-- 
FIFA Says Midweek International Soccer Matches Are at Risk of Manipulation

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-08-10T00:54:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/fifa-says-national-soccer-team-games-this-week-are-at-risk-of-manipulation.html
Soccer exhibition games between
national teams this week are vulnerable to match-fixing, the
head of security for the sport’s governing body said.  Midweek games being played around the world carry a greater
threat of manipulation because the focus on them is lower than
for competitive fixtures, said  Chris Eaton , who joined Zurich-
based  FIFA  from Interpol.  “They’re more vulnerable than most, absolutely,” Eaton
said in a telephone interview. “We’ll always make judgments
about those that are most vulnerable. There are some we’re
looking at.”  Police have arrested people in Asia,  Europe  and  Africa  for
rigging matches. The start of the Turkish league has been
delayed amid a police inquiry there and FIFA has uncovered
several international games that may have been compromised,
including Nigeria’s 4-1 exhibition win over Argentina on June 1.
The illegal gambling market is estimated to be worth $90
billion, according to the World Lottery Association, a lobby
group for state-backed lotteries.  FIFA gave lifetime bans yesterday to seven match officials
following an inquiry. The corruption probe concerned exhibition
games held Feb. 9 in Antalya,  Turkey . Estonia and Bulgaria tied
2-2 and Latvia beat Bolivia 2-1, with all seven goals coming
from penalty kicks.  The soccer body’s disciplinary panel imposed the sanction
against four Hungarians and three Bosnians following a hearing
at its headquarters in Zurich.  Global Network  Forty-six exhibition matches are  scheduled  to be played
today, according to FIFA, including games between Germany and
 Brazil , the U.S. and Mexico and world champion Spain against
Italy. North Korea travels to Kuwait and Belarus meets Bulgaria.  “Whilst there might not be any great outcome in terms of
qualification or standing, the fact is there are people who are
victims if the match is fixed,” Eaton said. “Not only is the
sport the victim but the gambling public are also victims.”  Last month a Singaporean, Wilson Raj Perumal, was sentenced
to two years in prison for bribing players in  Finland . The
investigation into him uncovered a global network that led to
the identification of more fixed matches.  “That’s helped us to identify a number of matches in
retrospect,” Eaton said. “We’re developing a forewarning
system and an approach to matches that are suspect that’ll be
quite effective.”  Suspicious Pattern  The Australian has been traveling the world to educate
players, coaches and officials, and was most recently at FIFA’s
 Under-20  and Under-17 World Cups in Colombia and  Mexico . Many
match-fixing syndicates focus on grooming junior team
participants and referees before they enter senior competitions.  “Criminals first attract young players, officials and
administrators either with generosity, promises of cash or
promises of development, and then they compromise them,” Eaton
said. “It’s a long-term process. Ultimately they intimidate
them.”  Some groups use recently retired senior players to lure
young athletes, he added. Former Italy striker Giuseppe Signori
was banned yesterday from any soccer-related activity for
alleged match-fixing.  FIFA set up an early warning system to detect suspicious
betting patterns and has pledged 20 million euros ($28.7
million) to Interpol over 10 years to help tackle the problem.
The donation includes the creation of an anti-corruption center
in  Singapore .  The surge in detection has led to plans for security
centers to open next year in  Asia , South and Central America and
the  Middle East  covering Africa as well, Eaton said.  “The reality for us is that we’ve had alarm signs that we
need to respond to,” he said. “We have been responding to it
for the last six months. It’s been particularly acute over the
last three months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in the London newsroom at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 