-- 
Strong Treasuries Demand in Post-Downgrade Sale

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-08-09T17:44:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/first-three-year-note-sale-since-downgrade-produces-lowest-yield-on-record.html
Treasuries pared losses as the sale
of $32 billion in three-year securities drew the lowest yield
since records began in May 1981 in the first note sale after
 Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S. credit rating.  The notes drew a yield of 0.50 percent, compared with the
average forecast of 0.523 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of
seven of the  Federal Reserve ’s primary dealers. The bid-to-cover
ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the
amount of securities offered, was 3.29, compared with an average
of 3.15 for the past 10 sales. The Federal Reserve is scheduled
to issue a policy statement at 2:15 p.m. New York time.  “The market was a little cheaper going into the auction
and it, combined with the global growth concerns, made for a
large bid from the broader investment community, who bid very
hard,” said  Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate strategist in New
York at BNP Paribas SA, which as one of the 20 primary dealers
is obliged to participate in U.S. debt offerings.  The yield on the current three-year note gained four basis
points to 0.46 percent at 1:43 p.m. in  New York , after earlier
increasing seven basis points, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The yield on the 10-year note rose four basis
point to 2.35 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 47.9 percent of the notes, compared
with an average of 33.9 percent for the past 10 sales.  Direct Bidders  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 11.1 percent of
the notes at the sale, compared with an average of 13.2 percent
for the past 10 auctions.  The offering is the first of three note and bond auctions
this week totaling $72 billion. The Treasury is scheduled to
sell $24 billion in 10-year debt tomorrow and $16 billion of 30
year bonds on Aug. 11.  Treasuries surged yesterday as tumbling stock markets
sparked demand for the safety of government debt. S&P cut the
U.S. government’s AAA credit rating at the end of last week,
while Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings have affirmed
the U.S. at the top rating.  Volatility in the Treasury market has picked up. Merrill
Lynch & Co.’s MOVE index, which measure price swings in
Treasuries based on prices of over-the-counter options maturing
in two to 30 years, rose yesterday to 117.8, the highest since
Dec. 17, up from a 2011 low of 71.5 in May.  Yield Curve  The 10-year note yields dropped earlier today to 2.27
percent, the lowest level since January 2009. The extra yield
investors get for holding 30-year bonds instead of two-year
notes was 3.42 percentage points, almost the narrowest on a
closing basis since October 2010.  “Yield is tough to come by,” said Gary Shilling,
president of Springfield, New Jersey-based A. Gary Shilling &
Co., in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “Yields are low because the U.S. is a safe haven.”
Shilling predicted the U.S. recession that began in December
2007.  The Fed may consider today the use of untested policy tools
after two rounds of bond buying known as quantitative easing
totaling $2.3 trillion.  “The question is whether the market rout will continue or
will there be a hint that the Fed is willing to help out,” said
 David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in
 London . “If we get some sense in the market that the Fed is
going to step in, then the short-term reaction would be for a
more risk-on stance, and that should help to limit the flight to
safety.”  Fed Outlook  By a 52 percent to 48 percent margin, respondents in a
Bloomberg News survey said the Fed would ease policy this year
through monetary tools or statement language. If the central
bank acts, 59 percent said it would communicate that the federal
funds rate, balance sheet or both will remain especially
stimulative for a longer period or more specific amount of time.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will probably leave the
fed funds target rate at zero to 0.25 percent where is has been
since December 2008, according to the median forecast of 103
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “We expect the FOMC will acknowledge the recent
deterioration of the economic data and some risks resulting from
the recent downgrade of U.S. Treasury debt by S&P,” wrote
analysts led by  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist at
Jefferies Group Inc. in New York. “There is a possibility that
the committee will provide guidance on balance sheet management
going forward with the goal of lowering long-term rates.”  Jefferies doesn’t expect the Fed to announce a third round
of quantitative easing, the analysts wrote. The central bank
ended $600 billion of bond-buying in June.  Treasuries have returned 6.2 percent this year, according
to indexes complied by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  Japan ’s government bonds have
gained 1.3 percent, while German bunds have returned 4.8
percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  