-- 
Florida’s Scott May Press for U.S. Health Aid

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-08-09T16:45:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/florida-s-scott-may-press-for-u-s-health-aid.html
Florida Republican Governor  Rick Scott , who spent at least $5 million of his own money opposing
the U.S. health-care overhaul, may press state lawmakers to
reconsider some of at least $17 million of federal aid they
didn’t budget because it’s tied to the revamp.  Scott, 58, is deciding whether to ask the Republican-
controlled Legislature to allow  $2.1 million  of U.S. grants to
be spent on home care for the elderly and needy that it voted
down in June, said Lane Wright, a spokesman in Tallahassee. He
also may seek its approval to disburse $3.1 million of U.S. aid
for child-abuse prevention lawmakers  failed  to allocate, Wright
said.  Scott, a former hospital-chain executive, started
Conservatives for Patients’ Rights in 2009 to object to
President  Barack Obama ’s  Affordable Care Act , which became law
last year. As governor since January, he has had no objection to
using U.S. funds for programs in place before they became part
of the Affordable Care Act, said Wright.  He remains opposed to “implementing any part of Obama-care
that didn’t already exist,” he said. The governor turned down
three grants worth a combined $4.1 million to set up a health-
insurance exchange, regulate increases in rates and help
residents appeal denial of care, said Wright.  Other states also rejected funds. Republican Governor Mary Fallin of  Oklahoma  said  in April  her state would return $54
million to help set up an insurance exchange. Alaska Republican
Sean Parnell said in  February  his state wouldn’t apply for $1
million.  Spending Blocked  Florida  is the lead plaintiff in a lawsuit by 26 states
seeking to declare parts of the Affordable Care Act
unconstitutional. The state Legislature has done more than turn
down money for new programs under the federal overhaul: It’s
blocked spending of U.S. funds for federally funded programs not
created by the act.  “The Florida House has a well-established policy of not
implementing any portion of federal health-care reform” because
of “questionable constitutionality,” said Katherine Betta, a
spokeswoman for Speaker Dean Cannon, a Republican from Winter
Park, near  Orlando .  Scott may ask lawmakers to allow the spending of $3.1
million of U.S. grants for child-abuse prevention that they
failed to release this year, Wright said. Without the anti-abuse
program, Florida may not meet all requirements needed to compete
for as much as $100 million of  Race to the Top  federal school
grants.  Deadline Extension  The governor requested that the U.S. Health and Human
Services Department extend the deadline for drawing down the
anti-abuse funds and is waiting to see whether final Race to the
Top rules require the program, Wright said.  “We haven’t made a decision about whether we’re going back
in January,” when the legislative session begins, to ask for
the money, said Wright.  The funds were never voted on by the Legislature, said
Betta, and the House doesn’t see an “immediate threat” to the
education grant. The chamber “will certainly evaluate and
consider any recommendations from the governor’s office,” she
said.  Other aid lawmakers didn’t appropriate includes $8.3
million for construction projects for the  Osceola County Health
Department , $2.1 million for children in  hospice care  under
Medicaid, $108,000 for cancer prevention and $1.3 million to
teach seniors about changes to the Medicare program, according
to state House data.  Five-Year Grant  The  $2.1 million  rejected in June for care for the elderly
and disabled in their houses instead of nursing homes was part
of a $35.7 million five-year U.S. grant, according to the budget
request.  Accepting the grant would have come with “significantly
high administrative costs” imposed by the Affordable Care Act,
Denise Grimsley, the Republican chairman of the Joint
Legislative Budget Commission, which voted down the
appropriation, said in a statement. The program would also “be
redundant” with other state long-term care efforts, she said.  Turning down readily available funds “does not make
sense,” Jack McRay, advocacy manager for the  Florida AARP ,
which represents the elderly, said in a telephone interview.  “It’s money to be used for the purpose of public health,
money which would create jobs,” he said. “Florida ought to be
sharing in that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 