-- 
Fluor Joins Softbank, Huntsman as Companies Buy Back Stock in Market Slump

-- B y   K e v i n   M i l l e r   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 
2011-08-09T21:14:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/fluor-softbank-among-companies-buying-stock.html
Fluor Corp. (FLR) ,  Softbank Corp. (9984)  and
 Huntsman Corp. (HUN)  are buying back shares to take advantage of a
worldwide market slump they say has made their stocks too cheap.  “We’re in the markets starting today buying back shares,”
D. Michael Steuert, chief financial officer of Irving, Texas-
based Fluor, said on a conference call today. “At these price
levels, we think the company is tremendously undervalued.”  The MSCI AC World Index has dropped 11 percent this month
as stockholders seek safer investments amid prospects of another
recession. U.S. stocks today jumped the most in more than two
years, rebounding from the worst drop since 2008, as the  Federal
Reserve  vowed to keep  interest rates  near zero through mid-2013
to safeguard the economic recovery.  “The buyback sends a positive symbol to the market, people
say ‘Gee, they must believe,’” said Robert S. Kaplan, a
professor of management practices at Harvard Business School and
former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. vice chairman. “But companies
don’t just buy back stock for symbolic reasons. Many companies
are well-capitalized and they have the dry powder to do this.”  Executives worldwide are adding or accelerating buybacks,
which may help to shore up prices. In addition to Fluor, the
largest publicly traded U.S. construction company, Tokyo-based
Softbank said it would spend as much as 20 billion yen ($259
million) to buy its own shares. Softbank is the exclusive
provider of Apple Inc.’s iPhone in Japan.  ‘Ridiculously Low’  Huntsman Chief Executive Officer Peter Huntsman, in an
interview, said he spent $1.1 million of his own money to buy
100,000 shares of the company yesterday because the stock price
is “ridiculously low.” The Salt Lake City-based chemicals
maker said Aug. 5 it would spend as much as $100 million on a
buyback.  Taiwan’s Financial Supervisory Commission today urged
companies to repurchase shares to prevent stock prices from
“falling irrationally.”  Silicon Integrated Systems Corp. (2363) , a
chipset maker based in Hsinchu, Taiwan, agreed to buy back as
many as 60 million shares, or 8.77 percent of its total
outstanding, as the shares hit a 52-week low today.  “We’ve saved our eggs for a rainy day and it does put us
in a position where we can be opportunistic,” John Schnatter,
chief executive officer of  Papa John’s International Inc. (PZZA) , said
in an interview. “We can buy back stock.”  The Louisville, Kentucky-based pizza-delivery chain bought
back $22 million in stock last quarter and is authorized to buy
another $57 million, Schnatter said.  Conserving Cash  Kaplan, the Harvard professor, said the focus over the past
few days at companies he advises has been on trying to get a
measure of how serious the situation is over the next several
weeks. Kaplan is also a member of the investment advisory
committee at Mountain View, California-based Google Inc.  “Everybody is looking at how much cash they have right
now,” said Thomas Stallkamp, principal at Collaborative
Management LLC in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan. Stallkamp also is
a director at auto-supplier  BorgWarner Inc. (BWA)  and medical-device
company  Baxter International Inc. (BAX)   Other U.S. companies announcing new or accelerated buybacks
today were  Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR) ,  Westwood Holdings Group
Inc. (WHG) ,  Starwood Property Trust Inc. (STWD)  and  Jarden Corp. (JAH)   Sunoco Inc. (SUN) ,
the Philadelphia-based petroleum refiner, was among the biggest
programs, with a $500 million authorization.  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) ’s board on Aug. 5 approved a plan to
repurchase as much as $500 million worth of stock. The Dallas-
based airline’s shares have tumbled 35 percent this year.  Adding Value  A repurchase plan valued at as much $200 million announced
by  Medicis Pharmaceutical Corp. (MRX)  yesterday shows confidence even
in a stumbling economy, President Mark Prygocki said in an
interview. It’s one way the Scottsdale, Arizona-based maker of
wrinkle and acne treatments can benefit from its cash, he said.  “By repurchasing our shares we can provide more value to
our shareholders than leaving it in the bank,” Prygocki said.
“It is an appealing decision in light of recent market trends.”  Some executives are forgoing buybacks until it’s clearer
where the global economy is headed.  “We’re going to feel a lot of pressure in revenue and
we’ll have to control cash and costs carefully,” Juan Jose Nieto, chairman of Barcelona-based  Service Point Solutions SA (SPS) ,
Spain’s only publicly traded document-management company, said
in an interview today. “We don’t consider a share buyback, as
it’s very difficult to add any value in this kind of context.”  Amerigroup Corp. (AGP) ’s decision yesterday to increase its
repurchase authorization wasn’t based on declining equity
values, said Julie Trudell, senior vice president for investor
relations at the managed-care provider based in Virginia Beach,
Virginia. Still, the program will benefit from the market’s
recent tumble.  “When we made the decision to increase the authorization,
the market wasn’t in this position,” Trudell said. “Now it’s
more in our favor.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Miller in Chicago at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Green in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 Jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net  