-- 
Forint, Zloty at Franc Records Threaten Home Loans, Economy

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-08-09T16:26:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/forint-zloty-at-new-franc-records-threaten-home-loans-economy.html
Hungary ’s forint and the Polish zloty
weakened to record lows against the Swiss franc, raising the
risks of default on foreign-currency loans that could crimp bank
profits and economic growth.  The forint retreated as much as 3.1 percent to 263.945 per
franc, the lowest since Bloomberg started tracking the data in
1993, and traded down 2 percent by 5:05 p.m. in Budapest. The
zloty was 2.4 percent weaker versus the Swiss currency at 3.8895
after earlier slumping to a record low of 3.9242. Versus the
euro, the forint was little changed and the zloty slid 0.4
percent.  The U.S. Federal Reserve will meet today after the loss of
the country’s top credit rating rattled markets and stoked
speculation that a slowdown in the world’s largest economy will
curb global growth. European shares rose after earlier tumbling
to a two-year low. The franc advanced to record highs against
the dollar and euro.  “Global growth has shown clear signs of deceleration,
weakening a key source of growth support for many central and
eastern European economies,” UniCredit SpA analysts led by
Gillian Edgeworth in London wrote in a report today. “The franc
rally weakens consumers’ ability to repay foreign-currency loans
in a number of countries in the region, in particular Hungary
but also others such as Poland and  Croatia .”  The weaker forint and zloty hurt owners of homes bought
with foreign-currency loans as they pay more in local terms.
Almost two-thirds of Hungarian home mortgages are denominated in
foreign currencies, most of them in francs, according to central
bank data as of June 30. Municipal governments in Hungary last
week requested a delay in payments on foreign-currency debt.  Bank Risks  Hungary’s OTP Bank Nyrt. and  Austria ’s  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) 
are among central European banks most at risk from the forint’s
and zloty’s weakness versus the Swiss currency, according to ING
Groep NV. A doubling of non-performing loans denominated in the
franc could cut OTP’s profit by about 20 percent and Erste’s by
about 24 percent, the Dutch bank wrote in a report today.  OTP fell 1.5 percent to 4,475 forint, its lowest close in
two years. OTP and oil refiner Mol Nyrt. led a 2.5 percent drop
for Hungary’s BUX stock gauge. Erste slid for a seventh day in
Vienna, its longest stretch of drops in almost three years.  “We do not believe that foreign-currency risks alone
should justify the magnitude of the stock price correction,”
analysts led by Andrzej Nowaczek in  London  said in the ING note.
“Taking into account the relative price performance in recent
weeks and the current valuation, we remain buyers of OTP, PKO
Bank Polski SA and Raiffeisen Bank International AG.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  