-- 
German Air-Traffic Control Mediation Fails to Prevent Frankfurt Disruption

-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-08-09T10:53:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/german-air-traffic-control-mediation-fails-to-prevent-disruption.html
Flights at  Germany ’s airports were
disrupted this morning after mediation that staved off a strike
over pay by 3,400 air-traffic controllers came too late for some
carriers to operate their usual timetable.  As many as 40 flights from Frankfurt airport,  Europe ’s
third-busiest, were rescheduled as the six-hour strike slated to
begin at 6 a.m. was called off with only hours to spare, with
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  retiming some inbound long-haul trips.  “Operations are nearly normal, but the aviation system is
finely meshed,” said Thomas Uber, a spokesman for Fraport AG,
Frankfurt airport’s owner. “We could well have cancellations.”  German air-navigation agency Deutsche Flugsicherung GmbH
said at 12:30 a.m. local time last night that it had agreed to
mediation with the Gewerkschaft der Flugsicherung  union . Minutes
earlier the Hesse state labor court had upheld a ruling allowing
the strike by GdF members who run five air-navigation centers
plus control towers at 16 international and nine local airports.  Air France scrapped flights to Dusseldorf, Hamburg and
Munich, rebooking passengers onto later departures, spokeswoman
Marina Tymen said today by phone. Customers were informed of the
precautionary changes yesterday and the airline opted not to
change the arrangements when the strike was halted, she said.  Amended Plans  British Airways said its flights to Germany operated as
scheduled this morning, though it’s tough to gauge how many
people stayed away or amended their travel plans because of the
strike threat, spokesman Euan Fordyce said today by telephone.  Discount carriers including Air Berlin Ltd.,  Ryanair
Holdings Plc (RYA)  and  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  said flights were unaffected.  Had the action gone ahead as many as 2,500 flights at
dozens of carriers would have been disrupted, DFS Managing
Director Jens Bergmann said yesterday.  Before coming to a decision on the appeal ruling, Judge
Rainer Bram had urged DFS to seek arbitration in return for the
GdF canceling the strike. The union had won the earlier decision
after the court expressed uncertainty over whether its claims
contradicted German law and after dropping some demands.  “We wanted to be able to call a mediator in on our own
terms and not those imposed by the court,” Bergmann said
following Bram’s ruling. “It means we can discuss all the issues
on the table and not simply those specified by the judge.”  The mediation process is likely to span at least four
weeks, DFS spokesman Axel Raab said today by telephone.  Pay Wrangle  The GdF, which won 96 percent support for a strike in a
poll result announced Aug. 1, has been seeking a pay increase of
6.5 percent, according to DFS, which says it offered a 5.2
percent raise staggered through October 2013.  The union says the proposal was rejected on the basis that
it was worth about 2 percent in the first year and 2.1 percent
in the second, and therefore equated to less than the year-to-
year inflation rate, which stood at 2.6 percent last month.  Bergmann said earlier yesterday that DFS had offered to
hold further talks with the GdF, which were refused, but hadn’t
proposed a revised contract.  The union was forced to cancel a six-hour walkout slated
for Aug. 4 when the Frankfurt Labor Court granted DFS an
injunction the evening before on the grounds that the walkout
concerned an issue covered by an existing collective agreement.  While the GdF dropped that issue, DFS had asked yesterday’s
hearing to block a strike on the basis that a demand for senior
managers to have at 15 years’ experience was discriminatory.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Reiter in Frankfurt at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  