-- 
Germany Riskier Than U.K. for First Time Since January 2008

-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-08-09T12:29:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/germany-riskier-than-u-k-swaps-show.html
Germany  is riskier than the U.K. for
the first time since January 2008, according to prices for
credit-default swaps, as the euro-region crisis spreads.  The cost of insuring against a German default rose to 83
basis points in  London , which was as much as 2 basis points more
than contracts on British debt, according to CMA. The last time
German bunds were more expensive to insure than U.K. gilts -- on
Jan. 21 2008 -- the difference was less than half a basis point.  “It’s clear that infection is spreading right up the euro
credit ladder,” said  Bill Blain , a strategist in London at
broker Newedge Group. “Suddenly, like a wildfire, it’s leapt
into Germany.”  The euro area’s debt crisis is contaminating countries that
investors traditionally considered to be havens, even after the
 European Central Bank  resumed buying bonds of peripheral
nations. German bunds fell as speculation mounted the region’s
largest economy will be forced to pick up the tab for its
neighbors, pushing the 10-year yield up from near the lowest
since October.  The yield on German 10-year  government bonds  rose five
basis points to 2.35 percent after falling to an eight-month low
of 2.23 percent on Aug. 5. Bond yields move inversely to prices.  German Opposition  Credit-default swaps on German debt rose 3.5 basis points
to 83, the highest since March 2009, according to CMA. Contracts
on U.K. gilts increased 3 basis points to 83 as of 1 p.m. in
London, closing the earlier gap.  The ECB started purchasing Italian and Spanish government
debt yesterday, overcoming opposition from Germany’s Bundesbank
in a move that  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  economists
estimate could cost as much as 850 billion euros ($1.2
trillion).  “People are realizing ultimately it’s Germany that’s
underwriting all the risk,” said Marchel Alexandrovich, an
economist at Jefferies International Ltd. in London. “It’s the
Bundesbank that’s going to be doing 30 percent of all the buying
as part of” the ECB’s Securities Market Program.  Almost two years into the debt crisis that spread from
 Greece , German policy makers are reluctant to anger voters by
aiding euro countries they see as having lived beyond their
means. German parliamentary leaders rejected a bid last week to
increase the size of the European Financial Stability Facility,
the bailout fund set up in 2010 to contain the debt crisis.  Debt Burden  “There is an increasing transfer of risk from the
peripheral to the core countries in the euro-zone,” said Saul Doctor, a London-based credit derivatives strategist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. “People are seeing rising risk within the euro area
and some countries such as Germany are having to shoulder the
burden of the debt crisis.”  Benchmark 10-year gilt yields have slumped 86 basis points
this year to 2.65 percent amid bets the U.K. will be insulated
from the fiscal crises roiling the U.S. and the euro region.
Britain, which like Germany is rated AAA, plans to eliminate its
structural  budget deficit  by 2015 in the biggest fiscal squeeze
since World War II.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
country or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. An
increase signals deteriorating  credit quality .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in London at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  