-- 
German June Exports Drop, Adding to Signs of Economic Slowdown

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-08-09T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/german-june-exports-drop-adding-to-signs-of-economic-slowdown.html
German exports declined in June,
adding to signs  Europe ’s economy is losing momentum as the
global recovery falters.  Exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal changes, fell
1.2 percent from May, when they increased 4.4 percent, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists
forecast a drop of 1 percent, according to the median of 13
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Imports rose 0.3 percent
from the previous month, when they advanced 3.8 percent.  German growth is slowing as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
prompts governments from Spain to Ireland to cut spending,
sapping demand for German goods. Industrial production
unexpectedly decreased in June and business and investor
confidence fell last month. At the same time, unemployment at a
two-decade low is boosting household spending.  “A decline in exports doesn’t mean the economy is
crashing,” said  Christian Schulz , an economist at Joh.
Berenberg Gossler & Co. in  London . “The German economy is
rebalancing, meaning domestic demand is playing a bigger role.”  The economy will grow 3.1 percent this year and 1.8 percent
in 2012 after expanding a record 3.6 percent in 2010, the
Frankfurt-based Bundesbank predicts.  From a year earlier, exports jumped 3.1 percent, today’s
report showed. The  trade balance  narrowed to 12.7 billion euros
($18.1 billion) from 14.8 billion euros in May. The surplus in
the current account, a measure of all trade including services,
was 11.9 billion euros, up from a 6.7 billion euros.  Surging Carmaker Profit  Porsche AG, the German sports carmaker, said on Aug. 1 that
first-half operating profit surged 59 percent, with sales
growing the fastest in  China . Rival  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) 
the following day reported a 66 percent gain in second-quarter
profit, beating analyst estimates.  The threat of a global recession may hurt foreign sales.  Some $5.4 trillion has been wiped off equity markets since
July 26 after Europe’s debt crisis spilled into Italy and Spain
and the U.S. saw its  credit rating  cut for the first time in
response to a debt-ceiling impasse that pushed the world’s
largest economy to the edge of default. The Group of Seven
nations on Aug. 7 sought to head off a collapse in investor
confidence, pledging to inject liquidity and act against
disorderly currency moves as needed.  Siemens AG (SIE) , BASF AG and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , three of Germany’s
biggest companies, reported earnings last month that missed
analyst estimates. They became more cautious about the outlook
amid rising commodity costs and cooling export markets.  Exports to the 27-member European Union rose 4.3 percent to
54 billion euros in June from a year earlier, while sales to the
euro region gained 4.7 percent to 36.9 billion euros in that
period, today’s report showed. Sales to countries outside the EU
increased 1.3 percent to 34.3 billion euros from a year earlier,
the statistics office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  