-- 
Ghana May Target China as New Market for Shea Nuts, Development Group Says

-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 
2011-08-09T12:21:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/ghana-may-target-china-as-a-new-market-for-shea-nut-exports-group-says.html
Ghana , the world second-largest cocoa
producer, may target  China  as a new market for exports of shea
nuts as the West African nation seeks to boost the industry,
according to the Integrated Social Development Centre.  Ghana ’s annual exports of about 60,000 metric tons of the
nuts that are used in foods and cosmetics could increase to
130,000 tons with access to Chinese buyers, said the Accra-based
non-government organization, which conducted research into the
shea-nut sector that was funded by U.K.-based advocacy group
Oxfam International.  The nuts are currently sold to  Europe , the U.S. and  Japan 
and earn about $30 million for Ghana each year, said Yakubu
Zakaria director of programs at  Isodec , as the group is known.  “China alone can absorb all our produce and we can make
about $70 million,” Zakaria said in an interview Aug. 5.  Shea trees, which produce the nuts, grow across the
Sahelien regions of  Africa , including in northern Ghana. Global
exports of shea nuts and butter were worth $120 million in 2010,
according to the U.S. Agency for International Development.  Ghana plans to establish a development board for shea that
will set prices farmers will be paid for their crop and conduct
research, Vice President John Mahama said April 6.  “When the board is in place, we will organize trade shows
and fairs in Beijing and also in Ghana, where we will invite
Chinese investors and businesses,” Zakaria said.  The Ghana Cocoa Board, which in currently in charge of the
shea industry, is already targeting China for exports of the
chocolate ingredient, said Osei Owusu, director of research at
the Accra-based agency.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 