-- 
Global Bonds Gain $132 Billion Amid Stock Rout

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-08-09T11:48:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/global-bonds-gain-132-billion-as-stock-rout-erases-7-8-trillion-in-value.html
The worldwide retreat from stocks and
commodities following  Standard & Poor’s  unprecedented cut of the
U.S. AAA credit rating has driven the value of the global  bond
market  to a record high.  The market value of Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global
Broad Market Index has increased $132.4 billion since the end of
July to $42.1 trillion, the most in data going back to 1996. The
index, containing more than 19,000 bonds sold by governments,
banks and the world’s biggest companies, returned 1.09 percent
this month as yesterday’s stock rout wiped out about $2.5
trillion in global equity values, extending total losses since
July 26 to $7.8 trillion.  While S&P said the credit worthiness of the U.S. was
diminished when it cut the rating to AA+ on Aug. 5, Treasuries
have surged. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note dropped
today to as low as 2.27 percent, the least since January 2009.
Investors are seeking the safest assets amid growing concern
that debt crises in the U.S. and  Europe  and a manufacturing
growth slowdown in the world’s two biggest economies may cause
the global recovery to falter.  “The S&P downgrade of the U.S. has shocked markets,
particularly the equity markets, where we’ve seen an absolute
bloodbath,” said Jarrod Kerr, director of  Australia  and New
Zealand rates strategy at Credit Suisse Group AG in  Singapore .
“The downgrade has had the opposite effect on Treasuries where
you’ve seen a hell of a rally.”  Sovereign Debt  Treasuries have gained 2 percent since July 31, Merrill
Lynch index data show, and 30-year yields dropped to as low as
3.59 percent, the least in 11 months. The  Federal Reserve  will
meet today to review monetary policy amid speculation it will
introduce new measures to boost financial confidence.  S&P lowered the U.S.’s long-term rating one level after
markets closed on Aug. 5 and kept the outlook at “negative,”
saying it was becoming less confident in policy makers’
abilities to tackle the  budget deficit .  Global sovereign bonds have returned 1.4 percent in August,
Merrill Lynch indexes show. The average yield on the Global
Sovereign Broad Market Plus index of 1236 securities has slumped
to 1.9 percent, the lowest since November.  All stocks in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated for
the first time since at least 1996 yesterday and the index fell
6.7 percent, its worst one-day decline since December 2008.  Falling Default Rate  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 commodities slumped
as much as 3.6 percent today to 598.46, the lowest level since
December. European stocks slid for a seventh day, pushing the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index down 21 percent from its February high
and into a so-called  bear market , on concern the U.S. downgrade
and the region’s credit crisis will lead to a global recession.  “The weakening market and economic conditions increase the
likelihood of meaningful political responses,” in the U.S. and
Europe, Deutsche Bank AG analysts Gus Medeiros and Colin Tan
wrote in a note to clients today. “An efficient response from
the political system should meaningfully reduce sovereign risks
and improve sentiment in the corporate world, which remains in
good shape.”  The global corporate default rate fell to 1.9 percent in
July, from 5.5 percent a year ago, and will end the year at 1.5
percent, according to a report by Moody’s Investors Service
yesterday. Companies had a record $1.91 trillion in cash and
other liquid assets at the end of the first quarter, up from
$1.39 trillion two years earlier, Fed data show.  Corporate Bonds  The market value of more than 4,700 investment-grade U.S.
dollar bonds sold by firms from Apache Corp. to Xerox Corp. has
increased by $32.6 billion this month to $3.8 trillion, the
Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Master index shows.  The yield premium investors demand to hold to own the debt
instead of  government securities  surged 16 basis points
yesterday to 190, the highest since last September, the data
show.  Relative yields on global  junk bonds  soared to the most in
more than a year, with spreads expanding 125 basis points to 692
this month. The market value of the Global High Yield Index has
dropped $51.2 billion this month to $1.27 trillion, the Merrill
Lynch indexes show.  “We are reducing holdings of credit as much as possible,”
said Tadashi Matsukawa, head of fixed income in  Tokyo  at
PineBridge Investments Japan Co. “No one wants to go out
without an umbrella knowing there will be a storm.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 