-- 
GM ‘Unsure’ of Demand as Share Rout Loses U.S. $6.7 Billion

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-08-09T20:18:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/gm-unsure-of-demand-amid-share-rout.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  is unsure whether
stock-market volatility will put its forecast for U.S. vehicle
sales out of reach this year, Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson said.  “There’s a lot of turmoil in the business and turmoil
means uncertainty, so we’re a little unsure of these numbers,”
Akerson said today of Detroit-based GM’s forecast for at least
13 million vehicle sales this year. “When the market does
recover, we should be able to really leverage it beyond what
you’ve seen so far since our IPO.”  The worst stock-market rout since 2008 has exacerbated a
decline in GM’s shares, wiping out $6.7 billion from the value
of the stock held by the  U.S. Treasury  Department. GM rose 97
cents, or 4 percent, to $25.54 at 4 p.m. today in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  GM’s forecast for 13 million new-vehicle sales in 2011
includes medium- and heavy-duty trucks. Executives met with Wall
Street analysts today in  Detroit .  “ Consumer confidence  is pretty fragile right now,”  Don Johnson , vice president of U.S. sales, said today in a
presentation. “With the recent volatility in the stock market,
we know that’s a concern we really have to watch closely.”  GM last week reported second-quarter profit of $2.52
billion, or $1.54 a share, topping the $1.20 a share average
estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales rose 19
percent to $39.4 billion, helped by stronger than expected truck
production and gains in pricing.  Product Planning  Dan Ammann, GM’s chief financial officer, said frequent
changes to the automaker’s product plan waste $1 billion a year.
Canceling or delaying product programs adds to engineering costs
because GM has to pay more to suppliers when orders change,
Ammann said during a presentation.  GM is working to stabilize its product development process,
Ammann said. Mary Barra, senior vice president of global product
development, said management believes it can improve product
engineering costs by 25 percent, without giving a timeframe.  Annual labor costs are down $11 billion since 2005, Diana Tremblay, GM’s global chief manufacturing officer, said in a
presentation. The reductions were made as GM closed plants,
reduced headcount and negotiated with the  United Auto Workers 
during contract talks and bankruptcy in 2009, she said.  Treasury’s Stake  The U.S. Treasury holds 500 million shares of GM, a stake
that was worth $19.5 billion on Jan. 7, when the stock peaked at
close of $38.98. At today’s closing price, Treasury’s holdings
were worth $12.8 billion.  The government planned to evaluate GM’s second-quarter
earnings and the market’s reaction before deciding whether to
sell more of its investment, a person familiar with the matter
said last month.  The department wants to sell its stake for at least the
November initial public offering price of $33 a share and would
prefer to sell in the high-$30 range, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the plans are private.  Adjusted earnings before interest and taxes in the second
half may be lower than the first six months, GM said on an Aug.
4 conference call. The automaker will build fewer trucks from
its three factories next year as it converts them for output of
next-generation pickups.  Higher prices, which added $1 billion to GM’s earnings
before interest and taxes during the second quarter, benefited
from limited supply of vehicles by Japanese competitors. Rivals
such as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co. have said they
will return to full capacity in the second half of the year.  The U.S. took a 61 percent ownership of GM as part of the
automaker’s government-led bailout and bankruptcy reorganization
two years ago. The Treasury sold $13.6 billion worth of stock in
the November IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  