-- 
Goldman Sachs Faces Growing List of Potential Mortgage Lawsuits

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   G r e g o r y   M o t t
-- 
2011-08-09T21:30:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/goldman-sachs-faces-a-growing-list-of-potential-mortgage-related-lawsuits.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, was sued over its sale of mortgage-
linked securities to now-failed  credit unions  hours after it
disclosed a list of other potential complaints.  The National Credit Union Administration filed a lawsuit in
California today and  said  it’s seeking more than $491 million of
damages from Goldman Sachs.  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  are among firms that have also
threatened to take legal action against the bank over mortgage-
related securities, Goldman Sachs said in a regulatory filing.  The bank was already facing active mortgage-linked lawsuits
from companies and investors that the firm estimated had
experienced cumulative losses of $485 million as of June 30. The
new potential claims aren’t included in that estimate or in the
firm’s $2 billion estimate of “reasonably possible” losses
from legal cases.  The list of entities, which also includes the Federal
Housing Finance Agency and insurance companies  Allstate Corp. (ALL) 
and John Hancock, “threatened to assert claims against the firm
in connection with various mortgage-related offerings,” New
York-based Goldman Sachs said in the quarterly filing. The
company has reached agreements with some of the entities to toll
the relevant statute of limitations.  Stephen Cohen, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in New York,
declined to comment. The stock rose $5.07, or 4.3 percent, to
$122.73 in New York Stock Exchange Composite trading after
falling as low as $111.60 earlier in the session. Goldman Sachs
is down 27 percent so far this year.  Lawsuit Targeting JPMorgan  The NCUA’s suit against Goldman Sachs, which relates to the
collapse of U.S. Central and Western Corporate federal credit
unions, follows a complaint against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and two
against  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. (RBS)   “Those who caused the problems in the wholesale credit
unions should pay for the losses now being paid by retail credit
unions,” NCUA Chairman Debbie Matz said in a statement.  AIG, the insurer rescued by U.S. bailouts during the 2008
financial crisis, yesterday sued  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  In that
case, AIG claimed that Bank of America caused more than $10
billion in losses at AIG, which specialized in investments and
insurance tied to mortgage bonds. Bank of America rejected the
assertions of New York-based AIG.  Possible Losses  Mark Herr, a spokesman for AIG, declined to comment on the
company’s potential suit against Goldman Sachs, as did Maryellen Thielen, a spokeswoman for Allstate. Laurie Lupton, a
spokeswoman for Toronto-based  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , which
owns John Hancock, had no immediate comment.  Spokespeople for the FHFA and Freddie Mac also declined to
comment, while Amy Bonitatibus, a spokeswoman for Fannie Mae,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Goldman Sachs reduced its estimate of “reasonably
possible” losses from lawsuits to $2 billion as of June 30 from
$2.7 billion on March 31, according to the quarterly filing with
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Banks started releasing estimates of possible losses after
the SEC told corporate finance chiefs in October that they
should disclose such costs “when there is at least a reasonable
possibility” that they may be incurred, even if the risk is too
low to require reserves.  The estimate, the third of its kind made by Goldman Sachs,
is the “upper end” of losses in matters where the risk is
“more than remote but less than likely,” the New York-based
firm said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 