-- 
Goldman Sachs Sued by U.S. Over Securities Sold to Failed Credit Unions

-- B y   G r e g o r y   M o t t   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-08-10T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/goldman-sachs-sued-by-u-s-agency-over-securities-sold-to-credit-unions.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  was accused
by the National Credit Union Administration in a lawsuit of
violating federal and state laws in the sale of mortgage-backed
securities to now-failed corporate  credit unions .  The NCUA said in a  statement  that it seeks damages of more
than $491 million from Goldman Sachs. The complaint, filed
yesterday in federal court in  Los Angeles , is the fourth case
aimed at recovering almost $2 billion from “sellers and
underwriters of questionable securities,” the NCUA said. The
agency said it expects to file five to 10 such cases.  “NCUA continues to carry out our responsibility to do
everything reasonable in our power to seek maximum recoveries,”
NCUA Chairman Debbie Matz said in the statement. “Those who
caused the problems in the wholesale credit unions should pay
for the losses now being paid by retail credit unions.”  Stephen Cohen , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The complaint mirrors the NCUA’s July 18 suit against  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  in the same court. It claims in the
complaint that Goldman Sachs misrepresented securities in
offering documents, causing the credit unions to believe the
risk of loss was minimal when it was substantial.  Goldman Sachs “systematically abandoned the stated
underwriting guidelines described in the offering documents”
for the mortgages in the pools of collateralized residential
mortgage-backed securities that it underwrote, the NCUA said in
its complaint.  ‘Delinquent or Default’  “Indeed, a material percentage of the borrowers whose
mortgages comprised the residential mortgage-backed securities
were all but certain to become delinquent or default shortly
after origination,” according to the complaint.  The NCUA charters and regulates federal credit unions and
insures their accounts, as well as those of many state-chartered
credit unions in the U.S., according to the agency’s website.
Yesterday’s complaint relates to the collapse of the U.S.
Central and Western Corporate federal credit unions, two of the
five liquidated under NCUA conservatorship, the regulator said
in its statement.  On June 20, the NCUA separately sued New York-based
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Edinburgh-based RBS over similar claims
in federal court in  Kansas City .  Goldman Sachs rose $5.07, or 4.3 percent, to $122.73 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday. The shares have
fallen 27 percent this year.  The case is National Credit Union Administration Board v.
Goldman Sachs & Co., 11-06521, U.S. District Court, Central
District of  California  (Los Angeles). The case against RBS in
California is National Credit Union Administration Board v. RBS
Securities, 11-5887, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Mott in Washington at 
 gmott1@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  