-- 
Goldman Sachs Says AIG, Fannie, Freddie Threatening to Sue Over Mortgages

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-08-09T11:28:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/goldman-sachs-says-aig-has-threatened-to-sue-over-mortgages.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac 
are among companies that have threatened to take legal action
against the firm over mortgage-related securities.  A list of entities, which also includes the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency  and insurance companies  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  and John
Hancock, “threatened to assert claims against the firm in
connection with various mortgage-related offerings,” New York-
based Goldman Sachs said in a quarterly filing today. Goldman
Sachs said it reached agreements with some of the entities to
toll the relevant statute of limitations.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, was
already facing active mortgage-related lawsuits from companies
and investors that the firm estimated had experienced cumulative
losses of $485 million as of June 30. The new potential lawsuits
aren’t included in that estimate or in the firm’s $2 billion
estimate of “reasonably possible” losses from lawsuits.  AIG, the insurer rescued by U.S. bailouts during the 2008
financial crisis, yesterday disclosed plans to sue Bank of
America Corp. In that case, AIG alleges that Bank of America
caused more than $10 billion in losses at AIG, which specialized
in investments and insurance tied to mortgage bonds. Bank of
America rejected the assertions of New York-based AIG.  Goldman Sachs reduced its estimate of “reasonably
possible” losses from lawsuits to $2 billion as of June 30 from
$2.7 billion on March 31, according to its quarterly filing
today with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Reserve Requirement  Banks started releasing estimates of possible losses after
the SEC told corporate finance chiefs in October that they
should disclose such costs “when there is at least a reasonable
possibility” that they may be incurred, even if the risk is too
low to require reserves.  The estimate, the third of its kind made by Goldman Sachs,
is the “upper end” of losses in matters where the risk is
“more than remote but less than likely,” the New York-based
firm said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 