-- 
Greggs Plunges Most in Two Years as Sales Growth Slows

-- B y   B e n   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-08-09T16:02:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/greggs-plunges-after-sales-growth-slowed.html
Greggs Plc (GRG) , the U.K.’s biggest bakery
chain, fell the most in more than two years in London trading
after saying sales growth slowed in the first half on “more
challenging” trading conditions.  Greggs dropped 27.5 pence, or 5.7 percent, to 454.5 pence
at the 4:30 p.m. close, the biggest fall since December 2008.
Sales in outlets open more than a year climbed 0.4 percent in
the 26 weeks ended July 2 from the same period a year earlier,
the  Newcastle Upon Tyne , England-based company said in a
statement today. Comparable sales growth was 0.8 percent in the
first 18 weeks.  Total revenue increased 4.2 percent to 335 million pounds
($547 million). Greggs has added outlets and extended sales of
items such as porridge, and bacon and sausage breakfast rolls as
the U.K. struggles to emerge from the toughest recession since
World War II.  “We had a better than expected April, then a worse than
expected May,” said Chief Executive Officer Ken McMeikan in a
telephone interview today. “If it had continued as it did in
May I’d be more concerned, but June and July have come back in
line with expectations.”  Greggs plans to open 80 stores this year even as it faces a
“tougher consumer spending environment,” he said.  Net income climbed 40 percent to 18.2 million pounds, as
the company reported a credit of 9.7 million pounds relating to
changes in its calculation of pension increases. Greggs
increased its dividend per share 5.5 percent to 5.8 pence.  Greggs was forced to close 19 of its stores yesterday
because of riots on the streets of  London . One shop in Peckham
was thought to be destroyed after a neighboring store was set on
fire, McMeikan said. A shop in Enfield was looted, and a
delivery driver was also assaulted. McMeikan said the affect of
the rioting on its business would be “very small”.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Edwards in London at 
 bedwards35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  