-- 
Michigan Leads U.S. in ‘Clean’ Car Employment With Ohio No. 2, Study Says

-- B y   J o s h u a   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-08-09T22:38:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/michigan-leads-u-s-in-clean-car-jobs-ohio-no-2-study-says.html
Michigan has 25 percent of U.S. jobs
related to “clean” car technology, the most of any state, a
report by the United Auto Workers union and two environmental
groups said.  The state where  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and
Chrysler Group LLC are based has 38,067 of the 151,168 U.S.
workers who make products that increase fuel efficiency or
reduce emissions, according to a study released by the UAW, the
Natural Resources Defense Council and the National Wildlife
Federation. Ohio is second with 13,753 such jobs.  Michigan also has 97 of the 504 U.S. facilities that create
“clean” vehicle technology, the study said. California follows
with 79. Seven states have none.  The report also advocated tightened rules for fuel economy
and emissions. Automakers agreed last month to double the fuel
economy of the vehicles they sell in the U.S. to a fleetwide
average of 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025. The administration of
President  Barack Obama  had considered a 56.2 mpg requirement, up
from a fleetwide average of 27 mpg today for cars and light
trucks.  Stronger fuel economy and emissions standards would “put
automotive engineers and production workers on the job” and
“provide the certainty necessary to foster automotive supplier
and automaker investment,” the report said.  U.S. Loans  The U.S. Energy Department’s $25 billion Advanced
Technology Vehicle Manufacturing program is considering a loan
application from Chrysler, which is majority owned by  Fiat SpA (F) ,
to make fuel-efficient vehicles. The program has provided such
loans for Ford, Nissan Motor Co. and  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , a  Palo
Alto , California-based electric-car maker.  Work on internal-combustion vehicles employs 37 percent of
the “clean” car jobs, the report said. Producers of components
such as wiring and start-stop systems, provide 28 percent of the
jobs. Makers of electric, hybrid and alternative-fuel engines
hired the rest, the report said.  GM is based in  Detroit  while Ford is based in Dearborn and
Chrysler in Auburn Hills. Fiat is based in Turin, Italy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Armstrong in Detroit at 
 jarmstrong39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  