-- 
Microsoft Sued by Former U.K. Manager Who Was Fired Over Kissing Incident

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-08-09T09:28:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/microsoft-is-sued-by-former-u-k-manager-fired-after-kissing-incident-.html
A former  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  manager
fired for allegedly kissing a colleague at a conference, and
then lying about the incident, sued the company in a London
court.  Simon Negus, a partner and general manager at Microsoft’s
U.K. unit until he was dismissed in September, filed the lawsuit
on Aug. 3. The complaint followed one made by Microsoft in April
against Negus, now  chief operating officer of Upstream Systems ,
seeking to reclaim holiday pay and part of his signing on bonus.  The dispute relates to an incident at Microsoft’s annual
conference in Atlanta in July 2009. Negus, a U.K. board member,
may have been seen kissing a female colleague in full view of
other attendees, Microsoft said in a court filing.  Negus denied the “kissing incident” had taken place and
when further information came out suggesting it had, he was
dismissed for dishonesty, the Redmond, Washington-based company
said in its claim.  Negus didn’t respond to calls and e-mails for comment.  Microsoft’s disciplinary panel found Negus had “behaved
dishonestly, and thereby acted in a manner calculated or likely
to destroy trust and confidence between him and Microsoft,”
according to court documents.  A spokeswoman at Edelman, a public relations firm employed
by Microsoft, declined to comment.  Microsoft is seeking the return of 75,000 pounds
($122,600), part of a signing bonus paid to Negus when he joined
from Dell Inc. in 2008 that required him to remain at Microsoft
for three years. The company is also claiming 2,563 pounds of
holiday pay.  Negus joined Upstream, a mobile-marketing technology
company, on July 20. In a press release issued at the time,
Upstream said Negus led Microsoft’s U.K. Enterprise and Partner
Group, and the U.K. unit had won Microsoft ‘Subsidiary of the
Year’ in 2010.  The cases are: Simon Negus v. Microsoft Limited,
HQ11X02875,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division; and
Microsoft Limited v. Mr. Simon Negus, HQ11X01216. High Court of
Justice, Queen’s Bench Divison  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  