-- 
India Extends Duvvuri Subbarao’s Term as Central Bank Governor Until 2013

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-08-09T12:30:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/india-extends-duvvuri-subbarao-s-term-as-central-bank-governor-until-2013.html
India ’s government extended the term
of central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao by two years, opting
for continuity as the nation grapples with inflation amid risks
to economic growth.  Subbarao’s tenure at the  Reserve Bank of India  will now
last until September 2013, according to a  statement  on the
website of the Prime Minister’s Office today. The 61-year-old
former finance secretary was appointed as the central bank chief
on Sept. 5, 2008, for a period of three years.  Subbarao has raised  interest rates  11 times since mid-March
2010 to tame price gains, reversing the monetary easing he
presided over in 2008 and 2009 during the global financial
crisis. More than $9 trillion has been wiped off stocks
worldwide since the beginning of May on concern  Europe ’s debt
crisis and a faltering U.S. recovery will imperil global growth.  “These are difficult times and it’s good to maintain
status quo in key policy-making positions,” said Shubhada Rao,
chief economist at Mumbai-based Yes Bank Ltd. “The RBI has a
tough task ahead, balancing inflation and the threat of another
global downturn.”  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, fell
0.8 percent at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. The rupee weakened
0.5 percent to 45.21, the lowest level in almost 11 weeks.
Yields on the 10-year bonds dropped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 8.23 percent.  ‘Difficult Juncture’  “I am happy that the government has reposed its confidence
in me at this difficult juncture in the world economy,”
Subbarao said, according to a statement posted on the central
bank’s website. “I look forward to working with a great team in
the Reserve Bank to meet the many challenges ahead.”  Subbarao, who was an economic adviser to Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  before he became the top bureaucrat in the
 finance ministry , is a physics graduate from the Indian
Institute of Technology. He joined the civil service and was
later sent to the  World Bank , where he was the lead economist
between 1999 and 2004 on public finance in  Africa  and  East Asia .  Subbarao has a masters in Economics from  Ohio State
University  and was a Humphrey Fellow at the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology . He holds a doctorate from India’s
Andhra University.  “The extension of tenure for Subbarao is good as it will
ensure stability,” India’s Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee
told reporters in  New Delhi  today. “Though there was time to
decide on an extension till September, we decided we should do
it quickly to ensure that there is no uncertainty.”  Inflation Fight  In the past 1 1/2 years, Subbarao directed monetary policy
at taming inflation, which accelerated to 9.44 percent in June.  At the central bank’s July 26 policy meeting, he increased
the repurchase rate by 50 basis points to 8 percent and raised
the inflation forecast by 1 percentage point to 7 percent.  Since then, the risk of another global downturn has
intensified.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S.’s AAA rating for the
first time on Aug. 5. Group of Seven nations yesterday vowed to
take “all necessary measures to support financial stability and
growth,” and said that its members will inject liquidity and
act against disorderly currency moves as needed.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
signaled he’s ready to start buying Italian and Spanish bonds in
his riskiest attempt yet to tame the sovereign debt crisis in
the region.  Adequate Liquidity  India’s central bank yesterday pledged to respond “quickly
and appropriately” to provide “adequate rupee and forex
liquidity” to curb “excess volatility” in interest and
exchange rates.  The  Reserve Bank  also said that while “downside risks” to
India’s expansion may have increased amid weakness in the global
economy, “they are likely to have limited impact.”  Mukherjee yesterday said a global slowdown may help drive
down international commodity prices, especially fuel, easing
inflationary pressures.  The Reserve Bank last month maintained its growth forecast
of 8 percent for the current fiscal year ending March 31. The
economy expanded 8.5 percent the previous year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  