-- 
Indonesia Leaves Interest Rate Unchanged to Aid Growth as Risks Increase

-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 
2011-08-09T08:01:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/indonesia-leaves-interest-rate-unchanged-to-aid-growth-as-risks-increase.html
Indonesia’s central bank left
 interest rates  unchanged for a sixth month, opting to protect
growth after a U.S. credit-rating cut and a global stock market
rout fueled concern the world economy will slow.  Bank Indonesia  maintained its  reference rate  at 6.75
percent, it said in Jakarta today. The decision was predicted by
all 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Policy makers
increased the key rate in February, the only move this year.  More than $9 trillion has been wiped off stocks worldwide
since the start of May as the European debt crisis and a
faltering U.S. recovery darken the outlook for the global
economy. Slowing inflation has given the central bank scope to
defend Indonesia’s expansion by leaving rates unchanged, which
bolsters consumer spending in the fourth-most populous nation.  “Inflation pressure remains manageable,” said Andry Asmoro,
an economist at PT Bank CIMB Niaga in Jakarta. “The fragility in
markets is temporary, and Indonesia’s outlook still looks
promising as growth will continue to accelerate in the third and
fourth quarters.”  Indonesia’s rupiah is up about 5 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in 2011, the most among major Southeast Asian currencies
after Singapore’s dollar, helping to pare import costs. The
currency fell 0.1 percent as of 2:59 p.m. local time today,
while the benchmark  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  of stocks slid 2
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stock Slide  The gauge has slumped 10 percent this month, compared with
a 13.3 percent tumble in the  MSCI AC Asia-Pacific (MXAP)  index over the
same period. The threat of the European crisis engulfing Italy
and Spain, and  Standard & Poor’s  decision on Aug. 5 to cut its
U.S. credit rating to AA+ from AAA, hurt investor sentiment
around the world. Speculation is growing the  Federal Reserve  may
do more to restore confidence.  The impact of the global financial turmoil on Indonesia’s
markets is “limited,” Bank Indonesia said today. The nation’s
economy may expand 6.6 percent this year, supported by exports,
domestic consumption and investment, it said.  Southeast Asia’s largest economy relies on consumption more
than some of its neighbors, making it less vulnerable to swings
in global demand for Asian exports.  Neighboring Malaysia and the Philippines have also left
borrowing costs unchanged in recent weeks, opting instead to ask
banks to set aside more cash as reserves. In contrast,  China ,
 India  and  Thailand  raised rates in July.  Consumption Buffer  The $707 Indonesian billion economy, the eighth-largest
among emerging markets, has expanded twice as fast as global
output since 2008, aided by a boom in  consumer spending . That’s
boosted earnings at companies from Jakarta-based PT Indofood
Sukses Makmur to PT Gudang Garam, a Kediri-based cigarette maker.  Global uncertainties won’t hurt expansion as the Indonesian
economy should “remain buffered given its domestic
orientation,” said Wellian Wiranto, a Singapore-based economist
at HSBC Holdings Plc.  Gross domestic product increased 6.49 percent in the three
months through June from a year earlier. Growth may accelerate
to 6.6 percent in the third quarter, Bank Indonesia said today.  Consumer prices rose 4.61 percent in July from a year
earlier, easing from a 5.54 percent pace in June. The central
bank predicts inflation will be 4 percent to 6 percent this year
and 3.5 percent to 5.5 percent in 2012.  President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s government has held
off from removing fuel subsidies this year and is importing rice
to cool domestic prices as the world’s most populous Muslim
nation observes the fasting month of Ramadan.  Indonesia is one step away from its first investment-grade
 credit rating  in more than a decade as Yudhoyono targets growth
of as much as 6.6 percent on average through the remainder of
his term ending in 2014. He plans to double spending on roads,
ports and airports to $140 billion by then after inadequate
infrastructure hampered growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  