-- 
InterDigital, Teva, Pozen, Apple-HTC: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-08-09T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/interdigital-teva-pozen-bodum-mavrix-intellectual-property.html
InterDigital Inc., owner of about
1,300 U.S. mobile-phone patents, filed infringement claims with
a U.S. trade panel last month to boost the price of its
intellectual property portfolio, Huawei Technologies Co. said.  The King of Prussia, Pennsylvania-based company “may be
using the commission’s investigation process purely for the
purpose of inflating its value as it prepares to sell its IP
assets,” Huawei said in an Aug. 5 letter to the U.S.
International Trade Commission in  Washington .  InterDigital said July 19 it was considering a sale of its
patent portfolio. The company filed a complaint with the ITC on
July 26 that accused Huawei,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  ZTE Corp. (763)  of
infringing seven patents related to so-called third-generation
wireless technology.  In its complaint, InterDigital asked the panel for an order
that would block U.S. imports of mobile phones containing the
disputed technology. All three companies sent letters to the
commission saying such an action wouldn’t be in the public’s
interest.  There is a “distinct possibility that InterDigital is
using the Commission’s proceeding simply to inflate the value of
its patent holdings with no likely benefit to the kind of
domestic industry intended to be protected by the statute,”
Sturgis Sobin of Covington & Burling in Washington wrote on
behalf of Shenzhen, China-based Huawei.  The companies asked that the judge assigned to the case
gather evidence on the public implications of a ruling in
InterDigital’s favor. The ITC has not yet picked a judge.  In a July 26 statement, InterDigital said it filed the
complaint after “good faith efforts” to reach a licensing
agreement failed. When asked about the new filings, Jack
Indekeu, a spokesman for InterDigital, said the company doesn’t
comment on litigation.  “It makes little sense for the ITC to protect entities
that use patent litigation to compel prelitigation settlements
and use the ITC to drive up settlement amounts,” ZTE, also
based in Shenzhen, wrote in its filing. ZTE and Huawei are
 China ’s two largest makers of phone equipment.  Nokia, based in Espoo, Finland, won an earlier ITC case
filed by InterDigital over other patents and is awaiting an
appeals court ruling in that dispute.  InterDigital has hired  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  and  Barclays
Capital  to help explore a potential sale to take advantage of
increased demand for wireless patents. InterDigital, whose stock
has risen more than 50 percent since the July 19 announcement,
has said its patents are deeper and stronger than those that
Nortel Networks Corp. auctioned for $4.5 billion in bidding
concluded June 30.  Samsung Electronics Co., Apple Inc. and Google Inc. have
been named as potential bidders for the InterDigital patents.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Wireless Devices with
3G Capabilities and Components Thereof, 2835, U.S. International
Trade Commission (Washington).  Teva Sued by GlaxoSmithKline, Pfizer Venture Over HIV Drug  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest
generic-drugmaker, was sued by a joint venture of
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  for infringing a U.S. patent
for the HIV drug Epzicom.  Teva has applied to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
for permission to sell generic  Epzicom  tablets in violation of a
2002 patent, lawyers for  ViiV Healthcare  said in an Aug. 5
complaint filed in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware .
Epzizcom is an anti-viral combination drug that can  cost
consumers as much as $1,000 per month .  Teva’s FDA submission “constitutes infringement” and
“ViiV will be irreparably harmed” by the low-cost version of
Epzicom if it’s sold before the patent expires in 2016,
according to court papers.  GlaxoSmithKline, based in Brentford,  England , and New York-
based Pfizer announced the ViiV joint venture to combat HIV in
2009. The lawsuit seeks a permanent injunction to block Israel-
based Teva’s U.S. sales of the drug and damages if the generic
medicine is sold. In dispute is patent 6,417,191, which was
issued in July 2002.  ViiV has facilities in Brentford and at Research Triangle
Park in  North Carolina , according to court papers.  Teva spokeswoman Denise Bradley declined to comment on the
suit.  ViiV is represented by  Joseph J. Farnan Jr.  and  Brian E.
Farnan  of  Farnan LLP  of Wilmington, Delaware.  The case is ViiV Healthcare UK Ltd. v. Teva Pharmaceuticals
USA Inc., U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Pozen’s Patents for Migraine Drug Valid, Enforceable, Infringed  Pozen Inc. (POZN) , a pharmaceutical company based in Chapel Hill,
North Carolina, said a federal court in Tyler,  Texas , found that
three of its patents are valid and enforceable.  The court also found that they were infringed by a number
of generics manufacturers. In dispute were three patents related
to Pozen’s  Treximet . This drug -- a combination of naproxen
sodium and sumatriptan -- is used to treat migraine headaches,
and is marketed exclusively in the U.S. by Pozen’s licensee
 GlaxoSMithKline Plc. (GSK)   U.S. District Judge Leonard Davis found that Par
Pharmaceuticals Inc., Alphapharm Pty Ltd. and Dr. Redy’s
Laboratories Inc. infringed patents 6,060,499, issued in May
2000; and 6,586,458, issued in July 2004. In an Aug. 5 order he
barred the three companies from selling, making or importing
genetic copies until the patents expire.  Par and Dr. Redy’s were also found to have infringed patent
7,332,183, issued in February 2009. They were ordered not to
make, sell or bring in generics until that patent expires.  Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. earlier reached a settlement
and agreed to be bound by the results of the litigation,
according to the Pozen statement.  Pozen filed the suit in April 2009. The company was
represented by  Daniel Lee Tobey ,  Erin A. Thomson ,  Stephen M.
Hash ,  Tracey B. Davies,  and  Willem G. Schuurman  of Houston-based
Vinson & Elkins LLP, and  Collin Michael Maloney  of  Ireland
Carroll & Kelley PC  of Tyler, Texas.  The case is Pozen Inc. v. Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc.,
6:09-cv-00182-LED, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Texas (Tyler).  Apple Complaint Against HTC Over Flyer to Get Trade Review  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s patent-infringement complaint against  HTC
Corp. (2498)  will be reviewed by a U.S. trade agency that has the power
to block imports of the Taiwanese company’s phones and new Flyer
tablet computers.  The International Trade Commission said it will investigate
Apple’s accusations that HTC infringed five patents related to
software architecture and user interfaces in portable electronic
devices, hardware for touch screens and movement sensors. Notice
of the decision was posted on the agency’s website yesterday.  A trade judge last month said HTC infringed two other Apple
patents, a decision subject to review by the six-member
commission. If the commission agrees, it could order an import
ban on certain HTC phones that run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system.  HTC, based in Taoyuan, Taiwan, has denied infringing any
Apple patents and pledged to challenge last month’s findings. It
has its own complaint pending against Cupertino, California-
based Apple, with a judge scheduled to release his determination
in September.  In March, HTC released the Flyer, its first tablet device
in the U.S. to rival Apple’s iPad and Samsung’s Galaxy Tab. The
Flyer has a 7-inch screen and uses Android. The latest Apple
complaint also targets HTC mobile phones including the Droid
Incredible, Wildfire, EVO 4G and Desire.  The new complaint  is In the Matter of Portable Electronic
Devices and Related Software, 337-797, U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington). Apple’s earlier case against HTC is In
the Matter of Certain Personal Data and Mobile Communications
Devices and Related Software, and the HTC case against Apple is
In the Matter of Portable Electronic Devices, 337-721, both ITC.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Bodum Coffee Plunger Design Wins Protected Status in  Australia   Bodum Group, the Switzerland-based kitchen-appliance maker,
won an Australian trademark-infringement suit that protects the
design of its Chambord Coffee Plunger, joining products
including the  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  bottle whose distinctive shape is
protected against copies.  An Australia appeals court ruled yesterday that DKSH
Australia Ltd., a unit of importer-exporter DKSH Group, broke
the Trade Practices Act by importing and selling a copy of the
Bodum coffee plunger, overturning a trial judge’s decision.  “The court’s decision is one of the first in Australia to
protect the shape and features of a product from imitation,”
said Katrina Rathie, an intellectual property partner at
Mallesons Stephen Jaques which represented Bodum.  The appeals court ruling may end a six-year legal fight
over DKSH’s importing of a Euroline coffee plunger, whose design
had been determined to have been a copy of Bodum’s Chambord
version. In addition to Coke bottles, courts in jurisdictions
outside Australia have also ruled that  Unilever NV (UNA) ’s Jif Lemon
and Numatic International Ltd.’s Henry vacuum cleaner are unique
designs protected against copies, Rathie said.  “We’re staggered by this,” Tony Michaels, the business
unit manager of consumer goods at DKSH in Melbourne, said today
in a phone interview. “We’re extremely surprised that it could
be overturned.”  DKSH had been selling the Euroline product for 25 years,
Michaels said.  The company hasn’t decided whether to appeal to the High
Court of Australia, the country’s top court, he said.  The trial case is Peter Bodum AS v. DKSH Australia Ltd.
NSD472/2008. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  Augusta National Claims Masters Marks Infringed by Computer Game  Augusta National Inc. , which operates the Georgia golf
course where the Masters Tournament is played every year, sued a
U.K. maker of golf-simulation software for trademark
infringement.  The suit against CustomPlay Games Ltd. was filed in federal
court in Augusta, Georgia, on Aug. 5. Co-defendants are  Red
Chain Games Ltd.  and Dean Baker.  According to court papers, Baker, of Warwick in the U.K.,
owns and operates both companies. Augusta National claims
Baker’s golf-simulation games display and infringe the golf
course’s trademarks, particularly a line drawing of a map of the
U.S., with a golf flag planted in the approximation of the
course, and the word “Masters” above the map.  The golf course management says it’s been in discussions
with Baker since June 2009, and despite promises to cease the
alleged infringement, the misuse of the company’s intellectual
property continues.  The CustomPlay website is presently not functioning, and
the Red Chain Games website has no contact information.  Augusta claims it is harmed by the game companies’ actions
and that the public is likely to believe falsely that some
affiliation exists with the two entities.  It asked the court to bar the use of its trademarks by the
defendants and for awards of attorney fees and litigation costs.  Augusta is represented by  Theresa Conduah  of Atlanta’s
Alston & Bird LLP and  Timothy E. Moses ,  Christopher A. Cosper 
and  Patrick J. Rice  of  Hull Barrett PC  of Augusta.  The case is Augusta National Inc. v. CustomPlay Games Ltd.,
1:11-cv-00119-JRH-WLB, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Georgia (Augusta).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Florida Celebrity-Photo Seller Can Sue in  California , Court Says  The operator of a celebrity-gossip website has focused its
promotional efforts sufficiently on the California market for it
to be subject to the jurisdiction of a federal court in that
state, a federal appeals court ruled.  Miami-based  Mavrix Photo Inc. ’s copyright-infringement suit
against an Ohio company can go ahead in federal court in Los
Angeles, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said in an Aug. 8
ruling. Earlier, a federal district judge there dismissed the
case finding Brand Technologies didn’t have enough of a presence
in California for the case to go forward.  The disputed photos were of pop singer Fergie and her
boyfriend Josh Duhamel on vacation in the Bahamas, according to
court papers. Duhamel and Fergie have since married. Mavrix
specializes in celebrity photos, according to the company
website.  The appeals court said Brand used the copyrighted photos
“as part of its exploitation of the California market for its
own commercial gain.” The site on which the photos were
displayed without authorization contained advertisements
targeting Californians, and Mavrix suffered harm in that state,
the court said.  The lower court case is Mavrix Photo Inc. v. Brand
Technologies Inc., 2:09-cv-02729-PSG-JC, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 