-- 
International Power Profit Increases 9% on North, Latin America

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-08-09T07:43:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/international-power-profit-increases-9-on-north-latin-america.html
International Power Plc (IPR) , the U.K.
utility controlled by  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA, said first-half profit rose 9
percent as earnings gained in North America and  Latin America .  Adjusted current operating income climbed to 1.47 billion
euros ($2.1 billion) from 1.35 billion euros a year earlier, the
London-based company said today in a statement. Sales increased
6 percent to 8.1 billion euros.  International Power agreed to merge assets with Paris-based
GDF Suez last year, a move that drove a “significant increase”
in revenue, the utility said. Organic growth and liquefied
natural gas sales also boosted earnings in North and South
America, even as economic stagnation weighed on demand, it said.  “No one is immune to the economic downturn, but we have a
good spread of business,” Chief Executive Officer Philip Cox
said today on a conference call. “We feel good about the
position in  North America .”  North American adjusted operating income jumped 70 percent
to 264 million euros in the period, Cox said. Profit in Latin
America climbed 32 percent to 663 million euros.  The company’s agreement with GDF last August involved
combining International Power divisions with GDF assets in
Turkey, the U.K. and outside  Europe , creating the world’s
second-biggest power producer. While the deal was completed in
February this year, today’s results assume the assets merged at
the beginning of the first half in 2010 and 2011.  International Power will add 2,000 megawatts of capacity
this year out of a 7,600-megawatt construction plan announced
last August. Phased commissioning of the company’s 3,450-
megawatt hydropower project on the Madeira River in  Brazil  will
start in the second half of 2012, Cox said, adding that river
deviation is scheduled for later this year.  The utility will pay an interim dividend of 4.4 euro cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  