-- 
Investa Sells 50% Stake in Sydney Ark Building to Pramerica

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-08-09T07:00:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/investa-sells-half-stake-in-sydney-ark-to-pramerica-correct-.html
Morgan Stanley-owned  Investa Property
Group  will sell a half stake in a North Sydney building to
 Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) ’s real estate investment unit in a
deal that values the property at about A$230 million.  The agreement with Pramerica Real Estate Investors for the
Ark building was completed last week and is expected to close by
Aug. 19, Michael Cook, Investa’s group executive for commercial
property investments, said.  “It’s been a tough time, with the economy and market,”
Cook said in a phone interview from Sydney today. “But this is
a good deal for Pramerica, and a very, very good deal for
Investa.”  Investa in April agreed to sell an ownership stake in its
595 Collins Street building in  Melbourne  to Parsippany, New
Jersey-based Pramerica. Investa will continue to manage the  Ark
building , at 40 Mount Street, the other half of which is owned
by the unlisted Investa Commercial Property Fund, Cook said.  The group today announced it secured Tenix, an
infrastructure and engineering services company, as a tenant,
making the building fully occupied. Investa is in talks with
potential tenants to fill up its retail space, Cook said.  Other tenants in the building, which Investa completed last
year, include Coca-Cola Amatil Ltd., Vodafone Hutchinson
Australia and Australian Worldwide Exploration Ltd.  Investa yesterday said it sold its retail funds management
business to Australian Unity Investments to enable it to focus
on the listed Investa Office Fund and the Commercial Property
Fund. The transaction gives Australian Unity control of the
Investa Diversified Office Fund, the Investa Fifth Commercial
Trust and the Investa Second Industrial Trust, which manage more
than A$430 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Malcolm Scott at 
 mscott23@bloomberg.net  