-- 
Lions Gate Said to Plan Early Pay TV Rentals of Lautner ‘Abduction’ Film

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-08-09T21:48:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/lions-gate-said-to-plan-early-pay-tv-rentals-of-lautner-abduction-film.html
Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  will
offer the Taylor Lautner film “Abduction” on pay TV three
months after its theatrical release for as little as $6.99,
according to people familiar with the plan, undercutting rivals’
prices.  The film, scheduled for release in theaters on Sept. 23,
will be offered through video-on-demand for about 10 days
beginning Dec. 23, said the people, who spoke anonymously
because the plan hasn’t been made public. The DVD release is set
for January, one of the people said.  “Abduction,” with the “Twilight” actor in the lead,
will be Vancouver-based Lions Gate’s first test of so-called
premium VOD. Studios are experimenting with the earlier release
of movies in an attempt to make up for declining DVD sales and
rentals. The 91-day window is seen as a compromise from the 60-
day plan, announced by four studios in the first quarter, that
sparked protests from theater operators and filmmakers,
including “Avatar” director  James Cameron .  Sales and rentals of home videos fell 3.6 percent to
$3.99 billion in the second quarter, the Los Angeles-based
Digital Entertainment Group said on Aug. 5. Packaged discs, a
category that includes DVDs and Blu-ray, declined 16 percent,
the industry trade group said. A figure for DVDs alone wasn’t
provided.  Wal-Mart, Best Buy  Lions Gate  will offer “Abduction” for $6.99 in standard
definition and $7.99 in high-definition formats, one of the
people said. The studio plans to make the movie available to all
VOD providers as well as the Web-based operations of retailers,
including Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Best Buy Co.  Lautner plays werewolf Jacob Black, one of three principal
characters in Summit Entertainment Corp.’s “Twilight” films, a
franchise that according to Boxofficemojo.com has generated
$1.8 billion in worldwide ticket sales. The films are based on
the young-adult novels of Stephenie Meyer.  Peter Wilkes, a Lions Gate spokesman, declined to comment
on the company’s VOD plans.  Lions Gate today reported fiscal first-quarter net income
of $12.2 million, or 9 cents a share, compared with a net loss
of $64.1 million, or 54 cents, a year earlier. Sales in the
period ended June 30 fell 20 percent to $261.3 million. The
company said it benefited from lower movie marketing costs and
higher television revenue.  March Agreement  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  Warner Bros .,  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s Sony
Pictures,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Pictures and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
Twentieth Century Fox agreed in March to release some films in
six to eight weeks after the theatrical release through  DirecTV (DTV) 
Inc.’s Home Premiere service, charging $29.99.  The first film, Sony’s “Just Go With It,” was available
on VOD April 21, about 10 weeks after its theatrical release.
Typically, films are released in home-video formats four months
after they open in theaters.  Opponents have said that a 60-day period threatened to
reduce movie ticket sales because some consumers might wait to
watch a film at home rather than go to the theater.  Lions Gate gained 26 cents to $6.62 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have risen
1.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Golum at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net  