-- 
Iron Maiden’s Giant Zombie Glares as Fans Cheer Heavy-Metal Gig

-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 
2011-08-09T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/iron-maiden-s-giant-zombie-glares-as-fans-cheer-heavy-metal-uproar-review.html
Iron Maiden’s twin electric guitars
scream out hyperactive solos, the bass and drums machine-gun
thunder, the operatic alley-cat vocals reach a crescendo.  The eyes of Eddie -- a giant statue of a zombie --
literally light up in demonic red as the chorus is bellowed out.  The East London heavy-metal band is coming to the end of
its world tour, playing its home territory at the  O2 Arena .  You might ask, why would anyone listen to  Iron Maiden  in
2011? It’s 30 years since Maiden’s heyday, when teenage boys
started wearing its T-shirts with pride.  In 2011, Maiden is bigger business than ever. “The Final
Frontier,” its 15th studio album, reached No. 1 in more than 20
countries. The group has sold more than 85 million records. It
has performed in  India ,  Indonesia  and  Peru  as well as the more
usual U.S.,  Europe  and  Australia  tour staples.  Iron Maiden led the New Wave of British heavy metal as rock
became harder, louder and faster. The influence of the blues was
stripped away. Maiden’s easy choruses provided a perfect refuge
for young males bewildered by the onslaught of hormones. The
lyrics delved into fantasy and horror. A dress code involving
shirts picturing the grotesque, grinning zombie sealed the deal.  Resolutely untechnological and lacking any of the usual
audiovisual trickery, the Maiden show relies on old-fashioned
musicianship. Vocalist  Bruce Dickinson  belts out favorites such
as “The Trooper” and “The Number of the Beast,” each with a
different painted backdrop.  Cooler Rivals  Maiden was never cool, unlike the raw  Motorhead  or the
brutal  Venom . It was never as aggressive as thrash metal bands,
Metallica and  Slayer . Current rival  Mastodon  has more complex
riffing,  Ghost  offers more bombastic choruses,  Slipknot  better
grisly slapstick and  Lamb of God  delivers more pummeling rage.  Still, much contemporary metal is for specialist fans. Iron
Maiden’s appeal is broader.  In the crowd, men with faded tattoos and blue denim play
imaginary guitars. There are girlfriends and even whole families
happily screaming along and wearing their Eddie shirts.  Walk around almost any city for a day and you are sure to
see at least one person wearing a Maiden shirt. Lady Gaga is a
fan. There’s more to Maiden than teenage boys.  Rating: **.  Information:  http://www.ironmaiden.com   ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 