-- 
Johnson & Johnson Reaches Agreement With U.S. on Risperdal Criminal Charge

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-08-10T16:35:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/j-j-reaches-tentative-agreement-with-u-s-on-risperdal-criminal-charge.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  said it reached an
agreement to settle a misdemeanor criminal charge related to
marketing of its antipsychotic drug Risperdal.  The U.S. has been investigating its Risperdal sales
practices since 2004, including allegations the company marketed
the drug for unapproved uses, J&J said in its quarterly filing
yesterday. The  Justice Department  and the U.S. attorney in
Philadelphia “are continuing to pursue both criminal and civil
actions,” the company said.  “Discussions have been ongoing in an effort to resolve
criminal penalties under the Food Drug and Cosmetic Act related
to the promotion of Risperdal,” J&J said. “Certain issues
remain open before a settlement can be finalized.”  Carol Goodrich, a spokeswoman for  New Brunswick , New
Jersey-based J&J, declined to comment on how much the company
set aside for the criminal case or when it might be resolved.  In May, company officials said in an  SEC filing  that they
had reserved funds to resolve the government’s claims over
Risperdal marketing. J&J didn’t say how much had been set aside.
The drugmaker said in yesterday’s filing it has added an
unspecified amount to that reserve to cover criminal penalties.  The company also said it is in negotiations to settle civil
investigations related to marketing of Risperdal and another
drug, Invega. J&J said it wasn’t sure an accord could be reached
on those claims and it is unable to estimate a range of damages.  Meritorious Defenses  J&J has “meritorious defenses to these claims, and it
remains unclear whether a settlement can be reached as discovery
is not complete, there are significant facts in dispute, the
damages sought in the claims are unsubstantiated and
indeterminate, there are numerous parties involved, and possible
outcomes are uncertain,” according to the filing.  Negotiations “may lead to a narrowing of the areas of
disagreement and the liability may then become reasonably
estimable,” according to the filing.  The ultimate resolution of the criminal and civil matters
“is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the
company’s financial position,” J&J said in the filing.  J&J and the Janssen unit have been sued by 11 states
seeking reimbursement for Medicaid or other public funds paid on
Risperdal prescriptions, the company said. The lawsuits allege
that J&J promoted the drug for dementia, mood and anxiety
disorders and other unapproved uses, or downplayed risks.  Louisiana  Jury  Last year, jurors in Louisiana ordered the drugmaker to pay
almost $258 million to state officials for making misleading
claims about the antipsychotic’s safety. J&J has appealed.  In June, a South Carolina judge ordered J&J officials to
pay $327 million in penalties for deceptively marketing the
medicine. J&J has asked the judge to throw that verdict out.  “The attorneys general of approximately 40 other states
have indicated a potential interest in pursuing similar
litigation against” the Janssen unit, J&J said. The statute of
limitations on such actions has been put on hold while these
states “pursue a coordinated civil investigation,” J&J said.  The agreement in principle on the criminal charge is
“pursuant to a single misdemeanor violation of the Food, Drug
and Cosmetic Act,” the company said.  In April, in a separate case, J&J agreed to pay $70 million
to resolve criminal and civil charges after admitting it bribed
doctors in  Europe  and paid kickbacks in  Iraq  to win contracts
and sell drugs and artificial joints. As part of a deferred
prosecution agreement, J&J subsidiary DePuy was charged with
conspiracy and violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  In May 2010, J&J’s Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical LLC pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor charge of selling a misbranded drug,
admitting it illegally marketed its Topamax epilepsy drug. J&J
paid $81 million to resolve criminal and civil cases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  