-- 
Japan’s Topix Drops Near Post-Quake Low After More S&P Downgrades for U.S.

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-08-09T07:17:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/japan-s-topix-index-slumps-as-fallout-from-s-p-s-u-s-ratings-cuts-spreads.html
Japan’s Topix declined for a sixth
day, erasing almost all of its gains since the March earthquake,
as ripple effects from Standard & Poor’s downgrade of the U.S.’s
credit rating roiled global markets.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s largest bank
by market capitalization, lost 2.4 percent. Toyota Motor Corp.
the world’s biggest carmaker, slipped 1.9 percent.  Inpex Corp. (1605) ,
Japan’s No. 1 oil explorer, sank 5.5 percent after crude prices
dropped.  “Overseas investors are basically cashing out of Japanese
stocks and that’s hitting the market,” said  Masahiko Sato , an
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. “If you look at the
fundamentals, stocks are clearly oversold, but there is so much
anxiety out there right now that investors aren’t making
rational decisions.”  The Topix lost 1.6 percent to 770.39 at the 3 p.m. close in
Tokyo, easing earlier declines of as much as 4.9 percent amid
speculation that shares were cheap. The index has fallen 9.6
percent in the past six trading days, dropping close to a bottom
of 766.73 set on March 15 after an earthquake and tsunami
devastated Japan’s northeast. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell
1.7 percent to 8,944.48 today.  Global equity markets have lost more than $6.6 trillion in
the past two weeks, with indices across Asia dropping more than
20 percent from recent highs. Stocks have plunged as the U.S
economy showed signs of slowing and a European debt crisis that
has spread from  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to  Italy  and  Spain 
threatens to spill over into the banking system.  Fed Meeting  Mitsubishi UFJ lost 2.4 percent to 363 yen and smaller
rival Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. decreased 2.2 percent
to 2,259 yen.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and his colleagues
may strengthen their commitment to record monetary stimulus as
soon as today at a regular meeting of the Federal Open Market
Committee in  Washington . The Fed in June ended a program of bond
purchases -- called quantitative easing or QE2 -- designed to
support economic growth and prop up asset prices.  “Markets have literally imploded over the last few
weeks,” said Todd Martin,  Asia  equity strategist at Societe
Generale SA in  Hong Kong  in a telephone interview. “The fact
that U.S. banks fell 11 percent yesterday to me means that the
U.S. is heading toward a potential crisis. Bernanke could be
preparing for a QE3 at the end of the month.”  Price-To-Book  Today’s selloff boosted trading volume on the Topix index
to its highest level since March 23. Some 2 trillion yen in
shares were traded on the first section of the Tokyo Stock
Exchange, about 40 percent more than this year’s average.  Still, Japanese stocks eased declines amid speculation that
shares are cheap. At the close, companies on the Topix traded at
an average 0.91 times estimated book value, the lowest since
March 2009. The number compares with 1.77 for the  Standard &
Poor’s  500 Index and 1.25 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. A
value below one means that investors can theoretically buy
companies for less than the value of their assets.  “Price-to-book ratios have come down enough now that it
makes sense for buyers to come back into the market,” said
Yutaka Yoshii, a strategist at Mito Securities Co. in Tokyo.
“There’s also speculation that the FOMC might take some
surprise measures to try to ease the panic in the markets.”  Freddie, Fannie  Futures on the S&P 500 Index gained 0.5 percent today,
reversing earlier declines of as much as 3.2 percent. The gauge
dropped 6.7 percent yesterday in  New York , the most since Dec.
2008, after Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services downgraded debt
issued by U.S.-backed mortgage lenders including Fannie Mae and
 Freddie Mac . The ratings agency on Aug. 5 stripped the federal
government of its AAA status.  Shares of Japanese companies ranging from exporters to
retailers plunged today, with about four stocks falling for each
that rose on the Topix. Toyota Motor dropped 1.9 percent to
2,937 yen. Sony Corp.,  Japan ’s biggest export of consumer
electronics, slipped 1.1 percent. Seven & I Holdings Co., a
retailer that gets 70 percent of its sales in Japan, dropped 3.5
percent to 1,992 yen.  “It’s pretty much become all about confidence now,” said
James Holt, Sydney-based director of BlackRock Investment
Management ( Australia ) Ltd., which oversees about $40 billion.
“You’re seeing how effectively confidence and deception is
overtaking reality, and that’s the big risk now for stock-market
investors.”  Oil companies declined the most among the 33 Topix industry
groups after crude prices dropped yesterday to the lowest level
since November. Inpex tumbled 5.5 percent to 497,000 yen. Japan
Petroleum Exploration Co., the nation’s No. 2 oil explorer,
retreated 3.3 percent to 3,360 yen.  “Investors are in a panic,” said Yoshihiro Ito, chief
strategist at Okasan Online Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “They’re
selling even though they know the fundamentals don’t warrant
it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 