-- 
Japan to Lift Evacuation Orders for Some Areas Around Fukushima

-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-08-09T12:35:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/japan-to-lift-evacuation-orders-for-some-areas-around-fukushima.html
Japan ’s government plans to lift
evacuation orders for some areas near the crippled Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear plant because it believes the risk of  radiation
exposure  has declined.  The government will cancel the “evacuation preparation
zone” outside a 20-kilometer (12.4-mile) radius from the plant
after local governments in the area complete reconstruction
plans,  Goshi Hosono , the minister in charge of responding to the
nuclear crisis, said today at a briefing.  “We are asking local governments to put together their
plans in about a month,” he said in Tokyo. Five municipalities
are included in the zone with a population of 58,500 people, the
government said. The area is covered by one of several
evacuation orders imposed after the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami knocked out power and cooling at the Fukushima plant,
causing the worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl in 1986.  There’s a low possibility of hydrogen explosions like those
that sent radiation spewing into the atmosphere in the immediate
aftermath of the crisis, the government said in a statement.
 Tokyo  Electric Power Co., the operator of the plant, has spent
five months trying to contain the situation after three reactors
melted down.  Local government will draw up plans to rebuild their towns
and villages including the decontamination of affected areas and
the restoration of water supplies and public services such as
hospitals and schools.  The government will let residents and business operators
from within 3 kilometers of the plant return to check on their
homes and offices as early as this month.  It will also put together a plan this month for
decontaminating other areas around the plant, which is about 220
kilometers north of Tokyo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  