-- 
Joe Paterno Cleared to Return to Penn State Football Practice After Injury

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-08-09T20:09:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/joe-paterno-cleared-to-return-to-penn-state-football-practice-after-injury.html
Penn State University  football coach
Joe Paterno was released from a hospital two days after
sustaining arm and hip injuries in a practice collision with one
of his players and is likely to be back on the field tomorrow.  Paterno, the 84-year-old coach whose 401 wins are the most
in major-college football history, didn’t need surgery and was
released this morning from Mount Nittany Medical Center, the
 State College ,  Pennsylvania , school said in a news release on
its  website . He is expected to be at tomorrow’s practice,
according to the statement.  “It’s time for everyone to turn the attention to the
team,” Paterno said in a statement. “We have a lot of hard
work ahead in order to be as good as we think we can be.”  Paterno initially walked away after being blindsided by one
of his players during a practice drill, and was later taken to
the hospital for precautionary testing.  He has had several medical setbacks in recent seasons,
including breaking his left leg in a sideline collision with one
of his players during a loss at  Wisconsin  in November 2006. That
injury required surgery.  Paterno is entering his 46th year as Penn State’s coach,
after last November becoming the first major-college coach to
reach 400 wins. He is 401-135-3, having led the Nittany Lions to
a 7-6 record last season that included a 37-24 loss to  Florida 
in the Outback Bowl.  Ranked 25th in the USA Today preseason poll of coaches,
Penn State begins its 125th campaign Sept. 3 at home against
Indiana State and hosts Alabama the following week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 