-- 
JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley Credit Default Swaps Plunge After Surge

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-08-09T21:43:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/jpmorgan-goldman-sachs-credit-default-swaps-fall-after-surge.html
The cost to protect against a default
by U.S. banks plunged after soaring yesterday by the most in
almost three years, as the  Federal Reserve  vowed to keep
 interest rates  near zero through mid-2013.  Credit-default swaps on  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , which decline as investor confidence improves, dropped
by the most since at least May 2010, according to data provider
CMA. A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk also fell by the most
since that month.  Traders pushed the cost of protecting corporate and
financial debt lower after the Fed discussed a range of policy
tools to bolster the economy. Investor confidence in bank and
corporate creditworthiness improved after deteriorating
yesterday at the fastest pace in a year following  Standard &
Poor’s  cut of the U.S. government’s credit rating on Aug. 5.  “While we appreciate the uncertainty regarding the
economy, confidence, mortgage putbacks and Europe contagion, we
firmly believe that yesterday was way overdone in the credit
markets,” Jonathan Hatcher, a credit strategist at Jefferies
Group Inc. in  New York , wrote in a note to clients. U.S.
financial companies today have better balance sheets and
stronger capital and are no longer reliant on overnight
liquidity, he said.  Swaps on New York-based JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S.
bank by assets, declined 19 basis points to 116 basis points,
according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Citigroup, Goldman  Contracts linked to Citigroup Inc. and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  each decreased 25 to 185. Swaps tied to Morgan Stanley debt
dropped 30 to 250 and those on  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  declined 20 to
115, the data show. Contracts on  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the
largest U.S. bank by assets, fell 17 to 278, the data show.  The average credit swap price on the six biggest U.S. banks
fell 23 to 188 after jumping 51 yesterday to 211, the largest
gain since September 2008 when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
filed for bankruptcy and caused credit markets to seize up.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
fell 7.6 basis points to a mid-price of 107.5 as of 5:30 p.m. in
New York, according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index of default swaps climbed 12.1 basis points
yesterday to reach 115.1 points, the highest level since July 7,
2010, Markit data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net 
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  