-- 
JPMorgan Chase Sued by Ellis Institute Over Money Transfers by President

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-08-09T21:34:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/jpmorgan-chase-sued-by-ellis-institute-over-money-transfers.html
The Manhattan Chamber of Commerce’s
chairman illegally transferred more than $2.5 million to his own
accounts while running the  Albert Ellis Institute , the nonprofit
said in a lawsuit claiming  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  let it happen.  Jeffrey Bernstein, the former president of Albert Ellis’
 board of trustees , “secretly and without authority or the
knowledge of its other trustees” moved institute funds into
personal bank accounts he owns or controls, the organization
said in the lawsuit.  Bernstein was first elected to the institute’s board of
trustees in March 2006 and was chosen as president of the board
in July 2006, the institute said in the lawsuit. He was named
acting director of administration in January 2010 and appointed
to the permanent post the following month. Bernstein resigned
from all offices he held at the institute after the fraud was
discovered in February 2011, lawyers for the group said in the
complaint, which was filed today in federal court in  Manhattan .  JPMorgan has been provided with a list of 65 unauthorized
transactions by Bernstein and has refused to restore the funds
to the institute’s account, lawyers for the institute said in
the lawsuit, which seeks more than $2.3 million in damages.  U.S. Investigation  The institute contacted Manhattan  District Attorney  Cyrus Vance’s office about the alleged fraud, and the U.S. Attorney’s
Office in Manhattan is investigating, David Blasband, an
attorney representing the institute, said in a telephone
interview.  Joan Vollero, a spokeswoman for Vance’s  office , declined to
comment on whether the district attorney is investigating.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the lawsuit.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan Chase,
declined to comment on the lawsuit. Patrick J. Smith, an
attorney representing Bernstein, didn’t return a telephone
message left at his office seeking comment on the complaint.
Bernstein isn’t named as a defendant in the suit.  The institute,  located  on East 65th Street in Manhattan, is
a not-for-profit psychotherapy organization founded in 1959 by
its late namesake, Dr. Albert Ellis. It is “committed to
alleviating emotional disturbances and enhancing emotional well-
being through the study, teaching and application of rational
emotive and cognitive behavioral therapy,” according to the
lawsuit.  ‘Chart Our Course’  The Manhattan Chamber of Commerce has no information about
the matter, President Nancy Ploeger said in an e-mailed
statement. Bernstein has resigned as the chamber’s chairman
effective immediately, and the organization’s board will meet as
soon as possible to “chart our course going forward,” Ploeger
said in the statement.  Bernstein serves as chairman of the New York-based
 Archstone Group , a corporate management consulting group, and
was the founder of TruFoods Systems Inc., a company that
operated more than 100 restaurants until 2007 when it was sold
to Trufoods LLC, according to a  biography  posted on the
Manhattan Chamber of Commerce’s website.  TruFoods began in 1998 when Bernstein acquired Pudgie’s
Famous Chicken at a bankruptcy court auction, according to the
biography.  Digital Creative Development Corp. (DCDC) , which operated
the Arthur Treacher’s Fish & Chips chain, bought Pudgie’s in
October 2000 and named Bernstein chief executive officer of the
combined company.  Stalking Horse Bidder  Digital Creative sold its interest in the combined company
to an affiliate of Bernstein’s in March 2002. TruFoods also
participated as a stalking horse bidder in bankruptcy
transactions, according to Bernstein’s biography.  Bernstein previously served as president and CEO of
Consolidated Services Inc., a management consulting firm that
was retained by debtors, creditor committees and secured lenders
in more than 100 Chapter 11 bankruptcy cases, according to the
biography. Bernstein has also served as chief restructuring
officer and an examiner in several Chapter 11 cases, the
biography says.  Bernstein told the institute shortly after he was appointed
director of administration that an operating account it had
maintained at JPMorgan had been closed, the institute said in
the lawsuit.  The institute discovered in February that the account
hadn’t been closed and started an investigation that revealed
that the funds in question had been used by Bernstein for his
“personal benefit,” the institute claims in the complaint.  “When questioned about the allegedly closed Chase Bank
account, Bernstein refused to provide any information, failed to
explain his actions or account for the monies misappropriated
from the institute,” lawyers for the institute said in the
lawsuit. “However, as noted, Bernstein resigned all offices he
held at the institute. Bernstein’s fraud was immediately
reported to law enforcement authorities.”  The case is Albert Ellis Institute v. JP Morgan Chase Bank
NA, 11-cv-5504, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  