-- 
Kan Moves Step Closer to Resignation After Japan Agrees on Budget Funding

-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-08-10T05:31:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/kan-closer-to-quitting-after-japan-agrees-on-budget-financing.html
Japan’s  Democratic Party  may hold a
leadership vote by the end of the month after opposition parties
agreed to back legislation to finance this year’s budget, a
condition set by Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  for resigning.  Parliament is likely to pass the deficit-funding bill and a
law on renewable energy -- another of Kan’s conditions for
leaving office -- by Aug. 26, the DPJ’s Diet affairs chief
in the upper house Yuichiro Hata said today in an interview. The
DPJ may hold its leadership election Aug. 28, the Nikkei
newspaper reported, citing party officials it didn’t name.  The budget deal means that two of three conditions set by
Kan for leaving office have been met, after parliament approved
a 2 trillion yen ($26 billion) rebuilding package last month.
Kan’s announcement in June that he would step down has sparked
speculation over his likely successor, with reports yesterday
saying that Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  is interested in the
top job.  “The measure has been a factor in a political game and
that’s finally over,” said  Chotaro Morita , chief strategist at
Tokyo-based Barclays Capital Japan Ltd. “The market’s attention
will be on who would be the next prime minister, especially
because some candidates look like they are against raising taxes
for fiscal health.”  Kan’s  Democratic Party of Japan  along with the  Liberal
Democratic Party  and New Komeito will pass a bill to sell bonds
to finance  government spending  “without delay,” according to a
joint statement given to reporters yesterday in Tokyo. The
parties also agreed to scrap reduced highway tolls, and will
postpone a review of benefits to high school students and  farm
subsidies  until the next fiscal year, the statement said.  No ‘Personal’ Desire  Kan today reiterated his pledge to leave after parliament
passes the bond and energy bills, telling lawmakers he has no
“personal” desire to remain in power.  The end-of-month election timing seems appropriate if the
legislation is approved because the current session of
parliament ends Aug. 31 and lawmakers would have to approve a
new prime minister after the DPJ race, Tokyo-based independent
political commentator Minoru Morita said today.  “The opposition parties seem to want to pass the bills
quickly and let Kan resign,” he said.  Morita said several candidates are expected to enter the
race to replace Kan in addition to Noda, including former vice
minister for land and infrastructure Sumio Mabuchi, Farm
Minister Michihiko Kano and Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda . Kano
has the best chance to win the party contest, while Noda’s
support for raising taxes would prove unpopular in a national
vote and so dampen his chances of prevailing in the party
leadership race, Morita said.  Cutting Benefits  The deficit-covering bond bill, needed to finance about 40
percent of this year’s 92.4 trillion yen budget, may clear the
lower house this week, the LDP’s No. 2 official,  Nobuteru Ishihara , told reporters after the statement was released. The
upper house, where the DPJ doesn’t have a majority, would then
vote.  LDP leaders had been demanding that the DPJ abandon some of
its benefit programs to win approval for the deficit-covering
bonds. Last week the DPJ agreed with the two opposition parties
to reduce child subsidies, another stumbling block. Kan said
July 29 the country will spend 19 trillion yen over five years
to rebuild from devastation related to the March 11 earthquake,
tsunami and nuclear crisis.  Right Timing  Noda wrote that he is ready to lead the nation when the
“time is right,” according to a copy of an article titled “My
Government Plan” in the Bungeishunju magazine that was
published today. Noda wants to focus on fiscal rebuilding and
would emphasize  Japan ’s alliance with the U.S., the copy said.  The Yomiuri newspaper and  Kyodo News  reported yesterday
that Noda would run in internal elections to head the ruling
party, which chooses the prime minister because it controls the
lower house. Noda, 54, denied the reports, telling reporters in
Tokyo he’d like to focus on fulfilling his job responsibility as
finance minister.  Noda said yesterday in parliament that it is important for
Japan to be considered a country that maintains fiscal
discipline. Japan’s government debt is projected to reach 219
percent of gross domestic product in 2012 even without
considering spending on quake reconstruction, according to the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  The finance minister led a currency-market intervention on
Aug. 4, the third since September to prevent the yen from rising
to a post World War II-high and endangering an export-led
economic recovery. The yen traded at 76.98 per dollar at 2:27
p.m. in  Tokyo .  The currency strengthened to 76.97 on Aug. 4 when
authorities stepped in for the first time since March, after
earlier that week trading as high as 76.30. A postwar record of
76.25 was set in March.  Dissatisfaction with Kan’s leadership after the record
earthquake and tsunami in March has pulled down his public
support rating to a new low of 18 percent this month, according
to a Yomiuri newspaper poll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  