-- 
Kate’s Slow-Motion Kiss, Wedding Cake Lift ‘Horrid’ Dress Show

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-08-09T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/kate-s-slow-motion-kiss-wedding-cake-lift-horrid-dress-show-at-palace.html
The lace gown that  Kate Middleton 
wore for her wedding to  Prince William  is the centerpiece of
 Buckingham Palace ’s annual open house -- fitted on a headless
mannequin that  Queen Elizabeth II  pronounced “horrid.”  For 17.50 pounds ($28.38) per adult ticket, you can join
the hordes of visitors herded through the palace rooms to gape
at the dress, the shoes, the cake, a selection of Faberge eggs,
and choice Old Master paintings in a Disneyland-like tour that
may entice as many as 500,000 visitors between now and Oct. 3.  Buckingham Palace  has linked its summer exhibition to the
April 29 nuptials to raise cash for the royal collections while
the Queen is on holiday. The wedding is good business: It could
add as much as 620 million pounds to the U.K. economy this year
in tourism revenue and food and drink sales, according to
 Verdict Research , a retail analysis unit of  Datamonitor Plc .  “It’s horrid, isn’t it? Horrible,” Her Majesty said
within earshot of the television cameras as she previewed the
ghostly wedding-gown dummy late last month, her own Cartier
tiara suspended over it.  Visitors don’t see it that way.  “I think it’s beautiful,” says mother of two Charlotte
Philips, as she stoops to peel her bored five-year-old off the
carpeted floor. “This is what drew me.”  “It’s something my eight-year-old will remember, the way I
remember seeing  Princess Diana ’s dress when I was 11,” she
says.  The tour weaves through the throne room, ballroom and
dining room, and into the gardens. There, after spending more
cash in the temporary cafe and boutique, visitors can take a
stroll along Her Majesty’s private pond.  Throne Room  The first highlight is the palace throne room. Beneath a
tall velvet canopy are the red armchair-like thrones of the
Queen and Prince Philip. Placards of the new Duke and Duchess of
Cambridge smiling on that very spot make the connection with the
wedding.  Next, you shuffle past a console topped with a fake
arrangement of roses, peonies, and hortensias. Above the faux
bouquet is a real Canaletto of Venetian gondolas bobbing in the
Grand Canal.  Other pictorial gems include Vermeer’s “The Music Lesson”
(1662-5), showing a young lady at her virginal, and Rembrandt’s
portrait of the rosy-cheeked “Agatha Bas” (1641), whose left
thumb grips the corner of the frame as if she were preparing to
climb out.  Visitors are then led into a dimly lit tunnel to ogle
vitrines containing the world’s finest Faberge collection:
bejeweled eggs, miniature instruments, plants, and animals.  Engineered Lace  “Look at that little frog!” squeals one visitor at a
toad-shaped desk seal given to Prince Charles for his 1981
wedding.  The dress display is the climax of the tour. The gown’s
designer -- Sarah Burton of the house of  Alexander McQueen  --
describes on video how her creation was “a real feat of
engineering.”  To stress the difficulty, framed strips of beaded lace hang
nearby, and action shots of the dress are beamed on a plasma
screen: You see footage of the wedding, ending, in slow motion,
with the royal kiss.  In the ballroom, the gown, perched on a podium under a
gauze covering, looks surprisingly small. Beside it are Kate’s
lace pumps, her earrings, and a replica of her bouquet, which
included a flower named Sweet William (which symbolizes
gallantry).  Isn’t 17.50 pounds a high price for a wedding-gown
exhibition?  Cutting Cake  “Definitely not,” says David Horne, a 20-year-old chef
from Middlesbrough,  England . “You see all these rooms, and it’s
good value for money, really.”  The next stop is the state dining room with an eight-tiered
traditional fruit wedding cake. The base is from the original,
and bears the crooked carving mark of Kate and Will’s knife.  On the palace terrace is a temporary tent cafe where tea,
sandwiches and scones are served. One set of visitors appears to
have bought into the fairy tale.  “It looks like those two people love each other,” says
78-year-old Mo Anderson, a Minnesota realtor on the tour with
his wife, daughter and grandson. “You could just see it in
their eyes.”  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts & leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in  London   at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net . 