-- 
KBC Sees Rising Irish Loan Losses, Writes Down Greek Debt

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-08-09T15:53:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/kbc-writes-down-greek-debt-anticipates-rising-irish-loan-losses.html
KBC Groep NV (KBC) , Belgium’s biggest bank
and insurer by market value, said provisions for loan losses in
Ireland will start rising again after reporting the smallest
profit in a year because of a Greek debt writedown.  Second-quarter net income increased to 333 million euros
($474 million) from 149 million euros a year earlier, when the
since-blocked divestment of the private bank unit reduced profit
by 338 million euros, the Brussels-based company said today in a
statement. Analysts projected profit of 334.6 million euros,
according to the average of seven estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Maturing structured-credit investments and divestment of
CDOs and other asset-backed securities helped KBC reduce risk-
weighted assets by 4.2 billion euros in the quarter, generating
an additional 500 million euros of surplus capital available to
reimburse state aid. KBC, which set aside 525 million euros last
year to cover losses on Irish loans, forecast provisions in the
country will start rising again in the second half after an
increase in mortgage arrears accelerated in July.  “Underlying results did beat our and consensus
forecasts,”  Albert Ploegh , an analyst at ING Groep NV in
Amsterdam, wrote in a note. “The credit trends in Ireland are
more worrisome, but do not come as a major surprise to us and
confirms our view that more provisions are required.”  Rescue Funds  KBC advanced 2 percent to 20.94 euros at the 5:40 p.m.
close of trading in Brussels, erasing earlier declines in a
recovery from the lowest intraday value in two years. The shares
have lost 18 percent since the start of the year.  Shareholders’ equity  increased to 33.80 euros a share from
32.40 euros at the end of March. That figure doesn’t include the
7 billion euros of Belgian government rescue funds, nor does it
take into account a premium KBC will have to pay to reimburse
the state aid received.  KBC took a 139 million-euro pretax writedown on its Greek
debt holdings maturing before the end of 2020 and set aside 49
million euros in the quarter to cover loan losses in Ireland.
That equals 30 percent of total loan impairment in the quarter
as KBC made smaller provisions for bad loans in Belgium and in
central and eastern  Europe .  Czech, Hungarian Units  The bank faces payment arrears of at least three months on
more than 13 percent of its 16.9 billion euros of Irish loans.
Provisions covered only 37 percent of non-performing loans at
the end of June.  “We don’t know yet whether this is a structural element or
whether this is a temporary phenomenon,” Chief Financial
Officer Luc Popelier said on a conference call of the
deterioration in Ireland. “It’s too early to say what the total
impact will be.”  The Belgian company obtained European Union approval last
month to sell its Polish bank and insurance subsidiaries and
retain full ownership of banking units in the Czech Republic and
 Hungary .  KBC earned a combined 188 million euros so far this year
from its banking and insurance units in the Czech Republic and
Hungary. That compares with a first-half profit of 70 million
euros in  Poland .  The lender renegotiated the state-aid conditions with the
European Commission after Basel III capital rules and a banking-
industry levy in Hungary made initial public offerings of the
Czech and Hungarian units less attractive options to raise
capital.  Including the 7 billion euros of Belgian rescue funds,
KBC’s core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of financial strength,
climbed to 12.1 percent at the end of June from 11.6 percent
three months earlier.  The bank and insurer said it now has about 5.3 billion
euros of surplus capital it could use to pay back state aid.
That includes the capital released by the divestment of Centea
NV in  Belgium , which was completed on July 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  