-- 
Kentucky Asks to Join Justice Department Suit Against Education Management

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-08-09T16:43:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/kentucky-asks-to-join-justice-department-suit-against-education-management.html
Kentucky asked to join a U.S. lawsuit
claiming that  Education Management Corp. (EDMC) , the nation’s second-
largest for-profit college chain, used improper recruitment
practices to secure more than $11 billion in student aid.  Attorney General Jack Conway filed to intervene in federal
court in Pittsburgh, where the  Justice Department  and four
states filed a complaint yesterday claiming Education Management
illegally paid recruiters based on the number of students signed
up, a violation of rules for colleges that get U.S. student
grants and loans.  “Overaggressive recruiters increase the likelihood that
unqualified students are unable to complete their education and
unable to repay their loans, which leaves taxpayers footing the
bill,” Conway said in a statement.  Prosecutors yesterday spelled out their case against the
company for the first time since May, when the  Justice
Department  joined an employee whistle-blower suit against
Education Management, which is 41 percent-owned by  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  funds. Education Management owns Brown Mackie
College, which has three Kentucky campuses, according to the
Conway statement.  A spokeswoman for Pittsburgh-based Education Management,
Jacquelyn Muller, didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment. The company has denied violating federal rules.  The Kentucky Higher Education Assistance Authority has paid
more than $6 million in need-based and merit-based financial aid
grants to Brown Mackie Colleges since 2004, according to the
statement.  ‘Fraudulently Induced’  Education Management “fraudulently induced” the Education
Department to make the company eligible for more than $11
billion in federal grants and loans since 2003, according to the
complaint filed yesterday.  The industry has been under scrutiny by Congress, state
lawmakers and  attorneys general  who are investigating sales
practices and students’ debt loads. Illinois, Florida,
 California  and Indiana filed yesterday’s suit along with the
Justice Department.  The case was filed under the False Claims Act, which lets
private citizens sue on behalf of the government and share in
any recovery.  The case is U.S. v. Education Management, 07-cv-00461, U.S.
District Court, Western District of  Pennsylvania  (Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey  at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 