-- 
Kenyan Camp Visited by Angelina Jolie Is Final Stop for Starving Somalis

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-09T20:35:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/kenyan-camp-visited-by-angelina-jolie-is-last-stop-for-somalis.html
When  Angelina Jolie   visited Dadaab 
two years ago, she described conditions as “dire.” The world’s
biggest refugee camp today is bursting with the daily arrival of
1,500 Somalis escaping  Africa ’s worst famine in six decades.  The three-settlement complex in  Kenya , 100 kilometers (62
miles) south of the Somali border, was created to house 90,000
people displaced by the Somali civil war that followed the 1991
ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre. It’s now hosting more
than 420,000 and a fourth camp is being built to ease the
overcrowding, the State Department said today.  “A lot of people have died just trying to get here,” said
Jeremy Hobbs, executive director of Oxfam International, in a
telephone interview from Dadaab, where a quarter the children
arrived malnourished. “It’s overwhelming.”  Once at Dadaab, a tent city spread over 50 square
kilometers, refugees are supposed to get a three-week ration of
food -- corn meal, sugar, and beans -- plastic sheets, cooking
utensils, a jerry can, sleeping mats and soap.  Instead, they are met with endless lines at the
registration office as aid agencies such as  Oxfam  International
and  CARE  struggle to meet the demands of a drought-triggered
plight that threatens to engulf almost half of Somalia’s 7.5
million inhabitants. Food prices in Somalia have more than
tripled from a year ago because of scarcity.  About 29,000 children have died from the famine in the last
90 days, said Gayle Smith, special assistant to President  Barack Obama , who briefed reporters by conference call.  Babies and Cows  One mother, having walked weeks to get to a clinic,
realized upon lifting her child off her back that the baby had
died, said CARE worker Alexandra Lopoukhine, describing what she
witnessed in Dadaab. Most new arrivals are women and children.
Many of the men have stayed behind to tend dying livestock.  “I met a father who recently lost his wife, and he was
there nursing his five remaining cows,” Wouter Schaap,
assistant director for CARE in Somalia, told a U.S. Senate
committee at an Aug. 3 hearing. “The cows were bleeding from
their noses, and he was trying to do something about it but not
really knowing what to do.”  Famine has been declared in five regions of Somalia and the
 United Nations  expects it to spread across all regions within
two months. Dadaab, a focal point of the humanitarian effort,
has drawn international attention.  Additional Aid  Obama has approved adding $105 million in famine relief for
the Horn of Africa. A U.S. team, led by  Jill Biden , wife of U.S.
Vice President  Joe Biden , visited yesterday, adding more high-
level attention.  “The demands and the needs are growing faster than what
has been provided,” said former Senator  Bill Frist , a
Republican from  Tennessee , who accompanied Jill Biden.  Nicknamed ‘Saint Angelina’ for her humanitarian work as a
UN goodwill ambassador, Jolie observed in a September 2009 tour
of the camp how people in Dadaab lived among garbage and sewage.  “If this is the better solution, what must it be like in
Somalia?” she asked in a  video posted  by the UN refugee agency.  The answer lies with the 116,000 starving Somalis that so
far this year have braved bandit-infested hinterlands, where
women are frequently raped during a journey that can last weeks,
to reach by foot what for them is the promised land.  The stricken head to one of three locations where they’ve
been told they can be saved: the capital Mogadishu, Dadaab or
neighboring  Ethiopia .  Factional Fighting  Somalia hasn’t had a functioning government in two decades
and the factional fighting makes aid delivery risky. The UN
Refugee Agency flew to Mogadishu yesterday to deliver its first
shipment of emergency supplies in five years.  Al-Shabaab, which has pledged allegiance to al-Qaeda,
withdrew from the capital in a move that may offer residents of
the war-torn country some respite. The militant group had banned
the UN World Food Programme and other aid agencies from working
in areas under its control.  Schaap, who just returned from inspecting famine-stricken
parts of Somalia, said the worse is ahead as the deepest part of
a drought typically hits a month before the start of the rainy
season in October. That in turn triggers a new set of problems
with the spread of waterborne diseases such as cholera.  The UN said $2.5 billion is needed to confront the
humanitarian crisis, with only $1.4 billion pledged.  “The worry is that the scale of the unfolding tragedy is
so massive and the response so far has been too little,” Schaap
in a telephone interview from Nairobi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  