-- 
Africa’s New Middle Class Lures Investment: Witney Schneidman

-- B y   W i t n e y   S c h n e i d m a n
-- 
2011-08-09T00:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/new-african-middle-class-lures-investment-commentary-by-witney-schneidman.html
For too long, the story of  Africa  has
been about government corruption, war and disease. The economic
news was bad, too; from 1975 to 1995, the continent was mired in
negative growth, indebtedness and hyperinflation.  Now that story is changing. During the past 10 years, six
of the world’s fastest-growing economies have been in sub-
Saharan Africa, according to the  Economist  magazine. Over the
next five years, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia,
Ghana, Mozambique, Nigeria, Tanzania and Zambia may grow at an
average of 7.2 percent annually, the Economist says. Over this
period, the average African economy will outpace its counterpart
in  Asia . Africa has become an important emerging market and,
compared with other regions, it has a relatively high rate of
return on investments.  In many countries, political reform has accompanied
economic growth, allowing local entrepreneurs to thrive. By
2030, Africa’s new middle class -- more than 300 million strong,
-- will spend $2.2 trillion a year, which amounts to about 3
percent of worldwide consumption, according to the  African
Development Bank.   China  is one of the many nations that have taken notice.
Its companies are doing business in each of Africa’s 54
countries. Trade between China and Africa will almost triple to
$300 billion by 2015, according to  Standard Bank of South
Africa .  Companies from India and  Brazil  are likewise pursuing
commercial opportunities across the continent.  The European
Union  is aggressively negotiating agreements that will give EU
businesses access to African markets as well.  As for the U.S., in June, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  led a large delegation to the 10th  African Growth and
Opportunity Act  forum in Lusaka, Zambia, in an effort to deepen
U.S. commercial relations. U.S. companies have been slow,
however, to recognize Africa’s potential. The last time a U.S.
commerce secretary visited the region was in 2002, when Donald
Evans was there.  Although troubling news of election-rigging and civil war
continues to be reported from places such as Somalia, Sudan and
 Zimbabwe , many other countries are experiencing improved
government accountability. In 1989, only three sub-Saharan
nations qualified as democracies, according to  Freedom House,  a
nonprofit institution that assesses the state of governance
around the world. By 2008, there were 23. This year, 19 African
countries will hold national elections.  The majority of African governments have developed
strategies to reduce poverty, and this has led to improvements
in public health and education. Business leaders and civil-
society organizations, among others, are contributing to a new
spirit of debate and tolerance. Africa’s moment is at hand.  Angola   Angola’s 27-year civil war killed as many as 1.5 million
people and displaced an additional 4 million. Since the war
ended in 2002, the country has been working to rebuild its
roads, bridges and communications networks, drawing on lines of
credit from several countries, including Brazil, China and
 Germany . Angola, a member of the  Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries , produces about 1.9 million barrels of oil
per day and is one of Africa’s top exporters.  Botswana   Botswana has a flourishing multiparty democracy, with roots
in Setswana traditions such as the village council, or Kgotla.
The powers of traditional leaders are limited by law and custom.
Recently, the national government has made significant
investments in education, health care and roads and other
infrastructure projects to help create one of Africa’s most
dynamic economies. Mineral extraction, principally diamond
mining, dominates the economy, though tourism is growing, as
people from around the world are drawn to Botswana’s extensive
nature reserves. The country has one of the world’s highest
rates of HIV/AIDS infection, but also one of Africa’s most
effective programs for preventing and treating the disease.
After two decades of democracy and economic growth, the middle
class has expanded to encompass almost half the population.  Ethiopia   Ethiopia is the second-most-populous country in sub-Saharan
Africa, and one of the world’s oldest civilizations. From 2003
to 2007, its economy grew rapidly, enabling the country to
withstand the recent global economic crisis better than most
other developing nations did. Ethiopia’s exports include a
quality highland Arabica coffee, most of which is harvested
organically. The country is the world’s 10th-largest producer of
livestock, including cattle, goats and sheep, which are exported
throughout the Persian Gulf and the  Middle East , as well as
Asia. And it sells a range of high-quality hides and skins. In
an effort to sustain the country’s economic performance, the
government has devalued the currency and, to mitigate high food
prices, imported cereals. It has also sold some retail shops,
hotels and restaurants that were state-owned.  Ghana   Since Ghana became independent from the U.K. in 1957, its
economy has been based on a diverse mix of natural resources,
including gold, diamonds, manganese ore and bauxite. Agriculture
has been important, too, contributing more than a third of GDP
and about 55 percent of formal employment. Ghana’s primary cash
crop is cocoa, which accounts for a third of export revenue. In
2007, oil was discovered off the coast, and the country is
projected to become the third-largest oil producer in West
Africa within five years. Ghana is on track to meet the  United
Nations ’ Millennium Development Goal of halving extreme poverty
by 2015. And it is the one of the few nations in Africa where
democratic elections have removed the incumbent party from
office. Ghana’s emerging middle class is buoyed by entrepreneurs
returning from the U.S., the U.K. and elsewhere to take
advantage of the country’s progress.  Kenya   Kenya has struggled to stamp out government corruption and
recover from election violence in 2007 that left 1,000 dead. In
2010, however, 67 percent of voters approved a new constitution,
which restored stability by limiting the powers of the
president, instituting a bill of rights and sharing power with
local governments. This has helped stabilize Kenya’s position as
the financial, communications and transportation hub of East
Africa. Kenya’s fastest-growing economic sector is now banking
by mobile phone. Almost a quarter of the population relies on
“mobile money transfers” to access and save capital.  Mozambique   In 1992, when Mozambique’s civil war ended, the country
ranked among the poorest in the world. The government began a
program of reform, resettling civil-war refugees and working to
create a business-friendly environment. Ultimately, more than
1,200 state-owned enterprises were sold to private buyers. From
1994 to 2006, gross domestic product grew about 8 percent. In
April 2000, Mozambique was the first African nation to qualify
for debt relief under a program of the  World Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund , and this led to forgiveness of a
significant portion of its bilateral debt. There is considerable
scope for further growth in transportation, tourism and
especially agriculture, which could lead to the continued growth
of Mozambique’s middle class.  Namibia   Since becoming independent from South African
administration in 1990, Namibia has been politically stable and
has enjoyed relatively strong economic growth. Known for its
diverse wildlife -- including elephants, black rhinoceroses and
lions -- the country has written conservation measures into its
constitution. As a result, more than a million eco-tourists are
drawn to the country each year. Also important to the country’s
economy are mining and the processing of gem-quality diamonds
and other minerals. And the waters of the South Atlantic provide
Namibia with some of the richest fishing grounds in the world.  Nigeria   Nigeria is the U.S.’s largest trading partner in sub-
Saharan Africa; the country supplies 8 percent of U.S. oil
imports, accounting for almost half of Nigeria’s production. For
the past 30 years, an over-reliance on crude oil has hurt the
country’s agricultural and light-manufacturing sectors, and has
led to a decline in employment and per-capita income. However,
small shops and other “informal sector” businesses are
expanding, and are now estimated to represent as much as 75
percent of the total economy. Thanks to help from donors such as
the  World Bank , the IMF, the U.S. and the U.K., Nigeria’s
external debt has declined to less than 4 percent of GDP in 2007
from 36 percent in 2004. The government has strengthened its
market-based economy by reforming the banking sector, selling
its interest in eight oil-service companies, deregulating fuel
prices and creating a commission to investigate financial
crimes. Nigeria’s elections in April suggest a new standard of
integrity for the country’s political process, and this should
encourage more skilled emigrants to return and join the
expanding class of entrepreneurs.  Senegal  Senegal’s economy is based on fishing, tourism, peanuts and
phosphate mining. Dakar, the former capital of French colonial
West Africa, is home to banks, telecommunications providers and
insurance companies that serve the broader West African region,
and this has given rise to the country’s growing middle class.
Dakar is also a regional hub for shipping. Senegal has one of
the best-developed tourism industries in Africa, and since it
became independent from France in 1960 it has been one of the
few countries on the continent that has never experienced a
coup.  South Africa   South Africa has a first-world economy, based on mining,
manufacturing, services and agriculture. Yet the nation also
faces developing-world challenges, such as unemployment, an
inadequate housing supply and pressures on its health-care
system stemming from a high HIV/AIDS infection rate. The
peaceful transition to a democratic government in 1994 started a
national debate on how to redress socioeconomic disparities. And
for the past 15 years, the government has pursued an economic
policy that has brought greater financial discipline and
macroeconomic stability. Significant economic shortcomings
remain, but the private sector has expanded as South African
businesses have become more integrated into the global economy.
Shaking off the oppression of the apartheid era, upwardly mobile
blacks have gained access to education, jobs, loans and
property.  Tanzania  Bolstered by strong gold production and tourism, Tanzania’s
GDP grew 7 percent from 2000 to 2008. Agriculture, for its part,
provides 85 percent of exports and employs about 60 percent of
the workforce. Although Tanzania’s industrial sector -- which
includes meatpacking, textile and apparel production, leather
tanning and plastics -- is one of the smallest in Africa, it has
also been one of the fastest-growing over recent years. The
government has worked to improve the business climate by
rewriting tax codes, floating the  exchange rate  and licensing
foreign banks, creating new opportunities for local businesses.  Zambia  Steady growth in mining, construction, telecommunications
and tourism helped Zambia’s GDP rise at an average rate of 5.6
percent a year from 2001 to 2010, and sustain the expansion of
its middle class. When the annual increase in GDP reached 7.6
percent in 2010, the World Bank named the landlocked country one
of the world’s fastest-growing economies. To promote this
growth, over the past several years the government has
streamlined its budget process, removed subsidies on electricity
rates to attract more private participation in the sector and
sold to private buyers state-owned enterprises, including a
copper-mining business and a telecommunications company. It is
also promoting agriculture, tourism, gemstone mining and
hydropower to diversify the economy and create more employment
opportunities for Zambians.  (Witney Schneidman is the president of Schneidman and
Associates Intl. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Witney Schneidman at  witney@schneidman.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Stuart Seldowitz at   sseldowitz@bloomberg.net . 