-- 
News Corp.’s James Murdoch to Explain Story Holes to Lawmakers in U.K.

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n ,   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-08-10T14:21:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/news-corp-s-james-murdoch-to-explain-story-holes.html
James Murdoch’s testimony last month
to U.K. lawmakers about phone hacking by  News Corp. (NWSA)  journalists
produced responses that he’d been mistaken, misled or just lied.
This week he’s supposed to explain which of those it was, if any.  Murdoch,  News Corp. (NWS) ’s deputy chief operating officer, has
until tomorrow to submit written replies to Parliament in London
to respond to former executives of News of the World, a defunct
News Corp. tabloid. They said some of his statements were
“mistaken.” A former News Corp. law firm may undermine other
Murdoch testimony in its responses.  When Murdoch appeared July 19 with his father Rupert before
lawmakers, he said he hadn’t realized until late 2010 that more
than one reporter had engaged in phone-hacking. Afterwards, Tom Crone, the tabloid’s legal manager, and  Colin Myler , its onetime
editor, said they told Murdoch in 2008 about an e-mail that
suggested more reporters had been involved. They said they told
him about it when they asked him to approve a 700,000-pound
($1.1 million) settlement with a phone-hacking victim.  Murdoch’s response to his former employees’ statements will
determine whether he will be tarred as a poor manager or worse.
Lawmakers’ reaction to it will also probably put the spotlight
back on the hacking scandal after News Corp. reports projected
positive earnings results after U.S. markets close today.  ‘Difficult Position’  “He’s in a very difficult position,” Niri Shan, a media
lawyer at Taylor Wessing LLP said of  James Murdoch . The new
testimony “is just going to draw more attention” to the phone-
hacking scandal.  Police today said they arrested a 12th person in their
investigation of phone hacking and other activities at the
tabloid. Sky News said the 61-year-old man arrested was Greg
Miskiw, a former editor at News of the World.  The circumstances surrounding the 2008 payment to victim
 Gordon Taylor , chief executive of the Professional Footballers’
Association, were the focus of many lawmakers’ questions to
Murdoch last month. John Whittingdale, who chairs the committee
investigating the scandal, said he’s likely to recall witnesses
to resolve current contradictions and that Murdoch, Crone and
Myler face further questions.  Murdoch was assisted at the hearing by Executive Vice
President  Joel Klein , a former assistant U.S. attorney general,
and by the interim general counsel, Janet Nova.  ‘For Neville’  Murdoch said he agreed to the payment -- more than 10 times
the record court award in a privacy case at the time -- on
advice of outside counsel. Crone told the committee in 2009 that
the company decided to settle after Taylor’s lawyer found an e-
mail from a junior reporter to  Glenn Mulcaire , the private
investigator at the center of the phone-hacking allegations. It
was labeled “for Neville.”  The transcript was of 35 voicemail messages left by Taylor
and his legal adviser. The text of the transcript was redacted
by the committee. At the time of the message, the only Neville
working at the tabloid was chief reporter Neville Thurlbeck.  “The bit I still don’t understand is why anybody would pay
700,000 pounds,” said  Chris Bryant , a Labour Party lawmaker who
is suing the company over phone hacking. “They must have had
terrible legal advice or they’re lying. It was money to go away
and be quiet.”  Miranda Higham, a spokeswoman for News Corp., declined to
comment on any inconsistent statements by Murdoch, who stood by
his testimony to Parliament last month after Crone and Myler
said he was “mistaken.” Myler declined to comment on the same
matter. Lawmakers have asked Crone and Myler to submit
statements regarding the settlement.  Culture Committee Meeting  The Culture Committee may meet early next week to decide
whether to release the evidence, according to a person familiar
with the situation.  News Corp. shut the  News of the World  last month after a
report that its journalists deleted messages from a murdered
schoolgirl’s mobile phone. The scandal led to the arrest of
former News of the World editors Rebekah Brooks and  Andy Coulson . The company also dropped its 7.8 billion pound takeover
bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   Three Opportunities  James Murdoch took over News Corp.’s European newspaper
operations in late 2007, after the conviction of the News of the
World royal reporter,  Clive Goodman , and Mulcaire, of hacking
voicemail messages.  The Taylor settlement was the first of at least three
opportunities the Murdoch may have had to question whether
wrongdoing had been confined to Goodman and Mulcaire. The second
was in July 2009, when the  Guardian newspaper  reported on the
Taylor settlement and revealed the “for Neville” e-mail.  At the time, News Corp. denied that the Guardian had
revealed any new information or that there was any need for
further inquiry.  In February 2010, Whittingdale’s committee released a
report on press standards, concluding it was “inconceivable”
that only Goodman had known about phone-hacking, that the
newspaper’s inquiries had been “far from ‘full’ or
‘rigorous,’” It accused News Corp. witnesses of suffering
“collective amnesia.”  ‘Not Even Incompetence’  “There was never any real belief at the higher echelons of
the company that this merited any kind of looking into,” said
Claire Enders, founder and chief executive of media researcher
Enders Analysis in  London , whose clients include the U.K.
government. “That’s not even incompetence; that’s just one
event after another being underpursued and people not paying
attention.”  Murdoch’s testimony may also be challenged by the law firm
he said he relied on to review phone-hacking at News of the
World. Harbottle & Lewis LLP, bound to silence by attorney-
client privilege, received a waiver from News Corp. to discuss
the matter. Murdoch had told the committee a review of e-mails
the firm conducted had led to “a clear legal opinion that there
was no additional illegality other than the two individuals.”  Ken Macdonald, the former Director of Public Prosecutions,
told Parliament’s Home Affairs Committee last month that it took
him less than 10 minutes to conclude that the e-mails showed
evidence of corrupt payments to police officers, a crime Goodman
was never accused of.  No Evidence  Harbottle & Lewis wasn’t asked to do a full audit of News
of the World e-mails, instead looking only at those between
Goodman and five executives. The  law firm  said that it could
find no “reasonable evidence” that Goodman’s phone hacking was
known about or that others were carrying out similar acts.  In an interview last month with his flagship newspaper, the
Wall Street Journal,  Rupert Murdoch , News Corp.’s chief
executive, said the firm had made a “major mistake” in
underestimating the scope of the problem.  After his testimony, the younger Murdoch was supported by
the board of BSkyB, which last month unanimously backed him to
remain as chairman of the satellite television broadcaster.  He was appointed CEO of BSkyB in 2003 and promoted in 2007
to run News Corp.’s television, newspaper and digital operations
in  Europe ,  Asia  and the  Middle East , while becoming non-
executive chairman of BSkyB. In March, he took on the role of
deputy chief operating officer at News Corp.  Stock Performance  New York-based News Corp. fell 67 cents to $13.88 at 10:23
a.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading today. Shares have fallen
about 23 percent since news of the phone-hacking scandal broke
July 4.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
units of News Corp. in providing financial news and information.  Before making his formal explanations to Parliament, James
Murdoch’s strongest defense to claims he failed to investigate
phone hacking was his reliance on early police investigations.
The police in 2009 said they saw no reason to reopen the News of
the World probe.  The officer in charge of the 2007 case,  Peter Clarke , had a
different view of the police reports’ value. He told the Home
Affairs Committee last month that News Corp. obstructed his
officers.  “This is a global organization with access to the best
legal advice -- in my view deliberately trying to thwart a
criminal investigation,” Clarke said. “I was as certain as
could be that they had something to hide.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  