-- 
News Corp. Should Split Murdoch Role, Name New Chair, Investor Group Says

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-09T20:33:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/news-corp-should-split-murdoch-role-name-new-chair-investor-group-says.html
News Corp. (NWS) , the media company under
fire for a phone-hacking scandal at one of its London
newspapers, should separate the roles of chairman and chief
executive officer and make other changes, an investor group
said.  The company, controlled by Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Rupert Murdoch , should have an independent chair, the
investor group said in the letter to the company obtained by
Bloomberg News. The group, represented by the Interfaith Center
on Corporate Responsibility, includes Trillium Asset Management
and Northwest Coalition for Responsible Investment, and owns
700,000 non-voting News Corp. shares.  News Corp. is facing investor criticism amid the phone-
hacking scandal which escalated on July 4, when the  Guardian
newspaper  reported that News of the World had accessed the voice
mail of murdered teenager Milly Dowler. The controversy has
prompted the resignations of two executives, the shutdown of the
168-year-old newspaper and the termination of News Corp.’s bid
for full control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   The majority of News Corp.’s board, which is meeting today,
should consist of independent directors, the investor group
said. It also said News Corp. should eliminate its dual-class
stock structure.  Last week, an investor group including Wespath Investment
Management asked to meet with News Corp.’s lead independent
director on ways to restore investor confidence. The group,
which holds 1.11 million Class A shares and 201,000 of the Class
B voting stock, cited “several areas of concern, including dual
chairman/CEO role, a high number of inside or affiliated
directors, and a dual share class structure.”  News Corp., the New York-based owner of  Fox News  and the
Wall Street Journal, rose 93 cents to $14.55 at 4 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The Class A shares are
little changed this year.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
 News Corp. (NWSA)  units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  