-- 
Obama Seeks 20% Cut in U.S. Big-Rig Truck Fuel Use by 2018

-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-08-09T18:25:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/obama-seeks-20-reduction-in-u-s-big-rig-truck-fuel-use-by-2018.html
U.S. truck makers will improve
tractor-trailer fuel economy by about 20 percent by 2018, saving
$50 billion in fuel costs over five years and decreasing carbon-
dioxide emissions, President  Barack Obama  said.  The administration’s plan  -- the first attempt to regulate
the efficiency of heavy-duty trucks, including city buses and
garbage trucks -- will save 530 million barrels of oil,
according to a statement from the White House today.  The standards for heavy-duty trucks follow Obama’s July 29
announcement of fuel-economy rules for cars and light trucks
that are to take fleetwide averages to 54.5 miles per gallon by
2025. For heavy-duty trucks, regulations focus on how much
carbon individual truck parts emit, instead of the mileage
standards used for cars. The effort to regulate big rigs and
other work trucks started while the White House was negotiating
fuel-economy rules for passenger vehicles, Obama said.  “We started getting letters asking that we do the same for
medium and heavy-duty trucks,” Obama said in the statement.
“They were from the people who build, buy and drive these
trucks. And today, I’m proud to have the support of these
companies.”  Big-Rig Cost  The cost of a big rig will increase approximately $6,220
because of the new fuel-saving technology, administration
officials said during a briefing yesterday. Truck operators will
save $73,000 in fuel costs over the lifetime of the trucks,
according to summaries of the regulation.  One type of big rig, the high-roof sleeper cab, may achieve
a 23 percent reduction, according to the officials. Heavy-duty
pickup trucks and vans, used by contractors and small
businesses, will become about 15 percent more efficient by 2018,
according to the White House statement. School buses, city-
transit buses and work trucks used by utilities will improve
about 10 percent.  Trucking companies, who will bear the up-front costs of
more expensive technology, will pay for the investments through
fuel savings in 18 months to 24 months, said Bill Graves,
president and chief executive officer of the  American Trucking
Associations  in Arlington, Virginia.  “It’s an exciting time for our industry,” Graves said to
reporters outside the White House. “It was a win-win for
everyone.”  Sticker Prices  It’s too early to tell what will happen to sticker prices
because introduction of the cleaner trucks is still three to six
years away, said Martin Daum, president and chief executive
officer of  Daimler Trucks North America LLC .  “If the customer saves $2,000 a year in fuel, then he’s
willing to pay for that,” Daum said. “If he saves very little
then we can’t ask for something. It’s a function of what
technology we put on the truck and what the fuel price is.”  Small-business truckers will have a hard time paying for
the new trucks, especially when costs from other regulations
including electronic data recorders and mandatory speed limiters
are taken into account, said Joe Rajkovacz, director of
regulatory affairs at the Grain Valley, Missouri-based  Owner-
Operator Independent Drivers Association .  “The EPA has demonstrated yet another example of our
wretchedly broken regulatory process,” Rajkovacz said.
“Congress should take action when they return in September to
rein in the bureaucracy.”  Techology Credits  Truck makers that use advanced technologies such as diesel-
electric hybrid transmissions and heat-waste recovery systems
will get 1.5 credits for every system used, the officials said.
Companies can trade the credits, which are subject to an annual
cap, they said.  The goals should help trucks improve fuel use to 7 or 7 1/2
miles per gallon by 2018, he said, from about 6 1/2 miles per
gallon today, said Glen Kedzie, vice president and environmental
counsel at the American Trucking Associations, an Arlington,
Virginia-based industry group.  Engine improvements will account for about 6 percent of the
efficiency improvement, Kedzie said. Truck makers will be able
to use changes such as lighter materials, tires with less
friction, engine-idle reduction and better aerodynamics for the
rest of the 20 percent improvement, he said.  Cummins Inc. (CMI)  believes it’s ahead of its competitors in
bringing new technology to market, and it will be a year ahead
of schedule to meet the rules’ requirements, said Rich Freeland,
president of the Columbus, Indiana-based company’s engine
business.  ‘Big Boost’  “The big boost will be to those that meet the fuel-economy
standards and do it at the lowest cost,” Freeland said. “We
intend to get to the standards ahead of the dates that have been
targeted.”  U.S. trucks consume about 22 billion gallons of diesel
every year, said Allen Schaeffer, executive director of the
Diesel Technology Forum, a Frederick, Maryland-based trade
group.  “Because of the sheer magnitude of commercial vehicles
operating in the  United States , this regulation has the
potential to result in significant environmental and energy-
efficiency gains,” Schaeffer said.  An analysis by the Union of Concerned Scientists, a
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based environmental group that helped
negotiate the standards with the White House, shows the rules
should add about 40,000 U.S. jobs in areas including
manufacturing by 2020.  Adding Jobs  “The new standards will shift clean truck technology into
gear,” said Don Anair, a senior engineer with the group’s
clean-vehicles program. “They’ll help put Americans back to
work by shifting money away from  oil companies  and back toward
local economies.”  The industry has collaborated with regulators at the
Environmental Protection Agency and the  National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration  over the past 15 months. This type of
cooperation could serve as a lesson to politicians, said Daniel Ustian, chairman, president and chief executive officer of
 Navistar International Corp. (NAV)   “Every day we compete pretty hard against each other,”
Ustian said. “But we’re all here lined up. Maybe we can show
 Washington  it can be done.”  To contact the reporters on this story: Jeff Plungis in
Washington at   jplungis@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Talev  at the White House at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 