-- 
Obama Dueling With Boehner Shows Deficit Compromise Not Near

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-08-09T18:16:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/obama-sparring-with-boehner-shows-compromise-on-deficit-reduction-not-near.html
President  Barack Obama  and House
Republican leaders are showing no signs of backing off their
stances on how to cut the federal deficit.  Obama, making his first public comments since Standard &
Poor’s downgraded the U.S. credit rating to AA+ from AAA on Aug.
5, said yesterday that “common sense and compromise” should
lead to a deficit-reduction plan that includes more  tax revenue ,
which Republicans have rejected, as well as spending cuts.  U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  and Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  responded with statements saying what’s needed are cuts
in mandatory spending, such as Social Security and Medicare, to
make enough progress on the long-term shortfall. Boehner ruled
out what he called “job-destroying tax hikes.”  Both sides sought to reassure global investors while
staking out positions for negotiations on the direction of a so-
called super committee of lawmakers, which is supposed to come
up with at least $1.2 trillion in deficit reductions beyond the
more than $900 billion that Republicans and Democrats have
already agreed to. The panel was set up under a law that raised
the nation’s debt ceiling, and if it fails, a trigger mechanism
would kick in to slash spending equally in defense and domestic
programs.  Stocks Rise  After falling yesterday the most since December 2008, U.S.
stocks staged the biggest rally of the year today. The  Standard
& Poor’s  500 Index surged 2.7 percent to 1,149.44 at 12:15 p.m.
in  New York  for its biggest gain since September.  The benchmark lost 6.7 percent yesterday, the first day of
trading since the S&P’s action, wiping out $1 trillion on
concern the economy will keep slowing.  Treasuries fell today amid speculation the  Federal Reserve 
may signal plans to safeguard the recovery. The drop in
Treasuries, the benchmarks for the $34 trillion U.S. debt market
that is more than twice the value of American equities, sent the
10-year yield up seven basis points to 2.39 percent.  Obama yesterday sought to temper public concern about
market volatility and the credit-ratings drop, citing the
productivity of U.S. workers, the strength of the country’s
universities and the nation’s history of entrepreneurship and
innovation.  “Markets will rise and fall, but this is the  United States
of America ,” he said. “No matter what some agency may say,
we’ve always been and always will be a AAA country.”  ‘Sense of Urgency’  Still he said, the S&P action should create “a renewed
sense of urgency” for members of both parties to come up with a
plan for bringing the government budget under control and
shrinking deficits.  Obama vowed to offer his own recommendations in the
“coming weeks.” He also reiterated his stance that any
solution must include “ tax reform  that will ask those who can
afford it to pay their fair share, and modest adjustments to
health-care programs like Medicare.”  Gene Sperling , director of Obama’s National Economic
Council, told Bloomberg Television today that without compromise
from both parties “there’s going to be real economic
consequences.”  “The best signal we can have to the people, to markets, is
that we are willing to take aggressive bipartisan action” on
short-term job growth and long-term debt measures, he said.  Cantor, of  Virginia , said compromising on raising taxes in
return for modest changes in entitlement programs is “a trade
we simply cannot afford to make.”  ‘Pressure to Compromise’  As a result of S&P’s analysis of the U.S. budget position,
Republicans will come under “pressure to compromise on tax
increases,” Cantor wrote in a memo to House colleagues that was
released by his office. “We will be told that there is no other
way forward. I respectfully disagree.”  While welcoming Obama’s promise to lay out specific reforms
for entitlement programs,  Ohio ’s Boehner said raising taxes is
“simply the wrong approach.” Lawmakers must focus on cutting
spending, he said.  The debt-ceiling deal Obama struck with  House Republicans 
last week cuts $917 billion from spending over the next decade.
The super-committee -- the two top Republicans and Democrats in
the House and Senate each will name three members by Aug. 16 --
will try to come up with at least an additional $1.2 trillion in
 deficit reduction .  Falling Short  In downgrading U.S. debt, S&P said in a statement that the
plan “falls short of what, in our view, would be necessary to
stabilize the government’s medium-term debt dynamics.”  Obama and the two Republican leaders agreed that the focus
of the White House and Congress should be on generating greater
economic growth, even as their prescriptions differed.  “The challenges go beyond the stock market,” Obama told a
crowd of about 140 donors last night at a fundraiser in
 Washington . “Corporate profits have been up. The credit markets
have stabilized but what’s absolutely true even before these
last couple days in the stock market is that recovery wasn’t
happening fast enough.”  Sperling said Republicans must “at a minimum” agree to
extend the temporary payroll tax cut for workers through 2012 to
aid growth now.  Boehner said the answer is to provide “economic certainty
and creating an environment in which businesses can invest and
jobs can flourish.”  Regulation Rollback  Cantor said House Republican leaders are preparing a
package of legislation to be voted on beginning in September
that would “reduce or eliminate regulatory barriers to  job
creation .”  Americans “want to see less government -- not more
taxes,” Cantor said.  S&P’s downgrade decision was at odds with the other two
main ratings companies, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings. Both affirmed their AAA grades on  U.S. debt  on Aug. 2,
when Obama signed an increase in the U.S. debt ceiling and plan
to trim the nation’s deficit.  The new rating is the second-highest and puts the U.S. on
the same level as  Belgium  and  New Zealand , and above Japan and
 China . Under S&P’s definitions, debt rated AA is barely
different from AAA securities and shows that a borrower’s
ability to “meet its financial commitment on the obligation is
very strong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  