-- 
Obama Shows His Gambling Streak in Debt-Ceiling Deal: Ron Klain

-- B y   R o n   K l a i n
-- 
2011-08-09T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/obama-shows-his-gambling-streak-in-debt-ceiling-deal-ron-klain.html
Among the many misconceptions about
 Barack Obama  is that he is cautious. In fact, it is hard to
think of a modern president in recent times who has been more
willing to take big risks, not because he is reckless, but
because he is willing to suffer potential short-term setbacks to
achieve a desired long-term result. It is in that context that
the much-maligned debt-ceiling compromise must be understood.  This sort of risk-taking goes beyond making policy choices,
whose success or failure will always be debated, and can’t be
known for years. What I am talking about are presidential
decisions that can be demonstrably shown to be right or wrong in
a relatively short window, with serious repercussions. That sort
of risk-taking by presidents is fairly rare, and yet Obama
hasn’t hesitated to take such gambles.  One example early in his administration was his choice to
“bail out” the automobile industry. There were many ways in
which that could have gone wrong: Chrysler Group LLC and  General
Motors Co. (GM)  could have failed; management changes and bankruptcy
filings that the administration insisted upon could have
exacerbated problems; good money could have been thrown after
bad.  The safe course was the one that President  George W. Bush 
followed: pumping in just enough money to be able to say he had
made an effort, and letting the chips fall where they may. But
Obama took action by investing substantial funds, demanding
important management and strategic changes, requiring bankruptcy
filings, and painfully shrinking auto-dealer networks. All were
risky steps that could have quickly unraveled.  Two years later, that choice is paying off: Car sales have
risen, auto-industry employment is up, taxpayers are getting
their money back, and U.S. cars are getting higher consumer
ratings than ever.  Health-Care Overhaul  A second gamble came in early 2010, after  Scott Brown  won a
Massachusetts Senate seat in an unexpected victory for
Republicans, and vastly complicated the path for Obama’s health-
care reform bill. With the loss of the 60th Senate vote for the
measure, many of the president’s advisers urged him to abandon
the push for a comprehensive bill, and pursue a far more limited
approach. But Obama wouldn’t bend, and took a gigantic risk: He
pressed for a House vote on a bill that was passed by the Senate
the previous year and was unpopular with many House Democrats.  Obama could have easily, and visibly, lost. Yet, once
again, his gamble paid off, achieving a victory that had escaped
his predecessors.  Bin Laden Raid  And earlier this year, the president once again rejected
the play-it-safe advice of many advisers, and ordered SEAL Team
6 to carry out its heroic raid to kill  Osama bin Laden . The
safer alternative -- a drone strike -- would have minimized the
fallout if the al-Qaeda leader wasn’t at the target, or if the
assault went awry. But the president believed that bin Laden’s
death could only be verified with a manned raid; once again,
the risky decision was the right choice.  So now we come to the recent debt-ceiling deal, in which
the president took a gigantic political risk: publicly pressing
for a “Grand Bargain” to tackle long-term budgetary challenges
that would reverse years of unwillingness in Washington to
consider revenue as part of the fiscal solution.  This time, he came up short. We’ll never know how close we
came to a “Grand Bargain,” but Obama didn’t get the revenue
increases that he wanted.  Yet instead of folding his hand, he decided to double down
in the fiscal card game, an appropriate way to understand the
debt-ceiling compromise.  Long View  In accepting a deal that swapped an increase of more than
$2 trillion in the debt ceiling for discretionary spending cuts
that Republicans wanted -- without balanced, revenue-increasing
measures -- the president didn’t give up on his goal, as some
progressive critics have alleged. Instead, he gambled that he
would be able to reach his objective later.  The key to this wager is the package of contingent cuts
that will be triggered if Congress fails to pass additional
deficit reduction after a so-called super-committee makes
recommendations in November.  The current betting in  Washington  is that the committee
won’t yield much, and that Obama will come up short again.
Republicans remain under huge pressure from the Tea Party, from
anti-tax activists, and their base, not to yield on the revenue
question.  Rating Downgrade  But Standard & Poor’s Aug. 5 downgrade of  U.S. debt , due in
large part to the Republicans’ refusal to consider revenue
measures, is a sign that the odds are shifting in the
president’s favor. And there are three other reasons why in
December Obama might get the victory he couldn’t get in August.  First, there are the cuts that the president agreed to in
the first phase of the debt-ceiling deal. These undermine one
objection to revenue increases: the idea that the deficit can be
addressed through spending reductions alone, and that lowering
expenditures should precede any new revenue. Obama has given the
“cuts-first” crowd its day, and can now move on to the business
at hand: balancing cuts with revenue.  Second, there is the progress he has made in winning over
the public to the idea of a balanced solution to the deficit
(and in discrediting the  Tea Party ’s extremism). The political
shellacking that the Republican House majority and the Tea Party
have taken in recent surveys helps the president’s cause. The
S&P downgrade adds to the pressure he can bring.  Trigger Cuts  Third, there is the pain that would be imposed if the
super-committee fails and the contingent “trigger” is pulled.
The cuts required are so unpalatable that they would create a
strong momentum toward responsible congressional action.  The last of these may be the most important in maximizing
Obama’s chances of winning this latest -- and maybe largest --
gamble. In the weeks ahead, the White House should do everything
possible to convince the widest spectrum of voters that the
consequences of activation of the trigger would be unacceptable.  The administration took a step in that direction Aug. 4,
when Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said that the trigger’s cuts
to defense spending would cause “real damage” to national
security. Panetta’s comments need to be followed by specific
detail of the reductions that would ensue if the trigger is
pulled. Such an accounting will make plain who will suffer if
Congress doesn’t act in a more balanced fashion.  A similar case must be made for the trigger’s impact on
Medicare and other non-defense programs.  Showing the Pain  Again, generalities can get the administration only so far.
It must set forth the potential reductions in detail, and show
just how they will devastate senior citizens and our health-care
system. While these cuts are in the package to pressure
Democrats to come to the table, the political reality is that,
if they occur, their sting will hurt Republicans as much (or
perhaps even more) than they would the president’s party.  Ultimately, the only way that Republicans will accept what
they consider unacceptable -- revenue increases -- is if the
alternative is even less acceptable: horrific defense and
Medicare cuts.  If the White House can drive that message home in the next
three months, continue to advance its political case against the
extreme anti-revenue elements of the  Republican Party , highlight
the consequences of the  S&P downgrade , and raise the cost of
failure by the super-committee and the Congress so high that it
can’t be borne, the president may get his way.  Obama’s willingness to mark his time and double down may be
vindicated, and the critics who are betting against him now may
be proven wrong once again.  ( Ron Klain , a former chief of staff to Vice President  Joe Biden  and senior adviser to President Barack Obama on the
Recovery Act, is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is a senior
executive with a private investment firm. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ron Klain at  rklain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  