-- 
Obama Honors Fallen Commandos in Private Service at Air Base

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-08-10T04:01:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/obama-attends-return-of-remains-at-air-base-after-fatal-afghanistan-crash.html
President  Barack Obama  honored the
30 commandos killed when their helicopter was shot down in
 Afghanistan , attending a solemn ceremony for the return of their
remains to U.S. soil.  Tending to one of the grimmest chores of his office, Obama
spent five hours at Dover Air Force Base in Delaware yesterday,
paying respects and offering condolences to family members of
the fallen special operations personnel.  The return of the remains aboard two C-17 military
aircraft, the transfer to a military mortuary and meetings with
families was conducted in private. Obama and a delegation of
military officials boarded each plane before a special team
began moving the flag-draped containers to the base mortuary.  The ceremony, known as a  dignified transfer , is conducted
under a strict protocol. Every step is designed to maintain
respect for the dead to the point that if “flags are smudged,
they are replaced,” Van Williams, a spokesman for the Air Force
Mortuary Affairs, told reporters.  The 30 dead included 22 U.S. Navy SEAL commandos, most from
the elite unit once known as SEAL Team Six, which carried out
the May raid that killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in
Abbottabad,  Pakistan , two U.S. officials said on Aug. 7 on
condition of anonymity. None of those killed were from the SEAL
Team Six squadron involved in the bin Laden raid, they said.  It was the biggest loss of U.S. troops in a single
engagement since the 2001 start of the war. Seven Afghan
commandos and a civilian interpreter also died when the CH-47
Chinook helicopter carrying them was shot down by the Taliban in
an eastern province of Afghanistan.  Investigation of Crash  The U.S. Central Command, which oversees U.S. military
operations in Afghanistan, announced that Army Brigadier General
Jeffrey Colt will lead an investigation into the circumstances
of the crash. Colt is deputy commander of the 101st Airborne
Division.  About 250 family members of those who died were invited to
attend the transfer. The president spent about 70 minutes
meeting with family members at a facility on the base.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta , Navy Admiral Michael Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Admiral
William McRaven, head of the Joint Special Operations Command,
led a delegation representing all branches of the military. Also
present was Afghanistan’s ambassador to the U.S.  Obama made no public statements while at the base.  Identifying the Dead  The crash “was so horrific” that the remains haven’t been
individually identified, Williams told reporters. That will be
done at the mortuary through DNA, dental records and
fingerprints, he said.  Identification takes three days on average, Williams said.
Once that is complete, remains are turned over to families.  In the wake of the deaths, the administration pledged to
stay on the offensive in Afghanistan.  Panetta said on Aug. 8 the U.S. has “unyielding
determination to press ahead.”  “As heavy a loss as this was, it would even be more tragic
if we allowed it to derail this country from our efforts to
defeat al-Qaeda and deny them a safe haven in Afghanistan,”
Panetta told a gathering marking the change of commanders for
U.S. Special Operations Command at MacDill Air Force Base in
Tampa,  Florida . “Instead, we will send a strong message of
American resolve. From this tragedy, we draw even greater
inspiration to carry on the fight.”  Pressing Ahead  In remarks on Aug. 8 at the White House, Obama said the
fallen troops served “this nation as a team. They met their
responsibilities together.”  “Our responsibility is to ensure that their legacy is an
America that reflects their courage, their commitment and their
sense of common purpose,” he said. “We will press on. We will
succeed.”  The helicopter carrying the special operations force was
hit as it was flying into a firefight that had targeted a
Taliban leader.  North Atlantic Treaty Organization officials suspect that
the CH-47 was downed by an unguided rocket-propelled grenade,
not a more advanced heat-seeking shoulder-fired missile that
might have indicated a new level of Taliban capability,
according to Marine Corps Colonel  David Lapan , a Pentagon
spokesman.  As of Aug. 8, 1,687 U.S. military personnel have been
killed in Afghanistan since the war began in 2001 and 13,011
have been wounded, according to the Pentagon.  Obama said on June 22 that the surge of military force he
ordered to Afghanistan in 2009 has accomplished its objectives
and he will pull the 33,000 extra troops from the country by the
summer of 2012.  About 10,000 troops would be withdrawn by the end of this
year and the remainder would return home by September 2012. He
reaffirmed the goal of turning over security for the country to
Afghan forces in 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Dover,  Delaware , at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  