-- 
Och-Ziff Said to Gain Last Week as Some Funds Dodge Rout

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n ,   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-08-10T17:07:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/och-ziff-said-to-rise-last-week-as-some-of-largest-hedge-funds-dodge-rout.html
Hedge funds run by  Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group LLC (OZM)  and Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP
advanced last week as some of the industry’s largest managers
dodged the deepest slump for global stocks since 2008.  The main fund of Och Ziff, the $30 billion firm run by
Daniel Och in New York, rose 1 percent, and London-based Brevan
Howard’s $25 billion Master Fund, the world’s second-biggest
macro fund, gained 2 percent, according to people briefed on the
returns who asked not to be named because the information is
private.  “Managers who were macro aware have managed to pull their
exposures much faster than the stock pickers,” said Alper Ince,
a partner at Pacific Alternative Asset Management Co. in Irvine,
 California , which invests in  hedge funds  on behalf of clients.
“Many people are in a wait-and-see mode. They want to see the
dust settle before making massive changes.”  Investor concerns that the  U.S. economy  may relapse into a
recession drove investors out of stocks, triggering a 7.2
percent decline last week in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
a 9.9 percent drop in the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index. The selloff
was the worst since the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. three years ago triggered a global credit freeze.  Hedge funds lost 2.5 percent last week, bringing their loss
in 2011 to 4.7 percent, according to Hedge Fund Research Inc.’s
HFRX Global Hedge Fund Index.  ‘De-Risked’ Holdings  Macro hedge funds such as  Brevan Howard ’s typically trade
currencies, interest rates and bonds, seeking to profit from
broad economic trends. Brevan Howard, run by  Alan Howard ,
departed from the strategy to benefit from tactical moves,
making short-term trades when it perceived markets misjudged
asset values, said one of the people.  Multistrategy funds such as Och-Ziff’s can use a variety of
tactics to try to deliver gains regardless of how markets
perform.  Och-Ziff bought options on almost $12 billion of U.S.
stocks during the first quarter, according to a May regulatory
filing, a move that may generate profits if markets turn more
volatile this year.  “One of the issues that concerns me is whether managers
get into a situation where they de-risked their portfolios at
the bottom and then are unable to capture the potential
upside,” said Brad Balter, head of Boston-based Balter Capital
Management LLC, which also invests client money in hedge funds.
“If markets can hold their gains for the next few days, it is
likely managers will be forced to put their positions back on at
higher levels.”  Citadel, JAT Capital  Och-Ziff’s main OZ Master Fund lifted its return to 1.2
percent this year, said an investor who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public.  Citadel LLC’s two largest funds were little changed and
gained 14 percent this year through last week, said a person
with knowledge of the results, who asked not to be named because
the information is private. Citadel, which is based in  Chicago 
and oversees about $11 billion, is run by  Ken Griffin .  JAT Capital Management, the New York-based fund run by John Thaler with about $2 billion, was little changed after posting a
32 percent gain this year through July, according to a client
who asked not to be named because the returns aren’t public.  Stocks Retreat  London-based Marshall Wace LLP’s $400 million MW Global
Opportunities Fund, which is managed by Fehim Can Sever, has
risen 5 percent this month, according to a person familiar with
the matter who asked not to be named because the information is
private. The fund, which invests in stocks, has gained 10
percent this year, said the person.  Investors continued to flee riskier assets on Aug. 8, the
first trading session after  Standard & Poor’s  cut  U.S. debt  to
the second-highest level of AA+ from AAA.  Federal Reserve policy makers met yesterday after the
unprecedented downgrade of the government’s top credit rating
shook confidence in the U.S. economic recovery.  The  S&P 500  surged to close with a gain of 4.7 percent
after the Fed pledged for the first time to keep its benchmark
 interest rate  at a record low at least through mid-2013 to
revive a recovery that’s “considerably slower” than
anticipated. Today, the index retreated, losing 3.6 percent at
10:13 a.m. New York time.  Among funds that suffered losses last week is John
Paulson’s Advantage Plus Fund, which fell 11 percent and is now
down 31 percent since the start of the year, according to a
person familiar with the firm. New York-based Paulson & Co.
manages $15.7 billion in various Paulson Advantage funds.  Lansdowne, SAC Losses  Lansdowne Partners Ltd., the $14 billion hedge fund in
 London , was hurt last week by its holdings in financial firms
including  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   Its $8 billion U.K. Equity Fund, the biggest hedge fund in
Europe that bets on stocks, fell 4.4 percent this month through
Aug. 8 and 16 percent this year, according to a person familiar
with the matter, who asked not to be identified because the
returns aren’t made public.  SAC Capital Advisors LP, the $14 billion hedge fund run by
billionaire  Steven A. Cohen  in Stamford,  Connecticut , lost about
4 percent from its main fund this month through Aug. 8,
according to a person familiar with the matter. The fund had
gained about 10 percent this year through July.  R.G. Niederhoffer Capital Management Inc.’s $22 million
Negative Correlation Fund jumped 23 percent this month through
Aug. 8, leaving it with a 5.3 percent gain this year, according
to a letter to clients of the  New York  firm.  Officials for the hedge funds declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in 東京 at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  