-- 
Falling Oil Prices a Silver Lining for Obama in Sluggish Economy

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-08-10T04:01:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/oil-price-drop-gives-obama-silver-lining-amid-sluggish-economy.html
There is one potential silver lining
for President  Barack Obama  amid stock market volatility, the
first-ever downgrade of the nation’s credit rating by  Standard &
Poor’s  and a slowing economy: falling oil prices.  “This is really the classic good-news, bad-news story,”
said  Stuart Rothenberg , editor of the Washington-based
Rothenberg Political Report. “Oil prices are politically
important because, for consumers, they’re one of the obvious
indicators of prices in general and how far their dollar is
going to stretch.”  Obama has repeatedly cited the high cost of fuel as one of
the “headwinds” against the recovery. In June, with oil
topping $90 a barrel as turmoil in  Libya  squeezed supplies,
Obama announced he would act in conjunction with 27 other
nations and release crude from the nation’s Strategic Petroleum
Reserve. The move had a short-lived impact on prices as oil
swung above $99 a barrel in July before declining earlier this
month.  Gasoline futures fell yesterday to a five-month low in  New
York  and crude oil tumbled 2.5 percent to the lowest level since
September after the  Federal Reserve  said the economic recovery
is “considerably slower” than anticipated.  Crude for September delivery dropped $2.01 to $79.30 on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement since Sept.
29 a year ago. Futures have fallen 17 percent in August and 13
percent this year.  The price for regular gasoline at the pump, averaged
nationwide, has fallen to $3.652 a gallon from $3.70 a week ago,
according to  AAA data . Prices have dropped every day except one
since July 29.  Bright Spot  “If there’s one bright spot in the economy, it’s the fact
that oil is off significantly,” said Dominick Chirichella,
senior partner at the Energy Management Institute in New York.
“Lower  oil prices  mean lower prices at the pump and that is
good for consumers.”  To be sure, while  consumer confidence  moves closely with
the price of a gallon of gas, the drop in oil prices is less a
sign of strength than it is an indicator of slowing growth in
demand and concerns that the economic recovery is stalling.  While gasoline prices are still up about 33 percent
compared with a year ago, they will continue to fall if oil is
trading in the range of around $83 a barrel, said Frank Verrastro, an energy policy staff member in the Carter
administration and now director of the Energy and National
Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies in  Washington .  Job Market  With jobs and the sagging economy shaping up to be the
dominant issues in the 2012 presidential campaign, that may not
be enough to erase voters’ economic concerns.  “There’s no question when people feel better, even if
their paychecks are stagnant, when watching those gas prices
tick down at the pump,” said  Jared Bernstein , who was Vice
President Joe Biden’s chief economic adviser until April. “But
the state of the labor market -- specifically jobs and paychecks
-- dominates right now. So, it’s a rough go for working
families.”  The  unemployment rate  in July was 9.1 percent and the
administration forecasts it will be above 8 percent when voters
go to the polls for next year’s election.  As part of his broader economic message, Obama has focused
on the need to reduce dependence on foreign oil and create new
clean-energy jobs. After spending much of the last several
months mired in negotiations to raise the debt ceiling, Obama is
trying to refocus his administration’s efforts on  job creation 
with many events tied to energy.  Pump Prices  “For the last few months, gas prices have just been
killing folks at the pump,” Obama said on July 29 in
Washington, announcing new fuel efficiency standards for
vehicles.  Obama canceled an event planned for today, at which he was
set to announce efforts to improve tractor-trailer fuel economy,
in order to travel to Dover Air Force Base in Delaware for the
return of the bodies of special operations troops killed Aug. 6
in Afghanistan. On Aug. 11, Obama is scheduled to tour an
advanced battery facility in Holland,  Michigan , to highlight
technology that can boost the U.S. auto industry and help
automakers meet higher fuel economy standards.  Still, the average American looking at the economy may not
find as much comfort in lower gas prices than they would have in
years past, said Frank Newport, editor-in-chief of the Gallup
Poll in Princeton,  New Jersey .  “In the darkness, a little candle certainly is better than
nothing,” he said. “When we say what’s the most important
problem facing the country, jobs and the general economy swamp
the price of gas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 