-- 
U.K. Riot Bill ‘Well Over’ 100 Million Pounds, Insurers Say

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-08-09T15:55:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/london-riot-bill-in-tens-of-millions-of-pounds-insurers-say.html
British insurers face a bill of
“well over” 100 million pounds ($162 million) after three
nights of rioting destroyed vehicles, homes and businesses in at
least six  London  boroughs and three other cities.  “Most commercial insurance policies will cover businesses
for damage to their premises,” Nick Starling, director of
general insurance at the  Association of British Insurers , said
in an e-mailed statement. “Some policies will also cover those
businesses which are not damaged, but whose trade is affected.”  Shop and homeowners in the London boroughs of Lambeth,
Hackney,  Lewisham , Newham, Tower Hamlets and Croydon, as well as
the cities of Liverpool, Birmingham and Bristol were among those
surveying the damage caused by rioting today. The trouble began
after Mark Duggan, a 29-year-old Tottenham resident, was shot
dead by police last week.  “Last night was the worst the MPS has seen in current
memory for unacceptable levels of widespread looting, fires and
disorder,” the  Metropolitan Police Service  said in a statement.  At least 44 police officers have been injured, 525 people
arrested and 99 charged with a range of criminal acts, following
the fighting and looting. Police will have 16,000 officers on
duty tonight, more than double last night’s total, as the force
said it was prepared for “mass disorder again.”  The violence is the worst since at least 1985, when riots
erupted in Tottenham, north of the  River Thames , and Brixton, to
the south.  ‘Claims Coming In’  “It is too early for us to have an accurate picture of
total costs, especially business interruption costs, but
insurers are working hard to deal with claims coming in,”
Starling said. Home insurance policies should cover customers
for fire, looting and damage to property, he said.  Aviva Plc (AV/) ,  Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Axa SA (CS) ,  RSA Insurance Group Plc (RSA)  and
 Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN)  are the U.K.’s five biggest
commercial property insurers, according to the ABI. Typically
policies cover fire and damage to property, said Bill Gloyn, a
real estate insurance broker at  Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group
Plc. (JLT)   “Almost all commercial property is insured on an all-risk
basis, so it doesn’t matter one way or the other what the cause
of the damage was,” he said.  Smaller business may not be covered for looting as often
insurers ask them to pay extra for theft insurance, according to
Gloyn. Insurers may also question how well protected unoccupied
properties were during the riots, he said.  ‘Act Promptly’  Uninsured business and homeowners may also be able to claim
for damages from the police if the events of the last three days
are classed as a riot under the Riot (Damages) Act of 1886.
Insurers may also be able to recover money under the
legislation, the ABI said.  “A claim must be made to the police force within 14 days,
so it is important that all business owners act promptly,”
according to Daniel Barnett, a barrister at Outer Temple
Chambers in London.  Even so, the damage will probably push up insurance rates
in affected areas and insurers may require businesses to add
extra defenses such as metal shutters, JLT’s Gloyn said. Premium
rates for commercial property insurance have fallen by about a
third in the last 10 years due to stiff competition between
insurers, he said.  The  British Retail Consortium , which represents retailers,
called for banks to ensure credit arrangements allow businesses
to repair their property and re-open and for insurers to keep
premiums at “affordable” levels.  “I’m reassured that many people have expressed their
disgust at the events of the past few days,”  Stephen Robertson ,
director general of the BRC, said in an e-mailed statement. “I
hope they’ll join retailers in doing all they can to rebuild
their neighborhoods.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 