-- 
London City Financial Job Vacancies Drop 11 Percent on Cuts, Survey Says

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-08-09T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/london-city-job-vacancies-drop-11-percent-on-cuts-survey-says.html
Job vacancies at  London ’s financial
services companies tumbled 11 percent last month as investment-
banking revenue declined and banks cut jobs, recruitment firm
 Astbury Marsden  said.  The number of new job vacancies in the City fell to 4,800
last month from 5,400 in June, the recruiter said in a statement
today. The number of candidates seeking work climbed 32 percent
to 14,280 as bankers sought new jobs ahead of likely cuts at
their firms, the London-based company said.  There is a “combination of cost cutting to make up for
weak revenues and a bigger cull of lower performing staff than
would normally happen,” said  Mark Cameron , chief operating
officer. “This year, some banks are looking at the bottom 10
percent and they are making these cuts at least three months
early.”  European securities firms and banks, including  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
Credit Suisse Group AG and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , have announced
plans to cut jobs during the past two weeks after reporting
declines in investment-banking profit as the continent’s
sovereign debt crisis cripples trading. HSBC pledged to
eliminate 30,000 jobs by the end of 2013, while Zurich-based
Credit Suisse said it will remove 2,000 posts.  “Whilst several banks and other City firms may be looking
to trim staffing levels across part of  Europe , they are also
likely to be hiring in other areas,” Cameron said. “We are
seeing stronger demand from our Asia offices than here in the
U.K.”  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the U.K. bank which makes most of
its profit in  Asia , plans to add 2,000 people globally by the
end of this year. Most of the hiring would be in the emerging
markets, Jaspal Bindra, chief executive officer for Asian
operations, said in an interview on Aug. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  