-- 
Riots in London Spark Olympic Security Review as 2012 Test Events Go Ahead

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-08-09T15:23:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/london-riots-spark-olympic-security-review-as-2012-test-events-go-ahead.html
Organizers of the 2012  London
Olympics  won’t cancel test events planned for this week as they
review security after three days of riots in the British
capital.  A six-day beach volleyball event starting today at Horse
Guards Parade, near the No. 10 Downing Street official residence
of U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , and the London-Surrey
cycling road race this weekend will go ahead as planned,
according to the London organizing committee, known as Locog.  “A lot of detailed work has taken place regarding security
plans for the Games, and we will continue to review them
together with the Met. Police and the  Home Office  over the
coming year,” a Locog spokeswoman said in an interview.  Cameron, who last night cut his Tuscan holiday short and
returned to the U.K., said there will be 16,000 police officers
on duty in London tonight, up from 6,000 last night. The rioting
has seen petrol bombs being thrown, buildings set on fire and
shops being ransacked. More than 450 people have been arrested,
Cameron said.  The Games start July 27 next year with the opening ceremony
in the Olympic Stadium in east  London . Representatives of more
than 200 national Olympic committees are in London for meetings
today about logistics and accommodation.  Olympic Riots  It is not the first time an Olympic host city has had to
deal with riots before the Games. Ten days before the 1968
Mexico City Olympics, government forces opened fire on
protesters on the Plaza de Tres Culturas, which led to a death
toll of at least 250, according to the “The Complete Book of
the Olympics” by David Wallechinsky. Students rioted in  Seoul 
in the run-up to the 1988  Summer Olympics .  “Security at the  Olympic Games  is a top priority for the
 International Olympic Committee ,” the IOC said in an e-mailed
statement today. “It is, however, directly handled by the local
authorities, as they know best what is appropriate and
proportionate. We are confident they will do a good job in this
domain.”  Earlier today, the English  Football Association  called off
tomorrow’s exhibition soccer match between  England  and the
Netherlands at Wembley Stadium in northwest London following the
rioting across the capital. East London soccer club West Ham
United said today’s Carling Cup match against Aldershot has been
postponed following a request from the police.  “It’s scandalous that street terror seems to be winning
the battle with the authorities,” Lloyd Vandenberg, chairman of
the Dutch soccer supporters club, said in an interview today
from Amsterdam. “I would never have expected England to have
let this happen, particularly in light of the Olympic Games next
year. You would have expected the government to stand up to the
rioters forcefully, by bringing in the army for example.”  1,500 Fans  Vandenberg estimated some 1,500 Dutch fans would have
travelled to Wembley Stadium to watch their team play. About 300
are already in the British capital, he added.  A statement from the  Metropolitan Police Service  reported
“serious outbreaks of disorder,” including looting, in a
number of London boroughs, including Hackney, Newham, Lewisham,
Bethnal Green, Croydon and Hackney. The west London suburb of
Ealing was also struck by riots.  Newham, where a large part of the Olympic Games will be
held, is the sixth-most deprived district in England out of more
than 350 assessed by the government. The east London district is
home to the Olympic Park, which will host the swimming, cycling,
handball and basketball. It will house the press and broadcast
centers as well as the Olympic stadium, where the opening and
closing ceremonies and the athletics events will be held.  The violence is unlikely to have an impact on next year’s
Games, the  European Tour Operators Association  said.  “The Olympics is overwhelmingly a domestic event,” the
group’s executive director  Tom Jenkins  said in an emailed
statement. “British people won’t be put off from visiting the
Olympics in Stratford because a year earlier shop windows were
broken in Hackney.”  Preparing Team GB  The  British Olympic Association  said in a statement that
“the events of the past few days have had no impact on our
planning and preparation.” It added that its focus remains on
preparing Team GB.  “The primary responsibility for security rests with law
enforcement authorities, who work closely with the Games
organizing committee and other bodies to ensure every measure is
taken to provide a safe and secure environment,” the BOA said.
“We know that security has been a top priority in the planning
and preparation for London 2012, and we have full confidence in
the work being done to prepare for the Games.”  BOA Chairman Colin Moynihan said in an interview yesterday
that “overall the policing for the Games is at such a high
level of organization and commitment that there will be no
problems associated with a successful Games.”  Athletes including women’s marathon world record holder
Paula Radcliffe of Britain have expressed their shock at the
violence.  “In less than one year we welcome the world to London, and
right now the world doesn’t want to come,” Radcliffe, who plans
to compete in the Olympic marathon next year, said on Twitter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  