-- 
Hong Kong Airport Runway May Cause Pollution to Exceed Limit

-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 
2011-08-09T12:59:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/hong-kong-airport-runway-may-cause-pollution-to-exceed-limit-1-.html
Hong Kong  airport’s proposed HK$136
billion ($17 billion) third runway may cause the level of
pollutant nitrogen dioxide in the facility’s vicinity to exceed
the limit set by the city’s government, according to a study.  Annual cumulative concentrations of the gas in the airport
and nearby areas may range between 16.5 micrograms and 81.1
micrograms per cubic meter,  Ove Arup & Partners Hong Kong Ltd. ,
appointed by the Airport Authority Hong Kong to assess the
effect on air quality, said in its  report . The government has
proposed halving the legal limit for nitrogen dioxide, found in
vehicle exhaust, in Hong Kong to 40 micrograms per cubic meter.  The consultant’s 2010 report was one of the eight posted on
the authority’s website yesterday as it performs a three-month
public consultation to end Sept. 2. Another report by HSBC
Holdings Plc said rising construction costs may increase the
authority’s pre-financing cash shortfall.  The  air quality  report was based on a maximum projected
capacity of 620,000 annual flight movements. The authority will
conduct a more detailed assessment and ensure the project
complies with the law, it said in an e-mailed response to
Bloomberg News questions. The authority also said HSBC’s report
“has sought to establish a prudent financing plan such that the
underlying financial profile of the AAHK remains robust.”  Cash Shortfall  The authority’s HK$112.8 billion pre-financing cash
shortfall for the new runway may increase to HK$133 billion
because of rising construction costs, according to a May 31
 report  by HSBC, a financial adviser for the project.  The third runway will cost HK$86.2 billion in 2010 prices,
equivalent to HK$136.2 billion with inflation, according to the
authority’s estimates.  Asia ’s third-busiest airfield is considering the new runway
to serve an estimated 97 million passengers by 2030. The
project, which may take about nine years to complete, will also
help handle 8.9 million tons of cargo.  The airport may need to reclaim about 650 hectares of land
from the sea to build the runway. Groups including Civic Party
lawmakers have opposed the plan on concern about its effect on
marine wildlife, including the endangered pink dolphin.  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) , the city’s biggest carrier,
said on June 2 that it gave “full and unequivocal backing” for
the third runway. The city’s airport boosted passenger numbers
about 10 percent last year to 50.9 million, trailing only
Beijing and Tokyo Haneda in Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  