-- 
Hong Kong Sells Sha Tin Site for $704 Million, Less Than Analyst Estimates

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   V i n c e n t   J i a n g
-- 
2011-08-09T11:34:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/hong-kong-sells-sha-tin-site-for-704-million-less-than-analyst-estimates.html
Hong Kong ’s government, which is
boosting housing supply to ease soaring home prices, today sold
a site at auction 33 percent below estimates after stock markets
were roiled by the U.S.’s debt downgrade.  A group including  Kerry Properties Ltd. (683)  and Sino Land Co.
bought the land in the Sha Tin district on the first bid for
HK$5.5 billion ($704 million), below the HK$8.25 billion median
estimate of five in a Bloomberg News survey. Transactions of
used apartments at the 10 biggest private projects in Hong Kong
fell over the weekend from a week earlier as buyers were
deterred by concerns the U.S.’s loss of its top  credit rating 
will extend equity declines.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  fell for a sixth day and
tumbled more than 20 percent from a November high as a report
showing Chinese inflation accelerated added to concern the
global economic slowdown may worsen in the wake of the U.S.
credit-rating downgrade. The government accelerated land sales
this fiscal year in a bid to stem a more than 70 percent gain in
home prices since the beginning of 2009.  “The surprising price shows developers’ long-term concerns
under financial turmoil,” said Hong Kong-based Yu Kam-hung,
senior managing director at CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. “I
expect a 20 percent price downturn in the coming two years.”  The Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks the shares of
Hong Kong’s seven-biggest developers, fell 3.3 percent as of
3:34 p.m. local time, 24 percent from a November high.  Poor Sentiment  The threat of more government curbs, coupled with rising
mortgage rates, drove the number of home transactions in the
city to a 30-month low in July.  Transactions of used apartments at the 10 biggest private
projects fell to 24 over the weekend from 31 a week ago,
according to Midland Holdings Ltd., the biggest publicly traded
real estate agent in the city.  Home prices  may drop 5 percent to
7 percent before transactions pick up as buyers are deterred by
a collapse of global investor confidence after the U.S.
sovereign-rating downgrade and  Europe ’s debt problems, Buggle
Lau, chief analyst at Midland, said in an e-mailed press release
on Aug. 7.  “The bidding sentiment was rather poor; there was little
interest in bidding today,” said G.M. Ross, the auctioneer and
deputy director of the Lands Department.  The government will take into consideration today’s auction
result for land it plans to sell in the future, Ross said,
declining to give details. The government has  sold  14 parcels
through auctions or tenders during this fiscal year, which began
in April, compared with 17 sites in the previous financial year,
according to the Lands Department website.  Tsang Pledge  The government will maintain its land sale plan, Financial
Secretary John Tsang said today, after the site sold at a lower-
than-estimated price. Tsang said in his Feb. 23 budget speech
that his government may sell as many as 52 plots of land this
year. The land could yield 16,000 units, almost 80 percent more
than from sites sold last year.  At least 970 homes will have to be built on the site, with
a total buildable area of 1.03 million square feet, according to
the  sales document . The government set the minimum apartment
requirement in June when it put up the Sha Tin site and two
others for auction.  The price is equivalent to about HK$5,330 per square foot,
derived by dividing HK$5.5 million by the total buildable area.  Apartments built on the site would need to sell at about
HK$10,000 per square foot, 20 percent lower than the current
luxury home price in Sha Tin, according to CB Richard Ellis’s Yu.  Uncertain Future  The site is located on Kau To Shan hill, a luxury
residential area in the east of the New Territories that’s
within walking distance to the  Chinese University of Hong Kong 
and is close to the Sha Tin Race Course.  Forecasts for the auction ranged from HK$6.68 billion to
HK$9.27 billion. Surveying firm AG Wilkinson & Associates cut
its forecast for the auction earlier today by 7.7 percent to
HK$6.68 billion.  Henderson Land Development Co. holds the current record for
the New Territories, the area connecting the rest of Hong Kong
to the border with the Chinese city of Shenzhen, with HK$5.6
billion paid for a site in the Tai Po area in 1997.  The government raised down-payment requirements for some
home purchases and foreign buyers in June, the fourth set of
restrictions imposed since October 2009 to curb residential
prices that have surged over 70 percent in the last 30 months.  “Today’s result reflects developers are not certain about
the future,” said  James Cheung , a surveyor at Centaline
Property Agency Ltd., Hong Kong’s biggest closely held realtor.
“This is similar to what happened during the credit crisis when
people were unsure about where the economy was heading.”  Most Expensive Place  Hong Kong is the world’s most expensive place to buy a home,
55 percent pricier than  London , Savills Plc said in January.  Hong Kong’s mortgage rates have been rising at an
accelerated pace since March following decisions by  HSBC
Holdings Plc (5) , the city’s biggest bank by number of customers,
and rivals to raise them again in July.  The number of housing transactions plunged 60 percent in
July from a year earlier, the seventh straight month of declines,
according to Land Registry data. The value of those transactions
dropped 39 percent, the lowest since April 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  