-- 
New York Rush-Hour Commuters Face Delays Up to 90 Minutes After Derailment

-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a   a n d   G r e g   C h a n g
-- 
2011-08-09T22:08:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/long-island-rail-road-new-jersey-transit-face-delays-on-train-derailment.html
New York  commuters are facing evening
rush-hour delays of as long as 90 minutes as railroads cancel
some trains and combine others after a  New Jersey  Transit Corp.
derailment near the city’s Penn Station.  Trains are running 60 to 90 minutes late on the Northeast
Corridor and North Jersey Coast line, Courtney Carroll, a  New
Jersey Transit  spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. Long Island Rail
Road and Amtrak also said customers should expect delays from
the accident, which occurred shortly before 8 a.m.  “Crews continue to work to clear the affected equipment
from the tracks, with no estimate for full restoration of
service at this time,” New Jersey Transit said in a statement.  The derailment near the  Hudson River  tunnel left only one
of two tracks in service after the last two cars of the 10-car,
7:53 a.m. train came off the rails en route to Trenton, New
Jersey, Carroll said. The cars were empty, and there were no
injuries among the train’s 300 passengers, she said.  Delays are expected to continue on all Amtrak Northeast
Corridor service between Boston and  Washington , according to a
statement. Keystone Line service between Pennsylvania and New
York has been temporarily shut, and was set to resume at 6:35
p.m. local time.  New Jersey Transit announced 17 cancellations, and
Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s Long Island Rail Road
canceled nine trains to open two tracks to be shared by New
Jersey Transit and  Amtrak .  The travel disruptions occurred with the New York region
forecast to have a chance of thunderstorms this evening,
according to AccuWeather Inc. in State College, Pennsylvania.  New Jersey Transit customers can use rail tickets at no
additional charge on Port Authority Trans-Hudson trains
departing from the Newark and Hoboken stations in New Jersey and
33rd Street in New York, and on New Jersey Transit and private
carrier buses, according to the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Chang in  San Francisco  at 
 gchang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Chang at 
 gchang1@bloomberg.net  