-- 
Mortgage Rate Cuts Show RBA Benchmark Peaking: Australia Credit

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-08-09T14:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/mortgage-rate-cuts-show-rba-benchmark-peaking-australia-credit.html
Australia ’s biggest lender made the
largest cuts to fixed  mortgage rates  since 2008, after money
markets signaled the central bank may lower the world’s highest
benchmark borrowing costs as global growth slows.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , with A$299.4 billion ($305
billion) in outstanding home loans, yesterday cut its fixed-rate
home loans by as much as 0.6 percentage point, while  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC) , with A$281.8 billion in mortgages, lowered its
three year rate. Interbank cash-rate futures indicate the
Reserve Bank of Australia’s key rate will fall to 3.49 percent
by December from 4.75 percent.  “One has to respect the collective thought process of the
market and the market seems to be absolutely convinced an easing
cycle is coming,” said Gavin Stacey, head of research for
Australia at  Barclays Capital  in Sydney. Commonwealth Bank “has
been able to offer this rate for the simple reason that swap
rates have priced in Armageddon.”  Australian government bond yields dropped this week to the
lowest since 2009 relative to the RBA cash rate as the nation’s
stocks and currency were among the hardest hit globally by
reports pointing to a worldwide slowdown. The nation’s four
biggest banks, which account for about 87 percent of home loans,
are seeking to lock in borrowers as demand for housing credit
slumps to the weakest in more than three decades.  The yield on two-year  government bonds  tumbled to 3.40
percent yesterday, down 152 basis points this year in the
biggest drop among developed markets, Bloomberg data show. The
Australian dollar slumped more than 7 percent this month and
touched 99.28 U.S. cents yesterday, compared with a post-float
high of $1.1081 reached July 27. The S&P/ASX 200 Index has
plunged 8.8 percent this month, compared with the  MSCI World (MXWO) 
Index’s 13 percent slide.  Risks Rising  The average cost to insure the bonds of Australia’s big
four banks climbed to 147.5 basis points on Aug. 8, from 125.4
on July 29, CMA prices show. The cost for six of the biggest U.S.
lenders jumped 69.2 basis points to 210.9, according to figures
from CMA, a data provider which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in privately negotiated
markets.  Australian banks are cutting rates on fixed loans -- which
made up just 6.5 percent of financings for dwellings in June
according to a government report yesterday -- as a way to
bolster market share, said Brett Le Mesurier, an analyst at BBY
Ltd. in Sydney.  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  yesterday said
third-quarter profit rose 27 percent after the country’s biggest
business lender extended its share of the mortgage market by
scrapping fees and undercutting loan rates.  Market Share  “They’re passing on the reduction in their underlying
costs of funding,” Le Mesurier said. “Commonwealth Bank has
been losing market share, primarily to NAB. This will help
reverse the situation. It’s a good headline grabber and gets
everyone talking about them.”  Commonwealth Bank of Australia’s fixed rates for one- to
five-year loans will range from 6.59 percent to 6.99 percent,
down from the previous range of 6.84 percent to 7.59 percent,
the Sydney-based bank said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
That was its biggest cut to the five-year rate since December
2008.  ANZ, NAB  Westpac lowered the interest rate on its three-year fixed-
rate home loan 20 basis points to 6.79 percent.  “Fixed rates are always under review,” Stephen Ries, a
spokesman for ANZ Bank, said by phone. Meaghan Telford, a
spokeswoman for National Australia Bank, didn’t return a
voicemail seeking comment on the bank’s fixed rates.  Australian gauges of funding costs are the lowest in more
than a year, giving lenders scope to cut home-loan rates
independently of the central bank as competition intensifies and
demand for credit stalls. The rate banks pay to borrow from each
other for six months dropped to 4.50 percent yesterday, down
from this year’s high of 5.22 percent on May 9.  Slumping  consumer spending , which makes up more than half
of gross domestic product, will force the RBA to cut  interest
rates  four times by the end of 2012, Westpac Chief Economist
 Bill Evans  forecast July 15, breaking ranks with other market
economists who at the time were all forecasting rates would
either remain on hold or increase.  Rates ‘Too High’  The RBA will cut rates by 100 basis points between December
and the end of 2012 as borrowing costs “are too high in
Australia given the state of the non-mining sectors of the
domestic economy,” Evans said. He predicted the  unemployment
rate  may rise to as high as 5.75 percent next year from 4.9
percent in June.  That contrasts with expectations that the RBA will raise
its rate to 5 percent in the first quarter of next year,
according to the median estimate of 22 economists surveyed
yesterday by Bloomberg News. Evans was the only analyst to
forecast rate cuts.  Asian stocks sank yesterday, extending a two-week rout that
has erased $7.8 trillion in global equity values, and oil
tumbled below $80 a barrel on concern the loss of the U.S.’s AAA
rating will exacerbate a slowing global recovery.  The three-year Australian rate to swap floating interest
charges for fixed payments has fallen to as little as 3.96
percent, the lowest since February 2009 relative to the central
bank’s cash rate.  Central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  last week kept the
benchmark interest rate unchanged, saying that while the RBA
board considered boosting borrowing costs, it was prudent to
hold off because of a clouded global economic outlook.  “The board remains concerned about the medium-term outlook
for inflation,” Stevens said in a statement accompanying the
decision on Aug. 2.  Nigel Stapledon, a lecturer at the Australian School of
Business, which is part of the University of New South Wales in
Sydney, said the banks are following the market in cutting their
fixed home-loan rates.  Time to Borrow?  “It doesn’t mean they’re right,” said Stapledon, a former
chief economist at Westpac. “In six months’ time, everything
could look quite positive, despite all this turmoil at the
moment. So if you think the  Reserve Bank ’s caution last week in
still alluding to rate rises is more correct, then fixed rates
look pretty good.”  Stevens cut the cash rate to 3 percent from 7.25 percent
between September 2008 and April 2009, a record series of
reductions, to counter a global credit freeze that followed the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. He then raised rates
seven times beginning October 2009.  Commonwealth Bank and its rivals attracted the ire of
Treasurer Wayne Swan when they raised variable mortgage rates by
more than the RBA when the central bank last increased its
benchmark in November. Commonwealth Bank led the big four
lenders as it raised mortgages 45 basis points, almost double
the RBA’s 25 basis-point rise, a move Swan called a “cynical
cash grab.”  NAB ‘Breakup’ Ads  National Australia Bank Chief Executive Officer Cameron Clyne has led an increase in competition among Australia’s
biggest banks, starting an ad campaign featuring a  breakup  with
rivals. NAB’s unaudited cash earnings in the three months ended
June 30 were about A$1.4 billion, it said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday, up from about A$1.1 billion a year ago.  Notwithstanding “the panic and chaos in world markets,
we’re very pleased with the group’s performance,” Clyne told
analysts on a call yesterday. “Whilst the world may remain
uncertain, what we’ve done is put the bank in the strongest
possible position we could possibly put it in. That puts us in
good shape to deal with whatever gets thrown at us.”  Credit to home buyers in June increased at the slowest
annual pace since 1977, when central bank data began, while
Australian property prices slid in the second quarter by 1.9
percent from a year earlier, the biggest drop in more than two
years. Home-loan approvals unexpectedly stagnated in June as
investors sought fewer properties, data yesterday showed.  “If you use history as a guide, the markets are very
convinced that the next move is down, and if it is down, it’s
going to be aggressive,” Barclays’ Stacey said. “If that’s the
case, you only have to look back at previous easing cycles. The
RBA’s easing cycles tend to be about 200 to 300 basis points.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  