-- 
Motorola Mobility ‘Completely Open’ to Using Windows

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-08-09T20:11:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/motorola-mobility-says-it-s-completely-open-to-using-windows.html
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.,
maker of the Droid smartphone, “is completely open” to using
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows software as an operating system even
as it’s focused on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android.  “We’re not leading the charge on Windows 8 but as we
become comfortable that there’s a viable ecosystem and quality
of innovation and quality of services being there, we’ll
certainly be open to it,” Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Jha
told investors today at a conference hosted by Oppenheimer & Co.
Inc. “Clearly all of our focus today is on Android.”  Jha is trying to harness the surging popularity of Android
while still making Motorola smartphones distinctive enough that
they outshine devices made by larger rivals Samsung Electronics
Co. and  HTC Corp. (2498)  that also use Android. At the same time, he’s
focusing on competing with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, which became the
world’s most popular smartphone last quarter.  Apple climbed to a 19 percent share of the global
smartphone market in the second quarter, up from 13 percent a
year earlier, according to Framingham, Massachusetts-based
researcher IDC. Samsung almost tripled its share to 16 percent
from 5.6 percent a year earlier. Motorola wasn’t among the top
five.  Nokia Oyj’s share fell by more than half to 16 percent from
37 percent a year earlier. The Finnish company is rebuilding its
business around Windows, the only major smartphone maker focused
on Windows at present, to try and regain market share.  Europe Expansion  “I would have to consider” Windows, if the operating
system became a credible option on favorable terms to Motorola
Mobility, Jha said.  Motorola’s biggest priority is consolidating its base of
customers in the U.S., Jha said. The second focus is to expand
in  Europe  and get a broader range of phones into key markets
such as  Germany ,  France  and the U.K., he said.  The company last month forecast profit for this quarter and
the full year that trailed analysts’ estimates after it delayed
the release of its new Bionic phone and cut the price on its
Xoom tablet.  Motorola Mobility, based in Libertyville,  Illinois , rose
$1.59 or 7.4 percent, to $23.12 at 4:02 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The stock has declined 21 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  