-- 
Paetec Shareholder Sues Calling $891 Million Windstream Offer Inadequate

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-09T14:29:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/paetec-shareholder-sues-calling-891-million-windstream-offer-inadequate.html
Paetec Holding Corp., a provider of
telephone and Internet access to medium and large businesses,
was sued by a shareholder who claims  Windstream Corp. (WIN) ’s offer to
acquire the company for about $891 million is inadequate.  Both the value of the proposed deal and the process by
which Paetec directors seek to consummate the transaction are
unfair to shareholders in light of the company’s own acquisition
strategy, lawyers for David Mattucci said yesterday in a
complaint in  Delaware  Chancery Court.  Mattucci, seeking to represent all Paetec shareholders,
asked for a court order barring the deal.  “Neither Paetec’s management, nor its board, has fully
explained why the company, or its current management, needs to
abandon their deliberately conceived acquisition strategy for a
meager short-term profit,” Mattucci said in the complaint.  Paetec, based in Fairport,  New York , announced Aug. 1 that
investors would get 0.46 Windstream shares for each share they
owned. That’s about $5.62 a share, or 27 percent more than
Paetec’s July 29 closing price of $4.42 on the Nasdaq Stock
Market. Windstream will also assume or refinance $1.4 billion of
debt.  Windstream, based in  Little Rock , Arkansas, said the deal
would allow it to focus on business and broadband services while
boosting revenue and reducing costs. The combination will cut
operating expenses by about $100 million a year and  capital
expenditures  by $10 million, the company said.  Chris Muller, a spokesman for Paetec, declined to comment
on the complaint.  “It’s our policy not to comment on pending litigation,”
Muller said today in a phone interview.  The case is Mattucci v.  Paetec Holding Corp. (PAET) , 6761,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  