-- 
Pagani $1.2 Million Car to Debut in U.S. With Less Delay

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-08-09T17:04:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/pagani-1-2-million-car-to-debut-in-u-s-with-less-delay-1-.html
Pagani Automobili SpA, the Italian
supercar maker, plans to debut its 825,000 euro ($1.2 million)
Huayra gull-wing coupe in the U.S. by 2013, a shorter delay
caused by airbag requirements than it previously predicted.  The lag will be about a year, instead of the three years
that the company estimated when it asked the U.S. National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration to waive a requirement to
install an advanced airbag system, according to Pagani Managing
Director Francesco Zappacosta. The carmaker anticipated the
agency’s denial of its waiver request and sped up development of
the airbag system, he said.  “We’d expected the possibility of a negative outcome, so
that’s why the delay isn’t as long as it might have been,”
Zappacosta said in a telephone interview. “We’re really looking
at an extra year.” The company plans to sell the Huayra in the
U.S. in late 2012 or early 2013, he said.  NHTSA last week denied Pagani’s request for an exemption
from the 11-year-old U.S. mandate to install air bags with
sensors that adjust deployment force based on the size of
occupants. The company has said that developing an advanced air-
bag program would cost it 4 million euros.  The costs come from crash tests required for the air bags
and for the supplier,  Robert Bosch GmbH , to develop deployment
algorithms, Zappacosta said.  “It does have an additional number of crash tests involved
for the dual-stage involved, which is obviously a cost
especially for someone like us who makes few cars and they’re
expensive,” he said.  Pagani plans to sell five to eight cars a year in the U.S.,
Zappacosta said. The company has taken more than 60 orders
internationally and is now accepting U.S. orders, he said. The
car will be legal to drive on the road in all 50 states and will
pass California emissions requirements, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  