-- 
Citigroup’s Pandit Tells Managers Lender Has Changed Since Credit Crisis

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-08-09T21:01:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/pandit-tells-citigroup-executives-lender-has-changed-since-credit-crisis.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chief Executive
OfficerVikram Pandit said the bank has “unparalleled
resources” to withstand the current turmoil and that the
company is now “fundamentally different” than it was during
the financial crisis.  “Although the decline is difficult to watch and naturally
reminds all of us of what happened several years ago, there is
little similarity between now and then in both drivers and
implications,” Pandit said in a voice-mail he left for
Citigroup executives before markets opened this morning.  Citigroup shares advanced $3.87, or 14 percent, to $31.82
as of 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading,
the most in more than two years. They plunged 16 percent
yesterday after  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the federal
government from AAA, casting doubt on financial firms that rely
on direct or implied U.S. backing. The shares have been
pressured by the European debt crisis and concern that another
U.S. recession is imminent.  “None of us know what the economic outlook will be, but we
do know that today we are prepared to withstand whatever the
future may bring,” Pandit said, adding that the bank still
intends to return capital to shareholders next year.  Under Pandit, who became CEO in December 2007,  New York- 
based Citigroup took a $45 billion bailout in 2008 and posted
losses of $29.3 billion for 2008 and 2009 combined. The bank
paid back the bailout money to taxpayers last year along with a
profit of about $12 billion.  Reducing Risk  “We have been profitable for the past six quarters and are
making investments so we can grow responsibly in every region
and across business lines. We have de-risked our balance sheet
significantly,” Pandit said in the voice-mail. “These actions
have contributed to the unquestionable financial strength Citi
has built over the past several years.”  Bloomberg News obtained a transcript of the call, the
accuracy of which was confirmed by  Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman
for the bank.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T.
Moynihan  also told employees in a memo that the bank was in a
stable position. Shares in the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
lender plummeted 20 percent yesterday, then rebounded 17 percent
today.  “The most important point to keep in mind is that our
company remains financially strong -- in particular, much
stronger than we were either during or coming out of the
economic downturn of 2008-9,” Moynihan wrote in a memo dated
yesterday. “Most of the factors driving market volatility are
beyond our control. But for matters within our control, we are
taking action.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  