-- 
Pennsylvania’s Muni Oversight Law Falls Short as Workers Doubt Paychecks

-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 
2011-08-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/pennsylvania-s-muni-oversight-law-falls-short-as-workers-doubt-paychecks.html
In Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania ’s
capital, drivers navigate past sinkholes that won’t get filled.
By next month, city officials may not have money to fuel
emergency vehicles, or even issue paychecks.  The fiscal crisis underscores the shortcomings of
Pennsylvania’s municipal-oversight law, even as states including
Rhode Island and Michigan have strengthened theirs.
Pennsylvania’s aid program was established in 1987 after local
tax revenue collapsed along with the  steel industry . Harrisburg
was designated a distressed city in December, after missing bond
payments it guaranteed on an incinerator project.  The capital joined cities including Pittsburgh and Reading
in the state’s Act 47 program, which helps develop financial-
recovery plans. Even with state intervention, municipalities are
unable to void labor contracts and pension benefits that are
driving up their costs, said James J. Holman, a bankruptcy
attorney at Duane Morris LLP in Philadelphia. Eleven cities have
remained in Act 47 for at least a decade.  “On pensions and union benefits, these have been a
festering problem for many years, and are coming into play
now,” Holman said. “Unless there’s some massive resuscitation
of the employment market, or of real estate prices, these
problems will just get worse.”  Harrisburg’s City Council in July rejected a recovery plan
from state consultants, the first time an Act 47 proposal was
spurned. Mayor  Linda Thompson  will review her alternative plan
with the council today. It must pass a blueprint by Sept. 6 or
risk losing aid, said C. Alan Walker, the state’s secretary of
community and economic development. The city, which has weighed
bankruptcy, would also lose funds if it seeks court protection
before July 2012, under a state law enacted in June.  Rhode Island, Michigan  Lawmakers in Rhode Island and Michigan have taken steps to
improve their rules governing distressed cities, while proposals
have been made in Indiana and  California .  In Michigan, Governor  Rick Snyder  signed a measure in March
that empowers state-appointed financial managers to change or
terminate employee contracts. Two of the state’s four emergency
managers have already used the law.  On July 29, Roy Roberts, the emergency manager for Detroit
Public Schools,  announced  a 10 percent cut in wages and 20
percent contribution to health benefits to save $81.8 million.  Impasse Ends  Michael Stampfler, emergency manager for the city of
Pontiac, in June overrode objections of an 11-member dispatcher
union that was blocking closure of the city police department
and the transfer of services to a county sheriff’s office, said
Caleb Buhs, a spokesman for the state treasury department.  “They had reached an impasse, and this was the only course
of action to achieve these savings” of $2 million a year, Buhs
said.  Emergency managers were first established in 1990, and the
current economic climate “warranted some change, to be more
aggressive,” Buhs said.  Rhode Island  has also reacted to crises in its
municipalities, specifically Central Falls. As the state’s
poorest city contemplated bankruptcy, the legislature passed a
law in June giving general-obligation debt holders priority on
payments in a municipal reorganization. Central Falls,
overwhelmed by its pension obligations, sought court protection
Aug. 1.  Harrisburg, the 26th city to enter Act 47, wouldn’t be in
its situation if the oversight program was stronger, said state
Senator Jeffrey E. Piccola of Susquehanna Township in Dauphin
County.  No Teeth  Piccola crafted legislation, passed by his chamber in June,
that would force cities to implement a state recovery plan. He
said he expects hearings on further changes to the program when
lawmakers reconvene in September.  “Act 47 really doesn’t have any teeth,” Piccola said.
“It’s more like guidance and recommendations to our municipal
governments on how to get out of their fiscal stress.”  Harrisburg’s crisis stems from an overhaul and expansion of
an incinerator whose debt it guaranteed that serves the city and
nearby communities, and resulted in a burden five times its
general-fund budget. The community of 49,500, where about a
third live below the poverty level, is also dealing with
declining  tax revenue .  With incinerator fees insufficient to cover the bonds,
Harrisburg was next in line to pay them. The city skipped
payments, which then fell to its home county, Dauphin County, or
bond insurer Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. to cover.
Harrisburg owes $310 million on the debt and related fees and
penalties, according to state-appointed consultants.  Cash Crunch  The consultants recommended the city sell or lease the
incinerator and parking system, a plan that was rejected by a
majority of council members. Thompson’s alternative hews closely
to the renounced plan, except it asks the county, state and
Assured Guaranty to fully retire the debt, estimated at $26
million, that proceeds from the sale and lease wouldn’t cover.  Harrisburg is expected to run out of money in September,
the Act 47 consultants said, throwing into question whether it
can pay its workers and make $3.3 million in general-obligation
bond payments that month. The city is only filling 14 out of 25
sinkholes, and is hoping it can shift money in its budget to
cover fuel costs for emergency vehicles, according to Robert
Philbin, a spokesman for Thompson.  Though Act 47 has helped stabilize communities, there are
problems beyond its control, such as guaranteed labor benefits,
said Fred Reddig, executive director of the Governor’s Center
for Local Government Services.  Program Restraints  “Is it the cure-all for municipal ailments? No,” Reddig
said in a telephone interview. “It doesn’t have the ability
because of some of the constraints it operates under.”  The oversight laws haven’t changed much since 1987, said
 David Miller , a  professor  at the  University of Pittsburgh ’s
Graduate School of Public and International Affairs who has
helped develop Act 47 recovery plans.  Mayors, already dealing with an “antiquated” tax base,
are frustrated by their rising personnel expenses, said John A.
Garner Jr., executive director of the Harrisburg-based
 Pennsylvania League of Cities and Municipalities .  “When you can’t control your pension and contract costs,
you’re digging a hole every year,” he said. Gardner said he
expects six more Pennsylvania cities to announce fiscal distress
over the next five to 10 years, without saying which.  The actions in Rhode Island and Michigan show that states
want to isolate municipal problems and reassure bondholders,
said Howard Cure, director of municipal research for Evercore
Wealth Management LLC in  New York .  ‘Stop That Contagion’  “States are trying to stop that contagion and try to give
investors comfort that state intervention is going to take
place,” Cure said.  Pennsylvania, though, is unlikely to adopt an initiative
like  Michigan ’s emergency-manager measure because it has a
“long tradition of local-government sovereignty,” said Gerald
Cross, executive director of the  Pennsylvania Economy League,
Central Division , a nonprofit public-policy organization in
Wilkes-Barre that is part of the consulting team on Harrisburg’s
recovery plan.  “They really want councils to make the decisions,” Cross
said. “We don’t believe in imposing from above.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  