-- 
Penn Favored to Win Third Straight Ivy League Football Title in Media Poll

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-08-09T16:55:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/penn-favored-to-win-third-straight-ivy-league-football-title-in-media-poll.html
The  University of Pennsylvania  is
favored to win its third consecutive  Ivy League  title, according
to a preseason college football poll of media representatives
who regularly cover the eight-team conference.  The Philadelphia university received 12 of the 17 first-
place votes and 129 total points in the balloting, which was
released today on the league’s website.  Harvard University  in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , is second with 118 points, followed by
 Yale University  in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , with 95.  The Quakers, who have competed since 1876, haven’t lost a
league game in more than two years, with consecutive 7-0
seasons. Penn’s 15-game conference winning streak is the third
longest in the National Collegiate Athletic Conference league’s
55-year history, trailing streaks of 17 and 20, set by the same
school.  “We know the challenges will be there, we know the league
will be very improved,” Penn coach Al Bagnoli said today on a
conference call. “Our kids are focused, they’re anxious, and I
think they’re going in with a pretty good attitude.”  Penn (9-1 overall, 7-0  Ivy League ) won the Ivy title last
year with the league’s best defense and highest-scoring offense.
The Quakers return junior running backs Jeff Jack and Brandon
Colavita, who led the team to a league-high 243.6 yards rushing
per game last year. Quarterback Billy Ragone, who was sixth in
the league in passing and fifth in rushing as a sophomore last
season, also returns.  Strong Defense  The Penn defense, led by linebacker Erik Rask, had a
league-high 31 sacks last season and allowed 14.5 points per
game, lowest among the conference’s eight teams. The Quakers
allowed 73.1 yards rushing last season, the only Ivy League
school to hold opponents under a 100-yard average.  “They were the best defensive team in the league,”
Harvard coach Tim Murphy told reporters. “The other thing is
they did a great job running the football and understanding
their strengths. You would think that with their quarterback
becoming a more veteran guy, they should be able to open up the
offense, be a little bit more balanced, which I think is going
to make it tougher for everybody.”  Harvard (7-3, 5-2) tied with Yale (7-3, 5-2) for second
place last season. The Crimson graduated running back Gino
Gordon, who finished second in the conference in rushing last
season and was co-winner of league’s Player of the Year award.
Yale quarterback Patrick Witt led the conference with a 60.4
rating and 246.2 yards passing per game as a junior in 2010.  Quarterbacks Return  All eight teams are returning their starting quarterbacks,
creating a talented group that Murphy said he hasn’t seen in his
18 years coaching in the conference.  The experience at that
position has created an unprecedented competitive equality,
 Brown University  coach Phil Estes said.  “To pick who the All-Ivy quarterback is going to be is a
huge toss-up between the eight teams,” Estes said. “There is a
lot of parity, I think this year more than any other time, but
you have to start with Penn.”  Penn’s 808 victories rank 10th in college football history.
The team also plays in the country’s oldest stadium, Franklin
Field, which opened in 1895.  Penn’s 2010 title was the eighth championship for Bagnoli,
the most of any current Ivy League coach. Penn’s 15 Ivy League
titles trail only  Dartmouth College ’s 17 for most in conference
history. The Big Green last won a championship in 1996, and
haven’t had a winning conference record since 2003.  No Distraction  Bagnoli said he didn’t want the team’s recent success to
become a distraction as it tries to become the first the win
three straight Ivy titles since Dartmouth in 1990-92.  “You don’t want to make it seem like it’s a burden that’s
on your back every play,” he said. “It’s a different cast, we
approach it differently. We want to put the emphasis on knowing
that we’re going to take everybody’s best shot, and being
prepared to do that.”  Last month, the Ivy League announced it was limiting full-
contact practices and adding suspensions for illegal hits in an
attempt to reduce head injuries. The conference schedule begins
on Sept. 23, when Harvard hosts Brown. The two schools shared
the title in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 