-- 
Pentagon Protected From ‘Open-Ended’ F-35 Overruns, Lynn Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-08-09T19:14:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/pentagon-protected-from-open-ended-f-35-overruns-lynn-says.html
The Pentagon is protecting itself
from “open-ended” cost overruns on  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s
F-35 jet, such as the $918 million estimated on the first three
production contracts, Deputy Defense Secretary William Lynn told
lawmakers last month.  The fourth production contract that’s been signed, a fifth
that’s in negotiations and future orders “will include
equitable sharing arrangements, as well as a ceiling price so as
to cap the government’s liability” Lynn wrote July 25 to
members of the Senate Armed Services Committee.  “The Department intends to prevent excessive overruns by
continuing” the fourth contract’s approach and “aggressively
applying” an analysis in the next agreement of what the jets
“should cost,” Lynn wrote.  “This will provide a maximum limit on the Department’s
liability for cost growth, increase the contractor’s incentive
to control costs and ensure” the fifth production contract
results in the “lowest price achievable,” Lynn said.  The Pentagon is “closely monitoring and concerned about
cost growth in the program,” including a preliminary $1
trillion for long-term sustainment of the jets that’s
“unacceptable and unaffordable,” Lynn wrote the committee
chairman, Democrat  Carl Levin  of  Michigan , and the panel’s top
Republican,  John McCain  of  Arizona . Bloomberg News first
reported the estimate in April.  Overruns Shared  The lawmakers wrote Defense Secretary Leon Panetta last
month expressing concern with cost overruns on the first 28
F-35s. Lockheed and  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  will pay as much
as $283 million to defray about one-third of the overrun while
the government covers the rest, the program office and company
said.  Lynn reminded the lawmakers the fourth production contract
signed in November is the first of many future F-35 contracts
that will employ fixed-priced provisions.  Lockheed, the No. 1 defense contractor, would earn $441
million in profit if it hits cost targets set in the contract.  The Bethesda, Maryland-based company has the potential to
earn more -- or less -- depending on the eventual production
cost of the fighter jets.  The $3.9 billion Lockheed contract sets a “target cost”
of $3.46 billion for 32 aircraft plus a “target profit” for
Lockheed Martin of $440.9 million, or nearly 13 percent,
according to the Pentagon’s program office.  Lockheed and the Pentagon would share equally any savings
if the jets cost less to build than the target cost. Similarly,
they would share cost overruns up to 120 percent of that figure.
The full burden would fall on Lockheed for overruns above that.  Shifting Funds  Lynn told the lawmakers that Pentagon officials negotiating
the fifth production contract are “examining every element of
cost.”  Separately, Lynn answered questions Levin and McCain posed
about a pending Pentagon request to cover part of the overrun by
shifting, or “reprogramming,” $179 million from other programs
and $85 million in unearned Lockheed fees.  The lawmakers asked for the implications of rejecting the
request to shift funds.  Lynn said one result may be to cancel three Air Force
versions to pay for part of the overrun.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 