-- 
PG&E Names DTE Energy Chairman Earley as New Chief Executive

-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-08-09T20:59:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/pg-e-names-dte-energy-chairman-earley-as-new-chief-executive.html
PG&E Corp. (PCG) , owner of  California ’s
largest utility, named Anthony Earley as chief executive
officer, turning to an outsider for the first time in its 106-
year history after a fatal pipeline blast last year.  Earley, the 62-year-old executive chairman at  DTE Energy
Co. (DTE) , will take over at PG&E on Sept. 13, the San Francisco-based
company said in a statement yesterday. The start date is about a
year after a PG&E natural-gas pipeline exploded in San Bruno,
California, killing eight people and destroying 38 homes in the
San Francisco suburb.  Earley, who’s been an executive at Detroit-based DTE for
more than 17 years, takes the top job at PG&E as it confronts
regulatory scrutiny for its pipeline safety, a criminal probe
related to the San Bruno blast and customer backlash from new
“smart meter” initiatives to track electricity usage. The
company also may have to pay more than $1 billion to upgrade its
network and perform safety tests, one of the reasons PG&E
reduced its profit forecast this year by about 5 percent.  “He brings experience, he brings credibility, he brings a
track record and he’s well-liked by investors,” said Andrew Levi, an analyst for Caris & Co. in New York who rates PG&E
“buy” and doesn’t own the shares. “PG&E is really looking for
somebody to restore credibility, restore investor confidence,
restore  consumer confidence  and restore regulator confidence.”  Earley’s Salary  Earley will be paid $4.26 million for the balance of this
year, including a one-time bonus of $1.5 million subject to
repayment if he doesn’t stay in the job three years, PG&E said
today in a filing. His 2010 pay at DTE totaled $8.5 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Earley, who will also be chairman and president at PG&E,
will succeed Peter A. Darbee, 58, who resigned in April, telling
the board the company needed new leadership after a
“challenging year.” It’s the first time PG&E has chosen a
leader from outside the organization, the company said in the
statement.  PG&E rose 28 cents to $39.92 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have 12 buy and eight
hold ratings from analysts. PG&E has fallen 17 percent this
year, making it the second-worst performer of the 33 companies
on the Standard and Poor’s Utilities Index.  Company in Crisis  Earley joined DTE as president of its electric utility in
1994. He was named CEO of DTE in 1998, leading the owner of
 Michigan ’s largest utility until September 2010. He serves on
the board of  Ford Motor Co. (F) , Masco Corp. and the  Nuclear Energy
Institute , a Washington-based industry lobbying group.  A former U.S. naval officer, Earley has experience guiding
a company in crisis, PG&E said. He steered DTE through the
largest blackout in U.S. history in 2003, when a  power outage  at
an Ohio utility triggered cascading blackouts in Michigan and
six more states.  His experience also includes operating a utility in a
recession. Michigan’s unemployment rate has exceeded 10 percent
since 2008 and touched 14 percent a year ago.  Detroit ’s
metropolitan area population fell by 156,307, or 3.5 percent, in
the decade ending last year, according to the U.S. Census
Bureau.  DTE gained 14 percent while Earley was CEO, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Earley ran both DTE’s electric
utility, which serves about 2.1 million customers in the Detroit
metro area, and the gas utility, which serves 1.2 million
customers.  ‘Engineer by Training’  “You’ve got somebody who is an engineer by training and
has experience running the operations of a gas delivery
company,”  Hugh Wynne , an analyst at Sanford Bernstein & Co. in
 New York , said in a telephone interview. “They’ve gone for a
safe bet in terms of engineering background and years of
experience in the industry, in contrast to Darbee, who came from
a finance and telecom background.”  DTE President and CEO Gerard Anderson will become chairman
of the company after Earley’s Sept. 12 departure, according to a
separate statement yesterday.  PG&E board member Lee Cox has served as interim chairman
and CEO since Darbee resigned and will continue in that role
until Earley arrives.  “Utility CEOs rarely stay in the job past their mid-60s,”
Tim O’Brien, who manages more than $1 billion at Crow Point
Partners in Scituate,  Massachusetts , including PG&E shares, said
in an e-mail today. “One important challenge he faces over the
next few years is to find and prepare his successor.”  PG&E froze its dividend this year because of rising costs
associated with its pipelines. The utility, which distributes
gas to 4.3 million customers, said on Aug. 4 it may spend as
much as $550 million this year on gas-pipeline inspections,
improvements and other safety work.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 