-- 
PG&E Said to Name DTE’s Anthony Earley as Chief Executive

-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k ,   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-08-09T02:54:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/pg-e-said-to-name-dte-s-anthony-earley-as-chief-executive-1-.html
PG&E Corp. (PCG) , owner of California’s
largest utility, will name  DTE Energy Co. (DTE)  Executive Chairman
Anthony Earley as its new chief executive officer, according to
three people with knowledge of the selection.  Earley, 62, who stepped down as chief executive officer of
Detroit-based DTE Energy last year, may be named as PG&E’s CEO
as soon as tomorrow, said the people, who declined to be named
because the negotiations are private.  PG&E spokeswoman Beth Foley said she was not immediately
able to comment. DTE Energy spokesman Scott Simons declined to
comment.  Earley will succeed Peter A. Darbee, 58, who resigned in
April as PG&E’s chairman, CEO and president following the
September explosion of a company pipeline that killed eight
people and destroyed 38 homes in San Bruno,  California , a San
Francisco suburb.  Earley will be taking the top job at a time when PG&E is
confronting rising scrutiny from regulators over its pipeline
safety, a criminal probe related to the San Bruno blast, and a
customer backlash from new “smart meter” initiatives to track
electricity usage. The company also may have to pay more than $1
billion to upgrade its network and perform safety tests, one of
the reasons PG&E peeled back its profit forecast this year by
about 5 percent.  PG&E has fallen 17.1 percent this year, making it the
second-worst performer of the 33-member Standard and Poor’s
Utilities Index.  PG&E froze its dividend this year because of rising costs
associated with its pipelines. The utility, which distributes
gas to 4.3 million customers, said on Aug. 4 it may spend as
much as $550 million this year on gas-pipeline inspections,
improvements and other safety work.  The  U.S. Department of Justice , the state of California and
local officials have opened a criminal investigation into the
incident, PG&E said in June.  In June, an independent panel faulted PG&E’s management and
pipeline-safety program for multiple weaknesses that contributed
to the San Bruno explosion.  The utility’s effort to install wireless digital meters to
remotely track energy use has been criticized by some customers
and consumer groups. The company announced on May 2 it will
replace about 1,600 of 2 million meters because of defects, and
offer customers refunds and credits.  Darbee is a former telecommunications executive who joined
the company in 1999 as chief financial officer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Aaron Sheldrick at 
 asheldrick@bloomberg.net  