-- 
Sinking Real Means Emerging-Market Currency Swings Rising From 10-Year Low

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-08-09T22:40:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/plunging-real-sends-emerging-currency-swings-up-from-10-year-low-on-growth.html
Emerging-market currencies that three
weeks ago showed the least volatility in a decade are dropping
as traders bet slower expansion and an end to interest rate
increases may weaken exchange rates from  Sao Paulo  to Moscow.  Implied volatility on three-month options on developing-
nation currencies climbed to 13.1 percent from 8.9 percent on
July 20, when it was within 30 basis points of the lowest level
since March 2001 versus the Group of Seven nations, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. All 25 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg are down this month, excluding China’s yuan and the
Czech koruna, as debt crises in Europe and the U.S. and falling
commodities change the outlook for economic growth, inflation
and interest rates.  “The market is currently pricing in a very different
growth and macro-backdrop than it expected three months ago,”
said Mike Moran, a senior currency strategist at Standard
Chartered Bank in  New York . “This process of re-profiling the
global assumptions is going to keep the pressure on emerging-
market foreign exchange in particular in the near term.”  Traders are the most bearish on the Brazilian real since
November after the currency posted its biggest decline in more
than a year yesterday. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its estimate
for the Russian ruble and the Polish zloty, Westpac Banking
Corp. lowered its forecast for the South African rand and
 Barclays Capital  said it expects the Turkish lira, down 12.5
percent against the dollar in 2011, to approach a record low in
a year.  Rating Downgrade  Developing-nation currencies extended declines yesterday
after  Standard & Poor’s  reduced America’s AAA rating, fueling
concern the economic slowdown will worsen. Stocks sank around
the world, while  U.S. Treasuries  rallied and gold surged to a
record. Spanish and Italian bonds rose after the  European
Central Bank  bought the debt to help stem the spread of the
region’s government-debt crisis.  Emerging market currencies recouped some losses today after
the  Federal Reserve  vowed to keep  interest rates  near zero
through mid-2013. The Mexican peso rallied 2.3 percent 12.0391
per dollar after tumbling as much as 3.5 percent earlier. The
rand gained 1.2 percent to 7.1177 per dollar, erasing an earlier
loss of 5.4 percent.  Russia’s currency was the worst performer today, falling
2.5 percent against a basket of euros and dollars monitored by
the central bank, according to BNP Paribas SA in an e-mailed
report.  In  Brazil , where the interest-rate gap compared with near-
zero borrowing costs in the U.S. and  Japan  helped lure foreign
capital and make the real the best-performing emerging-market
currency since the end of 2008, traders are abandoning forecasts
for more rate increases.  Rate Cut  Yields on Brazil’s interest-rate futures indicated that
policy makers will cut the benchmark interest rate from 12.5
percent by December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. As
recently as July 15, futures showed the central bank would raise
borrowing costs this month.  In Russia, interest-rate forwards shows a possibility of 15
basis points, or 0.15 of a percentage point, of rate increases
in the next three months, yesterday, the least since February
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Traders in  India 
also are tearing up predictions for an interest-rate increase as
soon as next month as the government says lower commodity prices
may cut inflation.  The Turkish central bank unexpectedly cut its benchmark
interest rate a half percentage point to a record low of 5.75
percent following an emergency meeting on Aug. 4 in a bid to
“reduce the risk of a domestic recession.” The central bank
also sold dollars to support the currency, the worst-performing
in major emerging markets this year. The central bank has
lowered its benchmark repo rate to by 125 basis points since
November to 5.75 percent.  ‘Small Economies’  “These are still small economies, and global flows in were
very big and global flows out can be very big as well,” Timothy Ash, the London-based head of emerging-market strategy at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in a phone interview on Aug. 8.  The ruble led declines this month, depreciating 7.6 percent
against the dollar to a six-month low. The South African rand
weakened 5.9 percent while the Mexican peso dropped to the
weakest level since September. The Turkish lira extended its
losses against the dollar since November to 18.8 percent.  Slower global growth threatens expansion in developing
nations. Turkey, which needs foreign investors to finance its
record annual current account deficit of $68 billion, cut
interest rates while inflation rose above its target to protect
the economy from weakening. Russia relies on  Europe  to buy about
half of its exports while Mexico, the second-largest economy in
 Latin America , depends on the U.S. to consume 80 percent of its
exports as domestic demand stagnates.  ‘Really Threatened’  “Even though emerging-market currencies have very
legitimate on-going good stories behind them, almost all of them
do depend on global demand and global financial flows,”  Eric Fine , a portfolio manager in New York who helps Van Eck
Associates Corp. oversee $3 billion in emerging-market assets,
said in a telephone interview. “That may be really threatened
by the growth slowdown.”  Traders expect emerging-market currencies to fluctuate an
annualized 13.1 percent, according to the JPMorgan Emerging
Market  Volatility Index , up from 8.5 percent on July 8, which
had been the lowest level since 2008. The index contains the
Mexican peso, South Korean won, Brazilian real, Polish zloty,
Singapore and Taiwan dollars and the South African rand.  Expected emerging-market volatility was 2.7 percentage
points lower than that indicated for rich nations by JPMorgan’s
G7 Volatility Index on July 20, compared with 3 percentage
points in March, the biggest difference in 10 years. The
difference fell to 1.1 percentage point today, when the G7
Volatility Index was at 14.  Lower Debt  JPMorgan’s Emerging Markets Currency Index has risen 25
percent from March 2009 until yesterday, as developing countries
outgrew the industrialized world and cut their debt levels.  Options show traders expect the real to fluctuate an
annualized 16.1 percent over the next three months, the most
since July 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
surpassed the similar gauge for the euro versus the dollar for
the first time since May.  The Brazilian government has spent most of the year trying
to prevent the real from appreciating, including new tax
measures. While Brazil isn’t “immune” from a decline in the
global economy, it has the strength to resist a slump in the
U.S. and Europe, Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff told
reporters yesterday.  Growth Outlook  Emerging-market countries will grow by at least 6.5 percent
a year over the next six years, compared with expansions of no
more than 2.5 percent for G-7 nations,  International Monetary
Fund  forecasts show. Developing nations’ share of global gross
domestic product will surpass that of the advanced economies in
2013, in purchasing power terms,  according to the IMF .  The average government debt burden in  China , Brazil, India
and Russia, the four largest emerging economies, is 40 percent
of GDP, compared with 102 percent for developed nations,
according to IMF estimates.  “We need to differentiate between short-term selloff
versus the medium-term trend of more diversification into a
number of emerging-market assets,” said  Clyde Wardle , a
developing-nation currency strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc in
New York. “The key point is that we don’t see a systemic
spillover into emerging markets. There are good opportunities to
get into some of the markets.”  Asian currencies from the Singapore dollar to the Chinese
yuan will continue appreciating, according to Wardle.  Lira Forecast  The Turkish lira may decline to 1.8 per dollar in 12
months,  Koon Chow , a Barclays Capital emerging markets
strategist, said in e-mailed comments from  London  on Aug. 8.
London-based Barclays revised its forecast from a previous 1.6
per dollar as the current account deficit widened to about 9
percent of the size of the economy.  The premium for the rights to sell the real versus dollar
over those to buy jumped to 6 percentage points today, from 4.1
percentage points on Aug. 1, the so-called three-month risk-
reversal rate showed.  Goldman Sachs turned less bullish on the ruble and zloty
last week, predicting that the ruble will rise to 26.1 per
dollar in a year, from 29.56 per dollar, according to a note
sent to clients on Aug. 5. The New York-based bank previously
forecast an advance to 25.1 per dollar. The zloty will rise to
3.96 per euro in 12 months, from 4.10, compared with the
previous forecast of 3.93, according to Goldman.  ‘Biggest Risk’  Westpac of Sydney reduced its year-end forecast for the
rand on Aug. 5, estimating it will strengthen to 7.24 per
dollar, from 7.27, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Australia’s second-biggest lender had expected the rand to hold
at 7.2 by December.  “The biggest risk for them is the worst case scenario
where the U.S. does slip into another recession,” said  Standard
Chartered ’s Moran. If that happens, “the entire emerging-market
space could start to come under even greater pressure,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  