-- 
Ex-Point Blank Chief to Plead to Tax Charges, Lawyer Says

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-08-09T18:56:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/point-blank-ex-ceo-david-brooks-to-plead-to-tax-charges-his-lawyer-says.html
David Brooks , a founder and former
chief executive officer of military contractor  Point Blank
Solutions Inc. (PBSOQ) , will plead guilty to tax charges, his lawyer
said.  A federal jury found Brooks guilty last year of committing
a $185 million fraud and looting the company, formerly called
DHB Industries Inc., to pay for personal expenses. Three tax
counts were separated from the other charges he was convicted
of, including insider-trading, fraud and obstruction of justice.
He has asked for a new trial on those charges.  “We are channeling our efforts into the other counts,”
Brooks’s lawyer Gerald L. Shargel said in a phone interview
today.  Brooks, 56, and former Chief Operating Officer  Sandra Hatfield  were convicted last September in Central Islip,  New
York . Point Blank, which makes body armor for the military and
police, filed for  bankruptcy protection  in April 2010. Brooks
and Hatfield lied about the inventory of “Interceptor” combat
vests that were shipped to the U.S. armed forces and falsely
inflated the company’s value and their own stock, the government
said.  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch
in Brooklyn, New York, declined to comment on tomorrow’s plea
hearing.  Severed Counts  In 2009, U.S. District Judge Joanna Seybert in Central
Islip, severed from Brooks’s case one count of conspiracy to
defraud the U.S. and two counts of filing a false tax return
because they weren’t sufficiently related to the other charges,
she said.  Brooks was accused of failing to report $189,400 in
dividend and interest payments in 2003 and $762,500 in
compensation in 2004.  Brooks hasn’t been sentenced yet. He faces as long as 25
years in prison on the most serious counts of  securities fraud ,
conspiracy to commit securities fraud and insider trading.  Brooks earned $185 million in the scheme while Hatfield
earned $5 million, according to prosecutors. Brooks spent
company funds “lavishly” on perks and expenses for himself and
his family, including purchases of a Bentley and a Ferrari and
grooming of 100 purebred trotting horses, Assistant U.S.
Attorney Richard Lunger told jurors in his opening statement at
the trial in January 2010.  The scheme took place from July 2000 to July 2006,
according to the government. In July 2006, DHB moved its
headquarters from Westbury, New York, to  Pompano Beach , Florida.  Seybert, who had previously granted Brooks’s release on
$400 million bond, in January 2010 ordered him into custody
after she found that he had concealed millions of dollars in
overseas accounts.  The case is U.S. v. Brooks, 06-CR-550, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York ( Central Islip ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn federal court at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 