-- 
Polarized Electorate Suggests Obama Win in 2012: Ramesh Ponnuru

-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 
2011-08-09T00:00:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/polarized-electorate-suggests-obama-win-in-2012-ramesh-ponnuru.html
It may be hard to believe today, but in
the summer of 2004 Senator  John Kerry ’s campaign for president
looked formidable.  President  George W. Bush ’s approval rating had been falling
more or less continuously since its post-Sept. 11 highs, and was
below 50 percent the week of July 26, 2004, when the Democratic
convention was held in  Boston . Democratic strategist Stanley Greenberg told a group of liberal activists that week that the
American public had made up its mind about Bush, negatively, and
that all Kerry had to do was to establish himself as an
acceptable alternative. Many Democrats felt similarly.  Greenberg’s theory was that the 2004 election was going to be
a referendum on Bush’s performance. Likewise, a lot of
Republicans today say they believe that the 2012 election will
be a referendum on President  Barack Obama ’s record.  But Greenberg was wrong in 2004, and the Republicans are
probably wrong about 2012.  The theory isn’t crazy, mind you. Traditionally, when an
incumbent president runs for re-election, the race is a
referendum on his record. The classic example is the Jimmy Carter-Ronald Reagan match of 1980. Reagan asked Americans
whether they were better off than they had been four years
earlier. His challenge was to persuade middle-of-the-road voters
that he was not the scary, warmongering, Social Security-
slashing, ignorant nut that liberals claimed. Once he passed
that test, he had won the election. The public didn’t so much
choose Reagan as it rejected Carter. Four years later, it
approved of Reagan’s record, and he won his own referendum.  A Strategic Insight  The strategic insight of the Bush re-election campaign in
2004 was that times had changed. The U.S. was divided 50-50
between the parties. The number of committed partisans had
increased, and the number of true swing voters -- as opposed to
voters who say they are independent but reliably vote for one
party -- had shrunk. In this newly polarized country, no
president could hope to achieve high approval ratings for very
long.  It followed, though, that a president could win re-election
even with approval ratings that would once have spelled doom. In
a 50-50 America, every presidential election was a choice
between the incumbent and the challenger and not just a
referendum on the incumbent. If voters who didn’t approve of the
incumbent could be persuaded to prefer him to the challenger,
the incumbent would win.  Better Than Alternative  That was Bush’s game plan. Republicans portrayed Kerry as an
effete liberal who would raise taxes and wouldn’t assert the
national interest. They didn’t try to persuade Americans that
Bush had been a terrific president or even that Kerry was
unpresidential. They just made the case that Bush was better
than the alternative.  When they had to contemplate a choice between Bush and
Kerry, some voters found themselves starting to approve of the
president by comparison: At the end of February 2004, when Kerry
locked up the nomination, Bush’s approval rating was at 44
percent in the RealClearPolitics  average of polls . By Election
Day, it had climbed five points.  Bush did not win in a landslide. In fact, no president has
ever won re-election with a lower percentage of the major-party
vote. But win he did. (Then, with Kerry out of the picture,
Bush’s numbers resumed falling.)  Rethinking 2008  Oddly enough, it was the next presidential race, with no
incumbent running, that looked more like a classic referendum.
Obama and the Democrats ran against Senator  John McCain  on a
platform of “no third term” for Bush. McCain, of course, tried
to make the campaign a choice, and during the late summer had
some success in defining Obama as an untested liberal.  The collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in mid-
September 2008  reframed the election  as a referendum, just as
Obama wanted it. It led voters to pay more attention to economic
conditions and less to the perceived merits of the candidates.
It put Bush, the incumbent, in the center of the action. And it
briefly moved people who usually vote Republican to rethink
their allegiance.  This time, Republicans are the ones who want a referendum.
The message they have in mind is simple, and the question they
want voters to consider is the same as in 1980: Are you better
off now than you were four years ago? Is unemployment higher or
lower? The national debt? Do you think Obama is up to the job?  Mitt Romney  kicked off his campaign by delivering a
succinct verdict: “Barack Obama has failed America.” After last
weekend, Republicans will also say: Has America’s credit
improved or deteriorated?  Obama’s Strategy  If the election is fought on those lines, then Obama will
almost certainly lose. His strategy will therefore be to make it
a choice election. He is going to want the small number of swing
voters to think: No, I’m not satisfied with how things are going
and I have my doubts about Obama, but I’m more worried about the
radicalism of the Republicans on Medicare and their fealty to
big business.  As far as anyone can tell today, perceptions of the economy
on Election Day are going to be closer to what they were in 2008
than what they were in 2004. That’s what the Republican
referendum theory has going for it. But the president’s approval
rating tells a different story. Since Obama’s honeymoon ended,
it has moved in a  fairly narrow range , never going below 44
percent and rarely going above 51 percent in the RCP average. It
doesn’t put him in cinch-to-win or sure-loser territory.  That suggests that the election is going to be a choice --
and that merely being an acceptable alternative to a failed
incumbent won’t be enough for the Republicans to win the White
House.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 