-- 
Political Leaders, Central Banks Should Stop the Stampede: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-09T00:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/political-leaders-central-banks-should-stop-the-stampede-view.html
Financial markets can create their
own dangerous dynamic, as  Warren Buffett  pointed out after
 Standard & Poor’s  downgraded U.S. debt securities on Aug. 5.
Buffett was on the mark.  The downgrade triggered panic selling around the globe on
Monday, leading to demands for more collateral from investors,
who sold still more shares to meet the margin calls. The
resulting drop in equity prices, coming on top of last week’s
more than $4 trillion plunge in global stock market value, will
probably dampen  consumer confidence  and increase the chances of
another recession.  With fear begetting more fear, and with U.S. and European
economies in a precarious state, government leaders on both
continents have only one sane path: to prevent recession and
restore faith in the financial system. This is easier said than
done, particularly in an American election year. But here’s how
we can get started.  To begin, congressional leaders in both parties should name
within days -- and not wait for the Aug. 16 deadline -- the 12
members of the supercommittee called for in the recent debt-
ceiling accord. To hasten the process, Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  of Nevada and Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell 
of Kentucky should name the Senate’s Gang of Six to the panel.
That group, composed of three Democrats and three Republicans,
proposed shaving $3.7 trillion from the national debt over 10
years, including $1 trillion in tax increases.  Broad Support  The plan, which won broad bipartisan support when it was
released in mid-July, could quickly become the supercommittee’s
recommended course with just one more vote, presumably from a
Democratic House member named to the panel. If so, the
supercommittee would more than double the 10-year, $1.5 trillion
debt-reduction package mandated by the debt-ceiling agreement.  The road map should not recommend fiscal policies that
could stunt economic growth in the short term. That means the
panel should avoid calling for immediate spending cuts or tax
increases. If anything, it should boost  government spending  over
the next two years if growth continues to be anemic or the
economy shrinks. After that, the committee should lay out in
fine detail how the U.S. can stabilize or reduce its debt load
over the next decade. The blueprint should include an overhaul
of corporate and individual taxes as well as entitlements such
as Medicare and Social Security.  Unemployment Benefits  To help stimulate the stalled economy, President  Barack Obama  and his congressional allies will insist on reauthorizing
as much as 99 weeks of unemployment benefits, an extended
coverage period due to expire at the end of this year. But with
evidence mounting that almost two years of unemployment
compensation isn’t helping people get jobs -- and with  household
debt  still hanging over consumers, especially those with homes
worth less than their mortgages -- a better option may be to
reduce the principal on underwater home loans.  One route is through  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the
mortgage-finance companies that own or guarantee most U.S.
mortgages and are in turn taxpayer-owned. The U.S. Treasury
Department could direct the companies to reduce the principal
for underwater borrowers who are paying their mortgages and
would probably stay current with such a writedown. In return,
homeowners who benefit should give up a portion of any profits
they get from selling the home, an approach called shared
appreciation.  Central Banks  With political paralysis stopping elected officials from
acting swiftly on both sides of the Atlantic, central banks have
had to step up their interventions. Most notably, the  European
Central Bank  on Aug. 8 began buying battered Italian and Spanish
 government bonds , expanding its own balance sheet and driving
down sovereign-debt yields. For the past three weeks, investors
have doubted that  Europe ’s leaders would prevent the problems of
strapped governments from infecting the entire euro area. The
ECB’s move appears to have helped for now, though it may tarnish
the bank’s reputation for independence.  In times of crisis, imperfect solutions are unavoidable.
The  Federal Reserve , having just completed its own government
bond-buying campaign, should signal after an open-market
committee meeting Tuesday that it will do more to prevent a
double-dip recession. With a bloated balance sheet, the Fed is
hobbled but not powerless. It could indicate a willingness to
buy more U.S. Treasuries, offer to keep its key  interest rate 
near zero for a specific timeframe, or pledge not to sell the
government bonds it holds for a definite time period.  On Monday afternoon, Obama tried to bring some measure of
peace to our summer of financial discontent. It was not a
particularly effective performance. Calming an anxious globe
takes more than one man, though. Given the panic that’s welling,
he could use some help.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 