-- 
London Violence Calmed by Police Reinforcement as Unrest Spreads

-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e ,   B e n   E d w a r d s   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-08-10T07:26:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/police-deployment-calms-london-riots-as-unrest-hits-manchester.html
Police prevented a fourth night of
unrest in  London  following Britain’s worst rioting since the
1980s as violence spread to northern cities including
Manchester.  London’s Metropolitan Police put 16,000 officers on duty
overnight, up from 6,000 the previous evening. A total of 770
people have been arrested in London since Aug. 6, when the
unrest began in the suburb of Tottenham, after a local black
man, Mark Duggan, was shot and killed by police who stopped his
car intending to make an arrest. The violence has seen gasoline
bombs thrown and vehicles, homes and businesses torched.  “Over the past few hours, Greater Manchester Police has
been faced with extraordinary levels of violence from groups of
criminals intent on committing widespread disorder,” Assistant
Chief Constable Garry Shewan said in a statement. “This is
nothing more than senseless violence with no absolutely no
regard for people, their property or livelihoods.”  The unrest has forced the cancellation of professional
soccer games and raised security concerns a year before London
stages the 2012  Olympic Games  as the deepest budget cuts since
World War II trim the police force.  David Cameron  will preside over a meeting of the
government’s emergency committee for a second day today at 9
a.m. The prime minister, who broke off his vacation in  Italy  as
the riots spread, recalled Parliament to meet in emergency
session tomorrow.  ‘Determined’  “I’m determined, the government is determined, that
justice will be done,” Cameron said outside his Downing Street
office yesterday. “This is criminality pure and simple, and it
has to be confronted and defeated.”  In Manchester, rioters set fire to a property in Salford,
west of the center, and Miss Selfridge, a clothing retailer in
the main shopping area, Greater Manchester Police said.
Television pictures showed looters running from the Arndale
shopping mall, store windows smashed and groups of young people
being confronted by officers in riot gear.  Manchester police said they made at least 108 arrests.
Nottinghamshire Police said they’d made 90, and Merseyside
Police, who cover Liverpool, said cars had been set on fire in
the city. West Midlands Police, who cover the city of
Birmingham, said they’d made 109 arrests overnight and opened a
murder inquiry after three men were killed in a road collision.  Disturbances Spread  In Liverpool, police closed the Smithdown Road and Lodge
Lane area last night after about 200 youths caused damage and
about 100 youths committed criminal damage to the Park Road
South area of Birkenhead with reports of vehicles being set
alight, according to a statement on Merseyside Police’s website.  London’s Metropolitan Police said they had arrested 81
people overnight, including 19 people picked up in North London
just after midnight when they were spotted standing by two vans.
A raid earlier in the evening that led to another arrest also
yielded a mobile phone with pictures of a looted shop.  BlackBerry smartphone maker  Research in Motion Ltd. (RIM)  said it
is helping police probe reports the company’s messaging service
was being used by rioters to plan the disturbances.  Though student-led protests against increases in university
tuition fees descended into unrest last year, this week’s
rioting has been the worst in London since at least 1985, when
violence broke out in Tottenham in the north of the city and
Brixton in the south after the deaths of black women during
police searches.  Insurers face a bill of “well over” 100 million pounds
($162 million), Nick Starling, director of general insurance at
the  Association of British Insurers , said in an e-mailed
statement.  The  Daily Telegraph  said it has learned that the army’s
emergency infantry battalion, known as the Spearhead Lead
Element, has been put on standby should the civil unrest worsen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ; or
Ben Edwards in London at 
 bedwards35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  