-- 
Pound Falls Against Dollar and Euro as Growth Worsens Amid Spreading Riots

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-08-09T15:34:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/pound-falls-against-dollar-and-euro-as-growth-worsens-amid-spreading-riots.html
The pound weakened against the dollar
and euro after manufacturing unexpectedly fell in June and the
trade deficit widened, and as the worst civil unrest in 30 years
added to signs the economic recovery is faltering.  Sterling declined against most of its 16 major peers
tracked by Bloomberg, losing most against the Swiss franc and
the yen. U.K. factory output declined 0.4 percent in June from
the previous month, when it rose 1.8 percent, the  Office for
National Statistics  said today in London. The median forecast of
24 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.2 percent
gain. Civil unrest that began in north London on Saturday spread
to other parts of the capital and other cities.  “The weak growth and riots are both symptomatic of an
economy with major structural issues and the wrong policy
prescriptions,” said  Stephen Gallo , head of market analysis at
Schneider Foreign Exchange. “I am a perennial pound bear until
the U.K. starts to generate income through its  trade balance .”  The pound fell 0.9 percent to $1.6178 as of 4:25 p.m. in
London, reversing an earlier advance to $1.6411. Sterling fell
1.1 percent to 87.81 pence per euro and lost 1.4 percent to
125.10 yen.  The deepest government spending cuts since World War II
coupled with a worsening debt crisis in the euro area are
hurting prospects for economic growth in the U.K. and adding to
the likelihood that interest rates will stay lower.  Bank of
England  Governor  Mervyn King  will present new growth and
inflation forecasts tomorrow that are likely to boost
speculation policy makers will keep the main  interest rate  at a
record low 0.5 percent to help revive growth.  Trade Deficit  A report today showed the U.K. trade deficit widened more
than estimated to 8.87 billion pounds from 8.47 billion pounds
in May as a decline in exports outpaced a drop in imports. That
compared with economists’ forecast for a shortfall of 8.1
billion pounds, according to the median of 18 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  Signs of worsening economic growth come amid the worst
riots in Britain since the 1980s, forcing Prime Minister  David Cameron  to recall Parliament from its summer break. Authorities
also more than doubled the number of police deployed in London
as they prepared for a fourth night of unrest.  “The fact that the heart of the capital is preparing for a
fresh night of violence doesn’t help,” said  Simon Derrick ,
chief currency strategist at Bank of New York Mellon Corp. in
London. “It’s a new risk that people looking at the U.K. from
outside wouldn’t have factored in yet.”  The yield on the 10-year gilt jumped seven basis points to
2.71 percent while two-year note yields rose three basis points
to 0.61 percent.  Benchmark gilt yields have slumped 80 basis points this
year as investors favored the relative safety of U.K. securities
amid the euro-region debt crisis.  The U.K. plans to issue 4.5 billion pounds of 1.75 percent
securities maturing January 2017 at a sale on Aug. 19, the Debt
Management Office said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in  London  
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  