-- 
Gilt Yields Near Record Lows as U.K. Seen as a Refuge Amid Global Turmoil

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-08-09T13:25:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/pound-strengthens-as-u-k-regarded-as-a-refuge-from-global-market-turmoil.html
Gilt yields were within six basis
points of a record low as investors sought the relative safety
of U.K. government assets amid spreading global financial
turmoil sparked by the U.S. credit-rating downgrade.  Sterling advanced against half of its major peers amid
speculation that the  Federal Reserve  may maintain stimulus
measures. Stocks slumped around the world for a second day and
gold surged to a record in the wake of last week’s  Standard &
Poor’s  downgrade of the U.S. AAA ranking. The pound pared gains
versus the dollar and weakened against the euro after a report
showed U.K. manufacturing unexpectedly fell.  “Gilts are still a very attractive safe-haven asset,”
said  John Wraith , a fixed-income strategist at Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit in London. “There’s a lot of  risk
aversion  out there and the growth outlook is slowing, all of
which favors gilts.”  The yield on the 10-year gilt was little changed at 2.65
percent as of 1:54 p.m. in  London , after reaching a record low
2.59 percent on Aug. 5. Two-year note yields were unchanged at
0.58 percent.  Benchmark gilt yields have slumped 86 basis points this
year as investors favored the relative safety of U.K. securities
amid a worsening euro-region debt crisis.  Yields on the securities have also fallen as the biggest
government spending cuts since World War II reduced prospects
for economic growth, boosting speculation the  Bank of England 
will keep its main  interest rate  at a record low 0.5 percent.  Factory Output  U.K. factory output declined 0.4 percent in June from the
previous month, when it rose 1.8 percent, the  Office for
National Statistics  said today in London. The median forecast of
24 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.2 percent
gain. The goods trade gap widened as a decline in exports
outpaced a fall in imports.  House-price declines in the U.K. eased in July, while a
measure of London home values jumped to its highest in more than
a year, the  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors said in a
separate report.  “The U.K. is still seen as a safe haven in an uncertain
world,” said Shant Movsesian, a strategist in London at 4Cast
Ltd., a research company that counts central banks among its
subscribers. “The coalition government has taken the unpleasant
but necessary step of cutting spending aggressively, in stark
contrast to  Europe  where austerity measures have been much more
gradual.”  Sterling was little changed at $1.6333, after climbing to
$1.6411. The pound was 0.5 percent weaker at 87.36 pence per
euro after reaching 86.43 pence on Aug. 5, the strongest since
May 27. Britain’s currency lost 0.6 percent to 126.09 yen.  Civil unrest that began in north London before spreading to
other parts of the capital and regional British cities is having
little impact on the pound and gilts, according to 4Cast’s
Movsesian.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London at 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  