-- 
Productivity in U.S. Probably Decreased, Labor Costs Climbed

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-08-09T04:01:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/productivity-in-u-s-probably-decreased-labor-costs-climbed.html
The productivity of U.S. workers
probably fell in the second quarter for the first time in a
year, pushing up labor costs, economists said before a report
today.  The measure of employee output per hour dropped at a 0.9
percent annual rate after a 1.8 percent gain in the prior three
months, according to the median estimate of 60 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Expenses per employee climbed at a
2.4 percent pace, the most in a year, the report may also show.  Falling efficiency and rising costs mean companies like
 AutoNation Inc. (AN)  have less incentive to take on staff or increase
pay, representing another obstacle to the recovery after growth
almost stalled in the first half of the year. Federal Reserve
policy makers, meeting today, are facing mounting pressure to do
more to bolster the world’s largest economy as shares plunge.  “Employers will be careful about adding jobs and hours,”
said  John Herrmann , senior-fixed income strategist at State
Street Global Markets LLC in  Boston . “Fed policy makers will
have to mark down their growth forecasts and may assert their
willingness to support the economy.”  The Labor Department’s report is due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Economists’ productivity estimates ranged from a
rise of 2.2 percent to a drop of 2 percent.  Members of the  Federal Open Market Committee , scheduled to
release a statement at 2:15 p.m. in Washington, will debate what
to do next following recent signs of a more pronounced U.S.
slowdown and European debt woes that battered the stock market.  Bernanke’s View  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress on July 14 that
central bank officials want to see if the economy rebounds as
anticipated in the coming months and are keeping a close eye on
inflation.  Stocks sank yesterday, extending the biggest slump for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since 2008’s bear market, amid
concern that a downgrade of the nation’s credit rating by S&P
may worsen an economic slowdown. The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  plunged 6.7
percent to close at 1,119.46 in  New York .  Gross domestic product expanded at a 1.3 percent annual
pace from April through June, after a 0.4 percent rate in the
previous three months, the Commerce Department said on July 29.
Household spending rose at 0.1 percent pace, the weakest since
the same period in 2009.  Revisions to GDP figures going back to 2003 showed the
2007-2009 recession took a bigger bite out of the economy than
previously estimated, and the recovery lost speed throughout
2010. Today’s productivity report will incorporate those output
updates, which will probably also reduce efficiency.  Burst of Productivity  Employee output per hour grew 3.8 percent yearly on average
in the past two years, the biggest back-to-back gain since 2002-
2003. Unit labor costs, which are adjusted for efficiency,
declined 1.6 percent as businesses cut workers and squeezed more
efficiency from existing staff.  A lack of productivity gains, combined with stagnant
growth, may keep a lid on hiring and wages, hurting Americans’
living standards. Employment grew by 117,000 in July and the
jobless rate fell to 9.1 percent, the Labor Department reported
last week.  Some companies are stepping up efforts to reduce expenses.
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the largest networking-equipment maker,
plans to eliminate about 6,500 jobs, or 9 percent of its full-
time global workforce, to trim $1 billion in annual costs and
boost profit growth.  Mike Jackson , chief executive officer of AutoNation, the
largest U.S. auto dealer, last week said his workers are
unlikely to see bigger paychecks any time soon. With new-car
demand still at a “depression level,” the  Fort Lauderdale ,
Florida-based company has to stay prepared in case things “get
ugly again,” he said.  “We have a fragile recovery that’s under way, which means
if you introduce anything into it that’s disruptive, it’s going
to knock it off its pace,” Jackson said in an Aug. 3 interview.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  