-- 
Productivity in U.S. Falls for Second Straight Quarter as Labor Costs Rise

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-08-09T20:20:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/productivity-in-u-s-falls-for-second-straight-quarter-as-labor-costs-rise.html
The productivity of U.S. workers
dropped from April through June for the second consecutive
quarter, leading to an increase in labor costs that may restrain
gains in profits.  The measure of employee output per hour fell at a 0.3
percent annual rate in the second quarter after a revised 0.6
percent drop in the prior three months, figures from the Labor
Department showed today in  Washington . The median estimate of 60
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a 0.9 percent
decrease. Expenses per employee climbed at a 2.2 percent rate.  Falling efficiency and rising costs mean companies like
AutoNation Inc. have less incentive to take on staff or increase
pay, representing another obstacle to the recovery after growth
almost stalled in the first half of the year. To help shore up
the economy, Federal Reserve policy makers today pledged for the
first time to keep their benchmark  interest rate  at a record low
at least through mid-2013.  With higher labor costs, “profitability will come under
pressure,” said  Eric Green , chief market economist at TD
Securities Inc. in  New York , who had forecast a decline in
productivity. “This would create more caution in expanding
payrolls, especially at a time when there is so much
uncertainty.”  Fed Decision  The Fed’s Open Market Committee discussed a range of policy
tools to bolster the economy and said it is “prepared to employ
these tools as appropriate,” it said in a statement in
Washington. Three members of the FOMC dissented, preferring to
maintain the pledge to keep rates low for an “extended
period.”  Stocks climbed, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rising
4.7 percent to 1,172.53 at the 4 p.m. close in New York.
 Treasury securities  rose, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-
year note down to 2.27 percent from 2.32 percent late yesterday.  Economists’ productivity forecasts in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from a decrease of 2 percent to a 2.2 percent gain.
Efficiency in the first quarter was previously reported as
having increased at a 1.8 percent rate.  The back-to-back drop in productivity was the first since
the third and fourth quarters of 2008.  Unit labor costs, which are adjusted for efficiency gains,
were projected to rise 2.4 percent, according to the survey
median. Labor expenses in the first quarter were revised to 4.8
percent, the biggest gain since the fourth quarter of 2008, from
a previously reported 0.7 percent advance.  Last Year  From the second quarter of 2010, productivity climbed 0.8
percent compared with a 1.2 percent year-over-year increase in
the first quarter. Labor costs rose 1.3 percent from the year-
earlier period following a 1.1 percent increase in the 12 months
ended in the first quarter.  Today’s productivity report incorporated revisions to prior
years. Worker efficiency was revised to 4.1 percent in 2010 from
a previously reported 3.9 percent. For 2009, it was revised down
to 2.3 percent from 3.7 percent.  Labor costs fell 2 percent in 2010, the biggest decline
since records began in 1948.  Gross domestic product expanded at a 1.3 percent annual
pace from April through June, after a 0.4 percent rate in the
previous three months, the Commerce Department said on July 29.
Household spending rose at 0.1 percent pace, the weakest since
the same period in 2009.  GDP Revisions  Revisions to GDP figures going back to 2003 showed the
2007-2009 recession took a bigger bite out of the economy than
previously estimated, and the recovery lost speed throughout
2010. Those revisions led to today’s updates in productivity.  The Fed today offered a dimmer view of the economy than it
did in the last statement in late June.  “Economic growth so far this year has been considerably
slower than the committee had expected,” it said. The Fed also
said it expects a “somewhat slower pace of recovery over coming
quarters,” adding that “downside risks to the economic outlook
have increased.”  A lack of productivity gains, combined with stagnant
growth, may keep a lid on hiring and wages, hurting Americans’
living standards. Employment grew by 117,000 in July and the
jobless rate fell to 9.1 percent, the Labor Department reported
last week.  Some companies are stepping up efforts to reduce expenses.
Cisco Systems Inc., the largest networking-equipment maker,
plans to eliminate about 6,500 jobs, or 9 percent of its full-
time global workforce, to trim $1 billion in annual costs and
boost profit growth.  Mike Jackson , chief executive officer of AutoNation, the
largest U.S. auto dealer, last week said his workers are
unlikely to see bigger paychecks any time soon. With new-car
demand still at a “depression level,” the  Fort Lauderdale ,
Florida-based company has to stay prepared in case things “get
ugly again,” he said.  “We have a fragile recovery that’s under way, which means
if you introduce anything into it that’s disruptive, it’s going
to knock it off its pace,” Jackson said in an Aug. 3 interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  