-- 
Rajaratnam Seeks Sentence ‘Substantially Below’ Guideline

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-08-09T22:46:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/rajaratnam-seeks-sentence-substantially-below-guidelines-in-galleon-case.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam asked a federal judge for a prison term
“substantially below” what U.S. guidelines recommend for the
hedge-fund manager convicted of running the biggest insider-
trading ring in a generation.  Rajaratnam, 54, faces as long as 19 1/2 years in prison,
prosecutors said in May when he was convicted of all 14 criminal
counts of conspiracy and securities fraud. He’s scheduled to be
sentenced Sept. 27 by U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in
 Manhattan .  Defense attorneys cited Rajaratnam’s poor health, urging
Holwell not to force their client to die in prison. “Mr.
Rajaratnam is not a healthy man,” they wrote, citing
“significant and challenging medical issues” that are known to
the court’s probation department. “His death will be hastened
by a term of imprisonment,” they said.  Prosecutors said Rajaratnam engaged in a seven-year
conspiracy to trade on inside information from corporate
executives, bankers, consultants, traders and directors of
public companies including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  He gained
$63.8 million as a result of the scheme, according to the
government.  Insider Trading   Rajaratnam used the information to trade ahead of public
announcements about earnings, forecasts, mergers and spinoffs
involving more than a dozen companies, according to evidence
presented during Rajaratnam’s trial. Among the companies were
 Intel Corp ., Google Inc., ATI Technologies Inc. and Clearwire
Corp.  Prosecutors and defense lawyers are awaiting a pre-
sentencing report from the federal probation office to help
determine a range under U.S. sentencing guidelines, according to
today’s filing by  John Dowd , the lead lawyer for Rajaratnam.
Holwell is free to disregard the guidelines, which are advisory.  Letters on Rajaratnam’s behalf came from his family
members, former business associates, ex-employees and even his
apartment doorman. Some of the letters detail what the defense
said is more than $45 million in charitable donations by
Rajaratnam in the U.S. and abroad, including millions of dollars
to help victims of a tsunami that devastated his native  Sri
Lanka .  ‘Countless Lives’  “Whereas the crimes of his conviction had not a single
identifiable victim, his charitable acts enriched countless
lives,” Dowd wrote.  The defense argued that Rajaratnam’s crimes are “not in
the same league” as those committed by executives at Enron
Corp. or WorldCom Inc., a few of whom were sentenced to more
than 20 years in prison, “since those defendants betrayed their
own shareholders and employees.”  Rajaratnam did nothing to harm his investors, Dowd wrote.  The lawyer also said that Rajaratnam’s sentence should be
consistent with those imposed on others convicted of insider
trading, including former New Castle Funds Analyst LLC Danielle Chiesi, who was sentenced to 30 months behind bars.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  