-- 
Ralcorp to Buy Sara Lee’s Dough Business for $545 Million

-- B y   J a m e s   C a l l a n
-- 
2011-08-09T20:52:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/ralcorp-to-buy-sara-lee-s-dough-business-for-545-million-2-.html
Ralcorp Holdings Inc. (RAH) , the maker of
Raisin Bran cereals, agreed to buy  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE) ’s North
American refrigerated-dough unit for $545 million to bolster its
private-label brands with pizza and toaster pastries.  The acquisition may boost earnings per share by 30 cents in
its first year, excluding one-time expenses, St. Louis-based
Ralcorp said today in a statement. The companies expect the deal
to be completed by the end of this year.  Ralcorp is expanding its private-label food brands after
this year rejecting a $4.9 billion bid from  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG) 
Sara Lee, the U.S. food maker planning to break itself up, said
the refrigerated-dough unit had sales of about $300 million for
its fiscal year ended July 2010.  “It’s a fairly high-margin business,”  Tim Ramey , an
analyst with D.A. Davidson & Co. in  Lake Oswego , Oregon, said
today in a telephone interview. The competitive landscape is
“Pillsbury and Sara Lee. It’s pretty much a duopoly.” Ramey,
who rates Sara Lee “neutral,” said the purchase price is about
$100 million more than what he expected.  The purchase of the unit, which also makes specialty
biscuits and crescent rolls, will generate savings of $6 million
to $8 million annually after the third year, excluding one-time
costs, Ralcorp said.  Surging Costs  Ralcorp generated about $3 billion in revenue last year
from selling nuts, sauces and frozen foods under retailers’ own
brands. Last month, the company announced plans to spin off Post
Foods after failing to sell the unit.  Sara Lee’s dough business employs 700 people and has
manufacturing and distribution facilities in Carrollton,  Texas ,
and Forest Park, Georgia. After the deal is completed, the unit
will operate as part of Ralcorp’s Frozen Bakery Products
division.  In May, Sara Lee said it was evaluating options for the
refrigerated-dough unit. The company, along with food makers
such as Kraft Foods Inc., has raised prices amid surging costs
for raw ingredients such as coffee and meat.  Sara Lee, based in  Downers Grove ,  Illinois , rose 76 cents,
or 4.4 percent, to $17.89 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 2.2 percent
this year. Ralcorp advanced 74 cents, or 1 percent, to $75.03
and has gained 15 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Callan in New York at 
 Jcallan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  