-- 
Treasuries Fall on Speculation Fed Will Offer Increased Economic Stimulus

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-08-09T14:44:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/treasuries-advance-on-stock-slide-30-year-yield-declines-to-11-month-low.html
Treasuries dropped, pushing 10-year
note yields up from the lowest level since January 2009, on
speculation the  Federal Reserve  may introduce today added
stimulus measures to boost financial confidence.  Three-year notes decreased before the U.S. government’s $32
billion auction of the debt. Treasuries remained lower as U.S.
stocks rose after yesterday’s rally in Treasuries and rout in
equities prompted by  Standard & Poor’s  cut in America’s top
credit rating. Volatility in the Treasury market rose yesterday
to the highest since December, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Indexes.  “Everyone is waiting for the Fed, so we’ll be in volatile
and light-volume range until they come out,” said  Anthony Cronin , a trader in New York at Societe Generale SA, one of the
20 primary dealers that trade with the Fed “They may try to
remind the market that they have policy tools and that the
numbers have not all been discouraging.”  Yields on 10-year notes climbed six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 2.38 percent at 10:41 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent
securities maturing in May 2021 fell 17/32, or $5.31 per $1,000
face amount, to 106 15/32.  Current three-year note yields rose six basis points to
0.48 percent. The three-year notes scheduled for sale today
yielded 0.5 percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 0.67
percent at the previous sale of the securities on July 12.
Investors bid for 3.22 times the amount of available debt last
month, compared with 3.28 times in June.  Fed View  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and fellow policy makers may
extend a pledge following their meeting today to maintain record
stimulus, according to economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co., BNP
Paribas SA and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “It’s all about the Fed today,” said  Ian Lyngen , a
government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “People are expecting the possibility of something
more aggressive. There may be a reluctance to take down the
auction given the volatility of late, but given the bias for
more action out of the Fed than less the auctions should go
well.”  Treasuries surged yesterday as tumbling stock markets
sparked demand for the safety of government debt. Standard &
Poor’s cut the U.S. government’s AAA credit rating at the end of
last week, while Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings
have affirmed the U.S. at the top rating.  Volatility in the Treasury market has picked up. Merrill
Lynch & Co.’s MOVE index, which measure price swings in
Treasuries based on prices of over-the-counter options maturing
in two to 30 years, rose yesterday to 117.8, the highest since
Dec. 17, up from a 2011 low of 71.5 in May.  Yield Drop  The 10-year note yields dropped earlier today to 2.27
percent, the lowest level since January 2009. Yields on two-year
notes were unchanged at 0.26 percent after falling yesterday to
a record low 0.2283. Yields on 30-year bonds rose three basis
points to 3.69 percent.  The extra yield investors get for holding 30-year bonds
instead of two-year notes was 3.42 percentage points, almost the
narrowest on a closing basis since October 2010.  “Yield is tough to come by,” said Gary Shilling,
president of Springfield, New Jersey-based A. Gary Shilling &
Co., in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “Yields are low because the U.S. is a safe haven.”
Shilling predicted the U.S. recession that began in December
2007.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 2.4 percent. Stoxx
 Europe  600 Index tumbled 1.8 percent, erasing a gain in early
trading.  The Fed may consider today the use of untested policy tools
after two rounds of bond buying known as quantitative easing
totaling $2.3 trillion.  By a 52 percent to 48 percent margin, respondents in a
Bloomberg News survey said the Fed would ease policy this year
through monetary tools or statement language. If the central
bank acts, 59 percent said it would communicate that the Federal
funds rate, balance sheet or both will remain especially
stimulative for a longer period or more specific amount of time.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will probably leave the
fed funds target rate at zero to 0.25 percent today, according
to the median forecast of 103 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. The rate has been in a range of zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008.  ‘Recent Deterioration’  “We expect the FOMC will acknowledge the recent
deterioration of the economic data and some risks resulting from
the recent downgrade of U.S. Treasury debt by S&P,” wrote
analysts led by  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist at
Jefferies Group Inc. in New York. “There is a possibility that
the committee will provide guidance on balance sheet management
going forward with the goal of lowering long-term rates.”  Jefferies doesn’t expect the Fed to announce a third round
of quantitative easing, the analysts wrote. The central bank
ended $600 billion of bond-buying in June.  Treasuries have returned 6.2 percent this year, according
to indexes complied by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  Japan ’s government bonds have
gained 1.3 percent, while German bunds have returned 4.8
percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  