-- 
Murray, Baucus, Kerry to Sit on Deficit-Cutting Super Committee

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-08-10T04:01:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/reid-said-to-appoint-three-to-deficit-panel.html
Senate Democratic Leader  Harry Reid 
will appoint Senators Patty Murray of Washington, Max Baucus of
Montana and  John Kerry  of  Massachusetts  to a special committee
charged with finding $1.5 trillion in budget savings.  Reid, of Nevada, said he will name Murray as co-chairwoman
of the bipartisan, 12-member deficit- cutting panel, which will 
be the central focus of political and lobbying activity on Capitol 
Hill for the next four months.  “As the events of the past week have made clear, the world
is watching the work of this committee,” the Senate majority 
leader said last night in a statement.  Standard & Poor’s  on Aug. 5 lowered the U.S.’s AAA credit
rating for the first time, slamming lawmakers for failing to cut
spending or raise revenue to reduce record deficits.  Reid’s selections to the so-called super committee may send
mixed signals about whether it is headed for deadlock or a debt-
curbing compromise. While Kerry has a record of working with
such Republicans as  Arizona  Senator John McCain, Murray will
lead Democrats’ Senate re-election efforts, a role that some
analysts say raises doubts about her ability to leave politics
aside.  Each chamber will name six members to the panel. Senate
Republican leader Mitch McConnell will announce his choices
today, said an aide familiar with the matter, leaving House
Republican and Democratic leaders to make their appointments.  Automatic Cuts Loom  The committee was conceived as part of a law signed on Aug.
2 by President Barack Obama that raised the U.S. debt limit to
avoid a default. The panel must push through a deficit-reduction
package by year’s end or else $1.2 trillion in automatic
spending cuts will be triggered over the next decade.  All three senators appointed by Reid have said they believe
that revenue increases, either by closing loopholes or boosting
tax rates on the rich, should be part of a debt plan. Republican
leaders have rejected that idea, saying the focus should
entirely be on spending reductions.  “This puts even more pressure on where Obama is,” because
it may force him to lay out his own deficit-cutting plan, said
 Ed Lorenzen , a former senior aide on a fiscal commission the
president set up last year.  Murray, the fourth-ranking member of her party in the
Senate, and Baucus are unlikely to make any compromise not
supported by the president, Lorenzen said, while Kerry may
emerge as a dealmaker willing to press both sides to make
uncomfortable tradeoffs.  Baucus is chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, while
Kerry heads the Foreign Relations Committee.  ‘Alarm Bells’  Murray’s appointment will cause “certain alarm bells to
go off” because she heads the Democratic Senatorial Campaign
Committee, said  Robert Bixby , head of the Concord Coalition, an
Arlington, Virginia-based group that presses for balanced
budgets. “She’s the head of the Democratic election effort, and
that sends a bad signal right off the bat.”  Kerry is a “smart pick, a lot of prestige and willing to
work across the aisle,” Bixby said.  Murray’s appointment satisfies calls by female Democratic
senators such as Jeanne Shaheen of  New Hampshire , who had
pressed Reid to name a woman to the panel after previous
negotiating groups, including one led by Vice President Joe Biden, included only male lawmakers.  The three senators stressed their commitment to reaching an
agreement, in a statement: “The true danger lies in inaction,”
they said. “These are among the most serious challenges we’ve
ever faced in the Senate.”  Kyl, Portman  Among the leading Senate Republican contenders for the
panel are Jon Kyl, the No. 2 Republican from Arizona, and Rob Portman of  Ohio , who was President  George W. Bush ’s top
international trade official and budget director, according to
aides familiar with the deliberations. Potential picks among
House Republicans are Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp of  Michigan  and Paul Ryan of  Wisconsin , the Budget
Committee chairman.  Reid, with his appointments, rejected calls by Alan Simpson, a former Wyoming Republican senator who was co-chairman
of Obama’s debt commission, to appoint members of the “Gang of
Six” senators, a separate group that proposed a combination of
spending cuts and revenue increases to bring down the deficit.  Among the Gang of Six members passed over is Senator Dick Durbin, the Senate’s No. 2 ranking Democrat who also served on
Obama’s fiscal commission last year and had expressed support
for raising the  retirement age  for Social Security.  Party Loyalist  Baucus is a party loyalist who is close to Reid and has a
history of fighting to protect Social Security and opposing
Bush’s tax cuts for upper-income Americans. He was the only
Democratic senator to vote against the final report produced by
the president’s fiscal commission, with Durbin and Senator Kent Conrad of  North Dakota  supporting it.  He said on July 31 that any plan “has got to be
evenhanded; it’s got to be balanced.”  “That means some of the most wealthy Americans who have
money hidden overseas have to pony up,” he said in a video
posted on his website. “It means that billionaires in this
country who have not been participating have to participate.”  Securities firms and investors have been Baucus’s top
campaign contributors since 2007, donating a total of $722,669,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-
based research groups that tracks money in politics.  Crossing the Aisle  Still, Baucus has tried to cross the aisle before, spending
months negotiating with Republican lawmakers in 2009 on the
health-care overhaul. In 2003, he and former Senator John Breaux
of  Louisiana  were the only two Democrats invited by Republican
leaders to take part in closed-door negotiations between the
House and Senate on a bill creating a prescription-drug benefit
in the Medicare health insurance program.  Murray has also voiced support for making wealthier
Americans play a significant part in reducing the debt.  “I strongly believe that everyone must sacrifice, not just
middle-class families who have been sacrificing over and over,”
she said in a statement on Aug. 1. She said the special
committee “will be so important in building a balanced approach
to addressing our long-term debt and deficit.”  Murray’s biggest campaign supporter was Emily’s List, a
group that works to elect women who favor abortion rights, with
$202,656 in contributions since 2007, according to the Center
for Responsive Politics. She also got support from retirees, who
have contributed $795,738 to help re-elect her since 2007. Many
of the deficit-reduction proposals floated by Republicans have
included cuts to Medicare and Social Security.  Microsoft, Boeing  Among Murray’s top five campaign contributors were the
employees of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY)   Kerry, at an Aug. 4 press conference, made it clear he
intends to seek budget savings from closing tax loopholes.  “Surely in 73,000 pages of various loopholes and tax
benefits we can find some that are no longer as important or as
beneficial as they once were,” he said. He pointed to subsidies
for mohair and for  oil companies .  Kerry’s biggest supporters have come from the financial and
legal professions. Employees of Bain Capital LLC, the private
equity firm founded by presidential hopeful Mitt Romney, were
his biggest source of campaign cash since 2007, with donations
totaling $76,200, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics.  Open to Loopholes  Kerry in the past has opposed a proposal to close a tax
loophole enjoyed by private equity firms that allow their
executives to pay taxes at a 15 percent capital gains rate
rather than at the top 35 percent income tax rate.  The panel’s deliberations may be played out in public. Both
House Speaker John Boehner and House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi have called for the discussions to be open.  During a conference call with House Republicans, Boehner
told colleagues that he and other congressional leaders want the
super committee to conduct open hearings and a public process
for making its recommendations, according to a leadership aide
who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Pelosi, in an Aug. 5 statement, said the panel’s
“deliberations should be open” to the public and media
coverage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in  Washington  at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  