-- 
Mortgage-Bond ‘Pain’ Not Fully Seen in Results of Holders, Ellington Says

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-08-09T20:35:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/residential-mortgage-bond-pain-not-fully-seen-in-results-ellington-says.html
A slump in the $1.2 trillion market
for U.S. residential mortgage-backed securities without
government-backing may not be “fully reflected” in the results
of holders of the debt, according to Ellington Financial LLC
Chief Executive Officer Larry Penn.  “There’s a lot of pain out there in non-agency RMBS, much
of which may not be fully reflected in what’s been publicly
reported so far” by other companies, Penn said today on a
conference call about the  Old Greenwich , Connecticut-based
investment firm’s quarterly results. The company, which was
formed in 2007, is run by hedge-fund manager Michael Vranos’
Ellington Financial Management LLC, which Penn helped found in
1994.  The comments signal that the valuation of mortgage
securities by investment firms and banks often remains inexact.
Four years ago today, BNP Paribas SA marked the spread of the
financial crisis by freezing withdrawals from three of its funds
when it couldn’t value their subprime holdings, and banks
including Citigroup Inc. later reported escalating writedowns.  While the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority in May
 began  collecting information on transactions in the market from
brokers, the regulator plans to study whether to make the data
public. Last month, widely circulated auctions of non-agency
securities fell to $9.7 billion, about 50 percent the level of a
year earlier, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts wrote in an Aug. 5
report.  “With little trading, price activity was unclear, although
the few bonds that cleared traded well even during equity market
turmoil,” the New York-based analysts led by  John Sim  wrote.  Penn said on the call that “as we all know, sometimes
market paralysis precedes distressed selling.”  Market Declines  One pricing measure, so-called ABX indexes tied to credit-
default swaps on subprime debt, often doesn’t correlate with the
prices of the actual bonds, according to the JPMorgan analysts.  A Markit ABX index tied to subprime-mortgage bonds rated
AAA when issued in 2006 fell yesterday by 2.8 to 47, the
sharpest decline since May 2010 and lowest close since June 27,
according to London-based administrator Markit Group Ltd. The
index, whose levels signal that investors may pay similar
amounts in cents on the dollar for comparable bonds, has fallen
from a 30-month high of 62.7 in February.  Subprime-mortgage bonds from 2005, 2006 and 2007 on average
returned 2.2 percent from June 30 through yesterday, after
losing 5.6 percent in the second quarter, according to Barclays
Capital index data.  Non-Agency Securities  Last quarter, “certain sectors” of the non-agency
mortgage-bond market “had price declines in excess of 20
percent and certain sectors are relatively unscathed,” said
Mark Tecotzky,  Ellington Financial LLC (EFC) ’s co-chief investment
officer with Vranos, the former head of Kidder Peabody & Co.’s
top-ranked mortgage-bond business in the early 1990s.  The company’s $370 million of non-agency securities, which
are mainly older bonds, fell about 4.7 percent, Chief Financial
Officer Lisa Mumford said. The firm’s net loss from operations
last quarter totaled $1.3 million, the company said yesterday.  The company’s estimated book value, a measure of the value
of its assets minus its liabilities, fell to $22.61 per common
share on a diluted basis on July 31 from $22.78 on June 30,
according to company statements.  The firm invests in both agency and non-agency mortgage
securities and uses credit-default swaps to bet against bonds.
Agency mortgage securities are guaranteed by government-
supported  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  or federal agency Ginnie
Mae, while non-agency debt lacks that backing.  ‘Significant Discount’  Ellington Financial LLC rose 39 cents to $18.39 at 4:15
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Investors
have lost 8.9 percent, assuming reinvested dividends, since the
company’s $101.3 million initial public offering in October,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company yesterday announced plans to repurchase $10
million shares to take advantage of what Penn called the
“significant discount” in their value. Tecotzky also said it
enjoys a “much more fertile investment landscape” when
investing in non-agency mortgage bonds and would focus more on
the debt.  Two Harbors Investment Corp. (TWO) , which raised $490 million in
equity in July, and  MFA Financial Inc. (MFA)  are two of the real
estate investment trusts that buy both agency and non-agency
mortgage bonds whose executives also said on earnings calls this
month they see more relative opportunity in non-agency debt.  Agency mortgage bonds remain a source of strength for the
country as signs of a slowing economy roil markets, according to
Tecotzky.  “With most of the mortgage origination market still
controlled by the government, credit availability is unchanged
by recent market events and borrowing costs have come down,” he
said. “That’s in sharp contrast to the commercial market, which
is mostly dependent on private capital.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 