-- 
Retailers’ Leveraged Loans Slump on Double-Dip Recession Concern in Europe

-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 
2011-08-09T10:38:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/retailers-leveraged-loans-slump-on-double-dip-recession-concern-in-europe.html
The threat of a double-dip recession
prompted leveraged loan traders to mark down the debt of
European retailers by as much as 17 percent, eclipsing losses of
less than 1 percent in the rest of the market.  The payment-in-kind notes of U.K. budget-fashion retailer
New Look Group Ltd. lost 17 percent to trade at about half of
face value in the week to Aug. 5, according to prices from
Markit Group Ltd. Madrid-based retailer Cortefiel SA’s term loan
B also declined 4 percent to 63.29 percent. The leveraged loan
market as a whole fell 0.45 percent last week, its second-
biggest weekly decline, to an average bid price of 90.67 percent
of face value, Markit said.  “There’s widespread concern about levels of consumption in
 Europe  as there are an awful lot of increased costs putting
pressure on consumers’ wallets,” said Dan Gardner, a London-
based  fund manager  at M&G who oversees about 3 billion euros
($4.3 billion). “The retail sector is close to a zero-weighting
in our portfolio because of our fears there.”  European investor confidence had its steepest decline on
record in August. An index measuring sentiment in the 17-nation
euro region fell to minus 13.5 from 5.3 in July, the Limburg,
Germany-based research institute Sentix said yesterday. The
 European Central Bank  re-entered the bond markets last week to
stem the euro area’s crisis, yesterday buying Italian and
Spanish government debt to bolster markets.  Vivarte Loans Fall  Leveraged loans are typically used to fund buyouts. The
debt is taken in the name of the acquired company and the burden
triggers a downgrade in the target’s rating to junk, or below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by S&P. PIK notes
allow borrowers to pay interest with more debt instead of cash.  The loans of fellow retailer Vivarte, the operator of
Kookai and NAF NAF fashion stores in  France  owned by
Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP, also fell 3.5 percent to 87
percent of face value, according to Markit prices.  New Look is owned by Permira Advisers LLP and Apax Partners
Worldwide LLP. Cortefiel is owned by CVC Capital Partners Ltd.,
PAI Partners and Permira Holdings Ltd.  High-yield bond prices dropped alongside leveraged loans
last week, as the extra yield investors demanded to hold the
notes rather than  government securities  surged 74 basis points
to 710 basis points, the highest since July last year, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  “Thursday and Friday last week we saw aggressive trading
desk and hedge fund de-risking which accelerated the downward
price action in loans,” said Catherine Yelverton, global head
of loan trading at HSBC Holdings Plc in  London . “Investors are
looking to sell assets where they can.”  A so-called term loan B is sold mainly to non-bank lenders
such as collateralized loan obligations, bank loan mutual funds
and  hedge funds . A term loan A is sold mainly to banks and is
infrequently traded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 