-- 
Rice Falls in Tokyo as Ample Supply May Ease Radiation Concerns

-- B y   J a e   H u r
-- 
2011-08-09T08:28:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/rice-falls-in-tokyo-as-ample-supply-may-ease-radiation-concerns.html
Rice declined in  Tokyo , reversing an
earlier rally, on speculation that ample domestic stockpiles may
ease concern that radiation will spread to crops and curb supply.  Futures for delivery in January 2012, the most-active
contract, closed at 15,870 yen ($205) per 60 kilograms, down 3.2
percent from a reference price of 16,400 yen set by the Tokyo
Grain Exchange. The contract earlier swung up and down by the
daily limit of 1,000 yen. Volume totaled 6,765 contracts.  The exchange started trading rice yesterday for the first
time since 1939 to boost volumes and profit. The resumption came
as fallout from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant may spread
after it was found cattle had been fed cesium-tainted rice straw.
The bourse will reduce the daily maximum price limit to 800 yen
tomorrow from 1,000 yen, with a circuit breaker of 400 yen.  “The market appeared to have overreacted to radiation
concerns,” said  Kazuhiko Saito , chief analyst at Tokyo-based
commodity broker Fujitomi Co. While  Japan  has started checking
rice crops for radiation, sufficient inventories and shrinking
consumption may dampen prices, he said.  Demand for domestic food-rice is forecast at 8.05 million
metric tons in the year to June 30, 2012, compared with 8.19
million tons in the previous year. Food-rice output will drop to
7.93 million tons this year, below a production plan of 7.95
million tons, the government has said. Last year, the harvest
was 8.48 million tons.  Rice Screening  Japan is self-sufficient in the grain as the government
protects growers from foreign competition with a tariff of 341
yen ($4.35) a kilogram on imports. The government plans to hold
880,000 tons of domestic food-rice in its reserve at the end of
June next year, unchanged from a year earlier.  Faced with criticism from consumer groups and opposition
party politicians that lax government control has endangered
 food safety , the ministry has tightened rice screening before
the harvest begins in eastern Japan.  The government  ordered  Fukushima and 13 nearby prefectures
to test rice samples before the harvest. Authorities will ban
shipments from areas where they find grains containing cesium
exceeding 500 becquerels a kilogram. Rice production in
Fukushima and neighboring Ibaraki, Miyagi and Iwate prefectures
amounted to 1.56 million metric tons last year, out of the
country’s total of 8.5 million tons.  “The volume of trade was thin because of a lack of
participation from producers,” said  Hiroyuki Kikukawa , general
manager of research at IDO Securities Co. “Trade will remain
subdued for the time being until the test results come out.”  The Central Union of Agricultural Cooperatives, Japan’s
largest farmer group, strongly opposes the listing as
speculation may distort prices and damage stable supplies,
Mamoru Moteki, chairman of the group, also and known as JA-
Zenchu, said in a  notice  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  