-- 
Trichet Turns ‘President of Europe’ as Debt Crisis Stuns Political Leaders

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-08-09T09:18:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/trichet-turns-president-of-europe-as-debt-crisis-stuns-political-leaders.html
When  Jean-Claude Trichet  retires on
Oct. 31, the euro area may lose more than just a European
Central Bank president.  Trichet has emerged as Europe’s key policy maker during the
sovereign debt crisis, holding the 12-year-old monetary union
together as heads of state squabble over their response. While
ECB officials have sometimes split over the direction, under
Trichet the central bank shown itself more willing and able to
act than the bloc’s 17 finance ministers and government leaders.  “Trichet has become the de facto president of Europe,”
said  Marco Valli , chief European economist at UniCredit Global
Research in Milan. “He is the only one who’s delivered the
leadership necessary during this crisis.”  As German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy struggle to restore investors’ faith in euro-
area bond markets, Trichet has taken the ECB further and further
into uncharted territory to protect the euro. In his latest
attempt to stop the debt crisis from spreading, Trichet
convinced a majority of the ECB’s 23-member Governing Council to
start purchasing Italian and Spanish government debt, overcoming
opposition from  Germany ’s Bundesbank in a move that economists
estimate could cost as much as $1.2 trillion.  While fraught with risks, the decision highlighted that
“the ECB is the only institution in a position to contain the
crisis,” said  Joerg Kraemer , chief economist at Commerzbank AG
in Frankfurt.  Leading Role  For now, the gamble is paying off. The yields on Italian
and Spanish 10-year bonds, which rose to euro-era records last
week, have plunged about 100 basis points since the ECB started
buying the nations’ debt yesterday. They were at 5.08 percent
and 4.96 percent, respectively, as of 11:16 a.m. in Frankfurt.  A lack of political cohesion in  Europe  has forced Trichet
to take the lead role in tackling a crisis that began with
 Greece ’s fiscal meltdown more than 18 months ago.  As heads of state disagreed first over whether to bail out
 Athens , then over the establishment of a rescue fund for the
region, then over private-sector involvement in a second bailout
for Greece, they increasingly turned to Trichet for guidance,
and to win them time.  While leaders have agreed to allow the European Financial
Stability Facility to buy bonds on the secondary market, as
requested by the ECB, individual parliaments must still ratify
the change, leaving the central bank to deal with the situation
in the interim. Sarkozy and Merkel want this done by October.  German Rulebook  “Trichet has found himself between a rock and a hard
place,” said  Julian Callow , chief European economist at
 Barclays Capital  in  London . “By nature conservative yet
pragmatic, he’s often had to step up because he saw the
politicians were not capable of acting.”  In the process, Trichet has torn up the ECB’s German-
inspired rulebook.  He loosened collateral rules to accommodate the
deteriorating creditworthiness of Greece, Ireland and  Portugal ,
and three times reversed the ECB’s exit from emergency liquidity
measures for banks. Now he is buying the bonds of the region’s
third and fourth-largest economies, potentially putting the ECB
on the hook for hundreds of billions of euros and opening it to
criticism that it is financing profligate nations.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc estimates it could cost
the ECB and the EFSF 850 billion euros ($1.2 trillion) to get on
top of the Italian and Spanish debt markets. “This huge risk-
pooling exercise will not come easily and the risk of political
fallout will be large,” RBS economist  Jacques Cailloux  said.  ‘European Unity’  Trichet, 68, helped design the 1992 Maastricht Treaty that
established the foundations for the euro, launched in 1999. In
contrast to politicians concerned about their re-election
prospects, Trichet, a Frenchman, has said his life motivation is
to achieve a “deepening of European unity.”  On Nov. 1, the ECB baton will pass to Italian  Mario Draghi ,
63, who has echoed Trichet’s criticism of politicians for
failing to deal decisively with the debt crisis. Draghi said
last month that politicians must “define with clarity the
political objectives, the scope of the instruments and the
amount of resources available” to stop the crisis.  Trichet’s drive to do what it takes has provoked the most
public splits in the ECB’s history as the Bundesbank, once
Europe’s most powerful central bank, objected to the scale of
his interventions.  When the ECB started its bond-buying program in May 2010,
then-Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  openly dissented, saying
the move posed stability risks. Little more than a year later,
Weber’s successor Jens Weidmann warned that the Eurosystem must
not take any further risks onto its balance sheet. In his effort
to calm investors, Trichet overruled them both.  Price Stability  By embarking on purchases of Italian and Spanish bonds,
Trichet may be setting the ECB on a collision course with its
primary mandate -- ensuring price stability. He has raised
borrowing costs twice this year to curb price pressures.  “If Italy doesn’t find enough buyers for its bonds at the
next auction, the ECB would be forced to step into the market
massively,” said Commerzbank’s Kraemer. “In such a scenario,
the bank wouldn’t raise rates anymore.  Monetary policy  is under
the diktat of the debt crisis.”  The longer the ECB has to wait for governments to approve
the EFSF as a bond-buying entity, the more assets it may have to
accumulate. That may hamper the ECB’s ability to “sterilize”
the purchases by taking the same amount of money from the system
in the form of deposits from banks. If it fails to do so, the
purchases could swell the  money supply  and fuel inflation.  Faster Inflation  “We always withdraw the liquidity we injected so that we
don’t embark on any concept of quantitative easing,” Trichet
said on Aug. 4.  Trichet is nevertheless likely to leave office with
inflation in breach of the ECB’s 2 percent limit. The rate is
currently 2.5 percent.  The strains the debt crisis have placed on the ECB’s
inflation-fighting mandate have prompted Trichet to call for
greater budget coordination in the euro area.  Trichet, one of last architects of the euro still in public
office, has suggested that one day the region should have a
common  finance ministry  to bolster the single currency through
more fiscal cohesion.  “That day may be a long time coming,” said  Christian Schulz , a former ECB economist now working for Joh. Berenberg
Gossler & Co. in London. “And until it does, Trichet and the
ECB will be the ones fighting for the euro’s survival.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  