-- 
Roche Seeks ‘Middle Ground’ in U.S. Appeal of Avastin Breast Cancer Ruling

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-08-09T09:27:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/roche-seeks-middle-ground-in-u-s-appeal-of-avastin-breast-cancer-ruling.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  asked U.S.
regulators to keep Avastin on the market for  breast cancer  in
what the drugmaker called a “middle-ground proposal” while it
conducts another clinical trial.  Roche  asked  the  Food and Drug Administration  to allow
Avastin’s use together with the chemotherapy paclitaxel in
patients with aggressive cancer and few options for treatment,
according to a docket filed on Aug. 4. The drugmaker said it
also plans a 480-patient trial, with failure triggering
immediate voluntary withdrawal of Avastin for breast cancer.  The appeal is Roche’s latest effort to prevent withdrawal
of Avastin’s approval in the U.S. An FDA panel ruled in June
that use of the drug in breast cancer should be stopped because
it didn’t work as well in follow-up studies and can cause deadly
bleeding. Roche’s proposal would focus Avastin’s use on patients
with more severe cancer that’s less likely to respond to
chemotherapy, said Daniel Grotzky, a company spokesman.  “We’re open to discussing limitations on the marketing,”
Grotzky said in a telephone interview today.  The Roche proposal also provides for a risk-evaluation
strategy to give doctors and patients more information about
Avastin’s effectiveness and risks. The follow-up patient trial
would include a biomarker to help determine which patients
benefit most. Roche had previously said it wanted to test a
hypothesis that higher levels of a protein in the blood known as
VEGF-A may identify whom the drug is likely to benefit.  Avastin is approved for lung, brain, kidney and colon
tumors. Doctors can prescribe the drug “off label” in breast
cancer even if approval is revoked, though insurers may no
longer pay the $8,100-a-month price. The treatment’s global
sales last year totaled 6.46 billion Swiss francs ($8.73
billion), or 14 percent of Roche’s revenue.  The drug remains on the market for breast cancer in  Europe .
It will remain available for U.S. breast cancer patients until
FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  makes a final ruling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Zurich at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  