-- 
Romanian June Industry, Export Growth Slows, Recovery May Weaken

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-08-09T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/romanian-june-industry-export-growth-slows-recovery-may-weaken.html
Romanian industrial output and export
growth slowed in June on muted demand for manufactured products,
a sign the Balkan country’s economic recovery may be weakening.  Production grew a seasonally adjusted 3.2 percent from a
year earlier after an 8 percent rise in May, the Bucharest-based
National Statistics Institute said in an e-mailed statement
today. Output fell 2.2 percent on the month. Exports rose 12
percent in June on the year, compared with 27 percent growth in
May, according to a separate statement from the institute.  Polish, Czech and Hungarian manufacturing indexes in July
signaled a slowdown in economic growth, pointing to a region-
wide weakening in economic momentum, as the U.S. and euro-area
economies lose steam.  Demand for Romanian exports such as Dacia SA cars and
industry, which grew 10 percent in the first quarter, pushed the
country’s economy out of the worst recession on record. The
economy grew 1.7 percent in the first quarter, ending a two-year
contraction.  Exports and industrial output will drive the economy’s 1.5
percent expansion this year after shrinking 1.3 percent in 2010,
according to the  International Monetary Fund . A good harvest in
2011 may boost growth beyond the central bank’s 1.5 percent
growth forecast, Governor Mugur Isarescu said yesterday.  Production of manufactured goods rose an annual 2.8 percent
in June from 7.8 percent in May on the year, while mining output
growth slowed to a yearly 5.7 percent from 16 percent.
Electricity and thermal energy output increased 5.2 percent.  Romania’s trade deficit narrowed in June to 850 million
euros ($1.2 billion) from a year earlier, compared with
a revised 1.2 billion-euro gap in May, the institute said today
in a separate statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  