-- 
Ruble ‘Panic’ Spurs Bank Rossii to Buy in Worst Drop on Record to Basket

-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-08-09T15:52:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/ruble-heads-for-biggest-drop-against-euro-in-almost-three-years-in-panic-.html
The ruble fell the most against the
central bank’s target dollar-euro basket on record as markets
retreated globally, prompting  Russia ’s central bank to buy the
currency.  The ruble depreciated 2.7 percent to 35.3831 against the
basket at the 7 p.m. close in Moscow, the sharpest daily decline
since the basket’s introduction in February 2005. Russia’s
currency lost 2.6 percent to 29.73 per dollar, making it the
worst performer against the greenback of 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, and was 2.8 percent weaker at
42.2925 versus the euro.  “This is clearly ongoing panic we’re seeing on the Russian
market,” Carolin Hecht, an emerging-markets currency strategist
at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said by e-mail. “Such sharp
ruble depreciation came out of the blue.  Oil prices  are down,
but not at levels which would be overly concerning.”  Emerging-market currencies and stocks tumbled today as
concern deepened that the global recovery will stall after
Standard & Poor’s U.S. credit downgrade last week. Crude,
Russia’s biggest export earner, dropped as much as 6.9 percent
to $75.71 a barrel in  New York .  The central bank intervened in the domestic  currency market 
today, Deputy Chairman Sergei Shvetsov said, without specifying
the size of the intervention, RIA Novosti reported.  Bank Rossii may have sold as much as $150 million of its
reserves today to stem the ruble’s decline, Alexey Borichev,
head of fixed-income and interest-rates trading at ING Groep NV
in Moscow, said by e-mail. The central bank did not immediately
return calls from Bloomberg News.  Corridor  The bank began managing the ruble’s exchange rate in
February 2005 against a currency basket comprised of about 55
percent dollars and 45 percent euros. The ruble’s rate against
the basket is determined by multiplying the dollar-ruble rate by
0.55 and the euro-ruble rate by 0.45, then adding the two
figures together.  Bank Rossii buys and sells foreign currency to keep the
ruble’s rate against the basket within a predetermined corridor,
expanding the parameters of the range once interventions top
$600 million. The basket is used to limit swings in the currency
that erode the competitiveness of Russia exporters.  The central bank “is likely to start selling hard
currency” whenever the ruble weakens beyond 35.25 against the
basket, VTB Capital analysts led by Alexey Yakovitsky wrote in a
research report Aug. 9. That happened at 12:30 p.m. in Moscow
today, Bloomberg data show.  Draining Reserves  Russia drained more than a third of its foreign-currency
reserves in the six months through January 2009 to slow a 35
percent slide in the ruble as commodity prices tumbled after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The stockpile has
climbed 12 percent this year and stood at $535 billion in the
week through July 29.  The regulator plans to maintain the ruble’s current trading
band, RIA cited Shvetsov as saying.  “The one saving grace for Russia now versus 2008 is that
they have a much more flexible exchange rate arrangement,”  Ivan Tchakarov , chief economist at  Renaissance Capital  in Moscow,
said today by e-mail. “They should not do anything unless we
see some very massive swings.”  Bank Rossii should let the ruble play a shock-absorbing
role given the intensifying global turbulence, he said. “If a
shock hits now, they should allow the ruble to take the hit, in
the hope that this will insulate the real economy to some
extent.”  Bonds Fall  Russian  government bonds  also fell today, pushing the yield
on domestic ruble notes due 2021 up a record 24 basis points, or
0.24 percentage point, to 8.07 percent. The yield on the dollar
Eurobond due in 2020 rose 10 basis points to 4.441 percent.  Non-deliverable forwards, which provide a guide to currency
movement trends and enable companies to hedge against them, show
the ruble at 30.1444 per dollar in three months, compared with
29.4113 yesterday.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps jumped 16 basis points to
197 basis points, according to data provider CMA, which is owned
by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. That’s the highest level since July
2010 based on closing prices, the data show.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Nicholson at 
 anicholson6@bloomberg.net  