-- 
Russia’s Micex Index Retreats 24% From April High on ’Wall of Selling’

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-08-09T16:57:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/russia-s-micex-retreats-20-from-april-high-on-global-economy-oil-decline.html
Russia ’s Micex fell to its lowest in
almost 10 months as investors retreated from riskier emerging
markets on concern the global equity rout will damp raw material
demand.  The Micex Index of 30 stocks dropped as much as 7.5 percent
before paring its decline to 0.1 percent at 1,497.81 by the 6:45
p.m. close in Moscow, the lowest since October. OAO Gazprom, the
natural gas export monopoly, slid 2.2 percent. OAO GMK Norilsk
Nickel, the country’s biggest miner, lost 2.9 percent. The
dollar-denominated RTS Index retreated 2.9 percent to 1,610.22.  Markets tumbled around the world and crude, Russia’s
biggest export earner, fell as much as $5.60, or 6.9 percent, to
$75.71 a barrel in  New York , the lowest intraday price since
Sept. 29. The Micex’s slide temporarily took its decline from an
April high to more than 20 percent, the threshold for a  bear
market .  “All of us are seeing redemptions, especially the long-
only and retail names,” Michael Kart , a managing partner at
hedge fund firm Spectrum Partners Ltd. said by phone in Moscow.
“There is a great wall of selling with a lot of people who want
to get out of the market at any price.”  Federal Reserve policy makers will meet today after the
unprecedented downgrade of the government’s top credit rating
shook investor confidence in America’s economic recovery. Oil
erased losses on bets Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may announce new
steps to pump up growth.  Defensive Steel Play  “Things have taken a turn for the better in anticipation
of today’s Fed policy statement,” Marco Casas, vice-president
of equity sales at Otkritie Capital, said in e-mailed comments.
“The Fed is under unprecedented pressure to stabilize the
markets.”  Russia’s oil exporters along with steel companies are a
“preferred defensive play,” because of the steep decline in
their prices over the past six days, VTB Capital analysts said
in a note today. OAO Severstal and OAO Magnitogorsk Iron &
Steel, which have both tumbled more than 18 percent in the
period, closed up 4.8 percent and 2.5 percent, respectively.  “The current selloff is already overdone,” the analysts,
led by Alexey Zabotkin, wrote. “A bounce is totally in the
cards unless there is an imminent systemic freeze of the funding
markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  