-- 
Rwanda’s Economic Growth Rate May Exceed 7% This Year, Central Bank Says

-- B y   H e a t h e r   M u r d o c k   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-08-09T11:44:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/rwanda-s-economic-growth-rate-may-exceed-7-this-year-central-bank-says.html
Rwanda ’s economic growth this year
may exceed the government’s 7 percent forecast because of
improved grain output and rising export revenue, central bank
Governor Claver Gatete said.  Food production  in the first half of 2011 expanded 11.3
percent, thanks to good weather and  government investment , while
output of green coffee dropped 19.9 percent and tea fell 3
percent, Gatete said in a statement on the website of the
Kigali-based central bank today. The East African nation’s
economy expanded 7.5 percent last year.  “We have seen that every sector has definitely improved
from the same period last year,” Gatete said today in an
interview in Kigali, Rwanda’s capital.  Rwanda doubled the size of its economy in the nine years to
2010 as it recovers from a 1994 genocide in which 800,000 mainly
ethnic Tutsis died. Driven mainly by commodities such as coffee,
tea and minerals, the value of exports from landlocked Rwanda in
the first half rose 48.1 percent to $156.1 million due mainly to
higher international prices for the goods, Gatete said.  The National Bank of Rwanda left the key lending rate
unchanged last month at 6 percent, where it’s been since
November, as price pressures remained “moderate,” he said.  Monetary policy makers at the central bank will probably
next meet in late September or early October to deliberate
whether to adjust the benchmark  interest rate , Gatete said.  Inflation in urban areas accelerated 5.8 percent in June,
compared with 4.5 percent in May, on higher food and fuel costs,
the Kigali-based  National Institute of Statistics  of Rwanda said
on July 15. The rate of annual inflation will probably end the
year at 7.5 percent or lower, Gatete said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Murdock in Kigali via Nairobi
at   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 