-- 
RWE Slumps After Quarterly Loss, Cutting Annual Outlook

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-08-09T16:17:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/rwe-profit-falls-on-declining-nuclear-profits.html
RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-largest
utility, slumped to a seven-year low in Frankfurt trading after
posting a quarterly loss and slashing full-year profit targets.  RWE fell 6.3 percent to 28.745 euros as of 5:30 p.m. local
time, the lowest closing price since Dec. 10, 2003. It reported 
a second-quarter net loss of 229 million euros ($326 million), 
the company’s first quarterly loss since 2007.  Germany’s decision in June to scrap the country’s 17 atomic
reactors as well as the expense of a new nuclear-fuel tax cost
RWE 900 million euros in the first half and will reduce 2011
earnings by 1.3 billion euros, Chief Financial Officer Rolf Pohlig said today on a conference call.  “The decisions made by the German government have led to
substantial financial burdens,” Chief Executive Officer  Juergen Grossmann  said in a statement. “The German government’s energy
concept also presents us with opportunities we would like to
make use of.”  Chancellor Angela Merkel  plans to phase out nuclear power
by 2022, replacing it with a combination of renewable energy and
fossil-fuel plants. The decision followed the disaster at
 Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, which sparked nuclear safety
concerns worldwide.  First-Half Net  Recurrent net income, the measure RWE uses to calculate its
dividend, sank 39 percent to 1.67 billion euros in the first
half from a year earlier, the Essen-based company said in the 
statement. That compares with the 1.7 billion-euro average 
estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Peter Terium will take over as CEO next July to oversee the
closure of RWE’s reactors, starting in 2016, the company said
yesterday. Grossmann is standing down earlier than expected
after struggling to cut debt from acquisitions and cope with new
taxes on nuclear power. Terium, 47, oversaw RWE’s acquisition of
the Dutch utility Essent NV in 2009.  “Due to the earlier-than-expected exit from nuclear
energy, the company has had to increase provisions for
decommissioning and dismantling its  power plants ,” RWE said.
“Lower electricity generation margins and an unusually weak
performance in our trading business led to a significant
earnings shortfall.”  Loss on Gas  RWE lost 591 million euros in its gas midstream business in
the first half, compared with a profit the year before.  The company said yesterday that 2011 earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization will be about 20
percent lower than a year earlier. Recurrent net income will be
about 35 percent lower. RWE will stick to a policy of paying out
50 percent to 60 percent of recurrent net income as dividends,
Grossmann said on the call.  The company is raising funds by selling assets and shares.
RWE raised its target for asset sales to 11 billion euros from 8
billion euros, and may divest its Czech NET4GAS gas-grid unit,
its stake in Berlin’s water supply, “selected German sales and
networks activities” and its RWE Dea oil and gas unit. The
utility plans to raise 2.5 billion euros in a stock sale.  Capital spending  rose 8 percent in the first half to 2.7
billion euros, while sales held steady at 27.5 billion euros.  Stock Sale  An additional 2.5 billion euros will be added to the
balance sheet through the sale of RWE treasury shares and the
partial use of authorized capital, the company said. The timing
of the stock sale will depend on the market, the utility said.  “Most uncertainties have now been addressed by RWE,”
Lueder Schumacher, an analyst at UniCredit in  London , said today
in a note. “The biggest risk to RWE now comes from the
commodity side, where high gearing into power prices could dent
the growth outlook if European electricity consumption shows
signs of slowing down again in light of the current crisis.”  Spot natural-gas prices in  Europe  fell more than 80 percent
during the recession. RWE, which buys gas at prices linked to
the cost of oil and sells at market rates, is in arbitration
over gas-purchase contracts with  Russia ’s OAO Gazprom, and
expects results in 2012 or 2013. In April the company sought to
“reach adjustments” allowing it to sell gas profitably in a
“structurally changed market,” Grossmann said.  RWE plans to trim spending, investing no more than 5
billion euros on its power plants and equipment in 2012 and
2013. In subsequent years, it will spend about 4 billion euros
annually, the utility said.  Electricity production declined 7 percent to 104.3 billion
kilowatt-hours in the first half because of the closure of the
Biblis nuclear station, RWE said. Power sales were at a similar
level as last year, it said, adding that the number of customers
in  Germany  rose to 6.9 million. Gas sales fell 18 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  