-- 
S&P Won’t Downgrade More Munis After 11,500 Cut on U.S. Rating

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r ,   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-08-10T16:34:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/s-p-says-many-munis-can-keep-aaa-after-downgrade-of-11-500-linked-to-u-s-.html
Standard & Poor’s , which lowered
thousands of municipal-bond ratings tied to the federal
government, won’t make further downgrades until details of U.S.
spending cuts are settled.  “We don’t have enough information,” Steve Murphy,
managing director of U.S. public finance for the ratings
company, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “We know the
states that are reliant on the federal government, we know the
locals that are reliant on the federal government, but we don’t
know what the cuts are.”  S&P cut about 11,500 securities to AA+ in the $2.9 trillion
municipal-bond market after the company downgraded the U.S.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They include school-
construction bonds in Irving,  Texas ; debt backed by a federal
lease in Miami; and a bond series for multifamily housing in
Oceanside,  California .  On Aug. 2, the Senate voted 74-26 to raise the nation’s
debt ceiling until 2013 along with automatic spending cuts to
enforce $2.4 trillion in reductions in the next 10 years. It
followed an agreement in the  House of Representatives .  While the measure specifies $917 billion in discretionary
spending cuts over 10 years, the rest is left to a panel of 12
members of Congress, split evenly between Republicans and
Democrats, which is supposed to come up with recommendations by
Nov. 23.  Assessing the Impact  “The vote on the bill is due by Dec. 23, so we’ll know
what we need to know as far as what the impact on municipalities
is going to be,” Murphy said in a conference call today.  The ratings company is waiting for information about size,
location, type and duration of spending cuts, he said. When the
details are released it won’t just be top-rated issuers
affected, he said.  “We’re talking about all our credits on a case-by-case
basis,” Murphy said.  The Aug. 8 rating cuts also affected debt backed by federal
mortgage guarantors  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  and so-called
pre-refunded bonds, which are paid off with income from
Treasuries bought with borrowed funds. No state general-
obligation ratings were changed, and S&P said many borrowers
should remain AAA.  “They made it clear that there are going to be states that
can continue to be AAA, and that was a concern,” said  Tom Kozlik , director of municipal credit analysis for Philadelphia
brokerage Janney Montgomery Scott.  Top Grades  Both Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings kept their
top grades for the U.S. government last week. Moody’s said the
outlook was negative.  States and local governments are “well-insulated from
capital markets volatility because they do not depend on  market
access  to meet their most critical funding requirements,”
Moody’s said today in a report.  S&P still scores the general-obligation debt of nine states
AAA. The country’s “decentralized governmental structure”
calls for an independent review of state and local government
credits, 3.9 percent of which have AAA ratings, S&P said. A
state rating generally can only be one level above the federal
government, Murphy said.  Individual Fright  Institutional money managers are worried that individual
investors, who depend more heavily on credit analysis companies,
will start selling their municipal holdings, said R.J. Gallo,
who manages about $900 million as a senior vice president at
Pittsburgh-based Federated Investors.  “If it prompts them to sell munis, it has a price impact,
and then I might react in terms of what bonds I want to sell or
buy,” Gallo said in a telephone interview.  Investors withdrew about $861 million from U.S. municipal-
bond mutual funds in the week through Aug. 3, according to
Denver-based Lipper U.S. Fund Flows. It was the second straight
week of net withdrawals and the biggest since April.  The S&P downgrades had been anticipated and didn’t remove
market uncertainty, said Neil Klein, who manages $925 million in
fixed-income assets at Carret Asset Management LLP in  New York .  Kozlik said S&P would likely publicize any state rating
cuts by first changing its outlook, as is traditionally done.  S&P, in lowering the U.S. on Aug. 5 from AAA, cited
politics in congressional negotiations to increase the federal
debt ceiling and said lawmakers failed to reduce spending
enough.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net 
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  