-- 
Fire MBAs, Race Like Rats -- Surviving a Double Dip: Books

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-08-09T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/sack-your-mbas-embrace-the-rat-race-how-to-survive-a-double-dip-books.html
U.S. labor isn’t working, to borrow
 Margaret Thatcher ’s slogan, and many investors are bracing for a
 double-dip  recession. With about one out of every six American
workers unemployed or underemployed, what to do?  Learn to love the rat race, advises hedge-fund veteran Todd Buchholz. Sack the MBA-educated bean counters, says auto
executive Bob Lutz. Manage the Mafia way, counsels  Louis
Ferrante , a tough guy turned motivational speaker.  These, I kid not, are the recommendations of three new
books that address, in wildly different ways, a question
bedeviling advanced economies: How can we revive growth?
Especially now when output is stalling, S&P downgrades the
U.S.’s credit rating to AA+ from AAA, stock markets gyrate and
full employment exists only for bickering politicians.  Start with Buchholz, whose mercurial  career  has included
stints as a Harvard economics teacher, a White House adviser,
and a managing director at  Julian Robertson ’s Tiger Management
LLC hedge fund. In “Rush,” he argues that competition -- the
mad race to get ahead and one-up the Joneses -- isn’t the root
of evil, as social critics aver. It’s the source of happiness.  Preposterous, you say? Buchholz himself once thought so. He
originally set out to write a book positing the opposite:
Americans were losing their souls by chasing ever more money,
success and tummy tucks.  Survival, Mojitos  That theory fell apart, he says, as he delved into the
findings of neuroscience, anthropology and behavioral economics.
His conclusion: Competition and happiness are so interconnected
that we can’t have one without the other, no matter how much we
long to go on vacation or even, heaven forbid, retire.  “Happiness is not a peaceful, frictionless bliss,” he
says. “That would be mixing up happiness with dozing off to
sleep.”  Like it or not, thousands of years of evolution have burned
competitiveness into our DNA, driving humans to develop
lifesaving vaccines as well as bank-killing financial
instruments. Though we yearn to return to the Garden of Eden,
our minds and bodies are designed to maximize survival, not to
ensure happiness. We’re programmed to overcome poverty and fight
off predators, not guzzle mojitos while channel surfing.  Happy Momentum  Our frontal lobes, for example, are time machines that
allow us to imagine and plan for the future. Programmed to think
about tomorrow, we tend to feel happy when our lives have
forward momentum, Buchholz says. Especially if the momentum
leaves the Joneses eating our dust.  Part pop professor, part circus barker, Buchholz is
consistently provocative, though he sometimes crosses the line
between funny and forced. “Socrates said the unexamined life is
not worth living,” he says. “True, I suppose. But the
overexamined life is not worth living, either.”  That comment would make a fitting epigraph for Lutz’s book,
“Car Guys vs. Bean Counters.” Here, in outspoken detail, the
former vice chairman of  General Motors Co. (GM)  describes how
executives armed with master’s degrees in business
administration drove America’s biggest automaker into the ground
by being “too clever by half,” as the Brits say.  GM’s Flaw  Yes, union demands contributed to GM’s ignominious skid
into  bankruptcy protection . Government meddling didn’t help,
either. Then there’s the murderous cost advantage Japanese and
European carmakers hold: Their health-care expenditures are
nonexistent or minimal thanks to universal medical coverage
funded by taxes on society as a whole, as Lutz reminds us.  Yet GM’s fatal flaw was more insidious, Lutz suggests. The
outfit that spawned both sleek Camaros and tinny Vegas became
mired, he says, in “the deliberate intellectualizing of a very
simple task: creating and selling a meaningfully superior
product or service to the public.”  This deep dysfunction became clear to Lutz just weeks
before he rejoined the company in 2001. Sitting on a patio with
chief designer Wayne Cherry, he flipped through binders
containing photos of cars under development.  “It was a horror show,” he writes, recalling the parade
of clunky clay models.  GM’s product-development system, it turns out, was giving
powerful senior executives, not designers, the final say on how
a car would look, he says. The execs were understandably
preoccupied with quantifiable objectives, such as assembly time,
warranty costs, percentage of reused parts and speed of
execution. This MBA-driven process, however well intentioned,
produced “perfect mediocrity.”  ‘Mob Rules’  If number crunchers are choking your enterprise, take tips
from what Ferrante calls “the longest-running corporation in
history,” the Mafia. A self-professed former associate of the
Gambino family, he presents 88 management lessons in “Mob
Rules: What the Mafia Can Teach the Legitimate Businessman.”  His topics range from confidence building (“why a mobster
makes his son pull the trigger”) to networking (“it’s good to
go to a funeral as long as it’s not yours”). What we get is
common sense dressed up as parables about executions and how to
avoid ending up in a car trunk.  Ferrante, who wised up after doing time in prison, closes
the book on a cautionary note about the risks of surrendering to
our most primitive instincts. You should read Machiavelli’s
“The Prince,” he advises, only to learn “how low your
competitors may stoop, and then rise above the muck.”  “Rush” is published by  Hudson Street  (304 pages, $29.95).
“Car Guys vs. Bean Counters” (241 pages, $26.95) and “Mob
Rules” (248 pages, $25.95) are both from Portfolio/Penguin.  To buy these books in  North America , click  here  for
“Rush,”  here  for “Car Guys vs. Bean Counters” and  here  for
“Mob Rules.”  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 