-- 
HSBC Says It’s in Talks to Sell U.S. Card, Retail Business

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-08-09T18:49:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/hsbc-confirms-talks-to-sell-u-s-card-and-retail-businesses.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (5)  is in talks to sell
its U.S. card and retail services unit as it pares North
American operations to focus on faster-growing emerging markets
and retail banking in the U.K.  “These discussions are ongoing and no decision has yet
been made to proceed with any transaction,” the London-based
bank said in a filing today.  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  is in
advanced talks to purchase the credit-card portfolio, a person
familiar with the discussions said yesterday.  The negotiations follow HSBC’s agreement on July 31 to sell
almost half its U.S. outlets for about $1 billion amid a drop in
the value of assets acquired when it bought a subprime lender in
2003.  Europe ’s largest bank plans to eliminate 30,000 jobs by
the end of 2013 to curtail expenses and last month sold assets
in  Russia  and said it will shut branches in  Poland .  “The disposal of assets will be positive for HSBC,” Sandy Mehta, chief executive officer for Hong Kong-based Value
Investment Principals Ltd., said today in a phone interview.
“HSBC is in a good position that it is not a forced seller. It
is well capitalized so it can take the time. It’s not
distressed.”  ‘Sensible Price’  The U.K. bank acquired the credit-card unit in 2003 as part
of its $15.5 billion purchase of subprime-mortgage lender
 Household International , now known as HSBC Finance. In 2009,
HSBC halted consumer-finance lending at the unit, which has
contributed to about $60 billion of provisions in  North America ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The card unit holds about $33 billion in customer loans,
HSBC said in a May 11  presentation . About $13.6 billion of those
were for private-label, or store-branded cards, at year-end
2010, said  David Robertson , publisher of the Nilson Report, a
payment-industry trade publication. The private-label portfolio
represents about 14 percent of the market, making it third-
largest in the U.S. behind General Electric Co.’s 40 percent and
Citigroup Inc., with 22 percent, Robertson said.  The business is profitable and “non-strategic,” and a
sale will depend on whether the bank gets a “sensible price,”
HSBC Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver , 52, said in the
May presentation to investors. The proposed job cuts exclude
employees leaving when assets are sold, he said last week.  Shares Decline  HSBC fell 1.3 percent to 545 pence in London trading today.
The bank has declined 16 percent this year.  First-half net income rose to $9.22 billion from $6.76
billion a year earlier, HSBC said last week. That beat the $7.82
billion median estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Bad-loan provisions in the North American business fell to $3
billion from $4.55 billion, the lender said.  HSBC agreed on July 31 to sell its upstate  New York  branch
network to First Niagara Financial Group Inc. The price amounted
to a 6.7 percent premium for the $15 billion of deposits along
with 195 branches in New York and  Connecticut  that were sold,
according to HSBC’s statement.  For Capital One, the transaction would be the second after
it agreed in June to purchase ING Groep NV’s U.S. online bank
for $9 billion. The ING deal, which McLean, Virginia-based
Capital One said will be completed by late this year or early
2012, will add about $80 billion in deposits and 7 million
customers.  “HSBC tends to focus on larger, more well-known
retailers” such as Saks Fifth Avenue, Robertson said. “This
would allow Capital One to reach scale in a new business,” he
said. The lender made its first foray into private-label credit
cards with the acquisition of a Kohl’s Department Stores
portfolio earlier this year, Robertson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at   csomayaji@bloomberg.net  