-- 
Scott Wants Clubs to Speak Louder Than Caddie at Golf’s PGA Championship

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-08-09T18:23:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/scott-wants-clubs-to-speak-louder-than-caddie-at-golf-s-pga-championship.html
Steve Williams went from refusing to
talk to the media while caddying for Tiger Woods, to talking too
much. Now, he’s not speaking at all again.  That’s exactly the way Adam Scott wants it this week at the
PGA Championship.  “Hopefully we’ll just go and let our clubs do the talking
for the rest of the week,” Scott said during a press conference
at the  Atlanta Athletic Club  in Johns Creek, Georgia, where the
golf season’s final major tournament begin Aug. 11.  Williams has been criticized by players, other caddies and
members of the news media for describing Scott’s victory at the
Bridgestone Invitational on Aug. 7 as the “most satisfying win
of my career.” He won 72 tournaments, including 13 majors, in
12 years with Woods, who fired him last month. Woods finished
the Bridgestone tied for 37th and hasn’t won in almost two
years.  Woods hasn’t commented publicly about Williams’s statements
and isn’t scheduled for a news conference at the  PGA  until
tomorrow. Scott, when asked today about Williams’s comments,
fidgeted and looked away from the microphone several times.  “Steve was obviously delighted to win, as was I,” he
said. “And you know, speaking with a bit of emotion probably. I
certainly don’t think it was his intention to steal my moment.
With a lot of things related to Tiger Woods, it’s all
scrutinized and blown out of proportion. This is no different.”  Scott, a 31-year-old Australian, said he spoke briefly with
Williams about his comments and the two have agreed to try to
put it behind them.  “We’ve had our chat about the whole thing,” Scott said.
“Having a quiet word with Steve is not very easy. He’s a big
guy, you know.”  Bad Timing  British Open winner Darren Clarke, who said he has had
caddies not speak to him for an entire 18 holes over a
disagreement, said Williams might have chosen the wrong time to
talk.  “It’s knowing when to speak and when not to speak,”
Clarke said in a press conference. “I think the best caddies in
the world have learned the art of understanding their player and
knowing what to say and when to say it, and that’s a hard thing
to find because not everybody gets along and has the same
views.”  Instead of getting angry at his caddie, Scott said, he
planned to use Williams’s words as an emotional boost as he
seeks to win his first major title.  “If he really feels that that was one of his great wins,
I’m kind of flattered and it fills me with confidence,” said
Scott, whose win in Akron, Ohio, was his first in a U.S. PGA
Tour event since the 2010 Texas Open.  Williams wasn’t hanging around the interview area during
his new employer’s press conference today. He told Foxsports.com
yesterday that the reaction to his comments was “over the
top.”  “I had a lot of anger in me about what happened and it all
came out,” Williams said. “I said what I said but I’m not
going to say any more about Tiger. It’s time to move on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  