-- 
SEC Fraud Suits Undercut by Supreme Court Ruling Shielding Execs

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-08-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/sec-fraud-suits-undercut-by-supreme-court-ruling-shielding-execs.html
For three years, former AOL Inc.
executives Steven Rindner and Mark Wovsaniker have fought
regulators’ claims that they helped their company artificially
inflate advertising revenue just before its ill-fated 2001
merger with  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  In June, the U.S. Supreme Court
gave them reason to hope.  The ruling, which effectively shrinks the universe of
people who can be sued for making false statements in financial
filings, has sent the Securities and Exchange Commission rushing
to salvage lawsuits against the former AOL executives and at
least eight other people, court filings show.  SEC lawyers also are reviewing a slate of open
investigations to determine if they’re still viable, according
to three people briefed on the matter, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  The court’s June 13 decision, which held that only those
ultimately responsible for corporate statements can be sued for
fraud, halted a legal approach dating back to the 2001 Enron
Corp. collapse that the SEC used to pursue behind-the-scenes
lawyers and accountants.  The ruling may force the SEC to pursue more executives on
claims of aiding and abetting, rather than fraud. That might
shield them from private lawsuits and place a higher burden on
the agency to detail all a scheme’s actors and their roles, said
 James Cox , a securities law professor at  Duke University .  “The court really opened up a conundrum for the SEC,” Cox
said. “Every case becomes a policy question because of the
potential collateral consequences.”  Far-Reaching Effects  While the Janus ruling dealt with the responsibilities of
corporate entities rather than individuals, it has far-reaching
effects on the SEC’s Rule 10b-5, which says it’s illegal “to
make any untrue statement” in the purchase or sale of a
security. The SEC has built cases for years on the presumption
that the rule can be applied to anyone who substantially
participates in creating a false statement, not just those who
sign a fraudulent document.  The statements at issue in the Janus case involved a
practice known as market timing -- the short-term buying,
selling and exchanging of securities to exploit pricing
inefficiencies. While legal, it can disadvantage other investors
in a mutual fund.  Janus Investment Fund, which offers mutual funds, said in
its prospectuses that it was taking steps to deter the practice.
Instead, the funds had entered into secret arrangements to let
some preferred clients engage in market timing, then-New York
Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer  claimed in September 2003. Shares
of Janus Capital Group, which created the mutual funds as a
separate legal entity and managed them through a subsidiary,
plunged almost 25 percent. Janus paid about $225 million in 2004
to settle claims by Spitzer, Colorado regulators and the SEC,
without admitting or denying wrongdoing.  ‘Inflated’ Shares  First Derivative Traders sued Janus Capital, claiming the
firm and a subsidiary that provided investment advisory services
to the mutual funds were responsible for the misleading
statements. The lawsuit said Janus’s share price was
artificially inflated as a result.  In a 5-4 decision, the Supreme Court ruled for Janus
Capital, finding that as a separate legal entity from the mutual
funds it can’t be held responsible for “making” the
statements. Justice  Clarence Thomas  wrote in the majority
opinion that only the person or entity with “ultimate
authority” over the statement can be considered its “maker”
under the rule.  “Even when a speechwriter drafts a speech, the content is
entirely within the control of the person who delivers it,”
Thomas said in the opinion. “And it is the speaker who takes
credit -- or blame -- for what is ultimately said.”  Narrowing Scope  The decision was a defeat for private litigants seeking
deeper pockets by suing entities behind a fraud.  Supreme Court 
decisions dating back to 1994 prohibit investors from suing
anyone who wasn’t a so-called primary violator directly
responsible for perpetrating a fraud. Thomas’s opinion further
narrows the scope of private lawsuits.  While the extent of the decision’s impact on SEC
enforcement is less clear, the agency is already changing tack.  The SEC sued Rindner and Wovsaniker in 2008, three years
after the merged company, AOL Time Warner, agreed to pay $300
million to resolve SEC allegations that AOL improperly booked
advertising sales to inflate the company’s revenue ahead of the
merger. AOL settled without admitting or denying the claims, and
four executives have paid $8 million to do the same.  Claiming a ‘Scheme’  The SEC said Wovsaniker, 55, the company’s former head of
accounting policy, provided advice on how to structure and
document improper transactions and Rindner, 43, who worked in
AOL’s business affairs unit, helped carry them out.  Following the Janus decision, lawyers for Rindner and
Wovsaniker said in court filings that their clients didn’t have
control over the statements at the center of the SEC’s
allegations. The SEC dropped certain claims, conceding that the
Janus decision protected the two former AOL executives from some
of the allegations. Still, the agency argues that other
provisions of Rule 10b-5 allow it to sue people for
participating in a “scheme” to defraud.  “The SEC cannot escape the inevitable consequences of the
Supreme Court’s decision in Janus by attempting to recast its
misrepresentation claims,” Wovsaniker said in a July 11 court
filing. The “logic and broad sweep of the Supreme Court’s
analysis in Janus fatally undermines” the SEC’s case, the
filing said.  ‘Big Premium’  That remains to be determined by U.S. judges, according to
George Canellos, head of the SEC’s regional office in  New York .
There will be “a big premium on judicial scrutiny of what
scheme liability means,” he said at a July 20 securities law
event in New York.  In at least one decision, the SEC has gotten a favorable
result. In  San Francisco , U.S. District Judge William Alsup
ruled Aug. 1 that Kimon Daifotis and Randall Merk, former
Charles Schwab Corp. executives who were sued for making false
statements in marketing the company’s YieldPlus funds, still had
to face some of the claims that they had challenged based on
Janus.  Other courts may decide differently, and the motions to
throw out SEC cases based on the Janus decision are piling up.  Among the defendants making such filings are  Matthew Tannin , the former Bear Stearns & Co. managing director who was
acquitted in a 2009 criminal case after losing $1.6 billion of
investors’ money; Lisa Berry, who was sued by the SEC for her
role in allegedly backdating options while general counsel for
two companies, Juniper Networks, Inc. and KLA-Tencor Corp.; and
Susan Skaer, the former general counsel of Mercury Interactive
LLC, who was also sued for backdating options.  Diebold and InfoGroup  Others include Sandra Miller, who was accused of making
false statements as the former director of corporate accounting
at Diebold Inc.; and Rajnish Das and Stormy Dean, two former
chief financial officers of infoGroup, Inc. who were accused of
making false financial statements that hid a fraud.  Lawyers for Wovsaniker, Rindner, Berry, Skaer, Daifotis,
Merk, Miller and Tannin either declined to comment or didn’t
reply to requests for comment.  To be sure, the SEC has other ways to pursue individuals
who take part in making false statements even if they weren’t
liable under Rule 10b-5 as primary violators.  Aiding and Abetting  The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
authorized the agency to bring aiding and abetting claims
against anyone who provides “substantial assistance” to others
in a fraud. Last year, the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory
expanded that power to permit the SEC to sue an individual who
“recklessly” aids a fraud even if the person isn’t aware of
the wrongdoing. Previously, regulators had the heavier burden of
proving the person knowingly assisted the misconduct. Dodd-Frank
also clarifies so-called control person liability, enabling the
agency to hold senior officers, directors or other executives
accountable for misconduct by people they manage.  Before Janus, those provisions “weren’t all that important
because the scope of direct liability was pretty broad,” the
SEC’s Canellos said at the New York event. Now, they’re more
significant, he said.  In the wake of the Janus ruling, the agency is going to
have to be a lot more precise about who did what, said James Meyers, an attorney at Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP, who
represents Berry and Skaer.  “Typically, companies either cooperate and aren’t charged
or settle without admitting or denying the allegations,” Meyers
said. “It’s harder for the SEC to argue to a jury that an
individual aided and abetted a company’s fraud if the company
itself was never charged.”  Breyer Dissent  The possibility that the Janus ruling might box in the
SEC’s other powers was raised by Supreme Court Justice  Stephen Breyer  in his dissent. Breyer said that if management drafted a
prospectus with false statements that was approved unknowingly
by the directors, the managers wouldn’t be liable as principals,
and “there would be no other primary violator they might have
tried to ‘aid’ and ‘abet’.”  Adam Pritchard, a  University of Michigan  law professor who
previously served in the SEC’s Office of the General Counsel,
said such concerns may be overblown. He said SEC lawyers could
proceed with fraud cases without invoking Rule 10b-5 and bet
that they will hold up in the longer term.  “It wouldn’t get back to the Supreme Court for several
years at a minimum,” Pritchard said. “So, they can read it
narrowly and see if they can get away with it, and the court may
be a different court by the time it gets there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  