-- 
Skyjacker D.B. Cooper Still Sparks Obsession, Songs, Book Deals

-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 
2011-08-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/skyjacker-d-b-cooper-still-sparks-obsession-songs-book-deals.html
On Nov. 24, 1971, a mystery man
carrying $200,000 jumped out of a Northwest Orient 727 into a
rainy night sky.  The man called himself Dan Cooper (a reporter’s
misunderstanding changed it forever to D.B.). He had boarded the
Portland-Seattle flight, claimed to have a bomb in his briefcase
and demanded money and a parachute.  The initial manhunt proved futile, as did ceaseless efforts
by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation . Yet Cooper can be found
everywhere as folk hero, celebrated in songs and annual parties,
in a  1981 movie  starring Treat Williams, in numerous nonfiction
books and at least one novel.  Geoffrey Gray opens his entry in the Cooper library,
“ Skyjack: The Hunt for D.B. Cooper ,” with tantalizing details
about a private eye named Skipp Porteous, who thought he had a
big break in the case a few years ago through a client who
wanted to interest director Nora Ephron in making a movie about
it. Gray goes on to describe how he, like so many over the past
four decades, went from curious to obsessive in trying to nail
down Cooper’s true identity.  Gray’s digging includes exclusive access to FBI files --“a
morgue of dead-end leads, futile reports and bureaucratic
bilge” -- and following tips like Porteous-Ephron. (A man who
said he could I.D. Cooper wanted the director of “Sleepless in
 Seattle ” to make a hijack movie, maybe called “The Bashful Man
in Seattle.”)  Bay of Pigs  The writer will also encounter a link to James Earl Ray, a
stewardess who becomes a nun, a connection to the Bay of Pigs,
and a theory that “the vast majority of hijackers had
effeminate mannerisms and homosexual urges.”  “I can’t remember what I am looking for,” Gray writes
amid myriad frustrations. “The ghost of a closeted airline
purser who lived with young boys and looked exactly like an FBI
sketch that may not have looked like the hijacker at all?”  Gray learns that his prime suspect seemed about to confess
on his death bed, and then didn’t: “’There’s something you
should know, ... but I can’t tell you!’”  The private eye appears to have the goods, but “‘I can’t
tell you’” Porteous says. Why, Gray asks. “‘I’m writing my own
book.’”  So Gray writes his own book, and it’s a lot of fun, maybe
the perfect beach read, full of intriguing facts and factoids,
conspiracies and context, delivered at times with  Elmore Leonard 
pace and punch, and with a reporter’s good intentions. The
author wants after all to be first with a huge piece of news.  Gray Gets Around  So what happens 10 days before his book’s scheduled
publication?  July 31: In a  New York  magazine blog, Gray comments
skeptically on a report that the FBI has a new suspect.  Aug. 2: Leading the New York Times National section is a
headline reading, “ Forty Years Later, A Tip With Potential in a
Famous Case .” It’s the new-suspect story. The paper provides an
expert’s comment from one “Geoffrey Gray, a journalist who has
contributed to The Times.”  Aug. 3: The Times website reports that a woman named Marla
Cooper has told ABC News and  CNN  that her uncle was D.B. Cooper.
The woman says she “is working on a book about her uncle.”  Aug. 6-7: The Review section of the Wall Street Journal’s
weekend paper carries an article headlined “ The Curse of D.B.
Cooper ” that sketches 4 decades of frustration in the hunt for
Cooper. The peg is the FBI-Marla reports. The first sentence
reads: “The fix is in.”  Aug. 7: The Times carries an opinion piece under the
headline “ A Mystery We Really Don’t Want to Solve .” The peg is
the FBI-Marla reports. The first sentence reads: “The guy is
dead.”  The author of those last two articles? One Geoffrey Gray,
described both times as the author of “Skyjack.”  Coincidence?  Or conspiracy?  “Skyjack: The Hunt for D. B. Cooper” by Geoffrey Gray is
published by Crown (302 pages, $25). To order the book in  North
America , click  here .  (Jeffrey Burke is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 