-- 
SNB’s Franc Dilemma May Force Intervention Even After $36 Billion Losses

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-08-10T07:31:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/snb-s-franc-dilemma-may-force-intervention-even-after-36-billion-losses.html
Switzerland ’s central bank may be
forced to resume currency interventions for the first time in
more than a year in a move that could burden it with billions of
francs in further losses.  Officials led by Swiss National Bank President Philipp Hildebrand face a choice between allowing the currency to extend
record gains or seeking to mitigate its impact on the economy.
Any intervention risks exacerbating the central bank’s
accumulated loss of $36 billion in the 1 1/2 years through June.  “They’re caught between a rock and a hard place,” said
David Marmet, an economist at Zuercher Kantonalbank in Zurich.
“But at the end of the day, they might not have a choice.”  The SNB unexpectedly cut its benchmark rate to zero from
0.25 percent on Aug. 3 and renewed its pledge to curb the
“massively overvalued” franc, which is choking exports. While
Hildebrand said the same week the measure “isn’t meant to be
symbolic,” investor concern that the euro region’s fiscal
crisis will worsen continued to push the franc toward parity.  The franc traded at 1.0431 versus the euro at 9:29 a.m. in
Zurich after reaching a record 1.0075 yesterday. Against the
dollar, the currency was at 72.59 centimes after climbing to an
all-time high of 70.71 centimes yesterday.  SNB Measures  The SNB said in a  statement today  it will “significantly”
increase the supply of liquidity to banks by expanding sight
deposits to 120 billion francs ($165 billion) from 80 billion
francs. It will also conduct foreign-exchange swap transactions,
a tool last used in 2008. The central bank said it’s ready to
take further measures if needed.  “The substantial rise in  risk aversion  on the
international financial markets has further intensified the
overvaluation of the franc in the last few days,” the SNB said.
It “poses a threat to the development of the economy in
Switzerland and has further increased downside risks to  price
stability .”  The SNB quadrupled its holdings of foreign currencies in
the 15 months through mid-June 2010 to keep a lid on the franc.
While the central bank said the measure helped fight deflation
threats, the policy sparked a record loss of $21 billion last
year and prompted lawmakers to call for Hildebrand to resign.  Intervention Round  With the franc continuing to strengthen, the SNB may take
further hits. The central bank’s first-half loss widened to 10.8
billion francs from 2.78 billion francs.  The currency is 43 currently percent overvalued against the
euro, based on purchasing power parity as measured by the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  While the SNB’s “latest round of interventions was mixed
at best, the recent franc appreciation has apparently been
strong enough to make the SNB consider resorting to such a step
again,”  Dirk Schumacher , an economist at  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  in  Frankfurt , said in a note.  Swiss companies face increasing pressure to cut costs to
protect earnings. Daniel Frutig, chief executive officer of AFG
Arbonia-Forster Holding AG, said on Aug. 3 the maker of heating
technology is losing money every day. ABB Ltd., the world’s
largest maker of power-transmission gear, has called the franc’s
ascent “challenging.”  Swiss Slowdown  Switzerland’s economy is already cooling. Consumers grew
more pessimistic about the outlook and job prospects in July,
the KOF economic indicator dropped to the lowest since February
2010 and investor confidence slumped. The government held an
extraordinary meeting on the franc on Aug. 8 and  forecast  growth
to weaken over the coming months.  “More and more investors are parking their money in the
franc,” said Jan Amrit Poser, chief economist at Bank Sarasin
in Zurich. “No economy on earth can cope with such a loss of
competitiveness.”  Hildebrand, 48, toughened his tone in an interview with
 Neue Zuercher Zeitung  published Aug. 5, saying the SNB “won’t
tolerate a further” franc gain.  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit Group in Munich,
said the threat of a renewed recession may prompt the SNB to
intervene as early as this month.  “The SNB’s recent announcement to take further measures if
necessary has become more credible,” he said. “Investors may
be reluctant to fight attempts to weaken an already overvalued
currency. There’s a 70 percent chance of the SNB acting this
month.”  ‘Resolve’  The franc appreciated about 7 percent against the euro in
the 15 months through mid-June, 2010, when the SNB last tried to
stem gains. It may have to spend at least 200 billion francs in
a renewed attempt to weaken the franc, according to Daniel Kalt,
chief Swiss economist at UBS AG in Zurich.  “I doubt that the SNB will find other central banks for a
coordinated intervention,” he said. “The franc is so massively
overvalued that the SNB may be successful even if they go it
alone if only to show resolve and determination.”  While  Richard Benson , a London-based  executive director  at
Millennium Asset Management, who helps oversee $14 billion of
currency funds, sees a “high probability” of the franc
reaching parity with the euro, You-Na Park, a strategist at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, said renewed interventions are
“very likely” should the franc continue to appreciate.  “Even if interventions in the current environment won’t
lead to a lasting devaluation of the franc, the SNB should be
able to stabilize the franc,” Park said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  