-- 
Somalia’s Government Offers Amnesty to Rebel Fighters Still in Mogadishu

-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r
-- 
2011-08-09T14:47:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/somalia-s-government-offers-amnesty-to-rebel-fighters-still-in-mogadishu.html
Somalia ’s government offered a
general amnesty to Islamic insurgents still in Mogadishu, three
days after their al-Shabaab movement withdrew from the capital.  The offer was decided on at a Cabinet meeting to discuss
the security situation in Mogadishu following the rebels’ Aug. 6
pullout, Somalia’s Western-backed government said in an e-mailed
statement today.  The state will “guarantee the safety of any al-Shabaab who
complies with the call immediately,” the government spokesman,
Abdiraham Omar Osman, said in a phone interview today from the
city. “They should exploit this golden opportunity.”  Al-Shabaab, which has pledged allegiance to al-Qaeda, has
waged a four-year insurgency against the administration of
President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed and controls most of
southern and central Somalia. The rebel group’s withdrawal comes
after the United Nations declared a famine in five regions of
the country amid the worst drought in 60 years.  Al-Shabaab’s withdrawal was a “tactical” move, spokesman
Sheikh Ali Mohamud Rage said on Aug. 6 in comments aired on  Holy
Quran Radio , a Mogadishu-based broadcaster.  The militants’ decision to quit Mogadishu was a
“tremendous step forward for the nation,” the government said
today. It urged Somalis to work with the government to secure
the city.  Mogadishu is still under threat even though as much as 95
percent of its area has been “liberated” since the withdrawal
of al-Shabaab, the  African Union peacekeeping mission  in
Somalia, also known as Amisom, said in an e-mailed statement
today.  More Troops  The force said it needs more troops as well as funds for
coastal forces and helicopters as it tries to smooth the way for
aid deliveries and avert attacks.  “The concern is that insurgents will seek to focus their
efforts on an asymmetric campaign, threatening the government,
the security of the civilian populace and humanitarian relief
efforts,” Amisom said.  The  United Nations  last year authorized an increase in the
number of African Union peacekeepers in Somalia to 12,000, up
from 9,000 Ugandan and Burundian soldiers now. The 53-member
African bloc wants the operation to expand to 20,000 troops.  Somalia has been mired in a civil war for two decades and
hasn’t had a functioning central government since the 1991
ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre.  The Cabinet also agreed to establish a special-forces unit
to maintain law and order in areas abandoned by the rebel
fighters until the Somali police force can fully take over,
according to the statement.  The government pledged to “ensure that all criminal
activities will be dealt with swiftly by the courts in order to
deter any attempts of hindering the on-going security
operations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 