-- 
Sony U.K. Warehouse Set Ablaze as Violence From London Riots Escalates

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-08-09T12:26:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/sony-says-u-k-warehouse-may-be-on-fire-after-london-rioting.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  said a warehouse
containing Blu-ray discs, CDs and DVDs was damaged in a fire
following the riots in London.  The fire, which started about 11:30 p.m. yesterday, took 11
fire engines to contain and was  described  by the Metropolitan
Police as “suspicious.” The warehouse in Enfield, north
London, is still smoldering, and the company is not yet able to
assess damage, Sony said in a statement from its U.K. offices.
No employees were injured, the company said.  “We’re not entirely able to assess the stock levels
because we’re not on site,” said spokeswoman Claire Millington
in a telephone interview. “We will do anything we can to
minimize delay to our customers,” she said.  Riot police and firefighters were deployed yesterday as the
riots, triggered after a Tottenham man was shot and killed by
police, continued for a third night. More than 450 people have
been arrested in connection with the  London  unrest, according to
authorities. Disturbances occurred in Hackney in east London,
and Lewisham, Peckham and Croydon in the southeast and south of
the city.  The warehouse only stored discs and didn’t contain game
consoles or televisions, Yoko Yasukochi, a Tokyo-based Sony
spokeswoman said, declining to elaborate on the number of discs
that may have been damaged in the fire. She also declined to say
whether the facility is covered for damages by insurance.  Sony fell 1.1 percent to 1,739 yen at the 3 p.m. close in
Tokyo after earlier dropping as much as 5.1 percent. The
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 1.7 percent today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  