-- 
South Korea’s Unemployment Rate Stays at Half-Year Low as Economy Expands

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-08-09T23:52:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/south-korea-s-unemployment-rate-stays-at-half-year-low-as-economy-expands.html
South Korea ’s unemployment rate
stayed at the lowest level in half a year as jobs increased in
manufacturing and the health and social welfare service sectors.  The jobless rate was at 3.3 percent in July, unchanged from
June, Statistics Korea said today in Gwacheon, south of  Seoul .
The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of eight
economists was for a rate of 3.4 percent.  Sustained job growth driven by an economic expansion has
been fueling inflation that’s exceeded the central bank’s target
since January, prompting the bank to raise the benchmark
interest rate three times this year. Still, downside risks to
the economy are rising due to the slump in global financial
markets, Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said yesterday.  “Judging from the actual economic conditions in the
domestic economy, inflation risks in fact still outweigh growth
risks at this point,” Ma Tieying, an economist with DBS Bank Ltd.
in  Singapore , said before the release. “There is no evidence so
far showing the third-quarter growth is weaker than in the
second quarter.”  The won fell 0.4 percent to 1,088 per dollar as of the 3
p.m. close in Seoul yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The benchmark Kospi stock index fell 3.6 percent,
paring a loss of as much as 9.9 percent earlier.  Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said at a ministerial meeting
in Gwacheon today that the solid recovery of the nation’s job
market is continuing.  Rate Decision  Governor Kim and his board will keep the benchmark interest
rate unchanged at 3.25 percent tomorrow, according to 10 of 15
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, with the remaining five
predicting a rate increase. The bank has boosted  interest rates 
every two or three months this year, most recently in June.  The seasonally unadjusted jobless rate was at 3.3 percent
in July, unchanged from June, today’s report showed. The number
of employed people increased by 335,000, or 1.4 percent, to
24.64 million last month from a year earlier.  Employment in manufacturing climbed 1 percent from a year
earlier, while the number of people self-employed or working in
the public-service sector rose 2.3 percent.  The number employed in construction fell 3.1 percent, while
jobs in the agricultural, fishery and forestry industries
declined 3.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  