-- 
South Korea Bans Short Selling as State-Run Funds Signal Increased Buying

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-08-10T06:54:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/south-korea-bans-short-selling-as-state-run-funds-signal-increased-buying.html
South  Korea  banned equity short
sales while the two biggest state-run funds said they may boost
investments as the government seeks to shore up a market that
had its biggest six-day drop in three years.  The Financial Services Commission said it will ban short
selling on all shares until Nov. 9 from today. The  National
Pension Service , the country’s biggest investor, said yesterday
it plans to buy more stocks this month than it originally
targeted. Korea Teachers Pension said it purchased about 70
billion won of stocks amid the sell-off and may buy more.  South Korea joins  Greece  this week in banning short selling
after the  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  slumped 17 percent in six days. The gauge
reached an intraday level yesterday that was 24 percent below
its May 2 record close. Domestic institutions should play a
bigger role to contain volatility that is often caused by sell-
offs by overseas investors, the FSC’s Chairman Kim Seok Dong
told lawmakers in parliament yesterday.  “They’re trying to diminish volatility by increasing
further restrictions on foreign investors,” said  Gavin Parry ,
managing director of Parry International Trading Ltd. in  Hong
Kong . “What the government wants is stability, but all of these
things are impediments to liquidity. Your pool has shrunk
because the amount of trading participants have diminished.”  The Kospi rose 0.3 percent to 1,806.24 at the 3 p.m. close
in  Seoul  today, after rallying as much as 4.2 percent earlier.
The U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index jumped the most since March
2009 yesterday as the  Federal Reserve  vowed to keep interest
rates near zero through mid-2013.  Foreign Sales  Overseas investors have been net sellers of Korean equities
since Aug. 2, divesting a net 1.28 trillion won ($1.2 billion)
of Kospi equities today, according to Koscom Corp., which
provides financial data from  Korea Exchange . Foreign investors
have sold a net 5 trillion won  this year .  Short sales , in which investors bet on declines in
securities by borrowing stock to sell on the expectation it can
be purchased at a lower price, reached 432.5 billion won on Aug.
5, FSC data show. The daily average value in the first half of
this year was 160.8 billion won.  The FSC’s Kim told lawmakers yesterday that cutting foreign
investors’ portion of the nation’s equity holdings is a priority
to reduce stock-market volatility. His comments came before the
announcement on the ban on short selling.  “It will slow down the slump, make the investors cool down
before selling the stock,” said Ronald Wan, a Hong Kong-based
managing director at China Merchants Securities Co., which
oversees about $1.5 billion. “All regulatory measures may
change the magnitude but won’t change the direction.”  Naked Shorts  South Korea  imposed a ban in 2008 on short sales following
similar actions taken by U.S. and U.K. regulators in the
aftermath of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse. Korea
lifted the rule from June 2009, while keeping the ban for
financial stocks. The nation already bans so-called naked short
sales, where investors don’t need to borrow the shares.  Greece’s securities regulator banned short selling on the
Athens exchange for two months from yesterday after the
benchmark ASE Index closed at its lowest since January 1997.  Stocks globally have slumped the past two weeks as
manufacturing and consumer spending data showed the  U.S.
economy , which accounted for 10.7 percent of South Korea’s
exports last year, is slowing.  Standard & Poor’s  cut its rating
on  U.S. debt  by one level to AA+ on Aug. 5, citing the failure
of the political system to rein in the  U.S. budget deficit .  Bear Market   South Korea will closely monitor global market movements
and prepare “all policy steps needed” to help stabilize
financial markets, Financial Services Commission Vice Chairman
Shin Je Yoon said at a meeting in Seoul today.  The Kospi fell 19 percent from its May 2 record to
yesterday amid mounting concerns the global economy is
weakening. A decline of 20 percent or more signals a so-called
bear market to some investors. South Korea’s industrial
production expanded at the slowest pace in nine months in June,
the nation’s statistics agency reported on July 29.  Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo told a parliament
subcommittee yesterday that risks to the nation’s economic
growth are rising in the wake of financial-market volatility.
The central bank will probably hold off raising  interest rates 
tomorrow for the second month, according to a Bloomberg News
economist survey. Ten of 15 economists expect the central bank
to leave its benchmark rate unchanged at 3.25 percent.  Bargain Hunting  The Kospi sank 3.6 percent yesterday to its lowest close
since Sept. 9. It has fallen 12 percent this year.  “We as a long-term investor thought recent market sell-
offs present good bargain-hunting opportunities over the medium-
to-long-term,” Kim Seok Joo, a spokesman at National Pension,
said by phone yesterday. The service, which had 340 trillion won
of assets in June, is overseen by the welfare ministry.  Kospi stocks traded at 8.9 times estimated profit
yesterday, the lowest level since November 2008, even as
analysts forecast its companies will boost per-share earnings by
51 percent in the next 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That’s more than twice the 22 percent growth anticipated
for the MSCI All-Country World Index, which measures developed
and emerging-market equities.  The National Pension Service said in June it will increase
the representation of domestic stocks to 19.3 percent of assets
in 2012 from 18 percent planned for this year.  Trading Halts  The Kospi’s 12 percent fall this year through yesterday
compares with the MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s 16 percent
slide. The Kospi’s price-earnings ratio is the lowest in  Asia 
after  Pakistan ’s benchmark index, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. MSCI’s global index trades for 11 times, while the
emerging-markets gauge is at 9.8 times.  South Korea’s Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan asked other
ministers in a meeting yesterday to bolster the market
monitoring system, the ministry said in a statement. The
government should try to restore market confidence, Bahk said.  Program trading on Kospi shares was stopped for five
minutes in each of the past two days after  Kospi 200 Index (KOSPI2) 
futures fell more than 5 percent for more than a minute, Korea
Exchange Inc. said. Trading of shares on the Kosdaq Index, which
has more than 1,000 stocks, was also halted after the index
tumbled in excess of 10 percent for more than a minute,
triggering automatic curbs.  Korea Teachers Pension , which is run by the Ministry of
Education, Science and Technology, has room to invest 300
billion won for the rest of the year, Chief Investment Officer
Lee Yun Kyu said by phone yesterday. It manages about 9.5
trillion won in assets.  “It was really a broad-based sell-off, so we plan to add
evenly across sectors,” Korea Teachers’ Lee said. “I think
we’re now at a bottom.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  