-- 
Soybeans Stocks in Top Exporters to Climb 21%, Oil World Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-08-09T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/soybeans-stocks-in-top-exporters-to-climb-21-oil-world-says.html
Soybean stockpiles in the U.S.,
 Argentina  and Brazil, the world’s three largest exporters of the
oilseed, will rise 21 percent as processing and shipments
decline, Oil World said.  Inventories in the countries will total 57.8 million metric
tons on Sept. 1, the second-highest level ever for that date and
up from 47.9 million tons a year earlier, the Hamburg-based
researcher said in a report today. Disposals, or exports and
processing, will fall 6.1 percent to 49.5 million tons in the
three months through August, with shipments declining 8.9
percent, according to the report.  “This will provide a more comfortable supply situation and
create a larger cushion for detrimental weather and crop damage
in the U.S. this summer,” Oil World said. “The current decline
in soybean disposals and the prospective higher-than-expected
stocks at the end of this month have triggered some of the
recent selling and price pressure.”  Soybean futures have dropped 7 percent this year in Chicago
trading as demand for supplies from domestic users and  China 
declines from last year.  The U.S., the world’s largest shipper, exported 700,000
tons in July and will ship 1 million tons in August, down from 1
million tons in July 2010 and 1.6 million tons last August, Oil
World said. Processing in the year through August will total
44.8 million tons, down 6 percent from a year earlier, according
to the report.  Argentine Inventories  Brazil’s soybean stockpiles will jump 38 percent to 25.7
million tons by the end of August as production increases 9.2
percent, Oil World said. Inventories in Argentina will rise 1.4
percent to 25.5 million tons through the end of this month, the
researcher said. Exports will fall 29 percent to 4.8 million
tons and processing will drop 12 percent.  China’s lack of interest in purchasing soybeans from the
so-called G-3 shippers will probably persist through the end of
the month, according to the report.  “The subsequent slowing-down of Chinese soybean purchases
resulted in a significant decline in the combined total net
exports of the USA, Argentina and  Brazil ,” Oil World said. “It
is therefore expected that Chinese soybean imports will remain
at a depressed level also in July and August, considering
shipping time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 