-- 
Spanish, Italian Bonds Rise for Third Day as ECB Purchases More Securities

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-08-09T16:17:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/spanish-italian-bonds-rise-on-speculation-ecb-s-purchases-will-continue.html
Spanish and Italian  government bonds 
rose for a third straight day, cutting the extra yield investors
demand to hold the 10-year securities instead of German bunds,
as the European Central Bank purchased the debt.  German bonds fell, pushing the 10-year yield up from within
three basis points of the lowest since October.  Greece  sold
812.5 million euros ($1.2 billion) of 182-day bills, while Italy
offers as much as 6.5 billion euros of 366-day securities
tomorrow.  Spain ’s 10-year yield touched the lowest since
December, while Italy’s fell to a one-month low.  “In the near term we’re likely to see a further decline in
Spanish and Italian spreads,” said Elwin de Groot, a senior
market economist at Rabobank Nederland in Utrecht. “Now that
the ECB has taken this decision, they’re likely to continue with
this for some time. The ECB will make a strong statement with
their purchases.”  The yield on 10-year Italian bonds fell 11 basis points to
5.18 percent at 5:02 p.m. in  London , after reaching 5.08
percent, the least since July 6. That narrowed the difference in
yield, or spread, over similar-maturity German debt by 22 basis
points to 281 basis points.  The yield spread between Spanish debt and bunds narrowed 18
basis points to 272 basis points, as the yield on the Spanish
securities dropped eight basis points to 5.08 percent, after
being as low as 4.98 percent, the least since Dec. 3.  ECB Purchases  The ECB bought Italian and Spanish government bonds today,
according to three people with knowledge of the transactions,
who declined to be identified because the trades are
confidential. A spokesman for the central bank declined to
comment. The ECB started buying yesterday, after  Standard &
Poor’s  lowered the U.S. rating by one level to AA+ with a
negative outlook on Aug. 5. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings have affirmed the U.S. at AAA.  Spanish and Italian 10-year yields slid yesterday by the
most since the euro’s introduction as the ECB moved to stabilize
markets and prevent the sovereign-debt crisis that forced
Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  to seek aid from spreading to the
euro area’s third- and fourth-biggest economies.  Spanish bonds have returned 4.8 percent this year, while
Italian debt handed investors a 0.5 percent loss, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. German debt gained 4.9 percent,
while U.S. Treasuries rose 6.4 percent, the indexes show.  Irish Yields Tumble  The Irish two-year yield has dropped about 13 percentage
points, to 10.76 percent today, since peaking on July 19 at
23.50 percent. It fell by 251 basis points today and reached the
least since June 8. The Portuguese note yield was at 11.81
percent today, down from as much as 20.42 percent last month.  The ECB may have spent more than 10 billion euros
yesterday, with purchases “heavily concentrated” in Italian
securities, according to Ciaran O’Hagan, head of European
interest-rate strategy at Societe Generale SA in Paris. Deutsche
Bank AG analysts estimated that the purchases reached 7 billion
euros,  Jim Reid , a strategist at the bank in London, wrote in a
research note today.  Euro-area leaders agreed on July 21 to empower the 440-
billion euro European Financial Stability Facility bailout fund
to buy bonds in the secondary market. German officials including
Michael Meister, the finance spokesman for German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s  Christian Democrats , yesterday rejected
proposals to bolster the capacity of the rescue facility.  Sustainable Yields  “The ECB is acting as a stop-gap until the EFSF is fully
up and running in terms of secondary market buying,”  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed-market debt at ING Groep NV in
Amsterdam, said in a client note. “Handing over the problem to
the EFSF is not a workable solution given the current funding
capacity. For this policy to work, the ECB will have to maintain
its security market program buying.”  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann and  European Central
Bank  Executive Board member  Juergen Stark  opposed the bond
purchases, which were revived yesterday,  Handelsblatt  newspaper
said, without saying where it obtained the information. Last
week’s decision to resume buying Irish and Portuguese debt
wasn’t unanimous, ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said at a
press conference on Aug. 4.  The program needs to push yields on Italian and Spanish 10-
year debt below 5 percent to make the nations’ borrowing costs
sustainable, according to  Steven Major , global head of fixed-
income research at HSBC Holdings Plc in London.  “It will work if the yield on Italian bonds can be moved
below 5 percent and stay there, because it means that come
September,  Italy  can issue at a sustainable rate,” Major said,
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” with
 Owen Thomas .  German 10-year yields rose 10 basis points to 2.37 percent.
They dropped to 2.23 percent on Aug. 5, the least since falling
to 2.21 percent on Oct. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net 
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  