-- 
Sprint Looks Away as Clearwire Debt Indicates Distress: Corporate Finance

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 
2011-08-09T15:53:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/sprint-looks-away-as-clearwire-debt-plunges-corporate-finance.html
Bonds of  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , the company
Standard & Poor’s says will run out of cash in 2012, are
approaching levels consistent with an impending default as
partner Sprint Nextel Corp. strikes a deal with a competitor.  The unprofitable wireless broadband provider’s bonds have
fallen 12 percent this month, the worst performer among junk-
rated telecommunications companies in the U.S., Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show. Its notes trade at an average
yield of 15.2 percent, compared with 11.8 for CCC rated debt and
20.7 percent for CC, a grade that means a default is expected.  The drop reflects concern Clearwire won’t be able to raise
the almost $1 billion it needs to pay to transition to the same
technology that most of its rivals use and to maintain its
current network. Bondholders also are concerned that the
Kirkland, Washington-based company’s relationship with Sprint,
its largest stakeholder, is in jeopardy after the carrier last
month agreed to a 15-year deal with billionaire  Philip Falcone ’s
LightSquared Inc., a Clearwire competitor.  “The bonds are taking a huge beating,” Ping Zhao, a New
York-based analyst at CreditSights Inc., said in a telephone
interview. “For Clearwire to get the funding, it needs Sprint
to be on board. People are concerned Clearwire is just being cut
out of the picture.”  Yields on Clearwire’s debt have risen 4.35 percentage
points from 10.87 percent since Sprint’s agreement to have
LightSquared provide network carriage for its mobile-phone
service was announced on July 28, compared with an average 0.9
percent rise for bonds in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch High
Yield Master II index.  Capital Needs  Clearwire needs to raise $150 million to $300 million of
capital to help pay for its current network using a technology
called WiMax, Chief Financial Officer Hope Cochran said in a
conference call with investors after the company reported
second-quarter earnings on Aug. 3. The company plans to spend
about $600 million to add so-called Long-Term Evolution
technology to its network.  Sprint told Clearwire on June 1 that it cut its voting
stake to 49.8 percent from 53.7 percent to settle investor
concern that the partner may be considered a subsidiary and that
its debt would become a liability for Sprint. The voting change
doesn’t affect Sprint’s equity stake in the company or its
relationship as a customer.  Under LightSquared’s agreement with Sprint, the Reston,
Virgina-based company will pay to build and operate a nationwide
wireless network using LTE technology, the companies said in a
statement.  Long-Term Commitment  The fall in Clearwire’s fixed-income securities reflects
declining bondholder confidence that Sprint has a long-term
commitment to the company,  Dave Novosel , an analyst with Gimme
Credit LLC, said in a telephone interview from  Chicago .  “With Sprint’s LTE agreement with LightSquared, they’re
thinking that maybe Sprint does not need Clearwire like it did
before,” Novosel said. “In the near term it needs Clearwire,
but longer term, Sprint could move away.”  The company’s second-quarter net loss expanded to $168.7
million, or $1.01 per share, from $125.9 million, or 61 cents,
the company said in an Aug. 3 statement. Revenue more than
doubled to $322.6 million, from $117 million. Earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization was negative $355
million in the second quarter, Bloomberg data show.  Clearwire was down 7 cents to $1.45 a share at 11:26 a.m.
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading, the lowest price
since its initial public offering in March 2007.  ‘Sufficient Liquidity’  “We have sufficient liquidity to fund our current WiMAX
operations for at least the next 12 months,”  Susan Johnston , a
spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-mail yesterday. “We
expect our operations to begin generating positive EBITDA in Q1
of 2012.”  Cash and near-cash items fell to $78.8 million from $254.7
million a year earlier, the company said. Clearwire has $3.9
billion of bonds outstanding, including $2.7 billion coming due
in December 2015, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Clearwire’s on a trajectory and it will run out of cash
by mid 2012,” Allyn Arden, an analyst with  Standard & Poor’s  in
New York, said in a telephone interview. “The company already
has a very elevated debt burden, they are burning through cash,
and they don’t generate positive Ebitda or positive free cash
flows.”  Negative Outlooks  S&P cut the outlook on Clearwire’s CCC+ grade to
“negative” after the company reported second-quarter results.
Moody’s Investors Service rates the company an equivalent Caa1,
also with a “negative” outlook, it said in April. Bonds at the
CCC level are considered to have very high credit risk, with
debt service dependent on favorable economic conditions.  Clearwire underwent a management shake-up in March, naming
Chairman John Stanton, 55, interim CEO after Bill Morrow
resigned for personal reasons. Stanton replaced Craig McCaw as
chairman in January when the pioneer of the mobile-phone
industry retired.  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint, reached an agreement
with Clearwire in April to pay it at least $1 billion for the
use of its so-called fourth-generation network over the next two
years. Clearwire will get $300 million this year, $550 million
in 2012, as well as pre-payments of $175 million over at least
the next two years, in a deal that is good through November
2013, according to a joint statement.  Scott Sloat , a spokesman for Sprint, declined to comment.  Sprint Bonds  Sprint’s bonds have fallen 4.9 percent this month, compared
with a 3.47 percent decline on the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
high-yield index. They gained 0.51 percent in July, the index
data show.  The company’s $2 billion of 8.75 percent notes due March
2032 climbed 2.75 cents to 92.25 cents on the dollar at 11:19
a.m. for a yield of 9.62 percent, according to Trace, the bond
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulation
Authority. That’s down from 110.25 cents on July 27, the data
show.  Clearwire’s prospects may suffer without support from
Sprint because it would then have to rely on smaller carriers
such as MetroPCS Communications Inc. and United States Cellular
Corp., which wouldn’t bring in as much revenue, Gimme Credit’s
Novosel said.  “Defaulting is not imminent in that it’s not going to be
in the next quarter or so,” Novosel said. “Certainly it’s a
possibility and it’s a greater probability now than it was three
months ago.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 