-- 
State Deficits Forecast to Drop Reflecting Spending Cuts as Revenue Climbs

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-08-09T20:09:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/state-deficits-are-forecast-to-shrink-on-spending-cuts-revenue-increases.html
Budget deficits in U.S. states will
drop to about $12 billion in fiscal 2014 from $174 billion in
2010 as tax receipts rise and after spending cuts, according to
the  National Conference of State Legislatures .  The outlook is based on a survey of budget officials in all
50 states last month, and may be affected by changes in asset
values following  Standard & Poor’s  cut in the U.S. credit rating
on Aug. 5, Corina Eckl, director of state services for the
Washington-based group, said today.  “We’ve passed the hump of 2010 and the overall tone here
is more optimistic,” said Jim Geringer, a former Wyoming
governor, at a meeting of the organization in  San Antonio .
“With all of the problems at the federal level, there’s even
greater expectations that states will need to step up.”  Tax collections will climb less than 5 percent in 26 states
and fall in six during fiscal 2012, while 15 forecast gains of 5
percent to 9.9 percent, according to the survey. The results
provide more evidence that local and regional economies are
stabilizing following the longest recession since World War II.
States have grappled with gaps totaling an estimated $527
billion from 2008 to 2013.  The group defines a deficit as the difference between
general-fund revenue and spending.  State reserves are projected at 5.1 percent of general-fund
revenue for this fiscal year, up from 4.5 percent in 2011, Eckl
said. Five states, led by energy producers Alaska and  Texas ,
hold three-quarters of those reserves, she said. The other three
are New York, Massachusetts and Wyoming.  Ohio Governor  John Kasich , a first-term Republican, said
Aug. 5 he’d favor state spending cuts if revenue slows amid
fallout from the “chaos” in the nation’s capital surrounding
the debt deal, announced last week. The seventh most-populous
state’s budget enacted in June closed an $8 billion gap.  The governors of Maine and  Washington  have also begun
mapping out further spending cuts, according to local newspaper
reports. California’s July receipts fell 10 percent short of
forecast, Controller John Chiang said today in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in  New York  at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  