-- 
Super Punches, Knockouts Jazz So-So ‘Captain America’ Video Game: Review

-- B y   J a c o b   H e n k o f f
-- 
2011-08-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/super-punches-knockouts-jazz-so-so-captain-america-video-game-review.html
Pegged to the release of the
blockbuster film, “Captain America: Super Soldier” launches
you right into combat with the baddies. They’re easily defeated.  The attack commands are basic: X to dodge, square to
attack, circle to counter, triangle to rustle or confuse (I
never used this button). R1 and L1 enhance these attacks, while
L2 aims and R2 launches the shield.  “Captain America” uses a basic power-bar structure, with
consistent counterattacks and well-placed knockouts building up
four power units, enabling more effective attacks -- super
punches, one-punch kills to multiple enemies at once, intricate
shield targeting.  Over time, you develop a few tricks through upgrades --
disarming an enemy and using his weapon, hitting multiple
targets with your shield, some basic parkour skills, more
powerful attacks.  Still, “Captain America: Super Soldier” suffers from
repetition. Every door or explosive includes mildly involving
puzzles (that barely grow in difficulty) requiring mildly
dexterous use of the joysticks.  The game pales before any “Assassins Creed” or “God of
War” installments. But it does have its good points for a run-
of-the-mill superhero movie videogame. There were definitely a
few boss battles that I had to try once or twice before I got
the hang of it.  There are some interesting unlockables -- diary entries
from the top man, photo galleries, film reels, and two alternate
costumes.  Not for the serious gamer, but it does its job as a
suitable companion to the film, even while ignoring the plot
entirely.  “Captain America: Super Soldier,” by Sega of America, is in
stores now. Prices range from $29.99 for the hand-held edition
to $49.99 for Playstation and Xbox versions. Rating: **  (Jacob Henkoff is an intern at Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jacob Henkoff at 
 jhenkoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 