-- 
Swiss Franc Posts Biggest Intraday Rally Since 1971 Before Paring on Fed

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-08-09T20:37:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/switzerland-s-franc-strengthens-to-euro-and-dollar-records-on-safety-bid.html
The Swiss franc rose the most since
at least 1971 versus the dollar on demand for a refuge before
paring its advance as U.S. stocks rallied following the  Federal
Reserve ’s policy decision.  The franc remained higher against all of its major
counterparts even as the government said yesterday the currency
is “massively overvalued,” echoing a statement last week by
the Swiss National Bank. The Fed pledged for the first time to
keep its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low at least
through mid-2013.  “The Swiss franc is a falling knife, and no one wants to
catch it,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at
 Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “We suspect the SNB will take
further policy steps. It will take a policy action to stop and
reverse the uptrend in the Swiss.”  The Swiss currency appreciated 4.8 percent to 72.05
centimes versus the dollar at 3:53 p.m. in  New York , from 75.50
yesterday, after gaining as much as 6.5 percent to a record high
70.71 in the biggest intraday advance since the beginning of
Bloomberg records in January 1971. The franc climbed 3.6 percent
to 1.03257 versus the euro after touching 1.00749, the strongest
since the shared European currency began trading in 1999.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied 4.7 percent
following the Fed statement after initially dropping as much as
1.6 percent.  The Swiss cabinet said yesterday that measures within the
framework of the central bank’s money market policy are
required. The government made its comments in an e-mailed
statement after an extraordinary session in the capital, Bern,
with  Swiss National Bank  President Philipp Hildebrand.  Interest-Rate Cut  The central bank unexpectedly lowered borrowing costs to
zero on Aug. 3 and said the outlook for the economy has
“deteriorated substantially” as the surging franc undermines
exports, which account for more than half of output.  The franc has jumped 24 percent year-to-date against a
basket of nine developed-market peers, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, as investors sought a
haven from turmoil in the euro-region’s debt market. The
 European Central Bank  purchased Italian and Spanish debt today
in an attempt to curb the nation’s surging borrowing costs and
prevent the debt crisis from spreading further.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  