-- 
Syria Is Pressed to End Crackdown as Arab States Join Criticism of Assad

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-08-09T19:03:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/syria-is-pressed-to-end-crackdown-as-arab-states-join-criticism-of-assad.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
faced renewed pressure to end his government’s deadly five-month
crackdown on protesters after three Arab countries withdrew
their ambassadors from Damascus and  Turkey  said its neighbor is
entering a “critical” period.  Saudi Arabia,  Kuwait  and  Bahrain  recalled their envoys
yesterday, a day after Syrian troops backed by tanks killed more
than 100 people in assaults on towns across the country.
Activists estimate the death toll at more than 2,400 since
protests began in mid-March, inspired by the revolts that ousted
the leaders of Tunisia and Egypt. The  Arab League  and the Gulf
Cooperation Council condemned Assad’s policies, urging him to
meet demands for political change.  Arab criticism of Syria “could have an impact on the Assad
regime; it makes it increasingly isolated,”  Chris Phillips , a
London-based analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit, said in
a telephone interview. “That will increase the leverage that
Saudi and Turkey have over  Syria  and might pressure it into
making concessions.”  At least 30 anti-government protesters were killed today as
the army used tanks, machine guns and armored vehicles to renew
its attack on the northern province of Idlib, close to the
border with Turkey, and on a town near the central city of Hama,
Ammar Qurabi of the National Organization for Human Rights in
Syria said in a telephone interview. Many were killed by sniper
fire, he said.  ‘Stop the Bloodshed’  Qurabi said children age 11 and age 13 were killed as well
as a 17-year-old boy.  At least 24 demonstrators were killed yesterday in Deir al-
Zour and Homs in central Syria and in the southern province of
Daraa, where the unrest began, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab
Organization for Human Rights, said by telephone from Damascus.  “Our first priority is to stop the bloodshed right away,”
Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said today in Ankara
after his delegation met with Syrian counterparts for 6 1/2
hours. “Our dialogue with all Syrian groups will continue, the
important thing is for the process to take a peaceful turn and
for Syrians to determine their own future.”  Turkey’s foreign minister said he met one-on-one with Assad
for 3 1/2 hours, when they discussed “concrete” issues in a
“clear” manner. “Developments in the coming days will be
important and critical in terms of meeting expectations for both
Turkey and the Syrian people,” Davutoglu said.  ‘Immediate Cessation’  Syria is pursuing “comprehensive reform” and is open to
help from nations that are its friends, Assad said after meeting
with Davutoglu, the Syrian state-run  news agency  Sana reported.
He said “armed terrorist groups” killed civilians and members
of security forces in some cities and that Syria won’t relent in
pursuing them.  The GCC, which called Aug. 6 for “an immediate cessation
to all acts of violence,” will meet soon to discuss Syria,
Kuwaiti Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed Al-Sabah said. The
group comprises the six Sunni Muslim-ruled monarchies of
Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, the  United Arab Emirates  and Saudi
Arabia, which is a rival for regional power with Shiite Muslim-
led  Iran , Syria’s main ally.  Assad and many of his top officials are from the Alawite
branch of Islam, an offshoot of Shiism, while most of Syria’s
population is Sunni.  Saudi Arabia  “demands an end to the killing machine and
bloodshed, and asks for reason to prevail before it is too
late,”  King Abdullah  said in a statement as he recalled his
ambassador.  Ramadan Gatherings  Many countries “will interpret King Abdullah’s remarks as
permission for stronger action against Syria,” said Dawood al-
Shirian, a political analyst and editor-in-chief of
Alarabiya.net.  Activists say demonstrations on the past three Fridays have
drawn at least 1 million people, many now invigorated by the
Muslim holy month of Ramadan. In Syria, as in other mostly
Islamic countries, family and community groups gather to break
the daily Ramadan fast after sunset, and people attend prayers
at mosques more often than at other times.  Ahmed el-Tayeb, the grand imam of Al-Azhar mosque in Cairo,
Sunni Islam’s highest seat of learning, said in a statement that
the situation “has gone too far,” and called for an end to
“this Arab and Islamic tragedy,” according to  Egypt ’s state-
run Middle East News Agency.  “The widespread oppression, violence, arrests and
intimidation that the Syrian people are subjected to represent a
human tragedy that cannot be accepted,” MENA cited the imam as
saying yesterday. “Blood only fuels revolutions.”  ‘Grave Concern’  Assad, who came to power in 2000, has blamed the protests
on foreign-inspired plots. He appointed a new defense minister,
Dawoud Rajhah, Al Arabiya television reported yesterday, without
saying how it obtained the information. More than 500 members of
the security forces have been killed, according to the
government.  The  United Nations Security Council  issued a statement Aug.
3, expressing “grave concern” at the deaths and human-rights
abuses in Syria. Stronger action, such as a resolution
condemning the crackdown, has been backed by the U.S. and its
European allies, and blocked by countries including  Russia .  Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon should urge the  Security
Council  to increase pressure in Syria,  Human Rights Watch  said
today in a statement e-mailed by the UN. The body should
consider “targeted” sanctions, an arms embargo and an inquiry
commission, the New York-based organization said.  ‘Intensifying’ Crackdown  Syria “has responded to the international community’s
demand to halt the violence by intensifying its bloody
crackdown,” said Sarah Leah Whitson, Middle East director at
Human Rights Watch.  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov called for
“immediate” political and economic reforms in Syria today,
urging it to engage in a “wide and constructive dialogue” to
overcome the crisis without any outside intervention, he told
Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Al-Muallem during a phone
conversation today, according to a statement published on the
ministry’s website.  “The pressure on Assad is growing,” U.S. State Department
spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said today. “The concern is he’s
not listening,” she told reporters in  Washington .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  