-- 
U.K. Watchdog Says No Sign Police Were Shot at Before London Man Killed

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-09T18:08:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/u-k-watchdog-says-no-sign-police-were-shot-at-before-london-man-killed.html
Britain’s independent police
regulator said there’s no sign the man whose death sparked three
nights of riots in  London  had fired a gun at police officers who
killed him with a bullet to the chest.  Forensic scientists found “no evidence” an illegal weapon
discovered at the scene of Mark Duggan’s shooting on Aug. 4 in
the north London neighborhood of Tottenham was discharged, the
Independent Police Complaints Commission said today in a
statement. A bullet found lodged in a police radio following the
incident was police-issue, the regulator said.  “At this stage there is no evidence that the handgun found
at the scene was fired during the incident,” the IPCC said in
the statement. Forensic scientists said it “may not be possible
to say for certain whether the handgun was fired.”  Duggan’s death sparked the worst rioting in Britain since
the 1980s, with at least 563 people arrested since a peaceful
protest over the shooting on Aug. 6 descended into violence.
Prime Minister  David Cameron  recalled Parliament from its summer
break and more than double the number of police will be deployed
in London as authorities prepared for a fourth night of unrest,
which has now spread to other U.K. cities.  The  Metropolitan Police  in London, which had been
criticized for failing notify Duggan’s parents about his death,
said in a statement, “we appreciate that it is frustrating for
people to have to wait for the outcome of the investigation, but
it is important that the investigation is full and thorough.”  The probe is still under way and the IPCC is reviewing
closed-circuit television images from the area, including
footage from buses. The Met police will do “everything possible
to assist,” the investigation, according to the statement.  The incident began when police, seeking to make an arrest,
pulled over the Toyota minicab in which Duggan was a passenger,
the IPCC said. Two shots were fired by an officer during the
incident, according to the statement. The minicab driver is
being interviewed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  