-- 
U.S. 10-Year TIPS Yields Go Negative for First Time After Fed Rate Promise

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-08-09T20:54:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/u-s-10-year-tips-yields-go-negative-for-first-time-after-fed-rate-promise.html
The fixed interest payment on
Treasury 10-year Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities fell
into negative territory for the first time on speculation the
Federal Reserve officials promise to keep benchmark  interest
rates  at record lows through mid-2013 will spark inflation.  The yield on The yield on 10-year TPS maturing in July 2021
maturing in July 2021 touched negative 0.015 percent, according
to Barclays Plc pricing, after the Fed said economic growth is
“considerably slower” and discussed a range of policy tools to
bolster the economy today in  Washington .  “A federal funds rate kept at zero for two years or more
and while inflation expectations are positive is what drove real
yields into negative territory,” said Michael Pond, co-head of
interest-rate strategy in New York at Barclays, one of 20
primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “This is a reflection
that the real fed funds rate will basically average zero over
the next 10 years.”  Holders of TIPS receive an adjustment to the principal
value of their securities equal to the change in the  consumer
price index , in addition to a fixed rate of interest that’s
smaller than the interest paid to a holder of conventional debt.
The difference is known as the breakeven rate.  Inflation in 2011 will be 3.05 percent, according to the
median estimate of 59 forecasters in a Bloomberg News survey, up
from 1.63 percent in 2010.  Yields on 10-year notes have declined as much as 78 basis
points since July 26 as economic indicators signal more slowing
of the  U.S. economy  and President Barack Obama and Republicans
in Congress engaged in a protracted struggle to address federal
budget deficits and boost the debt limit, following the  Standard
& Poor’s  long-term ratings cut Aug. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  