-- 
Slide in U.S. Home Values Slowed in Second Quarter, Zillow Says

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-08-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/u-s-home-values-have-smallest-drop-in-more-than-four-years-zillow-says.html
Home values in the U.S. had their
smallest decline in more than four years in the second quarter,
as the share of borrowers with negative equity shrunk, Zillow
Inc. said today.  In the second quarter, 26.8 percent of single-family
homeowners with mortgages owed more than their houses were
worth, compared with 28.4 percent in the previous three months,
the Seattle-based company said. Values fell 0.4 percent from the
first quarter, the smallest drop since the first three months of
2007, when values also slipped 0.4 percent, according to Zillow,
which runs a website with property-value estimates and real
estate listings.  While the  Zillow Home Value Index  fell 6.2 percent from
year earlier, the rate of depreciation is slowing, said  Stan
Humphries , Zillow’s chief economist. A temporary decline in bank
repossessions, caused by court delays and paperwork errors, may
be preventing a more significant drag on  house prices , he said.  “It’s a positive that we’re moving in the right
direction,” Humphries said. “But I would caution us about
being euphoric about these numbers.”  Foreclosure filings dropped in 84 percent of the largest
U.S. cities in the first half of the year as  attorneys general 
in all 50 states investigate allegations of shoddy practices by
lenders and servicers,  Irvine , California-based RealtyTrac Inc.
said July 28.  ‘Near-Term’ Gains  “We do have a slower volume of foreclosures transitioning
into the marketplace now,” Humphries said. “And that is
helping the near-term performance of the market -- and at the
expense of the longer-term performance.”  Values increased from the first quarter in almost two-
thirds of the 154 metropolitan areas surveyed by Zillow, and 25
cities including  Washington , D.C., and Pittsburgh had two
consecutive quarters of increases.  Pittsburgh was the only market of the 25 largest that
Zillow follows to show an increase in values from a year
earlier, a 2.7 percent gain.  Among the top 25 markets, the Pennsylvania city had the
smallest share of homeowners with mortgages who were
“underwater” in the second quarter, 6.7 percent. Phoenix had
the most borrowers with negative equity among the 25 cities,
about 68 percent.  About 83 percent of borrowers were underwater in the Las
Vegas area, more than any other region covered by Zillow.  Sales of previously owned homes declined 0.8 percent in
June to a 4.77 million pace, the lowest in seven months, the
National Association of Realtors said July 20. The S&P/Case-
Shiller index of property values in 20 cities fell 4.5 percent
in May from a year earlier, the biggest 12-month drop since
November 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  