-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Gold Jumps to Record After Downgrade

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-08-09T11:49:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-gold-jumps-to-record-after-downgrade.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Gold Advances to Record as Equity Rout Stokes Investor Demand  Gold advanced to records in London and New York as the
global rout in equities and commodities deepened on concern the
economic slowdown will worsen after Standard & Poor’s cut the
U.S. credit rating.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Goldman’s O’Neill Says It’s Premature for Fed to Weigh More QE  Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill  said
it’s “premature” for the Federal Reserve to consider expanding
stimulus as inflation picks up.  NMDC Raises Iron Ore Output Target by 10% on Bellary Mines (1)  NMDC Ltd., India’s largest iron ore producer, raised its
production target by 10 percent for this financial year after
planning to increase output at its mines in Karnataka’s Bellary
area.  Oil Slump Strains Gulf Budgets Amid Spending Spree, Analysts Say  Persian Gulf oil producers may need to reconsider spending
plans to avoid depleting cash reserves as  oil prices  fall below
estimated breakeven levels for their budgets, analysts said.  NMDC Raises FY12 Iron Ore Production, Sales Target, Som Says  NMDC Ltd. raised its iron ore production target to 32
million metric tons from 29 million tons for the year ending
March 31, Chairman Rana Som said in an interview in New Delhi
today.  BP Delaying Wells Worsens Slump in Most Profitable Fields (1)  BP Plc’s drilling delay in the  Gulf of Mexico  means
production will keep declining at its most profitable fields as
the company spends $2.4 million a day to keep rigs in the region
idle.  Aquila CEO Says ‘Dozens’ Are Studying Coal Acquisition (1)  Aquila Resources Ltd., seeking to raise about A$1 billion
($1 billion) selling assets, said “dozens” of potential buyers
are studying the purchase of its Washpool coal project in
 Australia ’s Queensland state.  Billionaire Ross Buys Assets as Fear Drives Market Declineses  Billionaire investor  Wilbur Ross  said he is buying assets
as the global market declines are being driven by fear rather
than economic reality.  Texas Dust-Bowl Redux Spurs Record U.S. Cotton Loss, Farm Claims  The worst Texas drought in more than a century has left
cotton-crop conditions that rival the Dust Bowl of the early
1930s, forcing farmers to abandon more fields than ever before.  Hay Sent to  China  Cheaper Roiling U.S. Dairies: Freight Markets  U.S. hay, the country’s third-largest crop by value, is now
cheaper to ship to China than to farmers in central  California ,
compounding shortages that mean record prices for the dairy
industry.  Oil Supply Rises in Survey on Reserves, Imports: Energy Markets  U.S. crude oil supplies rose for a third week, the longest
stretch of gains in three months, as the government released
barrels from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve and imports
increased, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper May Advance From Eight-Month Low on Fed Speculation  Copper may rise in  London  for the first day in five, after
reaching an eight-month low, on speculation the Federal Reserve
will take steps to support plunging financial markets.  Copper Output in China Advances to Record as Aluminum Drops (2)  Copper production in China climbed to a record in July as
rising prices prompted smelters to increase processing rates.
Aluminum output fell from an all-time high.  Norilsk Nickel Heads for Lowest in Eight Months as Copper Drops  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, Russia’s biggest mining company,
slid to an eight-month low in Moscow  trading as copper and
nickel prices declined.  Copper Stockpile Orders Drop for 13th Session to Four-Month Low  Orders to remove copper from stockpiles monitored by the
London Metal Exchange dropped for a 13th session to a four-month
low. Orders for aluminum, lead and zinc also declined.  MINING:  Orissa Plans to Limit Iron Ore Sold to Other States in  India   India’s Orissa state, the nation’s largest iron ore
producer, plans to restrict sales of the raw material to other
provinces, aiming to increase supplies for local steelmakers and
curb illegal mining.  Aquila CEO Says ‘Dozens’ Are Studying Coal Acquisition (1)  Aquila Resources Ltd., seeking to raise about A$1 billion
($1 billion) selling assets, said “dozens” of potential buyers
are studying the purchase of its Washpool coal project in
Australia’s Queensland state.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold ETF Assets in India Climb to a Record as Prices Surge (1)  Assets in gold-backed funds in India, the biggest bullion
consumer, tripled to a record in July as the precious metal
rallied to an all-time high.  AGRICULTURE:  Corn Drops to One-Week Low as Slowing Recovery May Curb Demand  Corn fell to a one-week low in  Chicago  on concern the loss
of the U.S.’s AAA credit rating will sap a weakening recovery
and erode demand. Soybeans reached the lowest price in almost
five months.  Palm Oil Drops to 9-Month Low as Slowdown May Reduce Demand  Palm oil slumped to the lowest in more than nine months as
the global rout in equities and crude oil deepened on concern
the loss of the U.S.’s AAA rating will exacerbate a slowing
global economy.  India Ministers’ Panel May Allow Fresh Sugar Exports (1)  India, the world’s biggest sugar producer after  Brazil , may
“soon” consider a demand from mills for additional exports
amid forecasts for an increase in output for a third year, Farm
Minister Sharad Pawar said.  Cocoa in London Climbs as Next Year’s Deficit Looms; Sugar Drops  Cocoa climbed in London and  New York  on speculation about a
shortage in the season starting in October. Sugar dropped.  Russia’s Grains Crop May Reach 92 Million Tons, Ikar Says  Russia’s grains crop will be between 90 million and 92
million metric tons this marketing year and exports may exceed
20 million tons, the Institute for Agricultural Market Studies
said.  Rubber Tumbles Most in Six Weeks on Concern Demand May Decline  Rubber slumped the most in six weeks as concerns deepened
that a global economic slowdown may worsen after Standard &
Poor’s cut the U.S. long-term credit rating. Futures plunged by
the daily limit in  Shanghai .  SHIPPING:  Oil-Tanker Surplus Jumps in  Middle East  as Vessel Demand Slows  A glut of oil tankers competing for Middle East crude
expanded as demand for the vessels slowed.  China Forecasts Heavy Rain in Northeast After Muifa Downgraded  Muifa, downgraded this morning to a tropical depression, is
forecast to cause heavy and torrential rainfall in the nation’s
northeastern provinces of Heilongjiang and Jilin, according to
the China Meteorological Administration.  Trade Finance Is ‘Very Liquid,’ Shows No Recession, Lazard Says  Trade finance remains in plentiful supply for companies
seeking to ship cargoes by sea and is not indicating a
recession, Lazard Capital Markets LLC said.  ECONOMIES:  China 6.5% Inflation Limits Policy Response to Global Crisis (1)  China’s inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in three
years in July, limiting the scope for  monetary easing to
support growth as plunging stock markets  signal the global
recovery is weakening.  Asia Stocks Drop as Yen, Treasuries Climb on Growth Concerns  Asian stocks sank, extending a two- week rout that has
erased $7.8 trillion in global equity values and commodities
fell, with oil tumbling below $80 a barrel, on concern the loss
of the U.S.’s AAA rating will exacerbate a slowing global
recovery. Treasuries, the yen and gold climbed.  Aussie Falls Below Parity First Time Since March on Global Rout  Australia’s dollar dropped below parity with the greenback
for the first time in five months as concern over a slowdown in
the  U.S. economy  and the euro- region’s debt crisis sapped
demand for higher-yielding assets.  Yuan Forwards Slide on Global Growth Concern; Swaps Fluctuate  Yuan forwards weakened the most since November on
speculation China will rein in appreciation to support exports
as a global recovery falters. Swaps fluctuated after data showed
inflation reached a three-year high in July.  Fed May Strengthen Stimulus Pledge on Renewed Recession Concern  Federal Reserve  officials may strengthen their commitment
to record monetary stimulus as soon as today after a faltering
economic recovery and a U.S. credit- rating cut provoked a rout
in global stocks.  Rogoff Says Fed Will Embark on QE3, Act ‘Decisively’ on Economy  Federal Reserve policy makers are likely to embark on a
third round of large-scale asset purchases, moving “more
decisively” to secure the U.S. recovery, said Harvard
University economist Kenneth Rogoff.  ECB Half-Hearted Bond-Buying Program May Backfire: Euro Credit  The  European Central Bank  will need to commit more to its
Italian and Spanish bond purchases than it did trying to cap the
yields of  Greece , Ireland and Portugal.  OTHER MARKETS:  Yen, Franc Gain as Havens on U.S. Slowdown, Europe Debt Concern  The yen and Swiss franc rose as concern over a U.S.
economic slowdown, tumbling stock markets and the euro region’s
debt crisis spurred demand for the currencies as a refuge.  Sinking Real Means Emerging Currency Swings Up From 10-Year Low  Emerging-market currencies that three weeks ago showed the
least volatility in a decade are dropping as traders bet slower
expansions and an end to interest rate increases may weaken
exchange rates from Sao Paulo to Moscow.  European Stocks Slide for Eighth Day in Longest Rout Since 2003  European stocks retreated for an eighth day, the longest
losing streak since 2003, amid concern the global economy is
slowing. Asian shares sank and U.S. index futures fluctuated
between gains and losses.  U.S. Stock Futures Climb After S&P 500’s Biggest Loss Since 2008  U.S. stock futures advanced, indicating the  Standard &
Poor’s  500 Index rebound from its biggest loss since 2008, as
investors awaited the outcome of a Federal Reserve meeting.  Crude Falls to 10-Month Low in New York; Brent Dips Below $100  Oil fell to the lowest price in more than 10 months in New
York and dipped below $100 a barrel in London as the U.S.
credit-rating cut and rising stockpiles stoked concern a slowing
economy will reduce demand for fuel.  Cameron Recalls Parliament as 200 Held in Third Night of Riots  David Cameron recalled Parliament from its summer vacation
after police made more than 200 arrests in a third night of
rioting in London and unrest spread to other British cities.  Syria Pressed to End Crackdown as Arab States Join Criticism (2)  Syrian President Bashar al-Assad faced renewed pressure to
end his government’s deadly five-month crackdown against
protesters after three Arab countries withdrew their ambassadors
from Damascus and Turkey said it was preparing to send a
“decisive” message to its neighbor.  OPEC Oil Output Rises in July as  Saudi Arabia  Pumps More Crude  OPEC crude oil production rose last month as Saudi Arabia,
the group’s biggest exporter, and Angola pumped more, offsetting
declines by Iran, Iraq and Nigeria.  OPEC Cuts Oil Demand Forecasts for 2011, 2012 as Economy Falters  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries cut its
oil demand forecasts for 2011 and next year as the global
economic recovery loses momentum.  SPORTS:  Arsenal Opens Door for Nasri’s City Move, Guardian Says: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspaper, with clickable links to the websites.  England-Netherlands Soccer Match Postponed by Riots in London  England’s soccer exhibition match against the Netherlands
tomorrow night in London was postponed following three days of
rioting in the U.K. capital.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  