-- 
UDR Plans to Own as Much as $1.8 Billion of Manhattan Apartments, CEO Says

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-08-09T18:55:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/udr-plans-to-own-as-much-as-1-8-billion-of-manhattan-apartments-ceo-says.html
UDR Inc. (UDR) , the third-largest publicly
traded U.S. apartment owner, plans to have as much as $1.8
billion of  Manhattan  apartment buildings in its portfolio, Chief
Executive Officer Tom Toomey said today.  The company’s investment in the borough increased to $1.2
billion with the planned acquisition of the 507-unit  Dwell95 
tower from the Moinian Group for $325 million. The purchase,
announced yesterday, will be the company’s fourth in Manhattan.  UDR wants a “long-term hold” on $1.5 billion to $1.8
billion of apartments in Manhattan, Toomey said in a telephone
interview. The Highlands Ranch, Colorado-based real estate
investment trust began courting owners of large  New York 
apartment portfolios, many of them families, about two years
ago, he said.  “They’re very quiet about selling,” Toomey said. “We
don’t come in and say we’re here to buy. We say we’d like to
talk to you about your portfolio, and if you ever become
interested in selling something, please give us a call. The
phone has rung a little bit more lately.”  UDR made its first Manhattan purchase earlier this year,
when it paid $260.8 million for 10 Hanover Square in the
Financial District, about a block from Dwell95. Last month, the
company said it will pay a combined $581 million for two
Manhattan rental communities: the 706-unit Rivergate complex in
Murray Hill and a 210-unit community called 21 Chelsea.  Toomey said his company probably won’t buy any additional
properties this year.  “It’s a slow, patient process, and we’ve communicated that
to our shareholders,” he said. “These things take time.”  UDR is the largest U.S. apartment REIT by stock-market
value after  Equity Residential (EQR)  and  AvalonBay Communities Inc. (AVB)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  