-- 
Lundin Advances After Report of Joint Bid From BHP, Nyrstar

-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 
2011-08-09T20:56:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/lundin-rises-most-in-5-months-on-bhp-nyrstar-joint-bid-report.html
Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN) , the Canadian
copper producer that’s received three takeover offers in three
years, jumped 15 percent in Toronto after a newspaper reported
that  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Nyrstar NV may make a joint bid.  Lundin rose 64 cents to C$5:05 as of 4:16 p.m. on the
Toronto Stock Exchange, giving the company a market value of
C$2.94 billion ($3 billion). The gain was the biggest since Feb.
28. The shares fell 17 percent yesterday. Lundin traded as high
as 34.58 kronor in Stockholm earlier today.  “The reason is obvious; it’s the bid speculation in the
market from  BHP Billiton  and Nyrstar,” said Christian Kopfer,
an analyst based in Stockholm at Nordea Bank AB. Lundin may
consider a sale if it gets a bid of about 54 kronor a share,
Kopfer said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is advising BHP and  Nyrstar (NYR)  and Scotia
Bank is advising Lundin, the  Daily Telegraph   reported  yesterday,
without citing anybody. Toronto-based Lundin has European mines
and owns about a quarter of the Tenke Fungurume copper and
cobalt mine in the Democratic Republic of Congo.  Kelly Quirke, a Melbourne-based spokeswoman for BHP
Billiton, declined to comment. Nyrstar doesn’t comment on
speculation, said Kate Dinon, a spokeswoman. Sophia Shane, a
spokeswoman for Lundin, declined to comment.  Poison Pill  In January, Lundin agreed to be acquired by Canada’s  Inmet
Mining Corp. (IMN)  for C$4.1 billion. After  Australia ’s Equinox
Minerals Ltd. made a hostile C$4.63 billion bid in March, Lundin
scrapped the accord with Inmet and adopted a so-called poison
pill defense, allowing it to consider “strategic alternatives”
to the bid from Equinox.  Lundin said in May it was no longer up for sale because the
offers it got were too low. Equinox dropped its bid after being
acquired by Barrick Gold Corp.  In 2009, Toronto-based HudBay Minerals Inc. abandoned a
C$672.4 million agreement to acquire Lundin after HudBay
investors said the proposed deal undervalued their company’s
financial position compared with Lundin’s.  Zebra Holdings & Investments and Lorito Holdings Srl are
Lundin’s largest shareholders, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Both are owned by a Lundin family trust, according to
the website of Lundin Petroleum AB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  