-- 
Muni-Bond Issuers Should Face Disclosure Penalties, Regulator Advises SEC

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-08-09T17:11:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/muni-bond-issuers-should-face-disclosure-penalties-regulator-advises-sec.html
U.S. states and cities should face
sanctions for failing to provide updated financial information
after they sell bonds, the municipal market’s regulator said,
challenging the lax disclosure that has unnerved investors.  The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, which writes
regulations for the tax-exempt debt industry, made the comments
in a letter to Securities and Exchange Commissioner Elisse Walter, who is leading an agency review into how to improve the
municipal  bond market .  Public borrowers aren’t penalized if they don’t provide
annual financial reports and other disclosures on time after
issuing debt. The failure by some borrowers to make timely
disclosures has long rankled municipal-bond investors.  “There seem to be no significant regulatory repercussions
for non-compliance,” the board wrote in the Aug. 8  letter ,
which was released today. The board said the SEC should take
steps “necessary to impose consequences for non-compliance with
continuing disclosure undertakings.”  The SEC doesn’t directly regulate disclosures made by
municipalities after bonds are sold, as it does with
corporations that sell securities to the public. Instead, the
agency requires underwriters that sell the securities to be
assured by the municipalities that they will provide to
investors annual financial statements and other information that
could affect the value of the bonds.  Market Enforcement  The SEC has stepped up its enforcement of standards for
municipal securities by establishing a unit to police fraud and
last year settled a case against  New Jersey  for masking the
state of its pension plans as it raised money from investors.  While the agency has the authority to crack down on
fraudulent disclosures, its direct power over public officials
remains limited.  The Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul enacted a year ago
provided for a two-year study of municipal-finance disclosure,
including whether to scrap the exemption that prevents the SEC
from bringing corporate-style information rules to the market.
Previous moves to change that law have been resisted by local
officials.  The MSRB suggested ways the SEC could penalize
municipalities including obliging them to disclose their history
of failing to meet the requirements in initial bond offering
documents, or craft ways that would allow investors to sue
borrowers that breach them.  Any Solution  “Any solution proffered should balance the legitimate
needs and real world concerns of issuers and obligated persons
with the needs of the investors that require financial
information so they can make informed investment decisions,”
the MSRB wrote.  Walter has been holding hearings on the $2.9 trillion
municipal bond market with the intention of recommending
improvements. The SEC also is updating its 1994 guidance
covering the disclosure obligations for the municipal industry,
a review the MSRB was seeking to influence with its
recommendations.  The SEC should require the disclosure of more information
about the risks posed by some bonds, including those associated
with bank credit agreements that guarantee the securities, the
MSRB said. The board also said the commission should scrap an
exemption that allows floating-rate securities known as
variable-rate demand obligations to be sold without official
offering statements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  