-- 
United Nations Meets to Discuss Measures for Horn of Africa Farm Recovery

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-08-09T12:16:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/united-nations-meets-to-discuss-measures-for-horn-of-africa-farm-recovery.html
The  United Nations ’  Food and
Agriculture Organization  will host a meeting in  Rome  on Aug. 18
to discuss measures to help farmers and livestock herders in the
Horn of Africa region recover from drought.  Agriculture ministers from the FAO’s 191 member countries
have been invited to the meeting, which aims to identify
projects that can address both immediate needs as well as the
underlying causes of the crisis, the UN agency said in a
 statement  on its website today.  The failure of two consecutive rainy seasons in the Horn of
Africa region, which includes Djibouti, Somalia and  Kenya , has
caused a drought and a famine that has killed thousands of
people as well as livestock.  “When you see the sheer numbers of animal dead bodies
along the road you know that this means that people have less
capacity to buy their food today and tomorrow,” Cristina
Amaral, chief of operations for FAO’s emergency operations and
rehabilitation unit, said in the statement.  The FAO has asked for $161 million in funding to help
farmers and pastoralists across the Horn of  Africa , and has
received $57 million in funds or commitments, leaving a funding
gap of about $103 million, it said. The agency plans to use $70
million of the requested funds for Somalia, including for
distribution of seeds and livestock vaccination.  “FAO is concerned that support to incomes and safeguarding
people’s assets has so far been largely overlooked and this will
make recovery slower,” Amaral said.  Measures to be discussed at the Rome meeting include
handing out of seeds, water harvesting and storage of food at
village level, the UN agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 