-- 
Turkey Stocks Snap Seven-Day Decline After Short-Sell Warning

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-08-09T15:48:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/turkish-stocks-set-for-biggest-five-day-loss-since-2001-crisis.html
Turkey’s benchmark  ISE National 100
Index (XU100)  surged in late trading to close up for the first day in
eight, with the gain coming after the bourse said it was
monitoring trades and short-selling after recent falls.  The index surged from a loss to a gain of 1.3 percent in
the last 10 minutes of trading, when the bourse sent its
warning, to close up 677.71 at 52,961.21, snapping seven days of
losses that had sent the index plunging 16 percent.  “There was short covering, cash just went crazy” after
the announcement, said Isik Okte, a trader at Finans Invest in
Istanbul.  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS, the country’s biggest
mobile-phone company, surged from 8.24 liras to 8.94 liras in
the last 10 minutes of trading for an 11 percent gain.  The stock was the second-biggest mover by index points on
the exchange after  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , the country’s
biggest listed company, which gained 26 kurus, or 4.2 percent,
to 6.46 liras. The banking index rose 2.8 percent, its biggest
gain since May 31.  Investors have withdrawn money from Turkish equities over
the past month as global economic uncertainty heightens concern
the country will be unable to manage its record current-account
deficit and weakening lira. Traders also said they’re pulling
out as the central bank’s policy mix is producing unclear
results.  “There’s no need to expect a sustained recovery given the
still blurred European outlook, and confusion about the central
bank’s responses,” Nezihi Abay, head of trading at Global
Securities in Istanbul, said in e-mailed responses to questions.  Turkey ’s central bank has tried to control the country’s
record current-account deficit by using measures to slow lending
at banks while also cutting its benchmark interest rate to boost
growth amid pessimism about the global economic outlook. The
policy has received a mixed reception from investors.  “Turkey has a lot of things going for it, and that used to
include economic policy,”  Kieran Curtis , a  fund manager  at
Aviva Investors in  London , said in e-mailed responses to
questions. “Now I’m not so sure. We have a central bank that’s
talking about lower rates in a world where risk is rising.”  The policy mix has helped send the lira tumbling from
1.5106 per dollar in April to as high as 1.7902 in early trading
today, before the central bank cut  interest rates  on foreign
currency lending to increase liquidity. The lira fell 0.5
percent to 1.7734 per dollar at 6:31 p.m. in Istanbul.  “The central bank of Turkey has had a global macro view
that seems to be the correct one,” Olgay Buyukkayali, an
analyst at Nomura Holdings Ltd., said in a report mailed to
clients today. “While we are very cautious about the long-term
consequences of post-modern policies, short-term they seem to be
sustainable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  