-- 
Turkey’s Lira Appreciates After Central Bank Reduces Dollar Lending Rate

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-08-09T12:54:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/turkish-lira-climbs-after-central-bank-cuts-dollar-lending-rate.html
The lira headed for its biggest one-
day rise in forty days and performed the best among emerging
markets, rebounding from the lowest in more than two years,
after the central bank cut its lending rate for deposits in
dollars and euros to help boost foreign exchange liquidity.  The lira gained 1.2 percent to 1.7603 per dollar at 1:53
p.m. in Istanbul. The bank in Ankara lowered the lending rate in
dollars to 4.5 percent from 5.5 percent and the rate in euros to
5.5 percent from 6.5 percent, according to an e-mailed statement
today.  “This is positive in the sense that it is showing the
central bank’s intentions,” Baris Karaayvaz, a currency trader
at Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS in Istanbul, said in e-mailed
comments. “The central bank is cutting the cost of liquidity
and it does not want to permit extreme movements that may be
caused by the absence of liquidity.”  The central bank has taken measures to stem a decline in
the lira that may encourage higher inflation, including starting
dollar-selling auctions on Aug. 5.  “Developments in the foreign exchange market will be
watched closely and measures that are needed will be taken in a
timely fashion,” the central bank said in a statement
accompanying today’s decision.  State Fund Sales  Turkey ’s state-run employment fund Iskur sold foreign
currency for liras for the second day after the lira extended a
two-year low against the dollar, General Manager Kemal Bicerli
said in an interview. The $80 million transaction followed the
sale of $85 million yesterday, Bicerli said in a telephone
interview from Ankara. Iskur may sell more foreign exchange “in
the coming days” depending on market opportunities, he said.  The central bank has taken measures to arrest a slide in
the lira, which accelerated amid concern over the nation’s
record-high current account deficit. The deficit widened to
$68.2 billion, or about 9 percent of economic output, in the 12
months through May.  The lira trimmed its loss to 4.2 percent since Aug. 4, when
the central bank cut its  interest rates  by half a percentage
point to a record low of 5.75 percent at an extraordinary
meeting, citing risk of an economic slowdown spreading from
 Europe . The bank sold $70 million in an auction today.  The central bank has lowered its benchmark repo rate by 125
basis points since November to 5.75 percent, while adding to
 reserve requirements  for lira deposits to rein credit growth.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc revised its lira forecast
of 1.75-1.80 to year-end to 1.90 today against the dollar,
citing the country’s large financing gap and ’’uncertainty over
the policy outlook.’’  Worst Performer  The lira dropped 12.5 percent this year, the worst
performer among 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, on
concern the fastest growing G-20 economy is overheating as low
borrowing costs spur rising inflation and a record current-
account deficit.  “Foreign investors currently appear to have little
understanding/faith in the monetary policy mix at present, while
there is evidence that the weak global backdrop is beginning to
turn the domestic investor base much more negative,” Tim Ash,
the London-based head of emerging-market strategy at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc, said in a note.  Credit default swaps insuring Turkish government debt
against default over five years rose 6.88 to 247.64 today.  “Foreign exchange weakness is all the more ‘‘concerning’’
given that this is prime holiday season and foreign exchange
coffers should being swollen by a record tourism season,” Ash
said.  Yields on the two-year bonds climbed four basis point, or
0.04 percentage point, to 8.38 percent, a RBS local bond index
showed. The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  fell for an eighth day and
traded 0.8 percent lower at 51,853.26, bringing its five-day
decline to 16 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  