-- 
Verizon to Pay $50,000 Rewards to Stop Vandalism Amid Strike

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 
2011-08-09T18:23:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/verizon-to-begin-advertising-50-000-rewards-to-stop-vandalism.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s
conflict with unions representing about 45,000 employees
escalated in its third day with workers staging protests and the
company saying it will offer $50,000 rewards to stop vandalism.  Workers picketed Verizon locations throughout its region
today, with more than 200 gathering in front of the company’s
New York headquarters. The workers in  Manhattan  booed as people
walked in and out of the office and chanted, “When they say,
‘give back,’ we say ‘fight back.’”  Verizon, the second-largest U.S. phone company, said it
will begin advertising the rewards for information about
vandalism to its network and equipment after at least a dozen
acts of sabotage. The advertisements will begin in local markets
tomorrow, said  Peter Thonis , a company spokesman.  In Delaware, Verizon today filed a lawsuit against local
unions asking a state judge to issue injunctions to stop
demonstrators from blocking entrances in Newark and Dover,
Delaware, shutting off power, and using “crazy glue” to jam
fence mechanisms and service-truck locks.  “Plaintiff has suffered serious disruption and curtailment
of its business” from the strikers’ acts, the company said in
the complaint filed in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  Expired Contract  Verizon and the unions are at odds over a new contract to
replace one that expired at midnight on Aug. 6. The company,
facing a decline in its traditional landline phone business, is
seeking work-rule changes and monthly health-care payments.
Workers contend they shouldn’t have to make substantial
concessions as profits rise and executive pay remains healthy.  Verizon is having “high-level” negotiations with the
unions, Thonis said in an interview. The striking employees,
about a quarter of Verizon’s staff, are members of the
 Communications Workers of America  and the International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers unions.  Verizon, whose larger and more profitable wireless unit is
unaffected by the strike, fell 2 cents to $33.10 at 1:57 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock had dropped
7 percent this year before today.  Verizon has trained more than 40,000 managers and
contractors to step into the roles of union workers and minimize
any delays or disruptions in service calls and installations.  ‘Contract Constraints’  In an Aug. 7 statement, Verizon Chief Executive Officer
Lowell McAdam said the company needs concessions from unions
because of the division’s customer losses and eroding
profitability. He also cited the competitive threat from cable-
television providers, saying they don’t have similar “contract
constraints, enabling them to be more nimble and flexible
meeting customer needs.”  Verizon’s competitors also include  AT&T Inc. (T) , the biggest
U.S. phone carrier and second-largest wireless operator. AT&T
has proposed acquiring Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-Mobile USA,
allowing it to surpass  Verizon Wireless  as the No. 1 U.S. mobile
carrier.  Verizon’s revenue and profit fell last year as declines in
the landline business offset growth in wireless. The number of
fixed lines, including residential and business customers, slid
8.2 percent to 26 million at the end of last year, extending
declines since 2003. During the same period, wireless
subscribers more than doubled to 94.1 million.  First in 11 Years  The strike is the first at Verizon in 11 years. Although
Verizon’s unions authorized strikes in 2008 and 2003, they
haven’t gone out on strike since 2000. That 18-day standoff
affected 28 million customers and cost Verizon $40 million in
revenue. The company settled the dispute by agreeing to a 12
percent wage increase over three years.  At the New York protest, Dennis Swarbrick, a 54-year-old
technician who said he has worked at Verizon for 20 years, said
he is concerned about the company’s demands because his son is
going to college in a few weeks and he has other financial
obligations.  “I have a mortgage,” he said. “I have car insurance. I
work week to week. What am I going to do next week when the
bills come?”  The lawsuit is Verizon of  Delaware  Inc. v. Communications
Workers of America, CA6766, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  