-- 
Vietnam Investment Firm to Start Nation’s Largest Energy Fund

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-09T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/vietnam-investment-firm-to-start-nation-s-largest-energy-fund.html
Saigon Asset Management Corp. , which
last month announced it’s starting  Vietnam ’s first distressed-
assets fund, plans to raise $300 million for an energy fund that
would be the country’s largest.  Saigon Asset Management is reviewing about a dozen thermal
and hydropower projects in Vietnam that its energy fund might
invest in, as well as developments in Laos and  Cambodia , Kevin
Flaherty, managing director of the company’s energy and natural
resources investments, said in a phone interview.  Vietnam is aiming to reduce government control in the power
industry and implement a market-pricing system to attract
foreign investments. The country announced this month an energy
development plan that includes spending $45 billion to more than
triple its electricity generation capacity through the end of
the decade.  “If you look at growth over the next two decades, this is
a good sector to be in,” Flaherty said. “There’s a clear
understanding from the decision makers that the sector needs
fairly-priced tariffs that will provide a reasonable rate of
return and encourage investors.”  Saigon Asset Management plans to begin meeting investors to
raise capital for the fund late next month, Flaherty said. The
firm currently manages two funds totaling $125 million, said its
chief executive officer, Louis Nguyen, who’s a former managing
director of Vietnam’s biggest fund manager, VinaCapital
Investment Management Ltd.  Power Plants   “There’s so much demand and inevitable growth,” said
Giles Cooper, a lawyer for  Duane Morris Vietnam LLC , which works
with power investors in the country. “At the moment, there are
massive monopolies and state control of the economy. That’s
shifting haltingly toward a more competitive landscape.”  Separately, Saigon Asset Management has signed an initial
agreement with An Khanh Electricity Joint Stock Co. to invest
in two coal-fired thermal power plants in northern Vietnam,
Flaherty said.  Vietnam wants to raise generation capacity to 75,000
megawatts by 2020 from 21,600 megawatts in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane, Ching Shen Lee at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net  