-- 
Vietnam Central Bank Allows Gold Imports to Stabilize Market

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-09T06:02:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/vietnam-s-central-bank-willing-to-allow-gold-imports-1-.html
Vietnamese companies have been given
permission to import a total of five metric tons of gold, the
nation’s central bank said after local prices surged to a record.  The move will help “stabilize” the market, the  State Bank 
of Vietnam said in a  statement  on its website today. The central
bank also said it plans to give businesses further licenses to
import an additional five tons of gold to meet domestic demand.  “The move will help narrow the gap between local and
international gold prices,” said Ho Chi Minh City-based Phan Dung Khanh, research manager at Kim Eng Vietnam Securities Co.
“It will also help stabilize the dollar-dong  exchange rate .”  Gold futures exceeded $1,770 an ounce for the first time as
a worldwide rout in equities and commodities deepened on concern
the global economic slowdown will worsen after  Standard & Poor’s 
cut the U.S. credit rating. In  Vietnam , gold rose to 45.75
million dong ($2,200) per tael in Hanoi this morning, an all-
time high, according to information from Vietnam Posts and
Telecommunications. One tael is about 1.2 ounces.  The permission granted today aims to prevent speculation
and manipulation in the gold market, the State Bank said.  The monetary authority also said its “consistent policy” is
to stabilize the value of the dong and that it’s “risky” for
people to buy and hold gold at the moment.  The currency was devalued by about 7 percent in February,
the most since at least 1993. Officials have tried to steady the
dong by clamping down on the use of dollars and gold.  --Nguyen Kieu Giang and Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi. Editors: Sunil Jagtiani, K. Oanh Ha  To contact Bloomberg News Staff on this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at +84-4-3936-6725 or
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi 
 oha3@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpool4@bloomberg.net  