-- 
Visa Unveils Incentives to Speed Shift to Mobile-Payment Systems

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-08-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/visa-unveils-plan-to-speed-adoption-of-mobile-payment-systems.html
Visa Inc. (V)  unveiled plans to
encourage U.S. retailers to shift to checkout systems that let
consumers pay using their mobile phones, as the biggest payment
network aims to jump ahead of rivals and curb credit-card fraud.  The company said it will let merchants that switch to
credit-card readers supporting so-called  EMV technology  forego
costly annual security certifications. Starting in 2015, it will
also stop requiring banks to reimburse most merchants for some
types of credit-card fraud, which can be prevented by using EMV
systems, Visa said in a statement yesterday.  Visa wants to boost sales of new terminals and accelerate
the move to transactions made via cell phones with near field
communication chips, an emerging standard in mobile technology.
When tapped on the new readers, enabled mobile phones can
function like credit and debit cards. Research firm Crone
Consulting LLC estimates that only about 200,000 of 6 million
store terminals now accept such contactless payments.  “It will speed up adoption of mobile payments by a year,”
said  Rick Oglesby , a senior analyst at Aite Group LLC in Mesa,
 Arizona . The total value of mobile payments for digital and
physical goods, money transfers and near field communication
transactions  will reach  $670 billion globally by 2015, up from
$240 billion this year, according to U.K.-based consulting firm
Juniper Research Ltd.  Visa’s security certification compliance costs businesses
more than $2 billion a year, according to industry association
Smart Card Alliance. The cost savings are an incentive for
merchants to invest in point-of-sale upgrades, said Randy Vanderhoof, executive director of the group.  Support From Banks  Visa, based in  San Francisco , also said it will require
payment processors such as First Data Corp. to support EMV
transactions by April 2013. Other credit-card networks are
likely to offer similar inducements for merchants to switch to
EMV terminals soon, Vanderhoof said.  “There’s been a stalemate between issuers and the
merchants about EMV that’s finally going to be broken,” he
said.  Banks support EMV’s adoption as a way to combat credit-card
fraud, in which thieves copy magnetic-stripe cards. While EMV
has taken off in Europe and  Canada , U.S. merchants have resisted
spending money to upgrade. Visa announced similar incentives for
businesses abroad  in February , but waited to offer them in the
U.S. until implications of recent regulatory changes became
clear, said Eduardo Perez, Visa’s head of global payment system
risk.  “It’s going to provide a significant boost for merchants
to adopt contactless terminals,” Perez said.  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) 
and  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  have endorsed Visa’s plans, the company said.  Competing Networks  Visa’s push to get merchants to adopt its system sooner may
make it more difficult for a competing payment network to arise,
said Richard Crone, who heads Crone Consulting.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  ISIS , a joint effort of  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Verizon
Wireless  and  T-Mobile USA , have built their own mobile-payment
applications. While ISIS originally planned to introduce its own
payment network to compete with systems such as Visa’s, ISIS
later scrapped that plan and is now working with existing
credit-card networks. Google is working on its mobile-payment
service with MasterCard Inc.  “It locks in merchants to Visa’s applications and
processing,” Crone said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  