-- 
Westinghouse Closer to U.S. Reactor Approval, Company Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-08-09T16:48:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/westinghouse-close-to-u-s-reactor-approval-company-says-1-.html
Westinghouse Electric Co.’s AP1000
reactor design is a step closer to winning Nuclear Regulatory
Commission approval after revisions requested by the agency, the
 Toshiba Corp. (6502)  unit said.  The agency this week will issue a final safety evaluation
report on Westinghouse’s AP1000 pressurized water reactor, the
company said today in a statement. The commission may act on the
decision early next year, an agency spokesman said.  “We’re in the home stretch to receive final approval,”
Westinghouse Electric Chief Executive Officer Aris Candris said
in the statement. “We’re happy that the NRC technical staff has
approved the amended design.”  Utilities including  Southern Co. (SO)  of Atlanta and  Scana Corp. (SCG) 
of Cayce,  South Carolina , want to build reactors using the
AP1000 design. The NRC notified Southern that it intends to
complete the process to issue a license for construction and
operation of the company’s $14 billion reactors “around the end
of 2011,” the utility said Aug. 3 in a statement. The agency
has received seven AP1000 applications since 2007.  The agency had certified the design in 2006, according to
Westinghouse. It has since been amended to incorporate new NRC
requirements, including being able to withstand the impact of a
 airplane crash . The safety report for the AP1000 includes the
NRC staff’s evaluation of design changes, the company said.  The safety report is a “significant milestone” in
certifying the reactor’s design, NRC spokesman Scott Burnell
said in an e-mail. It must be complete before the commission
issues a license to build and operate the reactors, he said.  Decision ‘Next Year’  The evaluation “is a technical staff document, it is not
approval of the design,” Burnell said. The five-member
commission must certify the reactor design and a vote is
expected “by the beginning of next year,” he said.  NRC Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  said May 20 the agency needed
more information from Cranberry Township, Pennsylvania-based
Westinghouse about the reactor before it would be approved. The
company needed to complete studies showing how parts of the unit
will perform during earthquakes and reactor accidents, according
to the NRC.  Westinghouse gave the NRC “clarifications and minor
corrections” about the reactor that don’t affect safety, and
there’s “no material impact” on its design, according to a
June 13 statement from the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  