-- 
Wisconsin’s ‘First Battle’ of 2012 Election Gets Record Campaign Spending

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 
2011-08-09T20:10:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/wisconsin-s-first-battle-of-2012-election-gets-record-spending.html
The political balance of power in
Wisconsin may shift today as voters in six state Senate
districts decide whether to recall a half-dozen Republicans and
add fuel to attempts to oust first-term Governor  Scott Walker .  Spending on the recall campaigns, aimed at six Republicans
today and two Democrats Aug. 16, may almost triple the combined
cost of all 115 state legislative races in 2010, according to
the nonpartisan  Wisconsin Democracy Campaign . Costs may approach
$40 million, the group said.  If Republicans suffer a net loss of three seats, control of
the Senate would shift to Democrats, who would be able to block
the agenda of Republican Walker, 43. Republican lawmakers
control the Wisconsin Legislature and approved Walker’s curbs on
collective bargaining for most public employees this year,
inciting weeks of protests and prompting the recall campaigns.  “This is viewed as the first battle of the 2012
election,” said Jay Heck, executive director of the nonpartisan
 Wisconsin Common Cause , in a telephone interview. “The
campaigns are not to educate the public and shed light. This is
about character assassination, innuendo and attack.”  The record number of recall elections has disrupted a
normally apolitical  Wisconsin  summer, with Republican and
Democratic interest groups -- most from outside the state --
spending tens of millions of dollars in television and radio ads
that mirror the nation’s political divisions.  Candidates Are ‘Bystanders’  “It doesn’t matter what the candidates raise,” said Mike
McCabe, executive director of the  Wisconsin Democracy Campaign ,
a watchdog group that tracks campaign spending. “They might as well
be bystanders.”  Republican groups see the votes today as an attack on
Walker and a potential threat to his fiscally conservative
policies and efforts to rein in the influence of public-employee
unions. Democratic groups and organized labor, a traditional
ally, view the collective-bargaining curbs as a political
assault on unions that could spread nationally.  “These recalls are a battle of the bases,” said Mordecai Lee, a professor of political science at the University of
Wisconsin-Milwaukee. “The ads are used to strike fear into the
hearts of the bases.”  Spending estimates are rising. Political interest groups
registered with the Wisconsin  Government Accountability Board ,
the state’s elections bureau, reported $14.2 million in spending
as of yesterday. At least $14 million in additional spending has
come from unregistered groups for television ads and other
efforts, said Michael Buelow, research director for the
Wisconsin Democracy Campaign.  Neck and Neck  “I’ve heard the Republicans saying the Democrats have
radically outspent them, and the other way around,” Buelow
said. “Don’t buy it. As best as we can tell, they are running
neck and neck on spending.”  The biggest contributors for Democrats are We Are
Wisconsin, a coalition of labor groups led by the AFL-CIO, and
the  Greater Wisconsin Committee . The leading Republican support
groups are the  Club for Growth  and Americans for Prosperity.  Recall efforts by Democrats against Republican senators
began even before Walker’s collective-bargaining curbs received
final legislative approval in March. As many as 16 senators were
targeted -- eight Republicans who voted for the bill and eight
Democrats who fled the state in an effort to prevent a vote.
Recall attempts against eight senators failed to get enough
signatures to be put on the ballot.  Arranging Rides  Republicans Dan Kapanke, Sheila Harsdorf, Alberta Darling,
Luther Olsen, Robert Cowles and Randy Hopper face recall today,
while Democrats Jim Holperin and Robert Wirch are on the ballot
Aug. 16. If Democrats win five or six seats today, the races
next week would become moot.  Voter turnout in the Milwaukee suburb of Glendale was
heavier than expected, said Susanne Hanaman, the city clerk.  Common Cause ’s Heck said the outcome of today’s vote will
influence efforts to oust Walker, who legally can’t be recalled
until he has been in office for one year.  Support groups have been arranging rides for people to
vote. Lee predicted turnout in the six districts will be about
50 percent, more than twice that of a normal special election.  “I think less than 12 people have not made up their
minds,” Heck said. “We’re seeing literally millions of dollars
spent to persuade those who have not decided.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  