-- 
World’s Highest Port Costs Drive Trade From South Africa: Freight Markets

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-08-09T22:07:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/world-s-highest-port-costs-drive-trade-from-south-africa-freight-markets.html
South Africa ’s port in Durban
charges more than any other major dock in the world, forcing up
costs for companies such as  Sappi Ltd. (SAP)  and  Mondi Ltd. (MND)  and
undermining government attempts to boost exports and create
jobs.  State-owned Transnet SOC Ltd. charges an average container
vessel $182,151 to dock in the eastern city, according to the
Ports Regulator of South Africa. That’s more than double a
global average of $86,251 and the highest of 100 top harbors.  Things may get worse next year with Transnet’s application
to increase fees for port services and facilities by 18 percent.
Combined with the rand’s strength and rising labor and energy
costs, such charges are limiting profits at exporters including
Sappi, the world’s largest maker of glossy paper, rival Mondi
and  ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. (ACL) , the continent’s biggest
steelmaker, said Mohamed Kharva, an analyst at Nedbank Group
Ltd., the country’s fourth-largest bank.  “Companies such as Sappi are plagued by higher costs and
don’t have the pricing power to pass this on to customers,”
Kharva said in a telephone interview from Johannesburg. “It’s
extremely negative for the company. Their profitability starts
to diminish and that doesn’t make it a great investment.”  Kharva recommends that investors sell shares of Sappi,
Mondi and ArcelorMittal.  The rand has climbed about 33 percent against the dollar
since January 2009, wage increases averaged 7.5 percent in the
first half and power costs are up 26 percent this year.  Unreliable Services  Hamburg-based MACS Maritime Carrier Shipping GmbH & Co. is
reducing its business in South Africa because of rising costs
and the unreliability of port services, Managing Director Felix
Scheder-Bieschin said in a telephone interview from  Cape Town .
Johannesburg-based Sappi is considering using Maputo port in
neighboring  Mozambique  for exports from its Nelspruit mill
located in the northeast of the country.  “It hobbles the economy of South Africa,” Glenn
Adriaanse, export-services manager at Sappi Trading, said in a
telephone interview from Durban. “These costs all add up and
eventually filter down to the bottom line.”  Sappi, which shut mills in South Africa and  Switzerland  in
the past year, posted an unexpected loss of $0.13 a share in the
three months through June, the company said Aug. 4.  Exporters and shippers say a lack of competition
contributes to high costs. More than 90 percent of goods sold
overseas pass through South Africa’s harbors, and the National
Ports Authority, a unit of Transnet, manages all ports except
Richard’s Bay Coal Terminal. Durban, the continent’s busiest,
represents 61 percent of South Africa’s container cargo.  Near-Monopoly Control  Because of its near-monopoly, Transnet can charge cargo
dues, a fixed cost on containers that pays for road and rail
links and lighting at the harbors. Other ports tend to charge
only for work on so-called wet infrastructure, such as
breakwaters and dredging.  Productivity at South African ports also is lower than at
other major docks, resulting in congestion and delays, according
to a study published by the Ports Regulator in September 2010.
Cranes at Durban port move an average 23 containers an hour,
compared with 94 in Antwerp,  Belgium , the study said.  “We’re paying first-class prices for economy-class
services,” Scheder-Bieschin said. “We see cost and efficiency
as a threat to our business.”  Tau Morwe, chief executive officer of the National Ports
Authority, wasn’t available to comment for this story, his
assistant Nomsa Dlamini said. Mayihlome Tshwete, spokesman for
Public Enterprises Minister  Malusi Gigaba , who oversees
Transnet, didn’t respond to two e-mails seeking comment.  Falling Exports  Export growth already is suffering, failing to keep pace
with expansion. Goods sold abroad, excluding gold, dropped to 18
percent of gross domestic product last year from 21 percent in
2005, the central bank said in a June report.  South Africa can ill afford to lose trade. The government
estimates the economy must expand 7 percent annually for a
decade to meet its target of creating 5 million jobs and
slashing the  unemployment rate  to 15 percent from 25.7 percent.
The central bank forecasts economic growth of 3.7 percent this
year and 3.9 percent in 2012.  “If they charge what they like, they’ll end up putting
exporters out of business,” said Peter Newton, chief executive
officer of Cape Town-based Seaboard International Trading Ltd.,
which ships fruit and vegetables to mainly European customers.
“It’s the straw on the camel’s back.”  Expand Capacity  The government is trying to address some of these concerns.
It created the regulator in 2007, which approved a 4.5 percent
tariff increase for this year, less than half the 12 percent
sought by the National Ports Authority. Transnet also is
spending 31 billion rand ($4.36 billion) in the next five years
to expand capacity at its container terminals by almost a third.  “Our job is to ensure there’s appropriate pricing,” Riad
Khan, chief executive officer of the Ports Regulator, said in a
phone interview from Durban. “Inefficiency in the port system
is a brake on the economy and pricing can contribute to that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  