-- 
Yahoo Discount Means U.S. Web Portal Free in Takeover: Real M&A

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-08-09T20:17:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/yahoo-discount-to-alibaba-means-u-s-web-portal-free-in-takeover-real-m-a.html
Yahoo! Inc. has cost its shareholders
so much money that a buyer would now be able take over the most-
visited U.S. Web portal for less than the value of its stakes in
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and  Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689)   Yahoo has plummeted 91 percent over the past decade as it
failed to keep  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc. from siphoning off
 Internet users  and advertising revenue. Sunnyvale, California-
based Yahoo, which rejected an offer from  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  for as
much as $47.5 billion three years ago, is now valued at $14
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Putting Yahoo up for sale may help  Carol Bartz  recoup the
losses its owners have suffered since she became chief executive
officer in January 2009. While the company’s revenue has fallen
in the past two years, its investments in Alibaba Group and
Yahoo Japan may be worth 44 percent more than Yahoo itself,
Thornburg Investment Management said. Traders in the options
market are also betting Yahoo will increase in value, ramping up
bullish wagers to the highest level in almost two years.  “What you get is the core U.S. business for free,” Di Zhou,  Santa Fe , New Mexico-based analyst at Thornburg
Investment, which oversees about $80 billion, including Yahoo
shares, said in a telephone interview. Yahoo Japan and Alibaba
are “more than enough to explain the current stock price. That
was our initial investment thesis,” she said.  Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Yahoo, declined to comment
on rumors or speculation.  Advertising Revenue  Yahoo, a pioneer in providing information and services over
the Internet, was founded in 1994 by Jerry Yang and David Filo
at  Stanford University .  Its home page aggregates news, offers free e-mail and
provides services that help users do everything from finding a
new house to getting a date. Yahoo, using technology provided by
Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft, also competes with Google
for users searching the Internet for information.  Once an $80 billion company, Yahoo’s share of the U.S.
online ad market will drop to 9.7 percent next year from 16
percent in 2009, according to New York-based firm EMarketer Inc.
Google’s will increase to 45 percent, while Facebook will more
than triple its portion of the online ad market to 7.8 percent.  Last month, Yahoo reported second-quarter revenue that fell
short of estimates as Bartz’s overhaul of the U.S. sales force
made it harder to close deals and slowed growth in advertising
for banner ads and video clips.  Comparative Returns  Bartz said at the time that sales were held back as more
employees left during the overhaul than the company anticipated.  “Now, we’re intensely focused on monetizing those sites
with the right solutions,” Bartz said in a conference call with
analysts last month. “The changes we’re making will bear fruit
later this year and into 2012.”  Yahoo still forecast sales this quarter of $1.05 billion to
$1.1 billion, short of the $1.12 billion analysts projected.  The setbacks, along with a global rout in equities in the
past week as the U.S. had its AAA credit rating cut by  Standard
& Poor’s  for the first time, erased all the gains since Bartz
was named Yahoo’s CEO in January 2009.  Since Bartz started, Yahoo has declined 8.4 percent through
yesterday. In the same span,  Mountain View , California-based
Google, owner of the largest Internet-search engine, rose 74
percent, while the S&P 500, the benchmark index for American
equity, gained 28 percent.  “The stock is trading probably where it should given the
growth prospects,” said Scott Billeadeau, who helps oversee $17
billion at Fifth Third Asset Management in  Minneapolis . “Yahoo
is a brand. It just doesn’t seem like they’ve been able to
increase the value of that brand.”  Relative Value  With Yahoo closing at $11.09 a share yesterday, the company
sells for less relative to its per-share earnings than at any
time since at least 1997, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Today, Yahoo rose 9 percent to $12.09, the biggest advance
since December 2008 and almost double the  S&P 500 ’s gain.  Thornburg estimates that Yahoo’s Asian assets alone may be
worth almost $16 a share. Yahoo has a 43 percent holding in
Alibaba Group, China’s biggest e-commerce company. Through that
investment, Yahoo owns stakes in Taobao.com, China’s largest
Internet shopping site, and Alibaba.com, which offers e-commerce
services for businesses.  Yahoo will also get compensation for Alipay, China’s most
popular online-payment service, which Alibaba transferred to a
company controlled by Chairman Jack Ma last year.  The assets give Yahoo a foothold in China, the world’s
largest Internet market with 485 million users at the end of
June, according to data from the government-sponsored China
Internet Network Information Center.  Sum of Parts  Using revenue and earnings estimates for 2012, Thornburg’s
Zhou said Yahoo’s stakes in each of the Alibaba businesses are
worth a combined $11.45 a share, while Yahoo’s 35 percent stake
in Yahoo  Japan , the Tokyo-based operator of Japan’s most-visited
web portal, is valued at $4.50 a share.  Add Yahoo’s $2.55 billion in cash and the company may be
worth about $18 a share -- without accounting for its U.S.
operations, based on Zhou’s sum-of-the-parts analysis, which
adjusts for the value of potential taxes and stakes that aren’t
immediately transferable.  The discount may entice private equity firms, which can buy
Yahoo’s U.S. earnings virtually for free, according to Herman Leung, an analyst at Susquehanna Investment Group in  San
Francisco .  Yahoo! Finance, which streams business news and displays
real-time stock prices, is still the most popular finance-news
website with 40 million users in June, according to ComScore
Inc. in Reston, Virginia. That’s almost double that of AOL Money
& Finance, the second-most visited site.  ‘Zero Credit’  Google Finance  had fewer than 2 million users in June and
wasn’t ranked in the top 20, data compiled by ComScore showed.  Leung also said Yahoo would be attractive in a buyout
because of the cash it generates from its U.S. business.  Based on an analysis from Evercore Partners Inc., Yahoo’s
Asian investments amount to $8.10 a share, about half the value
of Thornburg’s estimates. Using the lower projection, Yahoo’s
U.S. unit has an implied value of $2.99 based on yesterday’s
closing price, or 7.3 times the company’s free cash flow per
share in the past 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Google sells for about 22 times its cash from operations
after capital expenses, according to the data.  “Yahoo can take a break from the public markets,” Leung
said in a telephone interview. “Especially if the market is
going to give you zero credit for your core business. Yahoo
shareholders will go for anything at this point.”  ‘Right Off the Bat’  A Yahoo purchase may make sense for Providence Equity
Partners in Providence, Rhode Island, and San Francisco-based
Hellman & Friedman, which agreed to sell DoubleClick Inc. to
Google for $3.1 billion in 2007, according to Leung.  Andrew Cole, a spokesman for Providence Equity, declined to
comment on whether the firm is interested in buying Yahoo, as
did Kelly Smith, a spokeswoman for Hellman & Friedman.  Microsoft, which can now buy Yahoo at less than half what
it offered in 2008, would “start making money right off the
bat” from acquiring the company, according to Sameet Sinha, an
analyst at B. Riley & Co. in San Francisco.  Microsoft’s own online business, which includes its Bing
search engine that Yahoo uses, had an operating loss of $2.6
billion in the year ended June 30.  “The thing that has always made sense to me is
Microsoft,” said Lawrence Haverty, a  money manager  at Gamco
Investors Inc., which oversees about $36 billion, including
Yahoo shares. “They have this joint venture on search. They
tried to buy them once.”  Risks and Rewards  Adam Sohn, a spokesman for Microsoft, declined to comment
on whether it was considering bidding for Yahoo.  Colin Gillis , an analyst with BGC Partners LP in  New York ,
said one of the biggest risks for potential buyers would be
trying to unlock the value from Yahoo’s investments in  China .  Yahoo, Alibaba Group’s biggest shareholder, ended a four-
month dispute last month with the Hangzhou, China-based company
over how it should be compensated for the ownership change in
Alipay to a company controlled by Ma.  Alibaba will get as much as $6 billion if Alipay sells
shares to the public. Yahoo disclosed the loss of Alipay in May,
saying it only learned about the August 2010 transfer in March.  “What we learned from Alipay is there are risks associated
with these assets,” Gillis said. “You still have to answer the
questions that Yahoo is facing right now, which is how do you
turn those assets into cash.”  Traders in the options market are more bullish on Yahoo.
The ratio of outstanding calls to buy Yahoo shares versus puts
to sell rose to 2.21-to-1 last week, the highest since September
2009, and was at 2.19 as of the last close. The fastest-growing
bet last week was the October $15 call, which increased by
almost 10,000 contracts, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  That implies a 35 percent gain from yesterday’s price.  “The cheaper the stock gets the more attractive it
becomes,” said  Aaron Kessler , an analyst at ThinkEquity LLC in
San Francisco. “You’re getting pretty close to the point where
you’re almost showing zero value being attributed to the core
business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 