-- 
Yahoo Sued by Investors on Claims They Were Misled on Alipay Restructuring

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-08-09T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/yahoo-sued-by-investors-on-claims-they-were-misled-on-alipay-restructuring.html
Yahoo! Inc. shareholders, claiming
they were misled about the restructuring of the online payment
business of  China ’s Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., sued the owner
of the biggest U.S. Web portal.  The investors, in a complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in San Francisco, claim the search-engine provider failed
to tell them before May 10 that its $1 billion investment in
Alibaba was “severely impaired” by the transfer of the payment
business, Alipay, to a closely held company controlled by
Alibaba Chairman Jack Ma.  Yahoo management was informed no later than March 31 about
the restructuring, which reduced the value of the Sunnyvale,
California-based company’s investment in Alibaba by billions of
dollars, according to the complaint.  Chinese regulations that precipitated the restructuring
were anticipated in 2009, requiring “Yahoo or Alibaba to divest
themselves of Alipay but Yahoo had failed to develop a strategy
to recover the value it had in Alibaba,” according to the suit.  Alibaba, based in Hangzhou in eastern China, said July 29
that its two biggest shareholders, Yahoo and  Softbank Corp. (9984) ,
 Japan ’s third-biggest mobile carrier, agreed to a compensation
deal that may result in Alibaba receiving as much as $6 billion
from Alipay. The agreement ended a four-month dispute between
Alibaba, China’s biggest e-commerce company, and foreign
shareholders over the spinoff of Alipay.  The sale of the online payment business to Ma’s company
last year lacked the approval of the board and was only
disclosed to investors in March, Yahoo said previously.  The lawsuit was filed on behalf of the Twin City Pipe
Trades Service Association based in Saint Paul,  Minnesota .  Dana Lengkeek, a Yahoo spokeswoman, had no immediate
comment yesterday.  The case is Twin City Pipe Trades Pension v. Yahoo! Inc.,
11-03870, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California 
( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  