-- 
Swiss Franc, Yen Strengthen as Havens on Slowdown; Dollar Falls Before Fed

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-08-09T17:46:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/yen-strengthens-as-u-s-slowdown-european-debt-concern-spurs-haven-demand.html
The franc and yen gained against all
their most-traded peers, pushing the Swiss currency to records
versus the dollar and euro, as investors sought stability amid a
U.S. economic slowdown and  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The dollar fell against the euro as investors bet the
 Federal Open Market Committee  will repeat its pledge to maintain
stimulus measures to revive confidence in the  U.S. economy . The
pound slumped versus the greenback as U.K. manufacturing
unexpectedly fell and the worst civil unrest in 30 years spread.
 Canada ’s currency snapped a seven-day losing streak as
commodities and equities rallied.  “It looks like FX is not buying into the rebound right
now, as the Swiss franc and the yen are at their strongest and
the dollar is recovering too,” said  Brian Dolan , chief
strategist at FOREX.com, a unit of the online currency trading
firm Gain Capital in Bedminster,  New Jersey . “It’s primarily
sterling that’s leading the way down here and supporting the
dollar.”  The yen strengthened 0.9 percent to 77.07 per dollar at
1:43 p.m. in New York, climbing for a third straight day. The
dollar depreciated 0.4 percent to $1.4234 per euro, while the
shared European currency dropped 0.5 percent to 109.73 yen.  The franc climbed as much as 3.3 percent to a record 1.0356
per euro before trading at 1.0399. It strengthened 3.7 percent
to touch an all-time high of 72.69 centimes per dollar.  The pound fell 0.6 percent to $1.6214, reversing an earlier
advance to $1.6411. Sterling dropped 1 percent to 87.80 pence
per euro and lost 1.54 percent to 124.96 yen.  Fed Meeting  Federal Reserve policy makers at today’s meeting may
prolong a pledge to maintain record stimulus, economists at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., BNP Paribas SA and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. said. The Fed could commit to hold its $2.87 trillion
balance sheet steady for an “extended period,” they said.  U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 1.3 percent annual
pace from April through June, less than the 1.8 percent median
forecast, after almost stalling in the first quarter as
consumers retrenched, government data showed on July 29.  By a 52 percent to 48 percent margin, respondents in a
Bloomberg News survey said the Fed would ease policy this year
through monetary tools or statement language. If the central
bank acts, 59 percent said it would communicate that the federal
funds rate, balance sheet or both will remain especially
stimulative for a longer period or more specific amount of time.  Quantitative Easing  The central bank is likely to embark on a third round of
large-scale asset purchases under quantitative easing, moving
“more decisively” to secure the U.S. recovery, Harvard
University economist  Kenneth Rogoff  said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, slipped 0.3
percent today to 74.550.  The Japanese currency has almost erased its decline since
the nation’s unilateral intervention in the foreign-exchange
market pushed it to as weak as 80.24 per dollar on Aug. 4. The
 Bank of Japan  added 10 trillion yen ($129 billion) of monetary
stimulus that day. BOJ Governor Masaaki Hirakata today said
volatile exchange rates could have a “negative impact” on the
nation’s economy.  Sterling weakened against 13 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg. U.K. factory output declined
0.4 percent in June from the previous month, when it rose 1.8
percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said in  London .
Civil unrest that began in north London on Aug. 6 spread to
other parts of the capital and other cities.  Franc Strengthens  The franc has gained 16 percent over the past month, making
it the best performer among 10 major-economy currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen has risen 4.5
percent, while the euro has declined 0.6 percent.  Implied volatility, a key gauge of option prices that tends
to rise in times of uncertainty, for euro- Swiss franc  one-month
options climbed to touch more than 25 percent for the first
time. The equivalent dollar-franc volatility rate reached 20.2
percent, the most since January 2009.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
rose 0.5 percent after falling 2.8 percent yesterday. The  S&P
500 Index  rallied 2 percent after posting its biggest loss since
2008 yesterday.  Canada’s currency rose 0.4 percent to 99.08 cents per  U.S.
dollar  as crude oil, the nation’s biggest export, advanced.
Crude for September delivery gained as much as 2.1 percent to
$83.05 a barrel in New York.  ECB Buys Bonds  The  European Central Bank  bought Italian and Spanish
government bonds for a second day to drive yields lower,
according to three people with knowledge of the transactions. An
ECB spokesman declined to comment.  Euro-region leaders agreed on July 21 to empower the
European Financial Stability Facility bailout fund to buy bonds
in the secondary markets. The ECB intervened as the buyer of
last resort while waiting for the EFSF plan to be ratified in
the national parliaments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  