-- 
Yingluck Names Stock Regulator Thirachai to Be Thailand’s Finance Minister

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-08-10T05:24:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/yingluck-names-stock-regulator-thirachai-as-finance-minister.html
Thai Prime Minister Yingluck
Shinawatra named Thirachai Phuvanatnaranubala as finance
minister, tapping a veteran central bank policy maker and
securities regulator in a move that may reassure investors.  Thirachai, 59, was named as part of Yingluck’s 36-member
Cabinet that was endorsed yesterday by  King Bhumibol Adulyadej ,
according to a copy of the royal command. Surapong Tovichakchaikul was appointed foreign minister and former stock
exchange head Kittiratt Na Ranong was named commerce minister.  Thirachai’s challenge will be to find ways to pay for
Yingluck’s election pledges to increase wages and rice prices
even as he inherits inflation near a 32-month high. The central
bank last month signaled it may add to eight interest rate
increases over the past year and called for “harmony” between
fiscal and monetary policy to contain price pressures.  “His background at the central bank may help ease
potential policy tensions between the  finance ministry  and the
central bank,” said Santitarn Sathirathai, a Singapore-based
economist at Credit Suisse Group AG. “A fresh face with an
understanding of capital markets and banks is probably what the
market will like, too.”  The benchmark SET Index jumped 1.8 percent to 1,061.02 as
of 12:17 p.m. local time, poised for its biggest gain in more
than a month. The baht advanced 0.3 percent to 29.82 per dollar,
and has climbed 3.3 percent since the election, the biggest gain
among 10 most-traded currencies in  Asia  excluding the yen.  Election Pledges  The campaign promises by Yingluck’s Pheu Thai party would
cost 2.3 trillion baht ($77 billion), about half involving
agriculture and transport infrastructure projects, Phatra
Securities Pcl said in a July 19 note.  The government will “talk to many parties” to ensure the
spending plan won’t threaten economic stability, Yingluck told
reporters in Bangkok today.  “I will focus on fiscal discipline,” Thirachai wrote on
his  Facebook  page today, confirming the comments in a mobile-
phone text message. “I will be the coordinator between
government officials and the party’s policies to ensure they are
in harmony.”  Yingluck, who put together a 300-seat coalition in the 500-
member parliament after winning a majority in the July 3
election, also pledged to cut corporate taxes, build high-speed
train lines and give tablet computers to students. The planned
spending makes inflation a greater concern than threats to
growth, the central bank said July 27.  Yingluck’s Cabinet must present its policies for a
confidence vote 15 days after taking office.  Central Bank Experience  Thirachai replaces Korn Chatikavanij, the Oxford-trained
former chairman of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Thai unit who presided
over the economy’s fastest expansion in 15 years in 2010.  Thirachai received a bachelor’s degree in economics from
the  London School  of Economics before beginning a 25-year career
with the Bank of Thailand, where he oversaw financial
institutions and was deputy governor in 2002.  He was among the top four candidates for the position of
governor last year. Korn instead chose Prasarn Trairatvorakul,
the former head of Kasikornbank Pcl.  Thirachai resigned as secretary-general of the  Securities &
Exchange Commission  on Aug. 5, after Yingluck’s initial choice
for finance minister,  Siam Commercial Bank Pcl (SCB)  Chairman Vichit
Suraphongchai, withdrew his candidacy.  “Though Thirachai has experience at the Bank of Thailand
and the SEC, he has less experience in implementing policy  than
Vichit,” said  Andrew Stotz , a Bangkok-based strategist at Kim
Eng Securities ( Thailand ) Pcl, the nation’s largest stock
brokerage.  Shin Corp. Probe  As head of the regulator, Thirachai oversaw a probe into
the 2006 sale of holding company Shin Corp. to Temasek Holdings
Pte by Yingluck’s brother and former Prime Minister  Thaksin
Shinawatra , who was deposed in a 2006 coup. Thaksin’s family
didn’t pay tax on the proceeds of the deal, which fueled street
protests against his administration that culminated in the coup.  A court last year seized about 60 percent of the 76.6
billion baht that Thaksin’s family earned from the sale.
Yingluck made about 985 million baht in the deal, according to
stock exchange filings.  The SEC fined Thaksin’s son, Panthongtae, 6 million baht in
2006 for violating disclosure rules over the sale. In June, the
SEC cleared Yingluck of a similar charge, ruling that she wasn’t
required to disclose her stake in Shin Corp. because she held
less than 5 percent of the shares.  Cabinet Appointments  Yingluck named Kittiratt and Yongyuth Wichaidit as deputy
prime ministers, while Yongyuth will also serve as interior
minister.  Other Cabinet members include Defense Minister Yuthasak
Sasiprapha, Energy Minister Pichai Naripthaphan, Transport
Minister Sukumpol Suwannatat, Agriculture Minister Theera
Wongsamut, Information Minister Anudit Nakornthap and Industry
Minister Wannarat Channukul.  As finance minister, Thirachai may also butt up against
opposition from exporters such as  Hana Microelectronics Pcl (HANA) , the
nation’s largest packager of semiconductors, as an appreciation
in the baht, an economic slowdown in key export markets in
 Europe  and the U.S., increased borrowing costs and the specter
of higher wages threaten to erode their competitiveness.  A group of 12 associations from labor-intensive industries
that employ about one million people said last week that higher
wages may reduce orders and force them to cut their workforce by
as much as 30 percent.  Pheu Thai pledged to raise the  minimum wage  to 300 baht per
day during the election campaign. The daily minimum wage in
Thailand ranges from 159 baht in northern Phayao province to 221
baht on the resort island of Phuket, according to the Labour
Protection and Welfare Department’s website.  “The wage rise will increase our costs and hurt our export
competitiveness,” said Verachai Kunavichayanont, chairman of
the Thai Furniture Industry Club. “The government may see only
a positive impact, but there is also a negative side-effect to
small- and medium-sized companies and their workers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  