-- 
3M Expands in Touch-Screen Films Amid ‘Exploding’ Market

-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 
2011-03-25T20:24:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/3m-expands-in-touch-screen-films-amid-exploding-tablet-market.html
3M Co. (MMM) , whose electronics unit
supplies components to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , is raising a 4-year-old bet
on rapid smartphone growth by expanding in touch-screen films,
which are also used on tablet computers and e-book readers.  “The market is just exploding, and we are ahead of it,”
Tony DeRose, business manager for 3M’s electronics markets
materials unit, said in an interview. 3M values the global
market for touch-screen materials at $2 billion and is boosting
production capacity for optically clear adhesives, as the films
are known, in  South Korea , China,  Taiwan  and  Singapore .  Originally developed by 3M’s industrial division for
welding visors, the films are used to  join panels  between the
liquid crystal display, or LCD, on smartphones and tablets and
the surface that users swipe to control the devices. The
electronics unit posted $1 billion in sales last year, about 3.8
percent of the company’s total.  “We’ve had assets since 2007 for electronics, and we built
those up to really grab the smartphone market,” DeRose said. 3M
has rivals for the touch-screen film market in  Japan ,  China  and
 Korea .  “It’s not a landscape that is void of competitors,” he
said. “That’s why our investments are important.” 3M declined
to say how much was spent on the expansions.  Vendors last year  shipped  about 17.9 million tablet
computers that feature mobile operating systems such as Apple’s
iOS, and an estimated 50.4 million will be sent this year,
Framingham, Massachusetts-based research company IDC said.
Smartphone shipments may rise 49 percent to 452.5 million this
year, IDC said.  ‘Fastest-Growth’ Segments  The electronics markets materials unit has experienced
compound annual growth of 24 percent since it was created in
2002, and 3M said this month that sales may triple in four
years, to $3 billion. 3M doesn’t break out sales figures
specifically for the adhesives. In addition to Apple, the
division’s customers include  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and Samsung
Electronics Co.  The market is important for 3M investors “because it links
them to some of the fastest growth sub-segments that are out
there,” Steve Winoker, a New York-based analyst with Sanford C.
Bernstein, said in a telephone interview.  3M doesn’t disclose whether its parts are in specific
devices including the iPad or iPhone because of confidentiality
agreements with customers, DeRose said. The components are used
with many manufacturers’ leading brands, he said.  ‘Small Innovations’  3M’s Electro and Communications division, which includes
electronics-market materials, may have drawn about 2.7 percent
of its revenue from Apple in the fourth quarter of last year,
according to supply chain estimates from Bloomberg analysts.
Apple represents about 0.3 percent of 3M’s overall sales, or
about $81 million a year, analysts estimated.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment.  The film, while not generating a significant portion of
revenue from the 55,000 products that 3M manufactures, is one of
“many small innovations that cumulatively drive the company’s
growth,” Jeffrey Sprague, co-founder of Vertical Research
Partners in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone
interview.  The technology, which improves the look and feel of a
handheld device and reduces strain on the battery, is “probably
never going to be something that’s just of blockbuster size that
you are talking about in the context of a Post-it Note,” he
said. “It just shows that they’ve continued to advance the
technology nicely in that market.”  Finding a Balance  3M fell 31 cents to $92.27 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have increased 6.9
percent this year.  Expanding production capacity in Asia is part of an
“ongoing effort to further balance the plant footprint with
where the sales are going on,” Sprague said.  While 3M manufacturing customers are based in the U.S.,
their suppliers who handle touch-screen components and assembly
are based in  Asia , DeRose said. About 78 percent of the
electronics markets materials unit’s sales last year were in the
region, the company said in a  March 17 presentation.   3M’s proximity to those manufacturers is important as they
boost production to meet demand for tablet computers that may
nearly triple this year from 2010.  Winning Position  “There are a lot of tablet manufacturers that are coming
on stream, but not all those tablet manufacturers will actually
win, if you will, in the marketplace,” DeRose said. “We
probably see six to 10 of those tablet manufacturers actually
taking some share.”  3M doesn’t have to worry about the outcome of that
competition, said Winoker.  “No matter whose smart phone wins, 3M is most likely going
to be on that phone, and I say the same is on the tablet side,”
Winoker said. “This is not just a cyclical rebound in this
area. You are attaching yourself to a fast-growing trend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Daley in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  