-- 
Maersk, Hapag-Lloyd Cancel Calls at Japanese Ports Because of Earthquake

-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-25T10:02:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/maersk-hapag-lloyd-cancel-calls-at-japanese-ports-because-of-earthquake.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S and Hapag-
Lloyd AG have halted services to some Japanese ports because of
the earthquake and nuclear radiation concerns.  Maersk Line, owner of the world’s largest container fleet,
has stopped taking orders for the ports of Sendai, Onahama and
Hachinohe due to damage. Hamburg, Germany-based Hapag-Lloyd is
avoiding  Tokyo , Yokohama and Nagoya because of the crippled
nuclear reactor in Fukushima.  Tokyo has suffered power shortages and worries over
radiation since the magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami on March
11 crippled the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant 220 kilometers (135
miles) north of Tokyo. Hapag-Lloyd is shipping cargo from other
harbors, such as Kobe, rather than using the three ports closest
to the reactor.  “The carrier is unable to serve various Japanese ports due
to the current situation and the according recommendations of
relevant authorities,” Hapag-Lloyd  said  in a statement on its
website dated March 22. The company did not respond to requests
over the last two days for updated information.  Sendai, Onahama and Hachinohe, which  Maersk Line  serves by
hiring feeder ships from other companies to transport its
containers from Japanese ports it serves, have been damaged by
the tsunami. Maersk Line, which has a global market share of
about 15 percent, isn’t currently taking orders for cargo to
those destinations, spokesman John Churchill said yesterday.  Exclusion Zone  Maersk Line is still serving the six Japanese ports the
company sails to directly with its own ships, Churchill said.
Maersk Line has 17  weekly calls  to Japanese ports, including
eight to Yokohama and one to Tokyo.  “As long as it’s considered safe, Maersk Line vessels will
continue to call in Japan,” Churchill, who is based in
Copenhagen, said. “We have a long tradition and a strong
relationship with  Japan  and we take our responsibility to secure
the lifeline of its more than 127 million people seriously.”  Maersk Line has created a 140-nautical mile exclusion zone
around the damaged Fukushima nuclear plant, the company said
earlier this week. In practical terms, the zone doesn’t affect
its ship routes as they wouldn’t normally sail in that area,
Churchill said.  Mediterranean Shipping Co, the world’s second-largest
container shipping company, and CMA CGM SA, the world’s No. 3,
didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Some 200,000 standard containers were transported by
Hamburg shipping companies through Japan last year. The port has
six liner services transporting goods between Japan and Hamburg,
and some services remain between the German harbor and Tokyo and
Yokohama, said Bengt van Beuningen, a spokesman for Port of
Hamburg Marketing.  Calls Resumed  While Hapag-Lloyd is avoiding Tokyo, other shipping lines
based in Hamburg continue to serve the Japanese capital. Hamburg
Sued, the shipping company owned by  Germany ’s Oetker family,
resumed calls at Tokyo and Yokohama ports with vessels on March
24, after canceling calls at those ports last week, it said in a
statement on its website March 23.  “In all the decisions to be taken, the overriding factor
for us is to ensure the well-being of our mariners and, at the
same time, ensure that Japan is not cut off from the
international flow of merchandise,” said Joachim Konrad, deputy
chairman of the executive board of Hamburg Sued.  Hapag-Lloyd is screening its containers with goods from
affected areas for potential radiation contamination, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  