-- 
Stanford Investors Sue SEC for Losses in Alleged Swindle

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-25T19:04:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/allen-stanford-investors-sue-sec-claiming-negligence-led-to-fraud-losses.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission was sued by eight of indicted financier R. Allen Stanford’s investors, who claim regulators’ negligence and
misconduct caused their losses.  The investors, in a lawsuit filed yesterday in federal
court in  Dallas , said regulators should have investigated
Stanford earlier and detected what the agency later concluded
was a “massive”  Ponzi scheme .  The SEC’s inspector general, in a report issued last year,
faulted the agency’s Fort Worth, Texas, office and some of its
employees for failing to take action against Stanford sooner.  “But for the negligent acts and omissions, misconduct and
breaches of duty by Spencer Barasch, a former SEC regional
enforcement director, the negligent supervision of Barasch by
his SEC supervisors, and other inexcusable acts of negligence by
SEC employees, the plaintiffs would not have made, and lost,
their investments,” according to the complaint filed by the
investors’ lawyer, Edward Gonzales III in  Baton Rouge ,
Louisiana.  U.S. securities regulators seized Stanford’s operations in
February 2009 on suspicion of fraud. Investors who bought
certificates of deposit at the financier’s Antigua-based
Stanford International Bank Ltd. lost more than $7 billion,
according to a lawsuit filed by the SEC.  Barasch, who left the SEC’s Fort Worth office in 2005 and
is now a lawyer in private practice, didn’t immediately return a
call to his Dallas law firm today.  Kevin Callahan , an SEC spokesman, declined comment on the
lawsuit.  Stanford, 61, who is in jail awaiting trial on criminal
charges, has denied any wrongdoing.  Investor Losses  Most of the eight investors who filed the lawsuit live in
southern  Louisiana , where Stanford had a large trust operation.
They claim combined losses of more than $18.7 million, according
to their complaint.  The SEC failed to conduct a meaningful probe of Stanford
until 2005 even though examiners suspected him of operating a
Ponzi scheme eight years earlier, SEC Inspector General H. David Kotz wrote in an internal report in April.  The agency’s Forth Worth office conducted four reviews of
Houston-based Stanford Financial Group Co. starting in 1997 and
determined after each one that Stanford’s purported returns on
certificates of deposit were highly unlikely, Kotz said in the
report.  Ethics Office  Kotz also said in the report that Barasch, after he left
the SEC, tried to represent Stanford on three separate
occasions, until the agency’s ethics office blocked it.  Barasch told Kotz’s investigators that he felt it wasn’t
necessary for his office to act against Stanford because he had
informed other regulatory agencies about the potential fraud,
according to the report. Kotz said he found no evidence of such
referrals in his investigation.  Kotz’s report singled out Barasch as having “played a
significant role in multiple decisions over the years to quash
investigations of Stanford,” Gonzales said in the complaint.  “Through its negligent actions and inactions, the SEC
caused Stanford’s scheme to continue and expand, eventually
resulting in billions in losses by investors,” Gonzales said.  The case is Robert Dartez LLC v. U.S., 3:11-cv-00602, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas).  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-00298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Andrew M. Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 