-- 
Allianz Global Picks Gold, Oil to Lead Commodity Gains on Inflation, Rates

-- B y   K i m   K y o u n g w h a
-- 
2011-03-25T06:57:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/allianz-global-picks-gold-oil-to-lead-commodity-gains-on-inflation-rates.html
Gold and oil will lead gains in
commodities this year as investors seek to guard against rising
inflation stemming from a global economic recovery and low
 interest rates , according to Allianz Global Investors.  Gold will strengthen 19 percent to $1,700 an ounce by the
end of 2011 and oil will climb 14 percent to top $120 a barrel,
Michael Verhofen, Frankfurt-based manager of the Allianz RCM
Commodities Fund, said in an interview. Allianz Global is an
asset management arm of  Europe ’s biggest insurer and oversaw 1.5
trillion euros ($2.1 trillion) of assets as of end-2010.  “The macro environment is strong and we expect rising
commodity prices in the next three to six months,” said
Verhofen. “We expect a strong performance of the energy sector
and the precious metals sector.”  Gold touched a record $1,447.82 an ounce yesterday after
rallying 30 percent in 2010, as investors sought a shelter from
turbulence in the Middle East,  Japan  and Europe. Crude prices
have jumped 16 percent this year as turmoil that drove longtime
rulers from power in Tunisia and  Egypt  spread to  Libya , Yemen,
Bahrain and Syria, causing concern over supply disruption.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials,
climbed to its highest level since August 2008 this month after
a 20 percent advance in 2010. Total commodity assets under
management were at $376 billion in January, matching the record
set a month earlier, according to  Barclays Capital .  Grains, Metals  The $100 million commodity fund returned 2.8 percent this
year, adding to the 9.6 percent gain made from when it started
in October to the end of 2010, Verhofen said. The fund was
overweight wheat, corn, sugar, cotton, copper, aluminium and
nickel from its inception to February, he said.  “The fund was leveraged during this period,” Verhofen
said. “This contributed positively.”  Copper and cotton reached records this year and sugar rose
to a 30-year high, while corn surged 99 percent in the past
year. The Allianz RCM Commodities is a long-only commodity fund
and invests in commodities rather than equities, he said.  Verhofen said he has reduced his bets on grains and base
metals, making more room for energy and precious metals.  “As a new harvest enters the market in summer and fall, we
expect prices to fall,” Verhofen said, without specifying which
grains will drop. “We expect industrial metals to underperform.
In a positive macroeconomic environment, demand for metals
usually grows at a smaller rate than that for energy.”  ‘Optimistic’ Outlook  Crude for May delivery traded at $105.49 a barrel in  New
York  and gold was at $1,434.40 an ounce at 2:25 p.m. in
 Singapore  today.  Easier monetary policies in the U.S. and Europe should help
boost global consumption and put their economies on a firmer
footing, shoring up demand for commodities, Verhofen said. He
didn’t expect a “significant, permanent” impact on commodity
markets from Japan’s worst earthquake and tsunami on March 11.  “Historically, commodities have performed well before and
up to nine months after the first interest rate increase of the
 Federal Reserve ,” Verhofen said. “We remain optimistic.”  There’s a 32 percent chance the Fed will raise interest
rates by December, futures contracts on the Chicago Board of
Trade showed on March 23. The benchmark rate has been at a range
of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Verhofen has worked as a  fund manager  for Allianz Global
Investors since March 2007. Prior to that, he was a researcher
at the  University of California  at Berkeley and at the
University of  St. Gallen  in Switzerland.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ; 