-- 
American Scraps 188 Miami Flights Today After Fuel Farm Fire

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 
2011-03-25T20:53:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/american-air-scraps-hundreds-of-miami-flights-on-fuel-shortage-after-fire.html
AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines 
scrubbed 188 Miami flights today, almost a third of its daily
schedule there, after a fire destroyed the main pumping system
at the airport’s fuel farm.  The March 23 blaze at Miami International Airport forced
American to use 10 tanker trucks to haul fuel to the tarmac, so
refueling now takes as long as five hours on wide-body planes
such as  Boeing Co. (BA)  777s, said  Andrea Huguely , an airline
spokeswoman. The process usually takes 45 minutes, she said.  “We can’t utilize the underground system that would
normally pump fuel into the planes,” Huguely said. Relying on
the tankers is “like trying to fill up an aircraft with an
eyedropper.”  Today’s cancellations added to 190 flights scrapped
yesterday, and more delays and dropped flights are likely into
next week, Huguely said in a telephone interview.  Fort Worth ,
Texas-based American accounts for three-fourths of the airport’s
traffic and has about 600 flights a day there.  Replacing the previous system of 14 pumps will take at
least two months, an airport spokesman, Greg Chin, said by
telephone.  Miami International has been using temporary pumps that
aren’t as fast as the original system, and will install high-
performance units by next week with output similar to the peak
flow of the destroyed system, Chin said.  Six Tanks  The airport has a three-day supply of fuel stored in six
tanks holding 1 million gallons (3.79 million liters) each, and
contracts its fuel services from New York-based Allied Aviation
Services Inc., Chin said.  American is refueling planes at other airports when
possible, and some flights are making stops at Orlando or  Fort
Lauderdale  to take on fuel, Huguely said.  Passengers flying to, from or through Miami are being
allowed to rebook flights without penalty, American said in a
statement.  AMR fell 1 cent to $6.50 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have tumbled 17 percent
this year.  Miami is the 12th-busiest airport in the U.S., with almost
36 million travelers last year, according to  Airports Council
International . American uses Miami as a gateway for its 29 daily
flights to Mexico and the rest of Latin America, Huguely said.  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , the second-biggest carrier at Miami
International, hasn’t had to cancel any flights because it is
fueling planes at its hometown hub in Atlanta, said Anthony
Black, a spokesman.  Atlanta was the top U.S. destination from Miami in 2010,
with about 11 percent of passengers, according to the federal
Bureau of Transportation Statistics, followed by Chicago’s
O’Hare airport,  New York ’s LaGuardia and Dallas-Fort Worth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  