-- 
Tan Chong May Defer Japan Electric Car Imports After Quake

-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 
2011-03-25T08:49:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/tan-chong-may-defer-japan-electric-car-imports-after-quake-1-.html
Tan Chong Motor Holdings Bhd. (TCM) , a
Malaysian car assembler and distributor, said it may put off
plans to start importing Nissan Motor Co. electric cars this
year after Japan’s earthquake and tsunami caused damage to the
Japanese automaker’s plants.  “Because of the tsunami and earthquake, it may be delayed
for another one or two years,” Ang Bon Beng, executive director
of Edaran Tan Chong Motor Sdn., the Malaysian company’s
distribution arm, told reporters in Selangor today.  Production of Nissan’s Leaf electric car and lithium-ion
batteries have resumed in Oppama, but the ability to sustain
production will depend on rolling blackouts due to electricity
shortages, the company said yesterday. Nissan, Toyota Motor
Corp., and Honda Motor Co. are working to restart domestic
output following the magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami on March
11 that killed more than 9,800 people and damaged factories.  Vehicle assemblers and distributors are waiting to assess
the fallout from  Japan ’s disaster on supplies, Aishah Ahmad,
president of the Malaysian Automotive Association told reporters
in Selangor today. The Southeast Asian nation appears to have no
shortage of demand for vehicles.  “The economy is showing a good growth,” Aishah said.
“The confidence level is high,  interest rates  are very
competitive and there are new models coming into  Malaysia . There
is also a backlog of new orders.”  The association is maintaining its sales forecast of
618,000 units this year for the time-being. This figure may be
reviewed in June or July as circumstances develop, Aishah said.  “Most of our members have also been sourcing from other
parts of the world, not only from Japan,” she said. “We will
only know later when the true assessment of how badly the impact
has affected the respective brands.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  