-- 
Mandarin, Regal Hotels Pack Hong Kong Rooms as Rugby Sevens Lures Fans

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-03-25T20:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/mandarin-regal-hotels-pack-hong-kong-rooms-as-rugby-sevens-lures-fans.html
Mandarin Oriental International
Ltd., Regal Hotels International Holdings Ltd. and other hotels
are “simply full” as visitors arrive in  Hong Kong  for the
annual rugby sevens tournament.  The  Hong Kong Sevens  competition pits 24 teams, including
 New Zealand ,  England  and  South Africa , against each other over
three days, with the final to be held tomorrow. Tickets for the
event sponsored by Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. and Credit Suisse
Group AG were sold out in January.  The 35-year-old tournament is Hong Kong’s biggest annual
sports event, drawing supporters from around the world for a
weekend of partying in the former British colony. The event is
expected to attract 38,000 spectators on each day, according to
the Leisure and Cultural Services Department of Hong Kong.  “The majority of the hotels on the  Hong Kong Island  are
running at more than 90 percent occupancy or simply full,” said
Michael Li, spokesman at the  Federation of Hong Kong Hotel
Owners  with members including the Island Shangri-La and JW
Marriott Hotel. “We are stressed.”  Before the Hong Kong event, England and New Zealand jointly
led the IRB World Sevens Series with 80 points.  The favorites are England and New Zealand with South Africa
the “dark horses,” said Lawrence Dallaglio, who was part of
the English team that won the 2003 Rugby  World Cup .  The price for a three-day adult ticket is HK$1,250 ($160).  200,000 Pints  Spectators consumed 200,000 pints of beer, 60,000 glasses
of Pimms and 10,000 glasses of wine in 2010, and a similar level
of consumption is expected this year, the government said.  The Excelsior Hotel, within 15 minutes walking distance
from the stadium, expects a full house and high room rates this
weekend, spokeswoman Wendy Lee said. Mandarin’s hotels are
running at “high occupancy” for the event, spokeswoman Sally De Souza said.  “Our hotels in downtown are almost fully booked for the
coming weekend during the Rugby Sevens tournament due to the
popular location and high market demand during the traditional
peak season and trade fair period,” said Dora Liu, the vice
president for sales for Regal Hotels.  In 2010, the contest fueled a 15 percent gain in March
visitor arrivals from the U.S., Australia and  Europe  from the
previous year, according to the  Hong Kong Tourism Board .  Average hotel room rates in Hong Kong rose 14 percent to
HK$1,165 last year from 2009, the city’s tourism board said.  Occupancy rates are also high as companies relocate staff
from  Japan  as the nation seeks to contain radiation leaks from a
crippled nuclear plant 135 miles north of  Tokyo , said Li from
the hotel federation.  Workers at Blackstone Group LP and BNP Paribas SA were
leaving Japan last week as concerns mounted over the nuclear
power plant in Fukushima.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at   kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  