-- 
Apple Wins U.S. Trade Ruling in Patent Fight Brought by Nokia Over Phones

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-03-25T19:51:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/apple-wins-u-s-trade-ruling-in-patent-fight-brought-by-nokia-over-phones.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won a U.S. trade ruling
in a patent fight brought by  Nokia Oyj (NOK)  over technology used in
mobile telephones.  A judge with the U.S. International Trade Commission in
Washington today said Apple isn’t violating Nokia’s rights on
five patents. The  findings  of ITC Judge E. James Gildea are
subject to review by the six-member commission, which has the
power to block imports of products found to infringe U.S.
patents.  The two mobile-phone makers have been embroiled in
litigation since October 2009, when Nokia filed a lawsuit
accusing Apple of infringing 10 patents and demanding royalties
on the millions of iPhones sold since the device’s introduction
in 2007. Each company has since accused the other of infringing
an increasing number of patents.  “While we don’t agree that there has been no violation,
we’ll wait to see the details of the ruling before we decide on
any next steps,” said Laurie Armstrong, a spokeswoman for
Espoo, Finland-based Nokia.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, said the
Cupertino, California-based company had no comment. The judge’s
reasons will be released to the public after both sides have a
chance to redact confidential business information.  Nokia had claimed Apple was infringing patents that the
Finnish company described as “pioneering innovations” related
to cameras, battery life, touch-screens, speakers and messaging.
It sought an order barring imports of the iPhone.  Apple has its own patent-infringement claims against Nokia
at the  Washington  agency. A different ITC judge, Charles Bullock, is scheduled to release his findings in that case on
June 24.  The Nokia case is In the Matter of Certain Electronic
Devices, Including  Mobile Phones , Portable Music Players and
Computers, 337-701, and Apple’s case is In the Matter of Mobile
Communications and Computer Devices, 2707, U.S. International
Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  