-- 
Apple Begins Global Sales of New IPad 2 Tablet as Competition Intensifies

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r   a n d   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 
2011-03-25T14:46:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/apple-begins-global-sales-of-new-ipad-2-tablet-as-competition-increases.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  began selling its iPad 2
to queues of consumers in  Australia  and New Zealand today, as
part of a release in 25 countries including the U.K.,  France ,
Switzerland and  Germany , as the company tries to defend its
dominance in tablet computers amid mounting competition.  “Ninety percent of the reason I came is for the
experience, 10 percent for the product,” said Alex Lee, 27,
lining up in Sydney, sitting on a folding chair next to a yellow
suitcase that doubles as a coffee table. “I’m also getting one
for charity,” to auction online and raise money for earthquake
victims, he said. Lee came to the store straight from the
airport while on a backpack tour across  Asia .  Lines of hundreds of consumers in the streets of Sydney and
Wellington marked the release of the device in more nations
today as Apple defends its market share against rival products
from companies including BlackBerry maker  Research In Motion
Ltd. (RIMM)  and Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. The proportion of
Apple’s sales outside of the Americas rose to 62 percent in the
last fiscal year, the highest in at least seven years amid the
growing popularity of iPhones in  China  and Asia.  Rudolf Jacobi, 58, from Gelnhausen east of Frankfurt, is
among 10 people at the head of a queue that snakes around the
block in Frankfurt, waiting for the iPad 2 to go on sale at 5
p.m. local time. “I’ve been waiting since 6 a.m.,” Jacobi
said. He had planned a vacation for next week and booked an
extra day when he found out the device would be released today.  Jacobi is a personal driver for managers in the  Frankfurt 
area and spends about 1,000 euros a year on Apple products. On
one of the warmest and sunniest days of the year so far, Jacobi
said the Apple store provided umbrellas, water and free coffee.  Japan  Earthquake  Apple rose 1.5 percent to $350.27 at 10:38 a.m. in  New York 
trading.  The iPad 2 will be available in  Hong Kong ,  Singapore  and
additional countries in April. It was released in the U.S. on
March 11, when hundreds of people queued at Apple’s Fifth Avenue
store in New York.  The maker of iMac computers, iPhones and iPod music players
delayed the introduction of its new tablet computer in Japan
following the earthquakes. The company hasn’t set a new release
date,  Natalie Kerris , a spokeswoman, said March 15.  Apple may have sold as many as 500,000 units of the iPad 2,
over the March 11 weekend of its debut, analysts estimated. The
Cupertino, California-based company, which has sold more than 15
million iPads in the past year, has said more than 65 percent of
Fortune 100 companies are testing or deploying the iPad,
including  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)   Supply Shortages  Apple may face logistical problems and supply shortages for
components after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami in Japan,
IHS ISuppli said last week. The iPad 2 has five parts made in
Japan -- NAND flash from Toshiba Corp., dynamic random access
memory from Elpida Memory Inc., an electronic compass from AKM
Semiconductor, the touch-screen overlay glass likely from Asahi
Glass Co. and the system battery from Apple Japan Inc., ISuppli
said.  The iPad line is the fastest-selling technology product in
history, measured by revenue, according to Creative Strategies
Inc.  Overall, there are 102 tablets from 64 makers either on
sale or in development, according to consulting firm PRTM.  BlackBerry PlayBook  A BlackBerry PlayBook with 16 gigabytes of memory will cost
$499, a 32-gigabyte model will retail for $599 and a version
with 64 gigabytes will cost $699, RIM and Best Buy said March 22
in a statement.  On March 2, Apple Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  took
the stage at a company event in San Francisco to introduce the
iPad 2, making his first public appearance since taking medical
leave in January. The device, a follow-up to a tablet released
last April, has a faster chip, and front and rear cameras, Jobs
said. It’s also 33 percent thinner than its predecessor.  The new model ranges in price from $499 for a base model to
$829 for the top-of-the-line version.  In less than a year, the iPad has become one of Apple’s top
sellers, surpassing the almost decade-old iPod media player. The
new model faces upstart tablets from Motorola Mobility, Samsung
Electronics Co. and RIM.  Motorola said last month that sales of the Xoom, available
through Verizon Wireless, had started “relatively well” and it
plans to introduce tablets with other carriers this year. The
Xoom has drawn accolades from reviewers -- including Bloomberg’s
 Rich Jaroslovsky , who said it’s a “worthwhile competitor” to
the iPad.  Revenue Estimate  The iPad 2 will account for at least 20 million tablet
computer sales in the U.S. this year, or 83 percent of the
market, said Sarah Rotman Epps, an analyst at Forrester Research
Inc. in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . This fiscal year, the iPad may
bring in as much as $16.3 billion in revenue for Apple,
according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  The iPhone, now Apple’s top-selling product, didn’t cross
that threshold until last year, more than three years after its
introduction.  “The reason I’m standing here is because it’s my birthday
in a couple of days’ time,” said Lincoln Gould, chief executive
officer of Booksellers  New Zealand , while waiting in a line in
capital Wellington. “I bought an iPad for my wife for
Christmas. She can have that now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 