-- 
April Makes Cooling Predictions Difficult, Forecasters Say

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-03-25T12:45:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/april-storms-make-cooling-predictions-difficult-forecaster-says.html
A series of storms stretching into
April is making it harder for computer forecasting models to
determine how cold the U.S. East will be,  Matt Rogers , president
of  Commodity Weather Group LLC , said in a note to clients today.  “A big problem later next week and into the 11-15 day is a
near-constant model variation on storm tracks and associated
impacts,” Rogers said. “The result is very tricky and very low
confidence forecasting as we move deeper into April.”  CWG’s forecast from March 30 to April 3 expects that an
area of below-normal temperatures will develop in the Northeast
and the Ohio Valley and back into Illinois and Missouri. The
U.S.  Climate Prediction Center’s  forecast for the same time
frame calls for widespread cold across the entire eastern U.S.
with the greatest probability in the Northeast.  MDA EarthSat Weather’s March 30 to April 3 forecast also
calls for cooling in the Northeast and into the Ohio Valley and
also as far south as  Tennessee  and North Carolina.  In the longer-range forecast, there is greater divergence
between the commercial forecasters and the government’s climate
center. MDA isolates the greatest potential for cooler-than-
normal weather over southern Canada and the Dakotas and
Minnesota, with the area of possibility stretching from Montana
to Michigan and as far south as Iowa and Nebraska.  Confidence ‘Low’  “Confidence is still low given the risk of a more variable
pattern,”  MDA’s forecast  said.  Rogers forecasts the chance for cooler-than-normal weather
across the top of the northern U.S., dipping into the Ohio
Valley. The Northeast is the exception and forecast to have
near-normal temperatures.  In the same time period, the climate center still predicts
the eastern U.S., with exception of southern  Florida , has a
probability of lower-than-normal temperatures.  All three forecasts call for the Southwest to be warmer
than normal. However, the climate center says  Arizona  will
probably have the highest temperatures, while CWG places the
emphasis on  New Mexico  and western Texas.  MDA’s forecast shows warming centered in the Southwest,
with the possibility of above-average temperatures from
 California  to Louisiana.  In  New York , the normal average temperature for early April
is about 47 degrees Fahrenheit (8 Celsius); in Boston it’s 44;
Philadelphia, 48; Atlanta, 56; St. Louis, 57; and in Houston
it’s 66, according to MDA in Gaithersburg, Maryland.  Natural gas traders monitor weather forecasts to determine
whether temperatures may boost heating or cooling demand.
Predictions of below-normal or above-normal temperatures may
prompt traders to buy or sell gas futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  