-- 
Stocks in U.S. Rise on Earnings; Portuguese Bonds Fall, Aussie Strengthens

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 
2011-03-25T20:20:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/asian-stocks-rise-won-strengthens-as-recovery-may-withstand-europe-crisis.html
U.S. stocks gained, extending a
weekly rally, as  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s profit forecast topped analysts’
estimates and economic growth was revised higher.  Portugal  bonds
fell after S&P downgraded the debt, while  Australia ’s currency
touched a record versus the dollar as commodities rose.  The  S&P 500  climbed 0.3 percent to 1,313.8 at 4 p.m. in New
York. The MSCI All-Country World Index of stocks in 45 nations
rose for a seventh day, its longest streak November. Portugal’s
10-year bond yield jumped to a euro-era record. Australia’s
dollar strengthened as much as 0.8 percent to $1.0294, while the
euro weakened against 11 of 16 major peers. Ten-year Treasury
yields climbed 3 basis points to 3.44 percent.  The S&P 500 has rebounded 4.5 percent from its 2011 low
last week as concern eased that the global economy would be hurt
by Japan’s worst earthquake on record and uprisings in the
Middle East and northern  Africa . The benchmark measure of U.S.
stock options had its biggest seven-day drop 2008 as demand for
protection against further declines subsided.  “Despite the global macro uncertainties, company
fundamentals are leading investors to bid the market higher,”
said Eric Teal, chief investment officer at First Citizens
Bancshares Inc. in Raleigh,  North Carolina , which manages $5.2
billion. Oracle’s forecast “is a good signal for the technology
sector, and so we think there will be ongoing strength in
earnings for those companies.”  S&P 500, VIX  The S&P 500 advanced for the third day and extended its
weekly gain to 2.7 percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index, also known as the VIX, has tumbled 39 percent
since March 16.  Stock also gained today after the Commerce Department said
the economy grew 3.1 percent in the fourth quarter. The revised
increase in gross domestic product compares with a 2.8 percent
estimate issued last month, the figures showed.  Stocks maintained gains after the Thomson Reuters/
University of Michigan final index of consumer sentiment
decreased to 67.5 from 77.5 in February. The preliminary
estimate issued earlier this month was 68.2. The median forecast
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a reading of 68.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced 0.8 percent and the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 0.8 percent. The Stoxx
Europe 600 Index rose 0.1 percent and gained 3.1 percent since
March 18, its biggest weekly rally in six months.  Oracle Rallies  Oracle, the world’s biggest supplier of  database software ,
rallied 1.6 percent after saying earnings will increase amid a
boom in demand.  Accenture Plc (ACN) , the second-largest technology-
consulting company, jumped 4.5 percent after predicting better-
than-estimated sales. SAP AG, the world’s largest maker of
business-management software, advanced 1.9 percent. Infosys
Technologies Ltd.,  India ’s second-largest software-services
provider, climbed 5.3 percent, the most since July 2009.  Ten-year Portuguese bond yields surged as much as 14 basis
points to 7.80 percent after S&P joined  Fitch Ratings  in cutting
the nation’s creditworthiness as European Union leaders met to
discuss ways to resolve the region’s debt crisis.  Portugal’s two-year yields rose 37 basis points to 7.07
percent and jumped 73 basis points this week, while the extra
yield investors demand to hold the 10-year debt versus benchmark
German bunds rose 9 basis points today to 451 basis points.  Default Swaps  The cost to protect U.S. corporate bonds from default was
little changed as economic growth outweighed the downgrade of
Portugal’s debt. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index, which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate
debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose half a basis
point to a mid-price of 95.04 basis points, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Default swaps on Tokyo Electric Power Co. increased 82
basis points to 352 after  Japan ’s nuclear regulator said one
reactor core at the quake-damaged Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant
may be cracked and leaking radiation.  Australia’s dollar rallied against 14 of 16 major peers,
gaining at least 1.3 percent versus the Norwegian, Swedish and
Swiss currencies. Natural gas, cattle, hogs and sugar climbed at
least 1.5 percent to lead gains in commodities in the Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB index, which rose for an eight straight
day in its longest rally since November.  New Zealand ’s dollar climbed 0.5 percent versus the U.S.
currency after central bank Governor Alan Bollard said the
nation’s economy will get a boost from earthquake reconstruction
next year.  The franc depreciated 0.6 percent against the euro, and 1.3
percent versus the dollar. The Swiss central bank said that
while borrowing costs can’t remain near zero over the coming
years, the inflation outlook hasn’t changed “significantly”
since the previous quarterly assessment in December.  Oil edged lower in  New York  as crude failed to breach
technical resistance at its 30-month high. Crude for May
delivery fell 20 cents to settle at $105.40 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . Prices have risen 3.5 percent since
March 18, the first weekly advance in three. Oil is up 31
percent in the past year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
 Lu Wang  in New York at   lwang8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 