-- 
Asian Stocks Rise for Biggest Weekly Gain Since November on Quake Optimism

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-03-25T21:39:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/asian-stocks-rise-for-biggest-weekly-gain-since-november-on-quake-optimism.html
Asian stocks rose this week,
leading a regional benchmark index to its biggest gain since
November, as  Japan  made progress stabilizing reactors at a
nuclear plant crippled after the nation’s worst earthquake.  Komatsu Ltd., Japan’s largest maker of construction
machinery, advanced 9.1 percent in  Tokyo  on the outlook for
rebuilding work.  Extract Resources Ltd. (EXT) , a uranium producer,
jumped 20 percent in Sydney after Japan’s Prime Minister Naoto Kan said there was “light at the end of the tunnel” for the
nuclear crisis. Cnooc Ltd.,  China ’s biggest offshore oil
producer, gained 10 percent in  Hong Kong  as annual profit surged.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 4.06 percent to 134.27
this week, the most since the week ended Nov. 5. The gauge last
week recorded its biggest drop since the height of the European
debt crisis in May, as Japan fought to avert a nuclear disaster
and tensions escalated in Libya. Allied forces this week
expanded air strikes on Libya in an effort to thwart Muammar Qaddafi’s fighters and enable rebels to control cities.  “The feared nuclear meltdown in Japan hasn’t happened and
looks less and less like it will,” said  Shane Oliver , head of
investment strategy in Sydney at AMP Capital Investors Ltd.,
which manages $98 billion. “Investors are feeling less negative
and so shares are having a bounce. It could prove temporary,
though, if Middle-East tensions lead to a further spike in the
oil price.”  Indexes Advance  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average gained 3.6 percent in a
holiday-shortened week, having plunged 10 percent last week on
concern the earthquake, tsunami and damaged reactors will hurt a
recovery in the world’s third-largest economy. South Korea’s
Kospi Index climbed 3.7 percent this week, while Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 2.5 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index
advanced 3.9 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has lost about 2.5 percent this
year. Stocks in the Asian benchmark trade at about 13.5 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 14.8 times at the
end of last year.  Komatsu advanced 9.1 percent to 2,795 yen this week in
Tokyo. Taiheiyo Cement Corp., Japan’s biggest cement maker,
surged 15 percent to 157 yen. Comsys Holdings Corp., which
designs and constructs phone and power facilities, jumped 22
percent to 827 yen. Fanuc Corp., an industrial-robot
manufacturer, climbed 6 percent to 12,180 yen.  Explosions, Fires, Leaks  The Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant was damaged following
a magnitude-9.0 earthquake and a tsunami on March 11. Repair
work at the site of the worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl
in 1986 has been plagued by explosions, fires and leaks of toxic
material.  “The nuclear issue has calmed,” said  Fumiyuki Nakanishi ,
a strategist at Tokyo-based SMBC Friend Securities Co. “People
focused on low valuations will probably buy stocks.”  Extract Resources jumped 20 percent to A$8.43 in Sydney.
 Paladin Energy Ltd. (PDN)  gained 6.9 percent to A$3.85.  Cnooc gained 10 percent to HK$18.98 in Hong Kong as crude
oil in  New York  traded near a two-year high during the week.
Separately, China’s biggest offshore oil producer plans to start
new fields at home and add assets abroad after its fastest
output growth boosted annual profit by 85 percent.  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  rose 5.2 percent to A$46.72 in
Sydney amid speculation Australia’s second-largest oil and gas
producer may arrange an assets-for-shares swap with its biggest
stockholder, Royal Dutch Shell Plc.  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. climbed 4.7 percent to HK$18.40
in Hong Kong on optimism international travel prospects will
improve as recovery from Japan’s disaster progresses.  Qantas
Airways Ltd. (QAN) , Australia’s biggest airline, gained 3.4 percent to
A$2.16 in Sydney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 