-- 
Atlantis Owner Said Facing Possible Default on Loan Held by Private Equity

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-03-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/atlantis-owner-said-facing-possible-default-on-loan-held-by-private-equity.html
Kerzner International Holdings
Ltd., the company that built Atlantis resorts in the  Bahamas  and
Dubai, faces a loan covenant test that may trigger a default as
soon as next month, people with knowledge of the matter said.  The company, which also runs seven  One&Only resorts , may
fail the test on an estimated $450 million loan, said the
people, who sought anonymity because the situation is private.
Centerbridge Capital Partners LP and TPG Capital are among the
largest holders of the debt, which is backed in part by
management contracts and equity in some properties, they said.  A default on so-called operating company debt may lead to
the refinancing of Kerzner’s $3 billion total debt, asset sales
or ownership changes, according to the people. The company,
whose owners include  Dubai World ’s Istithmar,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ’s Whitehall Funds, Colony Capital LLC and founder Sol Kerzner, has struggled with debt since the 2008 financial crisis
sank hotel values and reduced room rates.  “Kerzner is one of the last big commercial real estate
restructurings of the last cycle,” said J. Soren Reynertson,
New York-based managing general partner of GLC Advisors & Co., a
restructuring specialist. “It is sure to garner attention not
only because of its size but also because of the high profile of
some of its assets.”  About $2.5 billion of separate property company debt due in
September requires Kerzner, based in the Bahamas, to obtain an
unqualified opinion from auditors on its 2010 financial
statements, the people said. Another default may be triggered if
that is withheld on concerns about the company’s ability to
service or refinance its debt, said the people.  2006 Buyout  Kerzner, famous for Atlantis’s Mayan-themed water slides
and up-close encounters with dolphins, sharks and rays, was
taken private in 2006 for $3.6 billion by a group led by its
namesake founder. The company has hired Blackstone Group LP and
lawyers Kirkland & Ellis LLP as advisers.  The advisers have contacted  hedge funds  and  private-equity 
firms including Paulson & Co. about investing new equity, one
person said. No agreements have been reached, the person said.  Holders of Kerzner’s operating company debt, including
Centerbridge, TPG, Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank and  Fidelity
Investments , are represented by investment bank Houlihan Lokey,
according to the people.  Representatives of TPG Capital, based in  Fort Worth ,  Texas ,
declined to comment, as did Houlihan Lokey and Paulson. New
York-based Centerbridge, Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank, Dubai World
and Fidelity didn’t respond to requests for comment.
Representatives for Kerzner, Goldman Sachs and Colony Capital,
along with company advisers Blackstone and Kirkland, also
wouldn’t comment.  Sol Kerzner, 75, is known for building what his company
 website  calls the “mythical city of Atlantis” resort on
Paradise Island property he bought from Merv Griffin, the former
talk show host and game show creator.  Dolphin Habitat  The resort is surrounded by an artificial open-air marine
habitat featuring 50,000 sea creatures and a marina to “attract
the sleek international mega-yacht set,” according to the site.
A $1 billion expansion begun in 2007 added hotels, a new dolphin
habitat and expanded the Aquaventure water park.  In September 2008, as the financial crisis deepened,
Kerzner opened the second Atlantis in the  Persian Gulf  on the
outer frond of Palm Jumeirah, Dubai’s man-made palm tree-shaped
island.  Kerzner faces other challenges. A 2.5 percent royalty fee
the company collects on revenue from the Mohegan Sun casino in
 Connecticut  it once managed expires at the end of 2014. The same
year, the Bahamas Atlantis will face a new rival six miles away
when the $3.4 billion Baha Mar casino resort opens.  Sarkis Izmirlian, whose family built More London in the
U.K., is developing the property, where work began last month.
Baha Mar is financed by the Export-Import Bank of  China  and is
being built by China State Construction & Engineering.  In October, BMB Group, a firm representing Malaysian
investors, offered to pay $3.4 billion to $4 billion for
Kerzner, according to BMB founder Rayo Withanage. The offer
letter was received and Kerzner wasn’t for sale, the company
said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  