-- 
Mauritian Central Bank is Expected to Increase Its Benchmark Interest Rate

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-03-25T06:43:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/mauritian-central-bank-is-expected-to-increase-its-benchmark-interest-rate.html
Mauritius’s central bank will
probably increase its benchmark interest rate from 4.75 percent
on March 28 after inflation accelerated more than expected.  “It’s a done deal that the rate will increase,” Eric Ng,
an economist and director of the Port Louis-based advisory firm
PluriConseil, said yesterday in a phone interview from Port
Louis, the capital. “The debate is now by how much will it
rise, ensuring at the same time that growth does not take a
blow. An increase by 25 basis points might not be enough to
control inflation.”  Annual inflation climbed for a fifth consecutive month to a
more than two-year high of 6.8 percent in February, according to
the Indian Ocean island nation’s statistics agency. Gasoline
prices jumped twice in three months after international  oil
prices  increased. The rise in prices exceeded Bank of Mauritius
Governor Rundheersing Bheenick’s forecasts.  “Our concern is to fight inflation increases,” Bheenick
said on March 23. “I hope that the monetary policy committee
takes appropriate decisions.”  A survey of 30 analysts, published in the Port Louis-based
l’Express newspaper on March 16, showed that 12 expect an
increase in the benchmark rate of 25 basis points to 5 percent,
with 10 forecasting a 50 basis-point rise. The remainder said
the rate will stay at 4.75 percent.  “There is lack of visibility as to whether we are facing
inflation or a growth problem, or both,” said Afsar Ebrahim, a
partner at Port Louis-based auditing company BDO & Co Ltd. “The
cautious approach will be to leave the rate as is because there
are too many businesses already in a precarious state.”  The repo rate is at its lowest since December 2006,
according to data on the central bank’s website. It was cut by
one percentage point in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in  Port Louis  at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  