-- 
Automakers May Lose 600,000 Vehicles as Quake Hits Parts

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-03-26T04:44:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/automakers-lose-230-000-vehicles-of-production-from-japan-quake.html
Global automakers may lose
production of 600,000 vehicles by the end of the month as the
earthquake in  Japan  halts assembly lines and work at suppliers
including the maker of a paint pigment.  About 320,000 vehicles may have been lost worldwide as of
March 24, and manufacturing at plants in  North America  may be
affected when parts supplies start running out as soon as early
April, said  Michael Robinet , vice president of Lexington,
Massachusetts-based IHS Automotive.  “The next surge of shutdowns comes when the pipeline of
parts that were already built dries up,” Robinet said yesterday
in a telephone interview. “The rate of lost production will
accelerate once North American plants join in.”  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s largest automaker, said it
has lost output of 140,000 vehicles, and Honda Motor Co. has
lost 46,600 cars and trucks and 5,000 motorcycles.  Mitsubishi
Motors Corp. (7211) ’s was lowered by 15,000.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  hasn’t lost
any output, said Todd Nissen, a spokesman.  Honda, Japan’s third-largest automaker, said its production
in North America may be disrupted after April 1 because quake
damage is restricting parts supplies, Natsuno Asanuma, a
spokeswoman for the company, said today by phone. Plants in Ohio,
Alabama, Indiana,  Canada  and  Mexico  may be affected, she said.  Mazda Plants  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) , which had said its production was
reduced by 31,000 cars, yesterday suspended U.S. dealer orders
for vehicles built at its two Japanese car factories because of
supply disruptions caused by this month’s earthquake and tsunami.  Mazda plants in Hiroshima and Hofu have stopped production
of new models, said Tim Gilman, a spokesman. Mazda makes the
Mazda2, Mazda3, RX-8, MX-5, CX-7 and CX-9 in Japan, he said.
While neither plant was damaged, access to parts and supplies
has been crimped in the aftermath of the disaster, he said  Nissan Motor Co.,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and other companies
haven’t provided details on their possible losses.  Merck KGaA (MRK)  has lost production of a metallic automotive
paint pigment called Xirallic because its factory is 28 miles
from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant that was damaged by the
earthquake and tsunami, Gangolf Schrimpf, a spokesman for the
Darmstadt, Germany-based company, said in a telephone interview.  Merck doesn’t know when company engineers will be able re-
enter the Onahama factory, and it will take four to eight weeks
to resume output after they gain access, he said.  ‘At a Dead-End’  “It’s not our fault, and we can’t get back in,” Schrimpf
said. “It’s bad for us and bad for our customers. It’s sort of
at a dead-end currently.”  The company isn’t affiliated with Merck & Co., the
drugmaker based in  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey.  Chrysler is restricting dealers’ orders on 10 vehicle
colors because of the potential for a shortage, Katie Hepler, a
spokeswoman, said yesterday in an e-mail. The colors include
blacks, such as Blackberry Pearl, and reds, such as Inferno, she
said.  “We currently have an adequate days’ supply to meet
existing customer orders and are taking this step as a
precautionary measure,” Hepler said.  No Black, No Red  Ford told dealers March 24 to stop taking orders for
vehicles painted in tuxedo black and three red shades.  Silver was the most popular automobile color last year,
Pittsburgh-based  PPG Industries Inc. (PPG) , the largest supplier of
paint for North American auto production, said in October.
Silver, gray and charcoal accounted for 31 percent of vehicle-
paint choices in North America, up from 20 percent in 2008.
Black and white tied for second, with 18 percent each. Red was
next at 11 percent, said PPG, which makes auto paint.  “We could certainly see some slowdown in sales,” said
 Rebecca Lindland , an analyst for IHS Automotive. “Black and red
cars are pretty darn popular.”  DuPont Co., the second-largest auto-paint supplier in North
America, is monitoring the situation and the potential impact to
its customers, Gregg Schmidt, a spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement. The Wilmington, Delaware-based company does use
Xirallic, Schmidt said.  Mike Millar, a spokesman for PPG, declined to comment.  GM Idles Plants  GM idled two compact-car plants in  Europe  and a pickup
factory in Shreveport, Louisiana, amid parts shortages. GM sent
electronics parts from Shreveport to a factory in Kansas City,
Kansas, where the more-profitable Chevrolet Malibu and Buick
LaCrosse sedans are made, said two people familiar with the
matter.  Production in Shreveport will resume on March 28, Sherrie Childers Arb, a GM spokeswoman, said yesterday in an interview.  GM executives sent out a memo on March 18 asking employees
to limit travel and expenses to essential business. The move was
a precaution, she said.  U.S. automakers’ plants may experience sporadic shutdowns
because they get so many parts from Japan, said Brian Johnson,
an analyst with  Barclays Capital  in  Chicago . While lost
production would hurt earnings, lower inventory among the
Japanese automakers may allow GM, Ford and Chrysler Group LLC to
gain market share or reduce price discounts, he said.  Earnings Estimates  Johnson hasn’t adjusted his earnings estimates for Ford or
GM and maintains projections that GM’s shares may rise to $44
and Ford’s may gain to $22 by December. The targets haven’t been
changed because they are based on 2012 earnings, which shouldn’t
be affected by the crisis in Japan, he said.  Automakers who buy certain parts from one manufacturer may
start to look to diversify their supply bases with different
companies or with plants in multiple regions, Johnson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Welch in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 dwelch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  