-- 
Bahrain Use of Force May Hit Economy as Shiites Opposed to Ruler Protest

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-03-25T17:46:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/bahrain-choosing-violence-may-hurt-economy-as-shiite-rage-turns-on-monarch.html
“Death, death to  Al Khalifa !”
Shiite Muslim mourners chanted as they followed the coffin of
Bahia al-Aradi through Manama’s narrow streets. “Down, down
with Hamad!”  Rage at Bahrain’s Sunni ruler, King Hamad Bin Isa Al
Khalifa, permeated the March 22 funeral of the first woman
killed after his crackdown against the opposition a week
earlier. The slogans show how protesters have been radicalized
by the violence against them: When Shiites started rallying in
February they were asking King Hamad for rights, jobs and
Cabinet changes, not demanding his overthrow.  The Al Khalifa family’s decision to quell the protests,
arrest their leaders and invite a Saudi-led force to help
restore order may backfire on the island nation’s economy.
Lacking the oil wealth of its Gulf Cooperation Council
neighbors, the Al Khalifas have promoted their country as a
corporate hub -- “Business-Friendly  Bahrain ” -- an image under
threat after mass protests around the financial district and the
prospect of more violence.  “The crackdown and the use of GCC forces are both very
polarizing,” Jane Kinninmont, a senior research fellow on the
Middle East and  Africa  at London-based  Chatham House , said in an
e-mail. “It will take the country years to recover from this.”  Activists defied the state of emergency and held
demonstrations in Manama and villages around the country today
to protest government violence, eliciting more attacks and
arrests, the Bahrain Youth Society for Human Rights said.  Tear Gas, Gunfire  Mohammed al-Maskati, president of the society, said
warplanes flew low over the Shiite villages and security forces
used tear gas to disperse protesters and in at least two
villages, Karzakan and Dumistan, fired live ammunition. He said
one man in his 70s died as a result of inhaling tear gas, while
many people wounded in the clashes were unable to reach medical
facilities because of checkpoints set up by the police.  There was no one immediately available from the Interior
Ministry late today to comment on the unrest, according to the
ministry’s media office.  Instead of “stabilizing what is a highly charged political
situation,” the government’s actions may have entrenched
sectarian divisions, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said
March 18, explaining why it cut Bahrain’s credit rating by two
levels. S&P forecast “damage to Bahrain as a tourist
destination and, more importantly, as an offshore financial
center in relation to other competing cities in the Gulf.”  Yields on Bahrain’s benchmark 10-year dollar bond have
jumped more than 1 percentage point this year, to about 6.3
percent, and the cost of insuring its debt through credit
default swaps has almost doubled.  ‘Hatred, Rancor, Bigotry’  Bahrain, where Shiites make up about 70 percent of the
population of less than 1 million, is home to the U.S. Fifth
Fleet. It was the first Persian Gulf monarchy to be hit by the
wave of unrest that toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt  this
year. The Shiite-led opposition is calling for parliamentary
government and an end to discrimination over jobs and housing.  King Hamad, who before the clampdown had offered a national
dialogue with opposition leaders, now accuses them of colluding
with Shiite-ruled Iran in “subversive designs” that may have
spilled into other Gulf countries if they hadn’t been quashed,
the state-run  Bahrain news agency  reported. The agency has
referred to protesters as “ stray hyenas ” and  accused them  of
spreading a “culture of hatred, rancor, bigotry and
sectarianism.”  ‘Radicalized by Violence’  The crackdown has already killed at least 21 people, a
larger proportion of the population than the death toll in Egypt
during the revolt that toppled  Hosni Mubarak , and another 66 are
missing, the Bahrain Human Rights Society said March 22.
Doctors, activists and opposition leaders including Ebrahim
Sharif, a secular Sunni and head of the opposition National
Democratic Action Society, have been arrested.  Ali Jaffar, a pharmacist at  Salmaniya Medical Complex , said
he was forced from an ambulance at gunpoint on March 15, when he
went to aid injured people during protests in Sitra village.
“They made us lie down with our hands behind out heads,” he
said in an interview. “We thought they were going to kill us.”  “There will be certain Shiite groups within the country
that become radicalized because of the violence used against
them,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the
Dubai-based Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis.
“Some will go underground, and may form resistance groups.”  Barricades Against Police  In some Shiite villages, young men have set up barricades
against police incursions. In Karzakan, residents hold protests
each day at 4 p.m., while in Dumistan small groups of men watch
police movements on the outskirts of the town.  “I am afraid we are about to enter a period of radical
demands,” said Mattar Ibrahim Ali Mattar, a member of the
largest opposition party, Al-Wefaq. “We don’t know what will
happen. The more the government uses force and violence, the
more this increases the demands.”  In the days leading up to the latest attacks by security
forces and the arrival of Saudi troops, protesters had begun to
target the financial industry that’s central to Bahrain’s
economy, contributing about one-quarter of gross domestic
product. The industry’s assets of $222 billion in December were
more than 11 times gross domestic product, according to data on
the  Central Bank of Bahrain’s website .  Police fought with demonstrators blocking access to the
financial center on March 13. Hotels, shops, government
buildings and banks in central Manama were forced to close.  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  shut their branches,
though both banks say they have restored full operations.  Bahrain Grand Prix  That day, Bahrain had been due to host the season-opening
Formula One Grand Prix, the kind of high-profile international
event that the Al Khalifas have promoted. Another is the Manama
Dialogue, an annual gathering of policy makers that was attended
by U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  last year.  The government announced on Feb. 21 that the Formula One
race was canceled. The event generated about $600 million for
the economy in 2008, including $117 million spent by visitors on
hotels, food and drink, shopping and travel, according to a
study commissioned by the government last year.  Other international events have been scrapped.  UNESCO , the
cultural branch of the  United Nations , has  shifted  a June
meeting of its World Heritage Committee to Paris from Manama.
Two international  energy conferences  scheduled for next month
have been postponed.  Manama Dialogue  “Having high-profile sporting events and conferences
canceled will hurt the economy,” Karasik said. “Do you think
the Manama Dialogue will happen this year? I doubt it.”  The mourners at al-Aradi’s funeral vowed not to give up
their political battle. Women wept and men beat their chests as
they accompanied the body toward the American Mission Hospital
for burial.  “The government has humiliated us enough,” said Najeeba
al-Zaki, a mother of four. “It is time for this to end. We will
not stop pressing for our demands.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 