-- 
Baidu Tests Web Browser as China Search Leader Expands Range

-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-03-25T20:09:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/baidu-tests-web-browser-as-china-search-leader-expands-range.html
Baidu Inc.,  China ’s biggest
Internet company by market value, rose to a record in Nasdaq
trading as the country’s leading search engine said it has
developed a Web browser for personal computers.  The desktop browser is being tested internally among
employees at present, Baidu spokesman Kaiser Kuo said in an
interview today. The new service “dovetails” with the
company’s “box-computing” technology, he said, without
disclosing when it will be offered to the public.  The browser may put Baidu in direct competition with
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Internet Explorer and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Chrome.
Chief Executive Officer Robin Li is expanding Baidu in social-
networking and online videos after the Beijing-based company
took search-engine market share from Google in China, the
world’s biggest online market.  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. has held talks with Baidu
about an operating system for mobile phones, according to Sanjay Jha, chief executive officer at the Libertyville, Illinois-based
company. Kuo today declined to comment on Baidu’s plans for an
operating system, saying the company doesn’t discuss the
development of products that haven’t been introduced.  Baidu rose $1.45, or 1.1 percent, to $134.92 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, the highest level
since trading began in August 2005. The stock has surged 40
percent in U.S. trading this year.  Box Computing  This week, Baidu’s Kuo neither confirmed or denied a March
23 Financial Times report saying the company is planning to
develop a “light operating system,” after the newspaper’s
interview with CEO Li. The executive didn’t specifically tell FT
that the company will develop an operating system for mobile
devices, and he focused only on Baidu’s “box-computing”
technology, Kuo said on March 23.  Baidu’s vision is to “obviate” operating systems so that
the customer interface on any device, be it a personal computer,
notebook, tablet or smartphone, is a simple, yet powerful search
box using conversational language, Kuo said.  Baidu has said it
intends to develop its box-computing service to link the
provision of content including books, video games and other
entertainment, to online searches.  Baidu accounted for 75.5 percent of China’s search-engine
market by revenue in the fourth quarter, rising from 73 percent
in the previous three months, according to research company
Analysys International. Google’s share dropped to 19.6 percent
from 21.6 percent, the research firm said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  