-- 
Barclays Said to Be Investigated by Regulators in Libor Probe

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-03-25T12:26:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/barclays-said-to-be-investigated-by-regulators-in-libor-probe.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  is being investigated
by regulators seeking to determine if it broke information-
sharing rules when setting the London interbank offered rate, a
person briefed on the probe said.  U.S. and U.K. regulators are examining if communications
between Barclays’s traders and its treasury broke regulations
that stop information being shared across the bank, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the details of the
investigation are private. The Financial Times reported the
inquiry on its website yesterday.  Barclays, the U.K.’s third-biggest bank, is among banks
including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and UBS AG that have received subpoenas
from U.S. regulators investigating whether some firms
manipulated the Libor rate, two separate people familiar with
the probe said yesterday. The  U.S. Department of Justice ,
Securities and Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures Trading
Commission are working together with the U.K.’s Financial
Services Authority on the probe.  Spokesmen for London-based Barclays, the BBA and Financial
Services Authority declined to comment when contacted by
Bloomberg News. A Citigroup spokesman declined to comment.  Libor, a benchmark for more than $350 trillion of financial
products worldwide, is set daily by the British Bankers’
Association based on data from banks reflecting how much it
would cost them to borrow for various periods and in different
currencies. During the financial crisis, banks routinely
misstated borrowing costs to the BBA to avoid the perception
they faced difficulty raising funds, Tim Bond, then head of
 asset allocation  at  Barclays Capital , said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in May 2008.  The investigation emerged last week after UBS AG,
 Switzerland ’s biggest bank, said it received subpoenas from U.S.
and Japanese regulators. UBS said it is conducting an internal
review and is cooperating with the investigations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  