-- 
Beef Imports by Japan Set to Climb as Food Radiation Risk Roils Consumers

-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 
2011-03-25T06:13:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/beef-imports-by-japan-set-to-climb-as-food-radiation-risk-roils-consumers.html
Beef purchases by  Japan , the third-
largest importer, will probably climb as radiation leaks from
the stricken Fukushima nuclear plant hurt consumption of local
foods including fish, Australian producer groups said.  “Seafood makes up a really large portion of their protein
consumption, so they will be looking at filling that protein gap
somehow,” said Tim McRae, an economist with Meat & Livestock
 Australia  from Sydney. Japan is also the largest pork importer.  The detection of cobalt, iodine and cesium in the sea near
the crippled plant north of Tokyo this week hit fish sales in
the world’s second-biggest seafood market. Shoppers ignored
government reassurances that food and water supplies were safe
even as  Singapore  widened its ban after finding radioactive
contamination in Japanese vegetables.  “There is not going to be a major impact on their own
domestic beef production but there may be potential increases in
import demand because of concerns about radioactivity,”
 Australian Lot Feeders Association  Executive Director Dougal
Gordon said in a phone interview today.  In Tokyo, Ryoko Mizumoto, a 27-year-old mother of two, said
she stopped buying dried Shirasu fish and horse mackerel. “I
gave up buying maritime products and started buying cheap
meat,” she said while lining up to buy bottled water at one of
Seven & I Holdings Co.’s Ito-Yokado stores in Tokyo. “I make
hamburger steak to replace the fish.”  Seafood Demand  Japan consumes about 9 million metric tons of seafood a
year, second behind  China ’s more than 1.3 billion people,
according to the website of the Sea Around Us Project, a
collaboration between the University of British Columbia and the
Pew Environment Group. It’s the world’s largest fish importer,
according to the UN Food and Agriculture Organization.  JBS SA, the world’s largest beef producer, said prices for
export to Japan rose about 10 percent in two weeks as consumers
boosted stocks following the tsunami, according to comments made
by Chief Executive Officer Wesley Batista on a conference call
yesterday with analysts.  Cattle for June delivery on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange
rose 0.3 percent to $1.15125 a pound at 4:35 p.m. Melbourne time.
The price reached the highest level in more than a week on signs
of rising demand for U.S. beef from overseas buyers.  Australian beef trading with Japan, its largest export
market, was challenged by the “extraordinary situation in the
market,”  Meat & Livestock,  said in a weekly report today.  Cattle Prices  “Rain disrupted supplies, ongoing demand from other
markets and the stronger Australian dollar this week also
limited opportunities for Japanese buyers,” it said. Australian
cattle prices surged to a record this week as rain reduced
livestock numbers at sales.  U.S. pork exports may particularly benefit from increased
import demand for protein in Japan, McRae said.  The disaster caused damage in prefectures including Iwate,
Fukushima and Miyagi, which account for about 17 percent of the
nation’s broiler chickens, 10 percent of its beef cattle and 9
percent of the hog herd,  U.S. Meat Export Federation  has said.  The European Union will apply control measures to feed and
food originating in or consigned from 12 prefectures of Japan,
including the four most affected by the accident, the EU said
yesterday in a statement. All products from these prefectures
have to be tested for radiation before leaving Japan and will be
subject to random testing in the EU, it said.  Contaminant Levels  Singapore extended a ban on some foods imported from Japan
after finding radioactive contaminants in vegetables that were
as much as three times higher than prescribed limits.  Imported rapeseed plant was found to have 311 becquerels
per kilogram of iodine-131, exceeding the 100 becquerels
standard set by the United Nations Food and Agriculture
Organization, Singapore’s Agri-Food & Veterinary Authority said
in a  statement  on its website yesterday. Higher-than-acceptable
levels were also found in Japanese mustard and perilla leaf, the
AVA said, adding the food doesn’t pose a health threat.  The findings prompted the regulator to suspend imports of
fruit and vegetables from Chiba and Ehime prefectures, it said,
a day after it banned imports from four other prefectures.  Radioactive cesium above the government limit was found on
komatsuna, a leafy vegetable known as Japanese mustard spinach,
harvested in the Tokyo’s Edogawa ward, Japanese authorities said
yesterday. That indicates radioactive elements have spread 220
kilometers (135 miles) south of the Fukushima plant.  Japan was likely to boost imports of beef, pork and chicken,
Susumu Harada, senior director at the  Tokyo  office of the U.S.
Meat Export Federation said March 17.  The halting of fishing in Fukushima, Miyagi and Iwate since
the quake had reduced the risk that “tainted fish will be in
the market,” said Yasuo Sasaki, senior press counselor at the
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. “We don’t see
fish at a high risk of contamination because of radiation
dilution,” Sasaki said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Pugh in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 Jpoole4@bloomberg.net  