-- 
Belarus’s Currency Reserves Cover One Month’s Imports, RBS Says

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-03-25T14:39:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/belarus-s-currency-reserves-cover-one-month-s-imports-rbs-says.html
Belarus ’s foreign-currency reserves
cover about one month of imports and the former Soviet Republic
may be forced to devalue its currency as it looks to neighboring
Russia for aid, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said.  The central bank of Belarus has lost about 60 percent of
its convertible foreign-currency reserves since October, at
about a pace of $500 million per month, Timothy Ash, head of
emerging-market research at RBS in London, wrote in an e-mailed
note today, citing his calculations based on central bank data.  International reserves stood at $4.02 billion at the end of
February, according to the central bank’s website. That leaves
it with $2.73 billion of liquid currency stockpiles, which is
“concerning,” Ash wrote.  “Time is running out and additional financing sources need
to be found quickly,” according to Ash.  Belarus requested aid from  Russia  and some other former
Soviet partners after Standard & Poor’s cut Belarus’s debt
rating on March 15, citing increased “external vulnerability.”
A $3.5 billion loan provided by the  International Monetary Fund 
in 2009 during the global financial crisis has expired.  There is “little prospect of a new financing program from
the IMF given western governments would likely block such a
program amid concern over developments on the political front,
such as the arrest of opposition supporters,” Ash wrote.  The country of 10 million was dubbed the “last
dictatorship in  Europe ” by the administration of former U.S.
President  George W. Bush . President Alexander Lukashenko, who
has ruled Belarus since 1994, was returned to office for a
fourth term in December with almost 80 percent of the vote.  The  Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe 
said the election was neither free nor fair and the regime has
intensified its crackdown on the opposition, arresting more than
700 people.  The reduction in reserves may necessitate a devaluation of
Belarus’s ruble of between 20 percent and 30 percent, Ash has
estimated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  