-- 
Bernanke Betting Briefings to Promote Clarity Instead of Market Volatility

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-03-25T19:24:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/bernanke-betting-briefings-to-bring-clarity-not-volatility.html
Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is betting that by holding regular press conferences
he’ll provide clarity about monetary policy without saying
something that may disrupt financial markets.  The Fed said yesterday that Bernanke will begin holding
four press briefings a year. The first sessions in April and
June will give Bernanke an opportunity to discuss his next steps
after completing the record stimulus from the purchase of $600
billion in  Treasury securities  through June.  Bernanke is trying to dispel concerns from investors,
lawmakers and the public that the second round of so-called
quantitative easing, or QE2, is inflationary and ineffective in
spurring growth. He said last month that officials were weighing
the benefits of greater transparency against the risk that
remarks are “misinterpreted” and trigger “unnecessary
volatility” in financial markets.  “If we were to have a person that was unskilled in this
trade, it might not succeed, it might end up backfiring,” said
former Fed Governor  Lyle Gramley , now senior economic adviser
with Potomac Research Group in Washington. “But I think
Bernanke is a very skilled guy in communications. He will do a
good job.”  While press conferences were unthinkable for central
bankers three decades ago, the Fed’s recent resistance had set
it apart from peer institutions. European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  and Bank of  Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa
each hold one after every policy meeting, while  Bank of England 
Governor  Mervyn King  speaks once a quarter. Bank of Canada
Governor Mark Carney also holds regular briefings.  Longstanding Trend  The decision is an effort by the central bank to catch-up
with a longstanding trend, said Gregory Hess, a former Fed
researcher who is now an economics professor at  Claremont
McKenna College  in  California . “This bus left the station maybe
10 years ago,” Hess said.  The press conferences will be broadcast on the Fed’s
website and coincide with the Federal Open Market Committee
meetings when officials update economic projections, allowing
Bernanke to present the figures three weeks earlier than prior
practice. The first will be April 27 at 2:15 p.m. in  Washington ,
the Fed said yesterday. The FOMC’s statement will be released at
12:30 p.m. on the days when Bernanke is speaking, instead of the
usual time of 2:15 p.m., the central bank said.  Clarity, Timeliness  “The introduction of regular press briefings is intended
to further enhance the clarity and timeliness of the Federal
Reserve’s monetary policy communication,” the Fed said in a
statement yesterday. “The Federal Reserve will continue to
review its communications practices in the interest of ensuring
accountability and increasing public understanding.”  A January global poll of 1,000 Bloomberg customers who are
investors, traders or analysts found that a plurality of
respondents, 35 percent, said the second round of quantitative
easing hasn’t had any significant effect on the economy. Another
33 percent said the asset purchases risk causing a dangerous
acceleration of inflation. A majority of Americans said in a
December poll by Bloomberg that the Fed should either be brought
under tighter political control or abolished outright.  Republican politicians including House Speaker  John Boehner , as well as Chinese, German and Brazilian government
officials, have said the policy may undermine the dollar.  In testimony to lawmakers this month, Bernanke cited rising
equity prices and narrowing corporate bond spreads as evidence
of the success of the bond purchases. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index has climbed 23 percent since Aug. 27, when Bernanke first
signaled the Fed was prepared to launch QE2.  ‘Hiding Secrets’  It’s important to the Fed that “they be seen as
transparent, that they’re not hiding secrets and that they head
off any criticism from Congress,”  Diane Swonk , chief economist
at Mesirow Financial Inc. in  Chicago , said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television.  Bernanke, 57, had been the only head of a Group of Seven
nation’s central bank not to give press conferences to explain
actions and projections. He had previously relied mainly on
speeches, congressional testimony and occasional interviews to
convey his messages.  Congress and the courts have forced the Fed to become more
transparent in other ways over the past year. The Fed is
preparing to release details of emergency loans it made to banks
in 2008 after the  Supreme Court  on March 21 rejected an industry
appeal to shield the records, leaving intact victories in a
lawsuit by Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News.  Financial Panic  The Supreme Court ruling filled a transparency gap after
the central bank, under the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, on Dec. 1
named the counterparties of about 21,000 transactions from $3.3
trillion in aid provided to stem the worst financial panic since
the Great Depression. The law exempted the past discount window
lending from disclosure.  “When you’ve seen some efforts in Congress to try to
dramatically undermine the Fed, that are not in the long-term
interest of our country’s financial system, this kind of added
transparency helps,” Senator Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat,
said today at a press conference in Brussels.  Gramley said that during his years as a Fed board member
from 1980 to 1985, “no one would have even dreamed” of holding
press conferences. Officials operated on the assumption that the
Fed “would succeed best if it surprised the market,” he said.
The FOMC began announcing interest-rate moves in 1994 and has
incrementally increased transparency since then by shortening
the release time for meeting minutes and expanding economic
projections.  Unanimously Recommended  A four-person Fed subcommittee of policy makers unanimously
recommended starting press conferences, said Dallas Fed
President  Richard Fisher , who was on the panel. “It’s in the
interest of greater transparency,” Fisher said at the same
Brussels press conference.  Bernanke got off to a rocky start with the media after he
took office in 2006. In April of that year, he told CNBC
reporter Maria Bartiromo at a Washington party that markets had
misinterpreted his remarks to Congress that had suggested the
Fed was finished raising rates. Bonds tumbled when CNBC reported
the conversation. Bernanke later said the incident was a “lapse
in judgment.”  The chairman has increasingly opened up to the press and
public since the financial crisis intensified in 2008 and he
took unprecedented steps to revive the economy and bail out
companies such as  American International Group Inc. (AIG)   Town-Hall Discussion  Bernanke sat for interviews with CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes”
program in 2009 and 2010, and led a town-hall-style discussion
on PBS television. He has also engaged with business leaders and
college students around the country for question-and-answer
sessions and discussions about the economy.  Press conferences may give Bernanke’s remarks more
prominence at the expense of colleagues who disagree. As part of
yesterday’s action, the Fed shortened its informal blackout
period on remarks by other policy makers to run through Thursday
instead of Friday after the meetings, a central bank official
said on condition of anonymity. Bernanke’s briefings will take
place on Wednesdays.  “These press briefings will elevate the message of the
consensus on the committee,” said Dana Saporta, a U.S.
economist with Credit Suisse in  New York .  Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig , who dissented from
all eight FOMC decisions last year, said in a statement
yesterday that “I support all members’ efforts to communicate
their views as clearly and as timely as they deem appropriate
and necessary.”  For Bernanke, the advantages are that he “gets to talk
before everybody else, and gets to provide some nuance on the
message,” said  Vincent Reinhart , who was the Fed’s director of
monetary affairs from 2001 to 2007.  The downside may be that the Fed is “going to be extremely
risk-averse and will not use it to convey a whole lot of
information,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  