-- 
Bertam, Eastern & Oriental, Gamuda: Malaysia Equity Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-03-25T00:07:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/bertam-eastern-oriental-gamuda-malaysia-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in  Malaysia  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index rose 0.1 percent to
1,513.84.        Bertam Alliance Bhd. (BERT)  : The property developer said
it agreed to buy land in Cheras, Selangor state for 24.3 million
ringgit ($8 million). Bertam will build apartments and shops on
the land in a project worth 200 million ringgit in gross
development value, the company said in a statement. The stock
was unchanged at 66 sen.        Eastern & Oriental Bhd. (EAST)  : The property developer
agreed to sell its 28 percent stake in  Fututech Bhd. (FUT)  , a
lighting products supplier, for 8.78 million ringgit. The sale
will allow Eastern & Oriental to “redeploy its resources into
its higher-yielding core businesses,” the company said in a
statement. Eastern & Oriental fell 0.8 percent to 1.19 ringgit
before it was suspended. Fututech gained 2 percent to 51 sen
before the stock’s trading halt.  Gamuda Bhd. (GAM)  : The construction and property group
said profit in the second quarter ended Jan. 31 rose 20 percent
from a year earlier to 94 million ringgit, boosted by
contributions from all its divisions, according to a company
statement. The stock added 1.6 percent to 3.79 ringgit.  IRM Group Bhd. (IRMG MK): The manufacturer of polyvinyl
chloride resins, sheeting and pipes said it signed an agreement
with Perbadanan Kemajuan Negeri Perak to collaborate on the
logging, extraction and transport of bamboo in northern Perak
state, according to a company statement. IRM last traded little
changed at 15 sen on March 21.        Masterskill Education Group Bhd. (MASEG)  : Malaysia’s
largest operator of non-government nursing colleges said its
college in Cheras, Selangor state has received government
approval for a doctorate program in medical and health science
that will contribute “positively” to earnings, it said in a
statement. The shares added 0.6 percent to 1.84 ringgit.        Ramunia Holdings Bhd. (RH)  : The oil and gas services
provider said profit in the first quarter ended Jan. 31 dropped
68 percent from a year earlier to 1.1 million ringgit after
sales slid, according to a company statement. Ramunia lost 1.7
percent to 59 sen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in Hong Kong at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  