-- 
Beutner May Parlay Job-Boosting Into Run for Los Angeles Mayor

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-03-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/beutner-may-parlay-job-boosting-into-run-for-los-angeles-mayor.html
Austin Beutner, point man for Los
Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa’s efforts to create jobs,
will decide soon whether to run for the top job and take on the
city’s fiscal challenges.  The 50-year-old co-founder of New York-based investment
bank  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  has worked 15 months as first deputy
mayor at a $1-a-year salary. He is charged with boosting
private-sector hiring in a city with 12.2 percent  unemployment ,
more than three points above the national average.  Los Angeles, the second most-populous U.S. city, almost ran
out of cash last year and faces a $350 million deficit for the
fiscal year starting July 1. Beutner, a former private equity
investor, can tap his wealth and Wall Street friends for the
resources to build a following beyond the business community.  “My wife’s going to shoot me if I don’t decide one way or
the other sometime soon,” Beutner, a registered independent,
said in an interview in Bloomberg News’  Los Angeles  office.  Beutner will confront Controller Wendy Greuel and
Councilwoman Jan Perry, who are already running, and possible
contenders in County Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky, City Council
President Eric Garcetti and state Senator Alex Padilla. The city
has changed, with more Democrats, independents and Hispanic
voters since businessman Richard Riordan won in 1993.  Los Angeles’ next mayoral election, officially nonpartisan,
is in March 2013. Villaraigosa can’t run due to term limits.  Thinning the Herd  Beutner may enter the race soon to scare off competition,
said Matthew Klink, executive vice president of  Cerrell
Associates Inc. , a Los Angeles-based political consulting firm.  “He can spend as much as he wants,” Klink said in an
interview. “He can thin the herd,”  On the jobs front, Beutner helped persuade Los Angeles to
halve the time required to approve new bars or restaurants and
to introduce a three-year tax holiday for companies moving to
the city, said Carol Schatz, president of the  Central City
Association of Los Angeles , an advocacy group. He is leading
talks for a new downtown football stadium and convention center.  “The guy does understand basic economics, which isn’t
always the case in our elected officials,” Schatz said in a
phone interview. “His views and the business community really
do link arm in arm.”  Getting Creative  New York  and  Chicago  have better relationships between
their private sectors and government employees, according to
Beutner, a father of four who has lived in Los Angeles more than
10 years.  Beutner is critical of Governor  Jerry Brown ’s proposals to
eliminate tax breaks for businesses hiring in depressed areas
and to shut down redevelopment agencies that channel property
taxes for specific projects. Absent those tools, the city can
still lure new businesses by creatively using existing
resources, he said.  “He’s been a real positive for the city,” said  David
Wright , a vice president at Plains All American Pipeline L.P.,
which is trying to build a $500 million oil tanker terminal at
the Port of Los Angeles and has had regular meetings with
Beutner and his staff regarding the project.  Among his accomplishments, Beutner said, was bringing
Chinese electric carmaker BYD Co.’s U.S. headquarters to the
city, in part by promising exposure for its vehicles at Los
Angeles International Airport and at an annual mayoral Oscars
party. The city will soon place signs in airport baggage
carousels touting conventions and corporate relocations.  “We will boost local businesses,” Beutner said. “It’s
using our assets wisely.”  Like Ed Koch?  Beutner convened representatives of community colleges and
car dealers to create a mechanics training  program  coupled with
paid internships, an idea that came to him after walking the
floor of the Los Angeles Auto Show, he said.  “Kind of the old Ed Koch, ‘How’s business? What can we do
for you?’” Beutner said, referring to New York’s mayor from
1978 to 1989.  The track record of businesspeople running for public
office in  California  isn’t good, Councilwoman Perry said in an
interview. “Look at  Meg Whitman  and Jerry Brown,” she said,
referring to the former  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  chief executive officer who
lost the governor’s race last year after spending more than $141
million of her own.  “He’s just way too new,” Fernando Guerra, director of the
Center for the Study of Los Angeles at Loyola Marymount
University, said of Beutner. “He’s not been engaged in L.A.
politics and civic life until the past year.”  Accident and Aftermath  Beutner said no frontrunners have emerged, suggesting there
is time to build recognition if he runs.  “A bunch of people have approached me and suggested I
should,” he said. “Others have said, ‘Think carefully about
it.’”  Beutner retired from Evercore in 2008 after breaking his
neck in a bicycle accident prompted him to re-evaluate his life.  He said the City Council is failing to address the
continuing budget shortfalls.  “I’ve only heard the mayor’s voice,” Beutner said. “I’ve
heard no other elected official.”  The council voted March 23 to eliminate most of a $54
million current-year deficit by cutting spending and pulling
cash from other city accounts, according to Dennis Gleason, an
aide to Councilman Bernard Parks, chairman of the Budget and
Finance Committee.  Beutner said he didn’t have specific recommendations for
balancing the budget because “I don’t have the responsibility
at the moment.” His fixes would involve  job creation , which
would raise revenue for the city, and negotiations with
municipal workers to reduce short and long-term employee costs.  “It’s a $400 million problem,” he said. “I’m not
particularly interested in hearing about a $1 million
solution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  