-- 
Bovespa Stock Index in Biggest Weekly Gain in a Month on Earnings Growth

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-03-25T20:36:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/bovespa-stock-index-futures-advance-as-brazilian-profits-beat-forecasts.html
Brazil ’s Bovespa stock index posted
the biggest weekly advance in three after phone-service
providers surged on speculation they’ll weather rising inflation
and borrowing costs.  Carrier Brasil Telecom SA today gained the most since 2008,
helping the benchmark gauge of Brazilian telecommunications
stocks cap its biggest weekly jump since May. B2W Cia. Global do
Varejo, Brazil’s largest online retailer, climbed the most in a
month after Banco Fator SA recommended buying the shares, saying
a cash injection from its parent bolsters the company’s outlook.  “Telecom is a historically more defensive sector in
moments of volatility -- it’s a good payer of dividends,” said
Joao Pedro Brugger, who helps oversee 60 million reais ($36
million) at Leme Investimentos in Florianopolis, Brazil.  The Bovespa increased 0.3 percent to 67,765.94 at the 4:15
p.m. New York time close. Fifty-two stocks climbed on the index
while 16 dropped. The measure is up 1.3 percent for the week.
The real gained 0.1 percent to 1.6586 per dollar today, for a
weekly advance of 0.4 percent.  The MSCI Brazil/Telecommunication Services Index completed
a 10 percent weekly advance. Tim Participacoes SA, the Brazilian
unit of  Italy ’s largest phone company, led gains on the measure
this week with an 11 percent increase. The stock rose 1.7
percent to 7.06 reais today.  Brasil Telecom gained 8 percent to 14.15 reais. Investors
are speculating Telemar Norte Leste SA, which agreed to buy its
rival in April 2008, will make a new offer to minority investors
as part of a plan to integrate the two companies, said Luciana
Leocadio, an analyst at Rio de Janeiro-based brokerage Ativa
Corretora.  Fidelity Purchases  A press official at Telemar, who can’t be identified due to
internal policy, didn’t immediately comment.  Fidelity Investments  is buying Brazilian telecom stocks on
speculation growing demand for smartphones will withstand rising
interest rates, Adam Kutas, who oversees $4 billion in Latin
America, said in an interview yesterday.  Traders boosted bets for higher borrowing costs today after
central bank President Alexandre Tombini, speaking in  Sao Paulo ,
said inflation expectations in Brazil may “worsen” as analysts
factor in the residual impact from the global rally in commodity
prices.  The yield on interest-rate futures contracts due in
January, the most actively traded in Sao Paulo today, rose 3
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 12.24 percent.  B2W climbed 2.9 percent to 22.80 reais. Lojas Americanas SA
will inject as much as 1 billion reais into the company,
according to a filing this week.  Embraer Falls  The Bovespa’s advance today was limited by  Embraer SA (EMBR3) , the
world’s fourth-largest plane builder, which tumbled 5.3 percent
to 13.36 reais after disclosing a 2011 sales forecast that was
lower than expected by Bank of America Corp.  The Bovespa dropped 2.6 percent this year through yesterday
as homebuilders and banks retreated on concern rising inflation
will limit growth, outweighing gains in oil and steel producers.
The index trades at 10.6 times analysts’ earnings estimates,
according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to
a ratio of 13.7 for the Shanghai Composite Index, 7.2 for
 Russia ’s Micex, and 16.7 for  India ’s Sensex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  