-- 
BP Can Run More Tests on Deepwater Horizon Blowout Preventer

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 
2011-03-25T21:17:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/bp-can-do-more-tests-on-deepwater-horizon-blowout-preventer-1-.html
BP Plc (BP/)  can conduct additional tests
on the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig’s blowout prevention
equipment now that government examiners have finished their own
forensic testing, a judge ruled.  “The additional BOP testing shall be performed in a manner
that preserves the evidence to the maximum extent possible,’’
U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  said in his order, referring to
the blowout prevention equipment. He ruled that other companies
involved in the disaster could also now run additional tests, so
long as everyone is allowed to monitor the procedures and share
in the results.  The 300-ton stack of valves failed to seal off BP’s runaway
well last April, triggering a fatal rig explosion and the worst
offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history. BP asked Barbier for
permission to partially dismantle and conduct laser scans on the
blowout preventer, which was recovered from the sea floor off
the  Louisiana  coast last year.  “BP is clearly looking for any liability they can pin on
the BOP,” said Houston lawyer Brent Coon, one of the lawyers
marshalling evidence for the consolidated oil-spill damages
lawsuits against BP and other companies involved in the failed
drilling operation, referring to the blowout preventer.  “This is BP’s way of trying to shift more of the blame for
the cleanup costs onto the other companies,” Coon said in a
telephone interview.  Contractors  By law, BP is liable for all cleanup and restoration costs
and some of the damages caused by oil spilled from its well. The
company reserved more than $40 billion last year to cover these
anticipated expenses, which include billions of dollars in
government fines.  U.S. law allows BP to recover some of that expense from its
contractors on the well, if they are proven to be partly to
blame.  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  owned the Deepwater Horizon, while
Halliburton Energy Services,  Cameron International Corp. (CAM)  and
Weatherford International provided key supplies or services to
the well.  Government forensic investigators determined that the BOP’s
ram shears failed to fully sever an off-center drill pipe that
was trapped in the device, according to a report released March
23. The report didn’t assign blame for the accident to any
particular company.  The U.S. conducted more than three months of tests on the
BOP without doing the specific additional tests BP requested on
the hydraulic system, solenoids and annular rams, according to a
March 4 BP court filing.  Forensic Activities  “BP, however, believes that performance of these forensic
activities will add value to an analysis of why the BOP did not
work as intended,”  Don Haycraft , BP’s lead defense attorney,
said in papers filed in federal court in New Orleans.  Barbier ruled that custody of the BOP will remain with the
government forensic team, which is comprised of investigators
from the U.S. Coast Guard and offshore drilling regulators, who
are coordinating with the  Justice Department . The equipment
isn’t to be moved from its present site at the NASA/Michoud
assembly facility in eastern New Orleans.  The additional tests will be conducted by either Norwegian
contractor  Det Norske Veritas , which ran the original tests, or
by another third-party testing firm approved by the court.  Barbier said the extra tests must be completed by June 15.
He also instructed Cameron, which made the BOP, and Transocean,
which was responsible for maintaining it, to share copies of
their engineering drawings and specifications for the device, to
aid in interpreting test results.  Cameron had initially objected to BP’s request to hand over
its blueprints. At a hearing in  New Orleans  today, Haycraft told
Barbier the companies had worked out a compromise to allow the
extra tests.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ; and Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at
   allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 