-- 
Brazil Wind Energy Prices May Fall Below Record Lows Set at 2010 Auctions

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-03-25T15:59:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/brazil-wind-energy-prices-may-fall-below-record-lows-set-at-2010-auctions.html
Brazilian  wind energy  is the
world’s cheapest, based on contracts sold at two government-
sponsored auctions last year, and prices at the next auction may
be lower still as new manufacturing plants go into production, a
developer said.  General Electric Co. (GE) , Germany’s  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  India ’s
 Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  are all building turbine factories in Brazil
that will help reduce project costs, according to the renewable
energy developer  Renova Energia SA. (RNEW11)   Wind farms in Brazil are more productive than in other
regions, offsetting construction costs that can be as much as 20
percent higher than in Europe or the U.S., said Renova’s Chief
Financial Officer Roberto Honczar. As project costs fall,
developers can offer lower prices than in last year’s auctions.  “Maybe it will remain around the same level, maybe it will
go lower” at the next auction in July, Honczar said in an
interview yesterday.  “There are still gains” to be made in project costs, he
said. “There’s room for them to come down.”  Developers agreed to sell electricity for 131 reais ($79) a
megawatt-hour, the average price from the two auctions held last
year. That was lower than the guaranteed purchase-price from any
other country, according to data compiled by Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  Below-Average Prices  Renova signed contracts for six wind farms in one auction
last year at 121.25 reais a megawatt-hour, 7 percent below the
average, according to the website of  Brazil ’s electricity
trading board Camara de Comercializacao de Energia Eletrica.  Eduardo Tabbush, a wind energy analyst at New Energy
Finance, said average prices at this year’s auctions may fall as
low as $70 a megawatt-hour. The renewable energy auctions “are
a fiercely competitive process,” he said in an interview.  He questioned whether developers will be able to make a
profit selling wind power at less than last year’s price. “Some
projects might not be financially viable, especially those done
by inexperienced developers,” Tabbush said.  Honczar said capacity factors for Renova’s wind farms in
Brazil, a measurement of how often the turbines are spinning
throughout the year, may exceed 50 percent. That’s double the
rate achieved in  Europe , according to BNEF.  The industry average price to build wind projects in Brazil
is about 4 million reais a megawatt of installed capacity,
Honczar said.  Renova expects to spend 3.9 million reais a megawatt for 14
wind farms it is building in Bahia, in eastern Brazil, and that
figure will likely come down for the 162 megawatts of wind farms
in the same state for which it signed power-purchase contracts
at the 2010 auctions, he said.  Cheap land in Bahia and little competition for power-
transmission infrastructure drive costs down, he said. “When
you add up all these aspects we can sell at a lower rate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  