-- 
Bristol Wins U.S. Yervoy Approval as First-Line Metastatic Melanoma Drug

-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-03-25T20:06:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/bristol-myers-squibb-wins-u-s-fda-approval-for-new-melanoma-medicine.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  won U.S.
approval for ipilimumab, the first drug proven to extend the
lives of patients with advanced melanoma, the most deadly form
of skin cancer. The shares rose the most in nine months.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared the medicine for
patients with widely spread melanoma, the agency said today in a
statement. The approval covers first-line, or initial treatment,
said Elliott Sigal, Bristol-Myers’s chief scientific officer.
Yervoy will cost $30,000 a dose, or $120,000 for a four-dose
course of treatment, the company said.  Ipilimumab, marketed as Yervoy, is in a new class of drugs
designed to fight cancer by removing molecular brakes that
prevent immune system cells from destroying tumors. The drug may
reap $1.7 billion by 2015, said  Tim Anderson , an analyst with
Sanford C. Bernstein, in a March 22 report.  “The label is substantially broader than we expected and
from a pricing perspective it is more than twice what we had
anticipated,” said  Tony Butler , an analyst with  Barclays
Capital  in  New York , in a telephone interview today.  New York-based Bristol-Myers rose 86 cents, or 3.3 percent,
to $27.29 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading, the biggest single-day increase since June 7.  Most Difficult  Melanoma that has spread beyond the skin to other organs
and tissue has been among the most difficult types of cancers to
attack. It is typically treated with the chemotherapy drug
dacarbazine and interleukin-2, an immunotherapy. Neither has
been proven to extend survival.  The broad label “is a very important surprise for the
company,” Sigal said in a telephone interview. “This is not
what we went in for.”  Sigal said the approval of Yervoy may be the beginning of a
new wave of treatments that spur the immune system against
cancer. Bristol-Myers will be combining Yervoy with other
treatments in trials to improve its efficacy, he said. It is
also testing the drug in patients with prostate cancer.  “This is going to be very significant for oncology,” Sigal
said. “For certain patients, if their own immune systems can be
unleashed to fight their cancer cells, they have a chance to go
into prolonged remission.”  Trial Results  In a 676-patient trial Bristol-Myers used to seek approval,
patients on ipilimumab had a median survival time of 10 months,
versus 6.4 months for those who didn’t receive the medicine,
according to results published the New England Journal of
Medicine in August.  Side effects included colon inflammation, diarrhea and skin
rashes. Twelve  melanoma  patients on ipilimumab died of side
effects related to their treatment. The FDA required the company
implement a plan to inform doctors and patients of the drug’s
risks.  “Late-stage melanoma is devastating, with very few
treatment options for patients, none of which previously
prolonged a patient’s life,” Richard Pazdur, director of the
Office of Oncology Drug Products in the FDA’s Center for Drug
Evaluation and Research, said in the statement. “Yervoy is the
first therapy approved by the FDA to clearly demonstrate that
patients with metastatic melanoma live longer by taking this
treatment.”  Separately, Bristol-Myers reported on March 21 that a study
found the medicine also improved survival when used as an
initial melanoma treatment. The  American Cancer Society  says
that 68,000 Americans develop melanoma and 8,700 die from it
each year.  Sought-After Therapy  “The demand for the drug will be high,” Antoni Ribas, an
oncologist at the University of  California ,  Los Angeles , said in
an e-mail.  In addition to melanoma, Bristol-Myers is testing
ipilimumab against advanced prostate cancer in two trials in the
last of three phases of tests generally needed for marketing
approval. The company also plans to begin a final-stage trial in
 lung cancer  this year.  “This is a major step forward after a long run of bad
news” for melanoma drugs, said Timothy Turnham, executive
director of the  Melanoma Research Foundation  in  Washington ,
D.C., in a March 23 interview.  Survivor’s Story  Some patients who received ipilimumab in clinical trials
have survived for years. Gavin McGrath, a 51-year-old
schoolteacher who lives in Spring Lake Heights,  New Jersey , was
diagnosed with advanced melanoma inside his right shoulder in
November 2005. His doctors never found the original surface
tumor.  He may have gotten the disease because he was a landscaper
during his teenage and college years and didn’t wear sunscreen,
he said in a telephone interview.  By 2007, the melanoma had spread to his lungs, neck, and
liver, and he had failed conventional treatment. After he
received four doses of ipilimumab in the fall of 2007, the
tumors started to shrink. “The scans right now are clean”
other than a few enlarged lymph nodes, he said in March 22
telephone interview. “It cured me.”  Bristol-Myers is testing five other cancer drugs that, like
ipilimumab, harness the immune system to fight cancer.  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  of Basel,  Switzerland , and closely held
Plexxikon Inc., of Berkeley, California, plan to seek U.S.
clearance this year for another new type of melanoma treatment,
called vemurafenib. It targets a mutant gene found in about half
of melanoma cases, and improved survival in a final-stage trial
the companies reported in January.  Daiichi Sankyo,  Japan ’s third-largest drugmaker, agreed to
buy Plexxikon for as much as $935 million on March 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  