-- 
Buffett Says Avoid Long-Term Bonds Tied to Eroding Dollar

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r ,   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-03-25T17:33:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/buffett-says-avoid-long-term-bonds-tied-to-eroding-dollar-value.html
Warren Buffett , the billionaire who
urged Congress in 2009 to guard against inflation, said
investors should avoid long-term fixed-income bets in U.S.
dollars because the currency’s purchasing power will decline.  “I would recommend against buying long-term fixed-dollar
investments,” Buffett, chairman and chief executive officer of
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said today in  New Delhi . “If you ask
me if the  U.S. dollar  is going to hold its purchasing power
fully at the level of 2011, 5 years, 10 years or 20 years from
now, I would tell you it will not.”  Buffett, 80, has shortened the duration of Omaha, Nebraska-
based Berkshire’s bond holdings since 2009 as the U.S. Federal
Reserve eased monetary policy to stimulate the economy. Over the
same period, he has added to cash holdings and committed more
than $35 billion to company takeovers.  “I would much rather own businesses,” he said. “It’s
very easy to take away the value of fixed-dollar investments.”  The Fed and U.S. Treasury Department have pumped money into
the economy since the financial crisis through bank bailouts,
government stimulus and near-zero  interest rates . Buffett said
in an August 2009 op-ed in the New York Times that the
government must address this “monetary medicine.”  Outlook for Inflation  Inflation expectations among consumers rose in March to the
highest level since August 2008, according to the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final index of consumer
sentiment. Consumers said they expect inflation at 3.2 percent
over the next five years, compared with 2.9 percent last month.  Buffett, traveling in  India  to review Berkshire’s
operations and scout opportunities, took questions at a meeting
with insurance customers and spoke on topics from the economy to
investments. Buffett, who built Berkshire through stock picks
and takeovers, advised investors to be wary of valuations for
social-networking websites as some of the industry’s biggest
companies prepare to sell shares.  “Most of them will be overpriced,” Buffett said. “It’s
extremely difficult to value social-networking-site companies,”
he said, without naming firms. “Some will be huge winners,
which will make up for the rest.”  Buffett has shunned technology investments in favor of
industrial, financial and consumer-goods holdings in his four
decades at Berkshire. As of Dec. 31, the company owned about
 $61.5 billion  of stocks,  $34.9 billion  of fixed-maturity
securities and  $23 billion  of  “other investments.”  Berkshire’s securities maturing in more than 10 years fell
31 percent to  $2.72 billion  in the  18 months  ended Dec. 31,
according to regulatory filings. In that span, the company’s
cash holdings surged 56 percent to $38.2 billion.  Buffett completed his biggest takeover, the $26.5 billion
acquisition of railroad Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corp., last
year. On March 14, he agreed to buy Lubrizol Corp., the world’s
largest producer of lubricant additives, for about $9 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Bangalore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at   aghosh@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 