-- 
California Senate Leader Ready to ‘Pull Plug’ on Talks to Pass Brown Plan

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-03-25T21:49:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/california-senate-leader-ready-to-pull-plug-on-talks-to-pass-brown-plan.html
California ’s top Senate Democrat
said he may “pull the plug” on talks with Republicans to win
passage of Governor  Jerry Brown ’s plan for a statewide vote on
extending higher taxes to help close a $15 billion deficit.  Negotiations with Republicans who oppose the plan have
faltered, Senate President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg told
reporters today at the Capitol in Sacramento. He said he would
take direction from Brown on if and when to scuttle the talks.  “It’s time for this to end,” said Steinberg, a Sacramento
Democrat. “I am ready to pull the plug.”  Brown, a 72-year-old Democrat who took office in January,
hasn’t said if he will abandon plans for a statewide referendum
in June and pursue alternatives, such as a citizen initiative to
go before voters in November. Brown needs at least four
Republican votes to put the $9.3 billion in extended taxes and
fees on a June ballot. None have agreed to the plan.  The Senate and Assembly convened today and didn’t take up
the measure. The temporary taxes and fees are set to end in
June. Both chambers have recessed, with members remaining on
call through March 28 in the event of a breakthrough.  “I’ve been around 15 budgets and generally I can see a
pathway,” said the top Republican on the Assembly Budget
Committee, Jim Nielsen. “I don’t see a pathway.”  Critical to Plan  Brown has said the five-year tax-and-fee extension is
critical to close the most-populous U.S. state’s budget deficit
without deep cuts in education, public safety and other
government services. The governor this week signed budget bills
that cut spending by $8.2 billion and reduced the deficit by
another $3 billion through loans and transfers.  Brown wants voters to pass extensions of a 0.25 percentage-
point increase in personal income-tax rates; a 1 percentage-
point boost in the retail-sales tax rate, to 8.25 percent; an
increase in the rate for auto-registration fees of 0.5
percentage point, to 1.15 percent of a vehicle’s value; and a
reduction of the state’s child tax credit to $99 from $309.  Republicans have said they want voters to have a choice on
curbing government pension benefits, capping spending and
rescinding business and environmental regulations. Senate
Republican Leader Bob Dutton has taken over negotiations for his
caucus, replacing a group of senators dubbed the “GOP 5” by
fellow lawmakers.  List of Demands  Dutton today delivered a list of demands to Brown that the
governor must meet before Republicans will vote for the package.
Dutton, of Rancho Cucamonga, wouldn’t describe the demands.  The list pushed the two sides further apart, said Assembly
Speaker John Perez, a Los Angeles Democrat. Perez said he’s also
“pretty close” to abandoning talks and pursuing alternatives.  “Even a cursory review made it clear that they are
expanding their list of demands and trying to decrease the
actual economic value of any resolution,” Perez said.  Brown faces his first legislative defeat this year if he
can’t persuade Republicans to accept his plan. He has served two
previous terms in the office, from 1975 to 1983, and was elected
in November on pledges to repair financial strains that have
left California with the lowest  credit rating  among U.S. states.  With an economy bigger than  Russia ’s, California has fought
through a combined $100 billion of shortfalls in the past three
years. U.S. governors face deficits totaling as much as $112
billion in the coming fiscal year, according to the Washington-
based  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities . The nonprofit
group focuses on issues affecting lower-income Americans.  California’s general-obligation debt shares with Illinois
the lowest credit rating of any state from Moody’s Investors
Service. The A1 grade is Moody’s fifth-highest.  Standard &
Poor’s  gives California an A-, its fourth-lowest level for
investment-quality securities and the worst for any state.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  