-- 
California Redevelopment Agencies May Be Back in the Shadow of the Gallows

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-03-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/california-redevelopment-agencies-may-be-back-in-the-shadow-of-the-gallows.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown ’s
bid to dissolve about 400 redevelopment agencies and use their
revenue for schools and local government may be resurrected in a
compromise on tax increases to close the  budget deficit ,
according to a fiscal adviser to the Senate’s top Democrat.  “It will follow the larger budget deal,” Steve Shea, an
aide to Senate President Pro-Tem Darrell Steinberg, said of
Brown’s proposal at a redevelopment conference in Sacramento
yesterday. “It will fall into place as the larger budget deal
comes together.”  Brown proposed abolishing the agencies, which have
revitalized downtown  San Diego  and spruced up a Palm Desert golf
course, to help bridge what was a $26.6 billion gap. The $5
billion plan, opposed by several big-city mayors, fell short of
passing the Assembly by one vote on March 16.  Brown, a 72-year-old Democrat, took office in January on a
pledge to repair financial strains that have brought the lowest
 credit rating  to the most populous state. He signed budget bills
yesterday with cuts, loans and transfers that lowered the
deficit to $15.4 billion through June 2012.  The governor’s proposal to wipe out local redevelopment
agencies and enterprise zones won support from Assembly
Democrats and one Republican. Passage requires a two-thirds
majority, which would take one more Republican.  Many Republicans voted against shuttering redevelopment
agencies because their party was united against Brown’s overall
budget, not redevelopment in particular, said Assemblyman Chris Norby, a Republican from Orange County. He was the only one to
break with his party.  Powers Abused  Norby, who also spoke at the conference, said redevelopment
has become a form of corporate welfare and that some agencies
had abused their powers of eminent domain to seize private
property.  “For a number of them, it was a difficult vote to vote
with the agencies,” Norby said of fellow Republicans, in an
interview after the conference. “Many of them have been
fighting the abuses for years.”  Norby declined to forecast the bill’s chances of passing,
saying its fate is tied to Brown’s attempt to persuade at least
four Republican lawmakers to put $9.3 billion in tax extensions
on the June ballot.  Sabrina Lockhart, a spokeswoman for Assembly Republican
Leader Connie Conway, agreed with that view.  “Assembly Republicans oppose the budget overall because of
the gimmicks and the borrowing that got us into this mess,”
Lockhart said by phone yesterday.  Tax Increment  Under a 65-year-old California law, if a city or county
designates a redevelopment area to eliminate urban blight, the
agency in charge receives any increase in property-tax revenue
that results, known as the tax increment. Bonds sold by
redevelopment authorities are backed by such tax increments from
those areas.  A lawyer for redevelopment agencies warned last week that
cities and counties may face bondholder lawsuits if the agencies
are dissolved.  Attorney William Marticorena said Brown’s plan may damage
the credit quality of redevelopment bonds, causing their value
to drop. Investors could sue to recoup their losses, he said.  Assemblyman Robert Blumenfield, the Democrat who chairs the
Assembly’s budget committee, said during a floor debate on the
bill that lawmakers intend to bring back redevelopment in some
form.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Sacramento  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  