-- 
Cambridge Is Favored Over Oxford as Boat Race Beats Olympics for Betting

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-03-25T16:17:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/cambridge-crew-favored-over-oxford-as-boat-race-beats-olympics-for-betting.html
Cambridge University ’s crew is
favored to beat Oxford University tomorrow in one of the U.K.’s
oldest sports contests, an event that generates more wagers than
Olympic rowing, according to William Hill Plc.  Most bettors believe  Cambridge ’s crew, which is 1.63 kilos
(3.6 pounds) per man heavier, will be more powerful and win the
 Boat Race  for a second straight year, said Joe Crilley, a
spokesman for the U.K. bookmaker, which has about 2,350 shops.
As much as 2 million pounds ($3.2 million) will be bet on the
157th edition tomorrow, Crilley said.  “The race is part of the fabric of British sport,”
Crilley said. “People become an expert on rowing for two weeks
of every year. This year people are saying Cambridge will win
because it has more power.”  Cambridge is the 4-9 favorite with William Hill, meaning a
successful $10 bet would bring in $4.44 profit plus the original
stake.  Oxford  has 13-8 odds.  The contest started in 1829 after a Cambridge student wrote
to an Oxford friend proposing a race. The event takes place over
a 4.25-mile (6.8 kilometer) course on the  River Thames  in
London, lasting about 20 minutes.  Past participants have included the 1950-winning Cambridge
coxswain Lord Snowdon, who later married Princess Margaret, and
“House” television drama series actor Hugh Laurie, who was in
Cambridge’s losing boat in 1980.  Oxford Hope  Andrew Lobbenberg, a Royal Bank of Scotland airline
analyst, coxed two winning Oxford boats in 1987 and 1988, and is
planning to attend tomorrow. He’s not sure about the chances of
an Oxford win, but says he “always lives in hope” of a
victory. Oxford’s crew wears dark blue.  Cambridge, whose crew wears light blue, extended its all-
time lead to 80-75 with last year’s win -- its first since 2007.  Brad Crombie, a three-time winner with Cambridge in the
late 1990s and now a managing director at Bank of American
Merrill Lynch in  London , said Oxford’s crew is on average
lighter than usual.  “Oxford is usually proud of their weight advantage so I’m
not sure how this sits with them,” Crombie, who plans on being
at the race, said in an e-mail.  Cambridge has attracted almost 90 percent of wagers,
Ladbrokes Plc said March 23.  “Our book looks pretty one-sided at this stage and we’re
firmly in the Oxford camp,” Ladbrokes spokesman Alex Donohue
said in a statement. “Our only saving grace is the distance
betting indicates it ought to be a close race.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  