-- 
Reichmann’s Canary Wharf Vision Is at Investors’ Cost

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d   a n d   T o m   B i l l
-- 
2011-05-09T17:39:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/canary-wharf-fulfills-reichmann-s-vision-at-expense-of-investors.html
(Corrects seventh paragraph of story published March 25 to
show that 47 percent loss is based on reinvested dividends; adds
 London  Docklands Development Corp. as seller in 20th.)  Canary Wharf  took less than 25
years to fulfill Paul Reichmann’s vision of building a “mini
 Wall Street ” in the U.K. to rival the  City of London  financial
district. Investors are still waiting for their reward.  In the 1980s, the Canadian developer turned a derelict site
on the Isle of Dogs, 3.6 miles (5.8 kilometers) by car from the
 Bank of England , into the home of Britain’s tallest office
tower. Yet  Canary Wharf ’s shares fell 11 percent from their 1999
initial public offering to the end of a takeover battle in 2004.
Since then, shareholders of  Songbird Estates Plc (SBD) , the group that
won control, have lost almost half their money, based on
calculations by Harm Meijer, an analyst at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   “I don’t think anyone has criticized Reichmann, Olympia &
York or Canary Wharf for what they have left as a legacy,” said
Carl Gough, an analyst at London-based Matrix Group Ltd. He
recommends his clients “add” Songbird shares because they are
cheap. “Investors, depending on when they got in or out, have
not enjoyed that bigger-picture success.”  JPMorgan, which employs more than 11,000 people in the U.K.
capital, is moving to Canary Wharf in 2012 from the City of
London, joining firms such as HSBC Holdings Plc,  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  and Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp. Those companies are
paying rents that are at the biggest discount to London’s main
financial district in 13 years, property broker  CB Richard Ellis
Group Inc. (CBG)  estimates.  Earnings Jump  Songbird’s 2010 results, published today, reflect
JPMorgan’s purchase of its new London base for 495 million
pounds ($796 million) and an increase in the value of its
properties. The company said net income more than doubled to
about 278 million pounds and reported net asset value of 187
pence a share, matching analysts’ estimates.  Songbird closed at 141 pence yesterday. That compares with
a closing price of 139.12 pence on Oct. 9, 2009, when Songbird
completed an 895 million-pound share sale.  Land Securities Group
Plc (LAND) , the U.K.’s largest real estate investment trust, climbed 16
percent during that period. British Land Co., the No. 2 REIT,
gained 20 percent.  A Songbird shareholder who bought in 2004 would have lost
47 percent of the total investment, assuming reinvested
dividends, according to Meijer, who has an “overweight” rating
on the stock.  ‘Selective Arithmetic’  “This analysis of performance is selective arithmetic
based on assumptions which are unlikely to affect the vast
majority of investors’ experiences,” Songbird Chairman David Pritchard said in an e-mail today.  Investors who didn’t reinvest their payouts would have
received 105 pounds in cash dividends by the time of the
refinancing in 2009 for every 100 pounds invested at the time of
the takeover, Pritchard said. Shareholders who took part in the
refinancing were showing a profit on their investment, he said.  Songbird paid 658 million pounds of dividends to its
investors in four payments between November 2005 and June 2008,
the company said.  The four biggest investors are Qatar Holding LLC, China
Investment Corp., New York investor Simon Glick and  Morgan
Stanley Real Estate Funds . Together, they own about 72 percent
of the stock.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Glick, British Land, Qatar’s
sovereign wealth fund and Saudi Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal made
up the group that defeated Reichmann and Brascan, now known as
Brookfield Asset Management Inc., in 2004. The Chinese sovereign
fund first disclosed a stake in 2009 after the share sale.  ‘Semi-Private’  “It’s a semi-private company,” said Matthew Churstain, a
London-based analyst at Peel Hunt LLP with a “buy”
recommendation on Songbird. “With all the sovereign and
political risk, investors want more liquid stocks.”  Songbird  has a 69 percent stake in Canary Wharf Group Plc,
the company that owns 17 office buildings in the district and
operates the remaining 18. The properties have space of 15.9
million square feet (1.5 million square meters), equivalent to
slightly more than the area covered by Hyde Park in central
London. Canary Wharf Group has local government approval for
another 8.5 million square feet.  “London still leads New York as a global financial center
and it certainly wouldn’t be if we didn’t have Canary Wharf with
its capacity for big trading floors,” said Stuart Fraser,
chairman of the  City of London’s  policy and resources committee.  Top Spot  London retained its top spot, ahead of New York and
followed by  Hong Kong , in the ninth  Global Financial Services
Index , published March 21. London has ranked top since the
survey, which rates financial centers for banking, asset
management, private banking, insurance, professional services
and regulation, started in 2007.  In December, JPMorgan bought the former offices of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in Canary Wharf to use as its European
headquarters for  investment banking . That means only four
investment banks will still have their main U.K. offices in the
City of London: Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS) , UBS AG and  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   “The JPMorgan deal is a perfect example of why companies
move to Canary Wharf,” George Iacobescu, Canary Wharf Group’s
chief executive officer, said in a telephone interview. “It’s
one of the best three or four buildings in London.”  Diverging Rents  Iacobescu, 65, was first appointed by Reichmann, an 80-
year-old Canadian, to oversee the construction of Canary Wharf
in 1988. He has been CEO of Canary Wharf Group since 1997.  Reichmann, who declined to be interviewed, started
developing the site, now just 12 minutes from the Bank of
 England  using the  Docklands Light Railway , in 1987, taking
advantage of government tax breaks to regenerate rundown areas.  His family company, Olympia & York, which was based in
Toronto, bought the land from the London Docklands Development
Corp., an organization created by the government to revive the
district, Credit Suisse Group AG and Morgan Stanley. The two
banks were among the first tenants to move there in 1991.  G. Ware Travelstead, Credit Suisse’s property adviser,
secured the site’s status as an enterprise zone before selling
the project rights to Reichmann.  A year later, the development was bankrupt. Reichmann got
sufficient support from investors including Glick and Prince
Alwaleed to buy it back in 1995. He sold shares to the public
four years later.  Rents for prime Canary Wharf offices rose 7.2 percent to
37.50 pounds a square foot last year, according to  CB Richard
Ellis , while those in the City climbed 26 percent to 55 pounds.
The 32 percent gap is the widest since 1997.  Former Marshland  Canary Wharf is part of Docklands. The financial district
was originally marshland and, even now, a large part of the area
is undeveloped. Some potential tenants have been put off by the
unfavorable location and limited transport links, according to
property broker  DTZ Holdings Plc. (DTZ)   “Not everyone wants to go there because of where it is,”
said Martin Davis, head of U.K. research at the company.  In contrast to the City of London, offices in Canary Wharf
are usually built to order, which helped keep the vacancy rate
in the offices owned by the company down to 2.9 percent at the
end of last year. That compared with 6.8 percent in the district
known as the Square Mile.  Land Securities, British Land and Canary Wharf itself are
trying to take advantage of rising rents in the City by starting
to construct office properties before lining up tenants.  Transport Links  The  Crossrail  transport link will increase Canary Wharf’s
capacity to handle rail passengers by about 50 percent to
300,000 passengers a day and will cut the journey time to the
City to seven minutes. Canary Wharf is contributing 150 million
pounds to the cost of the 500 million-pound Crossrail station
being built on the estate.  “Crossrail will be a massive help,” said Matrix’s Gough.
“If there is one event that will take the location to the next
stage of its growth, it will be 2017.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Bill in London at   tbill2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 