-- 
Canadian Spot Natural Gas Falls on Break in U.S. Cold Forecast

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-03-25T20:59:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/canadian-spot-natural-gas-falls-on-break-in-u-s-cold-forecast.html
Canadian natural gas for prompt
delivery fell amid forecasts of a break in a cold spell that has
gripped the U.S. North, the biggest consuming region for the
nation’s gas output.  New York ’s high will be 51 degrees Fahrenheit (11 Celsius)
on April 1, about 4 degrees below normal, according to
AccuWeather Inc. Heating demand in the Midwest, which will peak
at 46 percent above normal tomorrow, will taper to 15 percent by
then, according to Belton, Missouri-based forecaster Weather
Derivatives.  “As we get into next week we do see a bit of a moderating
trend,” said Travis Hartman, energy manager and a meteorologist
at MDA EarthSat Weather. “Some warmer temperatures develop in
the West and then move into the mid-continent.”  Gas at the Alliance Pipeline delivery point near  Chicago 
fell 8.97 cents, or 2 percent, to $4.442 per million British
thermal units on the  Intercontinental Exchange . Alliance is an
express line that can carry about 1.5 billion cubic feet a day
to the Midwest from western Canada.  At the Kingsgate point on the border of  Idaho  and British
Columbia, gas fell 8.92 cents to $4.0691 per million Btu,
according to ICE. At Malin,  Oregon , where Canadian gas is traded
for California markets, gas was down 10.27 cents, or 2.4
percent, to $4.1535.  Futures Gain  Gas futures for April delivery gained amid forecasts that
cold weather could return later in the month. After next week’s
warming, cold weather is forecast to return to the northern U.S.  “We see a little bit more variability and some cooler
temperatures in western  Canada  that then filter back into the
northern parts of the U.S.,” MDA EarthSat’s Hartman said.  Alberta gas for April delivery rose 14.75 cents, or 4
percent, to C$3.80 per gigajoule ($3.67 per million British
thermal units) as of 3:45 p.m. New York time, according to  NGX, 
a Canadian Internet market. Gas traded on the exchange is
shipped to users in Canada and the U.S. Northeast, Midwest and
West Coast and is priced on TransCanada’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for April delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose 15.9 cents, or 3.8 percent, to $4.403 per million
Btu. The April contract expires on March 29.  Volume on  TransCanada Corp.’s   Alberta  system, which
collects the output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 15.7
billion cubic feet as of 2:30 p.m. in New York, about 586
million below target. Volume on the system, or linepack, dropped
in the last 24 hours as cold weather in the northern U.S.
prompted buyers to take gas off the system faster than it could
be replaced.  Gas Flow  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 3.21 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.72 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 1.35 billion cubic feet. The system was
forecast to carry 1.55 billion cubic feet today, about 53
percent of its capacity of 2.9 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy’s  British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to  Vancouver  and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 3.02
billion cubic feet at 2:50 p.m. High linepack prompted Spectra
to warn shippers not to add more gas to the system than their
contracts allow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 