-- 
Canadian Dollar Tumbles Most in a Week as Government Falls, Crude Declines

-- B y   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-25T21:25:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/canadian-dollar-poised-for-its-biggest-weekly-gain-in-month-on-crude-oil.html
Canada ’s dollar dropped the most in
more than a week against its U.S. counterpart as opposition
lawmakers toppled the government and crude oil, the nation’s
biggest export, slipped from almost a two-week high .  The Canadian currency weakened against most major peers as
the greenback surged after European leaders cut the startup
capital for a program to provide emergency aid in the euro
region’s debt crisis. It remained lower as Prime Minister
Stephen Harper’s Conservative Party government fell from power
when a majority of lawmakers voted to support a non-confidence
motion, triggering an election to be held as early as May.  “Political uncertainty is a limitation on building
Canadian dollar strength,” said  Shane Enright , executive
director at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC World
Markets unit in Toronto.  Canada’s dollar, also known as the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.5 percent to 98.05
cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from 97.52 cents
yesterday. It weakened as much as 0.8 percent, the biggest
intraday decline since March 16. The loonie earlier gained 0.1
percent. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0199.  The currency appreciated 0.4 percent over the past five
days, the biggest weekly gain since March 4.  Under Canadian parliamentary tradition, approval of a non-
confidence measure leads to the dissolution of the legislature.
The vote was 156-145, with opposition lawmakers from the
Liberal, New Democrat and Bloc Quebecois parties opposed to the
Conservatives.  Crude Oil   The loonie earlier extended a loss against the U.S. dollar
as crude oil for May delivery fell as low as $104.50 a barrel in
New York before closing at $105.52. Crude earlier increased as
much as 0.3 percent to $105.95 a barrel amid concern fighting in
 Libya  would further disrupt supplies. The commodity reached
$106.69 yesterday, the highest since March 7, and had its first
five-day advance in three weeks, gaining 4.4 percent.  “There’s a sentiment in the Canadian dollar where it’s
following crude reasonably closely, and a little bit of bearish
news in crude is turning it negative,” said Lane Newman,
director of foreign exchange at ING Groep NV in  New York .  Canada’s dollar appreciated as much as 0.4 percent versus
the euro to C$1.3769 after European leaders at a summit bowed to
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s call to pare the startup
capital for the future euro emergency fund. The paid-in capital
as of 2013 will be 16 billion euros ($23 billion), less than
half the 40 billion euros in a March 21 agreement reached in an
effort to quell  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Proposal for Fed  The shared currency extended its decline versus most major
counterparts after Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said the improving economy means the
U.S. central bank should detail a plan for withdrawing record
monetary stimulus.  The Fed should set a pace for selling its mortgage and
Treasury holdings in conjunction with raising  interest rates ,
Plosser said today in a speech in New York. The central bank has
held its key rate at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  American gross domestic product grew at a 3.1 percent
annual rate in the fourth quarter, Commerce Department data
showed today. The U.S. is Canada’s biggest trade partner. The
revised increase compares with a 2.8 percent estimate issued
last month and with 2.6 percent growth in the third quarter and
1.7 percent in the second.  The Canadian currency dropped 1 percent over the past month
in the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a
measure of 10 developed-nation currencies. The euro gained 2
percent, while the greenback lost 0.7 percent.  Bonds Decline  Government bonds  fell today, pushing the yield on the two-
year note up two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.73
percent. The price of the 1.75 percent security maturing in
March 2013 decreased 4 cents to C$100.04.  Canada’s opposition lawmakers may form an alliance to
reverse Harper’s corporate tax cuts and overturn plans for more
military spending.  While polls show the governing Conservatives would likely
win the most seats in an election, the main opposition  Liberal
Party  may seek to form an alliance or formal coalition to govern
if Harper, 51, doesn’t win a majority, said Nelson Wiseman, a
political scientist at the  University of Toronto .  Harper said the economy is his top priority because the
global recovery remains “fragile.” He made the comments to
reporters after the non-confidence vote.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Alexandra Harris in New York at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  