-- 
Carbon, Power Advance as German State Election May Hurt Nuclear

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-03-25T16:38:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/carbon-power-advance-as-german-state-election-may-hurt-nuclear.html
European Union carbon-permit and
power prices advanced amid speculation that a regional German
election slated for March 27 may trigger a pullback of nuclear
electricity in the bloc’s biggest economy.  EU carbon allowances for December rose 1.6 percent to 16.81
euros ($23.71) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in  London  as of 3:20 p.m. local time. They’ve dropped 2.4
percent this week, the biggest decline since the week ended Dec.
17. German power for next year rose 0.6 percent to 58.65 euros a
megawatt hour, according to broker prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Germany ’s nuclear policy may be subject to “very material
changes” if the election in Baden-Wuerttemberg installs a
coalition of the Social Democrats and the Greens, Deutsche Bank
AG said. EU carbon jumped 9.5 percent last week, the most in two
years, after Germany took seven reactors with a capacity of
about 7 gigawatts off line following radiation leaks at Japan’s
Fukushima plant caused by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  “If the outcome this weekend is a Social Democrats-Greens
coalition, the chances of the 7 gigawatts never coming back on
is higher and the extensions of the newer reactors are more
likely to be overturned,” Mark Lewis, a Deutsche Bank analyst
in Paris, said today by phone. “This will be a very bullish
scenario for CO2.”  The Greens and their Social Democratic Party allies have a
combined 48 percent in Baden-Wuerttemberg compared with 43
percent for the ruling coalition of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s  Christian Democratic Union  and its Free Democratic
coalition partner, a Forsa poll for stern.de website and RTL
television showed yesterday. That was the third poll in a week
to suggest the Greens may end the CDU’s 58 years in power in
Stuttgart, the state capital.  “I don’t think the market has really grasped how deep the
potential implications of these elections go,” Lewis said.  Election Ruse?  In a speech in parliament yesterday, Economy Minister
Rainer Bruederle denied newspaper reports from this week that
said he views the moratorium as an election ruse. Bruederle was
alleged to have told delegates at an industry congress in Munich
on March 18 that the closure of seven reactors was aimed at
limiting the impact of  Japan ’s nuclear disaster on two German
regional elections this weekend. Bruederle, a Free Democrat,
told lawmakers he was misquoted.  Germany may report its recommendations on the safety of the
offline reactors “in coming weeks,” Bruederle’s chief
spokeswoman Beatrix Brodkorb told reporters today.  Shuttering Reactors  Shuttering the reactors permanently would force the
government to make up for the loss of power by building coal-and
gas-fired  power plants , Claudia Kemfert, chief energy economist
at Berlin’s DIW institute, said in an interview. “That would
cause a big setback for Germany’s CO2 reduction targets.”  Peakload German power may surge 21 percent next week should
the election in Baden-Wuerttemberg this weekend install a
coalition of the  Social Democrats  and the Greens, 70Watt Capital
Management said today.  Peakload German power may rise 15 euros a megawatt hour,
while baseload power may rise 7 euros, said Kris Voorspools,
director of 70Watt Capital, the Luxembourg-based hedge fund that
trades spreads in energy and carbon markets. “Brace for
impact,” he said.  The 2012 peakload contract was at 72.20 euros a megawatt
hour today, up 1 percent, according to broker data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at  at
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  