-- 
McDonald’s Latin America Operator Arcos Dorados Plans $1.08 Billion IPO

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-03-25T14:59:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/mcdonald-s-argentina-operator-arcos-dorados-plans-1-08-billion-share-sale.html
Arcos Dorados Holdings Inc., the
Buenos Aires-based operator of  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  fast food
restaurants in Latin American and the Caribbean, filed for an
initial public offering in the U.S. of as much as $1.08 billion.  The plans call for the sale of 62.5 million shares at a
price between $13 and $15 each, and an additional 9.4 million
shares may be sold as an “over-allotment,” the company said in
a regulatory filing.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co (JPM) ,
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , Itau Unibanco Holding SA and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are
advising on the transaction, according to the filing.  Arcos Dorados will use $150 million from the sale to open
new restaurants and remodel older ones. The company directly
owns 1,292 McDonald’s restaurants, an increase of 18 percent
over the past three years, and oversees another 463 sites owned
by franchisees in Latin American countries including Brazil,
 Argentina , Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Peru and Venezuela.  “What is interesting is that they are using proceeds from
the IPO to spruce up their stores, even open up new
restaurants,” Jack Russo, an analyst who covers McDonald’s for
brokerage firm Edward Jones, said today in a telephone interview
from St. Louis. It’s a sign the company sees “a lot of
opportunities with population growth in Latin America.”  Arcos Dorados bought McDonald’s Corp.’s operations and real
estate in Latin America in 2007 for $700 million. Arcos sales in
2010 totaled $3.02 billion and the company reported earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of $299
million, according to the filing.  Among the sellers of the shares are private equity funds
managed by Gavea Investimentos Ltda, the firm founded by former
 Brazil  central bank President Arminio Fraga, Capital
International Private Equity Funds and DLJ South American
Partners LLC. Private funds will reduce their economic interest
in Arcos Dorados to 33 percent from 60 percent, the filing said.  Woods Staton, Arcos Dorados’ chief executive officer and
controller with a 76.9 percent voting interest, will reduce his
stake to 75.5 percent after the IPO, the filing said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  