-- 
Chavez Ally Humala Says Will Seek to Renegotiate Peruvian Energy Contracts

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-03-25T20:52:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/chavez-ally-humala-says-will-seek-to-renegotiate-peruvian-energy-contracts.html
Peruvian presidential candidate
 Ollanta Humala , a one-time ally of  Venezuela ’s  Hugo Chavez  whose
late surge in the polls is leading investors to dump the
nation’s bonds, said he’d renegotiate energy and mining
contracts with foreign companies if he wins next month’s vote.  Humala, who narrowly lost the previous runoff in 2006 to
President  Alan Garcia , said he favors renegotiating deals with
companies such as Hunt Oil Co.’s $4 billion  Peru LNG  plant and
the $1.6 billion Camisea gas fields project to ensure Peru’s
industry is supplied ahead of fuel exports.  “We must recover sovereignty over Peru’s natural resources
because the multinationals now own our gas and prefer to sell it
abroad,” Humala said March 23 in an interview at his hotel
while campaigning in the city of Trujillo, 480 kilometers (300
miles) northwest of Lima. “There must be a mining windfall tax
as the current model isn’t sustainable.”  Peru ’s currency and bonds dropped this week after polls
showed the 48-year-old Humala closing in on frontrunner
 Alejandro Toledo , forcing investors to reassess the threat of a
nationalist government taking the reins of  South America ’s
sixth-largest economy. Humala trailed Toledo, a former
president, by less than two percentage points in a poll by Lima-
based Datum Internacional published today in Peru 21 newspaper.  Stock Exchange Loss  The Lima General Stock Index fell 1.5 percent to 22,218.87
at 2:39 p.m. New York time. Peru’s currency weakened 0.2 percent
to 2.7885 soles per  U.S. dollar  and the yield on its benchmark
August 2020 bond increased 12 basis points to 6.720, a nine-
month high.  Humala, a former army lieutenant colonel, led 50 soldiers a
decade ago who seized and occupied for a week one of  Southern
Copper Corp. (SCCO) ’s mines. He’s surged in the polls ahead of the
first round of voting April 10 amid pledges to impose a mining
windfall tax and ramp up state control of the country’s natural
resources.  The value of mining exports from Peru, the world’s second-
largest copper producer and No. 1 in silver, rose 27 percent to
$21 billion last year as metals prices surged. A windfall tax
may discourage about $40 billion in future investments by
companies including  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and Cia. de
Minas Buenaventura SA, Peru’s  National Society  of Mining,
Petroleum & Energy has said.  Raising Taxes  “Raising taxes will mean a series of mining projects won’t
happen,” Buenaventura’s Chief Financial Officer Carlos Galvez
said today in a telephone interview. “It would provide the
government with a few years of financing for social projects and
eventually run out for lack of investment.”  Mining companies in Peru, which account for 60 percent of
tax income, currently pay up to a 3 percent royalty. Peru’s
foreign debt is rated investment grade by Moody’s, Standard &
Poors and Fitch Ratings.  “A nationalist government would change the rules of the
game and possibly even the terms of existing contracts,” said
 Enrique Alvarez , head of Latin America fixed-income research at
IDEAglobal in  New York . “By interfering, you would have a very
negative signal sent out to additional foreign investors in
these industries.”  Humala is most popular outside the capital. While
campaigning in Trujillo, street vendors and grease-smeared
mechanics tussled to greet and hug the candidate while chanting
his name.  Lost Runoff  Humala, who lost the 2006 runoff to Garcia by 5 percentage
points, seized Southern Copper’s Toquepala mine in 2000 to
protest the corruption that beset the government of then-
President  Alberto Fujimori , who later fled into exile. Humala
was pardoned by interim President Valentin Paniagua, who
replaced Fujimori, and was sent by Toledo to Paris and  Seoul  as
a military attache.  Humala earned a master’s degree in social studies from
 Lima ’s  Catholic University  and failed to finish a doctorate in
military studies that he began at the Sorbonne in Paris.  During this year’s campaign, he started donning a suit and
has downplayed his friendship with Chavez, saying he won’t
emulate in Peru the Venezuelan leader’s policy of expropriating
companies. Humala said he hasn’t visited Caracas since 2006.  “We need a strong state, but we will respect investment
and private property,” Humala said. “We’re not going to copy
foreign models.”  Humala will find it harder to win a second round runoff,
according to Datum, whose poll showed him losing in an eventual
showdown with any of four candidates including Toledo and former
Finance Minister and banker Pedro Pablo Kuczynski.  Datum’s poll published today surveyed 1,214 people from
March 19 to 23 and had a margin of error of 2.8 percentage
points.  “PERU LNG has had successful and transparent relations
with all of the four administrations that have been chosen by
Peruvians in the elections of the past decade,” Peru LNG
general manager Igor Salazar said today in an e-mailed response
to questions. “We are confident that the next administration
will honor the LNG contracts and continue the support of the
PERU LNG project.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 