-- 
China’s Baidu Rises to Record in U.S. on Report of New Products

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-03-26T04:45:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/china-s-baidu-rises-to-all-time-high-on-report-of-new-products.html
Baidu Inc., owner of  China ’s most
popular online search engine, rose to a record in U.S. trading
after reports about new services the company is developing.  The company said it is testing Web browsing software for
personal computers, following a report earlier this week that it
is planning to develop a mobile operating system. Sina Corp.,
which owns the Twitter-like Weibo in China, also jumped to a
record on speculation it will gain users after Google Inc. said
China’s government is blocking its e-mail service.  “There’s an opportunity to expand beyond the search
business for Baidu by going to mobile,” said  Aaron Kessler , an
analyst at ThinkEquity LLC in  San Francisco . The “growth
potential is big right now in this core search market” and the
new products are “still leveraging their search capabilities.”  The browser may put Baidu in direct competition with
Microsoft Corp.’s Internet Explorer and Google’s Chrome. Chief
Executive Officer Robin Li is expanding Baidu, also China’s
biggest Internet company by market value, in social-networking
and video after it took search-engine market share last year
when Google moved its search service out of mainland China.  Baidu’s American depositary receipts rose 1.1 percent to
$134.92 as of 4:30 p.m. in New York yesterday, the highest
closing price on record. The shares have risen for five straight
days, bringing the weekly gain to 12 percent, the most in six
months.  The  Nasdaq Composite Index (CCMP)  advanced 3.8 percent this week,
the biggest five-day gain since July 2010.  Internet Gainers  Sina, China’s third-most visited website, surged 17 percent
this week, leading gains among the nation’s Internet companies
after Google said it discovered Gmail was blocked by the Chinese
government earlier in the week.  NetEase.com (NTES)  Inc. rose 7.2
percent in the past five days while  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  gained 6.2
percent.  “There’s still a lot of interest in Sina’s Weibo product.
That has primarily been the driver for the company’s
performance,” ThinkEquity’s Kessler said.  Baidu’s new desktop browser is being tested internally
among employees and “dovetails” with the company’s “box-
computing” technology, spokesman Kaiser Kuo said, without
disclosing when it will be offered to the public. Earlier this
week, he declined to confirm or deny a March 23 Financial Times
report saying the company is planning to develop a “light
operating system” for mobile devices.  Baidu accounted for 75.5 percent of China’s search-engine
market by revenue in the fourth quarter, rising from 73 percent
in the previous three months, according to research company
Analysys International. Google’s share dropped to 19.6 percent
from 21.6 percent, the research firm said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  