-- 
Chinese Central Bank Sees European Debt Crisis Threat to Global Recovery

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-25T11:17:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/china-s-central-bank-sees-european-debt-crisis-threat-to-global-recovery.html
Europe ’s debt crisis is a threat to
the global economic recovery and sovereign risks in some
countries could still emerge, China’s central bank said today.  Concerns about European government debt and geopolitical
risks may provide support to a “relatively weak”  U.S. dollar 
this year, the People’s Bank of China said in an outlook on
international financial markets posted on its website today.  The central bank’s report reflects concerns that European
governments may struggle to quell the region’s debt crisis as
they spar over an emergency aid system. Portugal’s sovereign
ratings were cut today by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings,
threatening to deepen the debt woes of a nation that may need a
bailout of as much as 70 billion euros ($99 billion).  “Europe’s sovereign debt crisis will continue to be a
threat to the world’s recovery,” the People’s Bank of  China 
said in its 125-page report. “There are risks that the crisis
could spread further.”  Europe’s problems won’t be resolved until a number of
countries restructure their debt and clean up their banks’
balance sheets, Citigroup Inc. chief economist  Willem Buiter 
said in a Bloomberg Television interview on March 17. Greece and
Ireland will probably need debt restructuring although not Spain,
he said.  China’s Premier Wen Jiabao and central bank officials have
expressed their support for, and confidence in, Europe and the
euro amid the crisis which has seen Greece and Ireland agree to
bailouts from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund 
totaling 195 billion euros.  Confidence in Europe  Wen said on March 21 he felt “optimistic about the  U.S.
economy , about the European economy and the whole world
economy.”  China has had a policy of increasing purchases of European
debt and is seeking to deepen ties with Portugal, Foreign
Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu said in Beijing yesterday. Deputy
central bank governor Yi Gang said in January that China has
confidence in European financial markets and the euro.  China holds the world’s largest foreign-currency reserves
of $2.85 trillion and is the biggest overseas holder of  U.S.
Treasuries .  “The U.S. dollar may be relatively weak in 2011 because of
a slower U.S. economic recovery, low  interest rates  and the
nation’s double deficit,” the central bank said today. Still,
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and the risk of spreading
political instability may “help the dollar perform strongly
periodically, amid an overall weak trend,” it said.  Overly Loose Policies  The central bank reiterated the Chinese government’s
concern that “continued and strengthened” quantitative easing
in some countries could have a “relatively large” impact on
developing nations whose economies have already recovered from
the financial crisis.  Governments should avoid implementing policies that have a
negative impact on other countries and should pay attention to
risks that may arise from overly loose monetary policies, the
report said. It also urged governments to avoid competitive
depreciations of their currencies.  The PBOC, which is battling to contain inflation that’s
exceeded government targets for the past eight months, said
rising crude oil, grain and other commodity prices pose risks to
the world economy.  Inflation risks and political conflict will support demand
for gold this year and prices are likely to remain high even as
the risk of a decline shouldn’t be ignored, today’s report said.  --Huang Zhe,  John Liu ,  Kevin Hamlin  and Regina Tan in Beijing,
Sophie Leung in  Hong Kong . Editors: Nerys Avery, Ken McCallum
