-- 
China Swaps Head for Weekly Advance on Rate-Rise Speculation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-25T02:27:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/china-swaps-head-for-weekly-advance-on-rate-rise-speculation.html
China ’s interest-rate swaps headed
for their biggest weekly advance in more than a month on
speculation rising prices will prompt the central bank to lift
interest rates.  The People’s Bank of China withdrew a total of 103 billion
yuan ($15.7 billion) from the financial system this week, the
most since last April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
China will make more use of price tools and interest rates will
be at the “core” of that strategy, Zhang Xiaohui, director of
the monetary policy department at the central bank,  wrote  in a
commentary posted on its website yesterday.  “The  consumer price index  may hit a new high in March,
which may result in another interest-rate hike,” said Guo Caomin, a bond analyst at Industrial Bank Co. in  Shanghai . The
central bank may raise both  interest rates  and the reserve-
requirement ratio for banks next month, he said.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, gained six basis
points this week to 3.27 percent as of 10 a.m. in Shanghai,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was the biggest
weekly advance since Feb. 18. The contracts were little changed
from yesterday.  China’s central bank has lifted benchmark lending and
deposit rates three times since the middle of October. The
monetary authority ordered banks to set aside more cash as
reserves on March 18, the third time it has done so this year.  Rising Prices  Consumer prices rose 4.9 percent in February from a year
earlier, exceeding the government’s annual target of 4 percent,
the statistics bureau said on March 11. Prices gained 4.9
percent in January.  The seven-day repurchase rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped 51 basis points to 2.04 percent
today, the lowest level in a week, according to a weighted
average rate compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.
The rate gained 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, from
a week ago.  The yield on the 3.83 percent Treasury bond due November
2017 rose one basis point this week to 3.68 percent, according
to the Interbank Funding Center. The rate was unchanged today.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Andrew Janes, Ven Ram  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 