-- 
Cooling Delhi Hospital Using Heat to Cut Power Sees India Partner Germany

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-25T07:48:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/cooling-delhi-hospital-using-heat-to-cut-power-sees-india-partner-germany.html
India  and  Germany  are using a  New
Delhi  hospital to demonstrate how heat harnessed for cooling can
help contain surging electricity demand in the world’s second-
fastest growing major economy.  Air conditioners at the state-run Jai Prakash Narayan Apex
Trauma Center, which currently draw electricity from the
transmission grid, are being replaced with more efficient
absorption chillers that run on waste heat from a generator,
according to a project document prepared by the German
government’s  Gesellschaft fuer Internationale Zusammenarbeit
GmbH  development agency and India’s Bureau of Energy Efficiency.  Rising prosperity and demand for goods including air
conditioners and televisions has increased power consumption in
India, where electricity use per capita rose almost 30 percent
since 2002, according to  Central Electricity Authority data .  More than 35 percent of future power generated in India may
be consumed for cooling, M.S. Unnikrishnan, chief executive
officer of  Thermax Ltd. (TMX) , an Indian power-equipment maker, said
in an October interview.  The hospital project in New Delhi, where average summer
temperatures exceed 40 degrees Celsius (104 Fahrenheit), will
install a tri-generation plant that can use natural gas to
simultaneously produce electricity, heat and cool air.  That technology could be used in thousands of hospitals,
hotels, airports, department stores and technology centers
nationwide, and the hospital plant may open the way for at least
100 similar projects in the next five years, the document said.
Germany’s Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen plans to
inaugurate the project on March 31.  Air conditioner sales are expected to grow 25 percent a
year over the next five years assuming  India’s economy  sustains
growth of 8 percent, according to a 2010 report by  OEM Update ,
an online trade website for India’s manufacturing industry.  India’s $1.3 trillion economy will expand as much as 9.25
percent in the year starting April 1, the most since 2008, the
government forecast last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 