-- 
Cows in Japan Barred From Grazing as Radiation Leaks From Fukushima Plant

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-03-25T07:48:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/cows-in-japan-barred-from-grazing-as-radiation-leaks-from-fukushima-plant.html
Japan  has asked farmers to keep
cows and cattle in barns as radioactive contamination of milk
spread from Fukushima prefecture, where high radiation levels
and fires have hampered repairs of a crippled nuclear plant.  “To prevent milk contamination, we are advising farmers
that cows should be barred from grazing, kept inside barns and
fed with grass harvested before the nuclear plant accident,”
said Mitsuhiro Honda at the milk and dairy products division of
the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. “We are
not concerned about the safety of beef as the meat now on the
market came from animals born more than two years ago.”  Japan has restricted raw-milk shipments from Fukushima and
neighboring Ibaraki prefecture after tainted products were
discovered through random testing. Repair work at the site of
the worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl in 1986 has been
plagued by explosions, fires and leaks of toxic material. Tokyo
Electric Power Co. plans to drain radioactive water from the
turbine building of the No. 3 unit at the damaged nuclear plant,
where two workers suffered radiation burns yesterday.  Shoppers in Tokyo rushed to buy  mineral water  and soy milk,
ignoring government assurances that food and tap water are safe.
Countries from Australia to the U.S. restricted food imports
from Japan on fears of radiation.  Eggs, Pork  “We don’t see eggs and pork at high risk of radioactive
contamination because chickens and pigs are raised within
facilities that shield them from the air and rain,” Takenobu
Aida at the ministry’s livestock production and feed divisions,
said in a phone interview. “The products should be safe if
animals are fed with uncontaminated feed and water.”  Japan produces about 24 million metric tons of livestock
feed a year using imported grains such as U.S. corn and soybeans.  The health ministry asked each prefectural governor last
week to start testing agricultural and marine food products for
possible contamination, as the nation struggles to stem
pollution from the Fukushima plant.  The ministry tentatively set tolerable levels of
radioactivity for each product. For milk, the level is set at
200 becquerels per kilogram of radioactive cesium and 300
becquerels per kilogram of radioactive iodine. Japan’s Food
Safety Commission is assessing the tentative standards for
possible revision as early as next week.  ‘Safety Margin’  “The first thing to keep in mind is that norms for
contaminated produce are set with a huge safety margin,” Sergei
Panchenko, senior researcher with the Russian Academy of
Sciences, said in a telephone interview.  The contamination that has been reported in Ibaraki
prefecture is above the norms, but doesn’t actually pose a
threat to human health, he said.  Beef purchases by Japan, the third-largest importer, will
probably climb as radiation leaks from the stricken power plant
hurt consumption of local foods including fish, Australian
producer groups said.  “Seafood makes up a really large portion of their protein
consumption, so they will be looking at filling that protein gap
somehow,” said Tim McRae, economist with Meat & Livestock
 Australia  from Sydney. Japan is also the largest pork importer.  The detection of cobalt, iodine and cesium in the sea near
the crippled plant north of Tokyo this week hit fish sales in
the world’s second-biggest seafood market and spurred consumers
to seek meat as an alternative.  Japanese nuclear safety officials said today the reactor
core at one unit of the damaged nuclear plant may be cracked and
leaking radiation.  “What is more dangerous today is the fear-mongering around
the situation,” said Igor Osipiants, director of the Technical
Radiation Crisis Center at the Russian Academy of Sciences.
“Let’s not make radiation a scarecrow. There’s always natural
radiation, it’s like noise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in  Tokyo  at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  