-- 
Deutsche Bahn Push for U.K. Rail Supremacy Upset by Failed Bids

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-03-25T11:34:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/deutsche-bahn-push-for-u-k-rail-supremacy-upset-by-failed-bids.html
Deutsche Bahn  AG’s plan to become
a major player in the U.K. rail market is under threat after the
German state train company failed to make the shortlist to run
Britain’s premier long-distance line and a key commuter network.  Deutsche Bahn fell at the first hurdle in a bid to provide
express trains from London to  Scotland , with the four companies
selected including French state railway SNCF, its main European
rival. Dutch operator NV Nederlandse Spoorwegen was shortlisted
for the same franchise and a second to run trains to Liverpool
Street Station in the U.K. capital’s financial district.  The German company bid through U.K. bus and train operator
Arriva, bought last year for 1.6 billion pounds ($2.5 billion)
to accelerate its transformation into a pan-European transport
group. Yesterday’s reversal means it’s still without either a
premium inter-city route or major commuter service to  London .  “You’d have thought that Deutsche Bahn would have done well
in selling the ‘vision thing,’ which is an important part of
these bids,” said Christian Wolmar, a London-based transport
historian and the author of ‘Broken Rails,’ an analysis of the
U.K.’s train network. “Maybe they took their eye off the ball.”  In addition to SNCF and Nederlandse Spoorwegen, incumbent
operator Virgin Trains, owned by U.K. billionaire  Richard Branson , was selected to bid for the London-Glasgow West Coast
line, together with  FirstGroup Plc (FGP) , which runs trains on the
route from London Paddington to western  England  and Wales.  14-Year Deal  The contract for the network, which also links the cities
of Birmingham, Manchester and Liverpool, runs for 14 years from
2012. Consultation on the franchise requirements closes on April
21, with a formal invitation to tender to be issued in May.  Also shortlisted for the Greater Anglia route from eastern
England to Liverpool Street in the City, are  Go-Ahead Group Plc (GOG) ,
an operator of commuter trains south and northwest of London,
and  Stagecoach Group Plc (SGC) , the owner of South West Trains, which
serves the capital’s Waterloo station, Britain’s busiest.  “It’s disappointing not to progress in these bids,” said
Francis King, a spokesman for Deutsche Bahn’s Arriva division.
“We await a briefing from the Department for Transport and will
develop our plans for subsequent franchise opportunities.”  Deutsche Bahn is seeking to expand in the U.K., the biggest
European rail network not under state control, as it challenges
SNCF for primacy in the region’s liberalizing transport market.  The Berlin-based company’s U.K. business includes Arriva’s
Welsh services and wide-ranging  CrossCountry franchise , together
with the Chiltern Trains route from London to Birmingham and a
50 percent stake in London Overground. It also owns Britain’s
biggest rail-cargo operator.  Track Record  Deutsche Bahn’s bids may have been hurt by its lack of a
convincing track record running comparable services in the U.K.,
according to rail author Wolmar.  “We don’t know that they necessarily put forward bad bids,
because somebody has to be excluded from the shortlist however
good the overall quality,” he said. “But Arriva hasn’t got a
great record at CrossCountry. It’s a difficult franchise because
it spans a huge area, but they haven’t done a great job.”  SNCF, or Société Nationale des Chemins de fer Français,
 Europe ’s biggest rail company, is making its West Coast bid via
the  Keolis SA  division, which runs trains and buses in 12
countries and recorded 2.2 billion passenger journeys in 2010.  Keolis UK CEO Alistair Gordon said the unit was “delighted
to qualify” for the next round of the competition.  The bid from the Abellio arm of Nederlandse Spoorwegen
comes after the Dutch company’s investment in the Merseyrail and
Northern Rail franchises via a 50:50 venture with U.K.-based
Serco Group Plc, operator of London’s Docklands Light Railway.  Branson Plan  Branson’s Virgin Trains, which has run the West Coast line
since 1997, had campaigned for the franchise to be extended to
20 or 30 years, and the entrepreneur said in 2009 he’d spend 1
billion pounds on improvements even under a shorter deal,
permitting Pendolino tilting trains to run at 140 miles an hour.  “We intend to submit a very strong bid,” said Tony Collins,
chief executive officer of London-based Virgin Rail Group, in
which Branson has a 51 percent stake, with the rest owned by
Stagecoach. “We have plenty of innovative ideas.”  Britain’s other main north-south route, the East Coast
line, is under state control after  National Express Group Plc (NEX) 
surrendered the contract as the slump crimped demand. Branson,
whose Virgin Group is closely held, once bid for the line and
also ran CrossCountry until 2007, when it was awarded to Arriva.  FirstGroup, Britain’s biggest rail operator, will make
“compelling and innovative proposals” in its West Coast bid, CEO
Tim O’Toole said in a statement. The company runs the ScotRail
and TransPennine franchises, as well as the Great Western
service criticized by U.K. lawmakers for its crowded railcars.  Italian state rail operator Trenitalia also bid and is
seeking clarity on the reasons for its exclusion, according to a
spokesman who declined to be identified. The company said Jan.
18 that the West Coast route was among contracts it was chasing
in conjunction with French utility Veolia Environnement SA.  Renfe of  Spain , also absent from the shortlist, didn’t
respond to requests for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.ne   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  