-- 
DirectBuy Bonds Plunge 23% Two Months After Private Offering Via JPMorgan

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 
2011-03-25T17:20:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/directbuy-bonds-plunge-23-two-months-after-private-offering-via-jpmorgan.html
Bonds of DirectBuy Holdings Inc.,
the consumer club being sued over its sales practices, plunged
23 percent after the company told investors new memberships
declined and the chief financial officer quit.  The $335 million of 12 percent notes due in February 2017
dropped as much as 31.7 cents on the dollar to 67.5 cents March
23 before climbing back to 76.5 cents yesterday, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The company sold the second-lien debt
through a private offering led by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in
January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  DirectBuy, based in Merrillville,  Indiana , franchises
stores in the U.S. and charges customers membership fees from
$2,900 to $7,000 in exchange for the right to buy appliances,
furniture, electronics and other household items at wholesale
prices. The company disclosed on a March 22 call with investors
that Chief Financial Officer Mark Boggess resigned and new
memberships declined for the second straight quarter, according
to an analyst note by Knight Capital Group Inc.’s Kevin McCormick.  The call, limited to bondholders, qualified prospective
investors and certain securities analysts, “reportedly went
poorly, with disclosures including weak membership sales, a
lower club count and the resignation of the CFO helping pull
bonds down sharply,” McCormick said in the note distributed
yesterday. He declined to discuss results further when contacted
by telephone and said he wasn’t on DirectBuy’s conference call.  Boggess didn’t return three telephone calls seeking
comment. Michael Georgeff, a public relations specialist for
DirectBuy, didn’t return two phone calls. Jamie Elias, a partner
at DirectBuy’s Miami-based owner Trivest Partners LP, didn’t
return two e-mails or three phone calls.  The DirectBuy Model  Most of DirectBuy’s revenue is derived from its share of
new and renewal membership fees from franchisees, Moody’s
Investors Service said in a Jan. 7 note announcing it rated the
bonds B2, five levels below investment grade, with a “stable”
outlook. The business is closely linked to home sales and
renovations, the Moody’s analysts wrote.  New membership sales have declined since the fiscal year
ended July 2007, McCormick said in his note. They fell 33
percent to 73,778 in the fiscal year ended in July; dropped 21
percent for the quarter ended October 31 compared with the
previous year, McCormick said. “We understand” they fell again
in the period ending Jan. 31, he said.  Another company conference call is scheduled for March 28,
McCormick said.  Links to Housing  “DirectBuy’s appeal to prospective new members is
generally the ability to recoup the membership fee fairly
quickly via a large purchase, which is typically home
improvement oriented,” Moody’s analysts led by Charlie O’Shea,
a senior analyst, said in the January statement. “The ties to
the overall condition of the housing market are reasonably
significant, resulting in a relatively high risk profile given
the current weak housing market.”  The Moody’s analysts didn’t respond to a request for
comment.  Purchases of new U.S. homes unexpectedly declined in
February to the slowest pace on record and prices dropped to the
lowest level since December 2003, the Commerce Department said
March 23.  In U.S. District Court in  Connecticut , plaintiffs in a
class-action suit filed in April 2009 said DirectBuy receives
“tens of millions of dollars in ‘kickbacks’ from manufacturers
and suppliers out of the purchase prices paid for products by
DirectBuy members, thereby resulting in class members paying
more than the ‘direct’ price.”  Dueling Lawsuits  U.S. Magistrate Judge William Garfinkel gave preliminary
approval to a settlement in December in which DirectBuy didn’t
admit wrongdoing.  West Virginia  sued  DirectBuy in January in civil court
under the state’s consumer credit and protection act, claiming
it induced customers to buy memberships with “high-pressure
sales practices” and “deceptions and falsehoods,” according
to the complaint in Kanawha County Circuit Court by state
Attorney General Darrell McGraw.  “DirectBuy pressures consumers with its ‘now or never
tactic,’” McGraw’s office said in a Jan. 26 statement.
“DirectBuy warns consumers that anyone who leaves the premises
without joining the club will be banned from joining forever.
This threat is false, misleading, and unconscionable.”  Connecticut Steps In  Garfinkel, the federal judge in Connecticut, ruled on Feb.
1 that the  West Virginia  lawsuit violates the preliminary
settlement order and enjoined the state from pursuing its
claims. West Virginia filed an objection to the decision.  Trivest, a private equity firm, purchased DirectBuy for an
undisclosed amount in November 2007.  Debtwire reported Boggess’s resignation on March 22 without
citing the source of its information.  The cases are: Wilson et al v. DirectBuy Inc. et al,
09-CV-00590, United States District Court, Connecticut ( New
Haven ) and State of West Virginia v. DirectBuy Inc., Circuit
Court of Kanawha County, West Virginia.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  