-- 
Drugmakers Slow to Confirm Cancer Drugs Work May Face FDA Fines

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-03-25T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/drugmakers-slow-to-confirm-cancer-drugs-work-may-face-fda-fines.html
Drugmakers such as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  that
win early U.S. approval of promising cancer treatments may face
fines up to $10 million if they take too long to confirm
effectiveness in follow-up studies, Food and Drug Administration
officials said.  The FDA may also start requiring that such trials be
under way before a drug can win expedited approval, John Johnson,
a clinical team leader at the agency’s Division of Drug Oncology
Products, and colleagues said in a report published online today
in the  Journal of the National Cancer Institute .  The agency’s accelerated-approval program came under
scrutiny last year as New York-based Pfizer, the world’s biggest
drugmaker,  withdrew its leukemia drug Mylotarg after 10 years
on the U.S. market and the FDA moved to revoke its 2008
clearance of Basel, Switzerland-based  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Avastin
for breast cancer. A drug can be pulled if subsequent studies
don’t show it prolongs survival or improves quality of life.  “Indications that have received accelerated approval
should not be on the market for unacceptably prolonged intervals
in the absence of completed confirmatory trials,” Johnson and
his colleagues wrote.  Follow-up studies had yet to be completed as of last July
for 14 accelerated approvals granted in the past 12 years,
according to the report. Among them was the 1999 clearance of
Pfizer’s arthritis drug Celebrex to treat a rare colon condition
and a 2005 approval of London-based GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s
Arranon for lymphoma, the authors said. Pfizer acquired Celebrex
as part of its 2003 purchase of Pharmacia Corp.  Faster Studies Sought  The agency could confirm efficacy faster by requiring that
such trials be in progress before granting an accelerated
approval, the report said.  “Such a requirement would ensure that accelerated approval
is part of the development plan of a drug for a new indication
and not an afterthought,” the authors wrote.  A 2007 law authorized the FDA to fine drugmakers as much as
$10 million for “lack of due diligence” in conducting trials
to confirm the benefits of drugs that win accelerated approval,
according to the report.  “The FDA believes that this will be an effective new tool
for dealing with lack of due diligence,” Johnson and his
colleagues wrote.  The agency granted accelerated approval to 47 new uses for
35 drugs between December 1992 and July 2010, according to the
report. Three of those treatments, including Mylotarg, were
withdrawn after studies failed to confirm they worked.  Avastin Hearing  The FDA in December proposed rescinding its approval for
Roche’s top-selling drug Avastin for  breast cancer  after follow-
up studies found the drug increased side effects without
prolonging survival. Roche plans to tell the agency at a June
hearing that breast cancer should remain an approved use for the
drug in combination with chemotherapy, the company’s Genentech
unit said last month.  Twenty-six of the FDA’s 47 early approvals were later
converted to regular FDA clearance after studies confirmed
clinical benefits, according to the report. The average time
between accelerated approval and regular approval for those
treatments was 4.7 years.  “The accelerated approval process has been successful in
making promising new drugs available to cancer patients sooner
than they would have been if they had undergone regular
approval,” Johnson and his colleagues wrote.  The amount of time saved through the accelerated-approval
process isn’t clear from the FDA officials’ report,  Susan
Ellenberg , a professor of biostatistics at the  University of
Pennsylvania  School of Medicine, in Philadelphia, said in an
accompanying editorial.  The regular drug-approval process could take less time than
the separate sets of initial studies and follow-ups required for
an accelerated approval, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 