-- 
Dying Mitterrand Mulls Legacy, Toys With Pyramid: Paris Stage

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-03-25T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/dying-mitterrand-ponders-his-legacy-toys-with-louvre-pyramid-paris-stage.html
It happened to  Charles de Gaulle ,
 George W. Bush  and  Tony Blair : They all morphed into stage
characters. Now, it’s Francois Mitterrand’s turn.  In “Adagio -- Mitterrand, His Secret and His Death,” a
production at the  Odeon Theater  in Paris, the late French
president reminisces about his career, wonders about his place
in history and confesses that, though agnostic, he believes in
some form of eternal life.  Mitterrand died in 1996 of prostate cancer -- a condition
he hid for many years, feeding false media health reports.  In previous plays, Olivier Py, author and director of
“Adagio,” preached the gospel of the “theater of excess,”
falling somewhere between (the very Catholic) Paul Claudel and
(the very gay) Jean Genet. His play “La Servante,” performed
in 1995 at the  Avignon festival , lasted 24 hours.  “Adagio” is over in 2 hours and 20 minutes. It’s based on
Mitterrand’s speeches, writings and other biographical sources.
Mitterrand (Philippe Girard) is the only fully developed
character; the others are little more than walk-on parts. Six
actors play some 30 roles.  Dr. Claude Gubler, the president’s physician who published
a much-reviled book about his patient, also appears as Jack Lang
and Robert Badinter, respectively ministers of culture and
justice under Mitterrand. German Chancellor Helmut Kohl
resurfaces as Alija Izetbegovic, the Bosnian president, and the
author Elie Wiesel.  On opening night, several former ministers were present.
What they thought about their alter egos onstage is a mystery.  Miniature Pyramid  Py’s Mitterrand is an old-fashioned socialist whose heart
goes out to workers, the poor and the homeless. He hates the
brutality of a capitalism that only cares about shareholders.  Playing with a miniature of the  Louvre  pyramid, one of his
grand architectural projects, he’s modest about his legacy: “Do
we remember who was president when Proust wrote his novel?”  Yet he’s proud of having abolished the death penalty.
Compared with his successors, he muses, he might not have done
too badly: “After me, there will only be bookkeepers.”  He also speaks about his habit of presenting globes to his
hosts on state visits: For Arab recipients,  Israel  was removed
and replaced with “Palestine.”  It’s one of the few anecdotes in the play. Most of all it’s
a serious, almost didactic attempt to present Mitterrand as a
great statesman. Chamber music in the background, played by a
string quartet, emphasizes its lofty purpose.  Gorbachev’s Hat  What’s missing are the shadier aspects of Mitterrand’s
career. His erstwhile opposition to the reunification of  Germany 
is pinned on  Mikhail Gorbachev  who, wearing a fur hat, implores
him: “Help me to avert it!”  Wiesel questions Mitterrand about his work for the Vichy
government and his friendship with Rene Bousquet, Petain’s chief
of police who organized the roundup of Jews in 1942. Mitterrand
brushes him off with vague answers.  With his bald head, toothy smile and choppy way of talking,
Girard comes reasonably close to the original -- closer anyway
than  Colin Firth  to the stammering King George.  The set (Pierre-Andre Weitz) mirrors the play’s documentary
approach. Naked stairs lead to a revolving backdrop,
successively revealing Mitterrand’s library, a room at the Val-
de-Grace Hospital, the  Berlin Wall  and the military cemetery at
Verdun.  If you like political theater as high drama, you’ll
probably find Py’s play too dry. If you don’t mind a two-hour
lesson in recent French history, this might be for you.  Rating: **.  “Adagio” runs at the Theatre de l’Odeon through April 10.
Information:  http://www.theatre-odeon.eu  or +33-1-4485-4040.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 