-- 
Meat Inflation Accelerates as Demand Grows for U.S. Beef, Pork

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-03-25T19:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/meat-inflation-accelerates-as-demand-grows-for-u-s-beef-pork.html
Meat prices are rising in the U.S.
at a faster annual rate than forecast a month ago, as increased
demand for pork and beef exports erode inventories and high feed
costs discourage livestock producers from expanding herds.  The retail cost of meats will increase 4.5 percent to 5.5
percent this year, including a gain of as much a 7 percent for
pork, the most of any major food group, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said today in a  report . Beef prices will rise as
much as 5.5 percent, or 1 percentage point more than the
government forecast on Feb. 24.  “Demand just appears to be the driving force,” said
 Dennis Smith , a senior account executive at Archer Financial
Services Inc. in Chicago. “Domestic and export demand are both
improving rather dramatically.”  U.S. exporters shipped 17 percent more pork to overseas
buyers in January compared with a year earlier, and beef sales
were up 24 percent, according to the most-recent USDA data. As
demand increases, cattle and hog producers have been reluctant
to expand herds because the cost of corn, the primary livestock
feed, has jumped 94 percent in the past year.  Meat prices are rising faster than overall food costs at
supermarkets and restaurants, which the USDA said today will
increase 3 percent to 4 percent, the fastest since a 5.8 percent
jump in 2008 that was the most in 28 years.  Global food prices rallied 25 percent in 2010 and set a
record in February, according to the  United Nations . The higher
prices contributed to riots in North Africa and the Middle East
that toppled leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia .  Meat Inflation  “As commodity prices and input costs have risen over the
past nine months, beef and pork prices are now significantly
higher than in 2010,” Ephraim Leibtag, a USDA economist, said
in a  note  accompanying the report. “Increased inflation for
beef and pork products is expected in the first half of 2011.”  Wholesale pork in the U.S. has climbed 28 percent in the
past year and is the highest since August, while wholesale-
choice beef jumped 14 percent, government data show.  Hog futures rose today to the highest price since at least
April 1986 on the  Chicago  Mercantile Exchange, and cattle prices
neared a record. The “outrageous” cost of corn is limiting
gains in meat supply, Archer Financial’s Smith said.  “We are not really expanding red-meat production all that
much, not like you would normally see when you have prices at
such extremely high levels,” said  Dan Vaught , the owner of
Vaught Futures Insights in Altus,  Arkansas . “A lot of that
simply goes back to the cost of feed.”  Retail-beef prices rose 1.9 percent last month and are 11
percent above February 2010, according to today’s report. Pork
rose 1 percent in February and is 8.9 percent above a year ago,
the USDA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  