-- 
ECB Interest-Rate Boost May Spur Default, Brown Brothers Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-03-25T15:00:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/ecb-rate-boost-may-spur-default-brown-brothers-harriman-says-tom-keene.html
A strong euro will boost the risk
of default in countries such as  Portugal  and threaten  Europe ’s
monetary union as the region’s central bank prepares to raise
 interest rates , according to Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.  “We are going to see some kind of default -- clearly,
markets and investors are not going to get closure until some
sort of debt restructuring happens,”  Lena Komileva , London-
based global head of G-10 strategy at the firm, said in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene. “The
strong euro will only increase the risk of default over time.”  The euro has gained 2 percent over the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indices, a
measure of 10 developed-nation currencies. It has rallied on
speculation the  European Central Bank  will raise its key rate in
April to curb rising prices. Inflation in February was 2.4
percent, exceeding the ECB’s 2 percent limit for a third month.
The shared currency fell 0.2 percent today to $1.4147.  Ireland, Greece and Portugal could “become more solvent”
if Europe’s monetary union accepted a higher inflation rate of 3
percent to 5 percent and a weaker euro to reduce the value of
unsustainable sovereign-debt levels, Komileva said. Without a
falling 17-nation currency, she added, the currency union may
fracture.  “We’ll either have the euro at current levels, and the
euro zone not remaining in its entirety over the coming
decade,” she said. “Or we’re going to have the euro cheapen
much further as default risks ultimately are priced in.”  European leaders at a summit in Brussels that ended today
cut the startup capital for the future euro emergency-aid
mechanism.  Fitch Ratings  and Standard & Poor’s yesterday
downgraded Portugal’s sovereign-credit ratings.  The euro has strengthened against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts this year. Komileva predicted it will gain versus
the dollar to $1.44 before falling below $1.38 by year-end.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  