-- 
Lehman U.K. Mortgage Bond Ruling May Trigger $14 Billion Default Requests

-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-03-25T09:52:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/lehman-u-k-mortgage-bond-ruling-may-trigger-14-billion-default-requests.html
Investors in about $14 billion of
U.K. commercial mortgage-backed securities may claim the
securities are in default because of a principle established at
a British court earlier this month.  The Court of Appeal in London on March 7 ruled that
residential mortgage bonds issued by a unit of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  were solvent, saying asset values could recover
before the notes come due as late as 2045. Commercial property
bonds typically have shorter maturities, making them subject to
default claims, said Bank of America Corp. analyst Mark Nichol.  More than a third of commercial mortgage-backed securities
denominated in pounds mature by 2017, according to  Standard &
Poor’s , while prices of U.K. stores and offices are still
recovering from a 35 percent drop from their 2007 peak. Senior
investors in at least 23 commercial property backed deals may be
able to lodge default claims, Bank of America data show.  “Commercial mortgage-backed securities are the asset class
most affected” by the court ruling, said  Conor Downey,  a
partner at law firm Paul Hastings Janofsky & Walker LLP in
 London . “Many of the deals mature in the next three to five
years and, in the secondary market, the experts see little
chance of recovery over this time,” said Downey, who has
advised firms including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank
AG on asset-backed transactions.  ‘Point of No Return’  BNY Corporate Trustee Services Ltd., the trustee of
Lehman’s Eurosail-UK 2007-3BL Plc, brought the original case
after holders of $405 million of class A3 notes requested an
event of default because of the issuer’s insolvency. If they’d
won, the investors would have been repaid at the same time as
the more senior class A1 and A2 noteholders,  Fitch Ratings  said.  The solvency of an issuer should be based on “commercial
reality and on commercial fairness,” according to the Eurosail
ruling this month. The closer the notes are to maturity, the
easier it is to see if the assets will cover liabilities, or if
the notes are at a “point of no return,” the ruling said.  “Senior investors in affected transactions might find it
interesting to explore the possibility of calling for an issuer
default event using the Eurosail rationale of the point of no
return,” said Christian Aufsatz, a London-based analyst at
 Barclays Capital .  Transactions facing similar default claims date mostly from
before 2007, when sellers added options designed to limit
bondholder claims to the underlying assets. The  Eurosail ruling 
said the so-called post enforcement call option, or PECO,
wouldn’t prevent insolvency, Bank of America’s Nichol in London
said.  About 15.6 billion pounds ($25 billion) of bonds backed by
commercial real estate loans come due between 2012 and 2017,
according to S&P. Commercial real estate prices in the U.K. fell
almost 35 percent from 2007, according to Investment Property
Databank Ltd., a London-based research company. That’s double
the 13.4 percent drop in house values in the same period,
Nationwide Building Society data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  