-- 
EIIB Can’t Join HSBC Joint Lawsuit Against Algosaibi

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-28T09:54:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/eiib-can-t-join-hsbc-joint-lawsuit-against-algosaibi-judge-says.html
(Corrects to add claim filed on behalf of syndicate of 12
parties in fifth paragraph of story that was published March
25.)  European Islamic Investment Bank
Plc (EIIB) , the London-based lender whose deals comply with Sharia law,
cannot add a $78 million claim against Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi &
Brothers Co. to a U.K. group lawsuit, a judge ruled.  The bank knew about the joint claims by  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
and five other lenders against Algosaibi, a Saudi  investment
company , by at least October and waited too long to ask to join,
Justice Julian Flaux ruled today at the High Court in  London .  Allowing EIIB to join the consolidated lawsuit “runs the
risk of derailing the whole case,” Flaux said in the hearing.
The bank “has only itself to blame” for deciding to spend time
on settlement talks instead of suing sooner, he said.  The dispute, stemming from the largest default in  Saudi
Arabia  to come out of the financial crisis, has total claims of
about $250 million and is scheduled for trial in June. The case
already faces potential delays in procuring evidence due to
unrest in the Middle East, Flaux said.  The $78 million claim was filed on behalf of a syndicate of
12 parties, EIIB said.  The suit includes HSBC’s $85 million claim, British Arab
Commercial Bank Ltd.’s $19 million claim, Arab Banking Corp.’s
claims totaling $140 million and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ’s $6 million
claim. The banks, who say they are competing for limited assets,
challenged EIIB’s bid to join the case.  Matthew Collings, EIIB’s lawyer with Maitland Chambers in
London, said his client would continue to seek repayment and may
find a way to join the case after the trial.  EIIB should consider seeking to join another lawsuit
against Algosaibi, filed by Paris-based  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, which
seeks about $4 million, Flaux said.  The suit was triggered by a dispute between Algosaibi, a
holding company with interests from bottling to finance, and
Maan al-Sanea, the founder of Saudi Arabia’s Saad Group. Units
of the two families defaulted after borrowing at least $15.7
billion from more than 80 banks, and lawsuits are pending around
the globe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 