-- 
Emerging-Market Equities Head for Biggest Weekly Advance Since November

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-03-25T22:20:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/emerging-stocks-poised-for-biggest-weekly-gain-since-november-on-earnings.html
Developing-nation stocks advanced
for a sixth day, driving the benchmark index to its biggest
weekly increase since November, as better-than-estimated
forecasts from technology companies and a jump in  Bank of China
Ltd. (3988) ’s earnings bolstered confidence in the global economy.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 0.8 percent to
1,143.94 at 4:30 p.m. in  New York , extending its gain this week
to 4.1 percent. MSCI’s emerging-market technology index jumped
2.2 percent, the most in four months. The Shanghai Composite
Index added 1.1 percent, while the Bombay Stock Exchange
Sensitive Index surged 2.5 percent for the world’s best gain.  Infosys Technologies Ltd. (INFO) ,  India ’s second-largest software-
services provider, surged 5.3 percent after rival Oracle Corp.
forecast fourth-quarter profit that topped analysts’ projections
and Accenture Plc predicted sales for this quarter that exceeded
estimates. Bank of China, the nation’s third-largest lender by
market value, advanced 2.6 percent in Hong Kong trading after
saying net income climbed a more-than-expected 29 percent to
104.4 billion yuan ($15.9 billion) in 2010.  “The earnings story” is boosting markets, said Pankaj Kumar, who oversees $560 million as chief investment officer of
Kurnia Insurans Malaysia Bhd. in  Petaling Jaya , near Kuala
Lumpur. “What we’re seeing is an extension of a relief rally
after the earlier selloff on worries about the nuclear concerns
in  Japan .”  Currencies, Bonds  MSCI’s developing nation index declined 3.5 percent in the
previous two weeks after Japan suffered its largest earthquake
on record and damage to nuclear reactors sparked emergency
operations to prevent radiation leaks and a meltdown. Japan’s
nuclear regulator said today that one reactor core at the quake-
damaged Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant may be cracked and
leaking radiation.  Korea’s won led gains in developing-nation currencies,
climbing 0.6 percent against the dollar.  South Africa ’s rand
added 0.3 percent. The extra yield investors demand to own
emerging-market debt over  U.S. Treasuries  declined 7 basis
points to 2.58 percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI+ Index.  The Markit iTraxx SOVX CEEMEA Index of credit-default swaps
for emerging  Europe , the Middle East and Africa dropped 2 basis
points to 196.7, according to CMA in  London .  Technology companies led gains in the MSCI emerging-market
index after Oracle, the world’s biggest supplier of database
software, said fourth-quarter profit will increase amid a boom
in demand. Infosys shares climbed the most on a closing basis
since July 2009.  China  Earnings  Carrier Brasil Telecom SA today gained the most since 2008,
helping the benchmark gauge of Brazilian telecommunications
stocks cap its biggest weekly jump since May.  Brazil ’s Bovespa
stock index posted the biggest weekly advance.  “Money waiting on the sidelines is now finding its way
into Indian stocks as valuations have come down to attractive
levels,” Mumbai-based Prateek Agrawal, head of equity at Bharti
AXA Investment Managers Pvt. said by phone. He favors “large-
cap” software companies, lenders and automakers.  Bank of China earnings beat the 99 billion yuan average of
19 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. China Construction Bank
Corp., which is slated to report earnings today, rose 2 percent.  Russia ’s Micex Index rose 0.7 percent as OAO GMK Norilsk
Nickel gained 2.9 percent in Moscow trading. OAO Rosneft lost
0.3 percent as the oil company’s deal with BP Plc for a $7.8
billion share swap and Arctic exploration pact was blocked by an
arbitration tribunal after the Russian billionaire partners of
TNK-BP opposed the plan, claiming the right to pursue new
prospects in Russia on behalf of BP. TNK-BP shares rose 2.1
percent.  South Africa  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index dropped 0.2 percent.
South African stocks are “significantly overvalued” after a
surge in metals boosted equity prices, according to Investec
Asset Management, South Africa’s largest independent money
manager.  “I’ll say the market will struggle from here on,” Sam Houlie, who oversees about 120 billion rand ($17.5 billion) as
head of South African equities at Investec, said in an interview
at his Cape Town office. “I’m looking for places to hide
because I think the market is over-extended.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  