-- 
Encore Energy Rises After Vanguard Natural Proposes Buyout

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-03-25T20:04:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/encore-energy-rises-4-2-after-vanguard-natural-proposes-buyout.html
Encore Energy Partners LP (ENP) , owner of
oil and natural-gas properties in Wyoming and Montana, rose as
much as 1.3 percent after  Vanguard Natural Resources LLC (VNR)  offered
to buy the 54 percent of the partnership it doesn’t already own
at a price that values it at about $1.05 billion.  Encore, based in Houston, rose 16 cents to $23.31 at 4:00
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Before today,
the units had risen 3 percent this year.  Vanguard, which controls Encore through ownership of its
general partner, offered 0.72 shares for the partnership units
it doesn’t own, the company said today in a statement. That
represents $23.20 per unit, a 5-cent premium, based on
yesterday’s closing prices. A committee of independent directors
is reviewing the offer, Encore said today in a statement.  Vanguard, also based in Houston, fell 8 cents to $32.14.
Vanguard owns oil and gas reserves in the southern Appalachian
basin, the Permian Basin, South Texas and  Mississippi , according
to its statement today. Encore also owns properties in the
Williston Basin of  North Dakota  and Montana, the Permian Basin
and the Arkoma Basin of Arkansas and Oklahoma, the partnership
said.  Vanguard bought its stake in Encore from Denbury Resources
Inc. for $380 million in December. If accepted, the bid for
Encore would be Vanguard’s largest acquisition, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vanguard is offering 9.3 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, compared with 7.58 it paid
for the 46 percent stake and control of the partnership,
according Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 