-- 
Euro Declines as Debt Concern Persists; Australian Dollar Rises to Record

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-03-25T21:05:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/euro-weakens-as-european-union-cuts-emergency-aid-capital-yen-pares-loss.html
The euro slumped against the dollar
as European Union leaders cut the startup capital for a program
for future emergency aid, stoking concern about governments’
efforts to quell the debt crisis.  The shared currency fell from almost its highest level in
four months against the U.S. currency as a major European
clearinghouse said Portuguese government bonds will no longer be
eligible as collateral in certain transactions. New Zealand’s
currency touched the highest in almost a month against the
dollar as Reserve Bank Governor Alan Bollard said the nation’s
economy will get a boost next year. The Australian dollar
strengthened to the highest level versus its U.S. counterpart
since foreign-exchange controls ended in 1983.  “Portugal doesn’t seem like a domino, but there’s still a
bit of uneasiness,” said Brian Kim, a currency strategist at
UBS AG in  Stamford , Connecticut. “It seems the downside is
being limited by European Central Bank expectations.”  The euro fell 0.6 percent to $1.4088 at 5:01 p.m. in New
York, from $1.4177 yesterday. It rose 0.2 percent against the
yen at 114.59, from 114.79. The yen weakened 0.5 percent to
81.34 per  U.S. dollar , from 80.97  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against six
major trading partners, rose 0.6 percent to 76.142, after
touching the most since March 18. The gauge is weighted 57.6
percent to movements in the euro.  Fed View  The euro extended losses after Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  said the improving
economy means policy makers should detail a plan for withdrawing
record monetary stimulus.  The central bank should set a pace for selling its mortgage
and Treasury holdings in conjunction with raising  interest
rates , Plosser said today in a speech in New York.  Australia ’s dollar rose as much as 0.8 percent to $1.0294,
as technical levels were triggered, before trading at $1.0260,
from $1.0212.  “There were a lot of orders sitting above the $1.0255-60
level and so when it broke the level a lot of stops were
triggered and we saw a very very quick move,” said  Kathy Lien ,
director of currency research, with online currency trader GFT
Forex, in New York. “Unfortunately, there isn’t specific data
or event to explain this move.”  Traders place automatic buy and sell orders, known as
stops, at predetermined prices to limit losses.  EU Plan  EU leaders pared the fund’s paid-in capital as of 2013 to
16 billion euros ($23 billion), less than the 40 billion euros
foreseen in a March 21 accord. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said it will take the euro years to recover from the “sins of
the past.”  LCH Clearnet Ltd.,  Europe ’s biggest clearing house, said
Portuguese government bonds will no longer be eligible for
delivery in any of its RepoClear euro general collateral baskets
after the nation’s debt was downgraded by Standard & Poor’s
yesterday. The exclusion takes effect from Monday, LCH said in a
statement on its website.  “The European debt situation is still the main focus for
the markets,” said  Stephen Gallo , head of market analysis at
Schneider Foreign Exchange in  London . “The yen is still
borderline dysfunctional. The market for yen last week prior to
the intervention by the G-7 became very dysfunctional.”  Yen Path  The yen headed for a 0.9 percent weekly loss versus the
dollar and a 0.2 percent decline against the euro, in the week
following the Group of Seven nations’ sale of yen to weaken the
currency and support  Japan ’s recovery from its earthquake.  “The market is cautious on dollar-yen and it doesn’t seem
like people are trying to test the central banks,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate currency sales desk at
Societe Generale SA in  New York . “The dollar-yen seems to be
locked in a little bit of a range between 81.50 and 80.50.”  Japanese investors bought more foreign assets than they
sold from March 13 to March 19, the  Finance Ministry  said in a
report in  Tokyo  today. Purchases of foreign assets, including
bonds and notes, exceeded sales by 291 billion yen, the report
showed.  South Korea’s won was among the best performer against the
dollar as overseas funds added to holdings of the nation’s
assets this week. The won rose 0.6 percent today and 1.1 percent
this week to 1,114.20 per dollar.  Won Moves  Foreign investors bought $601 million more South Korean
stocks than they sold this week through yesterday, according to
exchange data.  New Zealand ’s dollar rose to its highest level in more than
three weeks after Bollard said the economy will grow from “a
very big” construction boom after earthquakes struck
Christchurch.  The kiwi gained 0.6 percent to 75.34 U.S. cents after
touching 75.76 U.S. cents, the highest level since Feb. 22.  Switzerland’s franc fell against all its major counterparts
and headed for weekly losses against the euro and dollar. The
move follows the franc’s biggest five-day gain versus the
greenback since June, as investors sought a haven amid lingering
tensions in the Middle East, according to the  Swiss National
Bank .  The franc weakened 1.2 percent to 91.99 centimes per
dollar.  “The franc was just overdone and now we’re seeing a move
the other way,” said  Tim O’Sullivan , chief trader at FOREX.com,
a unit of the online currency trading company Gain Capital in
Bedminster,  New Jersey . “I still think it’s a good play to buy
Swiss and sell dollars in this environment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  