-- 
European Loan Growth Accelerated in February on Stronger Economy

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-03-25T09:09:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/european-loan-growth-accelerated-in-february-on-stronger-economy.html
Growth of loans to households and
companies in  Europe  accelerated in February as a stronger
economy boosted demand for credit.  Loans to the private sector rose 2.6 percent from a year
earlier after rising an annual 2.4 percent in January, the
 European Central Bank  in Frankfurt said today. The rate of
growth in M3 money supply, which the ECB uses as a gauge of
future inflation, was 2 percent, the highest since August 2009.  Increased lending may bolster the ECB’s case for an
interest-rate increase next month. Officials, including
President Jean-Claude Trichet and executive board member  Juergen Stark , have signaled economic uncertainty caused by Japan’s
earthquake may not deter them from lifting borrowing costs. The
ECB wants to stem faster inflation fueled by stronger euro-area
economic growth and oil prices surging above $100 a barrel.  “Obviously loan growth mirrors the state of the economy so
the overall trend is up,” said  Nick Matthews , an economist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London . “While loan and
money growth are not yet inflationary, the ECB is still on
emergency setting for policy rates and it wants to get away from
that.”  Inflation accelerated to 2.4 percent in February, breaching
the ECB’s 2 percent limit for a third month. The ECB’s main
lending rate is currently at a record low of 1 percent.  “We need to be mindful not to keep  interest rates  too low
for too long,” Stark wrote in an article in the Wall Street
Journal published yesterday.  Euro-region banks expect loan demand to pick up in the
current quarter, the ECB said Jan 27, citing a survey. At the
same time, banks expect a “very slight” tightening of credit
standards, it added.  In the three months through February, M3 increased 1.7
percent from the same period a year earlier after gaining by the
same amount in the quarter through January, the ECB said. M3 is
the broadest gauge of  money supply  and includes cash in
circulation, some forms of savings and money-market holdings.
The annual rate of M1 money-supply growth fell to 2.9 percent in
February from 3.2 percent in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  