-- 
European Stocks Post Largest Weekly Gain in 6 Months as Japan Angst Eases

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-03-26T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/european-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-gain-in-6-months-as-japan-angst-eases.html
European stocks rose the most in
six months this week, as investors speculated that Japan will
prevent further radiation leaks from its stricken nuclear plant
and the  U.S. economy  grew at a faster-than-forecast pace.  Deutsche Telekom AG soared 12 percent as AT&T Inc. agreed
to buy T-Mobile USA Inc. Cie. de Saint-Gobain, Europe’s biggest
provider of building materials, neared its highest price since
June 2008.  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  gained 5.7 percent after copper rose
and it secured a tax concession from the Australian government.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 3.1 percent
this past week for the biggest advance since September. The
gauge had declined for four consecutive weeks amid concern that
revolts in the Middle East and North Africa will further disrupt
oil supplies and after Japan suffered its strongest earthquake
on record. The gauge has recouped 5.3 percent since this year’s
low on March 16.  “The impact on financial markets of the natural
catastrophe in  Japan  was not as dramatic as people feared and
valuations are currently too attractive for investors to
ignore,” said Kai Fachinger, who manages a 600 million euro
($849 million) fund for SAM Sustainable Asset Management AG in
Zurich. “Still, Portugal’s debt problem is an issue that will
return to haunt markets.”  The Stoxx 600 Index is trading at about 13.5 times its
companies’ reported earnings, near the gauge’s cheapest multiple
since 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan’s Earthquake  In Japan, the government estimated the damage from the
earthquake and tsunami on March 11 at as much as 25 trillion yen
($308 billion). Tokyo authorities said babies should avoid
drinking tap water after finding traces of iodine, boosting
shares of bottled water suppliers including Vevey, Switzerland-
based Nestle SA, which rose 4.9 percent this week.  Billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  said the earthquake is
a buying opportunity and he won’t sell his Japanese shares as
the tremor hasn’t changed the nation’s future.  European stocks rebounded as the U.S., the U.K. and  France 
imposed a no-fly zone over  Libya , sending aircraft to strike
Muammar Qaddafi’s ground forces. Coalition forces have mounted
successive attacks against the armored units that loyal to the
country’s ruler of the last 41 years. The three countries
intervened to prevent Qaddafi’s troops from entering Benghazi,
the center of the rebellion.  Stocks extended their gains as Portugal’s Prime Minister
 Jose Socrates  offered to resign after parliament rejected his
package of cuts to  government spending . Investors speculated
that Socrates’s defeat will force the country to ask the
European Union for a bailout. Two European officials with direct
knowledge of the matter said  Portugal  may need as much as 70
billion euros ($99 billion).  U.S. Economic Growth  The U.S. economy grew at a 3.1 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter, led by a jump in  consumer spending  that will be
hard to sustain after energy prices surged early this year. The
revised increase in gross domestic product compares with a 2.8
percent estimate last month, figures from the Commerce
Department showed.  In  Germany , business confidence fell less than economists
had predicted from a record high in March. The Munich-based Ifo
institute said its business-climate index, based on a survey of
7,000 executives, declined to 111.1 from 111.3 in February,
which was the highest reading since records for a reunified
Germany began in 1991. Economists had predicted a drop to 110.5,
according to the median of 39 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Deutsche Telekom, Vodafone  Deutsche Telekom soared 12 percent, the biggest gain since
2008 after AT&T agreed to buy  T-Mobile USA  to create America’s
largest mobile-phone company, trumping Sprint Nextel Corp.’s
effort to acquire the business.  Vodafone Plc, the world’s largest mobile-phone operator,
climbed 3.9 percent. The AT&T deal cuts the number of mobile
phone operators in the U.S., benefiting Vodafone’s joint venture
with Verizon Communications Inc., according to analysts
including Robin Bienenstock at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  AT&T’s acquisition helped a gauge of Stoxx 600
telecommunications companies rally 3.7 percent this week.  Construction and building-materials manufacturers rose the
most out of 19 industry groups in the benchmark measure,
following gains in  Asia , as investors speculated that demand
will increase as Japan rebuilds.  Saint Gobain gained 6.8 percent, taking the stock close to
its highest price since June 2008. CRH Plc surged 6.2 percent.  U.K. homebuilder Barratt Developments Plc advanced 9.4
percent after the U.K. government announced measures to help
first-time homebuyers get cheaper mortgages.  Carmakers Rally  A group of European carmakers surged 4.5 percent, led by
Fiat SpA. The Turin, Italy-based company gained 8.6 percent.
Pirelli & C. SpA,  Europe ’s third-largest maker of tires, rallied
5.4 percent this past week and raised its revenue target for
2011 to more than 5.5 billion euros.  Cap Gemini SA, Europe’s largest computer-services company,
rose 7.6 percent and SAP jumped 5.5 percent as technology
companies were amongst the three furthest advancing industry
groups in the Stoxx 600.  Accenture, the world’s second-largest technology-consulting
company, gave a sales forecast for this quarter that exceeded
analysts’ estimates and Oracle predicted that fourth-quarter
profit will top analysts’ estimates.  Rio Tinto , the world’s third-largest miner, advanced 5.7
percent. London-based Rio and larger competitor BHP Billiton
Ltd. secured their second tax concession in  Australia  after the
government agreed to allow them to credit future state royalties
imposts against a planned 30 percent levy on their profits.
Xstrata Plc, the world’s largest exporter of thermal coal,
gained 3.8 percent.  Swatch, Drax Gain  Swatch Group AG, the world’s largest watchmaker, surged 7
percent. Exports of timepieces rose 17.8 percent in February,
the Swiss Federal Customs Office in Bern said. The annual
Baselworld watch fair opened in  Switzerland  on Thursday.  Drax Group slumped 7.8 percent as U.K. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  said generators will have to pay a new
charge on carbon-dioxide emissions. The Treasury set its floor
at 16 pounds a ton, rising to 30 pounds by 2020, after
consulting with utilities, according to a Treasury spokesman who
declined to be named, citing government policy. The government
may raise its carbon tax to ensure a premium over European Union
emissions permits, according to a report from Citigroup Inc.  Cable & Wireless Declines  Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc tumbled 12 percent, the
biggest weekly decline since July, after the telecommunications
company said that the financial year’s gross margins in its
legacy voice business will decline more than it had predicted.  ITV Plc sank 7.4 percent. Jefferies Group Inc. downgraded
the U.K. broadcaster to “underperform” from “hold,” citing
“dire” consumer confidence numbers plus potential margin
squeeze from commodity price inflation in the retail sector.  Parmalat SpA dropped 8.5 percent after  Italy ’s government
described the parmesan-cheese maker as “strategic.” Laval,
France-based Groupe Lactalis had said it would buy out a group
of Parmalat shareholders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  