-- 
European Stocks Fluctuate, Head for Weekly Gain; SAP Advances

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-03-25T14:46:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-climb-stoxx-600-heads-for-weekly-gain.html
European stocks swung between gains
and losses as the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index headed for its biggest
weekly gain since September.  SAP AG (SAP) , the world’s largest maker of business-management
software, climbed 2.4 percent after better-than-expected
forecasts from  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  Accenture Plc. (ACN)  Cie. de Saint-
Gobain SA led construction stocks higher following gains made by
the industry in  Asia .  Next Plc (NXT)  declined as analysts at  Societe
Generale  SA cut their recommendation on the shares.  The Stoxx 600 advanced 0.2 percent to 276.17 at 2:36 p.m.
in  London , having swung between gains and losses more than eight
times. The index, which tumbled the most in eight months last
week on fears that  Japan ’s March 11 earthquake would lead to a
nuclear meltdown, has rebounded 3.2 percent this week.  “The market will be like a yo-yo around this level,” said
Matthieu Giuliani, a  fund manager  at Palatine Asset Management
in Paris, which oversees $5.6 billion. “Valuations aren’t high
and that’s a support for stocks. But there isn’t anything to get
overly excited about. Economic growth is weak and that will
eventually weigh on earnings.”  The Stoxx 600 has fallen 5.2 percent from this year’s high
on Feb. 17. That has left the gauge trading at about 13.5 times
its companies’ reported earnings, near the cheapest since 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  National Indexes  National benchmark indexes rose in 11 of the 18 western
European markets that were open.  France ’s CAC 40 added 0.1
percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE rose 0.4 percent.  Germany ’s DAX
climbed 0.2 percent.  European Union leaders are concluding a two-day meeting on
the region’s fiscal crisis in Brussels today.  Portugal  continued
to rule out a rescue after the parliament’s rejection of budget
cuts led Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  to offer to quit. A
bailout may total as much as 70 billion euros ($99 billion), two
European officials with direct knowledge of the matter said, as
credit-rating cuts threatened to deepen Portugal’s debt woes.  LCH.Clearnet Ltd., Europe’s biggest clearinghouse, said
Portuguese government bonds will no longer be eligible for
delivery in any of its RepoClear euro general collateral baskets
after the nation’s debt was downgraded by S&P.  SAP gained 2.4 percent to 43.16 euros after Accenture, the
world’s second-largest technology-consulting company, gave a
sales forecast for this quarter that exceeded analysts’
estimates and Oracle forecast fourth-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ predictions.  Construction Stocks  Construction stocks climbed, following gains in Asia, amid
optimism that demand would increase as Japan rebuilds. Saint-
Gobain, Europe’s biggest provider of building materials,
increased 1.7 percent to 43.69 euros.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the second-
largest cement maker, climbed 1.3 percent to 69.1 francs.  Next, the owner of more than 500 fashion stores in the U.K.
and Ireland, slipped 1.2 percent to 2,018 pence. The stock was
cut to “hold” at Societe Generale.  Derwent London, a real estate company, dropped 1.1 percent
to 1,663 pence. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research cut the stock
to “underperform” from “buy.”  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/)  increased 3.3 percent to 3,164
pence. The maker of Nurofen painkillers was raised to “buy”
from “neutral” at BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research.  HMV Group Plc (HMV)  surged 7.5 percent to 18 pence as Sky News
reported that the company has been approached by, among others,
Hilco U.K. Ltd., a specialist in distressed retailers. HMV said
that, while it’s looking at options for its Waterstone’s
bookstores and Canadian outlets, there have been no talks.  Credit Agricole   Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  rallied 2.6 percent to 12.25 euros after
Exane BNP Paribas initiated coverage of France’s third-largest
lender with an “outperform” recommendation.  Eurazeo (RF)  jumped 3.8 percent to 55.07 euros. France’s largest
publicly traded private-equity firm said 2010 net income was 115
million euros, reversing a restated 200.9 million-euro loss in
the year earlier. The company said it a proposing a dividend for
the year of 1.20 euros a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  