-- 
Swiss Franc, Yen Depreciate on Bets Global Recovery Will Withstand Turmoil

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-03-25T11:51:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/euro-heads-for-second-weekly-advance-versus-yen-on-ecb-inflation-outlook.html
The Swiss franc and yen dropped
against their major counterparts on speculation the global
economic recovery can withstand Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
and  Japan ’s earthquake, reducing demand for a refuge.  The euro slipped from almost its highest level in four
months against the dollar as European Union leaders cut the
startup capital for future emergency aid. The New Zealand dollar
headed for its biggest weekly gain this year on the prospect of
a construction boom following temblors in that country.  “The yen is weakening on the back of improving confidence
in the global recovery,” said  Lee Hardman , a strategist at Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “Fears that the
earthquake fallout from Japan would impact global growth are
starting to ease back, and that’s resulting in safe-haven
currencies starting to weaken.”  The  Swiss franc  depreciated 0.5 percent to 91.31 centimes
versus the dollar at 7:46 a.m. in  New York , from 90.86
yesterday, weakening against all the 16 most-traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The yen declined 0.4 percent to 81.25
versus the dollar, from 80.97, after touching 81.38, a one-week
low. The euro traded at $1.4165, compared with $1.4177.  The yen was headed for a 0.9 percent five-day drop against
the dollar and a depreciation of 0.7 percent against the euro.
The dollar was little changed versus the euro this week.  Foreign Assets  Japanese investors bought more foreign assets than they
sold from March 13 to 19, the  Finance Ministry  said in a report
in  Tokyo  today. Purchases of foreign assets, including bonds and
notes, exceeded sales by 291 billion yen, the report showed.  “There is a realization that the repatriation story
doesn’t have as much strength as originally anticipated;
investors are net buying foreign bonds, not net sellers,” said
Peter Rosenstreich, chief market analyst in Geneva at ACM
Advanced Currency Markets. “The  Bank of Japan  is going to
protect the yen and is not going to be raising rates any time
soon.”  The Group of Seven nations sold yen on March 18 to weaken
the currency and support Japan’s recovery from its earthquake
and the tsunami and nuclear power-plant disaster that followed.
The yen surged to a post-World War II record of 76.25 versus the
dollar on March 17 on speculation investors would repatriate
assets to fund reconstruction after the March 11 temblor.  The yen may fall toward 82 per dollar next week, according
to  Jeremy Stretch , executive director of foreign-exchange
strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in  London .  European Aid  European Union leaders cut the startup capital for the
future euro emergency aid mechanism after German demands to make
smaller upfront payments stoked fresh concern about Europe’s
effort to quell the debt crisis. The leaders pared the fund’s
paid-in capital as of 2013 to 16 billion euros ($23 billion),
less than the 40 billion euros foreseen in a March 21 accord.  “One of the most noticeable things this week has been the
resilience of the euro to the negative news that we’ve had,”
said Jane Foley, a senior foreign-exchange strategist at
Rabobank International in London.  German business confidence fell in March less than
economists forecast, a report showed today, indicating Japan’s
earthquake and the prospect of higher euro-region borrowing
costs may not damp growth in  Europe ’s largest economy.  The Munich-based Ifo institute said its business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, slid to 111.1 this
month from 111.3 in February, which was the highest reading
since records for a reunified  Germany  began in 1991. Economists
expected a drop to 110.5, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  New Zealand’s dollar rose to its highest level in three
weeks after Reserve Bank Governor Alan Bollard said the nation’s
economy will get a boost next year from “a very big”
construction boom after earthquakes struck Christchurch.  The kiwi gained 0.4 percent to 75.24 U.S. cents after
touching 75.34 U.S. cents, the highest level since Feb. 28. The
 New Zealand dollar  has risen 3 percent this week, the biggest
five-day gain this year.  Australia ’s dollar advanced 0.4 percent
to $1.0248, extending its gain this week to 2.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in  Hong Kong  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  