-- 
Ex-Glaxo Lawyer May Face New Indictment in Case Dismissed by Federal Judge

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-25T16:00:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/ex-glaxo-lawyer-may-face-new-indictment-in-case-dismissed-by-federal-judge.html
An ex- GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  lawyer
who won dismissal of a false-statements case against her may
face new charges after a federal judge said he would allow
prosecutors to seek another indictment.  U.S. District Judge Roger Titus set an April 26 trial date
in Greenbelt, Maryland, for the lawyer, Lauren Stevens, saying
it was conditioned on whether the government could secure a new
indictment in time. Titus dismissed the case against Stevens on
March 23 after finding prosecutors misinformed the grand jury
about a key element of Stevens’s defense.  “The government can’t make a commitment as to which way it
will go,” Titus said at a hearing today, noting the prosecutors
could also seek to appeal the dismissal.  Stevens was charged with obstructing an investigation into
whether Glaxo marketed the antidepressant Wellbutrin for
unapproved uses. She based her defense on the claim that, in
responding to a Food and Drug Administration inquiry, she took
the advice of the law firm King & Spalding, her attorney Reid Weingarten said at a hearing last week.  Weingarten declined to comment today.  Prosecutors wouldn’t say in court today what they plan to
do. During a hearing last week on whether the case should be
dismissed, government lawyers said they wanted an opportunity to
seek another indictment if Titus threw out the case. Stevens was
scheduled to go to trial on April 5.  Patrick Jasperse, the Justice Department attorney
prosecuting the case, declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Stevens, 10-cr-694, U.S. District
Court, District of  Maryland  (Greenbelt).  To contact the reporter on this story: Tom Schoenberg in
 Washington  at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: David Rovella
at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 