-- 
Lockhart Supports Fed's Monetary Policy, Would Tighten to Curb Inflation

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-03-25T16:05:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/fed-s-lockhart-backs-policy-ready-to-tighten-if-prices-rise.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said that while the Fed’s current
monetary policy is appropriate to bring about a moderate
expansion and stable prices, he is ready to tighten policy if
recent higher inflation persists.  “I am prepared to support a change of policy if evidence
accumulates that the low and stable inflation objective is at
risk,” Lockhart said today in a speech in  Fort Myers ,  Florida .
“For now, however, I remain satisfied that the current stance
of monetary policy is appropriately calibrated to the current
and projected state of the economy and supportive of both the
employment and price stability objectives.”  The Fed’s policy committee said March 15 that the U.S.
economic recovery “is on a firmer footing,” while the labor
market is “improving gradually.” Policy makers reiterated
plans to complete purchases of $600 billion in U.S. Treasuries
by June to accelerate the recovery.  “While short-term measures of inflation have moved up
rather strongly in the last few months, I hold to the view that
this trajectory will not persist,” Lockhart said. “I continue
to see the  Federal Reserve ’s inflation objective I just outlined
as attainable.”  The Atlanta Fed president told reporters after his speech
he favors completing the asset purchases as scheduled and
opposes additional moves based on his current economic forecast.  “Where I stand today is I favor playing it out as
originally designed and originally communicated,” Lockhart
said. “The bar is high to have another significant quantitative
easing, or large-scale asset purchase program, given the outlook
that I have. If something changes in the outlook, as I said, I
have to consider in either direction a change in policy.”  Rise Is Transitory  Lockhart said he is monitoring closely inflation and
inflation expectations for signs that higher inflation could
continue.  “The rise in prices we have seen is transitory and it will
settle out at a rate consistent with our objective, that is
around 2 percent of broad inflation,” he said in response to an
audience question.  The consumer-price index increased 0.5 percent in February,
the most since June 2009, according to figures from the Labor
Department. Overall consumer prices increased 2.1 percent in the
12 months ended February, compared with a 1.6 percent year-over-
year gain the prior month.  Lockhart repeated that his “base case” is for a moderate
recovery while adding that higher energy prices could dampen
 consumer spending  and global uncertainty was a risk restraining
business plans.  “I come to a net positive outlook for the economy for the
rest of 2011 and 2012,” Lockhart said at the Bonita/Estero
Market Pulse Conference. “Notwithstanding headwinds and risks,
a self-reinforcing virtuous circle of final demand is
increasingly becoming established.”  The most likely forecast is a “continuation of the
storyline of moderate growth, gradually declining unemployment,
and the settling of price movements around an inflation rate
that is consistent with the Federal Reserve’s price stability
objective,” he said.  Lockhart told reporters after his speech that a sustained
rise in energy prices was a risk to his growth outlook.  “If for example there is a spike in  oil prices  and that is
sustained for a period of time, our analysis is that could have
a dampening effect on growth,” he said.  Decline in Sales  The  U.S. economy  is forecast to expand at a 3.4 percent
rate this quarter and 3.3 percent rate in the second quarter,
according to the median of 67 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News this month. A decline in new home sales and durable goods
orders in February, reported this week, suggest the recovery
continues to be uneven.  The central bank was divided over whether further evidence
of a strengthening recovery would warrant slowing or reducing
the $600 billion of Treasury purchases. Philadelphia Fed
President  Charles Plosser , Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker
and St. Louis’s  James Bullard  have urged a review of the
purchases in light of a strengthening economy and concern over
future inflation.  Lockhart, 64, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. Fed presidents rotate voting on
monetary policy with Lockhart next voting in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Fort Myers, Florida at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  