-- 
Plosser Says Fed Should Detail Asset Sales While It Raises Interest Rates

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 
2011-03-25T21:55:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/fed-s-plosser-urges-tying-asset-sales-to-raising-interest-rate.html
Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  laid out a strategy for
withdrawing record monetary stimulus and said the improving
economy means policy makers should consider how to exit.  The central bank should set a pace for selling its mortgage
and Treasury holdings in conjunction with raising  interest
rates , Plosser said today in a speech in New York. He suggested
selling $125 billion for every 0.25 percentage-point rise in the
benchmark rate to almost eliminate $1.5 trillion in bank
reserves.  Treasuries fell after Plosser, 62, a skeptic of the Fed’s
decision to expand bond buying in November, described one of the
most detailed plans by a policy maker for how to tighten credit
and shrink a $2.6 trillion balance sheet. Fed officials were
discussing the exit strategy a year ago before a slowing
recovery led them to increase stimulus.  “By tying sales to interest rate decisions, it allows the
process for selling assets to be conditional on economic
outcomes in ways that are familiar to market participants,”
Plosser said at a symposium hosted by the Shadow Open Market
Committee, a group of economists who critique Fed policy. “This
should provide a degree of comfort to the markets and reduce
uncertainty about the path of sales.”  The yield on 10-year Treasuries rose to 3.44 percent at
5:15 p.m. in  New York  from 3.41 percent late yesterday,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Next Steps  Plosser was among four Fed officials today discussing
either the end of asset purchases or potential next steps,
underscoring that central bankers are pondering how and when to
unwind their programs to revive the economy after the deepest
recession in seven decades.  Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota , speaking
with reporters in Marseille,  France , said the  U.S. economy  would
have to “worsen materially” for the central bank to consider
extending its bond purchases past June. Atlanta Fed President
 Dennis Lockhart  said in a speech in  Fort Myers ,  Florida , that
while current policy is appropriate to bring about a moderate
expansion and stable prices, he is ready to tighten policy if
recent higher inflation persists.  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  told reporters at the
bank that the Fed has less need to support the economy beyond
this round of asset purchases, and any changes to the central
bank’s stimulative policies should be considered some time after
the program ends. “The economy definitely continues to improve
each month,” he said.  ‘Broadly Accurate’  If Plosser’s favorable economic outlook is “broadly
accurate, then monetary policy will have to reverse course in
the not-too-distant future and begin to remove the massive
amount of accommodation it has supplied to the economy,” the
Philadelphia Fed chief said.  Plosser, responding to questions after the speech,
cautioned that he doesn’t have the “foggiest idea” if his plan
will be implemented. He is among the most aggressive Fed
proponents of attacking inflation through tighter monetary
policy, dissenting twice from decisions to lower borrowing costs
in 2008.  He co-chaired the shadow group before joining the
Philadelphia Fed as its president in 2006. The event was also
hosted by Economics 21, a  Washington  research group.  Bond Purchases  The Fed is scheduled to complete $600 billion of Treasury
purchases in June under the second round of so-called
quantitative easing; officials have given little indication what
they will do after that. In speeches and testimony over the past
two years, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has listed the Fed’s tools
for tightening credit, including raising rates, draining
reserves and selling assets, without committing to the timing,
sequence or aggressiveness of use.  Plosser said today he is focusing on the “design” of the
exit strategy, not when to execute it. “It ought to be as rule-
based as we can make it and as predictable as we can make it,”
while still being responsive to the economy, he said after the
speech.  Using the tool of raising the interest rate on banks’
reserves alone isn’t a cure-all because it doesn’t shrink the
Fed’s assets, Plosser told reporters. “I want the balance sheet
smaller,” he said. He said he’s worried about the Fed “getting
behind the curve.”  At the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s last meeting on
March 15, Plosser joined Fed policy makers in unanimously
reaffirming plans to buy Treasuries while saying the recovery is
gaining strength and that higher energy prices will have a
temporary effect on inflation. The Fed has kept the federal
funds rate close to zero since December 2008.  ‘Significant Strength’  “The economy has gained significant strength and momentum
since late last summer and seems to be on a much firmer
foundation going forward,” Plosser said today. Companies are
hiring workers, and weakness in commercial and residential real
estate shouldn’t “prevent a broader economic recovery,” he
said.  Turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa, along with
Japan’s earthquake, tsunami and nuclear disaster, risk pushing
up  oil prices  and damping the U.S. recovery, Plosser said.
Still, such risk “is small and short term, assuming  Japan  is
able to stabilize its nuclear reactors and political unrest in
the Middle East does not dramatically disrupt  Saudi Arabia , the
region’s largest oil producer,” he said.  Jump in Spending  The economy grew at a revised 3.1 percent annual rate in
the fourth quarter, up from a prior estimate of 2.8 percent,
figures from the Commerce Department also showed today. The gain
was led by a jump in  consumer spending . Consumer sentiment in
the U.S. dropped more than forecast in March, according to the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index, constrained by
higher gasoline costs and the impact from Japan’s earthquake.  Analysts in a Bloomberg News survey earlier this month were
divided over how long the Fed will keep its bond portfolio
stable after the purchases end, with a plurality of 16 betting
on a period of four to six months. Five economists said the Fed
would halt the policy once QE2 ends; 11 said it would keep
reinvesting for one to three months; 14 said seven to nine
months and four said more than nine months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  