-- 
Fed Briefings Are Inflation ‘Battle Readiness,’ Crescenzi Says

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-03-25T16:00:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/fed-briefings-are-inflation-battle-readiness-crescenzi-says.html
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s plan to hold press briefings will help the central
bank unwind stimulus measures and manage inflation expectations,
said Anthony Crescenzi of Pacific Investment Management Co.  Crescenzi, a portfolio manager and strategist at  Newport
Beach , California-based Pimco, spoke today on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness With Margaret Brennan.” The Fed said
yesterday Bernanke will hold four press briefings a year,
starting in April.  On the Fed’s effort to manage inflation expectations:  “This is all along the lines of battle readiness. The Fed
needs to manage inflation expectations because the Fed has put a
lot of money into the financial system, over a trillion dollars,
it’s continuing to put money into the financial system. There’s
a misunderstanding about what the money is doing, the so-called
reserves, and what it could cause in terms of inflation.”  On the central bank increasing communication with the press:  “The Fed in using its communications can help guide
inflation expectations lower by assuring the public of its
commitment to  price stability .”  On interest-rate changes:  “In terms of battle readiness, the Fed of course wants to
reduce collateral damage that might be associated with any rate
changes, or rate reversal, sometime in the future.”  On increased bank reserves causing higher inflation:  “There’s this feeling that those trillion dollars are
causing movements upward in prices. But the money itself, the
reserves, have not actually found their way into the financial
system in any meaningful way.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Brennan in New York at 
 mbrennan25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  