-- 
Fed Has Less Need for Extra Stimulus as Economy Gains Monthly, Evans Says

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-03-25T16:52:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/fed-has-less-need-for-extra-stimulus-as-economy-gains-monthly-evans-says.html
The  Federal Reserve  has less need
to support an improving economy beyond the $600 billion Treasury
purchase plan already in place, and any changes to the central
bank’s stimulative policies should be considered some time after
the program ends, said  Charles Evans , president of the Fed’s
regional bank in  Chicago .  “The economy definitely continues to improve each month,”
Evans, 53, said today in a meeting with reporters at the bank.
“It would be natural to expect that there would be some period
of time between when the $600 billion is completed and an
assessment of a change” in the trajectory of policy.  The  regional bank chief’s  comments buttress the position
taken last week by Fed officials, who said the economy is on
“firmer footing” and signaled they’re unlikely to expand the
bond purchase plan. The jobless rate unexpectedly fell to 8.9
percent in February, the lowest in almost two years, and
employers added 192,000 jobs in a sign of growing confidence in
the recovery.  “Each quarter, there seems to be more momentum going into
our last FOMC meeting,’ said Evans, who votes on the  Federal
Open Market Committee  this year. ‘‘I personally don’t see as
many needs for a further amount as I probably thought last fall.
Last fall, I thought 600 was a good start and we would evaluate
conditions at the appropriate time.”  Mortgage-Backed  A decision to end the reinvestment of proceeds from
maturing mortgage-backed securities “could clearly be a first
step, a very modest one” toward tightening monetary policy,
“which could then perhaps not be followed very quickly with
other restraining moves,” he said. “On the other hand, if the
trajectory of the economy or inflation changes in a way that our
current policy is not prepared to handle, then you’d want to
take something firmer, perhaps in conjunction with introducing
other tools.”  Data released this month support the central bank’s
upgraded view. The unemployment rate has dropped by almost 1
percentage point since the Fed announced the $600 billion
program in November.  Payrolls have increased by an average 134,000 a month for
the past five months. Evans said he now expects unemployment to
drop to 7.5 percent by the end of next year, compared with a
previous forecast of 8 percent.  Still, other figures show some parts of the economy
floundering. Purchases of new U.S. homes unexpectedly fell in
February to the slowest pace on record and housing starts
plunged, signaling the recovery faces obstacles.  ‘Right Decision’  “In this environment, I still think accommodation is the
right decision,” Evans said. “Our current low rates continue
to be appropriate and will continue to be appropriate for an
extended period.”  U.S. stocks have gained since November, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rising more than 9 percent. The  S&P 500  was up
0.7 percent at 1,318.98 at 12:27 p.m. in  New York  today.  Labor market conditions are “improving gradually,” and
the recent rise in commodity prices should have only a temporary
effect on overall inflation, the FOMC said after its March 15
meeting in  Washington .  Evans said today the Fed is “very mindful” that prices
are moving higher.  Fed officials have purchased $1.7 trillion of mortgage debt
and Treasuries through March 2010 to pull the U.S. out of the
recession. The $600 billion plan is the central bank’s second
large-scale round of Treasury purchases, also known by
economists and investors as “QE2.”  ‘Exceptionally Low’  The central bank also has left its benchmark federal funds
rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008, and
pledged for the past two years to keep it “exceptionally low”
for an “extended period.”  “How quickly would I personally think we should move in a
different direction?” Evans said. “I wouldn’t think it would
be the next day or right away.”  “For me, that means I’m going to continue to look at how
inflation and the economy are performing. I would think any
further adjustments in policy would be some period of time after
we stop the $600 billion” program, according to Evans.  Evans has led the Chicago Fed since September 2007 and is
one of only two regional Fed presidents who vote on the FOMC
every other year, along with Cleveland Fed President  Sandra Pianalto .  The regional bank chief has been among the FOMC’s strongest
supporters of monetary stimulus since last year. He represents a
five-state region that includes  Iowa  and most of  Illinois ,
 Indiana ,  Michigan  and  Wisconsin . Iowa has one of the lowest
unemployment rates, at 6.1 percent, while Michigan has one of
the highest, at 10.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  