-- 
Duke’s NCAA Title Run Ends With Loss to Arizona; Butler, Connecticut Win

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-03-25T06:24:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/florida-beats-brigham-young-connecticut-defeats-san-diego-in-ncaa.html
Duke University ’s reign as national
champion ended with a 93-77 loss to the University of  Arizona 
that left coach  Mike Krzyzewski  stuck on 900 wins, two short of
tying the men’s major college basketball career mark.  Derrick Williams had 32 points and 13 rebounds and Arizona
(30-7) took control with a 19-2 run early in the second half
last night to give the Blue Devils (32-5) their most lopsided
defeat of the season.  “Williams, he’s just a superb player, he’s better than
anybody we’ve played,” Krzyzewski said in a news conference.
“There’s a physicality to his game. He’s a clean, beautiful
player.”  Arizona will play the  University of Connecticut  (29-9)
tomorrow in the West Regional final at the Honda Center in
Anaheim,  California . Kemba Walker scored 36 points to lead the
Huskies to a 74-67 win yesterday against  San Diego State
University .  The University of Florida (29-7) and Butler University (26-
9) advanced to the Southeast Regional final in  New Orleans .
Florida won 83-74 in overtime against  Brigham Young University ,
which got 32 points from national scoring leader Jimmer
Fredette. Butler, which lost the national championship game last
year to Duke, was a 61-54 winner against the University of
 Wisconsin .  Buckeyes In Action  There are four more Round of 16 games today, including a
contest between overall top seed Ohio State and seven-time
national champion  Kentucky . The winners will play in the
regional finals, and the four regional champions advance to the
national semifinals April 2 in Houston.  Arizona, which trailed 44-38 at halftime, outscored the
Blue Devils 55-33 in the second half. The fifth-seeded Wildcats
shot 58 percent after halftime and outrebounded top-seeded Duke
25-9.  “The second half was like a second game, we were a total
team,” Arizona coach Sean Miller said in a news conference.
“We were revved up.”  Williams, a 6-foot-8 sophomore forward, hit 11 of 17 shots
-- going 5-for-6 on 3-pointers -- for Arizona, which entered the
game as a 9 1/2-point underdog, according to Las Vegas
oddsmakers. Lamont Jones added 16 points for the Wildcats and
Solomon Hill had 13.  Jones’s next assignment will be guarding  Connecticut ’s
Walker, his “best friend” and former high school teammate from
Rice High School in  New York City .  “He’s like my brother,”
Jones said.  Duke’s Biggest Loss  Freshman point guard Kyrie Irving had 28 points to lead
Duke, whose worst previous loss this season was 93-78 at  St.
John’s  on Jan. 30. Duke became the second No. 1 regional seed
eliminated from the National Collegiate Athletic Association
tournament. The  University of Pittsburgh , the top team in the
Southeast Regional, lost last weekend.  “The tournament is cruel,” said Krzyzewski. “It’s an
abrupt end for everybody when you don’t win. The better team won
tonight.”  Krzyzewski needs two wins to tie the men’s Division I
career mark of 902 held by his former Army coach and mentor,  Bob
Knight .  Connecticut, the third seed in the West, closed its win
with a 9-3 scoring run over the final three minutes. The turning
point came midway through the second half with second-seeded San
Diego State leading 53-49.  The Aztecs’ Jamaal Franklin bumped into Walker, who fell
backward onto the court, as the teams headed to their benches
for a timeout. Franklin was given a technical foul and Walker
hit those two free throws, starting an 11-1 run by Big East
conference champion Connecticut.  ‘Ran Into Me’  “I was walking on my way to the huddle and one of their
players ran into me,” Walker said. “The contact was definitely
enough to go down.”  Jeremy Lamb, who hit nine of 11 shots and all three of his
3-pointers, added 24 points for Connecticut, which has won eight
straight postseason games. Kawhi Leonard scored 12 points for
San Diego State, four below his season average.  “When your season comes to a screeching halt like it will
for every team with one exception, it hurts,” San Diego State
coach Steve Fisher said. “For our team this year, for what
they’ve accomplished, it hurts exponentially more.”  Butler, which lost to Duke in last year’s NCAA championship
game, is a win away from the Final Four after Matt Howard’s 20-
point, 12-rebound effort against fourth-seeded Wisconsin.  Butler, the eighth seed in the Southeast, held Wisconsin to
30 percent shooting.  The Bulldogs’ next opponent, second-seeded  Florida ,
outscored BYU 15-6 in overtime to return to the regional finals
for the first time since 2007.  “We’re thrilled to still be playing, and that’s the bottom
line,” Butler coach Brad Stevens said. “I don’t think that this
group goes into games not believing. We’re going to see if we
can’t try to get one on Saturday and move on.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Rob Gloster at the NCAA tournament in Anaheim, California,
at  rgloster@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  