-- 
Florida Settles With Law Firm in Foreclosure Investigation

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-03-25T23:19:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/florida-law-firm-to-pay-2-million-over-state-foreclosure-investigation.html
A  Fort Lauderdale , Florida, law
firm agreed to pay $2 million to resolve an investigation by the
state attorney general’s office into the firm’s handling of
foreclosure cases on behalf of lenders.  The Law Offices of Marshall C. Watson also agreed to adhere
to certain requirements in its foreclosure cases, Attorney
General Pam Bondi said in a statement today. Investigations into
other law firms are ongoing, she said.  “We are aggressively investigating these law firms in
order to protect the interests of everyone involved in
foreclosure proceedings,” Bondi said.  The Florida attorney general’s office said last year it was
investigating law firms in the state that handle residential
foreclosure cases. The firms appeared to be “fabricating and/or
presenting false and misleading documents in foreclosure
cases,” the office said on its website.  The attorney general’s office continues to investigate four
firms, spokeswoman Jennifer Meale said in a phone interview
today. The firms are the Law Offices of David J. Stern PA,
Shapiro & Fishman LLP,  Florida  Default Law Group and Ben-Ezra &
Katz PA, she said.  The state also has “informal inquiries” into additional
foreclosure law firms, Meale said. She declined to provide
details of the probes.  ‘Without Any Findings’  Watson, the president and chief executive officer of the
firm, said in a statement he is pleased the investigation was
resolved “without any findings.”  “Throughout the investigation, we worked closely with the
attorney general’s office to develop best practices and
procedures to implement at our firm,” he said. “With our
firm’s even tighter controls now in place, we are setting a high
bar for the mortgage law provider industry, and our clients
recognize and value the positive steps we are taking.”  Bondi said the agreement with Watson is the first
settlement stemming from her office’s investigations. Half of
the $2 million settlement will go toward a Florida legal-aid
program that helps low-income homeowners facing foreclosure,
Meale said. The remainder will go to the attorney general to
cover its costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{David McLaughlin} in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  