-- 
Foreigners Bought Record $11 Billion of Japanese Stocks After Earthquake

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-03-25T06:34:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/foreigners-bought-record-11-billion-in-japanese-stocks-after-earthquake.html
Foreign investors bought a record
amount of Japanese stocks last week after the nation’s equities
markets tumbled in the wake of the March 11 earthquake and
resulting nuclear accident.  Foreign investors bought 891 billion yen ($11 billion) in
Japanese stocks in the week through March 18, the most since
comparable records began in 2005, according to the Ministry of
Finance in Tokyo. Looking at comparable data, this is
“substantially the most on record,” said Yoshihito Hidaka, an
official at the Ministry of Finance.  “For foreigners like us, the reason we bought  Japan  is
mainly because investors overreacted and it was oversold,” said
 Alex Au , managing director in  Hong Kong  of Richland Capital
Management Ltd., which oversees $300 million of assets. “That
doesn’t mean we’re actually bullish on the outlook for Japan. We
are just selectively buying stocks that were oversold and will
benefit.”  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average tumbled 10 percent to 9,206.75
last week after the quake, tsunami and ongoing nuclear crisis
raised concern Japan’s economy will falter. The sell-off drove
the average valuation of 1,666 shares listed on the Topix index
to 0.91 times book value in the week, the lowest since March 16,
2009.  Cheap Stocks  “Foreigners are probably not necessarily bullish, but are
thinking they can buy some cheap stocks at that moment,” said
Richland’s Au, who increased his exposure to Japanese stocks to
15 percent from between 5 percent and 10 percent before the
quake. “I’m won’t be surprised if the market bounces back to
the pre-quake level as they unload their positions.”  Au bought shares that may benefit from rebuilding,
including Komatsu Ltd. and Nippon Steel Corp., Japan’s largest
steelmaker, as well as Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. He said he sold
Japanese financial stocks because of their risk amid increasing
bad debt.  Foreign investors bought 955 billion yen more Japanese
stocks than they sold last week, the most since March 2004,
according to data from the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange today. Foreign
institutional investors, who represent  70 percent  of  stock
trading  in Japan, were weekly net buyers of the nation’s stocks
from Oct. 29 through March 18, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the longest streak since the 26 weeks through
Dec. 9, 2005.  Japanese Investors  “Reactions from overseas I got through exchanging e-mails
after the quake were surprisingly positive,” Tokyo Stock
Exchange Group Inc. President  Atsushi Saito  said at a regular
press briefing on March 22. Overseas investors had been net
buyers of shares on the exchange during the March 14 and 15
rout, Saito said in a note on the bourse’s website on March 15.  “The positive flow into Japanese stocks hasn’t changed at
its core,” said Manabu Tamaru, a senior investment manager at
Baring Asset Management in Tokyo. “It’s fair to have a positive
view of valuations, with upside potential for cheap Japanese
stocks.”  Separately, Japanese investors bought more foreign assets
than they sold, showing that the yen’s climb to a post World-War
II high after the March 11 disaster wasn’t driven by
repatriation.  Purchases  of foreign assets, including bonds and notes,
exceeded sales by 291 billion yen from March 13-19, the  Finance
Ministry  said in a report in Tokyo today.  Yen Buying  “Some Japanese people are saying they want to leave Japan
and migrate to another country, as Japan is in an earthquake
zone and not secure enough,” said Richland’s Au. “If this is
their mindset, at least they will prefer investing overseas than
investing in Japan. They are little bit bearish on Japan’s
outlook because this type of quake can happen again.”  The report supports a case by Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  and Economic Minister Kaoru Yosano that the yen rose to a
record 76.25 against the dollar because of speculative trading,
not demand for the yen from Japanese at home.  The  International Monetary Fund  yesterday said Group of
Seven intervention for the first time in more than a decade was
“appropriate.”  “This confirms the view that speculative trading played
the major role for the yen to break a record last week,” said
Taisuke Tanaka, chief currency strategist at Nomura Securities
Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kan Nishizawa in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  