-- 
French Nuclear Watchdog Plans Fessenheim Decision in ‘Weeks’

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-03-25T16:53:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/french-nuclear-watchdog-plans-fessenheim-decision-in-weeks-.html
France ’s nuclear power watchdog
will “within weeks” announce a decision on whether to allow
the country’s oldest reactor to operate for another decade.  “It’s a recommendation that was formulated before the
events in Japan,” Andre-Claude Lacoste, head of the  Autorite de
Surete Nucleaire , said today at a press conference. “This won’t
prevent us from imposing new measures if there are lessons
learned from Japan.”  The regulator has completed inspections at the 900-megawatt
Unit 1 reactor at Fessenheim, located in northeastern France
near the German border, and allowed Electricite de France SA to
resume output pending the decision. The unfolding disaster at
Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant and  Germany ’s decision to close
its seven oldest reactors for three months have focused
attention on whether the reactor, which came on-line in 1978,
would be granted an extension.  Two Swiss cantons, or local regions, this week urged France
to halt the plant because of it age and its location in a
seismic area until its safety is verified. EDF operates the
country’s 58 reactors, including 34 of the 900-megawatt models.  President Nicolas Sarkozy today reaffirmed that the country
will carry out “stress tests” on its reactors and close any
that fail, as part of a European Union-wide test of the bloc’s
143 reactors following the accident in  Japan . Prime Minister
Francois Fillon asked the watchdog to perform the checks by the
end of the year and officials said today an attempt will be made
to harmonize tests for all EU reactors.  Tricastin Suitable  The ASN last year gave approval for the first time to run a
30-year-old reactor for another decade after Unit 1 at Tricastin
in southern France was found it “suitable.” The decision
wasn’t extend to all 34 900-megawatt reactors, which will have
to undergo the same inspection.  The ruling was the first step to “significantly extend”
the life of France’s existing commercial reactors that generate
almost 80 percent of the country’s power. They have an average
age of about 24 years. Prolonging lifetimes is cheaper than
building new reactors such as one EDF is developing in
Flamanville, Normandy, for about 5 billion euros ($7 billion).  Eleven nuclear reactors will reach a 40-year operating life
between 2015 and 2020, according to EDF’s annual report. EDF and
the safety body are in talks on measures needed to extend
reactors to beyond four decades, the ASN has said. Chief
Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  has estimated these could cost
about 600 million euros a reactor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris on   tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy 
at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  