-- 
FSA Said to Review Credit-Default Swaps in Market Abuse Probe

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-03-25T09:04:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/fsa-said-to-review-credit-default-swaps-in-market-abuse-probe.html
The U.K. Financial Services
Authority started a market-abuse probe into trading of credit-
default swaps on corporate debt, according to four people
familiar with the investigation.  The regulator requested information from market
participants to determine whether there’s been  insider trading 
involving the financial products, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the investigation isn’t public. Last
month, U.S. prosecutors said they would step up probes of
possible fraud involving credit default swaps and collateralized
debt obligations.  “Insider trading is a strong FSA priority,” Ian Mason, a
financial regulation partner at  Baker & McKenzie LLP  said in a
telephone interview in London. “Traditionally they’ve focused
on the equity market so CDS would be a departure from that.”  The FSA is cracking down on insider trading and has charged
17 defendants in four cases that will go to trial over the next
two years, according to its  business plan . Regulators targeted
swaps trades and short selling during the financial crisis as
companies, banks and governments complained that speculation
undermined the price of securities.  Chris Hamilton, an FSA spokesman, declined to comment. Last
month, a former Dresdner Kleinwort banker, whose deals were the
common thread to a more than yearlong insider-trading probe, was
sentenced to 40 months in jail, the longest prison term for the
crime in the U.K.  Credit-default swaps are derivatives that pay the buyer face
value if a borrower -- a country or a company -- defaults. In
exchange, the swap seller gets the underlying securities or the
cash equivalent.  Speculation Complaints  Governments in the 27-nation EU and lawmakers in the
European Parliament are considering measures to restrict trading
in so-called naked sovereign credit-default swaps following
complaints from politicians including German Chancellor Angela Merkel that speculation using the products has worsened the euro
area’s sovereign debt crisis.  U.S. criminal investigators will step up probes into
possible fraud involving collateralized debt obligations and
CDS, a federal prosecutor in  New York  said earlier this month.  Christopher Garcia, chief of the Securities and Commodities
Fraud Task Force in the U.S. Attorney’s Office in  Manhattan ,
said his office will spend this year investigating possible
fraud involving CDOs and CDSs.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission accused former
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  salesman Jon-Paul Rorech in 2009 of illegally
informing a hedge-fund manager about a bond sale so he could buy
credit-default swaps and profit from the announcement of a debt
restructuring by Dutch media company VNU Group BV. The case was
the first of its kind to involve swaps.  The judge presiding over the case ruled in June that there
was no evidence Rorech and Renato Negrin, a former Millienium
Partners LP portfolio manager, violated insider trading rules.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 