-- 
Fuel Shortage After Japan Earthquake Creates Midnight Queues for Gasoline

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 
2011-03-25T10:25:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/fuel-shortage-after-japan-earthquake-creates-midnight-queues-for-gasoline.html
Fuel shortages are hampering
efforts to get relief to as many as 260,000 people in shelters
two weeks after the country’s record 9.0 earthquake and tsunami
as motorists in some areas wait overnight to fill their cars.  “There is a severe shortage of gasoline,” Keiichi
Sakamoto, a spokesman for Fukushima prefecture’s disaster
headquarters said by phone. “People are lining up as early as
midnight the night before.”  While the main  expressway  between  Tokyo  and the most-
affected region opened yesterday morning for the first time
since the earthquake, residents without gasoline still can’t
reach shelters, Sakamoto said. The prefecture’s governor has
appeared on television to appeal to national authorities for aid
filling cars, he said.  The combined number of dead and missing from the March 11
disaster rose to 27,509 as of 3 p.m. local time, with the number
of confirmed deaths at 10,066, according to the  National Police
Agency  in Tokyo.  More than 23,000 people from Fukushima, the site of the
damaged Dai-Ichi nuclear plant that has leaked radiation into
the country’s vegetables and water supply, have relocated to
other prefectures, according to a United Nations report.  Bullet train lines within the area of northeastern  Japan 
resumed partial service yesterday, according to the websites of
 Iwate Prefecture  and  East Japan Railway Co.   Limited Supply  “While the situation is improving, gasoline is being
prioritized for emergency vehicles so supplies to the general
population are still limited,” Miyagi prefecture spokesman
Motoi Otsuki said today by telephone. “Lines are at least a few
hundred meters, sometimes circling around the block once or
twice.”  Cold weather has also complicated relief efforts, with
temperatures  forecast  to drop to minus 1 degree Celsius (30.2
degrees Fahrenheit) in Iwate prefecture overnight, and 1 degree
in Miyagi, the areas hardest hit by the tsunami.  There is enough food in areas affected by the disaster,
though necessities such as toothbrushes, powdered milk,
underwear, clothing and female products are still needed, Kazuo
Shimizu, a spokesman for Iwate prefecture’s disaster
headquarters, said by telephone today. There are 42,839 people
in 380 shelters in the area and 8,800 temporary homes are under
construction, he said.  Cracked Core  Japan’s nuclear regulator today said one reactor core at
the Fukushima power plant may be cracked and leaking radiation.
Two workers were hospitalized yesterday with radiation burns
after stepping in water near the No. 3 reactor, said Hidehiko Nishiyama, a spokesman at the Japan Nuclear and Industrial
Safety Agency.  Japan today advised more people living close to the nuclear
plant to evacuate because basic goods are in short supply, while
assuring them that radiation levels haven’t risen. The
recommendation applies to residents living between 20 kilometers
(12 miles) and 30 kilometers from the Dai-Ichi facility. The
government previously evacuated everyone living closer to the
plant.  Radioactive cesium above the government limit was found on
komatsuna, a leafy vegetable known as Japanese mustard spinach,
harvested in Tokyo’s Edogawa ward, authorities said yesterday.
That indicates radioactive elements have spread 220 kilometers
south of the Fukushima plant.  Wind Patterns  Weather will drive radiation from the Fukushima plant over
the Pacific Ocean today,  Austria ’s Meteorological and Geophysics
Center reported, citing data from the United Nations nuclear-
test ban treaty organization. Wind will carry the radionuclides
for a “short while” inland, the center said on its website.  Reactors at Fukushima may have released as much as 20
percent of the radioactive iodine and up to 60 percent of the
radioactive cesium that resulted from the Chernobyl meltdown in
1986, according to the report yesterday.  Tokyo authorities  have begun handing out bottled water to
families after determining that tap water may be unsafe for
babies. The government has also asked farmers to keep cows and
cattle in barns to prevent milk contamination.  Hong Kong ,  Singapore  and  Australia  have banned imports of
vegetables and fruits harvested in five quake-stricken
prefectures. Singapore suspended imports of milk and milk
products, seafood and meat from those areas of Japan. The U.S. 
authorized  seizure of spinach from four prefectures and milk
from Fukushima prefecture.  Lawmakers from the ruling  Democratic Party of Japan  met
yesterday to discuss measures to cope with the disaster, which
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has called the gravest since World War
II. Kan is considering setting up a reconstruction agency to
oversee relief and rebuilding after the quake caused damage
estimated at as much as 25 trillion yen ($309 billion), an
amount almost four times the hit imposed by  Hurricane Katrina  on
the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Osaka at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  