-- 
Gallas to Get Two-Year Tottenham Contract; Nani Says Flair Curbed: Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-03-25T08:20:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/gallas-to-get-two-year-tottenham-contract-nani-says-flair-curbed-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Gallas Gets Deal  William Gallas  is set to sign a new two-year contract at
Tottenham worth 2.5 million pounds ($4 million) a season, the
 Sun reported .  The French center-half will trigger a clause that lets him
extend his stay when he plays his 30th match for Spurs, and will
conclude a deal next month, the Sun said.  Fergie ‘Curbs Flair’  Manchester United winger Nani said manager Alex Ferguson
doesn’t encourage players to express themselves and that he’s
been forced to curb his natural flair at the club, the  Daily
Telegraph reported .  “Something of the street always remains, that is natural,
but it is not easy to show at United because Sir Alex does not
allow very much freedom,” the Telegraph cited Nani as telling
Spanish magazine Don Balon. “I cannot do the tricks and things
I did with my friends.”  Two Chase Pirlo  Chelsea and  Manchester City  want to sign Andrea Pirlo, who
is set to leave AC Milan on a free transfer after rejecting a
new contract, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Chelsea manager  Carlo Ancelotti  tried to sign the Italian
playmaker last year, while City coach  Roberto Mancini  feels
Pirlo would bring creativity and experience, the Mirror  said.  Houllier’s Law  At least eight Aston Villa players are considering their
future after manager  Gerard Houllier  moved to stop a slump in
form,  the Daily Mail reported .  Gabriel Agbonlahor, Stiliyan Petrov, Richard Dunne, James
Collins, Brad Friedel, Ashley and Luke Young and Stephen Warnock
are disgruntled after Houllier banned cell phones in the
dressing room, imposed severe financial penalties for rule
breaches and introduced a procedure for any player wanting to
contact team owner  Randy Lerner , the newspaper said.  Liverpool Wants Mexes  Liverpool has joined Arsenal, Chelsea and AC Milan in the
transfer clamor for Roma’s France defender Philippe Mexes, whose
contract expires in June, the  Mirror reported .  Liverpool’s Director of Football Damien Comolli believes he
can beat the competition and lure the center-half to Anfield,
the newspaper said. Liverpool’s caretaker manager  Kenny Dalglish 
is an admirer of Mexes, though is said to favor a move for
Bolton’s Gary Cahill, the Mirror added.  Bale’s Fitness Race  Gareth Bale faces a race to be fit for Tottenham’s April 5
Champions League quarterfinal against Real Madrid after
withdrawing from the Wales squad for tomorrow’s Euro 2012
qualifier against  England  because of a hamstring strain, the
 Guardian reported .  The winger played against West Ham last week in his first
full game since Jan. 16, having been sidelined with a back
problem for six weeks, but the latest setback threatens his
involvement against  Madrid , the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  