-- 
Gates Visit to Ramallah Marks First for U.S. Defense Secretary

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-03-25T10:31:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/gates-visit-to-ramallah-marks-first-for-u-s-defense-secretary.html
U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates
today became the first Pentagon chief to visit the West Bank
city of  Ramallah , home of the Palestinian Authority leadership,
as he advanced his argument for “bold action” toward peace.  Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Salaam Fayyad welcomed
Gates to his offices with an honor guard. In brief remarks
before their meeting, Gates said he was looking forward to
“talking about, obviously, the political developments around
the region, but also the prospects for a two-state solution.”  “This is a time of great challenge throughout the region,
but also a time for opportunity,” Fayyad said, echoing a
message that Gates trumpeted yesterday with Israeli leaders. The
trends require “a redoubling of the effort and pursuing the
cause of peace and justice and security.” He said he and Gates
would review the progress the  Palestinian Authority  has made
toward establishing the institutions needed for statehood.  The U.S. defense chief is on a mission to persuade Israeli
and Palestinian leaders to prevent further unrest in a Middle
East roiling with demonstrations and conflict.  Gates arrived in Ramallah after meetings yesterday and
early today in  Israel  with his Israeli counterpart, Ehud Barak,
President Shimon Peres and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
Gates is the first U.S. defense secretary to go to Ramallah,
Pentagon spokesman  Geoff Morrell  said.  The U.S. defense chief’s message risks being overtaken by
events, including a bus bombing two days ago in  Jerusalem  and a
series of rocket attacks from the Gaza Strip, which is
controlled by the Islamic group Hamas, rivals of Palestinian
Authority President Mahmoud Abbas’s Fatah party.  Israeli airstrikes on the  Gaza Strip  have killed 11
Palestinians, while Palestinians have fired more than 75 rockets
and shells into Israel, including at least six yesterday that
hit the south. The bomb planted near a Jerusalem bus stop two
days ago killed one person and injured at least 30. Israeli
officials blamed Palestinians for the attack.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in Jerusalem at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 