-- 
Geithner Says Research Credit Should Be Part of Tax Overhaul

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-03-25T20:36:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/geithner-says-research-credit-should-be-part-of-tax-overhaul.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said a proposed business research tax credit “should
be part of a comprehensive reform of the corporate tax system to
make American companies more competitive.”  Tax reform should eliminate “loopholes and preferences,”
and lower the tax rate on investments in the U.S., Geithner said
in a speech today at a manufacturing plant in Springdale,
Arkansas.  In the budget plan President Barack Obama released last
month, the administration proposed making the credit permanent
and increasing it. That could benefit such companies as  Amgen
Inc. (AMGN) ,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , all of which have lobbied
Congress for its extension.  The administration’s proposal would cost the government
$106.3 billion in forgone revenue over the next decade,
according to the Treasury Department. The agency released a
study today saying that each dollar spent on the credit by the
government generates a dollar in additional research conducted
by companies.  Geithner made his remarks at a plant owned by  NanoMech
Inc. , a nanotechnology manufacturing firm. He toured the factory
with U.S. Representative Steve Womack, an Arkansas Republican.  Earlier in the day Geithner met with business leaders from
companies including Bentonville, Arkansas-based  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, and Springdale, Arkansas-
based  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the Treasury said.  International Issues  Speaking to reporters about international issues, Geithner
said he was “not particularly concerned” about events in Japan
derailing the U.S. economic recovery.  “The principal concern that we have should be with the
immediate humanitarian” needs in Japan in the wake of the March
11 earthquake and tsunami, he said.  Geithner also said Portugal and other countries struggling
with  Europe ’s debt crisis will get the help they need from
authorities in the region.  “They’re trying to figure out how to give them enough
financial support with those reforms to fix their financial
systems, reduce their budget deficits and make their economies
more competitive, to make sure those reforms can actually work
over time,” Geithner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  