-- 
Genghis Khan Dentists Beat Welders, Capture Oddest Title Prize

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-03-25T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/genghis-khan-dentists-beat-welders-dog-trainer-in-u-k-odd-title-contest.html
Genghis Khan-inspired dentists
overcame welders, a Hollywood dog trainer and an Italian love
child to win one of Britain’s quirkiest literary contests, the
annual Diagram Prize for Oddest Book Title.  “ Managing a Dental Practice: The Genghis Khan Way ”
received 58 percent of 5,032 votes cast by the public, according
to the  Bookseller  trade magazine, which runs the contest.  The runner-up, with 24 percent, was “8th International
Friction Stir Welding Symposium Proceedings,” a collection of
papers presented at a gathering in  Germany . The other four
finalists garnered just 8 percent to 3 percent of the vote each,
Bookseller editors said in an e-mailed statement.  The winning title comes from a how-to guide on “survival
and empire-building in the dentistry business,” as its
publisher,  Radcliffe , calls it. The author, former dentist and
practice owner Michael R. Young, describes the Mongol conqueror
as “one of history’s most charismatic and dynamic leaders,”
arguing that dentists can learn from his tenacity, intelligence
gathering, and willingness to adopt new technologies.  The award’s administrator, Philip Stone, called the book
timely, given Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s plans to
restructure the U.K.’s state-run  National Health Service .  “Some practice owners may well have to adopt a more
warlord-ish approach to oral health care in order to survive,”
Stone said in the statement.  Other finalists included “What Color Is Your Dog?” by
Hollywood dog trainer  Joel Silverman , with 8 percent of the
vote, and romance novel “ The Italian’s One-Night Love-Child ”
with 4 percent. “ Myth of the Social Volcano ,” a book on
inequality in  China , and “ The Generosity of the Dead ,” a study
on organ procurement, got 3 percent each.  Claret Bottle  The contending titles were nominated by publishers,
booksellers, authors, agents and librarians. This year’s winner
was spotted by former biochemist and science writer  Michael
Gross , who will receive a bottle of “fairly passable” claret.  First awarded in 1978, the contest was conceived as a way
to avoid boredom at the Frankfurt Book Fair, Bookseller editors
say. The inaugural prize in 1978 went to “Proceedings of the
Second International Workshop on Nude Mice.”  Since 2000, the prize has been put to a public vote,
allowing “the unwashed masses to decide,” as a past Bookseller
release put it. Since then, winning titles have included
“Living With Crazy Buttocks” and “If You Want Closure in Your
Relationship, Start With Your Legs.”  Eccentricity overcame vulgarity over the past two years, 
as the prize went to “Crocheting Adventures With Hyperbolic 
Planes” and “ The 2009-2014 World Outlook for 60-Milligram 
Containers of Fromage Frais. ”  The prize has become an institution, generating two bound
collections of winning jackets, including “How to Avoid Huge
Ships: And Other Implausibly Titled Books.”  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 