-- 
German Business Confidence Probably Fell After Japan Earthquake

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-03-25T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/german-business-confidence-probably-fell-after-japan-earthquake.html
German business confidence probably
fell from a record high in March as  Japan ’s earthquake and the
prospect of higher borrowing costs increased uncertainty over
the economic outlook.  The  Ifo institute ’s business climate index, based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, will decline to 110.5 from 111.2 in
February, according to the median of 39 forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey. Last month’s reading was the highest since records
for a reunified Germany began in 1991. Ifo releases the report
at 10 a.m. in Munich.  German investor confidence unexpectedly dropped for the
first time in five months in March after the  European Central
Bank  said it may raise  interest rates  to curb inflation and
Japan’s biggest earthquake on record caused a slump in global
stocks. At the same time,  Germany ’s economy is booming as
executives increase spending and hiring to meet export orders
from emerging nations such as  China .  “The situation in Japan is going to make companies
cautious in coming months,” said Carsten Klude, head of
investment strategy at M.M. Warburg & Co. in Hamburg. “But if
that situation doesn’t escalate, the growth expectations for the
German economy are still very positive.”  Ifo’s gauge of the current situation may ease to 114.6 from
114.7 in March, while an index measuring executives’
expectations probably declined to 106.8 from 107.9, the survey
of economists shows. The Bundesbank predicts economic growth of
2.5 percent this year after a record 3.6 percent in 2010.  Shares Slide  Germany’s benchmark DAX share index tumbled the most in 10
months last week after Japan’s March 11 earthquake and
subsequent tsunami damaged cooling systems at an atomic power
plant, causing the worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl.  The disaster poses a threat not only for Japan “but for
the global economy as a whole,” the Bank of Finland said
yesterday.  Shares in Metro AG, Germany’s largest retailer, slumped on
March 22 after it said the global economic growth on which its
forecasts depend may be curbed by events in Japan and political
turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa.  The euro area is also struggling with a debt crisis that
may force  Portugal  to become the third member nation to seek a
bailout. Portuguese Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  tendered his
resignation on March 23 after plans to cut the  budget deficit 
were rejected by parliament.  Higher Earnings  Still, German companies including Deutsche Lufthansa AG and
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG are projecting higher earnings.  BMW, the world’s largest maker of luxury vehicles, said on
March 15 it aims to beat 2010’s record results this year.  Lufthansa said on March 17 that the company’s main airline
brand will probably increase operating profit as spending
reductions help make up for higher fuel costs caused by the jump
in  oil prices .  “Germany will continue to have very respectable growth
rates, even if it doesn’t quite perform as dynamically as it did
before,” said David Milleker, chief economist at Union
Investment GmbH in  Frankfurt . “A small weakening in business
confidence is not the end of the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  