-- 
Bunds Slump on Stock Advances, German Confidence; Portugal's Bonds Decline

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-03-25T16:31:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/german-bonds-drop-as-stocks-advance-eu-leaders-meet-to-tackle-debt-crisis.html
German 10-year  government bonds 
fell, posting their first weekly drop in three, as stock-market
gains boosted demand for higher-yielding assets.  Portugal’s 10-year yields rose to a euro-era record after
 Standard & Poor’s  cut the nation’s credit rating late yesterday.
Portugal doesn’t need a rescue, Prime Minister  Jose Socrates 
said after a European Union summit in Brussels today. He offered
to resign two days ago after lawmakers rejected his cost-cutting
plans. European loan growth accelerated last month, while German
business confidence stayed near a record in March, reports
showed today, fueling speculation the debt crisis won’t deter
policy makers from raising  interest rates  next month.  “We’re seeing a reduction in risk aversion, and that’s why
yields are heading higher,” said  Karsten Linowsky , a fixed-
income strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “The
fundamental economic picture is solid. The direction of yields
is likely to be upward.”  The German 10-year bund yield increased two basis points to
3.26 percent at 4:10 p.m. in London, while yields on two-year
notes were four basis points higher at 1.72 percent. The 10-year
yield has increased seven basis points since March 18. The Stoxx
Europe 600 Index rose 0.2 percent, posting its biggest weekly
drop since September.  Yields Surged  Portugal’s 10-year yield advanced as much as 14 basis
points to 7.80 percent. The difference in yield investors demand
to hold the securities instead of German bunds widened 10 basis
points to 451 basis points, the most since November. The
Portuguese two-year yield rose as much as 38 basis points to
7.09 percent. It was at 7.05 percent.  Yields surged yesterday after Socrates’s resignation stoked
concern the country may struggle to repay about 9 billion euros
($12.7 billion) of debt due by June.  Fitch Ratings  cut the
nation’s debt rating to A- from A+ yesterday, and S&P followed
with a downgrade to BBB, citing “increased political
uncertainty.”  Portuguese bonds have lost investors 5 percent this year,
compared with a loss of 1.8 percent by German government bonds,
according to indexes compiled by the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Greek bonds have
lost 1 percent this month, paring their gain since the end of
2010 to 1.4 percent. Spanish debt has gained 2.95 percent.  Socrates’ plans for cutting the  budget deficit  were
rejected by opposition leaders. President Anibal Cavaco Silva
was scheduled to  meet  political parties to discuss Socrates’s
resignation in Lisbon today.  The cost of insuring Portuguese debt jumped 16 basis points
to 545, according to CMA prices for credit-default swaps.  European Data  Loans to European households and companies rose 2.6 percent
from a year earlier after rising an annual 2.4 percent in
January, the  European Central Bank  said today. The rate of
growth in M3  money supply , which the ECB uses as a gauge of
future inflation, was 2 percent, the highest since August 2009.  German business confidence fell less than economists
forecast in March. The Munich-based Ifo institute said its
business climate index was at 111.1 this month, after climbing
to 111.3 in February, the highest reading since records for a
reunified  Germany  began in 1991. Economists expected a drop to
110.5, according to the median of 39 surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The European Stability Mechanism will involve bondholders
after mid-2013, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters
after an EU summit in Brussels, saying it was crucial to Germany
to bind in bondholders because taxpayers couldn’t be expected to
pay the bill alone in any future crises.  Leaders cut the startup capital for a program for future
emergency aid to 16 billion euros from the 40 billion euros
foreseen in a March 21 accord.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net 
Keith Jenkins in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  