-- 
Ifo German Business Confidence Index Falls Less Than Forecast After Quake

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-03-25T10:29:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/german-business-confidence-declines-on-prospect-of-higher-borrowing-costs.html
German business confidence fell
less than economists forecast in March, suggesting Japan’s
earthquake and higher borrowing costs may not damp growth in
 Europe ’s largest economy.  The Munich-based  Ifo institute  said its business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, declined to 111.1
from 111.3 in February, which was the highest reading since
records for a reunified  Germany  began in 1991. Economists
expected a drop to 110.5, according to the median of 39
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  German investor confidence unexpectedly fell for the first
time in five months in March after the  European Central Bank 
said it may raise  interest rates  to curb inflation and Japan’s
biggest earthquake on record caused a slump in global stocks. At
the same time, Germany’s economy is booming as executives
increase spending and hiring to meet export orders from emerging
nations such as  China .  “We can still expect very robust growth in Germany,” said
Eckart Tuchtfeld, an economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.
“Companies are now, however, taking an expected rise in
interest rates into account.”  The euro rose after Ifo’s report before retracing, trading
little changed at $1.4149 at 10:56 a.m. in Frankfurt.  Current Conditions  Ifo’s gauge of the current situation rose to 115.8 from
114.8 in March, while an index measuring executives’
expectations declined to 106.5 from 107.9.  The Bundesbank predicts economic growth of 2.5 percent this
year after a record 3.6 percent in 2010.  Germany’s benchmark DAX share index tumbled the most in 10
months last week after  Japan ’s March 11 earthquake and
subsequent tsunami damaged cooling systems at an atomic power
plant, causing the worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl in
1986.  Ifo President Hans-Werner Sinn said half of the responses
to this month’s survey came in after the nuclear disaster
unfolded, dragging down the expectations gauge. “In general,
sentiment is fantastic,” he told Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg
Television’s “Countdown” from Munich today.  German companies including Deutsche Lufthansa AG and
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG are projecting higher earnings.  BMW, the world’s largest maker of luxury vehicles, said on
March 15 it aims to beat 2010’s record results this year.  Higher Earnings  Lufthansa said on March 17 that the company’s main airline
brand will probably increase operating profit as spending
reductions help make up for higher fuel costs caused by the jump
in  oil prices .  Overall, profits at German companies are headed for the
highest level on record, with earnings at DAX-listed companies
forecast to climb 19 percent in the next 12 months, according to
more than 2,000 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Still, shares in Metro AG, Germany’s largest retailer,
slumped on March 22 after it said the global economic growth on
which its forecasts depend may be curbed by events in Japan and
political turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa.  The euro area is also struggling with a debt crisis that
may force  Portugal  to become the third member nation to seek a
bailout. Portuguese Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  tendered his
resignation on March 23 after plans to cut the  budget deficit 
were rejected by parliament.  “Germany will continue to have very respectable growth
rates, even if it doesn’t quite perform as dynamically as it did
before,” said David Milleker, chief economist at Union
Investment GmbH in  Frankfurt . “A small weakening in business
confidence is not the end of the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  