-- 
Google Library Case Loss May Spur Demands for Antitrust Probe

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-03-25T14:20:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/google-library-case-loss-may-spur-demands-for-antitrust-probe.html
A judge’s rejection of  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s bid to create the world’s biggest digital library will
reinforce demands by company detractors for a federal antitrust
investigation into its business practices, legal analysts said.  Google’s opponents will cite the ruling to support claims
the company is seeking to control the Internet search market,
Herbert Hovenkamp, a professor at the University of Iowa College
of Law in Iowa City, said in an interview. The decision “will
strengthen the hand of those who want to do an antitrust
investigation.”  U.S. Circuit Judge Denny Chin on March 22 struck down a
$125 million settlement between Google and publishers and
authors to create a digital library, saying the deal would be
unfair to authors. The  Mountain View , California-based company,
owner of the world’s most popular search engine, also has been
accused of reducing competition in the search industry.  Attorneys general  in Ohio and  Wisconsin  are weighing
investigations, and  Herb Kohl , chairman of a Senate Judiciary
antitrust subcommittee, is planning to examine the company’s
conduct.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and other Google rivals are members of
 FairSearch.org , a group that opposes the company’s planned
acquisition of Cambridge, Massachusetts-based ITA Software Inc.,
which provides online data for airline ticket prices.  EU Investigation  Microsoft’s  Ciao from Bing , French legal search engine
 Ejustice.fr  and Foundem, a U.K. price-comparison website, have
filed complaints with the European Union. The EU is
investigating whether Google is unfairly ranking its services
higher than rivals in search results.  Google has defended its business strategy and accused
Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft of a campaign to undermine
the Internet search company.  Jonathan Jacobson, an antitrust lawyer working for Google,
said that Chin’s ruling would hurt computer users.  “It is going to deprive consumers of the huge benefits
that the settlement would have generated,” Jacobson, a New
York-based lawyer at  Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati , said on
Bloomberg Television. “If Microsoft is out there trying to
degrade the quality of  Google search , do consumers benefit from
that?” he said. “No, they don’t.”  Jacobson declined to comment on how Google will proceed
legally.  Google’s focus should be on regulators, not rivals, said
Charles “Rick” Rule, a Washington-based  attorney  who
represents Microsoft, in a statement.  “Google’s antitrust problems are with the federal courts,
the  U.S. Department of Justice , state attorneys general, and the
European Commission, all of whom have raised concerns about
Google’s monopolistic conduct,” said Rule, head of the
antitrust group at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP.  Rare Searches  In reaching its now-voided settlement with publishers and
authors, Google disguised its real purpose for scanning rare and
out-of-print books, said Gary Reback, co-founder of the  Open
Book Alliance . The group includes libraries, authors and
publishers as well as Microsoft, Amazon.com Inc. and Yahoo! Inc.  Google’s intent was to create an unfair advantage by
scanning books without getting copyright permission, said
Reback, an antitrust attorney for  Menlo Park , California-based
Carr & Ferrell LLP whose clients include Foundem. The scans then
could be used to tweak the mathematical formulas that enable
rapid retrieval of information about rare books, he said.  “Google puts itself in a position to answer those rare
queries in a way no other competitor could,” Reback said.  Hovenkamp said that doesn’t necessarily suggest
anticompetitive behavior. Google is “putting together a product
so attractive for customers that customers want to go with it,”
he said.  ‘Not a Court Case’  The books decision also focus on issues, such as copyright
and class-action law, that don’t apply to a broader
anticompetitive argument, said Adam Kovacevich, a Google
spokesman, in an interview.  The ruling likely won’t be a foundation for a broader case
against Google, said James  Grimmelmann , an associate professor
of New York Law School and a critic of the Google books deal.  “This will be useful to Google’s detractors in building a
case in the court of public opinion but not a court case,” he
said. Legal analysts noted that the judge’s discussion of
antitrust consumed only three pages of a 46-page opinion.  “It was a very minor point,” said Scott  Gant , a partner
at Boies, Schiller & Flexner in  Washington  who filed the first
major objection to the Google Books deal. “This isn’t a kind of
sea change” in federal court views of Google.  Still, the decision did show “Google can be defeated,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  