-- 
Li & Fung Slumps in Hong Kong After Profit Misses Estimates

-- B y   W e n d y   L e u n g
-- 
2011-03-25T10:47:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/li-fung-slumps-in-hong-kong-after-2010-profit-misses-analysts-estimates.html
Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the biggest
supplier to retailers from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to  Esprit
Holdings Ltd. (330) , plunged by the most in a year in Hong Kong
trading after 2010 profit missed analyst estimates.  Li & Fung declined 9.1 percent to HK$39.05, the most since
March 25 last year, while the benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI) 
gained 1 percent. The stock has gained 4.7 percent in the past
year, lagging behind the index’s 11.5 percent increase.  The outsourcer yesterday reported net income rose 27
percent to HK$4.28 billion ($549 million) last year, missing
all nine analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey. The average
forecast was for HK$5.03 billion profit. Li & Fung may buy
logistics companies as it seeks to more than double operating
profit at its main business to $1.5 billion by 2013.  Analysts may have “overestimated the contribution” of
acquisitions and outsourcing deals made last year, said  Matthew Marsden , a Hong Kong-based consumer analyst at Samsung
Securities Co., who downgraded Li & Fung. “Earnings downgrades
should lead to a period of underperformance for the shares,”
he said, lowering the stock’s rating to “sell” from “hold.”  Outsourcing Deals  The Hong Kong-based company will continue to make
acquisitions this year, Group Managing Director William Fung
said yesterday. Li & Fung will is considering companies in the
logistics as well as the health and beauty industries,
President Bruce Rockowitz said.  “There are opportunities everywhere,” Rockowitz said in
a phone interview late yesterday. “We have businesses all over
 Asia , the U.S. and  Europe . The connectivity between all these
different areas is part of our logistics business,” which is
expanding, he said.  The supplier of Inditex SA’s Zara and Marks & Spencer Plc
completed 16 purchases and “a number” of outsourcing and
licensing deals last year, some of which weren’t announced,
Rockowitz said at a briefing yesterday. Announced deals last
year were worth at least $1.24 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The outsourcer, founded as a porcelain and silk trader in
southern  China  in 1906 near the end of the Qing dynasty, also
signed a supply agreement with Wal-Mart last year. The deal may
contribute $2 billion in revenue this year, Rockowitz said
today.  Wal-Mart Deal  “We don’t believe the market will give credit to the
company for the full 2013 target of $1.5 billion,” said Aaron Fischer, a Hong Kong-based analyst for CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets. “It seems very likely that 2011 consensus earnings
will be reduced materially, which will cause the stock to be
down.”  Sales in 2010 rose 19 percent to HK$124 billion 
($16 billion), missing the $20 billion target Li & Fung set 
for itself before the financial crisis.  The Wal-Mart deal has been “slower to ramp up than
expected,” Fischer, Huei Suen Ng and Mariana Kou said in a
note to clients dated March 21.  Supplying to Wal-Mart, the world’s biggest company by
sales, is a high-volume, low-margin business, Rockowitz said.  Rockowitz said Li & Fung still has about $1 billion in its
acquisition fund. He’s also looking at opportunities to expand
the company’s onshore business, which provides services
including designing and importing goods for clients such as U.S.
retailers  Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)   Rising Prices  Contribution to operating profit from the logistics
business is expected to reach $100 million in three years,
accounting for about 7 percent of the targeted operating profit
of the company’s main businesses. Li & Fung bought out
 Integrated Distribution Services Group Ltd. (2387)  last year to gain a
network in China and other Asian nations.  The purchase of Integrated Distribution Services was its
biggest in at least the past decade, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The supplier will also benefit from rising prices,
Rockowitz said. Consumer-goods factories worldwide may raise
prices as much as 30 percent this year because of higher labor
and material costs, he said.  Higher prices will be passed on to the company’s customers,
he said. Price increases “won’t just happen this year, they
will probably continuously increase over the next three years,
based on what’s happening in China, based on commodities
prices,” Rockowitz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Leung in  Hong Kong  at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  