-- 
Investa Said to Near Accord on Taking Over Management of ING Office Fund

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-03-25T03:55:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/investa-property-said-to-near-purchase-of-management-of-ing-office-fund.html
Investa Property Group , a real-
estate firm owned by  Morgan Stanley (MS) , is nearing an agreement to
take over management of an Australian commercial property fund
from  ING Groep NV (INGA) , two people with knowledge of the matter said.  ING Groep proceeded with discussions with Investa because
rival offers to fully acquire Sydney-traded ING Office Fund,
which manages $2.7 billion of assets in  Australia , the U.S. and
 Europe , included stock rather than cash only, said one of the
people, who declined to be identified as talks are private. A
deal with Investa may be announced on March 28, the people said,
declining to provide details on the structure of the transaction.  The Sydney Morning Herald newspaper yesterday said that
Investa was expected to announce a deal that will create a new
A$9 billion ($9.2 billion) office trust. The Australian
Financial Review today reported the bid was facing a challenge
from another potential suitor, with investors seeking an offer
close to the value of net tangible assets.  ING Groep, the biggest Dutch financial-services company,
last month agreed to sell most of its real-estate investment
management unit to CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. for $940 million
to shrink its balance sheet. ING Management, which oversees the
 ING Office Fund (IOF) , said in a March 24 statement to the Australian
stock exchange that it’s in “well progressed” talks about the
management of the fund, without naming any other party.  Shares of ING Office Fund, which has a market value of
A$1.57 billion, were halted in Sydney on March 24 pending an
announcement.  Investa’s offer is worth less than the fund’s net tangible
assets, one of the people said today.  They declined to say whether Investa will pay cash for
taking over management of ING Office Fund. Johannna Keating, a
spokeswoman for ING’s real-estate unit in Sydney, and Emily Lee-
Waldao, an Investa spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return calls
seeking comment.  Investa, which controls real-estate assets of about A$7.4
billion according to its website, in November 2009 scrapped a
A$1 billion initial public offering of an Australian office fund
after investors balked at the price.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  