-- 
Mirae Asset’s Sit Sees No Fast Rate Hikes in Asia

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-03-25T20:27:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/mirae-asset-s-sit-sees-no-fast-rate-hikes-in-asia-correct-.html
(Corrects company name in the lead of March 24 story.)  Wilfred Sit, who helps oversee $9
billion as head of  Asia  Pacific investment strategy at Mirae
Asset Global Investments ( Hong Kong ) Ltd., comments on the
outlook for Asian economies and currencies in an interview in
New York.  On currencies:  “Among major Asian currencies, India’s rupee, Indonesia
Rupiah and the Korean won are all under appreciation pressure.
They don’t want to appreciate too fast against the Chinese yuan
to lose competitiveness. The Korean won, especially, is very
much undervalued.  “We are not likely to see very sharp appreciation in these
currencies because currency stability is important for Asia,
which means they’re not likely to raise  interest rates 
dramatically. They’ll use other methods, such as administrative
measures, to control inflation.”  On inflation in the Asian region:  “Inflation in Asia is likely to peak by the second
quarter. We’re seeing food price inflation start to peak. Food
supply has started to pick up. Also, the Asian governments are
proactive in implementing tightening policies. Asia is basically
the first (place) in the world to have tightening policies.  “Among Asian countries, inflation pressure is more serious
in  India . It has a big fiscal deficit by Asian standards. It
also has to import oil. India has a less efficient economy than
 China . Its economy has some bottlenecks.  “China has overcapacity, so the ability to absorb
inflation is higher. Right now China’s inflation is mostly
caused by food prices. Also, China has implemented various kinds
of credit tightening policies.  “Asian countries would prefer inflation than deflation.
Their policies are tuned to economic growth. Because of that,
they don’t mind tolerating a certain level of inflation. This is
different from places like the European Union, where the key
target is price stability, while it’s jobs in the U.S.”  On the impact of  Japan ’s nuclear failure:  “The long-term implications of Japan’s earthquake are more
significant on the nuclear power segment. All countries will
rethink their policy. China and India have very big buildups of
nuclear plants, especially China, which is the world’s largest
nuclear power market.  “Premier  Wen Jiabao  said he would slow down the approvals
of nuclear projects, the implication is other kinds of
alternative energy would benefit from this. Governments around
the world may tone down their investments in nuclear power and
give more incentives to people who switch to solar power. So
solar power, wind power, even existing energy sources like coal
or LNG will benefit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 Lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  