-- 
Irish Central Bank’s Moran Shifted to Advise Government

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-03-25T13:48:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/irish-central-bank-s-moran-shifted-to-advise-government.html
John Moran, the Irish central
bank’s head of wholesale bank supervision, has been temporarily
transferred to the  Finance Ministry  to advise on
shrinking the balance sheets of debt-laden lenders.  A former executive with  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) ’s
capital markets and Zurich Bank units, Moran joined the Dublin-
based central bank in July. Among his functions was to lead a
review on how Irish banks, heavily reliant on central bank
funding, will be deleveraged, a spokeswoman for the bank said.  Moran, 44, will help the Finance Ministry “deal with the
bank restructuring agenda and various associated issues,”
according to an internal memo circulated in the ministry this
week. A ministry spokesman verified the contents of the memo.  As part of its 85 billion-euro ($120 billion) bailout in
November, Ireland agreed to shrink the country’s banks by
selling assets. The nation’s so-called viable lenders, including
Bank of Ireland Plc,  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) ,  Irish Life &
Permanent Plc  and EBS Building Society, need to cut their loan-
to-deposit ratios to 123 percent from 170 percent, according to
Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan .  Moran’s move to the Finance Ministry “is a signal that the
government is looking to put a strong focus on coordinating
various arms of the state, from the department to the National
Treasury Management Agency and the central bank, to dealing with
the banking problems,” said Frank O’Dwyer, chief executive
officer of the Irish Association of Investment Managers.  It marks the first key appointment to the ministry since
Noonan was named finance minister this month. Noonan and Moran
weren’t available to comment, a spokesman said today.  Irish-based lenders’ reliance on short-term European
Central Bank cash soared 38 percent to 116.9 billion euros in
the year through February, while their dependence on the Irish
central bank jumped almost fivefold to 70.1 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 