-- 
Irish Banks May Need 27.5 Billion Euros More Aid, Analysts Say

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-03-25T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/irish-banks-may-need-27-5-billion-euros-more-aid-analysts-say.html
Ireland’s government may have to
inject an additional 27.5 billion euros ($39 billion) into the
country’s banks after a third round of stress tests next week,
according to a survey of analysts and economists.  That will exhaust about 80 percent of the  35 billion-euro 
fund set up last year in Ireland’s international bailout to
shore up the country’s lenders, according to the median estimate
of 10 analysts and economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Ireland, which has injected  46.3 billion euros  into its
banks over the past two years, will on March 31 publish the
results of the tests, which examine how banks would manage bad
loans and losses from forced asset sales. Matthew Elderfield,
the country’s top financial regulator, pledged this week the
assessment would be more “conservative” and transparent than
the last two rounds. Irish banks still are still dependent on
emergency central bank funding after their loan losses exceeded
the estimates of previous stress tests.  “The numbers from the stress tests, if anything, are going
to be too pessimistic, simply because they have to be in order
to have any chance of the market believing them,” said Eoin Fahy, chief economist at Kleinwort Benson Investors Dublin Ltd.,
which has about 4 billion euros of assets under management. He
estimates banks will need 22.5 billion euros.  Irish-based lenders’ reliance on short-term European
Central Bank cash soared 38 percent to 116.9 billion euros in
the year through February, while their dependence on the Irish
central bank jumped almost fivefold to 70.1 billion euros.  Viable Lenders  The country’s four so-called viable lenders -- Bank of
Ireland Plc,  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , Irish Life & Permanent Plc
and EBS Building Society -- will need to keep their core Tier 1
capital ratio, a measure of financial strength, to at least 10.5
percent in the tests.  The assessment’s includes, in the worst case, a 60 percent
decline in  house prices  from their peak, a 1.6 percent drop in
gross domestic product this year and a 16 percent unemployment
rate in 2012. The European Commission estimates Irish GDP will
grow 0.9 percent this year, while the joblessness rate will
decline to 12.7 percent in 2012.  Patrick Honohan , the central bank governor, has ruled out
any fire sales of assets to bolster lenders’ capital because the
state can’t afford the losses the disposals would crystallize,
leaving the government with little choice except injecting
capital into banks. Lenders would require as much as 20 billion
euros of additional capital if they were forced to sell assets
rapidly, according to estimates by Dublin-based brokerage Davy.  Anglo Irish  The four Dublin-based banks may need 24.3 billion euros,
 Emer Lang , a Davy analyst, said in a note to clients March 23.  Anglo Irish Bank Corp., which was nationalized in January
2009, isn’t being stress-tested, according to the central bank.
Still, Ireland may need to inject a further 3.4 billion euros
into the lender to ensure it has enough capital to meet a worst-
case scenario regulators outlined in September in which the bank
would require a total of 34.3 billion euros, according to Lang.  The previous government had already injected 29.3 billion
euros into Anglo Irish to meet a base-case loss scenario. The
bank raised a further 1.6 billion euros from a junior bond swap,
completed in December.  BlackRock Inc.’s BlackRock Solutions unit is leading the
tests, while Italian and French regulatory authorities and
Boston Consulting will review the results alongside the
 International Monetary Fund , the European Commission and  ECB .  Sovereign Hit  The Irish government set aside 35 billion euros of the 85
billion-euro international rescue package it received in
November to prop up the country’s banks, which are grappling
with soaring bad-loan losses following the implosion of a
domestic real-estate bubble.  The stress-test figures “need to be credible and an
initial recapitalization of up to 20 billion euros allows for a
pretty pessimistic loan-loss scenario,” said  Michael Cummins , a
director at Glas Securities, a Dublin-based fixed-income firm.
His estimate excludes losses from forced-asset sales, because he
expects the Irish and European Union authorities will find a way
to avoid fire sales.  “You are getting into dangerous territory if the total
figure is much higher than that,” Cummins said. “The sovereign
could be hit by further downgrades.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 