-- 
Ivory Coast Unrest Forces Up to 1 Million to Flee Abidjan, UN Estimates

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-03-25T16:15:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/ivory-coast-unrest-forces-up-to-1-million-to-flee-abidjan-un-estimates.html
As many as 1 million people have
fled violence in Ivory Coast’s commercial capital, Abidjan, the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said, as  France ’s
ambassador to the UN warned the West African nation was “very
close to civil war.”  Escalating insecurity following a disputed presidential
election Nov. 28 has led to “a sharp rise in displacement,”
Melissa Fleming, a spokeswoman for the UNHCR, told reporters in
Geneva today. Between 700,000 and one million people have no
fled the city, she said.  While the international community recognizes  Alassane Ouattara , 69, as the winner of the election, incumbent  Laurent Gbagbo , 65, refuses to concede defeat, alleging voter fraud.
France called for a UN Security Council meeting today on the
conflict and is circulating a draft resolution that would let UN
peacekeepers use “all necessary measures” to protect
civilians, according to diplomats who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the text hasn’t been made public.  France’s ambassador to the UN,  Gerard Araud , told reporters
the country faced a ‘humanitarian tragedy’ as it moved towards
war.  ‘Horrendous’ Suffering  Senior UN officials including the high commissioner for
refugees, Antonio Guterres, said fighting and “massive
population displacement” may spill over into neighboring
 Liberia . Speaking yesterday in the Liberian capital Monrovia,
they warned that rival Ivorian camps may try to recruit
mercenaries in Liberia and smuggle weapons across its borders.  “This conflict has to stop,” Guterres said in a  statement 
after meeting Ivorian refugees in eastern Liberia, where the
UNHCR says more than 90,000 people have sought shelter. “The
amount of human suffering is horrendous. All neighboring
countries can be dramatically impacted.”  The Geneva-based UN Human Rights Council today passed a
Nigerian proposal to launch an independent commission of inquiry
to investigate “allegations of serious abuses and violations of
human rights,” according to a statement on its  website .  At least 52 people, including five children and seven
women, have been killed in  Ivory Coast  since March 17, the UNHCR
said in a statement from Geneva. The agency said at least 462
people have died in fighting in the West African nation and that
the situation is deteriorating.  Health Care  Doctors Without Borders  said spiraling violence in Ivory
Coast is threatening the population’s access to health care as
medical workers flee and supplies and drugs become unavailable.  Health authorities in Abidjan say almost all medical
workers in six hospitals have fled and only one facility in the
Abobo neighborhood is functional, according to the international
medical organization. Medical teams there have treated 273
emergency patients in the past three weeks, 225 of whom had
bullet wounds, Doctors Without Borders said in a statement.  The UNHCR expressed specific concern about a call to arms
by Charles Ble Goude, the leader of the Young Patriots, a youth
movement that supports Gbagbo. Ble Goude called on the youth to
join the army and “liberate the country” from their opponents,
the UNHCR said.  At least 5,000 young people this week queued up to enlist
in the army.  “This is a worrying development with potentially severe
implications for the already deteriorating human-rights
situation in the country,” the UNHCR said.  With reporting by Jason McLure in Accra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 