-- 
Ivory Coast Cocoa Disruptions Are of ‘Great Concern,’ ICCO Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-03-25T17:31:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/ivory-coast-cocoa-disruptions-are-of-great-concern-icco-says.html
Ivory Coast  cocoa disruptions are
of “great concern” to chocolate makers as some farmers can’t
sell their beans from the world’s largest grower, International
Cocoa Organization Executive Director Jean-Marc Anga said.  Supplies from the West African nation have been disrupted
since Jan. 24 when  Alassane Ouattara , the internationally
recognized winner of a Nov. 28 presidential election, imposed an
export ban on cocoa to cut off funds for incumbent President
 Laurent Gbagbo  who refuses to step down. Beans registered for
export from the country were down 94 percent in the two weeks to
March 17, according to an official with access to the data.  “If for a number of months no cocoa comes out of Ivory
Coast, eventually this will be a serious matter,” Anga said at
a press conference in  London  today.  Cocoa prices have climbed 13 percent in London since the
election. The Ouattara government has appointed Aly Toure as its
representative for commodities in London and he attended ICCO
meetings this week, Anga said.  As many as 1 million people have fled violence in Ivory
Coast’s commercial capital, Abidjan, the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees said, as  France ’s ambassador to the UN
warned the West African nation was “very close to civil war.”
The Ivory Coast harvests its main crop starting in October and
usually has a smaller one starting in April.  Ghana Exports  Cocoa supply disruptions from Ivory Coast are benefiting
producers in Ghana, the second-biggest grower, according to Tony Fofie, chief executive officer of the  Ghana  Cocoa Board. Exports
this year may increase to 600,000 metric tons from 400,000 tons
in 2010, Fofie said in an interview at the press conference
today. Ghana plans to increase production to 1 million tons in
the next two years, he said.  Cocoa production will exceed demand by 119,000 tons in the
2010-11 season that started Oct. 1, the ICCO said in its first
estimate for the current crop on March 1. The shortage a year
earlier was 66,000 tons, it said. Output in Ivory Coast was
expected to rise 6.7 percent to 1.325 million tons, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 