-- 
Japan Bond Futures Gain for Third Week as Central Bank Injects Record Cash

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-03-25T21:53:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/japan-s-bond-futures-gain-a-third-week-as-central-bank-injects-record-cash.html
Japan ’s bond futures gained for a
third week on speculation the central bank will keep borrowing
costs low as the government assesses funding sources for
reconstruction after the country’s biggest earthquake.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 40-year debt
instead of five-year securities was within two basis points of
the widest in a year as the  Bank of Japan  injected a record
amount of funds into the financial system after the March 11
quake. Bonds were also bolstered as bids increased at an auction
of two-year notes this week.  “Expectations are rising that the central bank will have
to continue the low interest-rate policy longer,” said Makoto Noji, a senior debt and foreign-exchange strategist at Nikko
Cordial Securities Inc. in  Tokyo . “Demand for a safe haven has
spurred buying of bonds” with shorter maturities.  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery rose 0.06 this week
to 139.80 at the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Financial markets were
closed on March 21 for a holiday.  The benchmark five-year yield declined 1.5 basis points to
0.465 percent at Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest
interdealer debt broker. The 0.6 percent note due March 2016
added 0.072 to 100.656 yen. Ten-year yields rose one basis point
to 1.22 percent.  The Bank of Japan’s 40 trillion yen ($494 billion) of
successive one-day cash injections from March 14 to March 22
helped increase lenders’ deposits at the central bank to a
record. The BOJ maintained its overnight lending rate last week
at a range of between zero and 0.1 percent and doubled the size
of its fund that bought assets including  government bonds  and
corporate debt.  Yield Spread  The yield spread between 40-year debt and five-year
securities was 1.85 percentage points after expanding to 1.87
percentage points on March 15, the most since March 2010.  The 2.6 trillion-yen auction of two-year notes on March 24
drew bids valued at 4.77 times the amount on offer, up from a
ratio of 3.70 at the offering in February.  Japan may need to consider compiling an extra budget within
a month to help pay for reconstruction efforts after the
earthquake, Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano 
said yesterday. A combination of funding sources may need to be
mulled, including spending cuts, a review of taxes and bond
issuance, he said.  Japan’s damage from the magnitude 9.0 earthquake and
subsequent tsunami was estimated at as much as 25 trillion yen,
a government report showed on March 23, an amount almost four
times the cost of  Hurricane Katrina  in the U.S.  The gain in bonds was tempered as speculation the global
economy is improving boosted shares. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock
Average climbed 3.6 percent this week.  “Expectations for a global economic recovery are largely
intact, which is a catalyst for bond yields to rise,” Nikko’s
Noji said. “Domestic investors are reluctant to trade before
the end of this fiscal year” as financial companies are closing
their books and preparing earnings reports, he said.  Japan’s business year ends on March 31 for most companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net  