-- 
Libya Rebels Target Sirte as NATO Jets Hit Qaddafi Hometown

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-03-28T14:53:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/jets-from-france-britain-strike-libya-ground-forces-as-nato-takes-control.html
Libyan rebel forces advanced
westward with support from NATO air strikes on Sirte, the
hometown of  Muammar Qaddafi , as the Western alliance prepared to
take over command of military operations from the U.S.  The rebels were fighting within 100 kilometers (60 miles)
of Sirte, and their scouts reported that the road ahead was
heavily mined, the  Associated Press  said. Nine blasts rocked the
coastal town today as planes were heard above, according to an
Agence France-Presse reporter in Sirte. In the west, government
forces continued to bomb Misrata after announcing a cease-fire
in the rebel-held town, Al Jazeera television reported.  “Russia and other countries skeptical that at least some
members of the coalition intend to enforce regime change rather
than merely a no-fly zone will continue to object from the
sidelines,” David Hartwell, an analyst in  London  with
Lexington, Massachusetts-based IHS Global Insight, wrote in a
research note today. “With opposition territorial gains set to
continue against this backdrop, the issue of what happens if and
when the rebels reach Tripoli is beginning to loom large, with
Qaddafi appearing to have few options beyond fighting or
fleeing.”  The advance on Sirte extends the rebel offensive along the
coast that saw them recapture the oil ports of Brega and Ras
Lanuf, helped by the U.S.-led aerial bombardment of government
positions in the area. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization
said yesterday it has taken over military control of the
operation. A U.S. official said the mission is restricted to the
United Nations mandate to protect civilians and enforce an arms
embargo, and doesn’t include aiding rebel forces seeking to
recapture territory from Qaddafi.  Russian Comment  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said allied strikes
on Qaddafi’s troops are an intervention in a civil war and
violate the UN resolution that authorized use of force, RIA
Novosti reported today.  The coalition has been seeking to push Qaddafi’s forces out
of cities including Misrata. French fighter aircraft struck the
Qaddafi forces’ armored vehicles and weapons near Misrata and
Zintan yesterday, according to France’s Defense Ministry
website. Misrata has been besieged by pro-Qaddafi forces for
several weeks.  The city of Sebha, south of Tripoli, was bombed today and
several homes were destroyed, said the official Libyan news
agency, JANA.  Crude Prices  The conflict in Libya, holder of  Africa ’s largest crude
reserves, has pushed  oil prices  up about 25 percent since it
began last month. NATO’s intervention comes as unrest spreads
throughout the Middle East, with deadly clashes between
protesters and regime supporters in Syria, Yemen, Bahrain and
Jordan, following the ouster of oppressive regimes by popular
movements in  Egypt  and  Tunisia .  Crude oil fell for a third day in  New York  on speculation
that the rebels’ territorial gains may hasten a resolution to
the crisis. Crude for May delivery declined $1.64, or 1.6
percent, to $103.76 a barrel at 9:30 a.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Some Sirte tribes that are traditionally loyal to Qaddafi
declared they were siding with the rebel fighters, who met with
little resistance as they approached the outskirts of the city,
Arish Saeed, a journalist in Sirte, told  Al Arabiya  television.
The information couldn’t be independently verified because phone
lines in  Libya  were down.  Rebels advancing from the east have taken control of the
town of Nawfaliyah, about 100 kilometers from Sirte, the
Benghazi-based Brnieq newspaper reported citing its
correspondent.  NATO Commander  NATO’s supreme allied commander, U.S. Navy Admiral James Stavridis, will take charge of the alliance mission in Libya,
and decisions on what targets to hit will be determined by the
council’s military leaders, the U.S. official said yesterday.
Allied strikes yesterday targeted the capital, Tripoli, as well
as Sirte, the AP said, following attacks on government tanks,
artillery and soldiers that enabled the rebels to continue their
westward advance and enter Brega and Ras Lanuf.  “Transition from coalition to NATO forces has been and
will be a seamless handover, with no gap in the effort to do
what it takes to protect the people of Libya,” Canadian Air
Force General Charles Bouchard, in command of the allied effort,
told reporters at NATO headquarters in Brussels today via a
video link from his command center in Naples,  Italy .  No-Fly Zone  In  Washington  yesterday, U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  told ABC’s “This Week” that implementation of the no-fly
zone over Libya was complete and had “eliminated” Qaddafi’s
ability to strike back at rebel-held cities. Now the no-fly zone
can be “sustained with a lot less effort,” Gates said.  Libyan state-run television accused the allied attacks of
causing a “massacre” among civilians in Ajdabiya as their
warplanes sought to provide air cover for the rebels. Gates said
coalition forces have been “extremely careful” and cited U.S.
intelligence reports that Qaddafi was taking the bodies of
people he had killed and putting them at sites attacked by the
alliance forces.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  will give an address late today
about the American and allied military action in Libya.  Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan told the U.K.-
based  Guardian newspaper  that his country is prepared to act as
a mediator to pursue an early cease-fire in Libya, and said
talks are under way with Qaddafi’s government and the
opposition’s Transitional National Council.  Qatari Recognition  Qatar today recognized the council as the legitimate
government of Libya, the official Qatar News Agency reported.
 France  announced similar recognition earlier this month.  Elsewhere in the Middle East, Syrian President Bashar Al- Assad’s government denied reports that its security forces fired
on protesters in Daraa as they demonstrated against emergency
rule, state TV said. Violence erupted around the country after a
clampdown on protesters in the southern city.  In Yemen, President Ali Abdullah Saleh said no compromise
had been reached on his future in talks with Foreign Minister
Abu Bakr al-Qirbi, Al Arabiya reported. Al-Qirbi said earlier
that he had hoped to reach an agreement on Saleh’s departure
following months of anti-government demonstrations and the
defection of ministers, generals and diplomats from his regime.  ‘Time Bomb’  In an interview with Al Arabiya television, Saleh described
Yemen as a “time bomb” that could disintegrate into civil war,
and in a speech to officials from his party yesterday the
president said he will make “no more concessions.”  Saleh, a U.S. ally against al-Qaeda militants based in his
country, dismissed Mohammed Ali Mohsen, a military commander for
the country’s eastern region who defected to join the protesters
a week ago, the  Defense Ministry  said on its website today. Al-
Qaeda was blamed by the Yemeni government for an explosion that
killed dozens of people today at an ammunition factory, the
official Saba news agency said, citing an unidentified official.  In Egypt, the army council that has been in charge of the
country since the fall of  Hosni Mubarak  last month announced
today that parliamentary elections will be held in September.
The council will remain in power until a presidential election,
which hasn’t yet been scheduled.  Saudi Arabia , where activists have campaigned online for
more democracy and civil rights without taking to the streets in
mass protests, said today that it will hold municipal elections
on Sept. 22, the first nationwide voting in the kingdom since
2005.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 