-- 
JFK Bomb Plot Trial May Begin Even If Defendant Is Too Weak, Judge Says

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-03-25T21:59:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/jfk-bomb-plot-trial-may-begin-even-if-defendant-is-too-weak-judge-says.html
A trial for the fourth defendant
involved in a foiled plot to blow up New York’s John F. Kennedy
International Airport will start May 2, even if the defendant,
 Kareem Ibrahim , is too weak to participate, a judge said.  U.S. District Judge Dora Irizarry in Brooklyn, New York,
said today that Ibrahim, 65, a citizen of Trinidad, persists in
not eating or drinking as the trial date approaches. Ibrahim,
rolled into court in a wheelchair today, weighs 114 pounds and
has been refusing water, insulin injections for diabetes, and
his Ensure nutrition shakes, doctors told the judge by phone
today.  “I see cyclical patterns here. When we get closest to
trial is when he most persists with not eating. At some point,
it’s malingering,” Irizarry said, after questioning Ibrahim’s
lawyers, doctors and an emergency medical technician about how
best to take care of him during a trial.  Three defendants have already been sentenced for their
roles in a 2006 plot to blow up  New York ’s biggest airport.
Ibrahim was slated to be tried in April after being granted a
separate trial due to a medical condition. Michael Hueston, a
lawyer for Ibrahim said the trial date is now set for May 2.  The attacks, hatched by  Russell Defreitas , were designed
to blow up fuel lines and tanks and, ultimately, “the whole of
Kennedy,” Defreitas said in a taped conversation. The plotters
circulated the plan to an international network of Muslim
extremists, according to the government.  Foiled  Defreitas, 67, a former cargo worker at the airport;  Abdul Kadir , 59, a former member of Guyana’s parliament, were
sentenced to life in prison. Abdel Nur, 60, a Guyanese citizen,
was sentenced to 15 years.  The plot surrounding the Queens, New York, airport was
foiled in its planning stages with the aid of informant Steven
Francis, who infiltrated the group and testified at the trial.
Mildred Whalen, a lawyer for Defreitas, said the group was
aspirational rather than operational.  The case is U.S. v. Defreitas, 07-cr-00543, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 