-- 
JPMorgan Chase Adds a Global Currency Option Volatility Index to Offerings

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-03-25T14:57:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/jpmorgan-chase-adds-a-global-currency-option-volatility-index-to-offerings.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. has added an
index of global foreign-exchange volatility that tracks options
on currencies of major and developing nations.  The global index is designed to complement two JPMorgan
indexes that follow implied volatility on major currencies and
emerging-market currencies, which the bank began in 2006.
Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to set option
prices, signals the expected pace of swings in the underlying
currency.  “Despite much faster growth in the emerging market options
market turnover over the past decade, Group of 10 currencies
still constitute almost 85 percent of foreign exchange options
turnover globally,” JPMorgan currency strategists John Normand
in  London  and Arindam Sandilya in  New York  wrote in a report to
clients today.  JPMorgan is the world’s sixth biggest currency trader,
according to Euromoney Institutional Investor Plc.  Deutsche
Bank AG is the largest.  The bank rebalanced the weighting of options on individual
currency pairs in its two original indexes based on average
daily turnover figures reported in the latest Bank for
International Settlements’ triennial survey released in August.  Implied Volatility  JPMorgan’s indexes are formulated from implied volatility
on three-month options, with individual weightings based on BIS
daily turnover percentages. JPMorgan averaged the prior two BIS
triennial surveys, using those from 2010 and 2007. Previously,
the weightings used the 2004 and 2001 survey data. All
currencies are versus the  U.S. dollar .  The implied volatility on the global index is 10.42 percent
today, down from a peak during the past 12 months of 16.8
percent touched in May. The major nations’ index was at 10.69
percent and that tracking emerging currencies was at 8.93
percent.  The bank’s index tracking major exchange rates was expanded
to include nine currencies versus the dollar, up from six.
Movements in  New Zealand dollar , Norwegian krone and Swedish
krona options have been added to those for the currencies of
 Japan , the euro zone, the U.K.,  France ,  Italy  and  Canada .  Options on the euro against the dollar account for the
largest weighting in the major index at 36.3 percent, while the
dollar against the yen accounts for the second-largest at 31.8
percent. These were the top two weighted pairs in the original
index as well.  Foreign-exchange trading rose 20 percent to $4 trillion a
day on average in the three years to 2007, according to details
from the 2010 BIS triennial survey reported in August. Some 85
percent of currency trades in the three-year period involved the
dollar while  Europe ’s single currency portion was 39 percent,
the BIS report showed.  JPMorgan’s emerging-market implied volatility index was
expanded to track three-month options on 13 currencies against
the U.S. dollar, up from 7. Among the additions, were the
currencies of Turkey, India and Hungary.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  