-- 
BNP, Deutsche Bank Suits Against Bank of America Narrowed

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-26T00:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/judge-narrows-bnp-deutsche-bank-suits-against-bank-of-america.html
A federal judge narrowed suits
filed against  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  by  BNP Paribas Mortgage
Corp.  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  over hundreds of millions of dollars
in losses on asset-backed commercial paper, dismissing some of
the claims while allowing the cases to go forward.  U.S. District Judge Robert Sweet on March 23 dismissed
several claims against Bank of America and ruled that  BNP
Paribas (BNP) , the parent of BNP Paribas Mortgage, is an improper
plaintiff in the suit.  Deutsche Bank and BNP Paribas Mortgage sued separately in
2009, claiming they lost $1.6 billion in asset-backed notes. The
notes were issued by a special-purpose entity known as Ocala
Funding LLC, which provided funding for mortgage loans
originated by Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp.  The BNP Paribas unit and Deutsche Bank claim their
agreements required that Ocala hold $1.6 billion in cash or
 mortgage loans  as collateral to be deposited with Bank of
America, the deal’s trustee.  “BNP Paribas is pleased with the judge’s decision and we
look forward to continuing to pursue our remedies in court,”
bank spokeswoman Megan Stinson said in an e-mailed statement.  “The judge significantly limited the plaintiffs’ case,
dismissing 14 of their 20 claims, and held that the remaining
claims must be decided on the facts,” Bank of America spokesman
 Bill Halldin  said in an e-mailed statement. “We look forward to
presenting those facts to the court.‬‪"  Taylor Bean   Deutsche Bank spokeswoman Amanda Williams didn’t
immediately return a voice mail message seeking comment on the
ruling.  Taylor Bean, the 12th-biggest U.S. home lender before
filing for bankruptcy in 2009, established Ocala in 2005 a
financing vehicle for mortgage loans.  In their complaints, BNP Paribas Mortgage and Deutsche Bank
claim that Bank of America improperly transferred billions of
dollars out of Ocala accounts; didn’t track mortgages it was
holding as security, as it promised to do; issued false
statements about the amount of collateral it held; and took
other steps that misled the two banks.  Bank of America said under the deal’s terms it wasn’t
required to monitor Ocala’s use of the funds or to evaluate the
entity’s assets and liabilities before complying with withdrawal
requests.  The cases are Deutsche Bank v. Bank of America, 09-cv-9784,
and BNP Paribas v. Bank of America, 09-cv-9783, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  