-- 
Kan Says Nation Can’t Let Down Guard as Workers Try to Stabilize Reactor

-- B y   G o   O n o m i t s u   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-03-25T15:24:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/kan-says-nation-can-t-let-down-guard-as-workers-try-to-stabilize-reactor.html
Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
said efforts to bring the damaged Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
power plant under control haven’t yet reached the stage where
the government can let down its guard.  “We’re trying to prevent a deterioration of the
situation,” Kan said in a public address in  Tokyo  yesterday.
“We must continue to work with a high sense of alertness on
each development.”  Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency said yesterday
it doesn’t think there is a physical crack in the pressure
vessel or containment vessel at the No. 3 reactor. There may be
some kind of leak from the reactor causing high levels of
radiation found in water in the basement of the reactor’s
turbine building, Hidehiko Nishiyama, a spokesman for the
agency, told reporters.  Repair work at the site of the worst nuclear disaster since
Chernobyl has been plagued by explosions, fires and leaks of
toxic material. Workers using fire engines have streamed 4,000
tons of water on the No. 3 reactor, five times more than any of
the other five units,  according to the government .  “Even if there has been encouraging news such as getting
some power back to the site, the installation remains in an
extremely precarious and very serious situation that has not yet
been stabilized,” Thomas Houdre, head of reactors at  France ’s
nuclear safety agency, told reporters in Paris.  Radiation Levels  Tokyo Electric Power Co., the plant operator, found water
at No. 1 reactor with radiation levels 10,000 times higher than
normal cooling water, company officials said at a press
conference shown on a webcast.  A similar finding at the No.3 reactor delayed attempts to
restore power to control and cooling systems. Three workers were
hospitalized after stepping into water at the turbine building
of the No. 3 reactor.  Tokyo Electric plans to drain radioactive water from the
turbine building of the No. 3 unit where the accident occurred,
spokesman Osamu Yokokura said. It has yet to determine how and
when to do this, he said.  “The water that is coming out of that area is much higher
in terms of radiation and this is obviously complicating the
clean up,” said Tony Roulstone, an atomic engineer who directs
the University of Cambridge’s master’s program in nuclear
energy. “If it’s leaking out then they have to figure out some
way to contain this water.”  Without Power  The March 11 quake,  Japan ’s biggest ever, left the plant
without power needed to cool nuclear fuel rods. Japan yesterday
advised more people living close to the nuclear plant to
evacuate because basic goods are in short supply, while assuring
them that radiation levels haven’t risen.  Radiation readings around residents living between 20
kilometers (12 miles) and 30 kilometers from the plant are
falling, according to the Nuclear Safety Commission of Japan.  An order for the residents to remain inside their homes
does not have to be amended right now, commission member Seiji
Shiroya said yesterday.  Should the reading for radioactive substances start to
increase, the commission will advise the government to change
the order for evacuation, he told a press conference in Tokyo.  Death Toll  The death toll from the quake and tsunami climbed to 10,102
as of 9 p.m. local time yesterday, with 17,053 people missing,
according to the  National Police Agency  in Tokyo.  The spread of radiation to food and water supplies prompted
bulk-buying of bottled drinks even as the government said the
health threat remained minimal.  Changing weather systems were due to drive radiation from
the Fukushima plant over the Pacific Ocean yesterday, Austria’s
Meteorological and Geophysics Center reported, citing data from
the United Nations nuclear-test ban treaty organization.  Wind will carry the radionuclides for a “short while”
inland, the center said on its website. Reactors at Fukushima
may have released as much as 20 percent of the radioactive
iodine and up to 60 percent of the radioactive cesium that
resulted from the Chernobyl meltdown in 1986, according to the
report.  The maximum radiation reading reported so far at the
nuclear plant is 500 millisieverts per hour, meaning a worker in
the vicinity would receive the maximum-allowed dose in 30
minutes.  Tokyo Electric  said 17 workers had received more than
100 millisieverts of radiation since the crisis started.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Go Onomitsu in Tokyo at 
 gonomitsu@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  