-- 
Kansas City Fed Starts Search for Successor to Hoenig

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-03-25T17:32:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/kansas-city-fed-begins-search-for-successor-to-retiring-hoenig.html
The  Federal Reserve  Bank of Kansas
City said it has begun a search to replace bank president  Thomas Hoenig , the U.S. central bank’s longest-serving policy maker,
who is retiring Oct. 1.  The search committee will be led by Terry Moore, the
president of the Omaha Federation of Labor and a member of the
regional bank’s board of directors, according to a statement on
the bank’s website.  During his 20-year career as leader of the Kansas City Fed,
Hoenig has repeatedly urged the central bank to tighten monetary
policy to prevent inflation from accelerating and asset price
bubbles from developing. He voted eight straight times last year
against record monetary stimulus led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , tying former Governor Henry Wallich’s record in 1980
for most dissents in a single year.  “His legacy is highlighting the concerns about serious Fed
policy mistakes and the quantitative easing policy,” said
William Ford, a former president of the Atlanta Fed who teaches
at Middle Tennessee State University. “It took a lot of courage
to be the lone dissenter.”  “Bernanke is a bit out on a limb with quantitative easing,
and Hoenig is one of the folks shaking the tree,” Ford said,
referring to the Fed’s plans to buy $600 billion in  Treasury
securities  through June.  Hoenig will retire exactly two decades after beginning his
tenure in 1991. He is required under internal Fed rules to
retire at age 65, an age he will reach in September.  Identify Successor  “As directors, our challenge is to identify a successor
who will continue the high standards of performance that Tom has
established for the Tenth District,” Moore said in a statement.  Hoenig voted in November against the Fed’s decision to buy
bonds to stimulate growth and reduce unemployment. The so-called
quantitative easing following a $1.7 trillion asset program that
ended in March 2010.  While not dissenting as voters on policy this year,
Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser  Dallas  and Fed
President  Richard Fisher  have joined Hoenig in criticizing the
bond purchases. Fisher said this month he may vote to curtail
the program if he deems it to be “counterproductive.”  In a speech March 2 in New York, Hoenig described the
purchases as “monetizing debt,” which he said will generate
inflation in a few years. While he would avoid “shock therapy”
of selling assets all at once, Hoenig said the Fed needs to
explain how it will unwind its balance sheet.  Target Rate  Hoenig also told the  Council on Foreign Relations  the
central bank should raise its target federal funds rate to 1
percent from near zero, then pause to assess the economy before
raising the rate again to a higher rate, perhaps 2 percent.  “Tom Hoenig is a leader in every sense of the word,” Paul
DeBruce, the chairman of the  Kansas City  Fed’s board of
directors, said in a statement.  “The recent financial crisis and its aftermath provided
those outside the Federal Reserve with an appreciation for the
vision, expertise and thoughtful analysis that has made Tom one
of the most valued participants in central banking around the
world,” said DeBruce, who is the chief executive of DeBruce
Grain, Inc. in Kansas City,  Missouri .  Hoenig’s views have been praised by Republican critics of
Bernanke in Congress, including former U.S. Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas, who last year suggested he would be a
better chairman than Bernanke.  ‘Steady Performer’  While “Tom has been a steady performer” in his career,
“this past year is probably the one that he has made his
greatest contribution by way of his dissents,” said former
Atlanta Fed research director Robert Eisenbeis, chief monetary
economist at Cumberland Advisors Inc. in Sarasota,  Florida .  Hoenig lost his vote on monetary policy this year as part
of an annual rotation among 11 of the 12 leaders of the regional
Fed banks. The heads of the Chicago, Philadelphia, Minneapolis
and Dallas banks vote this year. The head of the  New York  Fed
has a permanent vote.  The last opening among Fed bank presidents was filled by
John C. Williams, former research director of San Francisco Fed,
who was promoted on March 1 to be that bank’s president.  Hoenig, who joined the bank in 1973 as an economist and
worked in supervising banks much of his career, also has warned
that Congress has failed to solve the problem of large bank
bailouts.  In February, he called for breaking up big banks into
smaller institutions to end an implied government safety net for
the largest banks. He also has urged that banks be required to
have more capital as a cushion against losses.  The  Kansas  City Fed is one of the 12 regional banks, formed
in 1913, which aid in supervising commercial banks and
processing checks as well as reporting on regional business
conditions. The Kansas City district represents  Colorado ,
Kansas,  Nebraska ,  Oklahoma ,  Wyoming , northern  New Mexico  and the
western third of Missouri.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  