-- 
KenolKobil Targets African Expansion Amid Kenyan `Government Interference'

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-03-25T14:53:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/kenolkobil-targets-african-expansion-amid-kenyan-government-interference-.html
KenolKobil Ltd., a Kenyan fuel
retailer that operates in nine African nations, said it plans to
make acquisitions in four more countries as part of a strategy
to expand outside its home market.  KenolKobil, based in Nairobi, is targeting the Democratic
Republic of Congo,  Namibia , Djibouti and Malawi, Patrick Kondo,
head of mergers and acquisitions at the company, told reporters
at a briefing today.  “Some of them are at an advanced stage, some of them are in
the early stages,” he said.  KenolKobil, which has a 25 percent share of the Kenyan oil
market, is expanding abroad amid what it calls “government
interference” in the domestic oil industry. It has operations in
Kenya,  Uganda ,  Tanzania ,  Rwanda , Burundi, Zambia,  Ethiopia ,
 Mozambique  and Zimbabwe.  The state-owned Kenya Pipeline Co. was ordered by the
country’s  High Court  in February to pay KenolKobil 5.2 billion
shillings ($61.7 million) without interest for contravening a
transportation and storage agreement.  In October, KenolKobil said it settled a four-year dispute
on pending claims against  Kenya  Petroleum Refineries Ltd., in
which the government holds a 50 percent stake, over processing
fees. KPRL said it was owed 600 million shillings by KenolKobil,
which in turn said it was owed 5.3 billion shillings as a result
of losses incurred after KPRL withheld refined oil and prevented
two ships from delivering crude ordered by KenolKobil.  ‘Reasonable Return’  Markets outside Kenya are “where we believe we can get a
reasonable return on our investment without interference,”
Managing Director Jacob Segman told reporters today. “Over time,
Kenya is losing its net contribution to the bottom line.” He
declined to say what proportion of the company’s current profit
is generated outside Kenya.  Last year, KenolKobil announced plans to expand in  Zimbabwe 
and Mozambique. The company has since acquired a 21,000 cubic-
meter (741,608 cubic-feet) storage depot at the Mozambican port
of Beira, and a liaison office in Harare, the Zimbabwe capital,
Kondo said. Initial operations in the two countries will involve
importing fuel in bulk and selling it to fuel-marketing
companies, he said.  Kenya’s biggest fuel retailer by market value, KenolKobil
last month acquired a fuel depot, a dry-goods warehouse and an
office complex from Societe d’Importation et de
Commercialisation de Petroliers in Burundi. In January, it
bought the assets of Phoenix Uganda Petroleum Ltd., consisting
of a fuel terminal, an office block and three gas stations.  In the 12 months through December, non-fuel products
contributed 10 percent to KenolKobil’s net income. The company
plans to grow that contribution to 25 percent over the next six
to 10 years, Segman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 