-- 
Kentucky Wins NCAA Basketball Title in Recruitment Spending

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-03-25T04:35:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/kentucky-wins-ncaa-basketball-championship-in-spending-to-recruit-players.html
The  University of Kentucky , which
is four wins away from an eighth college basketball
championship, spent more on recruiting last year than any public
university in the six biggest conferences in college sports.  Kentucky  spent $434,095 in fiscal 2010. The University of
Kansas was second with $419,228; and  Florida  third with
$326,306, according to expense reports from 53 schools obtained
through open-records requests. Private schools such as  Duke
University  aren’t required to divulge the information.  Kentucky starts three freshman who score 60 percent of the
team’s points. Last year, the Wildcats lost four first-year
players to the National Basketball Association draft after being
eliminated in the regional finals of the  National Collegiate
Athletic Association  tournament.  “Kentucky basketball is one of the most important things
in our state and we are going to direct resources to ensure that
it stays that way,” Kentucky Athletic Director Mitch Barnhart
said in a telephone interview.  The Kentucky basketball program’s spending comes as the
state government is struggling to find a way to cover a $165
million shortfall for Medicaid, a federal-state program that
provides health care to the needy. The basketball program
doesn’t have a deficit: It had an operating profit of $5.2
million in fiscal 2010 on $16.8 million in revenue.  The only other team to make the final 16 of the tournament
with three freshmen starters is  Connecticut , which defeated San
Diego State 74-67 last night to advance to the West regional
final against fifth-ranked  Arizona , a 93-77 winner over
defending champion and No. 1 seed Duke. UConn’s freshmen
combined to score 25 percent of the team’s points this season.  Biggest Winner  Kentucky’s starting freshman -- Brandon Knight, Terrence
Jones and Doron Lamb -- are playing for a program that has won
more games, 2,050, than any other Division I basketball program
and has appeared in a record 51 NCAA tournaments. Barnhart said
the team’s success compels the athletic department to dedicate
resources to recruiting.  “There is an expectation that we continue to be in that
group of schools that talks about championship performance,”
said Barnhart, 51. “We’ve got to match resources to
expectations.”  On the other hand,  Wisconsin  spent the least ($57,397) on
recruiting of public universities in the six biggest
conferences: the Big Ten, Big 12, Big East, Southeastern,
Atlantic Coast and Pac-10.  Local Search  Wisconsin, a Big Ten school, spent the money on a
recruiting effort that stayed local. Of the team’s 17 players,
15 come from Wisconsin or a neighboring state, including all
four freshmen. The Badgers made it to the round of 16 in the
NCAA tournament and lost to Butler University, a private school
from Indianapolis, last night. Butler will face Florida in the
Southeast regional final tomorrow after its 61-54 win.  Wisconsin associate head coach Greg Gard, who coordinates
recruiting, said the Badgers are undaunted by big spenders such
as Kentucky and  Kansas . He said they recruit players from their
region and develop them over a four-year college career.  “Most kids want to play where their family and friends can
see them,” Gard, 40, said in a telephone interview. “So we
recruit in our own backyard and have found a lot of great
players who, with a little support, can turn into terrific
players.”  Unlike Kentucky, which recruits players who are good enough
to jump to the NBA in a year, many of Wisconsin’s recruits don’t
develop until later. Gard said that gives the added benefit of
keeping the team together.  Recruiting Budget  Kentucky’s recruiting budget includes accommodations for
official visits, scouting, communications and traveling
expenses, Barnhart said. There is no major airport in Lexington,
Kentucky, and the team’s coaches traveled to  Oregon , Florida,
New York and  Europe  to recruit this year’s freshman class.  The Wildcats successfully recruited Turkish forward Enes
Kanter, then the NCAA ruled him permanently ineligible to play
because he was paid by a professional basketball club in his
native country.  Knight, 19, of  Fort Lauderdale , Florida; Jones, 20, of
 Portland , Oregon; and Lamb, 19, of New York, all top-rated
players by recruiting site  Rivals.com , are Kentucky’s three
leading scorers this season. Knight was twice named the Gatorade
High School Boys Basketball Player of the Year, joining  LeBron James  and Greg Oden as the only players to win the award
multiple times.  NBA Draft First Pick  Last year, the Wildcats’ freshman point guard,  John Wall ,
was chosen with the first pick of the NBA draft. He’s averaging
16.1 points a game for the  Washington Wizards .  The professional success of last year’s freshman class
helps Kentucky’s recruiting efforts, said Len Elmore, who played
10 years in the NBA and is the University of  Maryland ’s all-time
leading rebounder.  “You have to have a marketing pitch,” said Elmore, 58,
who is a basketball analyst for CBS. “John Calipari’s staff can
say, ‘If you come with us, we will develop you into NBA
material,’ and back it up with empirical evidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 