-- 
Kissel Convicted of Murdering Her Merrill Lynch Banker Husband in Retrial

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-03-25T16:03:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/kissel-convicted-of-murdering-her-merrill-lynch-banker-husband-in-retrial.html
Nancy Kissel, the Merrill Lynch &
Co. banker’s wife who won a retrial for his murder in  Hong Kong ,
was convicted again unanimously and sentenced to life in prison
yesterday, more than seven years after the crime.  A jury of seven women and two men rejected her defense that
she was provoked or impaired by mental illness, instead
accepting the prosecution case that the 46-year-old had planned
the Nov. 2, 2003 drugging and killing of Robert Kissel, who
headed Asian distressed assets divisions first at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and then at Merrill in the early 2000s.  The Michigan-born mother of three nodded to High Court
Judge Andrew Macrae and sat silently in the dock when he
delivered the mandatory sentence. Her lawyer asked Macrae to
write to Hong Kong’s long-term review board and ask them to
consider the emotional disturbance and psychological distress
she has suffered in a case that attracted worldwide attention.  “She has been punished severely already by the loss of her
husband, her children, her life,”  Edward Fitzgerald  told the
judge. Kissel may seek to serve out her term in the U.S. under a
treaty agreement between the two governments.  The U.S. expatriate’s journey from a $20,000-a-month
apartment with a view of the  South China Sea  to a cell in a
 prison  on the Chinese border spawned at least two books, U.S.
network news specials and a Lifetime Television movie. Media
coverage intensified after Robert’s millionaire real estate
developer brother Andrew Kissel was stabbed to death in 2006.  Previous Conviction  Her 2005 murder conviction was quashed by Hong Kong’s top
court last year when it ruled improper questioning and hearsay
evidence had tainted the original proceedings. The retrial began
on Jan. 11 after Kissel unsuccessfully argued she should be
released because excessive media coverage made it impossible to
conduct a fair retrial.  “The past few years have been a painful process of
recovery, especially for the children,”  Robert Kissel ’s family
said in a statement released after the verdict.  “Now that the trial is concluded we shall continue to help
rebuild their lives.” The three Kissel children are now aged
17, 14, and 11 years, and live with Robert Kissel’s sister, Jane Clayton, in  Seattle .  Clayton is pursuing civil claims in Hong Kong on behalf of
the three children, according to lawyer Andrew Powner, in order
to prevent Nancy Kissel from benefiting from the dead banker’s
insurance policies which total $6.75 million according to
prosecution evidence.  Wrapped in a Carpet  Police discovered Robert Kissel’s body four days after his
death, wrapped in a sleeping bag and rolled up in a carpet
inside a family storeroom after his Merrill colleague David Noh
made a missing person’s report.  Prosecution lawyer  David Perry  argued the late investment
banker was a victim of a “highly organized” wife who fell out
of love with him and was having an affair with an electrical
technician in  Vermont . She obtained four prescription sedatives
and blended them into a milkshake for her husband, Perry said.  Later that evening, while Robert Kissel lay incapacitated
in their bedroom, she dealt five fatal blows to the right side
of his head with an eight-pound lead ornament. An autopsy of the
body showed no defensive wounds, and Perry called the
defendant’s account of a struggle in their bedroom just before
the killing, an attempt to “get away with murder.”  At 38 kilograms (84 pounds),  Nancy Kissel  required the
assistance of two corrections officers to walk. She testified to
physical and sexual abuse from her husband, describing being
slammed against a glass panel and being forced into anal sex by
a career-obsessed husband.  Memory Loss  On the fourth day of her testimony, the judge took an early
recess after the defendant screamed and wailed under cross
examination, and said she could “see” her husband lying on the
floor.  Kissel said on the stand she had no memory of events in the
days following her husband’s death, during which she hid the
body inside a carpet, ordered boxes from a moving company to
pack up evidence, and instructed a domestic helper to buy
peppermint oil to conceal the smell of decomposition. A
psychiatrist attributed her memory loss to dissociative amnesia.  A defense lawyer, Colin Cohen, said her counsel would be
reviewing all matters in relation to a possible appeal before
giving their advice.  “Regardless of the huge disappointment in the verdict,
there is relief for her that this intense pressure and having to
constantly relive the event through the trial and testimony,”
is behind her for the time being, said Nancy Kissel’s mother,
Jean McGlothlin.  “She can get some rest for a while,” said McGlothlin, who
said she was stunned by the jury’s decision.  Robert Kissel was a loving father who dearly loved his
children and did his very best to provide for them and his wife,
his family said in their statement.  “We all miss him so much.”  The case is HKSAR v. Nancy Ann Kissel, HCCC55/2010 in the
Hong Kong Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  