-- 
Kocherlakota Would Need ‘Materially’ Worse Data to Extend Fed's QE Program

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-03-25T14:15:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/kocherlakota-would-need-materially-worse-data-to-extend-fed-asset-buying.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said the  U.S. economy  would have
to “worsen materially” for the central bank to consider
extending its second round of bond purchases past June.  “I am not one who would say that I would remove all
possibility of further easing, but that would require conditions
to worsen materially from what I forecast,” Kocherlakota told
reporters today at an event in Marseille,  France . “If the
economy evolves the way I forecast, I would not foresee us doing
further accommodation.”  The regional bank chief, who holds a vote on monetary
policy this year for the first time, voted with the rest of the
 Federal Open Market Committee  last week to keep in place the
current round of Treasury purchases to stimulate growth and
reduce unemployment. He said today that he would look at  core
inflation  to guide his assessment whether the Fed should extend
the $600 billion program or begin tightening policy.  The Commerce Department in  Washington  said today the U.S.
economy grew at a 3.1 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter,
faster than the 2.8 percent estimate issued last month.  Consumer
spending  rose 4 percent, a pace that may not be matched in the
current quarter after  oil prices  soared.  Inflation Impact  Kocherlakota said energy prices “in particular are
extremely volatile” and the impact of the current surge on
inflation is “transitory.” Crude oil has risen about 38
percent in the last six months and was trading above $105 a
barrel today, close to the highest since September 2008.  “Core inflation is going to be a better guide to what’s
going to be happening to inflation over the next three or four
years,” Kocherlakota said. It is “telling me that our position
is appropriately accommodative.”  The U.S. consumer-price index rose 0.5 percent in February
from the previous month, the most since June 2009, according to
data published March 17. The core gauge, which excludes volatile
food and fuel costs, increased 0.2 percent.  “We’ve made a commitment to have a certain stock of
purchases to be completed by June. I view the bar for not
completing those purchases as being extremely high,”
Kocherlakota said at the event, hosted by the Institut
D’Economie Publique. “After that, as data and information flow
in, we should be considering what to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in Marseille at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  