-- 
Kodak CEO Perez Says $1 Billion at Stake in Apple, RIM Patent Dispute

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-03-25T20:15:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/kodak-says-1-billion-at-stake-in-apple-rim-patent-dispute.html
A victory for  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  in
its patent fight with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Research in Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  may
add more than $1 billion in revenue from royalty payments,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez said.  Kodak “deserves to win,” Perez, 65, said in an interview
in New York yesterday.  A decision is scheduled for about 5 p.m. Washington time
today on whether the U.S. International Trade Commission will
review a judge’s findings from January that Apple’s iPhone and
RIM’s BlackBerry don’t violate Kodak’s patent on an image-
preview feature in camera phones. Opening a review would revive
Kodak’s effort to extract compensation from Apple and RIM.  Kodak, which had lost almost half its market value in the
past year, rose 27 cents, or 8.6 percent, to $3.40 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  “This is a lot of money, big money,” said Perez, who
estimates the royalties may be similar to payments the company
received from Samsung Electronics Co. and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)   Kodak used the ITC to gain $550 million from Samsung and
$414 million from LG for allegedly infringing the same patent as
in the Apple and RIM cases. The ITC is a quasi-judicial arbiter
of trade disputes that can block imports of products found to
infringe U.S. patents. While the agency can’t order monetary
damages, the threat of being shut out of the U.S. market often
provides the incentive for settlements.  “It would be important for Kodak to get a favorable ruling
on this matter because most of its operating businesses lose
money whereas intellectual property royalties go directly to the
bottom line,” Jim Kelleher, an analyst at Argus Research in  New
York , said yesterday in an e-mail. He rates the shares “hold.”  ITC Review  In the Samsung and LG cases, a different ITC judge sided
with Rochester, New York-based Kodak, and the phonemakers
settled before the full six-member commission ruled on the case.
Should the agency decide to review the findings from January by
Judge Paul Luckern in the Apple and RIM case, a final decision
would be made by May 23, according to the ITC’s calendar.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, said the company doesn’t comment on pending
litigation. Officials with Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM didn’t
respond to an e-mailed query about the case.  Kodak, a 131-year-old company that popularized photography
with the Brownie and Instamatic cameras, generated $838 million
from patents last year. The company has told investors it
expects to average $250 million to $350 million in annual
revenue from intellectual property licensing through 2013. That
figure doesn’t include potential Apple and RIM royalties.  Patent Royalties  The company in January reported 2010 revenue of $7.2
billion, about half the total from 2005, and said two of its
three main businesses had losses from continuing operations
before interest expense, taxes and other charges.  Perez, CEO since 2005, has said he is using proceeds from
intellectual property licensing to invest in the company’s
inkjet printing, packaging and software units to blunt falling
revenue from camera film.  RIM declined $7.20, or 11 percent, to $56.89 on the Nasdaq
Stock Market. Apple jumped $6.57 to $351.54.  A related civil lawsuit is pending against Apple in a
federal court in New York. Both Apple and RIM have filed
lawsuits against Kodak. The ITC typically finishes its cases
more quickly than district courts.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Mobile Telephones and
Wireless Communication Devices Featuring Digital Cameras, and
Components Thereof, 337-703, U.S. International Trade Commission
( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Burritt  in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at   aholmes25@bloomberg.net . 