-- 
Kodak Wins a Round in $1 Billion Apple, RIM Patent Dispute

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-03-25T22:24:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/kodak-wins-round-in-1-billion-patent-case-against-apple-rim.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  won the latest
round in its patent dispute with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Research In
Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , a victory with the potential to generate more than
$1 billion in new licensing revenue for the camera company.  Kodak rose as much as 25 percent in late trading after the
U.S. International Trade Commission said it will review a
judge’s findings from January that Apple’s iPhone and RIM’s
BlackBerry don’t violate Kodak’s patent on a way to preview
digital images using less processing power and storage space.
The ITC, which can block imports of products that violate U.S.
patents, plans to make a final determination by May 23.  Kodak, the 131-year-old company that popularized
photography with the Brownie and Instamatic cameras, may be able
to extract $1 billion from Apple and RIM should it win the case,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez said in an
interview yesterday. His figure was based on the combined $964
million received from settlements reached with Samsung
Electronics Co. and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  over the same patent.  The patent covers a feature that previews low-resolution
versions of a moving image while recording still images at a
high resolution. Higher resolution requires more processing
power and storage space. Kodak, which generated $838 million
from patents last year, contends the image-preview feature is
used in every digital camera and phone with a camera.  Apple and RIM denied infringing the patent and argued it
was invalid. ITC Judge Paul Luckern on Jan. 24 agreed with the
companies on both issues. Kodak, based in Rochester, New York,
challenged that finding.  Samsung, LG  The six-member commission in Washington told the companies
today to present arguments on five issues, including whether
Luckern should have considered a judge’s interpretation of the
patent in the Samsung and LG case, and the result of a review by
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office upholding the patent.  Gerard Meuchner, a spokesman for Kodak, said the company
was pleased with the decision “and we look forward to the next
step in the process.”  Kodak, which had lost almost half its market value in the
past year, rose to $4.06 at 5:58 p.m.  New York  time and reached
$4.24 after closing at $3.40 in regular New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, said the company doesn’t comment on pending
litigation. Officials with Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM couldn’t
be reached to comment.  The ITC is a quasi-judicial arbiter of trade disputes.
While the agency can’t order monetary damages, the threat of
being shut out of the U.S. market often provides the incentive
for settlements.  Licensing Revenue  Kodak used the ITC to gain $550 million from Samsung and
$414 million from LG. In that case, a different ITC judge sided
with Kodak, and the phonemakers settled before the full six-
member commission ruled on the case.  Kodak has told investors it expects to average $250 million
to $350 million in annual revenue from intellectual property
licensing through 2013. That figure doesn’t include potential
Apple and RIM royalties.  The company in January reported 2010 revenue of $7.2
billion, about half the total from 2005, and said two of its
three main businesses had losses from continuing operations
before interest expense, taxes and other charges.  Perez, CEO since 2005, has said he is using proceeds from
intellectual property licensing to invest in the company’s
inkjet printing, packaging and software units to blunt falling
revenue from camera film.  A related civil lawsuit is pending against Apple in a
federal court in New York. Both Apple and RIM have filed
lawsuits against Kodak.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Mobile Telephones and
Wireless Communication Devices Featuring Digital Cameras, and
Components Thereof, 337-703, U.S. International Trade Commission
( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  