-- 
NATO to Run Libya No-Fly Zone As U.S.-Led Force Hits Troops

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-25T08:14:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/nato-to-take-command-of-no-fly-zone-as-u-s-led-force-hits-qaddafi-troops.html
NATO agreed to take command of the
 Libya  no-fly zone without assuming responsibility for air
strikes against Libyan military targets that sparked discord
within the 28-nation alliance.  The agreement among members of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization means the U.S. will likely stay in charge of the
attacks on Muammar Qaddafi’s ground forces, which continued
overnight. Explosions were heard in the capital, Tripoli, before
daybreak today, apparently from air strikes, the  Associated
Press  said.  The anti-Qaddafi coalition flew 130 sorties in a 24-hour
period, of which 49 were sent to hit ground targets, and
launched 14 Tomahawk cruise missiles against Libyan air-defense
and missile sites, Vice Admiral Bill Gortney of the U.S. Joint
Chiefs of Staffs said yesterday. Qatar is sending planes to help
enforce the no-fly zone, which will make it the first Arab
participant, and the  United Arab Emirates  also pledged to join,
reversing an earlier decision.  Air strikes on Libya, entering a seventh day, have already
damaged Qaddafi’s air force and weakened his army. The U.S. and
allies including France and the U.K., acting under a United
Nations remit to protect Libyan civilians, say the strikes are
needed because Qaddafi’s forces continue to attack cities such
as Misrata, Ajdabiya and Zentan.  French officials, who pushed hardest for military action,
predicted a quick end to the conflict. Defense Minister Gerard Longuet said the coalition has intercepted conversations among
Libyan officers indicating that many are ready to abandon the
regime. Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said the “military action
will be counted in days and in weeks, not in months.”  Oil Surge  Oil prices  have jumped about 25 percent since the Libyan
rebellion began last month, heightening concerns about Middle
East crude supplies. The revolt has evolved from the kind
popular uprising seen in Egypt and  Tunisia  into a civil war.  Elsewhere,  Syria  said it may end emergency rule and grant
more freedom for political parties, in response to protests that
reportedly left many dead. In Yemen, the political opposition to
President Ali Abdullah Saleh plans a nationwide protest against
the state of emergency ordered by the president after a massacre
of demonstrators last week. In Bahrain, mostly Shiite Muslim
opposition supporters plan a rally to denounce government
violence that has left about 20 of them dead.  Oil pared gains yesterday after rising to a 2 1/2-year high
this week, with crude for May delivery falling 15 cents to
settle at $105.60 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
It was trading at the same level at 7:10 a.m. in  London  today.  Cease-Fire Talks  UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said he expects Libyan
government and opposition representatives to hold cease-fire
talks today under African Union auspices in  Addis Ababa ,
 Ethiopia .  NATO’s role will be limited for now to the no-fly zone,
said Anders Fogh Rasmussen, its secretary general. “We have not
decided yet whether we will take on a broader responsibility,”
Rasmussen said in an interview on CNN.  The alliance will take over command of the no-fly-zone
operations in one or two days, according to a U.S.
administration official authorized to brief reporters on the
condition his name not be used.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , after talks with
foreign ministers from NATO members  Turkey ,  France  and the U.K.,
said that the alliance would further consider plans to assume
command of ground-strike missions. Turkey, a majority-Muslim
nation, and  Germany  have publicly questioned NATO taking on a
combat role in Libya. Germany this week pulled two frigates and
two other ships from NATO operations in the Mediterranean.  Warnings to Fighters  Coalition attacks have eliminated Qaddafi’s air force and
are now concentrated on his army, especially on supply lines and
logistics capabilities, though the task is complicated by the
proximity of the forces to population centers, said Gortney. He
said Qaddafi’s soldiers are being sent communications demanding
they stop attacks.  “Our message is, don’t follow the regime’s orders, don’t
attack the people, just cease fighting, stay in place, abandon
your equipment,” he said in a briefing to reporters at the
Pentagon. “But if you threaten the Libyan people, attack the
Libyan people, we are going to take you under attack.”  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  reaffirmed that there
will be no invasion of Libya by Western countries, though he
said he “can’t exclude” the small-scale use of special forces
on the ground.  The United Arab Emirates said today it will send six F-16
and six Mirage jets to help enforce the zone, reversing an
earlier decision to take part in humanitarian aid missions only,
the state-run WAM news agency said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 