-- 
NCR Pitches Major Retailers to Sell DVDs Through Dispensers

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-03-25T01:21:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/ncr-pitches-major-retailers-to-sell-dvds-through-dispensers-2-.html
NCR Corp. (NCR)  is taking a new tack in
its competition with  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR) ’s Redbox DVD-rental kiosks,
offering vending machines to retailers as a way to sell discs
and free up shelf space in stores.  Stores would buy the machines, put their own name on them
and use them to sell DVDs, video games or music CDs that are now
sold from shelves, said Justin Hotard, general manager of NCR
Entertainment, the unit that includes Blockbuster Express. NCR
would continue to operate its existing DVD rental machines
through its Blockbuster Express brand.  The move gives Duluth, Georgia-based NCR a new way to
expand its DVD-kiosk business, which trails market leader
Redbox. The business model of selling hardware and supporting
software is similar to the way NCR provides automated checkout
systems and ATM machines to stores and banks.  “This is a global opportunity,” said Hotard, who spoke in
an interview and declined to identify companies that have been
approached. “There are other countries where we are seriously
investigating this.”  NCR operates about 8,000 kiosks and plans to expand the
number to 11,000 this year, Chief Financial Officer Bob Fishman
said during a March 9 teleconference. NCR leases the Blockbuster
name from  Blockbuster Inc. (BLOAQ) , the operator of movie-rental stores
that has filed for bankruptcy. Redbox has about 30,000 movie-
rental kiosks.  DVD Sales  NCR has been experimenting with DVD sales from its
Blockbuster-branded kiosks to demonstrate that customers will
buy disks from a vending machine. It offers four titles, Sony
Corp.’s “The Social Network,” “Salt” and “Grown Ups,” and
Lions Gate Entertainment Corp.’s “The Expendables.” DVDs sell
for $12.99 and Blu-ray versions for $16.99, Hotard said.  The company will add DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc.’s “How
to Train Your Dragon” and “Megamind,” spokesman Jeff Dudash
said.  Selling movie dispensers brings the entertainment group in
line with other NCR’s businesses that include the sale of
equipment for financial transactions and self-check-in at
airports, Hotard said. DVD kiosks would eliminate shoplifting
and could be used to sell games, music and some kinds of
electronic equipment, he said.  “Renting movies out of a machine is a great starting
point, but the true value of the technology is enabling the
customer to do all of the things they want to do,” he said.  NCR rose 18 cents to $18.84 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The shares have gained 23 percent this year.
Coinstar, based in Bellevue,  Washington , advanced 91 cents to
$45.29 on the Nasdaq Stock Market and has declined 20 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  