-- 
New Zealand's Bollard Says Quake Reconstruction to Add 2.5% to 2012 Growth

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-03-25T00:59:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/new-zealand-s-quake-rebuilding-may-add-2-5-to-2012-growth.html
New Zealand ’s economy will get a
boost from earthquake reconstruction next year, posing a
challenge to policy makers trying to manage the expansion,
central bank governor Alan Bollard said.  “It’s likely to add something like 2.5 percent extra
impact on growth,” Bollard said in response to questions after
a speech today in Sydney. “That’s pretty major, and we’re going
to have some challenges managing that and managing the
bottlenecks around it.”  Last month’s magnitude 6.3 temblor, which killed more than
160 people and wrecked buildings in the South Island city of
Christchurch, prompted Bollard to cut  interest rates  on March 10
to a record low 2.5 percent. Today he described the temblor’s
effect as a “huge event” by New Zealand standards.  “We think the damage, even on a conservative estimate, is
something like 8 percent of gross domestic product,” Bollard
said. “That’s probably significantly more in relative terms
than the Japanese disaster. So it’s very major.”  New Zealand’s dollar, the worst performing G-10 currency so
far in 2011, increased for a sixth day today, the longest
stretch of gains this year.  A government report yesterday showed the nation’s GDP rose
0.2 percent in the three months ended Dec. 31 from the previous
quarter, when it contracted 0.2 percent.  Bollard said today the result was unsurprising; the central
bank forecast 0.1 percent growth.  ‘Construction Boom’  Bollard said once the nation overcame the disruption and
uncertainty from the quake, it would experience “a very big
construction boom, by far the biggest New Zealand has ever
had.”  The local currency gained 0.1 percent to 75.01 U.S. cents
at 11:12 a.m. in Sydney and has risen 2.6 percent against the
 U.S. dollar  this week.  Ten of 14 economists surveyed on March 10 by Bloomberg News
expect Bollard will keep rates unchanged until next year. Four
predict a move higher in the fourth quarter.  The economy shrank in the third quarter for the first time
since the first quarter of 2009, which was the end of five
straight quarterly contractions as the global credit crisis
contributed to the nation’s worst recession in three decades.  Last month’s earthquake followed a magnitude 7 temblor that
rocked Christchurch and surrounding districts on Sept. 4,
wrecking homes but claiming no lives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  