-- 
NFL Seeks Human Growth Hormone Test in Labor Talks With Players

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-03-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/nfl-says-it-seeks-human-growth-hormone-test-in-labor-talks-with-players.html
The  National Football League  wants
a new collective bargaining agreement to include provisions
allowing players to be tested for the use of human growth
hormone.  Adolpho Birch, the league’s senior vice president of law
and labor policy, said testing for the banned performance-
enhancing substance is necessary to maintain the sport’s
integrity, protect the health of players and prevent young
athletes from mimicking the behavior of professionals who use
prohibited drugs.  “On all three counts, it’s something we feel is critical
to account for in our policy,” Birch said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “It’s always been banned. It’s not like
it’s legitimate now. Now that we have the ability to test for
it, we think it’s important to do so.”  Birch said the NFL had discussed testing for human growth
hormone, or HGH, which is already prohibited by the league,
with the  NFL Players Association  before labor talks broke down
March 11. The NFL locked out players after the union abandoned
collective bargaining and players sued the league in federal
court, accusing it of antitrust violations and wage fixing.  The NFL’s interest in testing for HGH was first reported
by  Foxsports.com . Olympic testing began in the summer of 2004
and  Major League Baseball  began testing minor league players
last year.  Former New England Patriots linebacker Tedy Bruschi said
testing for HGH is “the right thing to do.”  “Proper blood testing is the only way that you are going
to be able to detect these PEDs (performance-enhancing
drugs),” Bruschi said on ESPN’s “NFL Live” telecast. “You
want to level the playing field.”  Birch said the problems with HGH go beyond football.  More Than Sports  “It’s not ultimately just a sports or athletics issue,”
he said. “ We worry about the use by high school girls for
body image issues, for example. Given our position and the
impact we have, and the issues about competitive integrity,
those things make it especially important to us.”  Eric Grubman , the NFL’s executive vice president for
business ventures, said yesterday that the NFL has not yet
calculated how much it has lost in revenue due to the league
shutdown.  Grubman said the league’s long-term business partners,
while “steadfast in support of the NFL,” are concerned about
committing dollars to marketing or activating sponsorships
during a labor dispute that may cancel games next season.  ‘Really at Risk’  “They have marketing budgets they have to commit sooner
or later and they can’t commit them twice,” he said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. “So they are nervous
about it. They’ve got to make decisions. The TV companies are
selling advertising in the upfront. That’s what, in the short
term, is really at risk.”  Grubman said in January that the NFL might lose $120
million in ticket sales, sponsorship and media revenue if a
deal isn’t reached by March, and $1 billion if it takes until
September. Each week of missed games would mean a loss of $400
million, he said.  Grubman said yesterday that the league is working to
update its projections.  “They’re more or less along the lines that we
estimated,” he said. “We have to see what the clubs are
doing. A lot of those projected losses through the beginning of
the preseason were at the club level.”  Season-ticket renewals are doing better than league
projections, he said.  “The results are pretty strong relative to what we
expected,” he said. “We think it’s a sign that the fans,
although they’re mad at everybody for not getting a deal, deep
down they’re confident that we are going to get something
done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  