-- 
NFL’s Grubman Says League Has Not Yet Counted Shutdown's Revenue Losses

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   M a t t h e w   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-03-25T21:46:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/nfl-s-grubman-says-league-has-not-yet-counted-shutdown-s-revenue-losses.html
The  National Football League 
hasn’t yet calculated how much it has lost in revenue due
to the shutdown of the U.S.’s most-popular sport, according
to  Eric Grubman , executive vice president for business
ventures.  Grubman said the league’s long-term business partners,
while “steadfast in support of the NFL,” are concerned
about committing dollars to marketing or activating
sponsorships during a labor dispute that may cancel games
next season.  “They have marketing budgets they have to commit
sooner or later and they can’t commit them twice,” he said
today in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “So they
are nervous about it. They’ve got to make decisions. The TV
companies are selling advertising in the upfront. That’s
what, in the short term, is really at risk.”  NFL owners locked out players March 12 after federal
mediation failed to reach a deal on how to divide $9
billion in revenue -- the most of any U.S. sports league.
The move came after the players’ union abandoned its role
in collective bargaining and players sued the league in
federal court, accusing owners of violating antitrust law
and fixing wages.  Owners voted in 2008 to opt out of the deal, saying it
didn’t adequately account for costs such as those of
building stadiums.  Grubman said in January that the NFL might lose $120
million in ticket sales, sponsorship and media revenue if a
deal isn’t reached by this month, and $1 billion if it
takes until September. Each week of missed games would mean
a loss of $400 million, he said.  Grubman said today the league is working to update its
projections.  Season-Ticket Renewals  “They’re more or less along the lines that we
estimated,” he said. “We have to see what the clubs are
doing. A lot of those projected losses through the
beginning of the preseason were at the club level.”  Season-ticket renewals are doing better than league
projections, he said.  “The results are pretty strong relative to what we
expected,” he said. “We think it’s a sign that the fans,
although they’re mad at everybody for not getting a deal,
deep down they’re confident that we are going to get
something done.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Miller  in New York at 
 mtmiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  