-- 
No Buyers for Barnes & Noble at 60 Cents on Dollar: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-03-25T21:16:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/no-private-equity-buyer-for-barnes-noble-at-60-cents-on-dollar-real-m-a.html
Even with  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) 
selling for 60 cents on the dollar, the cheapest retailer in
America still isn’t cheap enough to entice private-equity buyers
looking for cash.  The bookseller founded by  Leonard Riggio  fell 28 percent
through yesterday since putting itself up for sale seven months
ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Losses accelerated
after the New York-based company eliminated its dividend in
February, leaving Barnes & Noble at a 15-year low last week. The
chain is the only U.S. retailer with a value of more than $500
million trading at a discount to its net assets.  Barnes & Noble retreated 80 percent through yesterday since
rising to a record five years ago as Riggio, who bought the
bookstore in 1971, fell behind  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  in selling books
over the Internet and starting an electronic reader business.
Now, with Barnes & Noble piling money into its Nook reader to
compete with the Kindle and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and analysts
projecting its first loss in a decade, the only buyer left may
be Riggio himself as private-equity firms back away after the
bankruptcy of Borders Group Inc., according to Wall Street
Strategies Inc. in New York.  “There’s not much to like,” said  Brian Sozzi , Wall Street
Strategies’ retail analyst. “One thing I’ve learned in retail
is once the model starts to go against you it’s tough to pull
yourself out. Assets on their books are losing value so quickly.
Other than Riggio, I don’t know who else would want it.”  Digital Divide  Barnes & Noble, which began exploring a sale in August,
will likely end its search without a buyer as private-equity
firms and strategic bidders backed away from the auction, five
people with knowledge of the process said this week.  Some potential bidders balked at a purchase because of how
long it may take Barnes & Noble to generate more digital sales,
said two of the people, who asked not to be identified because
negotiations aren’t public. Still, the auction isn’t over and
will probably last a few more weeks before Barnes & Noble
officially calls off the search, one of the people said.  The process is still ongoing,  Mary Ellen Keating , a
spokeswoman for Barnes & Noble, said in an e-mail.  The company’s shares slipped 0.3 percent to $9.22 in New
York Stock Exchange trading today. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index advanced 0.3 percent.  Kindle, Nook  Bookstores have been losing customers as more people shop
online and switch to reading digital content with devices such
as Amazon.com’s Kindle, which has 67 percent of the U.S. e-
reader market, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Barnes & Noble, the largest U.S. bookstore chain, released
its Nook in October 2009, about two years after the Kindle. Nook
has a 22 percent share, New York-based Goldman Sachs said.  Barnes & Noble’s closest competitor,  Ann Arbor , Michigan-
based Borders, filed for  bankruptcy protection  last month after
losses of almost $800 million since 2006. The retailer is trying
to restructure in court by closing 200 stores.  “Barnes & Noble needs to do immediately what Borders
waited too long to do,” said Jim McTevia, of Bingham Farms,
Michigan-based McTevia & Associates, a turnaround consultant. It
needs to start closing stores and “taking steps now to
restructure this company before it’s forced into a Chapter 11”
bankruptcy, he said.  “Borders has had a number of strategic decisions along the
way that were very different than Barnes & Noble,” Barnes &
Noble’s Chief Financial Officer Joseph Lombardi said in an
interview yesterday. “In June of last year we stood up in front
of the investment community and said this was our plan we were
going to execute. We are well on our way and positioning
ourselves beautifully to participate in the e-book market.”  Greenwich Village   Riggio, 70, started in 1965 with a college bookstore in
 Manhattan ’s Greenwich Village. In 1971, he bought the Barnes &
Noble name and its flagship store in Manhattan. The company
expanded through acquisitions, buying B. Dalton Bookseller and
Doubleday Bookshops. Since reaching an all-time high of $47.40
on March 16, 2006, shares of Barnes & Noble tumbled to $9.25
through yesterday, wiping out more than $2.5 billion in the
company’s market value, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Including dividends, which the bookseller decided to stop
paying last month, the drop would still be more than 75 percent,
the data show. That compares with a 51 percent return for
retailers in the  Standard & Poor’s  MidCap 400 Index.  Amazon.com of  Seattle , the largest online retailer, has
given shareholders an almost fivefold return on their investment
in the same period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Relative Value  Barnes & Noble is now the only U.S. retailer valued at a
discount to its net assets. The company sells for 0.6 times its
book value, or assets minus liabilities, which is less than 94
other U.S. retailers with market values of more than $500
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The bookstore chain also commands less per dollar of
revenue than any of its competitors, with its shares trading at
0.08 times sales in the past 12 months, the data show.  The valuation discounts are “synonymous with companies
that are really struggling,” said  Michael Souers , an analyst
for Standard & Poor’s in  New York . “From a valuation
perspective, it does look attractive but there’s concern about
longer-term trends and little momentum in the near term.”  Even with Barnes & Noble trading at a level suggesting
shareholders have more to gain from firing its managers and
liquidating the company, private equity firms are wary of
putting money into Barnes & Noble because it doesn’t generate
enough cash to support a leveraged buyout and lacks property to
sell off, according to Oscar Gruss & Son Inc.’s Bill Kavaler.  Cash Flow   Barnes & Noble ran a deficit from operations, after
deducting  capital spending , of $166 million in the past 12
months, one of only two mid-sized U.S. retailers with a
shortfall in free cash flow, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s not generating cash, the future is too uncertain,
the ability to lever the company is constrained,” said Kavaler,
a special situations analyst at Oscar Gruss in New York. “It’s
not a private-equity thing.”  Barnes & Noble has sacrificed profits over the past year to
invest in its digital strategy, losing $14.5 million in the nine
months through January. Competition has increased as Cupertino,
California-based Apple started selling e-books and released the
iPad, which can be used to buy and read digital titles.  While the Nook line of readers has become the company’s
best-selling product and boosted same-store sales last quarter
for the first time since 2007, Barnes & Noble only retained 26
cents for each dollar of sales in the past 12 months after
subtracting the cost of goods sold, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That’s the lowest of any mid-sized U.S. retailer.  ‘Transitioning Itself’  Net income has fallen in each of the past three years and
analysts now estimate that Barnes & Noble will lose money this
year and next. The company doesn’t disclose how much income it
makes on its e-readers and analysts including S&P’s Souers say
the Nook is sold for a minimal profit or a loss.  “Barnes & Noble is trying to work on transitioning itself,
it’s just the answers aren’t clear,” said  Timothy Ghriskey ,
chief investment officer at the Solaris Group LLC in  Bedford
Hills , New York, which manages $2 billion. “A potential
acquirer hasn’t stepped forward and said this is a great value
here and I’m just not sure who that acquirer would be.”  Riggio, the largest shareholder, and the rest of the board
began examining a possible sale under pressure from  Ron Burkle ,
who began building a stake in the company in late 2008.  Poison Pill  The board responded to Burkle’s purchases by introducing a
so-called poison pill in November 2009 to limit his ownership to
20 percent. Yucaipa Cos., Burkle’s Los Angeles-based investment
fund, sued to overturn the pill and lost. Yucaipa held almost 19
percent of Barnes & Noble as of October, compared with about 30
percent for Riggio, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Since August, the company’s market value has dwindled from
more than $750 million to $555 million, the data show.  By taking Barnes & Noble private himself, Riggio would be
able to run the company without having to answer to other
shareholders, according to Kavaler at Oscar Gruss. Riggio told
the company’s board he would consider joining an investor group
to acquire Barnes & Noble, according to a statement in August.  “This shouldn’t be a public company and it shouldn’t be a
private equity company,” Kavaler said. “It should be a
private, family-held company. When it works they make a lot of
money, and when it doesn’t work it doesn’t cost anybody outside
of the family anything.”  Overall, there have been 5,420 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $549.5 billion, a 22 percent increase from
the $450.9 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 