-- 
Nordea Bank Seizes Korea Line Singapore Vessels to Recoup Debt

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-03-25T10:38:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/nordea-bank-seizes-korea-line-singapore-vessels-to-recoup-debt.html
Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ’s Singapore unit
seized two vessels from  Korea Line Corp. (005880) ’s local subsidiary in a
bid to recoup $64.9 million in debt.  Nordea Bank arrested the Blue Diamond ship yesterday and
the Blue Coral earlier this month, the bank’s lawyer Corina Song
of Allen & Gledhill LLP, said by phone today. The ships were
pledged as collateral for an $82 million loan in October 2006,
the bank said in a March 17 lawsuit with the Singapore High
Court.  “Due to a change in circumstances, the action is no longer
necessary as we’ve arrested the Blue Diamond,” Song said,
referring to the suit.  Two of Korea Line’s vessels were seized in  Singapore , the
ship operator said in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg News
questions. It didn’t comment on the lawsuit.  Korea Line, the country’s second-biggest operator of dry-
bulk ships has sought to bar creditors from seizing its assets.
The Korean shipping line, seeking to restructure 2.23 trillion
won ($2 billion) of debt, went into receivership in  Seoul  and
filed for U.S. bankruptcy protection last month.  Korea Line posted losses in seven of the past eight
reported quarters as it hired vessels on long-term contracts
before a glut of new ships and slowing demand in  China  caused
rates to tumble.  Three other vessels owned by the Singapore unit have been
seized by other creditors in the U.S., according to Nordea’s
court filing.  The case is Nordea Bank Finland Plc, Singapore Branch v
Korea Line (Singapore) Pte OS220/2011 in the Singapore High
Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  