-- 
Nuclear Stress-Test Details Needed ‘Soon,’ EU Leaders Say

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-03-25T14:42:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/nuclear-stress-test-details-needed-soon-eu-leaders-say-1-.html
European Union leaders ordered the
details of planned EU-wide safety checks on nuclear  power plants 
to be drawn up “as soon as possible” and vowed to press
neighboring countries to participate.  The EU government heads called for a “comprehensive and
transparent risk and safety assessment” of the region’s 143
atomic plants following the nuclear accident in Japan. The
political difficulty of the task ahead was highlighted when
Polish Prime Minister  Donald Tusk  said the subject provoked a
“real storm” at the Brussels summit.  “It’s not enough to deal with the safety of nuclear
reactors only at a national level,” German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said today at the 27-nation EU meeting. “We need to
agree on the highest level of safety.”  With the “stress tests” on the EU’s atomic plants due to
start in the second half of the year, the political challenge is
ensuring the checks are stringent enough and any sites that fail
are shut. The tests may cover threats from earthquakes, floods,
airplane crashes and terrorists as well as reactors’ cooling
systems and their age, EU energy officials said earlier this
week.  Nuclear power stations owned by companies including
Electricite de France SA and  Germany ’s  RWE AG (RWE)  produce a third of
the electricity in the EU, which wants to draw up common
criteria to gauge nuclear safety in response to the Japanese
crisis.  Nuclear Meltdown  “It is difficult to agree a common stance,” Tusk said.
“There are countries that have nuclear power and want to have
more of it, countries that have it and want to phase it out,
countries that want to ban it and also countries that don’t have
nuclear plants but want to build them.”  The government of  Poland , among 13 EU countries that
produce no nuclear power, plans to allow the building of the
first Polish atomic plant.  The risk of a nuclear meltdown in  Japan  after a March 11
earthquake and tsunami triggered public protests in  Europe 
against atomic power and prompted Germany to order a temporary
halt to the country’s seven oldest reactors. Japan’s nuclear
regulator said earlier today that one reactor core at the quake-
damaged Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant may be cracked and
leaking radiation.  Radiation Levels  “The priority of ensuring the safety of nuclear plants
obviously cannot stop at our borders,” according to a statement
from the European summit. “The EU will request that similar
‘stress tests’ be carried out in the neighboring countries and
worldwide, regarding both existing and planned plants.”  European Commission President Jose Barroso said non-EU
countries on the bloc’s border such as Switzerland and  Turkey 
have a duty to take part.  “We respect the sovereign right of our neighbours, but we
believe that these matters are matters of global
responsibility,” said Barroso. He highlighted the potential
worldwide health impact of the Japanese accident by saying that,
while radiation levels in Europe haven’t changed, “of course we
are following this issue with great care.”  It’s up to national governments in the EU to decide whether
to use nuclear power. Safety is a shared responsibility between
national and EU authorities.  The leaders asked the commission, the EU’s regulatory arm,
and a group of member-state authorities to develop “as soon as
possible the scope and modalities of these tests in a
coordinated framework,” according to the statement.  Public Anxiety  “The assessments will be conducted by independent national
authorities and through peer review,” said the text. “Their
outcome and any necessary subsequent measures that will be
taken, should be shared with the commission” and “should be
made public.”  France , which gets about 80 percent of its electricity from
nuclear plants, has emphasized that national authorities are
responsible for deciding on the life of atomic plants. French
reactors will remain a “fundamental” source of energy for the
country, Industry Minister Eric Besson said on March 21. French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said today that France would close any
of its reactors that fail the tests.  EU governments in 2009 set their first common standards for
the construction and operation of atomic reactors, saying the
industry’s growth requires steps to ease public anxiety about
the risks. A draft law proposed last year would broaden EU
safety oversight by setting bloc-wide standards for nuclear-
waste disposal.  In their statement, the European leaders pledged “full
implementation” of the 2009 law, noted that the commission may
propose a tightening of it next year and called for approval of
the waste-disposal legislation “as soon as possible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  