-- 
Obama Briefs Congressional Leaders on Libya, NATO Progress

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-03-25T22:12:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/obama-briefs-congressional-leaders-on-libya-nato-progress-1-.html
President  Barack Obama , facing
calls to better explain U.S. strategy in Libya, briefed members
of Congress on the status of military operations and the
transfer of command to NATO.  The president, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and other
administration officials discussed the Libya operation, and
Obama answered “multiple questions” from lawmakers of both
political parties who participated in person or by telephone, a
White House statement said. Clinton also participated by phone,
the statement said.  House Speaker John Boehner’s spokesman Kevin Smith said in
an e-mail afterward that while the Ohio Republican “appreciated
the update,” he believed “much more needs to be done by the
administration to provide clarity” about military objectives in
Libya and how the U.S. role is consistent with the nation’s
policies.  Twenty-one lawmakers, including senior members of
congressional committees that oversee the military, foreign
affairs and intelligence, participated in the one-hour briefing
based in the White House Situation Room.  Among them were House Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a
California Democrat; Senator  John McCain  of Arizona, ranking
Republican on the Armed Services Committee, and Senate Foreign
Relations Committee Chairman  John Kerry , a Massachusetts
Democrat. Other participants included House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican, and House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer of  Maryland .  NATO Takeover  The group discussed allies’ agreement to direct planning
for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to take over command
and control of the civilian protection part of the military
action, the White House statement said.  Lawmakers, including some in Obama’s own party, have said
the president didn’t adequately consult Congress before the
military operation began March 19.  Clinton, Defense Secretary Robert Gates and other officials
are scheduled to brief House members behind closed doors on
March 30. Clinton is to appear at a hearing of the House Foreign
Affairs Committee the following day.  “It’s our responsibility” to inform Congress, White House
spokesman  Jay Carney  said at a briefing today. “We take the
need to consult very seriously. And the president will continue
to do that, as will senior members of his administration.”  Even so, Carney said “there was an urgency to act” in
 Libya  because there was evidence that Muammar Qaddafi’s forces
“were about to move on Benghazi and wreak horrible damage and
kill many, many Libyans.”  “I think there’s very little doubt that Benghazi would
have fallen and that many people would have died,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joe Sobczyk at 
 jsobczyk@bloomberg.net  