-- 
Obama Will Give Address on Libya Military Action as Lawmakers Seek Answers

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-03-26T15:05:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/obama-said-to-plan-march-28-address-to-nation-on-military-action-in-libya.html
President  Barack Obama  will address
the nation next week on the U.S. and allied military action in
Libya as he faces continued questions from some lawmakers about
the mission’s goals and costs.  The president will talk about “the actions we’ve taken
with allies and partners to protect the Libyan people from the
brutality of  Muammar Qaddafi , the transition to NATO command and
control, and our policy going forward,” according to a White
House statement.  The speech is scheduled for 7:30 p.m. local time on March
28 at the  National Defense University  in Washington. Obama, in
his weekly radio and Internet address today, said the U.S. and
its allies have halted Qaddafi’s forces, destroyed his air
defenses and prevented a “humanitarian catastrophe.”  Obama said that, while the U.S. shouldn’t get involved in
every crisis, “when someone like Qaddafi threatens a bloodbath
that could destabilize an entire region, and when the
international community is prepared to come together to save
many thousands of lives, then it’s in our national interest to
act.” The nation has a “responsibility” to help in  Libya , the
president said.  Briefing Congress  The March 28 address was announced yesterday after Obama
and members of his administration spent about an hour briefing
Republican and Democratic leaders in the Senate and the House
and senior members of congressional committees dealing with the
military, foreign affairs and intelligence.  The U.S. and allies including  France  and the U.K. are
enforcing a United Nations mandate to protect Libyan civilians
by imposing a no-fly zone over the north African nation and
prevent Qaddafi’s forces from attacking cities. Members of the
28-nation North Atlantic Treaty Organization have agreed to take
over command of the no-fly zone from the U.S., and spokeswoman
Oana Lungescu said yesterday that NATO was “actively
considering” a broader role in all operations.  The day after Obama’s speech, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  is scheduled to join foreign ministers from nations
involved in the Libya campaign at a meeting in  London  intended
to hammer out a framework for the political direction.  Yesterday’s briefing, conducted with some lawmakers present
in the Situation Room and others taking part via conference
call, failed to quell calls by House Speaker  John Boehner  for a
fuller explanation of U.S. goals in Libya.  Clarity Sought  While Boehner, an Ohio Republican, “appreciated the
update,” he thinks “much more needs to be done by the
administration to provide clarity” about military objectives in
Libya and how the U.S. role is consistent with the nation’s
policies, spokesman  Kevin Smith  said in an e-mail afterward.  In a letter to Obama earlier this week, Boehner challenged
the president to explain the “contradiction” between his
declaration that Qaddafi “must go” and repeated administration
statements that regime change isn’t the aim of the military
campaign.  Representative  Adam Smith  of Washington, the top Democrat
on the House Armed Services Committee, said Obama made clear at
the briefing that Qaddafi’s regime won’t be overturned by
military force.  “We are not going to force him out militarily,” Smith
said in a telephone interview, recounting the discussion with
the president.  No Exact Timeline  Smith said the president didn’t give an exact timeline for
when NATO-led operations and the U.S. support mission will end.  Obama did tell lawmakers that the U.S. has no plans to send
ground troops into Libya to remove Qaddafi from power, said a
Republican aide familiar with the discussion.  The president also said that prosecutors at the
 International Criminal Court  in  The Hague  have begun efforts to
bring Qaddafi to justice, according to the aide.  Among the criticisms leveled by lawmakers from both parties
is that Obama didn’t consult with Congress before committing
U.S. armed forces.  “It’s fair to say there should have been more
consultation” before military operations began March 19, Smith
said. Obama, who briefed congressional leaders March 18, “has
made up a great deal for that” since then by reaching out to
lawmakers, he said.  “We take the need to consult very seriously,” White House
spokesman  Jay Carney  said at a briefing yesterday. “And the
president will continue to do that, as will senior members of
his administration.”  ‘Urgency to Act’  Carney said “there was an urgency to act” in Libya before
Congress returned from a weeklong recess because there was
evidence that Qaddafi loyalists “were about to move on Benghazi
and wreak horrible damage and kill many, many Libyans.”  “I think there’s very little doubt that Benghazi would
have fallen and that many people would have died,” he said.  Clinton, Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  and other officials
are scheduled to brief House members behind closed doors on
March 30.  After popular uprisings across the region that toppled
longtime leaders in Egypt and Tunisia, the Libyan rebellion has
evolved into a civil war. Libya holds  Africa ’s largest oil
reserves, and concern about the turmoil there has helped push
 oil prices  up about 25 percent since fighting began last month.  Obama hasn’t built broad public support for the military
action in Libya. A  Gallup poll  conducted March 21 found support
for the mission is the lowest at the outset of a U.S. military
action in the past three decades. Forty-seven percent of
Americans approve of the Libya mission, while 37 percent
disapprove. By comparison, 51 percent approved of the
intervention in  Kosovo  in 1999 and 76 percent approved at the
start of the war in  Iraq  in 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  