-- 
Obama Under Pressure to Clear ‘Ambiguity’ From Libya, Middle East Strategy

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-03-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/obama-under-pressure-to-clear-ambiguity-from-libya-middle-east-strategy.html
Almost a week after U.S. warplanes
began dropping bombs on  Libya , House Speaker  John Boehner  fired
off a letter to President  Barack Obama  that posed a basic
question: What are we fighting for?  Obama’s responses to unrest throughout the Middle East and
his actions in Libya show an approach to projecting U.S. power
that contrasts with the certitude of President  George W. Bush ’s
doctrine of unilateral preemption of perceived threats and
promotion of democracy.  The emerging Obama doctrine balances humanitarian ideals
and pragmatic national interests, places a premium on
international backing and accepts limited goals.  The result is not easily explained.  “The Obama administration does not have a simple tale to
tell, and the tale it has told it has told poorly,” said James Lindsay, a former national security staff member in President
 Bill Clinton ’s administration. “If you don’t tell your story
well, you start off with less support.”  In seeking to limit the commitment of U.S. forces and gain
an international cast for military intervention in Libya, Obama
has embarked on a complex strategy -- one stirring criticism
that he is endangering success with muddled goals.  ‘Contradiction’  In his letter to Obama, Boehner challenged the president to
explain the “contradiction” between his declaration that
 Muammar Qaddafi  “must go” and repeated administration
statements that regime change isn’t the aim of the military
campaign. Senator  Richard Lugar  of  Indiana , the senior
Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said the
administration’s “ambiguity” may hurt the military operation
and public support.  Lugar’s warning is reflected in a  Gallup poll  conducted
March 21 that found support for the Libya mission is the lowest
at the outset of a U.S. military action in the past three
decades. Forty-seven percent of Americans approve of the Libya
mission, while 37 percent disapprove. By comparison, 51 percent
approved of the intervention in  Kosovo  in 1999 and 76 percent
approved at the start of the war in  Iraq  in 2003.  Despite the criticism,  Edward Djerejian , a former U.S.
ambassador to Syria and  Israel , said the military mission in
Libya flows from a “coherent” strategy.  ‘Logical Approach’  “The administration’s policy is to avoid a humanitarian
disaster and try to level the playing field in Libya to give the
rebels more opportunity to confront the Qaddafi regime,” said
Djerejian, founding director of the  Baker Institute for Public
Policy  at  Rice University  in Houston. “That certainly seems
like a logical approach to adopt without the U.S. being
overstretched.”  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters
yesterday that while some of the administration’s critics are
“perhaps driven by politics,” the questions from lawmakers
“are legitimate and need to be answered.”  The president hasn’t made any public statements since his
return from Latin America March 23. Carney said Obama “looks
forward to communicating with the American public” on Libya.  The danger of public support eroding may be lessened by the
narrow scope of the campaign, said Lawrence Korb, a former
Defense Department official now at the Center for American
Progress, a policy research group in  Washington .  “No Americans are dying, and it’s not costing that much
money,” Korb said.  The airstrikes backed by the Obama administration headed
off a potential massacre in Benghazi, Libya’s second-largest
city, that was already stirring comparisons to the 1995 killing
of 8,000 Bosnian Muslims in Srebrenica, Djerejian said. Inaction
in the face of the threat would have been an international
embarrassment for the U.S., particularly after the Arab League
endorsed creation of a no-fly zone, he said.  Added Pressure  The military campaign, on top of a sanctions regime
targeting financial assets of the Libyan leader and his allies,
adds new pressure on Qaddafi’s supporters to abandon him,
Djerejian said.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  alluded to the strategy
when she said March 19 in Paris that the bombing campaign would
“make a new environment” in which people close to Qaddafi
might turn on him.  While that may amount to “a roll of the dice,” Djerejian
said, the outcome cannot be assured when the U.S. enters any
conflict. “The end games are never guaranteed in any of these
scenarios,” he said.  The president has joined his stance that Qaddafi must
relinquish power to a United Nations-sanctioned coalition with a
mission limited to protecting the civilian population. That
leaves open the possibility of a stalemate or a resolution in
which Qaddafi retains a role in government, or perhaps even
prevails.  Goals in Tension  R. Nicholas Burns, the third-ranking official in the State
Department during Bush’s second term, said the tension among the
goals in Libya may be exacerbated as the U.S. hands over more
control of the military operation to its partners.  While the U.S. has interpreted the UN resolution’s mandate
broadly to include tactical air strikes in support of rebel
forces, coalition partners might be more reluctant to do so,
said Burns, now a professor at Harvard University’s  Kennedy
School of Government  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . The air
campaign so far has not stopped Qaddafi’s forces, and a
protracted civil war is a likely outcome, he said.  “When times get tough, if there are civilian casualties,
God forbid, if there’s a failure in any way in the war effort,
there will be second-guessing,” Burns said. “They’ll perhaps
pursue an overly restrictive and narrow interpretation of the
mandate.”  Arab League  Secretary General Amr Moussa already has
criticized air strikes in Libya, and Arab nations that promised
assistance for the mission have been slow to provide support,
Burns said.  “It’s not easy to hold together a political coalition in
war,” Burns said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  