-- 
Mogwai Rocks, Dancing in Dark, Venice Masters: Brussels Weekend

-- B y   J i m   R u a n e
-- 
2011-03-25T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/mogwai-rocks-dance-in-dark-venice-masters-orhan-pamuk-brussels-weekend.html
A blast of intense, rhythmic energy
from four young women on a darkened stage will erase any
lingering work-week concerns. Anne Teresa de Keersmaeker’s dance
troupe is performing masterwork “Rosas Danst Rosas” as part of
a retrospective of the choreographer’s early pieces.  The show starts at 8:30 p.m. Kaaitheater, 20 Square
Sainctelettesquare. Information:  http://www.kaaitheater.be  or
+322-201-5959.  Saturday  A striking selection of David Seymour’s photographs is on
display in the Sablon quarter. His stark, black-and-white shots
of the Spanish civil war are still stirring. Seymour, also known
as Chim, was a founder of the  Magnum  picture agency.  “David Seymour (Chim), a Humanist Photographer” runs
through March 27 at the Jewish Museum of  Belgium , 22 Rue des
Minimes/Minimenstraat. Information:  http://www.mjb-jmb.org/  or
+322-512-1963.  A fine venue for lunch and people watching is Au Vieux
Saint Martin, a classy brasserie on the Place du Sablon. Try the
fish and chips, the fries are irresistible. Information:
 http://www.auvieuxsaintmartin.be/ .  Browse among the lavish displays at Eurantica, a sort of
mini-Maastricht featuring some 150 dealers in art and antiques.
The focus is on classic antiques, 20th-century art and non-
European cultures, with impressive African works.  The fair is at Brussels Expo, Palais/ Paleis 5, facing
local retro-landmark the Atomium, through April 3. Information:
 http://www.euroantica.be  or +322-740-1030.  Saturday Night  Scottish “post-rock” group  Mogwai  brings its guitar-heavy
soundscapes to town for those who have an aversion to songs and
the patience to endure austere meandering solos.  The concert is at 8 p.m. Ancienne Belgique, 110 Boulevard
Anspach/Anspachlaan. The AB Cafe has a short, decent menu. The
salmon lasagne is nice. Information:  http://www.abconcerts.be/ 
or +322-548-2484; AB Cafe, +322-548-2455.  Sunday  “La Finta Giardiniera” is a bucolic romp by the teenage
Mozart that has dazzling arias and an impenetrable plot. The
wonderful singers -- Sandrine Piau, Jeremy Ovenden, Stella
Doufexis and Jeffrey Francis -- shine in this poetic Prague
production, based on a Karl-Ernst and Ursel Herrmann staging.  The matinee starts at 3 p.m. La Monnaie/De Munt, Place de
la Monnaie/Muntplein. Information:  http://www.lamonnaie.be  or
+32-7023-3939.  Alternatively, you could soak in culture at  Bozar , a
labyrinthine arts temple, which offers lively Sunday morning
activities for kids. It’s also hosting “Venetian and Flemish
Masters,” a show of works by painters including Bellini,
Titian, Tiepolo and Guardi from the  Accademia Carrara  in
Bergamo,  Italy . Guest stars are pictures by Van Eyck, Rubens and
Jordaens from the  Royal Museum of Fine Arts  in Antwerp.  Berlinde de Bruyckere’s works, which resemble sculptural
versions of Francis Bacon paintings, make an apt though eerie
fit with the often gory pietas and crucifixions on display.  A retrospective devoted to Luc Tuymans has landed here
after touring four U.S. cities. His pictures, with their bleak
tones, giant close-ups inspired by camera angles and faded power
figures, seek to debunk the force of the media.  Sunday Night  Orhan Pamuk will close the Passa Porta Festival, an annual
weekend literary jamboree, with a lecture at Bozar reflecting
the event’s theme “On the Move.” The Turkish Nobel Prize
winner is among more than 100 authors including Peter Esterhazy,
Andrea Levy, Jens Christian Grondahl, David Mitchell, Juli Zeh
and Douglas Kennedy taking part in the downtown festival, which
features literary promenades, writers debating soccer, poetry
train rides and, of course, readings.  Bozar’s Art Deco brasserie, run by Michelin-starred chef
 David Martin , is a draw in itself. Try “Like a Shrimp
Croquette,” a creamy, deconstructed version of a North Sea
classic or the Simmental beef grilled in a Josper oven.  Bozar, 23, Rue Ravensteinstraat. The exhibitions run
through May 8. The Pahmuk event is at 6:30 p.m. Information:
 http://www.bozar.be ; Bozar Brasserie: +322-503-0000;
 http://www.passaporta.be  or +322-226-0454.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jim Ruane in Brussels at 
 jruane1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 