-- 
Oil Futures Decline After Stalling Below $107 Amid European, Japan Crises

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-03-25T20:16:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/oil-declines-in-n-y-after-stalling-below-107-amid-european-japan-crises.html
Oil edged lower in  New York  as
crude failed to breach technical resistance at its 30-month high
and on concern that the European debt situation and the crisis
in  Japan  will curb fuel demand.  Oil dropped for a second day after foundering near its
March 7 peak. The European Union cut the amount committed to an
emergency support system for the euro region, and Japan’s
nuclear regulator said a reactor core at a quake-damaged plant
may be cracked and leaking radiation.  “The decline is more technical than anything else, though
there are a combination of concerns about the European debt
crisis and that the Japanese nuclear breach could delay the
rebuilding of Japan a little bit,” said  Phil Flynn , vice
president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago .  Crude for May delivery fell 20 cents to settle at $105.40 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices have risen
3.5 percent since March 18, the first weekly advance in three.
They have gained 31 percent in the past year.  Futures touched $106.69 a barrel yesterday, near the March
7 intraday high of $106.95, the highest price since September
2008. Prices often fail to extend gains when traders’ sell
orders are clustered at specific levels, creating so-called
price resistance.  New York oil has rallied 25 percent since protests began
Feb. 15 in Libya, a member of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries. The conflict is the bloodiest in uprisings
that have toppled the presidents of Tunisia and  Egypt  and spread
to Algeria, Bahrain, Iran, Oman, Syria and  Yemen .  “We’re having difficulty maintaining upward price
momentum,” said  Jim Ritterbusch , president of Ritterbusch &
Associates, a Galena, Illinois-based consulting company. “We
tried to push up to those March highs yesterday and failed just
below the $107 mark.”  European Debt Crisis  Oil slipped as EU leaders acceded to German demands to make
smaller upfront payments for the support fund. The move raised
fresh concern over whether they will be able to quell the debt
crisis amid speculation that  Portugal  will be the next country
to seek aid. Fitch Ratings cut Portugal’s credit rankings
yesterday.  Futures also fell after Hidehiko Nishiyama, a spokesman at
the Japan Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency, and the
International Atomic Energy Agency said it’s possible there is a
leak in the No. 3 reactor at the country’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant. The facility was shut after Japan’s largest-ever
earthquake on March 11 left it without power to cool nuclear
fuel rods, triggering the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl.  U.S. Economy ,  Libya   Oil increased as much as 0.3 percent earlier as the U.S.
economy expanded more than previously forecast in the fourth
quarter and a western-led coalition stepped up its bombardment
of targets within Libya, the third-biggest oil producer in
Africa and holder of the continent’s largest reserves.  The economy grew at a 3.1 percent annual rate in the fourth
quarter, compared with a 2.8 percent estimate last month,
according to Commerce Department figures released in  Washington .  Libya’s crude exports may be curbed for months because of
sanctions and damage to production facilities, the International
Energy Agency said March 15.  “So long as ongoing problems in the Middle East continue
to elevate risks of a further supply disruption, there is a
strong likelihood of a price spike in the second quarter as the
market demands additional oil to meet summer demand,” according
to a JPMorgan Chase & Co. report today from analysts led by New
York-based Lawrence Eagles.  Brent Crude  JPMorgan raised its forecast for London-traded Brent oil to
$118 a barrel for the three months ending in June.  Brent crude for May settlement dropped 13 cents to $115.59
a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London .  OMV AG (OMV) , which has been active in Yemen since 2003, said it
halted crude oil production in the Middle Eastern country and
evacuated all 60 of its expatriate staff after a pipeline
explosion 10 days ago.  Yemenis gathered for competing rallies in different parts
of the capital Sana’a today as the opposition demanded President
Abdullah Saleh’s immediate departure and tribesmen marched in
his support. Clashes in Yemen have killed 83 protesters since
March 12, Ezzedine el Asbahy, director of Yemen’s Human Rights
Information Training Center, said today in Paris.  Syrian President Bashar Al-Assad’s security forces cracked
down on protests today as promises of new freedoms and pay
increases weren’t enough to keep dissent from spreading across
the country. Troops opened fire today in several cities,
including the southern city of Daraa, the scene of the biggest
demonstrations in recent days, the  Associated Press  reported.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 399,029
contracts as of 3:19 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 537,199
contracts yesterday, 33 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.52 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 