-- 
Oil Trades Near Two-Week High on Libya Conflict; JPMorgan Raises Forecast

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-03-25T12:32:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/oil-trades-near-two-day-high-on-libya-conflict-jpmorgan-raises-forecast.html
Oil traded near a two-week high in
 New York  as continued fighting in Libya fanned concern that
unrest in the Middle East will further disrupt supply.  Futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange, at about $105
a barrel today, are heading for their first weekly gain in three
weeks as Allied warplanes renewed strikes against ground forces
loyal to Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi . JPMorgan Chase & Co.
raised its forecast for London-traded  Brent crude  to $118 a
barrel, citing the conflict in North Africa in a report today.  “So long as ongoing problems in the Middle East continue
to elevate risks of a further supply disruption, there is a
strong likelihood of a price spike in the second quarter as the
market demands additional oil to meet summer demand,” JPMorgan
analysts led by New York-based Lawrence Eagles said.  Crude for May delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
was up 6 cents at $105.66 a barrel at 12:30 p.m.  London  time. It
earlier climbed to $105.88. Brent crude for May settlement
slipped 13 cents to $115.59 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London, after settling yesterday at the highest
since March 9.  New York prices have climbed 4.5 percent this week, the
first gain in three, and are up 31 percent from a year earlier.
The commodity rose to a 2 1/2-year high of $106.95 on March 7.  Brent will average $118 a barrel in the second quarter
because of export halts in Libya, JPMorgan said in its monthly
report. Prices may “spend some time” above $120 and reach as
high as $130, according to the second-largest  U.S. bank . Futures
last traded at that level in July 2008.  ‘Tolerance Friday’  New York crude has rallied 25 percent since protests began
Feb. 15 in Libya, a member of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries. The conflict is the bloodiest in a wave of
uprisings that has toppled the presidents of Tunisia and Egypt
and spread to Algeria, Bahrain, Iran, Oman, Syria and Yemen.  Yemen’s strengthening opposition movement plans to march to
the Presidential Palace today and hold nationwide protests as
government supporters pour into Sana’a, the capital, for a rally
dubbed “Tolerance Friday.”  Libya’s crude exports may be curbed for months due to
sanctions and damage to production facilities, the  International
Energy Agency  said March 15. The country is the third-biggest
producer in  Africa  and holds the continent’s largest reserves.  Shipments from OPEC will drop to the lowest since October
because of Libya’s civil war, according to tanker-tracker Oil
Movements in Halifax,  England . The producers’ group, which pumps
40 percent of the world’s crude, may raise official output
targets at its next meeting June 8, said David Kirsch, an
analyst at PFC Energy, a consultant in  Kansas City .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  