-- 
Tombini Says Brazil Analysts May Boost Inflation Forecasts

-- B y   F e l i p e   F r i s c h   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 
2011-03-25T19:38:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/tombini-says-brazil-analysts-may-boost-inflation-forecasts-1-.html
Brazilian central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said inflation forecasts may “worsen” as
analysts factor in the residual impact from the global rally in
commodity prices.  “It’s possible that we will see a marginal worsening in
the perception of inflation by agents,” Tombini said during a
speech to business leaders in  Sao Paulo . ’’But in the absence of
new shocks this process will tend to run out in the short
term.’’  Analysts covering the Brazilian economy raised their 2011
inflation outlook to a high of 5.88 percent, according to the
median estimate in a central bank  survey  published March 21.
Consumer prices in the 12 months through mid-March rose 6.13
percent, the biggest jump in more than two years.  Traders are wagering the central bank will lift the
benchmark interest rate to 12.75 percent by year-end in a bid to
bring inflation back to target, according to Bloomberg estimates
based on interest rate futures.  The yield on interest rate futures contracts maturing in
January 2012, the most traded in Sao Paulo, rose four basis
points to 12.25 percent at 2:20 p.m. New York time.  Raising Rates  The central bank raised borrowing costs twice this year,
pushing the Selic rate to 11.75 percent from 10.75 percent in
December. Traders expect policy makers to lift the overnight
rate by at least a quarter-point in its April meeting, interest
rate futures show.  Tombini said that the impact of external price shocks takes
time to fully reveal itself and that in the current global
environment it’s even more challenging.  In a March 22 testimony to Congress, the head of the
central bank said policy makers may adopt new measures to curb
consumer credit growth in a bid to cool demand. He said today
demand in Latin America’s biggest economy is outpacing
production growth.  Domestic demand, coupled with a stronger real, will help
widen the current account deficit to a record $60 billion in
2011, up from $48 billion last year, the central bank said in a
report distributed from Brasilia today. Previously, the bank saw
the current account gap widening to $64 billion this year. A $15
billion  trade surplus , bigger than the previously estimated $11
billion, will help narrow the gap, the bank said.  Foreign Investment  Economic growth, which accelerated to 7.5 percent last
year, will help the country attract foreign direct investment,
expected to rise to a record $55 billion, Tulio Maciel, deputy
head of the central bank’s economic research department, told
reporters today.  FDI rose to $7.7 billion in February, beating the $7
billion median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 11 analysts. In
February the account gap narrowed to $3.4 billion, down from
$5.4 billion in January.  The fastest economic growth in more than two decades and a
40 percent rally by the real since the end of 2008 have been
fueling imports as Brazilians travel abroad and boost spending
on imported goods.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Felipe Frisch in Sao Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomber.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  