-- 
London, Los Angeles, Boston Face Protests Over Cuts, Taxes

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-03-25T15:26:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/london-los-angeles-boston-face-protests-over-cuts-taxes.html
Thousands of students, public-
sector workers and tax activists will take to the streets of
London tomorrow to protest Britain’s deepest public spending
cuts since World War II. In  Los Angeles ,  Boston  and Buffalo,
demonstrators will demand companies pay more tax.  UK Uncut, a group that uses humor to demand companies pay
more tax, said it seeks to shut shops and occupy branches of
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and
 Barclays Plc. (BARC)  It plans to turn an Alliance Boots Plc pharmacy
into a hospital and a Barclays into a church “bail-in”
service. US Uncut plans events in 40 cities, including Los
Angeles and Boston, targeting  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   UK Uncut’s focus on London’s Oxford Street will coincide
with a demonstration organized by the  Trades Union Congress  at
which thousands of people will march through the city to a rally
in Hyde Park. The TUC and UK Uncut say the cuts wouldn’t be so
painful if companies and bankers paid their fair share of tax.  “We don’t want to pay for the banking crisis,” said Becca
Davies, 32, a UK Uncut organizer and Londoner who works in
education. “The people on benefits shouldn’t have to be
destroyed to pay for the banks. We all pay our taxes,
corporations should do the same.”  The U.K. coalition government plans cuts that will cost
more than 300,000 public-sector jobs over four years as it
tackles a 146 billion-pound ($235 billion) deficit. U.K.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said March 23 that
corporate tax would be reduced for the next four years, bringing
it to 23 percent. The government said it would raise the bank
levy next year as an offset.  Bank Bonuses  U.K. protesters have focused on bank bonuses as well as
taxes. RBS, which is 83 percent owned by the taxpayer, said
March 17 that it paid 323 people it designated as key staff an
average 1.16 million pounds each. Barclays awarded Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  as much as 10.1 million pounds
in salary, bonuses and stock for work last year.  Banks worldwide were bailed out with taxpayers’ money after
the September 2008 collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) 
More than 60 percent of the U.K.’s 2.24 trillion-pound national
debt was generated through taxpayer assistance to banks,
according to Office for National Statistics estimates.  “The people whose jobs were destroyed were in no way
responsible for the excesses of the financial sector and the
crisis that followed,”  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
told a parliamentary committee on March 1. “I’m surprised the
real anger hasn’t been greater than it has.”  Barclays, Tesco  Barclays, whose Canary Wharf headquarters lobby was
occupied March 7 by local residents, said in an e-mailed
statement that “we are one of the U.K.’s largest taxpayers, and
the financial services industry as a whole is the single largest
tax contributor to HM Revenue and Customs every year.”  Barclays said on Feb. 18 it paid 113 million pounds in
corporate tax in 2009. The lender reported net income of 9.39
billion pounds for the same year.  Tom Hoskin, a spokesman for  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , Britain’s biggest
supermarket chain, said UK Uncut’s claim that it doesn’t pay
enough tax is “just plain wrong. Tesco is among the highest
taxpayers in the U.K.” Bobby Leach, a spokesman for the world’s
biggest mobile-phone operator  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , said “we do
pay corporate tax; that is evident from our accounts.”  While the U.K. event focuses on London, US Uncut lists
events in 40 cities. In Jackson,  Mississippi , US Uncut founder
Carl Gibson said he’s organizing one involving fake money and a
child’s swimming pool. The Washington, D.C. group is promising a
“carnival of protest” with “full-on creative action.”  Gibson said US Uncut has borrowed ideas, a web template,
and tactics from UK Uncut, which started in October.  Corporate Tax  “The talking heads and politicians keep saying, ‘what can
we cut?’” he said. “Change the  tax code ; make sure the taxes
are paid. If these corporations paid their taxes, none of these
cuts would have to happen.”  U.S. corporate tax as a percentage of federal receipts
dropped to 6.6 percent in 2009 from 26.5 percent in 1950, while
the tax burden on individuals rose to 43.5 percent from 39.9
percent, according to a report by the December Joint Committee
on Taxation.  Bank of America spokesman  Jerry Dubrowski  said US Uncut
concerns are misplaced. “If you look over a 10-year period, we
have paid more taxes than any company in the U.S.,” he said
yesterday in a phone interview. “The last two years, we have
had losses that reduced our tax in the U.S. That’s
understandable, if you don’t have income, you don’t pay tax.”  A spokeswoman for Boots wouldn’t comment. Tania Foster- Brown, a spokeswoman for Arcadia Group, which owns Top Shop and
BHS outlets on Oxford Street, also declined to comment when
contacted by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in  London  at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  