-- 
Montagu to Keep Emitel at Least 4 Years After Record Polish Deal

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 
2011-03-25T15:09:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/montagu-to-keep-emitel-at-least-4-years-after-record-polish-deal.html
Montagu Private Equity LPP plans to
keep TP Emitel Sp. z o.o., the operator of Polish radio and
television towers that it bought yesterday, for four to seven
years before exiting its first investment in the country.  London-based Montagu’s agreement to buy Emitel from
 Telekomunikacja Polska SA (TPS) , Poland’s largest phone company, for
1.7 billion zloty ($600 million), is the largest acquisition by
a private equity fund in the country, Michal Chalaczkiewicz, who
runs Montagu’s business in the region, told Bloomberg News in a
phone interview from Warsaw today.  The fund, which opened an office in the Polish capital last
year, sees Poland as an “interesting” and “promising”
market, because of the size of the transactions and potential
for convergence with western  Europe , Chalaczkiewicz said.  “Poland is the only new market for Montagu in the last
three years,” he said.  Poland’s mergers and acquisition market quadrupled to $19
billion in 2010 from a year earlier, Bloomberg data show. This
year the value could rise, with seven potential buyers
shortlisted in the sale of the country’s second-largest mobile
phone company Polkomtel SA, valued at 3.7 billion euros ($5.2
billion) or more. The market has already reached $2.5 billion
this year after the acquisitions of Emitel, lender Polbank EFG
and retailer Zabka Polska SA.  Montagu says the Emitel acquisition fits with its strategy
of buying companies with strong management, which supply
essential goods or services.  “If we add Emitel’s market share of more than 80 percent
and the fact that it’s the only nationwide TV and radio towers
operator in  Poland  to the above criteria, we just couldn’t not
take part in this transaction,” Chalaczkiewicz said.  Digital Broadcasting  Montagu plans to help Emitel complete investments in
digital terrestrial broadcasting, which next year could cover
the entire population of Poland, Chalaczkiewicz said. It also
plans to expand usage of Emitel’s network by mobile phone
operators.  “We want to develop this business by also offering
construction of an LTE network,” he added.  Long Term Evolution, or LTE, is a fourth-generation, high-
speed wireless technology. Mobyland Sp. z o.o. and Centernet SA
have already started building a network in Poland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  