-- 
Canada Opposition Topples Harper, Triggers General Election

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-03-25T19:52:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/opposition-set-to-trigger-canadian-election-may-aim-at-tax-cut.html
Opposition lawmakers toppled
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s government, triggering
an election that may result in an alliance to reverse his
corporate tax cuts and overturn plans for more military spending.  Lawmakers from the opposition Liberals, New Democrats and
 Bloc Quebecois  passed a motion of  no confidence  in the
government today, which under Canadian parliamentary tradition
leads to the legislature’s dissolution. The motion was passed by
a vote of 156-145.  While  polls  show the governing Conservatives would likely
win the most seats in an election, the main opposition  Liberal
Party  may seek to form an alliance or formal coalition to govern
if Harper, 51, doesn’t win a majority, said Nelson Wiseman, a
political scientist at the  University of Toronto .  “Harper has been saying if the Conservatives don’t win a
majority, the next day the Liberals and the NDP will be
negotiating a coalition,” Wiseman said. “I don’t even think
they’ll wait for the next day. I think they will be negotiating
the night of the election.”  Such a scenario could bring together parties opposed to
planned corporate tax cuts and additional spending on military
jets, and who have called for rules to protect Canadian
companies from foreign takeovers and more federal spending on
education and health care. Both the Liberals and NDP backed the
government’s decision to reject Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) ’s $40 billion hostile takeover bid for Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc.  Dollar Declines  Canada ’s dollar fell 0.6 percent to 98.12 cents per  U.S.
dollar  at 2:32 p.m. in Toronto, from 97.52 cents yesterday. It
weakened as much as 0.8 percent, the biggest intraday drop since
March 16. Yields on Canada’s two-year bonds rose 0.3 basis
points to 1.74 percent. The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite
Index rose 38 points to 14,067.75 at 3:47 p.m. in Toronto.  Harper tomorrow will meet with the Governor General David Johnston, Queen Elizabeth II’s representative in Canada, to
request the dissolution of Parliament and set a date for the
vote. Under Canadian law, an election would take place on a
Monday following a campaign of at least five weeks, meaning a
vote could be held as early as May 2.  Opposition lawmakers are seeking to benefit from what they
say have been ethics violations by Harper’s administration,
including accusations by Liberal Leader Michael Ignatieff that
former Harper aide Bruce Carson was peddling influence with
companies seeking state contracts, as well as charges that
ministers have misled Parliament.  Cost of Plans  The motion of non-confidence today found that Harper’s
government held Parliament in “contempt” over its reluctance
to detail the cost of legislation. Opposition parties have
accused the government of misleading Canadians on the costs of
its initiatives, citing estimates by Parliamentary Budget
Officer Kevin Page.  A  poll  taken March 12-15 by Nanos Research showed the
Conservatives had the support of 39 percent of voters. Harper,
who has been prime minister since 2006, won 38 percent of the
vote in 2008 elections, which gave the Conservatives 143 seats
in the 308-member House of Commons. The telephone poll of 1,216
Canadians, which has a margin of error of 2.8 percentage points,
had the Liberals at 28 percent and the NDP at 20 percent.  Harper oversees the fastest growing economy with the lowest
deficits among Group of Seven nations. The currency has been the
strongest in the G-7 over the past two years.  Government bonds 
has returned 5.1 percent over the past year as of March 24,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data, compared
with a 2.8 percent average for the G-7. Canada’s benchmark
S&P/TSX Composite Index has risen 17 percent over the past 12
months, compared with a 12 percent gain for the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average .  Line of Attack  Harper has tried to turn the possibility of a coalition
among opposition parties into a line of attack against them. The
Conservatives have broadcast television spots recalling that the
Liberals and NDP in 2008 announced plans for a coalition that,
with the help of the Bloc Quebecois, would have ousted Harper.
Liberal leader Ignatieff, the ad says, backed that coalition and
was willing to put the country’s economy “in the hands of the
high-tax NDP.”  The opposition parties counter that Harper -- who avoided
defeat in 2008 by suspending Parliament -- was willing to
consider entering into a similar arrangement when he was
opposition leader.  Asked whether he would form a coalition with the  New
Democrats , Ignatieff told reporters today that such talk was a
“smokescreen” created by the government and the election will
be a choice between a Conservative and a Liberal government.  Not Ruled Out  New Democrat leader Jack Layton, asked the same question,
said he would work with any party to advance his policies.  Should the election yield another  minority  government, it
would be Canada’s fourth in a row. That recent history suggests
“every political party has to be open that after the election
we look at how we’re going to govern the country,” Joe Comartin,
an NDP lawmaker, told CTV television yesterday.  Harper’s campaign will focus on the economy and argue a
coalition could undermine the recovery.  Opposition parties will seek to convince voters the
government is untrustworthy and that Conservative spending and
tax policies are undermining the country’s ability to reduce the
deficit and finance new social spending.  Corporate Tax Cuts  At stake in the vote are reductions in corporate tax rates
that would cost the government more than C$6 billion ($6.14
billion) in revenue next year, according to estimates by the
Canadian Manufacturers and Exporters, an Ottawa-based lobby
group that supports the measures.  The Liberals and NDP say the cuts are unaffordable and have
pledged to reverse them if elected. The opposition has also said
they would cancel the government’s plans to acquire 65 of
Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint
Strike Fighter jets, which the parliamentary budget officer has
said would cost $29 billion.  All parties back a return to a balanced budget, after
Harper’s government ran record deficits to stem the effects of
the global recession.  “I don’t see either major party substantially changing
fiscal policy.” Ed Devlin, a London-based money manager at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said in an interview. Bond
investors may have a “very marginal” preference for the
Conservatives, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 