-- 
Oracle Rises as Forecast, Results Top Estimates on Cloud Computing Demand

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-03-25T20:49:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/oracle-rises-as-forecast-results-top-estimates-on-cloud-demand.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  rose in Nasdaq trading
after forecasting fourth-quarter profit that topped analysts’
predictions, a sign of growing demand for database software as
well as hardware added by the Sun Microsystems Inc. purchase.  Profit excluding acquisition costs and some other expenses
will be 69 cents to 73 cents this quarter, surpassing the 66-
cent average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, Oracle
said on a conference call yesterday. Earnings on that basis were
54 cents a share in the period that ended Feb. 28, also
exceeding analysts’ projections.  Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  is phasing out lower-
margin products from Sun, acquired last year, to wring more
profit from high-end hardware. A boom in demand for Oracle’s
databases used in cloud computing -- the delivery of software
and storage over the Internet -- also contributed to a 29
percent gain in new license sales, a predictor of revenue.  “The future looks bright,” said Patrick Walravens, an
analyst at JMP Securities in San Francisco, who rates Oracle
“market outperform.” Ellison “has focused on making the Sun
business smaller and much more profitable.”  Sales climbed 37 percent to $8.76 billion last quarter. Net
income was $2.12 billion, or 41 cents a share, compared with
$1.19 billion, or 23 cents a share, a year earlier.  Oracle rose 50 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $32.64 at 4 p.m.
New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Oracle also raised its
quarterly dividend 20 percent yesterday, to 6 cents a share.  Room for Margins  When Oracle, the largest supplier of  database software ,
purchased Sun, analysts fretted that its margins would be
squeezed by the addition of less profitable hardware. Oracle Co-
President Safra Catz took pains to allay that concern on the
conference call, saying gross margin in the hardware unit rose
to 55 percent last quarter from 53 percent the previous quarter.
It will continue to rise in coming periods, she predicted.  “It’s becoming clear that we’re going to be able to
ultimately bring the margins very close, if not even more than
they ever were when we were just a software business,” Catz
said. “We still think there’s actually quite a bit of room.”  In the quarter that ended November 2009, the last period
before the close of the Sun acquisition, Oracle had gross
margins of 81 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  The company expects to exceed its goal of boosting
operating profit by $1.5 billion in the fiscal year after the
deal closed, Catz said yesterday.  Avoiding ‘Missteps’  Oracle reports sales that include deferred revenue from
acquired companies and don’t conform to generally accepted
accounting principles. On that basis, sales in the fourth
quarter will increase 9 percent to 13 percent from a year
earlier, Catz said.  New software license sales rose to $2.21 billion last
quarter, surpassing the $1.98 billion estimate of Jason Maynard,
an analyst at Wells Fargo Securities in  San Francisco , who rates
Oracle “outperform.”  “Software license revenue was much, much better than
people expected,” Maynard said.  New software license sales will climb 9 percent to 19
percent this quarter, Catz forecast.  Ellison is benefiting from the Sun deal by focusing on
profitable, high-end hardware that runs Oracle software, Maynard
said. Ellison missed the conference call yesterday because he
was serving at jury duty, the company said.  “They’ve done a remarkably good job at executing and not
having any major missteps,” he said. “What’s made them loved
among investors is they don’t make mistakes. A lot of other
companies get easily distracted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  