-- 
Los Angeles Mayor Says Union Bargaining Worked to Save City $400 Million

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-03-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/los-angeles-mayor-says-union-bargaining-worked-to-save-city-400-million.html
Los Angeles  Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa agreed with city unions on ways to save $400
million over the next four years to help close budget deficits,
calling it a demonstration that collective bargaining can work.  The plan, which must still be ratified, calls for union
workers to pay as much as 4 percent of their salary toward
retirement health-care coverage, Villaraigosa said at a press
briefing yesterday. It would freeze pay increases.  “Today Los Angeles has a message for municipal governments
all across America,” Villaraigosa said. “Collective bargaining
works.”  The agreement caps late-night negotiating sessions between
leaders of the nation’s second-largest metropolis by population
and its unions. Los Angeles faces a $350 million budget gap for
the year that begins July 1. The City Council voted March 23 to
close most of a $46.8 million projected deficit for the current
fiscal year, cutting costs and using unspent cash, City
Administrative Officer Miguel Santana said in an interview.  The mayor’s deal with labor leaders would let the city
suspend mandatory unpaid days off for union workers and restore
city services that had been limited by those furloughs,
Villaraigosa said. It will also let the city avoid cutting
another 600 positions from its payroll.  Villaraigosa, a former labor organizer, said he hopes to
reach similar agreements with other municipal unions.  “This is a watershed,” the mayor said. “This is pension
reform.”  Deal for 60%  The agreement involves 19,000 workers, about 60 percent of
the workforce, Cheryl Parisi, who leads the  Coalition of Los
Angeles City Unions , said at the briefing. They include
janitors, trash collectors and secretaries who will for the
first time be contributing toward their retirement health-care
costs.  Those contributions, coupled with additional pension
payments, mean employees will be putting aside 11 percent of
their salaries for retirement benefits starting July 1, up from
6 percent today, the mayor said.  “We don’t look at these as givebacks,” Parisi said. “We
look at it as a way for workers to contribute to the stability
of their pension plans.”  David Bunjac, a city worker and representative of the
 Laborers’ International Union of North America , said negotiators
worked out the deal during months of talks that sometimes went
until 3 a.m.  Los Angeles may need to close deficits of as much as $1.86
billion through 2015. The city has taken steps to reduce costs
by eliminating 4,000 jobs and creating another tier of pension
benefits for new police officers and firefighters, Santana said
on March 17.  The following day he released a report outlining steps that
could be taken to reduce future budget shortfalls, including
outsourcing management of the city’s convention center and zoo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  