-- 
Buffett Says Social-Networking Sites Overpriced Ahead of Public Offerings

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r ,   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-03-25T16:12:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/most-networking-site-companies-will-be-overpriced-buffett-says.html
Warren Buffett , the billionaire
stock picker and takeover specialist, said investors should be
wary of valuations for social networking websites as some of the
industry’s biggest startups prepare for initial share sales.  “Most of them will be overpriced,” Buffett, chairman and
chief executive officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said today
in New Delhi. ”It’s extremely difficult to value social-
networking-site companies,” he said, without specifying
companies. “Some will be huge winners, which will make up for
the rest.”  Facebook Inc., owner of the most popular social-networking
site, drew investors including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in
private stock sales that valued the company at $50 billion as of
January. Groupon Inc., the Chicago-based daily deals site, has
held talks about an initial public offering that would value it
at as much as $25 billion, two people familiar with the matter
said earlier this month.  Buffett, 80, has shunned technology investments in favor of
industrial, financial and consumer-goods holdings in his four
decades at Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire.  Twitter Inc. , the microblogging site, said in December
that it was valued at $3.7 billion after receiving a $200
million round of funding led by venture capital firm Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers. The company’s value may now be closer
to $5 billion, according to SharesPost Inc., a private-share
exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Bangalore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at   aghosh@bloomberg.net 
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ; 