-- 
Motorola Mobility Revival Means Weighing Google Alternatives

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-03-25T20:20:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/motorola-mobility-s-atrix-led-revival-means-weighing-alternative-to-google.html
Two days before Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. planned to ship its Droid phone, Chief Executive
Officer Sanjay Jha got a call from his lieutenant, Iqbal Arshad.
There was a glitch in the software. Arshad wanted to rewrite the
code before the phone went out the door.  “In big companies, you tend not to make those kind of
changes,” said Arshad. “They’re kind of scary.”  Not at this Motorola. Engineers ordered pizzas at the
Libertyville,  Illinois , headquarters and the lactose-intolerant
Arshad nibbled on crusts. They worked through the night to fix
the glitch, which involved a faulty battery reading, finishing
at 4 a.m. The Droid shipped on time and became a top seller.  If this push for perfection sounds a bit like  Steve Jobs ’s
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) , there’s a reason. Jha, 48, is determined to show
that Motorola, a company that lost more than $4 billion in the
last three years, can compete in a changing world of computing.  Step one is the Atrix 4G. Jha says mobile phones, rather
than complementing a laptop or desktop, will displace them as
the primary computing device for most people. He says the phone
will trump tablets too, whether Apple’s iPad or his own Xoom.  “This is the computer that I carry with me at all times,”
he said in an interview, brandishing an Atrix. “If there is one
bet we’re making going forward, that’s the core of it.”  The Atrix, which went on sale in the U.S. in February, runs
on Google’s Android software and plugs into what Motorola calls
a lapdock, a keyboard-screen console similar to a thin laptop.
The phone becomes the brains for a computer.  “With this, everything is in my pocket,” said Jha. “All
the data, all the processing.”  Mobile Computing  The Atrix, sold with the dock for $499 from AT&T Inc.,
became the top-selling mobile phone at  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  earlier
this month. It’s the first of a set of products that blur the
lines between phones and computers. There may be screens that
link to phones over Bluetooth wireless technology or keyboards
projected onto a table with light.  The company is pushing similar innovations for phones aimed
at business, social networking and entertainment, and at
different markets. As part of its effort in China, Motorola is
considering operating systems in addition to Android, including
software from Baidu Inc., Google’s Chinese rival, Jha said.  Skeptics abound. Rod Hall, an analyst with JPMorgan Chase &
Co., says it will be difficult for Motorola to distinguish
itself from other companies that use Android, such as  HTC Corp. (2498) 
and Samsung Electronics Co., much less Apple.  Falling Share  “Atrix is a really cool idea, but I’m not sure others
won’t be able to replicate Motorola’s moves,” said the San
Francisco-based Hall, who rates the stock “underweight.”
“Android is a commodity platform and to compete you need scale.
They clearly don’t have it now.”  Motorola, after pioneering mobile-phone technology in the
1980s and 1990s, fell to 2.4 percent of the market last year,
from 21.9 percent in the second quarter of 2006, according to
researcher Gartner Inc. Motorola Mobility, made up of the
mobile-phone and set-top box businesses, was spun off from what
is now Motorola Solutions Inc. after billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  pressed for a split to improve its performance.  Motorola Mobility’s stock fell 24 cents to $25.80 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange trading. The stock has dropped 22
percent since the January spinoff.  “Motorola is now a better-tuned, better-oiled machine that
produces good products consistently,” said Nirav Parikh, senior
vice president at Los Angeles-based TCW Group Inc., which
manages about $115 billion and is the ninth-largest investor.  Veterans and Outsiders  Jha’s lieutenants are a mix of veterans and outsiders. He
hired Bill Ogle, who trained at  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , to head
marketing, and Fei Liu, who ran an equipment company in China,
to lead Motorola’s effort there. John Bucher, a former Marine,
was promoted to oversee strategy, and Christy Wyatt, who joined
from Apple before Jha took over, manages software.  In Ogle’s office, mounted above shelves lined with old
Motorola phones, is a flat-screen Sharp television tuned to a
live Twitter feed of posts about the company. He uses it to see
how customers react to products like the Xoom in real time.  Ogle, 43, and his team just finished a two-month study of
how people in the U.S. and China use phones and how the devices
could do more. He pulled out a piece of paper with “points of
pain,” a P&G expression for things people find frustrating.
There were 38, in three categories: social connections,
entertainment and productivity, both professional and personal.  “Imagine if your phone is your alarm, and when it goes
off, it’ll shine a light up onto your ceiling with the time and
the first two things you need to do,” he said. “How about a
Bluetooth earpiece that monitors your  blood pressure ?”  ‘Random Acts’  Ogle wouldn’t say which, if any of these ideas, Motorola is
working on. The point, he said, is that his marketing team
passes these kinds of insights to Motorola engineers, to help
lift the success rate of new phones.  “We’re trying to move from random acts of brilliance to
more consistent acts of brilliance,” he said.  Wyatt, 39, helps turn ideas into products. Her group
developed Motoblur software, which combines e-mails and posts
from social networks such as Facebook Inc. into one feed, and is
working on making it easier to transfer content from phones to
tablets to set-top boxes. Her latest push is to make Motorola
phones more suited for corporate customers, taking aim at
BlackBerry maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  in a market where an
Android-powered device has yet to score a hit.  “In terms of investment, that’s the biggest,” said Wyatt.
“There is a ton of opportunity in enterprise.”  The Droid Pro, introduced last year, is tailored for the
market, with a tactile keypad similar to RIM’s BlackBerry.
Motorola acquired Three Laws Mobility last year to bring more
security to Android phones, by allowing companies to locate lost
devices or wipe them clean of data.  Jha’s Role  The person tying these efforts together is Jha, said Chief
Financial Officer Marc Rothman.  Brought in from chipmaker  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  in 2008, Jha
shuttles between Libertyville, Sunnyvale,  California , and his
home in  San Diego , where Qualcomm is based. He can hold meetings
until 11:30 p.m. and regularly sleeps five hours a night.  “His fingerprint is on everything we do,” said Rothman,
who helped convince Motorola’s board to hire Jha.  With a doctorate in electrical engineering and 14 years at
Qualcomm, Jha prods engineers about chip design or the milliamps
of battery drain when a phone is on standby, said  Juergen Stark ,
chief operating officer of the mobile devices unit.  “The level of product involvement went up significantly
when Sanjay joined,” he said.  Challenge to Google  Jha’s challenge is to distinguish Motorola from companies
such as Samsung and HTC that also use Android, available for
free from Google. Yet Motorola’s strategy risks alienating
Google. As Jha strives to make devices stand out, they
variations threaten to splinter the platform, said Jonathan Yarmis, an independent technology consultant.  Programs like games and productivity apps are created by
independent developers. While they can create one that will run
across Apple devices, they face a rising number of Android
phones and tablets, which complicates the work and cuts profit.  Motorola may begin making phones with other operating
systems, in addition to Android. The company is considering
Baidu and software called Wophone from  China  Unicom ( Hong Kong )
Ltd., said Jha.  “We are in conversations, we are absolutely talking to
Baidu,” he said.  Baidu v. Google  Baidu and Google have clashed in China, where the Beijing-
based company holds more than 75 percent of the online search ad
market, according to researcher Analysys International.  Motorola may also develop its own platform at some point,
though only with broad scale and developer support, said Jha.  “I would always consider it,” he said. “But I don’t
think it’s the pragmatic thing to do right now.”  Jha said Motorola is very focused on Android for now and
the partnership with Google is strong. Motorola employees have
badges to Google offices and work there regularly on Android.
Either Jha or Wyatt makes a weekly trip to the Googleplex in
 Mountain View , California to stay on top of development.  John Lagerling, who heads Android partnerships at Google,
also said the relationship is strong.  With the progress Jha and his team have made, Motorola is
expected to return to profitability this year, as revenue climbs
16 percent to $13.3 billion, according to a Bloomberg analyst
survey. Still, Jha said the slump is never far from mind as
Motorola tries to prove it can once again compete with the
industry’s strongest players.  “We’ve all lived through what I’d call a near-fatal
experience,” said Jha.  Now “we have the sense we can do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  