-- 
House Republicans Accuse Democrats of Foot-Dragging on Spending-Cut Talk

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-03-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/house-republicans-accuse-democrats-of-foot-dragging-on-reducing-spending.html
U.S. House Republicans are accusing
Democrats of foot-dragging in negotiations over spending cuts
and say they will be responsible for a government shutdown if
talks fail.  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican,
said yesterday that the two sides were far apart on a spending
plan to take effect April 8, the expiration date of the latest
short-term measure funding the government. Congress has passed a
series of stopgap measures, known as continuing resolutions, to
keep the government operating while Democrats and Republicans
try to agree on a long-term budget for the 2011 fiscal year.  Senate Democrats and President Barack Obama’s
administration have refused “to offer any sort of serious plan
for how to cut spending,” Cantor said in a statement. A
government shutdown “would be in their hands” if the talks
fail to produce an agreement, he said.  Cantor called “completely far-fetched” comments earlier
in the day by Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York , the chamber’s
third-ranking Democrat, that lawmakers were making progress
toward a plan.  Schumer said on  MSNBC ’s “Morning Joe” that Senate
Democrats had “moved up” from their proposed $10 billion in
cuts and House Republicans were “moving down” from their plan
to cut $61 billion by Sept. 30, when the 2011 fiscal year ends.
The Democratic-controlled Senate defeated both the Republican
spending measure passed by the House and a Democratic
alternative.  Boehner Statement  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said in a
statement that “at no point” since the House passed its plan
last month have Democrats “put forward a credible, long-term
plan to resolve their budget mess.”  Boehner had to rely on Democratic support to help pass the
current three-week spending measure because 54 members of his
Republican majority opposed it. Many of the 87 freshman
Republicans were backed by the anti-spending Tea Party and came
to  Washington  pledging to seek deep spending cuts.  Schumer said in a statement yesterday that Boehner “knows
that when it comes to avoiding a shutdown, his problem is with
the Tea Party, not Democrats.”  “We hope House Republicans will finally stand up to the
Tea Party and resume the negotiations that had seemed so full of
promise,” Schumer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  