-- 
Patek Philippe Chief Says China Overinvestment Is a Mistake

-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 
2011-03-25T01:06:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/patek-philippe-s-stern-says-overinvesting-in-china-is-a-mistake.html
Patek Philippe SA  Chairman Thierry Stern said Swiss watchmakers that concentrate investment in
 China  are making a mistake as the market will eventually slow.  “I’m not putting all my eggs in the same basket,” Stern
said in an interview at the world’s largest watch fair in  Basel ,
 Switzerland , yesterday. “It’s a big mistake I think that a few
brands are doing by going only in China. They focus everything
on China and it’s dangerous.”  The Chinese buy about half of the watches sold worldwide
either in their home market, in Hong Kong or while traveling
abroad, Jon Cox, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets, estimates.
Exports of Swiss watches to China rose 57 percent to 1.1 billion
Swiss francs ($1.2 billion) in 2010 and shipments to  Hong Kong ,
where many rich Chinese buy watches to avoid the country’s
luxury taxes, rose 47 percent to 3.19 billion francs, according
to the  Federation of Swiss Watchmaking .  “For three or five years it should be fine” in China,
said the chairman of Geneva-based Patek Philippe. “After that,
it’s hard to know, but one day, of course, there will be
something happening. This is why you have to really watch out.”  Sales of luxury items in China may more than double in five
years to 180 billion yuan ($27 billion) in 2015, McKinsey & Co.
wrote in a March 8 report. The nation may surpass  Japan  to
become the biggest luxury-goods market by then, China’s Commerce
Minister  Chen Deming  said March 7.  Advertising Ban  Beijing’s communist government this week moved to ban
outdoor advertising that promotes lavish lifestyles in the
Chinese capital, as it faces a widening gap between rich and
poor in a nation where 150 million people live on less than $1 a
day.  Of the 45,000 pieces Patek can produce annually, the
watchmaker sold as many as 100 in China last year, Stern said.
Patek Philippe has been selling timepieces to the Chinese for
years, relying on them to travel to markets such as  Europe , he
said. The watchmaker now has two stores in China, mostly to be
able to service and repair watches, he said.  Stern didn’t name any brands that he considers are
overinvesting in China.  “I try to be very equal on every market, because if
something happens, you should also survive,” he said.  Patek Philippe  didn’t sell a “high” amount of watches in
Japan before the earthquake there, and the company can shift the
inventory set for that market to other regions, Stern said.  Buying watches isn’t a “major concern” for the Japanese,
he said. “They have now to take care of all the problems of
their people. It’s going to last quite a long time, I believe,
which is sad for Japan, because they just started to increase,
it was just starting to get better.”  Separately, sapphire glass for watches is becoming harder
to find and may hinder the industry in coming years, Stern said.  “Every watch needs sapphire glass and today the raw
material is missing,” he said. “We will have to find maybe new
ideas or a new supplier, if they exist. This will become a
problem in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 