-- 
Philips Electronics Seeks Small Home-Healthcare Purchases, Unit Chief Says

-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-03-25T13:42:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/philips-home-healthcare-seeking-adjacent-purchases.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV may
make small acquisitions in home-based healthcare product
manufacturing and will refrain from “landscape-changing”
deals, said Stephen Rusckowski, the head of Philips Healthcare.  The Dutch company, which built the division through more
than $6 billion in purchases in the last decade, has “plenty of
opportunity” to grow with market demand and international
expansion, Rusckowski said today in an interview at the
company’s Amsterdam headquarters.  “There will not be significantly landscape-changing
acquisitions at home healthcare, however we never rule out some
adjacent moves,” the executive said.  The division is the largest maker of patient monitoring
systems and is counting on expansion as aging populations boost
medical costs and force governments to move care into homes.
“If you look at healthcare systems in any country, 60 percent
is happening outside the hospital,” Rusckowski said.  Philips, the world’s biggest lighting company, predicts
that the market for medical products that can be used in
residential settings will grow 7 percent to 9 percent annually.
Philips, which competes with  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  General Electric Co (GE) 
in home healthcare, is currently offering products in a slice of
that market worth about 5 billion euros ($7.1 billion) a year,
Rusckowski said.  Home healthcare is one of the targeted growth areas for
Philips, which has a goal to increase revenue 2 percentage
points faster than global economic growth in the coming years.
The division represents about 15 percent of Philips’s total
healthcare revenue, which amounted to 8.6 billion euros in 2010.  In home healthcare, the company completed the purchase of
Respironics Inc, which makes masks and ventilators for the
treatment of respiratory disorders, for 3.6 billion euros in
2008, and Lifeline Systems Inc, a manufacturer of emergency
response systems, for $750 million in 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  