-- 
Philippines Faces Inflation Risk on Commodities, Tetangco Says

-- B y   S u s a n   L i   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 
2011-03-25T03:49:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/philippines-faces-inflation-risk-on-commodities-tetangco-says.html
Philippine central bank Governor
Amando Tetangco comments on the outlook for inflation following
the Southeast Asian nation’s decision yesterday to increase the
benchmark borrowing cost for the first time since August 2008.  Tetangco spoke in a Bloomberg Television interview.  On managing inflation:  “The observation that we’re behind the curve -- we don’t
agree with that because up until the last meeting of the
Monetary Board in February, the inflation forecast still showed
that future inflation will be within the target range. So, there
was no motivation to move until that time.  “Now conditions have changed, and our own assessment is
that policy rates will have to be raised because of a number of
reasons. One, inflation outcome is higher. Two, inflation
expectations have risen further. Three, the recent baseline
forecasts are pointing to a possible breach of inflation target
in 2011 and the balance of risks has tilted further to the
upside. Those are the motivations for the rate hike yesterday.  “It’s possible there would be further increases in
inflation this month and the rising trend can possibly be seen
in the coming months. But our expectation is that this should
taper off. In fact for 2012, our forecast is closer to the lower
end of the target range of 3 percent to 5 percent.”  On the possibility of another rate increase in May:  “We have to monitor developments because the action that
was taken yesterday was really pre-emptive. At this point in
time, we think there’s still risk, particularly in the form of
elevated commodity prices. Food and oil, as you probably know,
have a significant share in the  Philippines ’s inflation basket.
So we’ll have to remain attentive to this price development and
pay particular attention to the potential impact on inflation
and its possible second-round effects.”  On peso:  “We’ve always taken a pragmatic approach on dealing with
foreign exchange inflows that can impact the  exchange rate  and
we will continue to use a mix of policy tools.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at   cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Evans at 
 revans6@bloomberg.net  