-- 
Philippines’ Purisima Comments on Growth, Inflation, Rate

-- B y   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 
2011-03-25T03:04:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/philippines-purisima-comments-on-growth-inflation-rate.html
Philippine Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima comments on economic growth, inflation and  interest
rates  in a Bloomberg Television interview.  The central bank increased its key interest rate yesterday
for the first time since August 2008.  On economic growth:  “We believe that we’re still on target. Last year we grew
7.3 percent, which is the highest in over 30 years in the
 Philippines , driven by strong remittances from our overseas
workers, strong business process outsourcing and a strong
electronics industry. We believe the outlook for these sectors
is still the same.”  On central bank’s rate increase:  “The interest rate in the Philippines has been at historic
lows. That’s why we think the 25 basis point increase in
interest rate is just right to make sure that we don’t fall
behind the curve of managing inflation.”  On remittances, in light of recent global events:  “Our biggest source is the U.S., over 50 percent. In fact
during the global economic crisis, the expectation was it’s
going to drop. The reality is it actually increased. It has
proven to be very resilient. From  Japan , we don’t get a lot of
remittances in proportion to the total. Overall, remittances
will continue to increase this year.”  On inflation:  The inflation forecast for this year is “in the higher end
of our target range of 3 percent to 5 percent, that’s why we
made this move. It’s important to give the market a message that
the monetary authority is dealing with inflation.  ‘‘The continuing strength of the peso, behind the fact that
we’re in a balance of payments surplus situation, that will
mitigate the situation of rising import costs as well as  oil
prices . Nevertheless we’re monitoring this carefully.”  On borrowings:  “We’re at the tail end already of our external borrowing
program. If ever we go to the market in the future it is more
for liability management purposes. Our goal is to continue to
lengthen our maturities and at same time balance out the
maturities over the remaining years so there is no bunching up.
For funding purposes, we have more or less accomplished our
funding needs.”  On infrastructure projects:  “We plan to bid out 10 major projects this year, and next
year about 17 are in the pipeline. We expect these to have a
material effect on the latter half of the year and especially
next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at   cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  