-- 
Philippines Seeks Clearer Picture of Peso Forward Trades

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-03-25T04:19:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/philippines-seeks-clearer-picture-of-peso-forward-trades-1-.html
The Philippine  central bank  plans
to review the reporting requirements for non-deliverable
forwards as it seeks to better monitor trading of the contracts,
Governor Amando Tetangco said.  “This, we hope, would help us get a clearer picture of the
demand and supply of dollars from the banks, both for their own
accounts and for those of the corporate sector,” Tetangco said
in an e-mailed reply to questions late yesterday. “These will be
valuable inputs for us to appreciate the level of potential
volatility in liquidity,” he said.  Three-month non-deliverable forwards advanced 0.4 percent
to 43.31 per dollar as of 11:38 a.m. in  Manila , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts reflect bets the peso
will gain 0.1 percent in three months.  The peso strengthened 0.2 percent to 43.34 per dollar today.
It touched 43.325 earlier, the strongest level in two weeks,
after Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas raised  interest rates 
yesterday. The central bank lifted the benchmark overnight
borrowing rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 4.25
percent, the first increase since August 2008, to contain
inflation that accelerated to a nine-month high in February.  The central bank is concerned that inflows from the
forwards market are making foreign-exchange intervention more
difficult for policy makers, said Marcelo Ayes, a senior vice
president at Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. in Manila.  Reserves Rise  Philippine foreign-currency reserves rose to a record $64
billion last month, a sign policy makers may have been buying
dollars to curb appreciation in the peso.  The growing volume in the NDF market “is creating
constraints on monetary policy,” Ayes said. “The forwards market
influences the spot rate especially if there’s a big difference
in the forward and spot rates.”  Banks are also discussing whether they can set “parameters
for trading” in the forwards market, especially for overseas
participants, Tetangco said. The central bank “always welcomes
market-determined solutions to current market concerns that have
far-reaching macro implications, such as excessive volatility in
the  exchange rate ,” he said.  Members of the Bankers Association of the  Philippines  are
voluntarily limiting currency-forward transactions to help the
central bank curb exchange-rate volatility, said Aurelio Montinola, the association’s president, in an interview on March
23.  ‘Voluntary Restraint’  “There’s voluntary restraint on things like non-deliverable
forwards,” said Montinola, who’s also the president of Bank of
the Philippine Islands, the nation’s largest bank by market
value. Lenders are imposing curbs to prevent excessive
volatility, he said.  Philippine commercial banks are allowed to hold an
overbought foreign-exchange limit of $50 million or 20 percent
of their unimpaired capital, whichever is smaller, according to
central
 bank regulations . The so-called overbought limit is the ceiling
on the amount of foreign exchange lenders can hold in excess of
their foreign-currency liabilities.  Forwards are agreements to buy and sell assets for delivery
at a specified time in future. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in U.S. dollars.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 