-- 
Polish Lawmakers Vote to Cut Transfers to Pension Funds

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-03-25T16:57:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/polish-lawmakers-to-vote-on-cutting-state-transfers-to-pensions.html
Polish lawmakers voted to cut state
transfers to private pension funds as the government reduces
borrowing and trims the fiscal deficit.  Parliament approved changes that allow the government to
reduce its borrowing by 200 billion zloty ($70 billion) before
the end of the decade by a vote of 237 to 154. The coalition
government wants the new legislation to take effect May 1 as it
has pledged to more than halve its deficit to 3 percent of gross
domestic product next year.  “The plan is a solution to our deficit and debt problems
in the coming years, but it will also slow debt growth over the
long term,” Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s chief adviser Michal Boni said yesterday in parliament, estimating the transfers’ cut
will reduce  Poland ’s debt by 750 billion zloty by 2060.  The largest of the European Union’s eastern economies needs
to cut the shortfall from an estimated 8 percent of GDP last
year. The  bloc  may punish Poland for an excessive deficit by
reducing its eligibility for the EU funding that helped generate
growth in 2009, making it the only member of the bloc to avoid a
recession that year.  The plan to cut transfers to private pension funds by more
than two-thirds to 2.3 percent of employees’ salaries in a
system enrolling millions of Poles may also help keep public
debt from breaching the legal limit of 55 percent of economic
output, which would trigger mandatory austerity measures.  Public Discord  A survey by the Warsaw-based Public Opinion Research Center
on Feb. 4 showed 49 percent of Poles were against the pension
proposals, while 18 percent were in favor and 33 percent had no
opinion. No margin of error was given.  While Tusk wanted the law to take effect on April 1,
disputes with labor unions and employers, as well as within the
government, led to a delay. According to the  Finance Ministry ,
each month of delay implies spending will increase by 0.07
percent of GDP, while maintaining the pension system unchanged
means an outflow of 2 billion zlotys every month.  Poland’s public debt was 701.9 billion zloty at the end of
2010, up 11.1 percent from a year earlier. About 200 billion
zloty resulted from transfers to private pension funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  