-- 
Pork Rally Fails to Spur Expansion at U.S. Hog Farms After Feed Costs Gain

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-03-25T15:12:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/pork-rally-fails-to-spur-u-s-hog-farm-expansion-as-feed-costs-curb-profit.html
U.S. hog producers may be reducing
breeding herds because of high feed costs, signaling a
continuing rally in pork prices that are already forecast to
climb more than any other food this year.  About 5.745 million sows were being held back for breeding
as of March 1, down 0.3 percent from 5.76 million a year
earlier, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 10 analysts.
That would be 0.6 percent less than three months earlier. The
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  will  release  its quarterly
estimate of hog inventories at 3 p.m. today in  Washington .  Rising demand for U.S. pork helped propel wholesale prices
to a six-month high this week. Even with hog futures up 25
percent in the past year, producers are reluctant to expand
because costs have almost doubled for corn, the main ingredient
in livestock feed. The government today  forecast  that shoppers
may pay as much as 7 percent more for pork this year. That’s up
from last month’s projection for a 5.5 percent to 6.5 percent
jump.  “The livestock industry is very nervous about feed costs,
and until we get a feel for what kind of corn crop we’re going
to produce, we’re not likely to see much change in the size of
the sow herd,” said  Ron Plain , a livestock economist at the
 University of Missouri  in Columbia. “We’re going to have high
meat prices because we’ve got a rather small herd out there
today, so meat production is going to be down this year.”  Tight Supplies  Producers without hedging strategies lost about $7.20 for
each animal sold in the three months through February, said  Rich Nelson , the director of research at Allendale Inc. in McHenry,
 Illinois . That compares with losses of $6.42 in the year-earlier
period and net profit of 83 cents a head in the three months
through November, Nelson said.  In February, producer profit was 90 cents per hog, as
rising export demand encouraged slaughterhouses to pay more for
animals, Nelson said. Spot-market prices rose to 81.51 cents a
pound on March 24, up 22 percent from a year earlier. Farmers
normally need to see profits for about six months straight
before starting expansion, he said.  Before today, corn prices surged 92 percent from a year
earlier and reached a 31-month high on Feb. 22.  Heavier Hogs  U.S. pork output may be up about half a percent because of
heavier animals, Plain said. The average hog carcass on March 23
weighed about 1.6 percent more than a year earlier, and reached
211.59 pounds (96 kilograms) on Jan. 7, the heaviest since at
least 2002, USDA data show. A growing U.S. population and higher
export demand will keep per-capita supplies of the meat tight,
boosting pork prices, Plain said.  Retail prices for pork chops averaged $3.48 a pound in of
February, up 8.5 percent from a year earlier and the highest
since at least April 2007, according to government data.
Boneless ham was 10 percent more expensive, and sliced bacon
jumped 20 percent.  Fast-food chain Jack in the Box Inc. saw “significant
increases” in pork costs in the first quarter, Chief Financial
Officer Jerry Rebel said last month.  Cracker Barrel Old Country
Store Inc. (CBRL) , the operator of 599 restaurants in 42 states,
expects “double-digit increases” this year, according to Chief
Financial Officer Lawrence E. Hyatt.  Futures Rise  Hog futures for June settlement rose 1.525 cents, or 1.5
percent, to $1.027 a pound at 9:50 a.m. on the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange. Earlier, the most-active contract reached
$1.029, the highest since at least April 1986.  Strong overseas demand has driven the rally, analysts said.
U.S. exporters shipped 368.9 million pounds of pork in January,
up 17 percent from a year earlier, according to the most-recent
USDA data.  Japan , the biggest buyer of U.S. pork in 2010, will
have to import more of the meat after a deadly earthquake and
tsunami this month, according to the  U.S. Meat Export
Federation .  “I’m looking for export business to probably be rather
robust over the next couple of months,” said Lawrence Kane, a
market adviser at Stewart-Peterson Group in  Yates City ,
Illinois. “There is unfortunately some real potential there,
due to the food-quality concerns that the Japanese people are
probably experiencing.”  Higher Feed Costs  Higher prices, driven by exports, aren’t enough to persuade
producers to expand because input costs are too high, said John Nalivka, the president of livestock- and meat-industry
consultant Sterling Marketing Inc. in  Vale ,  Oregon . Hogs placed
in feed pens now will consume about $165 of grain before they
are slaughtered, up from about $123 a year ago, he said.  “That makes things kind of treacherous,” Nalivka said.
“It would take just a little bit longer before we start to
encourage anything that kind of looks like expansion.”  If the breeding herd doesn’t expand, pork processors will
be paying higher prices for fattened animals and the cost of the
meat to consumers will climb faster than expected, according to
Allendale’s Nelson.  “We almost need expansion to meet this supply problem,”
Nelson said. “We’re going to have a deficit in meat coming by
the end of this year. That will be pushed into the wholesale and
the retail end pretty quickly.”  The overall hog herd totaled 63.52 million head as of March
1, according to the Bloomberg survey, little changed from a year
earlier. The inventory of swine to be sold for slaughter, so-
called market hogs, probably was little changed at 57.76
million, analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 