-- 
Socrates Rejects Need for Portugal Aid as Talks on Early Elections Begin

-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-03-25T19:26:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/portuguese-president-hosts-crisis-talks-on-calling-elections-amid-impasse.html
Portugal doesn’t need a rescue,
Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  said in Brussels, seeking to
counter speculation of a bailout as talks began in Lisbon to end
the political limbo after lawmakers rejected his budget cuts.  Portuguese bonds fell, driving their yield to a euro-era
record as investors anticipated that the country would follow
Ireland and  Greece  in seeking a financial lifeline. A bailout
may total as much as 70 billion euros ($99 billion), two
European officials with direct knowledge of the matter said
yesterday.  “If Portugal were to fall, that would mean that other
countries and other situations would be exposed with more
risk,” supporting “the domino theory, in which one goes after
the other,” Socrates said today after a European Union summit
in Brussels, where he arrived one day after offering to resign
after the parliamentary defeat. “This has to stop” and
“ Portugal  doesn’t need” a bailout, he said.  President Anibal Cavaco Silva held talks at the
presidential palace today with each of the six parties
represented in Parliament on whether to call early elections.
All five opposition parties favored elections, and Economy
Minister Jose Antonio Vieira da Silva said that Socrates’s
Socialist Party is "open" to early elections and that it would
make sense to hold them "as soon as possible."  ‘Consult the People’  “The president should accept the resignation, after
listening to the Council of State, and call early elections,”
Green Party parliamentarian Jose Luis Ferreira told reporters
after the meeting. Cavaco Silva didn’t comment, he said.  “The best solution is to consult the Portuguese, let the
people have their say, through elections,” Jeronimo de Sousa,
head of the Communist Party, said after meeting Cavaco Silva.  The Socialists have governed since 2005 and have lacked a
parliamentary majority since 2009. The legislature’s term was
due to end in 2013.  “We are confident that a caretaker government will be able
to ensure all public business and responsibilities,”  Pedro Passos Coelho , leader of the Social Democrats, the largest
opposition party, said after meeting with the president. He
called for elections at the end of May.  Cavaco Silva must consult with the parties and the Council
of State before accepting Socrates’s resignation. The  council  is
an advisory body that includes former presidents, the prime
minister and the head of the Constitutional Court, as well as
other presidential and parliamentary appointees.  Ratings Lowered  The political deadlock comes as downgrades to Portugal’s
credit rating threaten to deepen its debt woes. Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings both cut Portugal’s rating yesterday.  “Portugal needs to pay what it owes; it needs to clean up
its finances,” said Paulo Portas, head of the  People’s Party , a
self-described right-wing group, after talks with the president.
He also called for elections as soon as possible.  Portugal’s 10-year yield advanced as much as 14 basis
points to 7.80 percent. The difference in yield that investors
demand to hold the securities instead of German bunds widened 10
basis points to 451 basis points, the most since November. The
Portuguese two-year yield increased as much as 38 basis points
to 7.09 percent.  Government’s Plan  Opposition parties united to reject additional cuts that
were the equivalent of 4.5 percent of gross domestic product
over three years. The package included a reduction in pensions
of more than 1,500 euros a month and further decreases in tax
benefits. The government said the extra measures were needed to
trim the deficit to 4.6 percent of GDP this year and within the
EU’s 3 percent limit in 2012.  “The Portuguese economy is facing worse conditions”
because of the political crisis, said Vieira da Silva, the
economy minister, reiterating that the country must do
everything to avoid external aid. He suggested a June 5 date for
elections.  Portugal is bracing for its first bond maturities of the
year. The country faces redemptions worth about 9 billion euros
in total on April 15 and June 15, and intends to sell as much as
20 billion euros of bonds this year to finance its budget and
cover maturing debt.  “I hope Portugal doesn’t need an international rescue,”
Passos Coelho said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in
Brussels yesterday.  His party has enough support to win a majority in
parliament, according to a voter survey by market-research
company Marktest published today in the newspaper Diario
Economico. The poll showed 47 percent support for the  Social
Democrats , followed by 25 percent for the Socialists, the
newspaper said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Silver in Lisbon at 
 jsilver@bloomberg.net ;
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Risser at  
 drisser@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at  
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  