-- 
Qaddafi Is Attacking Civilians With Elite Units, Official Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/qaddafi-using-elite-units-to-attack-civilians-u-s-defense-officials-say.html
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s
most elite units, including a brigade commanded by one of his
sons, are now leading the attacks on three cities, according to
U.S. defense officials.  The forces -- Qaddafi’s “regime protection units” --
include the 32nd Brigade and the smaller, less capable 9th
Regiment. They also include fighters from tribal areas connected
to Qaddafi, said an e-mailed statement from a defense official
familiar with  Libya ’s military.  Probably more than half of Qaddafi’s available ground
forces are involved in the attacks against civilians that are
now focused in Misrata, Zintan and Ajdabiyah, the official said.  The majority of the 32nd Brigade, the 9th Regiment and
portions of other “regime protection forces are actively
engaged in eliminating opposition forces,” said the statement.
“The opposition force is an overwhelmingly popular civilian
protest movement.”  The 32nd Brigade, estimated by the Pentagon to have as many
as 10,000 troops, has been commanded by Qaddafi’s youngest son,
Khamis. It has the best equipment and is the primary regime
protection element. Both the 32nd and the 9th are heavy armor
units.  Mercenaries and ‘Thuggery’  The regime is “likely using militia and less capable
forces to keep the opposition from resurfacing where the regime
has taken control,” said the statement. Those forces include an
“unknown number of mercenaries recruited from other countries,
mostly in sub-Saharan  Africa , and uses them in small groups
conducting activities amounting to thuggery,” the statement
said.  After days of allied attacks on their equipment,
communication, ammunition and fuel, Qaddafi’s forces remain a
“serious ground threat” to Libyan civilians and rebels, U.S.
Vice Admiral Bill Gortney told reporters yesterday.  Attacks by U.S. and coalition allies have degraded the
Libyan regime’s ability to communicate with its forces in the
field, Gortney said at the Pentagon. Air strikes are cutting
supply lines for Qaddafi’s forces, he said.  Gortney said the coalition’s capability to attack Qaddafi’s
units in the cities is hampered by the limitations of
distinguishing between civilians and Libyan forces from fast-
moving jets.  “The difficulty in identifying friend from foe anywhere is
always a difficult challenge,” he said. “The ability to
identify friend from foe inside an urban environment is
magnified significantly.”  Surveillance Aircraft  “As we bring in more surveillance aircraft and we get a
better picture of the ground order of battle, our ability to go
after Qaddafi’s forces” outside cities will improve, he said.  Gortney said the U.S. will continue to provide  Northrop
Grumman Corp. (NOC) ’s Global Hawk surveillance drone and J-Stars
ground-equipment-tracking aircraft;  Boeing Co. (BA)  airborne warning
and control system, or Awacs, aircraft-tracking planes; BAE
Systems Plc EC-130H Compass Call aircraft for jamming and
disrupting communications, and  L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL) 
RC-135V/W Rivet Joint eavesdropping aircraft.  The U.S. and coalitions also is mulling use of armed
drones, helicopters and  AC-130U  gunships capable of loitering at
night over an area to attack an enemy force with precision
missiles, cannon or machine guns.  “Those are all weapons in our toolbox that are being
considered,” Gortney said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  