-- 
Qaddafi Unites Arabs Against Him in Campaign to Oust ‘Mad Dog’

-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 
2011-03-25T12:03:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/qaddafi-unites-arab-league-in-campaign-to-oust-libya-s-mad-dog-dictator.html
President  Ronald Reagan  called
 Muammar Qaddafi  a “mad dog” in 1986 when he ordered air
strikes on Tripoli. A quarter century later, it might be the
Libyan leader’s fellow Arabs who ultimately broker his downfall.  After opposing the Reagan response to Qaddafi’s terrorism,
the 22-member Arab League is backing the bombing campaign led by
Britain, France and the U.S. to ground Libya’s air force and
halt Qaddafi’s attempt to crush a rebellion.  “Arab leaders want to be on the right side of history and
don’t want to be seen backing a maniac dictator who’s killing
his own people,” said  Jan Techau , director of the  Carnegie
Endowment  for International Peace in Brussels and a former
analyst at the NATO Defense College. “The Arab world realizes
it has to change and what we’re seeing is a collective reaction
against the one state that totally rejects modernity.”  Before renouncing nuclear weapons in 2002, Qaddafi was a
pariah as one of the earliest backers of terror attacks abroad,
according to the U.S. and European governments. His regime has
been responsible for the death of at least 440 people in four
countries, as well as brutality in  Libya .  Reagan’s military action followed the April 1986 bombing of
a Berlin discotheque that killed two U.S. servicemen and a
Turkish woman. Four people, including a Libyan diplomat, were
convicted by a German court for participating in the attack. The
German government said in 2004 that Libya agreed to pay $35
million in compensation to victims.  Lockerbie, IRA  The 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie,
 Scotland , killed 270 people and the only man convicted of the
atrocity is a former Libyan intelligence officer. It was
followed a year later by the attack on a French UTA plane over
Niger, when 170 people died. Qaddafi in 2004 agreed to pay $170
million in compensation, the French government said.  Qaddafi also provided arms to terrorist groups such as the
 Irish Republican Army . Former U.K. Prime Minister Gordon Brown
pledged in 2009 to support compensation claims from the victims’
families, who said Libya supplied explosives used in some IRA
atrocities. Libya has refused to pay.  At home, Qaddafi’s worst acts include what  Human Rights
Watch  described as a “mass killing” of as many as 1,200 people
at Tripoli’s Abu Salem prison in 1996.  ‘Dangerous Man’  “His legacy is state-sponsored terrorism, ego-driven toxic
politics, and despair and desperation for Libyans,” Shada Islam, a Middle East expert at the  Friends of Europe  policy-
advisory group in Brussels, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s easy to make fun of him, but he’s a very dangerous man.”  The final break with the Arab world came March 12 when the
 Arab League , meeting in an emergency session, asked the  United
Nations Security Council  to impose a no-fly zone over Libya,
which has Africa’s largest oil reserves, to thwart attacks by
Qaddafi’s forces on civilians.  While Amr Moussa, secretary general of the Arab League,
said on March 12 one or two members of the Cairo-based group had
voiced concerns, he reiterated this week that countries remain
“committed” to UN efforts to halt the 68-year-old Qaddafi.  Leaders like Zimbabwe’s Robert Mugabe, who Human Rights
Watch says uses “violence and repression” to hold power,
haven’t been the target of such measures, in part because
regional groups like the African Union don’t back such steps.  The conflict in Libya erupted last month after the Middle
East uprisings that started in neighboring  Tunisia  spread to
 Egypt  and are still going in Bahrain, Syria and Yemen.  Saudi King  Qaddafi’s four decades in power have been marked by
terrorism, human rights abuses, international sanctions and
disagreements with his Middle Eastern neighbors, including a
spat with  Saudi Arabia ’s King Abdullah.  “Your lies precede you and the grave is ahead of you,”
Abdullah, then crown prince, warned Qaddafi at a 2003 Arab
summit. The Libyan leader verbally attacked him before the U.S.-
led invasion of  Iraq  to overthrow Saddam Hussein.  Qaddafi came to power in a 1969 military coup that
overthrew Libya’s first and only  monarch ,  King Idris , who had
ruled from the former Italian colony’s independence in 1951.  An army officer, Qaddafi claimed to be creating a regime
that gave power to the people through so-called popular
committees of ordinary Libyans. Qaddafi gave himself the title
“The Brother Leader of the Revolution” and regarded political
parties as a source of strife, according to his  manifesto , “The
Green Book.” He never designated a successor in a country whose
constitution he abolished and kept power by crushing dissent
through a network of informants.  Damaged ‘Mentally’  “He’s damaged his country mentally,” Katerina Dalacoura,
a Middle East expert at the  London  School of Economics, said in
a telephone interview. “You can’t just look at the body count.
His legacy will be to leave a country that’s so institutionally
eviscerated that it’s hard to see how they’ll proceed.”  Outside Libya, Qaddafi is known for his eccentric behavior
such as surrounding himself with an all-female bodyguard corps,
Ukrainian nurses, and pitching a Bedouin tent in Paris and Rome
during state visits to  France  in 2007 and  Italy  in 2009.  “The main adjective for Qaddafi’s 40 years of rule is
erratic,” Volker Perthes, director of the German Institute for
International and Security Affairs in Berlin, said in an
interview. “He shifted from socialism to populism, but
basically ended up as a tribal leader with oil.”  Oil Exports  Oil accounted for more than 95 percent of Libya’s export
earnings in 2010, with an average production of 1.5 million
barrels a day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The nation had $150 billion of foreign-currency reserves at
the central bank and the Libya Investment Authority, equivalent
to 60 percent more than its gross domestic product, at the end
of last year, according to the  International Monetary Fund . The
IMF says unemployment is “high,” particularly among the young,
without providing a figure.  “Qaddafi was the worst of the worst,” Philippe Moreau- Defarges, a researcher at the Paris-based French Institute of
International Affairs, said in a telephone interview. “Tunisia,
for all its faults, did develop a functioning economy and a
relative prosperity. Egypt remained a cultural center for the
Arab world with a reasonable openness. In Libya, nothing. In
spite of its oil, it’s very behind economically.”  Qaddafi’s attempts to export the self-styled revolution to
other countries put Libya under U.S. and  United Nations
sanctions  in the 1980s and 1990s after the government was
accused of sponsoring terrorism.  Officer Slain  In London, a police officer was killed in 1984 by gunfire
from inside the Libyan embassy, the  British Broadcasting Corp. 
reported at the time. The Libyan suspects were allowed to leave
the country under diplomatic immunity and the U.K. broke
diplomatic relations with Qaddafi.  The turnaround in relations with the West started in 1999,
when Qaddafi allowed the extradition of two Libyan suspects in
the Lockerbie bombing. He abandoned nuclear weapons development
efforts after 2002 and pledged to destroy a chemical weapons
stockpile. He also renounced terrorism.  Libya paid $1.5 billion into a compensation fund for
terrorism victims to settle claims related to attacks, including
the 1988 bombing of the U.S.-bound airliner over Lockerbie, then
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice certified in 2008.  The actions led to an easing of sanctions and improved
ties with the U.S. and  Europe . Western investment to expand
Libyan oil production followed, as did Libyan investment in the
West ranging from a stake in Italian bank  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  to a 1.5
million-pound ($2.4 million) donation to the London School of
Economics. The LSE’s director, Howard Davies, resigned this
month and said it was a mistake to take the money.  Blair Meeting  The visit to France four years ago came after Qaddafi was
welcomed back into the international fold. U.K. Prime Minister
Tony Blair visited him in his tent in Tripoli in 2004 and said
Qaddafi had found “common cause” with the West in fighting
terrorism.  Scottish authorities released Libyan Abdel Basset Ali al- Megrahi, the only person convicted of the jetliner attack over
Lockerbie, on compassionate grounds in 2009 because he was said
to be dying of cancer. He remains alive, according to Scottish
officials responsible for monitoring him.  Qaddafi’s efforts led to a rapprochement of sorts with
Italy, the country that had Libya as a colony from 1912 to World
War II. Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi promised to spend $4.8
billion over 20 years, mostly paid to Italian companies, to
build a road across Libya from Tunisia to Egypt.  Meets Obama  At a Group of Eight dinner in Italy in 2009, which the
Libyan ruler attended in his role as head of the African Union,
he shook hands for the first time with President Barack Obama.  When it came to his fellow Arabs, Qaddafi’s relationships
weren’t always cordial as he sought regional unity.  It was Lebanon, along with France, that presented the UN
Security Council resolution that authorized the military
operations aimed at Qaddafi’s forces.  While Lebanese politics in recent years has been marked by
prolonged standoffs between a coalition built around Shiite
militia Hezbollah and the pro-Western March 14 movement, both
sides of the political divide are united by their dislike of the
Libyan leader because of the 1978 disappearance of prominent
Lebanese Shiite cleric Moussa al-Sadr in Libya. Lebanon issued
an arrest warrant for Qaddafi in 2008 over the disappearance,
according to a Human Rights Watch report last year.  Killed, Secret  Major Abdel Moneim al-Houni, a former member of Libya’s
revolutionary command council who resigned as the country’s
ambassador to the Arab League on Feb. 20, said al-Sadr was
killed and buried in Libya’s Sabha region. Al-Houni said his
brother-in-law, who was the pilot of Qaddafi’s private plane,
was tasked with transporting al-Sadr’s body to Sabha and was
killed himself shortly after doing so to keep the crime secret,
Al-Hayat newspaper reported on Feb. 23.  In 1988, at an Arab summit, Qaddafi kept a glove on when he
shook hands with the king of  Morocco , Hassan II, because the
monarch had met earlier with Shimon Peres, the current Israeli
president. At the same summit, he told other Arab leaders to
“go to hell,” the  New York Times  reported at the time.  In 2003, during another Arab summit before the U.S.-led
invasion of Iraq, Qaddafi angered Saudi King Abdullah, then
crown prince, when he said that the Muslim kingdom had aligned
itself with the “devil” by allowing foreign troops in after
Saddam Hussein had annexed  Kuwait  in 1990.  “Saudi Arabia is a Muslim country and not an agent of
colonialism like you and others,” Abdullah said, wagging his
finger in Qaddafi’s direction. “Who brought you to power? Huh?
Do tell me, who brought you to power? Don’t talk about things
that you don’t know.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  