-- 
Radiation, Particles, Effect on Food, Human Health: Questions and Answers

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 
2011-03-25T07:44:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/radiation-particles-effect-on-food-human-health-questions-and-answers.html
Radiation leaks from Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s damaged nuclear power plant in northeastern  Japan 
have contaminated food, leading to concern about the safety of
Japanese produce and long-term health effects.  Here are answers to some frequently asked questions about
radiation and the way it can harm human health and contaminate
food. The information is drawn from interviews today with George
Dracoulis, professor emeritus in the department of nuclear
physics at the  Australian National University  in Canberra, and
Evan Douple, associate chief of research at the Radiation
Effects Research Foundation in Hiroshima, Japan.  Q: What is radiation?
A: Radiation is energy emitted from a source. Nuclear energy is
produced by splitting the nucleus of a uranium or plutonium atom. 
That creates other unstable nuclei, or isotopes, including
  iodine -131 and  cesium-137 , which continue to decay into other 
nuclei until they eventually reach a stable form. The time it 
takes for the radioactivity to drop to half the starting level 
is called the half-life of the isotope.  Decay emits radiation in the form of beta and  gamma rays .
Gamma rays are photons traveling at high speed and beta rays are
electrons or positrons. Beta rays can be stopped by aluminum
shielding, while gamma rays can only be stopped by a layer of
lead.  In a nuclear accident, radioactive isotopes including
iodine-131 and cesium-137, which are normally contained inside
the fuel rods, may be released into the atmosphere as gases or
particulates if the rods are damaged. These can be inhaled or
ingested through contaminated food or water.  Q: How is radiation harmful?
A: Both beta and gamma rays can pass through human tissues,
where they collide with other atoms, breaking up molecules and
potentially damaging the DNA inside cells. When the body tries
to repair the damage, mistakes may be made, creating the
potential for cancer.  Q: What is the difference between a physical and biological
half-life of a radio isotope?
A: Any radio isotope ingested has a biological half life, which
differs from its physical half-life depending on how quickly the
body eliminates it. Although the physical half-life of
cesium-137 is 30 years, its biological half-life can be measured
in weeks. High-energy gamma rays from  cesium-137  inside the
stomach or intestines may enable it to irradiate the body, and
some material may be incorporated in bone and other tissues.  Q: Why is there concern about iodine-131?
A: I-131, the radioactive form of iodine, is a weak emitter of
beta rays. If the exposure is external, the energy is deposited
on the surface of the skin and isn’t normally a health problem.
If inhaled or ingested, I-131 is selectively taken up by the
thyroid gland, where it continues to decay, emitting gamma
radiation. At high concentrations it can cause cancer.  Q: Why is there concern about cesium-137?
A: Cesium is a solid particulate compound that can be deposited
and cause contamination on clothing or on the ground. It also
emits high-energy gamma rays. While it is eventually eliminated
from the body, Cs-137 has a tendency to concentrate in bones.  Q: How far from the plant will radioactive particles travel?
A: That depends on the prevailing wind and weather. Radioactive
elements are heavy and don’t remain airborne very long.  Q: How do you know if food is contaminated?
A: A sensitive radiation  detector  can be used to detect food
contaminated with radioactive particles. There is no externally
visible sign or indication.  Q: Can contamination from one vegetable be passed to another?
A: Cross-contamination is possible through the movement of dust
or liquid from a contaminated article to a non-contaminated
article.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net ;
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  