-- 
Rambus Says May 2 Patent Trial Date Is Voided by Judge

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-03-25T23:02:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/rambus-says-may-2-patent-trial-date-is-voided-by-judge-1-.html
Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  said its May 2 date for
a trial on patent-infringement claims against Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. and two other chipmakers was vacated by a
federal judge in San Jose,  California .  U.S. District Judge Ronald Whyte ruled today that the trial
should wait until after the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit in  Washington  decides related cases, said Linda Ashmore, a Rambus spokeswoman. He scheduled a case management
hearing for the second Friday after the appeals court ruling,
she said in a telephone interview.  Rambus, the Sunnyvale, California-based designer of high-
speed computer-memory chips, has sued companies that refused to
license its patents, including Ichon, South Korea-based Hynix,
the world’s second-largest memory-chip maker; Boise, Idaho-based
 Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  and Taoyuan, Taiwan-based Nanya
Technology Corp.  The defendants in the San Jose lawsuit had asked Whyte to
delay the trial until after the Washington court rules, while
Rambus favored keeping the May 2 trial.  The appeals court is weighing two cases with the same
issues: when Rambus had to begin preserving documents that it
might be required to give its opponents in litigation and the
legal standard for determining that date.  Rambus’s patent claims cover DRAM chips, or dynamic random
access memory. Whyte set the May 2 trial date anticipating the
appeals court in Washington would already have issued rulings,
according to court documents.  A judge in a Micron case in federal court in Wilmington,
Delaware, ruled 12 Rambus patents unenforceable as punishment
for document destruction. In the second case, Hynix is appealing
a ruling in which Whyte rejected similar arguments and allowed a
trial to proceed, leading to a $397 million judgment in Rambus’s
favor.  The case is Rambus Inc. v.  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660) , 5:05-
cv-00334, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  