-- 
Raunchy ‘Mormon’ Mocks Missionaries, ‘Lion King’: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-03-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/raunchy-book-of-mormon-spoofs-missionaries-lion-king-jeremy-gerard.html
Hitler has a cameo in “The Book of
Mormon,” dodging crimson flames, psychedelic twirling coffee
cups and super-size honey-glazed donuts with his eternally
roasting pals Johnnie Cochran, Genghis Khan and Jeffrey Dahmer.  It comes in “Spooky Mormon Hell Dream,” the new musical’s
Act II showstopper. Like “Springtime for Hitler” in “The
Producers,” it’s exuberantly over-the-top, a sinister soiree
with tritons, skeletons and, inevitably, a kick line with
glittering top hats and tails.  Hell, in “Book of Mormon,” is a missionary outpost in
Northern Uganda where two freshly minted Elders, Price and
Cunningham, have been sent to pitch Joseph Smith to the natives.  So far, the eight Elders who preceded them have failed to
baptize a single villager.  Salt Lake City  is unhappy and
threatens to shut them down (just like the Save-a-Soul Mission
in “Guys and Dolls”).  But it isn’t Frank Loesser the authors of “Mormon” have
in their crosshairs. These are the guys who bring us  “South
Park”  each week (Trey Parker and Matt Stone) with Robert Lopez
(from the equally foul-mouthed puppet show  “Avenue Q” ). They
share credit for the music, lyrics and book of “Mormon.”  Darkest Africa  We follow the adventures of straight-arrow suck-up Price
(Andrew Rannells) and fat screw-up Cunningham (Josh Gad) from
the Tabernacle in  Utah  to Darkest Africa.  The villagers welcome them with the oddly familiar-
sounding, upbeat “Hasa Diga Eebowai,” which Price and
Cunningham gamely join -- until someone points out that the
title means doing something unmentionable to God, an imprecation
vividly underscored with flip-the-bird-heavenward
gesticulations.  Got AIDS? Hasa diga eebowai! Poverty? Flip the bird. Female
circumcision? Hasa diga eebowai!  The target, of course, is  “The Lion King,”  which takes it
on the chin rather too heavy-handedly, especially in this parody
of that show’s treacly anthem “Hakuna Matata.” Subtlety is not
in the artistic arsenal here.  The villagers live in fear of a marauding general whose
name is unprintable and who aims to mutilate the genitals of
every girl in sight. Leave it to Cunningham, a natural
prevaricator, to spice up the Mormon story with appearances by
Darth Vader, Captain Kirk and a magic frog. Soon the natives are
lining up for baptismal dousing.  Busby Berkeley  The big musical numbers, staged by Casey Nicholaw (who co-
directed with Parker) are throwbacks to Busby Berkeley’s
Broadway, with action building on action to a highly populated
delirium of singing and dancing. Along with “Hell,” the
standouts are “Turn It Off,” a paean to self-denial, and “I
Am Africa,” sung by the white missionaries.  Scott Pask designed the ingenious, funny sets: The
proscenium is framed, Tabernacle-style; the village is a mash-up
of thatch, junk and hand-scrawled road signs. Brian MacDevitt’s
lighting shimmers in varied intensities of sunlight. Ann Roth’s
costumes, unlike the show itself, find perfection in
understatement.  Texting her people on a portable typewriter is Nikki M.
James as the comely heroine; Michael James Scott is the dirty-
named General.  Like several shows this season, “Book of Mormon” is too
long and comes close to wearing out its welcome before redeeming
itself with a strong second act. And like most 12-year-old-boys,
it isn’t nearly as nasty as it would have us believe. Not that
there’s anything wrong with that.  At the Eugene O’Neill Theatre, 230 W. 49th St. Information:
+1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com  Rating: ***1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 