-- 
Raytheon Warhead Deliveries Halted After December Failure

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-25T22:13:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/raytheon-missile-defense-warhead-deliveries-halted-gao-says.html
The U.S. Missile Defense Agency in
January halted deliveries of  Raytheon Co. (RTN) ’s most advanced
warhead for the nation’s anti-missile interceptors after a
December test failure, according to congressional auditors.  The warhead failed in January 2010 because of a “quality
control event,” and again in December because of an
undetermined glitch, the U.S. Government Accountability Office
said in its annual  assessment  of U.S. missile defense programs,
released today in Washington.  Lieutenant General Patrick O’Reilly, head of the Missile
Defense Agency, told the GAO that, “based on the issues that
arose” in the December test, he ordered a delivery halt of
completed warheads, according to the report. Raytheon continues
to work on components of the warhead that were deemed not part
of the December failure, the GAO said.  “This delay is in effect until such time as the root cause
of the failure is determined,” said missile agency spokesman
Richard Lehner. Eleven warheads in varying stages of completion
are affected, he said. “The Missile Defense Agency and its
industry partners continue to focus on the root cause
investigation,” Lehner said.  The 2010 tests were intended to demonstrate the warhead
works as designed. The Missile Defense Agency has continued a
pattern started by President  George W. Bush ’s administration in
2002 to accelerate the purchase and fielding of unproven
systems, the GAO said.  The Raytheon warhead is a non-explosive, hit-to-kill
weapon, designed to pulverize an incoming ballistic missile by
colliding with it at high speed. It separates from its booster
and flies on its own for an interception, guided by internal
sensors.  Production and fielding of the advanced warheads “has
gotten ahead of testing,” according to the report. “Even
though the warhead has failed both intercept attempts, 12 of 23
have already been delivered.”  $41 Billion Network  The Raytheon warhead is the core weapon in the $41 billion
U.S. network of ground-based interceptor missiles linked by
satellites, radar and communications.  The 30 missiles are in silos at Fort Greely,  Alaska , and
Vandenberg Air Force Base,  California , as a defense against
North Korean missiles, including 10 with the warheads that have
failed, the GAO said.  Raytheon, the world’s largest missile maker, assembles the
warheads at its plant in Tucson, Arizona.  John Patterson , a
company spokesman, declined to comment on the delivery halt,
referring questions to the Missile Defense Agency.  Boeing Co. (BA) , based in Chicago, is the prime contractor on
the system.  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ,  Orbital Sciences Corp. (ORB)  and
Raytheon are the main subcontractors. Raytheon has made the
warhead for the interceptor missiles since 1999.  Raytheon fell 48 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $50.80 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading of 1.59
million shares. The drop was the most since March 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  