-- 
Reactor Core May Be Leaking at Damaged Fukushima Plant

-- B y   G o   O n o m i t s u   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-03-25T22:10:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/reactor-core-may-be-breached-leaking-radiation-at-damaged-fukushima-plant.html
Japan ’s nuclear regulator said a
reactor core at the quake-damaged Fukushima power plant may be
leaking after workers were injured by radioactive water.  The Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency said yesterday
there may be some kind of leak from the reactor, causing high
levels of radiation found in water in the basement of the
reactor No. 3’s turbine building.  “We’re trying to prevent a deterioration of the
situation,” Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said in a public address
in Tokyo yesterday. “We must continue to work with a high sense
of alertness.”  Repair work at the site of the worst nuclear disaster since
Chernobyl has been plagued by explosions, fires and leaks of
toxic material. The plant’s operator,  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.,
said pools of radioactive water had accumulated at other
reactors,  Kyodo News  reported.  Tokyo Electric plans to drain the water from the building,
Osamu Yokokura, a spokesman, said. It has yet to determine how
and when to do this, he said.  “The water that is coming out of that area is much higher
in terms of radiation and this is obviously complicating the
clean up,” said Tony Roulstone, an atomic engineer who directs
the University of Cambridge’s master’s program in nuclear energy.
“If it’s leaking out then they have to figure out some way to
contain this water.”  High Radiation  The agency said yesterday it doesn’t think there is a
physical crack in the pressure vessel or containment vessel,
which surround the core, at the No. 3 reactor.  Tokyo Electric  found water at No. 1 reactor with radiation
levels 10,000 times higher than normal cooling water, company
officials said at a press conference shown on a webcast.  The March 11 quake, Japan’s biggest ever, left the plant
without power needed to cool nuclear fuel rods. Japan yesterday
advised more people living close to the nuclear plant to
evacuate because basic goods are in short supply, while assuring
them that radiation levels haven’t risen.  Radiation readings for residents living between 20
kilometers (12 miles) and 30 kilometers from the plant are
falling, according to the Nuclear Safety Commission of Japan.  An order for the residents to remain inside their homes
doesn’t have to be amended right now, commission member Seiji
Shiroya said yesterday.  Damaged Reactors  Should the reading for radioactive substances start to
increase, the commission will advise the government to change
the order for evacuation, he told a press conference in Tokyo.  The cores of three reactors are still badly damaged and
it’s not clear that cooling can be restored to all the reactors,
Edwin Lyman, a researcher at the Washington, D.C.-based Union of
Concerned Scientists said.  The nuclear industry was lulled because there hasn’t been a
large-scale accident in 25 years, Lyman said today in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart.”  “Complacency set in among regulators and the industry,”
he said. “It’s clear the industry can’t survive too many more
events like this.”  The death toll from the quake and tsunami climbed to 10,102
as of 9 p.m. local time yesterday, with 17,053 people missing,
according to the  National Police Agency  in Tokyo.  The spread of radiation to food and water supplies prompted
bulk-buying of bottled drinks even as the government said the
health threat remained minimal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Go Onomitsu in Tokyo at 
 gonomitsu@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  