-- 
U.S. 10-Year Treasury Yields Near Two-Week High Before Report on GDP Data

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-03-25T11:45:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/treasury-yields-near-2-week-high-before-report-expected-to-show-gdp-growth.html
U.S. 10-year Treasury yields were
near the highest in almost two weeks before a report that’s
expected to show the world’s biggest economy grew at the fastest
pace in three quarters.  Benchmark U.S. debt yielded as much as 3.41 percent,
equaling yesterday’s high, which was the most since March 14.
Today’s data is expected to show the  U.S. economy  expanded 3
percent in the fourth quarter, up from 2.6 percent in the third
quarter and higher than a previous estimate of 2.8 percent,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  “The bigger picture for Treasuries is that real economic
growth in the U.S. is doing fine and the Fed seems determined to
do everything to keep growth going,” said  David Schnautz , a
fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in London. “That
means upside risks to yields prevail.” ‘  Ten-year yields were little changed at 3.39 percent at
11:20 a.m. in London, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader,
leaving the yield up 13 basis points in the week. The 3.625
percent note maturing in February 2021 was up 3/32, or $0.93 per
$1,000 face amount, at 101 29/32.  The 10-year yield will advance to 3.92 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of finance companies with the
most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  Separate data today is expected to show confidence among
U.S. consumers fell in March. Treasuries declined yesterday even
as a report showed U.S. durable-goods orders fell.  ‘Tensions Simmering’  Treasuries have returned 0.2 percent this month after a 0.1
percent slide in February, based on Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data. For this week, they are down 0.5 percent as of
yesterday.  “There doesn’t seem to be any further strong support for
Treasuries at the moment,” said  Orlando Green , assistant
director of capital markets strategy at Credit Agricole SA in
London. “Global tensions are simmering but they’re not getting
worse. The macro picture in the U.S. will take precedent. Growth
in the U.S. this year will be modest but sustained. Provided
there are no new negative surprises, yields should go higher.”  The U.S. economy is likely to expand by a “relatively
healthy 3 percent” in 2011, according to Green.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of
consumer sentiment probably decreased to 68 in March from 77.5
in February, based on a survey of economists by Bloomberg News.
The preliminary reading for this month was 68.2.  Two-year yields climbed to a two-week high of 0.70 percent,
prompting Barclays Capital Inc. to say they offer value.  TIPS Auction, Returns  This is “an attractive entry point,” Barclays analysts
Ajay Rajadhyaksha and  Dean Maki  wrote in a report yesterday.
“Front-end rates are likely to decline,” according to
Barclays, one of the 20 primary dealers authorized to trade
directly with the  Federal Reserve .  Demand for inflation-protected notes increased at an
auction yesterday. Treasury Inflation Protected Securities are
outperforming conventional bonds as investors bet U.S. growth is
fast enough to push up prices in the economy.  The 10-year TIPS drew a yield of 0.92 percent versus the
average forecast of 0.981 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 9 of
the 20 primary dealers, those companies that are obliged to
participate in U.S. government auctions. Investors bid for 2.97
times the amount of debt, the highest level since April 2010.  TIPS have returned 2.3 percent in 2011, versus 0.1 percent
for Treasuries that don’t carry inflation protection, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and TIPS, a
gauge of trader expectations for consumer prices over the life
of the debt, has widened to 2.47 percentage points from 1.84
percentage point six months ago.  ‘Haven Flows’  Bonds may be supported today after Standard & Poor’s cut
 Portugal ’s debt ranking before European leaders gather for a
second day to address the region’s debt crisis, underpinning
demand for the perceived safety of U.S. government securities.
Japanese regulators today said a reactor core at an earthquake-
damaged plant may be breached, threatening radiation leaks at
the facility north of  Tokyo .  U.S. 30-year Treasuries rose for the first day in three,
pushing down the yield on the bond due February 2041 by two
basis points to 4.46 percent. The move pared the weekly rise in
the yield to five basis points.  “In the short term, you still have all these safe-haven
flows due to events in  Japan , the Middle East and North Africa
and the fallout from the euro-zone government debt crisis,”
Schnautz said. “That’s still a day-to-day focus.”  Volatility Dwindles  A bailout for Portugal may total 70 billion euros ($99
billion), two European officials with direct knowledge of the
matter said. S&P lowered Portugal’s sovereign ranking by two
levels to BBB from A-, after  Fitch Ratings  cut its assessment of
the nation yesterday. European Union leaders yesterday reduced
the startup capital for a planned euro emergency aid fund.  Volatility in the Treasury market dwindled this week,
Merrill Lynch’s Move index shows. The gauge dropped to 90.1
yesterday, the lowest level since November, from 103.7 a week
earlier. The index measures price swings in Treasuries based on
over-the-counter options maturing in two to 30 years.  The Federal Reserve is  scheduled  to buy $4 billion to $6
billion of government debt due from September 2012 to September
2013 today as part of its plan to support the expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in  London  
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  