-- 
Treasury Backs Permanent Research Tax Break Even in Overhaul

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-03-25T10:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/treasury-backs-permanent-research-tax-break-even-in-overhaul.html
The tax incentive for business
research should survive an overhaul of the corporate  tax code 
that would prune other tax breaks and lower the 35 percent rate,
the U.S. Treasury Department’s top  tax policy  officials said.  Michael Mundaca, assistant Treasury secretary for tax
policy, said that the economic benefits and high-wage jobs
generated by the research credit make it worth preserving, even
in a tax system with fewer targeted tax incentives.  “In a reformed system, you’d still want some incentives to
be provided for research activity, and we think this is a good
incentive to provide,” Mark Mazur, the department’s chief tax
economist, said at a briefing with reporters in Washington
yesterday.  Making the credit permanent could benefit companies such as
 Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , which have all
lobbied Congress for its extension.  The comments by Mundaca and Mazur came before a scheduled
visit today by Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  to  NanoMech ,
a manufacturing company in Springdale, Arkansas. In addition,
the Treasury Department released a study today saying that each
dollar spent on the credit by the government generates a dollar
in additional research conducted by companies.  In the budget plan President  Barack Obama  released Feb. 14,
the administration proposed making the credit permanent and
increasing it. Mundaca said the changes are also designed to
encourage more companies to shift to an alternative calculation
from the standard research credit, which is based in part on
companies’ research spending during the 1980s.  $106.3 Billion Cost  The administration’s proposal would cost the government
$106.3 billion in forgone revenue over the next decade,
according to the Treasury Department. The administration
supports enacting a permanent research credit before a bigger
tax bill and would offset that cost with revenue-raising
proposals in its budget, Mundaca said.  The credit is not part of permanent tax law, and Congress
extends it periodically. It lapsed at the end of 2009 and was
not revived retroactively until December 2010, when an extension
through 2011 was included in the tax law that also prevented the
expiration of the 2001 and 2003 income tax cuts.  The research credit is popular among a range of  companies
and trade associations . According to the Treasury report, 12,736
companies and more than 64,000 individuals claimed $8.7 billion
worth of credits for the 2008 tax year.  Welcome News  Dorothy Coleman, vice president of tax and domestic
economic policy at the  National Association of Manufacturers , a
Washington-based trade group, said the administration’s support
for a permanent research and development credit in a revamped
tax code was welcome news.  “R&D leads to innovation that leads to technological
improvements that help our economic growth, our standing in the
global economy and is really so important to our economy
overall,” she said.  Some studies, including a  Government Accountability Office
report  in 2009, found that much of the credit’s benefit goes to
companies that would perform corporate research in any case.
That report said 549 corporations with revenue of more than $1
billion claimed more than half of the total value of the credit
in 2005.  The administration’s commitment to extending the credit
could make it more difficult to reduce the corporate  tax rate 
from 35 percent, said Joel Slemrod, a professor of economics at
the University of  Michigan  in  Ann Arbor , Michigan.  Tax Trade-Offs  “It technically does make it harder because it’s going to
cost revenue,” he said. “If you’re thinking of revenue-neutral
 tax reform , that’s a trade-off.”  Eliminating the research credit would allow the tax rate to
be lowered by between 0.5 percentage points and 1 percentage
point without reducing  tax revenue , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Earlier this week, Mundaca said that another tax proposal
backed by many companies -- a temporary reduced rate on profits
brought home from overseas -- should not be enacted outside of a
broader tax overhaul because it would distract from that effort.  He separated repatriation and research yesterday by
focusing on the benefits of the research credit proposal.  “There are benefits outside of what the taxpayer who
claims the credit gets,” Mundaca said. “There are general
social benefits from the research being done, and this credit
addresses one of the market inefficiencies in that companies
doing the research can’t always capture the full benefits of the
research they conduct.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  