-- 
Treasuries Head for Weekly Loss as Demand for Safety Drops on Stock Gains

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-03-25T01:13:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/treasuries-head-for-weekly-loss-as-demand-for-safety-drops-on-stock-gains.html
Treasuries headed for their
steepest weekly loss in almost two months as stocks gained
around the world, eroding demand for the safety of debt.  Ten-year yields were about one basis point away from the
highest level in two weeks as Toyota Motor Corp. said it plans
to resume production of some models in  Japan , after an
earthquake and tsunami idled plants for two weeks. U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said the NATO alliance will
take responsibility for enforcing a no-fly zone over  Libya .  “There’s an unwinding of the flight to quality,” said
 Yusuke Tanaka , senior dealer at Mitsubishi UFJ Trust & Banking
Corp. in  Singapore , part of Japan’s largest bank. “The worst
will be avoided in Japan and the Middle East.”  Ten-year yields were little changed at 3.40 percent as of
9:42 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader. The
price of the 3.625 percent note maturing in February 2021 was
101 7/8.  The rate has climbed 13 basis points this week, the most
since the seven days ended Feb. 4. It rose to 3.41 percent
yesterday, the most since March 14.  The MSCI All Country World Index of stocks gained for six
days through yesterday, advancing to a two-week high.  “There is a general sense that there has been a shift in
attitude after the raw emotion of the flight-to-quality trade,
which seems to have dissipated,” said  Kevin Flanagan , a
Purchase, New York-based fixed-income strategist at Morgan
Stanley Smith Barney. “Investors are moving back into risk and
out of Treasuries some.”  Demand for inflation-protected notes rose at an auction
yesterday.  The notes drew a yield of 0.92 percent, compared with the
average forecast of 0.981 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of
9 of the 20 primary dealers, those companies that are obliged to
participate in U.S. government auctions.  Investors bid for 2.97 times the amount of debt, the
highest level since April 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net  