-- 
Treasuries Snap Six-Day Decline After S&P Lowers Portugal's Credit Rating

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-03-25T06:54:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/treasuries-snap-six-day-decline-after-s-p-lowers-portugal-s-credit-rating.html
Treasuries snapped a six-day
decline after Standard & Poor’s cut  Portugal ’s debt ranking and
European leaders prepared to gather for a second day to address
the region’s debt crisis.  Demand for the safety of debt revived following a report
yesterday that showed U.S. durable-goods orders fell and as
economists said figures today will show  consumer confidence 
declined. Investor appetite for  government securities  has
fluctuated this week as  Japan  worked to avert a nuclear meltdown
and allied forces bombed  Libya .  “The flight-to-quality move will continue for a while and
help Treasuries,” said Hiromasa Nakamura, a senior investor in
 Tokyo  at Mizuho Asset Management Co., which oversees the
equivalent of $43.2 billion and is a unit of the nation’s
second-largest bank. “Japan will have a negative effect on the
world economy.”  Ten-year yields were little changed at 3.41 percent as of
6:49 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader. The
3.625 percent note maturing in February 2021 fell 1/32, or 31
cents per $1,000 face amount, to 101 25/32.  Treasuries have returned 0.2 percent this month, rebounding
from a 0.1 percent slide in February, based on Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data. For this week, they are down 0.5 percent as
of yesterday, the figures show.  Volatility in the Treasury market dwindled this week,
Merrill Lynch’s Move index shows. The gauge dropped to 90.1
yesterday, the lowest level since November, from 103.7 a week
earlier. The index measures price swings in Treasuries based on
over-the-counter options maturing in two to 30 years.  Sentiment Worsens  A bailout for Portugal may total 70 billion euros ($99
billion), two European officials with direct knowledge of the
matter said. S&P lowered Portugal’s sovereign ranking by two
levels to BBB from A-, after  Fitch Ratings  cut its assessment of
the nation yesterday.  European Union leaders yesterday reduced the startup
capital for a planned euro emergency aid fund.  Orders for U.S. durable goods dropped 0.9 percent in
February, after a 3.6 percent gain the prior month, the Commerce
Department said yesterday.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of
consumer sentiment decreased to 68 in March from 77.5 in
February, based on a survey of economists by Bloomberg News. The
preliminary reading for this month was 68.2.  Treasuries still headed for a weekly loss, pushing 10-year
yields up 13 basis points, as stocks gained.  The MSCI All Country World Index of shares advanced for six
days through yesterday, climbing to the most in two weeks. The
index was little changed today.  Toyota Production  Toyota Motor Corp. said it plans to resume production of
some models in Japan, after the earthquake and tsunami idled
plants for two weeks. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said the NATO alliance will take responsibility for enforcing a
no-fly zone over Libya.  Two-year yields climbed to a two-week high of 0.70 percent,
prompting Barclays Capital Inc. to say they offer value.  This is “an attractive entry point,” Barclays’s analysts
Ajay Rajadhyaksha and  Dean Maki  wrote in a report yesterday.
“Front-end rates are likely to decline,” according to Barclays,
one of the 20 primary dealers authorized to trade directly with
the  Federal Reserve .  Fed Buying  The central bank is  scheduled  to buy $4 billion to $6
billion of government debt due from September 2012 to September
2013 today as part of its plan to support the expansion.  Treasury Inflation Protected Securities are outperforming
conventional bonds as investors bet U.S. growth is fast enough
to push up prices in the economy.  TIPS have returned 2.3 percent in 2011, versus 0.1 percent
for Treasuries that don’t carry inflation protection, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and TIPS, a
gauge of trader expectations for consumer prices over the life
of the debt, has widened to 2.48 percentage points from 1.84
percentage point six months ago.  Demand for inflation-protected notes increased at an
auction yesterday.  The 10-year TIPS drew a yield of 0.92 percent, compared
with the average forecast of 0.981 percent in a Bloomberg survey
of 9 of the 20 primary dealers, those companies that are obliged
to participate in U.S. government auctions.  Investors bid for 2.97 times the amount of debt, the
highest level since April 2010.  The 10-year yield will advance to 3.92 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of finance companies with the
most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net  