-- 
Treasuries Fall as Plosser Urges Central Bank to Plan Stimulus Withdrawal

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-03-25T21:14:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/treasuries-pare-advance-as-report-shows-economy-grew-faster-than-forecast.html
Treasuries fell after  Federal
Reserve  Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  said an
improving economy means policy makers should detail a plan for
withdrawing record monetary stimulus.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes had their biggest weekly
gain in almost two months on speculation  Europe ’s struggle to
contain its sovereign-debt crisis and  Japan ’s nuclear turmoil
won’t slow the global recovery.  U.S. debt  earlier pared its
advance as a report showed the economy expanded in the fourth
quarter faster than initially estimated.  “The comment from Plosser that the economy seems to be
improving and that we are on a firmer foundation is weighing on
Treasuries,” said Larry Milstein, managing director of
government and agency debt trading in  New York  at R.W.
Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors. “The consistent tone from the Fed is
pushing people to realize that rates might have to start rising
from here.”  Yields on 10-year notes gained four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 3.44 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the
3.625 percent security maturing in February 2021 dropped 9/32,
or $2.81 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 17/32.  The 10-year note yield touched 3.46 percent, the highest
level since March 10. The yield had a weekly increase of 17
basis points, its biggest gain since rising 31 basis points
during the five days ended Feb. 4.  Plosser’s View  The central bank should set a pace for selling its mortgage
and Treasury holdings in conjunction with raising  interest
rates , Plosser said today in New York. He suggested selling $125
billion for every quarter-percentage point rise in the benchmark
rate to almost eliminate $1.5 trillion in bank reserves.  The  Federal Reserve  bought $5.235 billion of government
debt maturing from November 2012 to July 2013 today as part of
its $600 billion program of quantitative easing to support the
economy by keeping borrowing costs low.  The U.S. recovery is gaining strength, and “conditions in
the labor market appear to be improving gradually,” the central
bank said in a statement following its March 15 policy meeting.
The Fed has held its target rate for overnight lending between
banks at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Government debt sales next week and record corporate
issuance weighed on demand for Treasuries. The U.S. will sell
$35 billion of two-year notes on March 28, the same amount of
five-year notes the following day and $29 billion of seven-year
notes on March 30.  Corporate Debt  Corporations offered a weekly record $50.1 billion of
corporate bond offerings according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales exceeded the previous record set in the period
ended Jan. 7 of $48.8 billion.  “The weight of supply is offsetting some of the concerns
from overseas as the market looks for appropriate levels,” said
Ray Remy, head of fixed income in New York at Daiwa Capital
Markets America Inc.  Yesterday’s $11 billion sale of 10-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities drew the highest level of demand in a year
on speculation U.S. economic growth is fast enough to push up
consumer prices.  The 10-year TIPS drew a yield of 0.920 percent, compared
with the average forecast of 0.981 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of 9 of the 20 primary dealers, securities companies that
are obliged to participate in U.S. government auctions.
Investors bid for 2.97 times the amount of debt, the highest
level since April 2010.  TIPS Returns  TIPS have returned 2.3 percent in 2011, compared with a 0.1
percent gain for Treasuries that don’t carry inflation
protection, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and TIPS, a
gauge of trader expectations for consumer prices over the life
of the debt known as the break-even rate, has increased to 2.44
percentage points, compared with 1.84 percentage point six
months ago.  Treasuries pared gains after the Commerce Department
reported that the  U.S. economy  expanded at a 3.1 percent annual
rate in the fourth quarter, up from an estimate last month of a
2.8 percent pace of growth.  “The bigger picture for Treasuries is that real economic
growth in the U.S. is doing fine, and the Fed seems determined
to do everything to keep growth going,” said  David Schnautz , a
fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in  London . “That
means upside risks to yields prevail.”  The 10-year note yield will advance to 3.91 percent by
year-end, according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of finance companies, with the most recent forecasts
given the heaviest weightings.  Volatility in the Treasury market fell this week, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Move index shows. The gauge dropped to
90.1 yesterday, the lowest level since November, from 103.7 a
week earlier. The index measures price swings in Treasuries
based on over-the-counter options maturing in 2 to 30 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  