-- 
Trichet, King Haunted by BOJ’s Premature Interest-Rate Errors

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-03-25T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/trichet-king-haunted-by-bank-of-japan-s-lost-decade-interest-rate-error.html
European central bankers agitating
for higher  interest rates  to quell inflation may be ignoring the
lessons of Japan’s economic history.  As the  European Central Bank  and Bank of England consider
tightening monetary policy, HSBC Holdings Plc and Fathom
Financial Consulting warn officials risk misjudging the
inflation threat and may end up hurting their recoveries. That’s
what repeatedly happened in Japan in the past quarter century as
policy makers constrained credit only to reverse within months
when expansion faltered.  “The danger is of a policy mistake,” said  Stephen King ,
HSBC’s London-based chief economist and a former U.K. Treasury
official. “In an attempt to control inflation this year they
could set the scene for more disappointing growth in the future
as happened in Japan.”  Japan’s woes, which began with the bursting of an asset
bubble and extended beyond the “Lost Decade” of the 1990s,
were a reference for central banks seeking to avoid its errors
when battling the credit crisis.  Ben S. Bernanke , now chairman
of the U.S. Federal Reserve, said in 2003 Japan’s “performance
is due almost entirely to a very poor monetary policy.”  Now some are looking to its track-record on withdrawing
stimulus, with U.K. policy maker  Adam Posen  saying last month
that colleagues should learn from Japan’s 2000 interest-rate
increase, which “led to bad macroeconomic outcomes.”  “Monetary accommodation can help the recovery and
tightening can undercut a nascent recovery, which is what
happened in Japan,” said Daniel Leigh, an International
Monetary Fund economist who wrote a 2009  study  on Japan.  Inflation Pressure  Pressure for a rate increases has mounted in the U.K. and
euro-area as food, fuel and higher indirect taxation propel
inflation beyond central banks’ limits. That’s triggered concern
it will spark broader price increases and that crisis rates are
no longer valid. At the same time, the U.K. economy shrank 0.6
percent in the fourth quarter, the euro-region’s so-called
peripheral economies are battling a debt crisis and policy
makers are unsure if the inflation shock is temporary.  President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled on March 3 that the
ECB will raise its benchmark rate from 1 percent in April, while
three of the nine members of Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King ’s Monetary Policy Committee this month voted for their key
rate to be increased from 0.5 percent.  HSBC’s King draws parallels with the early 1990s, when the
 Bank of Japan  more than doubled its key rate to 6 percent as an
oil-price surge during the  Gulf War  pushed inflation as high as
4.2 percent. Governor Yasushi Mieno then had to backtrack as
inflation evaporated, slashing the benchmark to less than 2
percent by the end of 1993.  Deflationary  The risk is that shocks such as an oil-price surge can
sometimes prove more deflationary than inflationary by squeezing
spending power, said King at HSBC. His fear is that’s what
happening in  Europe  now as the price of crude trades above $100
a barrel, close to the highest in more than two years.  “Dealing with a near-term inflation threat is all very
well, but with oil-price spikes, there’s no such thing as a free
lunch,” said King. “As we now know, the longer-term costs were
enormous: stagnation, deflation and economic underperformance.”  Japan’s failure to escape a slump left its economy less
prepared for the shock of this month’s earthquake and its after-
effects with rates already near zero and debt twice the size of
its economy.  Rate Reversal  Japan’s rate shift in 2000 is also telling, said Erik Britton, a director at Fathom in  London  and a former  Bank of
England  economist. That August, the BOJ lifted its key rate for
the first time in a decade to 0.25 percent, noting an improving
economic recovery and the end of deflation meant a zero rate was
no longer justified. The return of deflation and economic
contraction meant policy makers were again cutting their rate
back to 0.15 percent six months later.  Like Japan, the U.K. has failed to tackle an overhang of
debt, in its case from households, and the recovery remains
weak, said Britton.  “The essential lesson from Japan is unless the underlying
structural cause of weakness in the economy is solved, then as
soon as you start to tighten policy there is a risk it is so
fragile you may just push it back into recession,” he said.  Fiscal Forgetfulness  Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  warns fiscal
policy makers are also ignoring  Japan . The U.K. is imposing the
biggest budget squeeze since World War II and raised its value-
added tax to 20 percent from 17.5 percent in January. Euro-area
nations spooked by the debt crisis are embracing austerity. To
Stiglitz, that echoes Japan’s 1997 effort to balance its budget,
which included a 2 percentage point increase in the consumption
levy now blamed for renewing recession.  “Europe is really facing exactly the same kind of risk,”
Stiglitz told Bloomberg Television on March 8.  Concern that constraining monetary policy spells a Japanese
redux is not without high-level support. The Bank of England’s
Posen said on Feb. 22 that Japan’s 2000 pre-emptive strike
against inflation dealt a “significant blow” to policy makers’
credibility that “further de-anchored inflation expectations.”  “I am not forecasting that a tightening of policy now by
the MPC would lead to deflation in U.K., though I would not rule
that out,” said Posen. “I am arguing that it would be a
similar mistake for the MPC to try to prove its counter-
inflationary toughness just for the sake of chatter about rising
inflation expectations.”  Inflation Breach  Almost three years after the ECB raised its key rate only
to cut it three months later as the credit turmoil deepened,
Trichet now says a rate increase is “possible” in April after
inflation broke the ECB’s 2 percent limit in December.  U.K. inflation has accelerated to 4.4 percent and the Bank
of  England  said this week there is a “significant risk” it
will exceed 5 percent in the coming months. Policy maker  Andrew Sentance  said failure to act now “risks a more abrupt and
destabilizing” rate increase later.  Thomas Mayer , chief economist at Deutsche Bank AG in
 Frankfurt , says the comparisons with Japan are misplaced as the
ECB and Bank of England have inflation goals that are being
breached and that it would be risky to keep rates low for long.
Unlike Japan in the 1990s, European policy makers went all out
in supporting their economies through the crisis, he said.  The European central banks may still tread carefully, said
Masaaki Kanno, a former BOJ official and now chief Japan
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Tokyo . His colleagues
anticipate both will limit increases to 75 basis points this
year.  They seem to “think the economic outlook should be OK if
they hiked rates, but there are risks ahead so they need to be
careful,” said Kanno.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  