-- 
Roche Founder's Family Group Loses Voting Majority as Shareholder Leaves

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-03-25T16:54:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/roche-founder-s-family-loses-voting-majority-as-shareholder-leaves-group.html
A pool of descendants of  Roche
Holding AG (ROG) ’s founder lost a voting majority in the Swiss
drugmaker after a family member decided to become an
independent stockholder.  Maja Oeri, a descendant of founder Fritz Hoffmann-La Roche,
decided to exercise her shareholder rights separately, Bruno Dallo, the family’s representative at  Scobag Privatbank AG  of
Basel,  Switzerland , said in a statement. She holds a 5 percent
voting stake. The pool, which was set up in 1948, now has 45.01
percent voting rights in  Europe ’s largest drugmaker by sales,
according to the statement.  Family members are committed to keeping the Basel-based
company independent, according to the statement.  Novartis AG (NOVN) ,
Roche’s crosstown rival, holds about 33 percent of the voting
stock and unsuccessfully sought talks almost a decade ago with
Roche over a merger or collaboration.  “Although we do not believe that Roche is a takeover
target, it opens up that theoretical possibility down the
line,” Karl-Heinz Koch, an analyst at Helvea AG, said in a
report today. He has a “neutral” rating on the stock.  There was no disagreement among the family members that led
to Oeri’s decision, and she wants the company to remain
independent, Dallo said in a phone interview today. He declined
to say why she wanted to separate herself from the pool.  ‘Committed’  “Even though it no longer holds a voting majority, the
pool remains by far the most significant shareholder,” the
family said in the statement. “It remains committed in the long
term to the overall interests of the company with headquarters
in Basel and to this company’s independence.”  Roche has  two classes  of stock -- bearer shares, which
carry  voting rights , and non-voting equity securities. The
bearer stock rose 6.80 Swiss francs, or 5.1 percent, to 141.30
francs at the close of trading. The non-voting stock fell 10
centimes, or 0.1 percent, to 130.2 francs, giving the company a
market value of 114 billion francs ($124.7 billion).  The bearer shares’ premium over the non-voting stock is
expanding because any takeover would be decided by holders of
the bearer shares, Helvea’s Koch said. There is a value in that
voting right that shrinks toward zero when there is no realistic
prospect of a takeover, and increases when an acquisition
becomes a possible scenario, he said.  Oeri’s membership in the pool will be replaced by a
charitable foundation which was set up by pool members, the
statement said.  In the Pool  The pool will now consist of Vera Michalski-Hoffmann, Maja
Hoffmann, Andre Hoffmann, Andreas Oeri, Sabine Duschmale-Oeri,
Catherine Oeri, Joerg Duschmale, Lukas Duschmale and the
charitable foundation Wolf.  The pool extended its shareholder agreement in January 2009
for an unlimited period to make it difficult for other
drugmakers to acquire it.  Novartis began building a major stake in Roche in 2001, and
by the end of 2002 owned 33 percent. Daniel Vasella, who oversaw
the investment as Novartis’s chief executive officer, stepped
down as CEO last year and remains chairman. “Management sees
the Roche stake as a strategic investment,”  Eric Althoff , a
spokesman for Novartis, said in a telephone interview today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 