-- 
Rove-Backed Lawuit Against Health-Care Law Is Groundless, Sebelius Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-03-28T10:59:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/rove-backed-lawsuit-against-u-s-health-care-law-groundless-sebelius-says.html
(Corrects headline on story that moved March 26.)  Kathleen Sebelius , secretary of the
U.S. Department of  Health and Human Services , said a legal
challenge to President Barack Obama’s health-care overhaul by a
group aligned with Republican strategist  Karl Rove  is
groundless.  “Nothing is further from the truth,” she said in the
administration’s first public comment about the lawsuit’s claim
that the administration was granting exemptions from parts of
the law to unions out of favoritism.  Sebelius also said that the Massachusetts health-care law
enacted under then-Governor  Mitt Romney , a potential 2012
Republican presidential candidate, served as a framework for the
administration’s measure. One difference between them, she said,
is that the U.S. law deals with lowering costs, while
Massachusetts “made a huge mistake” by focusing on access to
care only.  “There’s no question that the framework looks very much
like  Massachusetts , bringing everybody in,” she said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  The lawsuit over the health-care overhaul was filed by
 Crossroads Global Policy Strategies , a political group that
spent millions of dollars to elect Republicans last November. It
seeks to force the administration to reveal its reasons for
granting waivers to the law.  Sebelius said it may be months before the administration
decides whether to grant a waiver on insurer-spending rules in
 Florida , a case she said was much different from a previous
exemption granted to  Maine .  A waiver in the fourth-largest U.S. state might unleash a
flood of other exemptions to a central provision of the law.  ‘A Careful Look’  The administration is “taking a careful look” and is
awaiting more information from the state, she said.  A year ago this week, Obama signed into law the most
sweeping health-care legislation in four decades. It is designed
to provide medical coverage to tens of millions of uninsured
Americans and curb medical costs.  House Republicans , who took control of the chamber this
year, say the law amounts to a government takeover of medical
insurance. They have voted to repeal the measure and prevent it
from being funded.  Sebelius disputed claims by the top Republicans in Congress
that the overhaul would cost jobs.  800,000 Jobs  In an opinion article in the Cincinnati Enquirer this week,
House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  and Senate Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  wrote that according to the
 Congressional Budget Office , the law will result in 800,000 job
losses over a decade.  Sebelius said those numbers “are the CBO saying that it is
possible that some people will choose to retire early because
they no longer will be desperately clinging to their job only to
have health coverage.”  She also said a long-standing proposal by Representative
 Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican and chairman of the House
Budget Committee, to turn Medicare into a voucher system to cut
costs and inject competition could be “dangerous.”  “If you are a seriously chronically ill elderly person
without a real ability to navigate a complicated health system,
you’re going to be in very serious shape without a guaranteed
set of benefits,” she said. “You’d be on your own to figure
out your own health care.”  The health-care overhaul will gain popularity as more
benefits take effect, Sebelius said. She declined to say whether
it would be a political liability for Obama as he seeks re-
election in 2012.  Myths ‘Dispelled’  “We’ll continue to implement the bill in ways that will
impact people positively,” Sebelius said. “The opponents would
like to continue to drive the misinformation about the bill, but
I think each and every day some of those myths are dispelled,
and that’s good news.”  The health-care legislation -- Obama’s top policy
accomplishment -- continues to weigh on his presidency. Two-
thirds of the respondents to a March 4-7 Bloomberg National Poll
said they opposed a requirement that all Americans have health
insurance or pay a penalty. Forty-one percent said the
legislation should be repealed.  On the issue of insurer-spending waivers, the Obama
administration this month granted the first such exemption to
Maine. The state won at least a two-year waiver to federal rules
that require health insurers to spend at least 80 percent of
premiums on patient care.  Maine’s Exemption  Insurers in the state selling policies to individuals will
have to spend only 65 percent of premiums on patients, with the
rest going toward profits and administrative costs. The
exemption will last through 2012, with a possible one-year
extension. The situation in Maine is “pretty unique” because
the state is served by few health insurers, Sebelius said.  Florida, the fourth-most-populous state, has six insurers,
led by  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , that control 85 percent of the
market for individual coverage, a more representative situation.
It is the largest of the seven states seeking waivers, followed
by  Georgia , the country’s ninth-most-populous state.  Sebelius said she “absolutely” plans to stay in her post
through Obama’s first term.  “I am definitely staying,” she said. “It’s incredibly
important work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  