-- 
Russian Central Bank Leaves Refinancing Rate Unchanged at 8% on Inflation

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-03-25T15:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/russian-central-bank-leaves-refinancing-rate-unchanged-at-8-on-inflation.html
Russia ’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged after a surprise increase in
February, opting to raise bank reserve requirements for a fourth
straight month, as a stronger ruble tamed price growth.  Bank Rossii  kept the refinancing rate at 8 percent, the
Moscow-based regulator said today in an e-mailed statement. The
decision was predicted by 11 of 17 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. Policy makers left other policy rates unchanged
while lifting mandatory reserve requirements for liabilities to
5.5 percent from 4.5 percent for non-resident companies and to 4
percent from 3.5 percent for all others.  Central banks in eastern  Europe  and other emerging markets
are pausing rate increases to sustain an economic recovery.
Ruble gains have helped stem the fastest inflation among the so-
called BRIC nations, including  China ,  India  and  Brazil , by
making imports cheaper. The government has also sold discounted
grain from state stockpiles and ordered  oil companies  to cut
fuel prices to rein in cost pressures.  “The decision was made based on the continued high
inflation expectations and risks to the stability of economic
growth,” the central bank said in the  statement . The regulator
also cited “the unstable situation on global financial and
commodities markets, which may have a mixed effect on the
Russian economy.”  ‘Positive Role’  The ruble has outperformed the other BRIC currencies this
year, gaining about 7.8 percent against the dollar, boosted by
oil, Russia’s chief revenue earner, trading above $100 a barrel.
Currency appreciation has played a “positive role in containing
inflation,” the central bank said today.  Bank Rossii raised all of its rates by a quarter-point last
month while also increasing mandatory reserve requirements for
banks and allowing a stronger ruble by widening the currency’s
trading band on March 1.  The 30-stock Micex Index climbed 0.4 percent to 1802.12 at
5:12 p.m. in Moscow. The Russian currency strengthened 0.1
percent to 28.305 per dollar at the close of trading, bringing
its weekly advance to 0.6 percent against the greenback. The
ruble has gained against the dollar in 10 of the last 11 weeks.  Reserve Requirements  Russia, the only BRIC economy without  capital controls , is
relying on reserve requirements to drain cash from the economy
and avoid luring more speculative investment after  oil prices  in
 New York  rose to a 2 1/2-year high of $106.95 on March 7.  This year’s inflow into Russian funds was bigger than in
any first quarter since at least 2001 even as emerging-market
funds worldwide lost $11.7 billion, EPFR Global data show.
Developing-nation money managers have their top “overweight”
holdings in Russia, according to Bank of America Corp.  Russia-focused equity funds saw $289 million of inflows in
the seven days ended March 23, compared with $2.6 billion of
redemptions from all emerging-market funds, VTB Capital and
Otkritie Securities said today, citing EPFR data.  “When oil prices are high, the central bank gets very
worried about possible capital inflows,” Anton Nikitin, an
economist at Moscow-based  Renaissance Capital , said by phone
today. “Raising reserve requirements is intended to prevent
those possible inflows.”  Urals crude, Russia’s main export blend, has surged more
than 20 percent this year to $111.13 a barrel on Friday,
compared with the $75 forecast used for the country’s 2011
budget. Reserve requirements may be raised again if oil stays at
current levels or strengthens, Nikitin said.  Inflows  Net inflows may reach $20 billion this year, Clemens Grafe
and  Anna Zadornova , economists at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
wrote in an e-mail. The country last had a net inflow in 2007,
when it reached $81.7 billion, and posted an  outflow  of $38.3
billion last year.  The threat of speculative capital inflows and a stronger
ruble may be a “big headache” for Russia, central banker
Alexei Ulyukayev has said.  The higher reserve level, which takes effect on Apr. 1,
will help drain between 40 billion rubles ($1.4 billion) and 49
billion rubles, Barclays Capital and OAO Gazprombank estimate.
The previous three increases in the mandatory ratio soaked up
about 97 billion rubles, according to Barclays.  ‘Supporting Growth’  “This is certainly not enough to have a significant effect
on the market, where liquidity levels have averaged 1.4 trillion
rubles this year,”  Barclays Capital  analysts Koon Chow and
Vladimir Pantyushin said by e-mail today. “The move indicates
the central bank’s bias toward supporting growth.”  Industrial output unexpectedly slowed last month and fixed-
 capital investment  shrank during the first two months of the
year after 10 consecutive monthly gains. Unemployment was 7.6
percent in February, near the highest level in 10 months.  Consumer-price growth slowed to an annual 9.4 percent as of
March 21, compared with 9.5 percent in February, Bank Rossii
said in the statement. Monthly inflation will probably reach 0.6
percent in March, Economy Minister  Elvira Nabiullina  said
yesterday. That would be the slowest pace since October,
Bloomberg data show.  The central bank expects to meet its annual target of 6
percent to 7 percent, Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said on March 17.  That’s “almost a mission impossible,”  Annika Lindblad , an
economist at Nordea Bank AB, said in an e-mailed note today.
“Rate hikes remain on the cards for the coming meetings.  Traders are betting on higher  interest rates  in Russia,
with forward-rate agreements showing a risk of 70 basis points,
or 0.7 percentage points, of increases in the next three months,
up from 34 basis points on Dec. 1. The agreements peaked at 115
basis points on Jan. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 