-- 
Samantha Power Brings Activist Role Inside to Help Persuade Obama on Libya

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-03-25T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/samantha-power-brought-activist-role-inside-to-help-sway-obama-on-libya.html
As a young journalist covering the
war in Bosnia in the early 1990s, Samantha Power berated Peter Galbraith, then the U.S. ambassador to  Croatia , for “not doing
enough to stop the slaughter,” Galbraith recalls.  Last week, when President Barack Obama was considering
whether to intervene to stop Muammar Qaddafi’s assault on rebels
in  Libya , Galbraith turned the tables on his friend Power, who
had won a Pulitzer Prize for her book on genocide and now serves
on Obama’s National Security Council staff.  “How can you sit on your hands while Qaddafi is
slaughtering his people?” Galbraith recounted needling her in
an e-mail. “You’re the person who exposed what happened in
Rwanda -- how could you let this become Obama’s Rwanda?”  That incident underscores the journey that Power, 40, has
made from outsider to White House aide with a voice at the
center of discussions over how far the U.S. should go to protect
civilians from repressive regimes.  Obama had come under fire from Republicans and Democrats on
 Capitol Hill  and allies in  Europe  and the Mideast for not taking
swift action to aid Qaddafi’s opponents in Libya.  In White House meetings, Power, a public advocate of
government efforts to halt human rights abuses before she joined
the administration, pressed for U.S. intervention on
humanitarian grounds, according to people involved in the
discussions who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Pressing on Libya  She played a role, along with Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations  Susan Rice  and
other NSC advisers, in convincing Obama to push for a UN
Security Council resolution to authorize a coalition military
force to protect Libyan civilians. Other administration figures
were concerned about the effectiveness of a no-fly zone and
differences within NATO over what Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
warned would be a “big operation.”  The U.S.-commanded military campaign, now in its seventh
day, has neutralized Qaddafi’s air defenses and pummeled his
ground forces attacking rebel strongholds.  Power, who sought the limelight as a writer and public
intellectual, has learned to be a behind-the-scenes policymaker
over the past two years, associates say.  The transition wasn’t seamless. As an Obama adviser during
the 2008 presidential campaign, Power learned what it was like
to be on the other side of the notebook when a Scottish
journalist reported that she referred to  Hillary Clinton ,
Obama’s main opponent for the Democratic nomination, as a
“monster.” Power apologized and resigned from the campaign.  Repairing Relations  After Obama’s victory, he named her to the National
Security Council. Friends say she has worked to repair her
relationship with Clinton, and three weeks ago accompanied her
on a trip to Geneva for a human rights conference.  Power, who declined to be interviewed, came into the
administration with a reputation as an intellectual star who was
also adept at self-promotion.  “Journalists are by their nature publicity-hounds,”
Galbraith said. “You write a book and you do everything you can
to promote the book and the arguments, especially when you’re an
advocacy journalist,” he said. She is no longer a journalist
and plays a different role as a public official, he said.  At the same time, after Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak 
stepped down, there were media stories touting her role in
turning Obama around to stronger support for the protesters. In
the past several days, she has been portrayed as one of the
leading advocates for the Libyan intervention.  Target for Conservatives  Power has been targeted by some conservatives, who see her
ideology and influence on the president as troubling.  Her ideas “impinge significantly on national
sovereignty,” said  Stanley Kurtz , a senior fellow at the Ethics
and Public Policy Center in  Washington . Allowing international
organizations to call for interventions because of alleged war
crimes “cuts against America’s own ability to make decisions to
go to war.”  In her writings, Power has endorsed the use of limited
military force to achieve humanitarian ends, in cases such as
Bosnia and  Rwanda . Yet she opposed the war in  Iraq , in part,
because the U.S. didn’t make an issue of  Saddam Hussein ’s human
rights record.  “By parallel reasoning, she ought to oppose the attack on
Libya -- since we didn’t protest Qaddafi’s domestic abuses
previously,” said  Jeremy Rabkin , a professor at  George Mason
University  and a member of the U.S. Institute of Peace.  Supporters say Power is advocating a foreign policy based
on morality and universal rights, and that she has managed to
translate her ideals into the world of policy and politics.  Mirroring Obama Shift  Her career as a public intellectual thrived while she ran a
human rights center at  Harvard University , published award-
winning writings and appeared in documentary films. In the last
two years, associates say, she has learned instead to duck the
spotlight.  Tom Malinowski, a former senior director at the NSC under
President  Bill Clinton  who has participated in recent NSC
advisory meetings over North Africa, said the shift Power has
made “is not all that different from the transition that  Barack
Obama  and many members of his administration have made.”  They went from “being idealists with a vision of what
government should do to being the managers of a government that
in fact is limited in what it is able to do,” he said.  Born in Dublin, Power moved to Atlanta as a child before
heading off to  Yale University , where she has said she was more
interested in sports than human rights.  Images From Bosnia  The television images from Bosnia changed her outlook, and
after working at a policy research group in Washington, she
packed for the Balkans to cover the conflict, writing for the
Boston Globe, the Washington Post and the Economist.  In the fall of 1996, she enrolled at  Harvard Law School ,
where a research paper eventually turned into her first book,
“A Problem from Hell: America and the Age of Genocide,” which
won the Pulitzer Prize for general nonfiction in 2003.  The book was an indictment of a weak U.S. response to
conflicts that claimed countless civilian lives. She also wrote
a September 2001 article for Atlantic magazine that contained a
harsh judgment of one person with whom she works closely today:
UN Ambassador Rice.  In the article, Rice, who was an NSC Africa adviser during
the 1994 Rwanda genocide, is portrayed as being more interested
in the effect of a military intervention on the congressional
midterm elections.  Humanitarian Intervention  Today, Rice and Power -- along with deputy national
security adviser  Ben Rhodes , NSC senior director Gayle Smith,
and the council’s director for human rights Jeremy Weinstein --
form the core of a White House group that has argued the case
for humanitarian intervention, according to people who have
participated in the discussions.  Romeo Dallaire, the commander of UN forces in Rwanda during
the genocide and now a Canadian senator, called Power “a force
to reckon with.”  Power has seized her “opportunity to get inside the system
and actually influence it,” he said.  Malinowski, who was a chief foreign policy speechwriter for
Bill Clinton, said it would be wrong to attribute more influence
to Power than she has as one of many policy advisers.  As an NSC adviser “you participate in policy debate,
alongside many other people,” Malinowski said. “Your job is to
give the president the information he needs. But he, and not
Samantha Power or anyone else, is the decider.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  