-- 
Sarkozy Urges Qaddafi Loyalists to Abandon Dictator, Join Libya Opposition

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-03-25T15:22:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/sarkozy-urges-qaddafi-loyalists-to-abandon-dictator-join-libya-opposition.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
urged followers of  Muammar Qaddafi  to abandon his “murderous
ways” and join the opposition, opening a diplomatic front
against the Libyan leader as allied jets pounded his military.  “We must hasten the decomposition of the system and the
entourage of Qaddafi by telling them there’s a way to get out,”
Sarkozy said today in Brussels after a European Union summit.
“Those who abandon Qaddafi in his crazy and murderous ways can
join in the reconstruction of a new, democratic Libya.”  Sarkozy spoke as French and British aircraft struck
Qaddafi’s ground forces for a seventh day, as NATO agreed to
take command of the United Nations-imposed Libyan no-fly zone.
While allied leaders have said their aim was preventing attacks
on civilians, Sarkozy’s comments underscored their desire to see
Qaddafi fall.  “The allies are hoping there’ll be an internal strike
against Qaddafi,” Mats Berdal, a professor in the Department of
War Studies at King’s College in  London , said in an interview.
“Either with Qaddafi killed or some kind of deal that will see
massive defections.”  U.K. and French leaders are preparing a diplomatic proposal
before a March 29 meeting in London of foreign ministers from
countries participating in the campaign, Sarkozy said, adding
that he was representatives from the Libyan opposition council
to attend.  A French jet destroyed an artillery battery in the central
town of Ajdabiya, French Admiral Edouard Guillaud said on  France 
Info radio. British Tornado jets carried out missile strikes on
armored vehicles threatening Ajdabiya, where rebels were routed
earlier this month, the U.K. Defense Ministry said today. Al
Arabiya television reported heavy fighting near the city.  “ Libya ’s air space is under control,” said Guillaud, the
chief of France’s defense staff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Brussels at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  