-- 
Scene Last Night: Richard Parsons, John Mahoney, Joanna Rose's 651 Quilts

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-03-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/scene-last-night-richard-parsons-john-mahoney-joanna-rose-s-651-quilts.html
The towering display of quilts in
the Drill Hall of the Park Avenue Armory Thursday night managed
to dwarf even the 6-foot-4 frame of  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chairman
Richard D. Parsons.  “You can do things with space,” Parsons said.  He sat on a red chair at one end of the 50,000-square-foot
hall and gazed at 651 red-and-white quilts suspended in the air,
draped on chairs and laid flat.  The gala was for the benefit of the  American Folk Art
Museum , and the quilts came from the collection of Joanna S.
Rose. Many guests dressed to coordinate: There were red-and-
white checkered garden gloves, Jimmy Choo red-satin heels, and a
sprinkling of rubies and diamonds.  “The shoes are my naughty shoes,” Stacey Hollander, the
museum’s chief curator, said about the cardinal-red open-toed
shoes fastened to her ankles with red laces and revealing
matching toenail polish.  Tony Calabrese, who works in finance, wore red corduroys by
Bonobos, which he bought for the occasion.  “It’s baseball-stitch red,” said the former minor-league
baseball player.  “I missed the memo about the dress code,” said Parsons,
who was wearing a navy suit. His wife, Laura, the chairman of
the museum, wore a white dress.  Cornelia Guest, the event’s caterer, wore black.  “Had I worn white, going in and out of the kitchen, well,
I would have looked like a Messy Marvin,” Guest said.  Lobster Newberg  The meal featured watercress and leek soup paired with
Louis Jadot Macon-Villages 2009. When the Lobster Newburg
arrived, waiters poured Morgon Chateau des Lumieres Cote du Py
2006. Strawberries and cream and vegan chocolate-chip cookies
were served in the Tiffany Room with Grand Enclos Chateau de
Cerons 2005.  The only wrinkle was that Rose, the quilt collector
extraordinaire, didn’t stay longer. After a quick tour at the
start of cocktails, she departed, leaving others to marvel at
her acquisitions, which will blanket the armory through March
30.  “It’s visually stunning,” said Goldman Sachs partner John
Mahoney.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or
amandagordon on  http://twitter.com/amandagordon .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 