-- 
SEC Sues Petters Connecticut Feeder Fund, Manager Over Alleged Fraud

-- B y   B e t h   H a w k i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-25T00:50:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/sec-sues-petters-feeder-fund-manager-for-disgorgement-of-gains-from-fraud.html
A Connecticut hedge fund and its
manager were sued by the Securities and Exchange Commission for
disgorgement of gains made while sending hundreds of millions of
investors’ dollars to fraud scheme operator  Thomas Petters .  The SEC complaint was filed today against Marlon Quan and
his Greenwich, Connecticut-based Acorn Capital Group LLC. The
complaint also names as a defendant Stewardship Investment
Advisors LLC, another firm controlled by Quan.  Quan “funneled hundreds of millions of dollars to Thomas
Petters and his notorious  Ponzi scheme ” from 2001 through 2008,
taking in more than $459 million from about 165 people and
sending most of it to Petters entities, according to the
complaint in federal court in  Minneapolis .  Petters is serving a 50-year federal prison sentence after
being found guilty in December 2009 of running the $3.5 billion
scam. He was convicted of bilking hundreds of investors who
thought they were financing short-term transactions involving
consumer electronics that Petters said were destined for big-box
retailers.  Quan concealed evidence of Petters’s fraud, including by
engaging in $187 million in “round-trip” transactions designed
to hide the scheme, the SEC said.  Phones at Acorn Capital Management weren’t answered today
and Quan couldn’t immediately be located for comment. Robert
Gottlieb, a Manhattan attorney who represented Quan and Acorn in
a 2008 lawsuit, said today they are no longer his clients.  During the fraud, Quan pocketed $90 million in fees, said
Peter Chan, an SEC assistant regional director for the Chicago
Region, in a phone interview. The agency is seeking disgorgement
of at least that sum together with an order freezing Quan’s
assets, including a $14 million payment he is slated to receive
from the Petters’s receivership as early as tomorrow, according
to Chan and the complaint.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Quan, 11-cv-00723, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota
(Minneapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Hawkins in  St. Paul , Minnesota, at 
 hawkins@visi.com ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  