-- 
Securitizers, Lenders Said to Get Risk-Retention Options in Plan

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-03-25T21:55:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/securitizers-lenders-said-to-get-risk-retention-options-in-plan.html
U.S. regulators will give banks and
bond issuers four ways to comply with new rules that force firms
to retain some risk in loans they securitize, according to two
people involved in the process.  The draft plan calls for companies to keep a 5 percent
stake in the loans, as mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, the
people said, speaking on condition of anonymity because the rule
isn’t public. The added risk is designed to give banks a reason
to keep lending standards high and head off defaults like the
ones that triggered the 2008 financial crisis.  The measure applies to credit-card balances,  student loans ,
auto leases, residential and commercial mortgages and other
securitized debt. Banks, auto-loan financiers and other lenders
had sought flexibility in meeting the requirement. The proposal
will ask for comment on whether the approaches are equitable,
said one of the persons.  Presenting a set of guidelines “alleviates regulators from
having to prescribe rules for every single asset class,” said
 Tom Deutsch , executive director of the American Securitization
Forum in  New York .  The proposal would allow lenders to retain a 5 percent
stake in every piece of a security, known as a vertical slice,
or a 5 percent stake of the riskiest tranche, known as a
horizontal slice. It also would permit some combination of the
two, such as allowing lenders and issuers to keep a 2.5 percent
horizontal and a 2.5 percent vertical piece. Another option
allows companies to own a sample of loans from the pool.  Asset Classes  “We believe the agencies, in preparing the draft
regulation, should analyze the situation asset class by asset
class and provide tailored flexibility,” said Andrew D.
Koblenz, vice president of legal and regulatory affairs at the
National Automobile Dealers Association in McLean, Virginia.  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. is scheduled to sign
off on the draft on Tuesday. The Securities and Exchange
Commission may vote Wednesday.  The risk-retention rule is designed to raise the quality of
asset-backed securities such as mortgage bonds by keeping
companies invested in the loans they make. Lax underwriting on
subprime mortgages that were pooled and sold in bulk as
securities helped fuel the 2008 credit crunch.  Agencies including the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency, Department of Housing and Urban Development and the
Federal Reserve Board must sign off on the draft rule, which
could be published as soon as next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 