-- 
Senators Facing Re-Election Squeeze to Shape the Terms of U.S. Budget Deal

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-03-25T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/senators-facing-re-election-squeeze-to-shape-the-terms-of-u-s-budget-deal.html
U.S. Senator  Richard Lugar ’s Tea
Party-backed challenger for the 2012 Republican primary calls
the six-term Indianan a “liberal” on the budget. Democrats
accuse him of standing with conservative “extremists.”  Democratic Senator  Joe Manchin  opposed his own party’s
spending plan as well as the Republicans’, then threatened to
vote against raising the U.S. debt ceiling unless somebody shows
him a plan for tackling deficits.  As they embark on 2012 re-election campaigns, both men are
seeking a budget stance they can defend amid pressure from Tea
Party activists on one side and self-described progressives on
the other. To reach a deal, congressional leaders need votes
from politically vulnerable senators like them, which hands them
outsized power to shape the plan.  “Party leaders want to protect their most vulnerable
members, so the goal should be a budget that those who are up
for re-election can support,” said Darrell M. West, director of
governance studies at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington.
“That will push the compromise toward the middle, because most
of those states are politically competitive.”  At the same time, “elections push members to their base,
so Republicans are going to be under pressure from the Tea Party
and Democrats will be feeling heat from liberals,” West said.  Republicans and Democrats are stalemated over funding the
government through Sept. 30, with a shutdown looming if they
don’t agree before current spending authority expires April 8.
The Republican-led House passed a $1.2 trillion spending bill
that would cut $61 billion and make policy changes to gut the
health-care law and environmental rules and defund Planned
Parenthood, which provides abortions.  60 Votes  Democrats propose about $10 billion in reductions and
demand that the policy directives be removed. The Senate,
controlled by Democrats 53-47, needs 60 votes to pass a budget.  In 2012, Senate Democrats will defend 23 seats while
Republicans have just 10 in play. Democrats facing election
challenges are calling for more spending cuts and a broader
deficit-cutting plan than their party leaders have proposed.  Manchin, of  West Virginia , this week became the first
Democrat to announce he won’t back raising the $14.3 trillion
debt limit -- a step Congress must take as early as May to avoid
a default -- without a plan to reduce the deficit.  Reaching a budget deal “will be partisan and difficult,”
Manchin said during a March 21 speech in Charleston. “Everyone
will have to give up something, and no one will want to
relinquish anything.”  Six Democrats  He was one of 11 members of the Senate Democratic caucus,
six of them up for re-election in 2012, to oppose his party’s
spending proposal this month as well as the Republican plan.  Another of the six, Senator Claire McCaskill of  Missouri ,
also called for a middle-ground deal.  “We’re going to have to get serious about compromise,”
McCaskill said in a March 17 statement before  voting  for the
latest stopgap spending bill. “Cuts have to be made, but they
must be done so in a responsible way.”  Republican strategists say Democrats in swing states --
including Manchin, McCaskill,  Montana ’s Jon Tester,  Florida ’s
 Bill Nelson  and  Nebraska ’s  Ben Nelson  -- have a dilemma.  “A number of these so-called moderates are in a very
precarious situation: Do you continue the status quo of
Washington spending, or do you finally take a position on
reining it in?” said  Brian Walsh , a spokesman for the Senate
Republicans'  campaign committee .  MoveOn  The political action group MoveOn.org is pressing Democrats
to dig in against the Republicans. The group aired a television
this month that accused Republicans of waging war on the middle
class and asked: “The only question is, will the Democrats stop
them?”  “Going along with a budget that would cut financial aid
for 8 million people and destroy hundreds of thousands of jobs
is totally unacceptable,” Justin Ruben, MoveOn.org executive
director, said in an interview. “Our focus is really trying to
stiffen the Democrats’ spines.”  Republicans, too, face competing pressures. Lugar, running
for his seventh six-year term in  Indiana , and  Olympia Snowe  of
 Maine , seeking her fourth, are being criticized by Tea Party-
supported challengers charging they hedged on their support for
deep cuts. Meantime the Democratic Senatorial  Campaign Committee 
said Lugar sided with “extremists” in voting this month for
the $1.2 trillion House measure.  Lugar’s Republican challenger, state Treasurer Richard Mourdock, attacked him for initially saying he would oppose the
bill and then changing course to vote “yes.”  ‘Liberal Instincts’  “Senator Lugar’s vacillation betrays his liberal
instincts,” Mourdock said in a statement.  Senator  Patty Murray  of  Washington , leader of the
Democratic campaign committee, said Republicans who support the
House spending reductions will lose support at home.  “Over time it really hurts people,” Murray said in an
interview. “They’ve voted for these cuts that were really
irresponsible, and I think they’re going to own that.”  Former Representative Tom Andrews, a Maine Democrat who
unsuccessfully challenged Snowe before, wrote in an opinion
piece in the Portland Press-Herald that she “has apparently
decided that it is better to bow to political pressure from the
Tea Party movement than to stand up for the interests of
Maine.”  Snowe and Lugar say they aren’t caving in to political
influence. Asked if he felt pressure to back the Republican
cuts, Lugar said, “none particularly.”  ‘Right Thing’  “I’m always concerned about anybody who’s eyeing me.
That’s always going to be the case -- we’re in a political
environment,” Snowe said. “The key is doing the right thing.”  It isn’t always clear what that is. Republican Senator
 Scott Brown , seeking his first full term in traditionally
Democratic Massachusetts, said this week he supports federal
money for Planned Parenthood although he voted for the spending
bill that proposed defunding it.  “The proposal to eliminate all funding for family planning
goes too far,” Brown said in a March 22 statement. “As we
continue with our budget negotiations, I hope we can find a
compromise that is reasonable and appropriate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva@bloomberg.net  