-- 
Shoppers in Asia Avoid Japanese Food Products on Concerns About Radiation

-- B y   B i l l y   C h a n   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-03-25T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/shoppers-in-asia-avoid-japanese-food-products-on-concerns-about-radiation.html
Shoppers in  Hong Kong ,  Singapore 
and Sydney are shunning Japanese food products in supermarkets
amid concerns about radiation.  “Before the earthquake I bought Japanese food produce
almost every day, especially Japanese onions, which are my
favorite,” said Yuko Kojima, 40, as she searched the frozen
food aisles of the APITA grocery and department store in Hong
Kong. “Now I’m buying more food imported from Korea,  Australia 
and  New Zealand .”  Across Asia shoppers are questioning the safety of food
from Japan after cobalt, iodine and cesium were found in the sea
near the stricken Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant north of
Tokyo. The shoppers, including Japanese living abroad, are
taking their cue from governments that have started restricting
food imports from  Japan  on fears of radioactive contamination.  For May Saito, a 36-year-old mother of two, concerns about
radiation mean she’s scrutinizing the origin of food from Japan
by reading labels more closely.  “These days I pay much more attention to the prefecture
information on the package label,” the Tokyo native said as she
selected a cabbage at APITA after examining a label on its
packaging. “Last week I bought four packs of seaweed that will
be good for a whole month. Usually I just buy two.”  Expat Shopping  Supermarkets throughout Asia catering to expatriates with
everything from sweets to sauces, Japanese-grown rice and fizzy
drinks are at the center of consumers’ concerns. For some
shoppers, the fallout from the March 11 quake is yet to come.  “Most of the stuff that’s here now, they import at least a
month in advance so at the moment, it’s fine,” said Chikako
Airey, 46, as she browsed the shelves of the  Tokyo  Mart grocery
store in Sydney’s northern suburbs. “In a month it may be
different but I don’t think it will have a big impact.”  Singapore and Australia joined the U.S. and Hong Kong in
restricting food imports from Japan this week. Singapore
suspended imports of  milk products , fruit and vegetables, meat
and seafood from six prefectures. Authorities found radioactive
contaminants in vegetables that were as much as three times
higher than prescribed limits. Australia said it would place a
“holding order” on some products from four prefectures.  “If I went to Japan I would worry about the food, but here
it’s better,” Tokyo native Masayo Ochiai, 37, who has a five-
year-old daughter and is expecting her second child, said at the
 Meidi-Ya Japanese supermarket  in Singapore.  “Sometimes I choose Japanese food, but if it comes from
Fukushima or Miyagi, I don’t want to buy it,” said Ochiai, who
has lived in Singapore for four years. “The Japanese government
said it’s safe, but I cannot believe it. I’m pregnant now, so
want to be more careful about food.”  Dangerous Radiation  Dangerous radiation levels, fires and explosions at four of
the six reactors at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant have hampered
repair work since March 11 when Japan’s strongest-ever
earthquake and the tsunami it triggered cut power at the plant.
The number of deaths and missing following the quake had reached
27,509 as of 3 p.m. yesterday, according to the  National Police
Agency  in Tokyo.  Japan has restricted shipments of milk, spinach and other
vegetables from Fukushima and neighboring prefectures.  “I’m just getting some strawberries today,” said Reiko
Toyama, 38, as she left the APITA store in Hong Kong. “I’ll be
more concerned about leafy vegetables from certain areas in
Japan and may shift to produce from Korea for a while.”  Japan’s health ministry asked prefectural governors last
week to test agricultural and marine food products for possible
contamination.  The ministry has tentatively set tolerable levels of
radioactivity for each product. For fish, the level is set at
500 becquerels per kilogram of radioactive cesium and 100
becquerels per kilogram of uranium. Japan’s Food Safety
Commission is assessing the standards for possible revision as
early as the coming week.  ‘Very Nervous’  Stores and restaurants across  Asia  have dropped Japanese
food from shelves and menus after the nation’s government halted
spinach shipments and told residents around the stricken nuclear
plant not to drink tap water.  “I’m very nervous about the food problem after the
earthquake,” said Kojima, who has a 10-year-old daughter and
has lived in Hong Kong for a decade. “Two things will come to
my mind now whenever I’m shopping for Japanese fresh food: which
area is it from and how is it prepared?”  Japan exported 481 billion yen ($6 billion) of food last
year, accounting for 0.7 percent of total exports, the Ministry
of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries said on its website. In
2009, more than 70 percent of Japan’s food exports went to Hong
Kong, the U.S.,  China ,  Taiwan  and South  Korea , according to the
Japan External Trade Organization.  “In future, I’ll look at the date (on packages) to see
when they were made and would consider not buying if they were
made after the earthquake,” said Margharita Sumberac, 69, as
she shopped at Sydney’s Tokyo Mart with her daughter, Tanya.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Billy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 bchan101@bloomberg.net ;
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at   gturk2@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  