-- 
South Africa Bonds Gain for 6th Day as Rate Held at 30-Year Low

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-03-25T15:26:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/south-africa-bonds-gain-for-sixth-day-as-interest-rate-held-at-30-year-low.html
South Africa ’s government bonds
rallied for a sixth day, the longest winning streak in more than
a month, after the central bank left borrowing costs at a 30-
year low. The rand strengthened for a second day.  The government’s 57 billion rand ($8.3 billion) of 13.5
percent bonds due in 2015 rose 7 cents to 121.31 rand, pushing
the yield down 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to a
three-week low of 7.75 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg as of 5 p.m. in Johannesburg. The yield has fallen 16
basis points in the past six days.  Investors are paring bets that the central bank will raise
its benchmark rate this year after policy makers led by Governor
Gill Marcus left the repo rate at 5.5 percent yesterday, saying
the need to aid a recovery in  Africa ’s largest economy
outweighed the risk of inflation from higher food and oil
prices. Forward-rate agreements for December dropped 5 basis
points to 6.31 percent, declining from 6.63 percent three weeks
ago.  “The  Reserve Bank  is not going to be spooked by inflation
just yet,” Andre Roux, who helps oversee about $8 billion in
emerging-market debt at Investec Asset Management, said in an
interview at his  Cape Town  office.  South Africa sold the smallest amount of inflation-linked
bonds this year at today’s auction, the third weekly sale at
which the amount allocated was below that offered this year.
Investors bought 360 million rand of the 600 million rand on
offer, the Pretoria-based central bank said on its Bloomberg
page.  Rand Rally  The lower demand may be a sign investor concern about
inflation is waning, Roux said. Marcus “is really a growth
bear, and that is their main focus, no question,” he said.  The rand strengthened on optimism stronger growth will
boost demand for South African stocks and bonds. Growth
accelerated to an annualized 4.4 percent in the fourth quarter
from 2.7 percent in the previous three months as mining and
manufacturing output rebounded, the statistics office said on
Feb. 22.  Foreign investors, which were net sellers of South African
bonds so far this year, bought a net 3 billion rand of the
country’s debt yesterday, according to JSE Ltd., owner of the
 Johannesburg Stock Exchange .  The rand appreciated 0.3 percent to 6.8477, bringing its
gain this week to 2.2 percent, the best performance out of more
than 20 emerging-market currencies monitored by Bloomberg. It
traded 0.6 percent stronger at 9.6823 per euro.  “Portfolio inflows through the course of the next few
weeks may very well lend some support” to the rand, Tradition
Analytics researchers led by Johannesburg-based Quinten
Bertenshaw said in an e-mailed research report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  