-- 
South Africa Stocks Significantly Overvalued as Metals Jump, Investec Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-03-25T16:14:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/south-africa-stocks-significantly-overvalued-as-metals-jump-investec-says.html
South African stocks are
“significantly overvalued” after a surge in metal prices
boosted companies including  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  BHP Billiton
Plc (BIL) , according to Investec Asset Management,  South Africa ’s
largest independent money manager.  Anglo American, the diversified mining company that makes
up 11 percent of South  Africa ’s benchmark stock index, rose 26
percent since the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2010,
beating the 7.4 percent return for the index.  BHP Billiton 
climbed 17 percent.  “I’ll say the market will struggle from here on,” Sam Houlie, who oversees about 120 billion rand ($17.5 billion) as
head of South African equities at Investec, said in an interview
at his Cape Town office. “I’m looking for places to hide
because I think the market is over-extended.”  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index has advanced 42 percent
since March 2009. Miners account for 35 percent of the shares,
including London-based Anglo American and BHP Billiton, and
Johannesburg-based Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. and African
Rainbow Minerals Ltd., according to stock exchange data. The
rally in metals, spurred by  China ’s 9.8 percent economic growth
last year, may have run its course, Houlie said.  Investec is avoiding Anglo American and BHP Billiton and
stocks that led the rally including Cape Town-based  Naspers
Ltd. (NPN) , Africa’s biggest media company, Cie. Financiere Richemont
SA, the world’s largest jewellery maker, based in Zug,
Switzerland, and London-based  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the second-biggest
brewer by volume.  MTN, Harmony Gain  “The top stocks will struggle, but stocks that are lagging
will struggle less,” Houlie said. “There is a great contrarian
opportunity in avoiding the market leadership.”  South Africa’s index is valued at 11.6 times this year’s
estimated earnings for the component companies, higher than the
multiple of 11.5 for the benchmark MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  The rand, which has gained 8.6 percent against the dollar
in the past year, is poised to weaken, spurring gains for
companies that have lagged behind the index because they earn
revenue overseas, according to Houlie.  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s biggest mobile-phone company,
based in Johannesburg, climbed 7.4 percent since the beginning
of the fourth quarter. MTN, which earns most of its revenue
outside South Africa, is “20 to 40 percent undervalued at
current levels,” according to Houlie.  Harmony Gold  Harmony Gold Mining Co., Africa’s third largest gold miner,
sells its gold for dollars though its costs are mostly in rand
as the mines are in South Africa. Harmony surged 12 percent
yesterday on speculation after  RBC Capital Markets  upgraded the
stock to “outperform” because it may become a takeover target.
The company was among Houlies’s top two picks, he said in the
interview yesterday.  Aeon Investment Management considers South African stocks
as fairly value, chief investment officer Asief Mohamed said.
Its recommended shares include Anglo American, Impala, MTN,
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd., Africa’s largest gold producer, and
Capitec Bank Holdings Ltd., a provider of loans not backed by
assets. The Cape Town-based company oversees about 800 million
rand in assets.  “ We prefer an exposure to equities in the current
environment” rather than bonds, Mohamed said in an interview in
 Cape Town  today. “We are maintaining our positions. There is
nothing that’s pushing us” to disinvest from any particular
industry, he said.  The ongoing expansion of the Chinese and Indian economies
should continue to support the price of platinum,  iron ore  and
other metals, Mohammed said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Gavin Serkin
at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 