-- 
South Africa Says Czech Fugitive Krejcir Will Appear in Court on March 28

-- B y   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n
-- 
2011-03-25T15:35:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/south-africa-says-czech-fugitive-krejcir-to-appear-in-court-march-28.html
Radovan Krejcir, who is wanted by
the Czech authorities on charges of  tax fraud  and conspiracy to
commit murder, will appear at the Johannesburg magistrate court
on March 28 after he handed himself over to the South African
police today.  “He will be facing a charge of fraud,” McIntosh Polela,
spokesman for South Africa’s Hawks investigative unit, said in
an interview today. The charge relates to a 4.5 million rand
($657,000) insurance claim made last year, he said. A urologist
admitted he falsely diagnosed cancer in Krejcir so the insurance
claim could be paid, Beeld newspaper  reported  on March 16.  Krejcir, who is fighting extradition to the  Czech Republic ,
“is being held at an undisclosed location as the police fear
there might be retaliation,” Polela said. Krejcir will be
questioned over the murder of alleged crime boss Cyril Beeka,
who was killed in a drive-by shooting in  Cape Town  this week, he
said.  A March 22 raid on Krejcir’s home in Johannesburg revealed
an alleged hit list of four names with Beeka’s name at the top
of the list, Polela said.  Polela wouldn’t comment on whether Krejcir will be
questioned about the murders of Lolly Jackson, the owner of
South Africa’s Teazers strip clubs who was shot dead in May, or
Uwe Gembella, a German businessman whose body was found wrapped
in cellophane in October.  Lamborghini Seized  The South African Revenue Service seized a Lamborghini and
a Ferrari from Krejcir’s Johannesburg house this week, the South
African Press Association reported, citing Adrian Lackay, a
spokesman for SARS.  In 2005 Krejcir escaped Czech police through a secret
tunnel while his house on the outskirts of  Prague  was being
searched. He moved to the Seychelles and arrived in  South Africa 
in 2007.  The authorities in the Czech Republic will probably try and
extradite Krejcir because he is a wanted criminal there, Polela
said.  Polela did not respond to a request for the contact details
of Krejcir’s lawyers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren van der Westhuizen in Cape Town at 
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 