-- 
Spain, Netherlands Remain Perfect With Euro 2012 Soccer Qualifying Wins

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-03-25T23:19:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/spain-netherlands-remain-perfect-with-euro-2012-soccer-qualifying-wins.html
Spain rallied to beat the  Czech
Republic  2-1 and the Netherlands defeated Hungary 4-0 to remain
perfect in qualifying for soccer’s 2012 European Championship.  David Villa  scored twice in a four-minute span of the
second half last night to give World Cup and defending European
champion Spain the home win against the Czech Republic, which
got a 29th-minute goal from Jaroslav Plasil. Spain’s fourth
straight win moves it six points ahead of the Czechs in Group I.  Rafael van der Vaart, Ibrahim Afellay,  Dirk Kuyt  and Robin van Persie scored as the Netherlands won in Budapest. A fifth
consecutive victory gives the Dutch 15 points, six more than
Hungary in Group E.  France and  Italy  also won to stay unbeaten as qualifying
resumed after a five-month break.  Philippe Mexes and Yoann Gourcuff scored in France’s 2-0
win in Luxembourg. The win moves France four points ahead of
Belarus in Group D.  Thiao Motta’s goal in the 73rd minute gave Italy the
victory in Slovenia. Italy tops Group C with 13 points, six more
than Slovenia and Serbia.  Marko Pantelic and Zoran Tosic scored in the second half as
Serbia beat Northern Ireland 2-1 before a near-empty stadium in
Belgrade.  Only 265 visiting fans were in the 55,000-seat Red Star
Stadium as European soccer’s governing body UEFA banned Serbian
supporters as punishment for crowd violence that forced a
qualifier in Italy in October to be abandoned.  Axel Witsel scored both goals as  Belgium  beat Austria 2-0
in Vienna. The win leaves the teams tied for second in Group A
behind Germany.  The winner in each of the nine groups, along with the
second-place team with the most points, qualify for Euro 2012
with hosts Poland and Ukraine. The remaining eight second-place
teams will play off for the final four spots.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 