-- 
Swap Trades, Australian Mortgages, Drugmakers, Google Probes: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-03-25T12:23:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/swap-trades-australian-mortgages-drugmakers-google-probes-compliance.html
CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  and  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  may create venues for derivatives that now trade over
the counter to capitalize on proposed rules designed to bring
more transparency to the $583 trillion market.  The exchange operators may form swap-trading platforms for
privately negotiated derivatives that the government plans to
move onto regulated trading systems or exchanges that will
provide public data about prices and transactions, according to
interviews with company executives during the past week. Most of
the contracts are now traded between broker-dealers over the
phone or through private electronic systems.  Congress last year ordered that most standardized OTC
derivatives in the U.S. be guaranteed by clearinghouses and
traded on exchanges or swap-execution facilities, also known as
SEFs, after a 100-fold surge in trading of credit-default
contracts over seven years made oversight of the financial
system more difficult. Regulators are now writing rules for the
swap platforms and the products that will be traded on them.  Derivatives sent to clearinghouses must trade on SEFs or
exchanges, according to the  Dodd-Frank Act  approved last year.
The global market for such transactions was $583 trillion as of
June, according to the Basel-based Bank for International
Settlements.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Australia  Introduces Legislation to Stop Mortgage Signaling  Australia introduced legislation to stop banks from
signaling future mortgage rate increases to each other as
 Treasurer  Wayne Swan intensifies efforts to rein in the nation’s
four biggest banks.  The  Australian Competition & Consumer Commission  has found
“strong evidence” that banks have been engaging in such
behavior and that price flagging is designed to undermine
competition, Swan said in a  statement  yesterday.  Swan’s proposal follows public anger after  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia (CBA) ,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,  National Australia
Bank Ltd. (NAB)  and  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  raised
 interest rates  by more than the central bank in November.
Together, they control more than 80 percent of the home-loan
market.  Australia’s banks have rejected claims of price signaling
as “unfounded” and have urged the government against the move.  Lenders objected to the price-signaling laws because they
“will make it more difficult for banks to explain to customers
what may happen with the direction of interest rates on
mortgages and savings,” the  Australian Bankers Association  said
Dec. 12, when the ban was proposed by Swan.  KKR Received Request From SEC in Sovereign Wealth Fund Probe  KKR & Co., the private-equity firm founded by Henry R.
Kravis and George R. Roberts, said it received a request from
U.S. regulators for information about the company’s dealings
with sovereign wealth funds.  KKR received the Securities and Exchange Commission request
in January and is cooperating with the agency’s investigation,
the New York-based firm said in a March 7 regulatory filing. The
SEC sought information regarding “investors and clients that
are sovereign wealth funds and certain services provided by
KKR,” according to the filing.  The SEC launched a probe this year to determine whether
financial firms made improper payments to placement agents to
secure investments from sovereign wealth funds, investment pools
drawn from a country’s reserves, according to people with
knowledge of the probe.  An agent working with a sovereign wealth fund may be
considered a government official, making interactions with that
person subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  Drugmakers May Foot Bill for More Frequent Factory Inspections  Brand-name drugmakers may start paying fees of as much as
$30,000 for plant inspections by U.S. regulators under a funding
plan from manufacturers of generic medicines.  The  Generic Pharmaceutical Association  proposed that its
members and brand-name makers share the cost of beefing up
surveillance of domestic and international plants, said Heather
Bresch, president of Mylan Inc., the biggest U.S. maker of
generics. The plan was offered in talks with the Food and Drug
Administration in late February, she said.  FDA inspections are currently funded by taxpayers. New fees
to increase the frequency would come on top of the $856 million
brand-name producers  pay  a year for FDA product reviews.  Sandy Walsh, an FDA spokeswoman, said it was too early for
the agency to comment on specific proposals.  For more, click here.  EU May Propose Fixes in April to Shield CO2 Market From Fraud  The European Union may propose regulatory changes as soon
as next month to boost security in its emissions-trading system
and restore investors’ trust after a string of thefts and fraud.  The  European Commission , supervisor of the carbon cap-and-
trade program that includes more than 11,000 utilities and
manufacturers, is working to modify the rules for registries
that track emission permits, said Yvon Slingenberg, head of the
emissions-trading unit. The EU is tightening security after
criminals illegally transferred allowances valued at about 60
million euros ($85 million) from registries in at least five
countries during the past year.  The EU will discuss a 48-hour delay to provide extra time
for the transfer of permits between user accounts in registries,
a person with knowledge of the matter said last month.
Slingenberg said the commission is still assessing the final
shape of the mechanism.  EU to Seek Views on Ways to Bolster Corporate Governance  The  European Commission   said  it will seek views on possible
measures to bolster corporate governance at companies in the
region.  The commission said it will publish a consultation paper on
April 5 on possible changes to governance principles in the 27-
nation EU. The deadline for responses will be July 22 and
follow-up measures will be adopted in 2012, it said.  “One of the lessons of the crisis is that corporate
governance, until now usually based on self-regulation, was not
as effective as it could have been,” the Brussels-based
commission said on its website today. A “higher convergence of
corporate governance rules across the EU could facilitate
companies’ activities cross-border and reduce compliance
costs.”  CSRC’s Shang Calls for More Futures Monitoring, Securities Says  China  Securities Regulatory Commission  Chairman  Shang Fulin 
called on the  Shanghai Futures Exchange  to strengthen monitoring
of trading, the Securities Times reported today.  The exchange should ensure that effective measures are in
place to prevent market manipulation and other violations, the
newspaper reported, citing remarks Shang made yesterday at a
ceremony marking the start of lead futures trading in Shanghai.  Compliance Action  European Leaders Meet in Brussels on Rescue, Cut Startup Capital  European Union leaders cut the startup capital for the
future euro emergency aid mechanism after German demands to make
smaller upfront payments stoked fresh concerns about  Europe ’s
effort to quell the debt crisis.  As speculation swirled that Portugal will be the next
victim of the crisis, the leaders bowed to German Chancellor
Angela Merkel’s call to pare the fund’s paid-in capital as of
2013 to 16 billion euros ($23 billion), less than the 40 billion
euros foreseen in a March 21 accord.  “It was a difficult debate with  Germany ,” Luxembourg
Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker told reporters after the
first session of an EU summit in Brussels early today. “Germany
found that in the compromise agreed last Monday it would have to
pay in too much. So we had to tackle that issue.”  For more, click here.  Bloomberg’s  David Tweed  reports from Brussels, where
European leaders are meeting to sign off on measures aimed at
drawing a line under the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  For the video report, click here.  Google Said to Face Possible Ohio, Wisconsin Antitrust Probes  Google Inc. (GOOG) , operator of the world’s biggest search engine,
faces possible antitrust probes by Ohio and Wisconsin over its
business practices, according to a state official and a person
familiar with the matters.  Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine is “evaluating the facts
to determine if it’s something we want to review,” Dan Tierney,
his spokesman, said. In Wisconsin, Attorney General J.B. Van
Hollen is weighing a probe of Google’s bid to buy ITA Software
Inc., according to a person familiar with the matter who
declined to be identified because the process isn’t public. The
U.S. Justice Department is already reviewing the deal.  Officials in Texas, the first state to open its own probe
of Microsoft Corp. in 1997, are also questioning Google.  Adam Kovacevich, a Google spokesman, said the company is
answering inquiries from the Texas attorney general and the
 European Commission , which is investigating whether Google skews
search results to benefit its own services. He declined to
comment on possible action by the states.  Neither the Justice Department nor the Federal Trade
Commission is pursuing a broad antitrust inquiry of Google,
according to people familiar with the agencies. Gina Talamona, a
Justice Department spokeswoman, and FTC spokeswoman Cecelia
Prewett declined to comment on possible investigations of
Google.  For more, click here, click here, and click here.  FSA Said to Review Credit-Default Swaps in Market Abuse Probe  The U.K. Financial Services Authority started a market-
abuse probe into trading of credit-default swaps on corporate
debt, according to four people familiar with the investigation.  The regulator requested information from market
participants to determine whether there’s been insider trading
involving the financial products, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the investigation isn’t public. Last
month, U.S. prosecutors said they would step up probes of
possible fraud involving credit default swaps and collateralized
debt obligations.  The FSA is cracking down on insider trading and has charged
17 defendants in four cases that will go to trial over the next
two years, according to its  business plan . Regulators targeted
swaps trades and short selling during the financial crisis as
companies, banks and governments complained that speculation
undermined the price of securities.  Chris Hamilton, an FSA spokesman, declined to comment. Last
month, a former Dresdner Kleinwort banker, whose deals were the
common thread to a more than yearlong insider-trading probe, was
sentenced to 40 months in jail, the longest prison term for the
crime in the U.K.  For more, click here.  Courts  U.K. Antitrust Regulator’s Cartel Fines Reduced on Appeal  Britain’s antitrust regulator miscalculated fines against
 Galliford Try Plc (GFRD)  and five other construction companies in a
bid-rigging cartel, a U.K. appeals court said in a ruling
cutting their total fines by 76 percent.  The  Office of Fair Trading  erroneously set the fines using
the companies’ revenue from the year before they were issued
instead of the year prior to the cartel’s end, the  Competition
Appeal Tribunal  ruled yesterday in  London . The penalties were
cut to 3.78 million pounds ($6.1 million) from 15.5 million
pounds.  The tribunal also “accepted that the high turnover and low
margin nature of the construction industry was relevant to the
calculation of the penalties,” according to the judgment. The
result was “disproportionate and excessive fines,” it said.  The OFT earlier said it will consider appealing the ruling
to the Court of Appeal.  U.S. Investigating Jefferson County Sewer Deals in Bank Probe  The U.S. Justice Department is investigating sewer
financing by Jefferson County, Alabama, as part of a nationwide
probe of a conspiracy by Wall Street banks to rig bids and fix
prices on derivatives sold to municipalities, according to court
papers.  The disclosure came in a March 21 filing in Birmingham
federal court by Douglas MacFaddin,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
former head of municipal derivatives, in a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission lawsuit.  MacFaddin, who is a target of the Justice Department
antitrust investigation, according to his broker registration
records, was seeking to block a Justice Department request to
delay depositions in the SEC case against him. The judge granted
the government a two-month delay.  Federal officials revealed the county’s involvement in the
investigation to MacFaddin, his lawyers wrote in court papers in
the SEC suit.  Alisa Finelli, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment. David Carrington, the president of the Jefferson
County commission, didn’t immediately return a message seeking
comment.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Charles
E. LeCroy and Douglas W. MacFaddin, 09-CV-02238, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  WPP’s Sorrell to Recommend Relocation of Tax Base to U.K.  WPP Plc (WPP)  Chief Executive Officer Martin Sorrell said in an
e-mail yesterday that he will recommend the world’s largest
advertising company return its tax base to the U.K. from
Ireland, following proposed cuts in Britain’s corporate tax.  WPP, the owner of ad agencies including Young & Rubicam
Inc., Ogilvy & Mather and the Grey Group, left the U.K. for
Ireland in 2008, citing the burden of taxation on foreign
earnings. Media company  United Business Media Ltd. (UBM)  and drugmaker
 Shire Plc (SHP)  also moved their tax bases to Ireland, while another
media company,  Informa Plc (INF) , moved to Switzerland.  Unveiling Britain’s 2011 budget March 23,  Chancellor  George
Osborne indicated he would speed up a cut in corporate tax and
move forward with plans to amend tax on overseas profit of U.K.
companies. Osborne told BBC Radio 4 yesterday that WPP was
planning to move back to the U.K.  He pledged to change “complex rules” for controlled
foreign companies and introduce a 5.75 percent rate on overseas
financing income to make the U.K. competitive and attractive to
multinational companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 