-- 
U.S. May Seek $118 Million in Penalties From Deutsche Bank's Mortgage Unit

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-03-25T19:47:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/u-s-may-seek-118-million-in-penalties-from-deutsche-bank-s-mortgage-unit.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DB) ,  Germany ’s biggest
bank, may face $118 million in U.S. penalties to cover taxpayer
losses on a federally insured apartment loan owned and serviced
by one of the company’s subsidiaries.  The $45.6 million multifamily loan, which was underwritten
in 2003 by another lender and later acquired by the Frankfurt-
based bank, cost U.S. taxpayers $29.8 million in losses to the
Department of Housing and Urban Development’s mortgage insurance
program, according to a report dated yesterday by HUD’s Office
of Inspector General.  HUD investigators said shoddy underwriting and inflated
property and loan values caused the building in the Anacostia
neighborhood of  Washington , D.C., to default in 2009, not the
broader U.S. housing slump that has led to almost $2 trillion in
losses and writedowns at financial firms worldwide. HUD said
civil enforcement actions could total 3 times the amount of
claims paid minus proceeds from a sale of the property, or about
$118 million.  "The underwriter failed to properly assess, as required,
the financial wherewithal of the owner and general contractor,
or the construction capabilities of the general contractor," HUD
said in the report.  Deutsche Bank and its wholly owned subsidiary, Deutsche
Bank Berkshire Mortgage Inc., maintain that neither should be
liable for the mortgage losses since they weren’t responsible
for underwriting the original note, according to a Feb. 8
response to HUD.  Broader Consequences  While Deutsche Bank acquired the loan and certain other
assets from Berkshire Mortgage Finance in 2004, it did not take
on the lender’s legal liability, the bank said in its response.
Imposing penalties on Deutsche Bank or its subsidiary may also
lead to broader unintended consequences for the multifamily
housing market, according to the company.  “Imposing sanctions against DBBM will likely cause
significant turmoil in the multifamily mortgage loan and
servicing-acquisition marketplace,” DBBM Managing Director
Steven Wendel said in the bank’s response. “HUD is inserting a
massive new risk into the process of selling these assets.  ‘‘Buyers of FHA servicing rights have not historically
assumed the risk of any possible sanctions due to alleged
underwriting deficiencies by sellers,’’ he wrote. Mortgage
servicers also don’t have ‘‘the ability or financial motivation
to perform the extraordinary levels of due diligence necessary
to fully assess the potential liabilities implied by the OIG’s
recommendations,” he said.  Renee Calabro , a Deutsche Bank spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 