-- 
U.S. Economy Grew 3.1% in Fourth Quarter, Revised From 2.8%

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-03-25T14:34:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/u-s-economy-expands-3-1-revised-from-2-8-as-consumer-spending-climbs.html
The  U.S. economy  grew at a 3.1
percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, led by a jump in
consumer spending that will be hard to match early in the year
as energy prices surge.  The revised increase in gross domestic product compares
with a 2.8 percent estimate issued last month, figures from the
Commerce Department showed today in Washington. Earnings at
financial firms led a 2.3 percent increase in corporate profits
from October to December that capped the biggest annual gain in
six decades.  Surging  oil prices  sparked by turmoil in the Middle East
may erode consumers’ purchasing power, and supply constraints
caused by the tragedy in Japan may slow the pace of recovery
this quarter. At the same time, lean inventories and growing
demand from emerging economies will probably keep benefiting
companies like  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , sustaining the expansion.  “The upward revisions are encouraging, though things are
shaping up to be a bit of a disappointment this quarter,” said
 Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania , who correctly forecast the gain in GDP.
“Consumer spending seems to be a little bit softer than we
anticipated. We know we’ll hit speed bumps, but the recovery
will gather momentum through the year and into 2012.”  Another report showed consumer sentiment this month
declined more than forecast as surging fuel prices squeezed
household budgets. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
final index of consumer sentiment for March fell to 67.5 from
77.5 in February, the group reported.  Shares Climb  Stocks rose as forecasts by technology companies like
Oracle Corp. beat analysts’ estimates. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rose 0.3 percent to 1,313.64 at 10:30 a.m. in  New York .
 Treasury securities  also gained, pushing the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note down to 3.39 percent compared with 3.41
percent late yesterday.  GDP was projected to expand at a 3 percent pace in the
fourth-quarter, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of 81 economists. Estimates ranged from 2.7 percent
to 3.4 percent. The world’s largest economy grew at a 2.6
percent pace in the previous three months.  For all of 2010, the economy expanded 2.9 percent, the most
in five years, after shrinking 2.6 percent in 2009.  Higher Profits  Company earnings adjusted for the value of inventories and
depreciation of  capital expenditures , known as profits from
current production, rose by $38.2 billion from the third
quarter. Domestic profits at financial corporations increased by
$57.7 billion, while earnings at non-financial businesses fell
by $10.1 billion. Earnings from operations overseas dropped by
$9.4 billion.  For the first time since before the recession began in
December 2007, profits for the quarter reached a record, at
$1.68 trillion at an annualized rate. For all of 2010, profits
climbed 29 percent, the biggest annual gain since 1948.  Consumer spending , about 70 percent of the economy, rose at
a 4 percent pace last quarter, the most since the same three
months in 2006, compared with 4.1 percent previously estimated
and a 2.4 percent rate in the third quarter.  The gain in consumer spending compared with a 4.1 percent
median forecast in the Bloomberg survey. Purchases added 2.8
percentage points to growth.  Investment, Inventories  The upward revision to growth was paced by a bigger
increase in business investment and a smaller slowdown in
stockpiling than previously estimated.  Spending on equipment and software climbed at a 7.7 percent
annual pace last quarter, up from last month’s 5.5 percent
estimate.  Inventories last quarter were stocked at a $16.2 billion
pace, compared with a previously reported $7.1 billion rate and
down from a $121.4 billion rate in the third quarter.  While leaner stockpiles help set the stage for faster
growth, they are also a double-edged sword when supply chains
are disrupted by natural disasters like the earthquake and
tsunami in  Japan . General Motors Co. has idled a pickup factory
in Shreveport,  Louisiana , because of parts shortages, and Boeing
Co. is also among companies dependent on getting supplies from
the Asian nation.  The  Federal Reserve ’s preferred price gauge, which is tied
to consumer spending and strips out food and energy costs,
climbed at a 0.4 percent annual pace, the smallest increase in
data going back to 1959 and less than the 0.5 percent previously
estimated. The Fed’s longer term projection for inflation is a
range of 1.6 percent to 2 percent. Rising oil and food costs may
push up the prices of other goods and services.  Fuel Costs  Oil that topped $106 a barrel this week and a labor-market
recovery that is taking time to develop threaten to restrain
consumer spending.  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co., on March 11 downgraded his first quarter growth estimate to
2.5 percent from 3.5 percent, citing weaker-than-forecast trade
deficit caused by a jump in imports and retail sales data.  The manufacturing industries that account for 11 percent of
the economy are likely to remain at the forefront of the
recovery on growing demand from abroad and the need to replenish
inventories.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, is seeing a “slow, steady increase” in demand in
 North America , its Chief Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  said
this week at an industry conference in  Las Vegas . “Business is
booming outside the U.S.,” Oberhelman said.  Recalling Workers  Improving demand is encouraging some companies to take on
more employees, cushioning earlier cutbacks.  General Motors Co. (GM) 
will recall the last of its laid-off workers by September,
United Auto Workers Vice President Joe Ashton said this week.  “We only have about 2,000 people now laid off and those
people will all be back to work in September,” Ashton, who
handles negotiations with GM, told union workers at the UAW’s
Special Convention on Collective Bargaining in  Detroit .  The government’s extension in December of Bush era tax cuts
and cuts to payroll taxes of 2 percentage points will help
underpin spending and hiring, while another measure that lets
firms depreciate 100 percent of capital expenditures over the
course of 2011 may spur business investment.  Today’s GDP estimate is the last of three for the quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  