-- 
U.S. Stock-Index Futures Maintain Gains as GDP Growth Revised to 3.1%

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 
2011-03-25T12:35:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/u-s-stock-index-futures-maintain-gains-as-gdp-growth-revised-to-3-1-.html
U.S. stock futures maintained
gains, signaling the market may extend its biggest weekly rally
in more than a month, as the government said the economy grew
faster than previously estimated last quarter.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in June
climbed 0.2 percent to 1,308 at 8:32 a.m. in  New York . Dow Jones
Industrial Average futures advanced 25 points, or 0.2 percent,
to 12,141.  The economy grew at a 3.1 percent annual rate in the fourth
quarter, led by a jump in  consumer spending . The revised
increase compares with a 2.8 percent estimate issued last month,
figures from the Commerce Department showed. Earnings at
financial firms led a 2.3 percent increase in corporate profits
from October to December that capped the biggest annual gain in
six decades.  U.S. stocks rose yesterday, recouping losses that followed
 Japan ’s March 11 earthquake, after corporate profits topped
analysts’ estimates and a government report showed a decline in
jobless claims. The gauge has climbed 2.4 percent so far this
week, the biggest gain in more than a month.  A report later today may show  consumer confidence  fell to a
five-month low amid rising gasoline prices. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final consumer confidence index
for this month may fall to 68, down from 77.5 in February,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  European Union leaders at a two-day meeting in Brussels
agreed to cut the startup capital for the future euro emergency
aid mechanism, while Portugal continued to rule out a rescue
after the parliament’s rejection of budget cuts led Prime
Minister  Jose Socrates  to offer to quit.  A bailout may total as much as 70 billion euros ($99
billion), two European officials with direct knowledge of the
matter said, as credit-rating cuts threatened to deepen
 Portugal ’s debt woes.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  