-- 
U.S.'s Sixth-Largest Export Sale of Corn on Record May Be Heading to China

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-03-25T14:36:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/u-s-corn-export-sale-sixth-biggest-ever-may-be-for-china.html
U.S. exporters sold 1.25 million
metric tons of corn to unknown destinations, the sixth-largest
daily sale of the grain, according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture . Analysts said the buyer may be  China .  The sale includes 1 million tons for delivery in the
2010-2011 marketing year that began Sept. 1, and 250,000 tons
for the 2011-2012 season, the USDA said today in a statement.
The U.S. is the world’s largest grower and exporter of corn, a
grain used mostly as livestock feed.  China, the biggest hog producer and pork consumer, became a
net importer of corn last year for the first time since 1995,
USDA data show. The country also has stepped up purchases of
wheat and soybeans this year. Corn prices are at a record in
China, and futures traded in  Chicago  have doubled in the past
year as rising global demand eroded inventories.  “We have no way of knowing if this was Chinese business,
but the market will assume this sale will be headed to China,”
said  Roy Huckabay , an executive vice president at the Linn Group
in Chicago. The purchase of 1 million tons for the current crop
year was “a surprise,” tightening U.S. inventories that the
government already estimates will fall to the lowest since 1996,
Huckabay said.  China bought 116,000 tons of U.S. wheat in the week ended
March 17, the most for any week since a purchase of 128,005 tons
in July 2005, the USDA said in a report yesterday. The last time
China bought U.S. wheat was 651 tons during the week ended Sept.
30.  Wheat-Buying Surprise  The wheat sale yesterday was a surprise because traders had
expected China to buy corn, which jumped to a record price in
the northern region this week. Last year, the Asian country
became a net importer of corn because of reduced yields from its
domestic crop and rising demand from livestock producers as meat
consumption increased.  “Today’s announcement should be viewed as confirmation
China has begun a corn-importing program that should continue
for some time,” Bill Gary, the president of Commodity
Information Systems Inc. in  Oklahoma City , said in a note to
clients today. Gary, who has worked in grain markets for more
than a half century, said he expects “large imports during the
current season.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  