-- 
Consumer Confidence in U.S. Falls More Than Forecast on Rising Fuel Prices

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-03-25T14:42:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/u-s-consumer-sentiment-falls-more-than-forecast-amid-rising-fuel-prices.html
Consumer sentiment in the U.S.
dropped more than forecast in March, damped by higher gasoline
costs and the effects of  Japan ’s natural disaster.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment decreased to 67.5, the lowest level since
November 2009, from 77.5 in February, the group said today. The
median forecast of 67 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
projected a reading of 68.  Gasoline prices hovering near the highest levels since
October 2008 are straining the finances of American households,
whose spending makes up about 70 percent of the world’s largest
economy. While unemployment has fallen for three months, Japan’s
earthquake crisis led to a plunge in stock values, at one point
wiping out all of 2011’s gains.  “Consumers are concerned about the rise in gasoline and
food prices,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist at
Jefferies & Co. in  New York  who correctly forecast the drop.
“People who are now shelling more money out of their pockets
every time they fill the gas tank have a whole lot less left
over for anything else they want to spend money on.”  Forecasts in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 65 to 71. A
preliminary reading issued earlier this month was 68.2. The
sentiment index averaged 89 in the five years leading up to the
recession that began in December 2007.  Drop Foreshadowed  The decline in sentiment was foreshadowed by other gauges.
The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped last week to the
lowest level since August as consumers’ assessment of the
economy dimmed. The confidence gauge, which tends to inversely
track fuel prices, slid to minus 48.9 in the week to March 20
from the prior week’s minus 48.5.  The economy grew at a revised 3.1 percent annual rate in
the fourth quarter, up from a prior estimate of 2.8 percent,
figures from the Commerce Department also showed today. The gain
was led by a jump in  consumer spending  that will be hard to
match early in the year as energy prices surge, economists said.  Stocks rose as forecasts by technology companies like
Oracle Corp. beat analysts’ estimates. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rose 0.4 percent to 1,314.65 at 10:39 a.m. in New York.
 Treasury securities  were little changed with the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note down at 3.40 percent compared with 3.41
percent late yesterday.  A drop in the outlook led the decline in sentiment. The
Michigan survey’s expectations for six months from now, which
more closely projects the direction of consumer spending, fell
to 57.9, the lowest level in two years, from 71.6.  Michigan Breakdown  The current conditions gauge, which reflects Americans’
perceptions of their financial situation and whether they
consider it a good time to buy big-ticket items like cars,
decreased to 82.5 from 86.9 the prior month.  Crude oil has surged amid unrest in  Libya  and the Middle
East, pushing up costs of gasoline. The average price of regular
gasoline at the pump climbed to $3.56 a gallon March 26,
according to AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization.  Today’s confidence survey showed consumers said they expect
an inflation rate of 4.6 percent over the next 12 months,
compared with a rate of 3.4 percent projected in February. Over
the next five years, the period tracked by Fed policy makers,
Americans’ expectations for inflation rose to 3.2 percent, the
highest level since August 2008, from 2.9 percent last month.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , in his semiannual testimony
before Congress this month, said sustained rises in the prices
of oil or other commodities “would represent a threat both to
economic growth and to overall  price stability .”  Raising Prices  Higher fuel costs deter demand for  air travel , according to
Jeffery A. Smisek, chief executive officer of  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL) , who said his airline has increased fares with
rising fuel costs.  “We’ve raised prices and we’ve had around a price increase
that has been faster than I’ve seen in the 16 years in the
business,” Smisek said during a March 22 conference call with
analysts. “As you do raise prices, you do have an adverse effect
on demand.”  The Chicago-based carrier was also the first major U.S.
airline to say travel to Japan waned after the temblor, tsunami
and radiation leaks. United Continental reported a “measurable
decline” in demand for Japan-bound flights and signaled some
flying may be cut as the crisis deepens at the country’s
earthquake-damaged nuclear plant.  “We are monitoring the markets closely and will continue to
provide the level of service that is warranted by demand and
which can be operated safely,” a spokesman, Andrew Ferraro, said
March 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  