-- 
U.S. Fourth Quarter Third Gross Domestic Product (Text)

-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-03-25T12:30:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/u-s-fourth-quarter-third-gross-domestic-product-text-.html
Following is the text of the
Gross Domestic Product from the Commerce Department.  Real gross domestic product -- the output of goods
and services produced by labor and property located in the
 United States  -- increased at an annual rate of 3.1
percent in the fourth quarter of 2010, (that is, from the
third quarter to the fourth quarter), according to the
"third" estimate released by the  Bureau of Economic
Analysis .  In the third quarter, real GDP increased 2.6
percent.  The GDP estimate released today is based on more
complete source data than were available for the "second"
estimate issued last month.  In the second estimate, the
increase in real GDP was 2.8 percent.  The increase in real GDP in the fourth quarter
primarily reflected positive contributions from personal
consumption expenditures (PCE), exports, and
nonresidential fixed investment that were partly offset by
negative contributions from private inventory investment
and state and local  government spending .  Imports, which
are a subtraction in the calculation of GDP, decreased.  The fourth-quarter acceleration in real GDP
primarily reflected a sharp downturn in imports, an
acceleration in PCE, an upturn in residential fixed
investment, and an acceleration in exports that were
partly offset by downturns in private inventory
investment, in federal government spending, and in state
and local government spending, and a deceleration in
nonresidential fixed investment.  Final sales of computers added 0.35 percentage point
to the fourth-quarter change in real GDP after adding 0.29
percentage point to the third-quarter change.  Motor
vehicle output subtracted 0.27 percentage point from the
fourth-quarter change in real GDP after adding 0.49
percentage point to the third-quarter change.  The  price index  for gross domestic purchases, which
measures prices paid by U.S. residents, increased 2.1
percent in the fourth quarter, the same increase as in the
second estimate; this index increased 0.7 percent in the
third quarter.  Excluding food and energy prices, the
price index for gross domestic purchases increased 1.1
percent in the fourth quarter, compared with an increase
of 0.4 percent
in the third.  Real personal consumption expenditures increased 4.0
percent in the fourth quarter, compared with an increase
of 2.4 percent in the third.  Durable goods increased 21.1
percent, compared with an increase of 7.6 percent.
Nondurable goods increased 4.1 percent, compared with an
increase of 2.5
percent.  Services increased 1.5 percent, compared with an
increase of 1.6 percent.  Real nonresidential fixed investment increased 7.7
percent in the fourth quarter, compared with an increase
of 10.0 percent in the third.  Nonresidential structures
increased 7.6 percent, in contrast to a decrease of 3.5
percent.  Equipment and software increased 7.7 percent,
compared with an increase of 15.4 percent.  Real
residential fixed investment increased 3.3 percent, in
contrast to a decrease of 27.3 percent.  Real exports of goods and services increased 8.6
percent in the fourth quarter, compared with an increase
of 6.8 percent in the third.  Real imports of goods and
services decreased 12.6 percent, in contrast to an
increase of 16.8 percent.  Real federal government consumption expenditures and
gross investment decreased 0.3 percent in the fourth
quarter, in contrast to an increase of 8.8 percent in the
third.  National defense decreased 2.2 percent, in
contrast to an increase of 8.5 percent.  Nondefense
increased 3.7 percent, compared with an increase of 9.5
percent.  Real state and local government consumption
expenditures and gross investment decreased 2.6 percent,
in contrast to an increase of 0.7 percent.  The change in real private inventories subtracted
3.42 percentage points from the fourth-quarter change in
real GDP, after adding 1.61 percentage points to the third-
quarter change.  Private businesses increased inventories
$16.2 billion in the fourth quarter, following increases
of $121.4 billion in the third quarter and $68.8 billion
in the second.  Real final sales of domestic product -- GDP less
change in private inventories -- increased 6.7 percent in
the fourth quarter, compared with an increase of 0.9
percent in the third.  Gross domestic purchases  Real gross domestic purchases -- purchases by U.S.
residents of goods and services wherever produced --
decreased 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter, in contrast
to an increase of 4.2 percent in the third.  Gross national product  Real gross national product -- the goods and
services produced by the labor and property supplied by
U.S. residents -- increased 2.8 percent in the fourth
quarter, compared with an increase of 2.3 percent in the
third.  GNP includes, and GDP excludes, net receipts of
income from the rest of the
world, which decreased $10.5 billion in the fourth quarter
after decreasing $7.1 billion in the third; in the
fourth quarter, receipts increased $21.1 billion, and
payments increased $31.5 billion.
Current-dollar GDP  Current-dollar GDP -- the market value of the
nation's output of goods and services -- increased 3.5
percent, or $126.3 billion, in the fourth quarter to a
level of $14,871.4 billion.  In the third quarter, current-
dollar GDP increased 4.6 percent, or $166.4 billion.  Revisions  The upward revision to the percent change in real
GDP primarily reflected upward revisions to private
inventory investment and to nonresidential fixed
investment that were partly offset by a downward revision
to exports of goods and services.  ------ Estimates -----
-  Advance  Second  Third  (Percent change from preceding quarter)
Real GDP                               3.2       2.8
3.1
Current-dollar GDP                    3.4       3.2
3.5
Gross domestic purchases price index 2.1       2.1
2.1  2010 GDP  Real GDP increased 2.9 percent in 2010 (that is,
from the 2009 annual level to the 2010 annual level), in
contrast to a decrease of 2.6 percent in 2009.  The increase in real GDP in 2010 primarily reflected
positive contributions from private inventory investment,
exports, personal consumption expenditures (PCE),
nonresidential fixed investment, and federal government
spending.  Imports, which are a subtraction in the
calculation of GDP, increased.  The upturn in real GDP primarily reflected upturns
in exports, in nonresidential fixed investment, in PCE,
and in private inventory investment and a smaller decrease
in residential fixed investment that were partly offset by
an upturn in imports.  The price index for gross domestic purchases
increased 1.3 percent in 2010, in contrast to a decrease
of 0.2 percent in 2009.  Current-dollar GDP increased 3.8 percent, or $541.4
billion, in 2010.  In contrast, current-dollar GDP
decreased 1.7 percent, or $250.1 billion, in 2009.  During 2010 (that is, measured from the fourth
quarter of 2009 to the fourth quarter of 2010), real GDP
increased 2.8 percent.  Real GDP increased 0.2 percent
during 2009.  The price index for gross domestic purchases
increased 1.2 percent during 2010, compared with an
increase of 0.5 percent during 2009.  Corporate Profits  Profits from current production (corporate profits
with inventory valuation and capital consumption
adjustments) increased $38.2 billion in the fourth
quarter, compared with an increase of $26.0 billion in the
third quarter.  Current-production  cash flow  (net cash
flow with inventory valuation adjustment) -- the internal
funds available to corporations for investment --
increased $36.9 billion in the
fourth quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $68.4 billion
in the third.  Taxes on corporate income decreased $1.3 billion in
the fourth quarter, in contrast to an increase of $23.8
billion in the third.  Profits after tax with inventory
valuation and capital consumption adjustments increased
$39.5 billion in the fourth quarter, compared with an
increase of $2.2 billion in the third.  Dividends
increased $8.9 billion, compared with an increase of $8.1
billion; current-production undistributed profits
increased $30.6 billion, in contrast to a decrease of $5.9
billion.  Domestic profits of financial corporations increased
$57.7 billion in the fourth quarter, compared with an
increase of $34.6 billion in the third.  Domestic profits
of nonfinancial corporations decreased $10.1 billion in
the fourth quarter, in contrast to an increase of $0.3
billion in the third.  In the fourth quarter, real gross
value added of nonfinancial corporations increased, and
profits per unit of real gross value added decreased.  The
decrease in unit profits reflected a decrease in unit
prices that more than offset a slight decrease in unit
labor costs.  Unit nonlabor costs were unchanged.  The rest-of-the-world component of profits decreased
$9.4 billion in the fourth quarter, compared with a
decrease of $8.9 billion in the third.  This measure is
calculated as (1) receipts by U.S. residents of earnings
from their foreign affiliates plus dividends received by
U.S. residents from
unaffiliated foreign corporations minus (2) payments by
U.S. affiliates of earnings to their foreign parents plus
dividends paid by U.S. corporations to unaffiliated
foreign residents.  The fourth-quarter decrease was
accounted for by a larger increase in payments than in
receipts.  Profits before tax with inventory valuation
adjustment is the best available measure of industry
profits because estimates of the capital consumption
adjustment by industry do not exist.  This measure
reflects depreciation-accounting practices used for
federal income tax returns and is affected by the bonus
depreciation provisions of the Tax Relief, Unemployment
Insurance Reauthorization and Job Creation Act of 2010
(see below).  According to this measure, domestic profits
of financial corporations increased and profits of
nonfinancial corporations decreased.  The decrease in
nonfinancial corporations reflected decreases in all
industries shown, except for small increases in some
detailed manufacturing industries.  The largest decrease
was in wholesale trade.  Profits before tax decreased $48.3 billion in the
fourth quarter, in contrast to an increase of $57.5
billion in the third.  The before-tax measure of profits
does not reflect, as does profits from current
production, the capital consumption and inventory
valuation adjustments.  These adjustments convert
depreciation of fixed assets and inventory withdrawals
reported on a tax-return, historical-cost basis to
the current-cost measures used in the national income and
product accounts.  The capital consumption
adjustment increased $153.5 billion in the fourth quarter
(from -$169.3 billion to -$15.8 billion),
compared with an increase of $1.4 billion in the third.
The inventory valuation adjustment decreased
$66.8 billion (from -$36.4 billion to -$103.2 billion),
compared with a decrease of $32.9 billion.  Provisions of the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance
Reauthorization and Job Creation Act of 2010  The Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance
Reauthorization and Job Creation Act of 2010, signed into
law December 17, 2010, provided a retroactive increase in
bonus depreciation from 50 percent to 100 percent for
qualified purchases made between September 9, 2010 and
December 31, 2011.  Profits from current production are not affected
because they do not depend on the depreciation-
accounting practices used for federal income tax returns;
rather, they are based on depreciation of fixed
assets valued at current cost and using consistent
depreciation profiles based on used-asset prices.  The
additional depreciation provided for by the Act is
estimated to have increased tax-based depreciation
expenses of corporations in the fourth quarter by $156.0
billion (annual rate) and reduced profits before
tax, which is based on earnings reported on tax returns,
by the same amount.  The capital consumption
adjustment, which is the difference between the
depreciation specified in the  tax code  and the
depreciation underlying profits from current production,
also increased by the same amount because the
Act raised tax depreciation by $156.0 billion.  (Fourth-
quarter profits tax liability was reduced by $36.1
billion, and profits after tax were reduced by $119.9
billion.)  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Tanzi in Washington at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  