-- 
U.S. Is Increasing Contacts With Libyan Opposition

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-25T21:30:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/u-s-stepping-up-contacts-with-libyan-opposition-1-.html
The U.S. has been increasing its
contacts with the Libyan opposition, which is “off to a good
start,” the U.S. ambassador to Libya said.  The Libyan rebel council trying to oust  Muammar Qaddafi  has
“moved in a positive direction” as it has begun to form a
government, said ambassador Gene Cretz, speaking to reporters in
Washington at the State Department.  Cretz said he and his embassy team, which moved from
Tripoli to Washington, are “now in touch with them
constantly,” he said.  The ambassador said the U.S. still needs to learn more
about the rebels. “I don’t think we’re at a point where we can
make a judgment that this is a 100 percent kosher, so to speak,
group,” he said.  The U.S. may consider formally recognizing the rebel
council once some legal issues are settled, said Cretz, who was
based in Tripoli until December 2010. Cretz left the country
after the release by WikiLeaks of diplomatic cables in which
Qaddafi was described as a “mercurial” and “notoriously
erratic” and a “hypochondriac.”  Cretz today described the Libyan leader as a master
tactician and “the architect of his own gilded cage.”  The ambassador said U.S. is ready to help the opposition in
multiple ways, from political training and legal advice to
humanitarian aid. He wouldn’t say whether the U.S. was helping
to arm the opposition.  Scenario Planning  “Based on the experience that we’ve had so far, they are
off to a good start in word and deed and do not seem to be, at
least in the statements and the actions that they’ve taken, in
any way incompatible with the kind of ideals that we would be
advocating,” Cretz said.  The U.S. is planning for various scenarios that might
emerge from  Libya ’s civil war, Cretz said. The U.S. may offer a
new government political training, legal advice and help from
“the full array of the different programs and the different
departments that we have available throughout the U.S.
government to them, should they request that.”  Cretz said he has also had “limited contact” with
representatives of the Qaddafi regime, which has reached out to
“mediators” including Assistant Secretary of State for Near
Eastern Affairs, Jeffrey Feltman.  Cretz called Qaddafi’s allies “with the sole purpose” of
making sure they understood the message in President Barack Obama’s March 18 remarks, he said. In that speech, Obama warned
there would be consequences for Qaddafi and his circle for
violence and humanitarian abuses.  It was “a kind of a ‘look not for whom the bell tolls, it
tolls for thee,’ kind of warning,” designed to make sure the
Qaddafi regime understood “what was at stake,” Cretz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  