-- 
U.S. Congress to Schedule Hearings, Classified Briefing on Libya Action

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-03-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/u-s-congress-to-schedule-hearings-classified-briefing-on-libya-action.html
Both houses of Congress plan public
hearings on the military intervention in  Libya  by the U.S. and
allies, and top Obama administration officials will brief
lawmakers next week.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , Defense Secretary
 Robert Gates  and other officials will meet with House members in
closed session on March 30, according to a notice sent to
members.  The classified briefing on the situation in Libya and an
appearance by Deputy Secretary of State  James Steinberg  at a
House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing the following day are
part of the administration’s efforts to respond to lawmakers’
complaints that they weren’t adequately consulted before the
March 19 start of the allied air assault on Libya’s anti-
aircraft defenses. The military action was authorized by the
 United Nations  to curb Colonel Muammar Qaddafi’s capability to
target civilians supporting the revolt against his regime.  “We think that it is important to consult with members of
Congress” and “we think the questions that have been asked
have been legitimate,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney 
told reporters in Washington yesterday. The administration
“will continue to consult” with lawmakers, he said.  The briefing with administration officials was requested by
House Speaker  John Boehner , who also wrote to President  Barack Obama  earlier this week seeking an explanation of the purposes
and strategic rationale for the military operation.  Several Hearings  Carney listed 10 congressional hearings since Feb. 28 where
administration officials had discussed the options for action in
Libya. He also cited a March 18 briefing that Obama conducted
for Democratic and Republican congressional leaders and key
members of the Senate and House committees dealing with defense,
foreign affairs and intelligence.  That session took place a day after most lawmakers left
 Washington  for a weeklong recess. Some participants met with
Obama in the Situation Room at the White House and others joined
in by telephone, lawmakers said.  Carney said Obama couldn’t wait to act until Congress
returned from its recess because “leadership requires him to
take action when action will save lives, and delaying action
will cost lives.” When the military action began, troops loyal
to Qaddafi were massed on the outskirts of the rebel stronghold
of Benghazi, Libya’s second-largest city.  “Had we waited for Congress to get back,” Carney said,
Qaddafi’s forces “would control Benghazi, and there would have
been a great deal of people killed in the process.”  In addition to Clinton and Gates, House members will also
hear from Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, and  James Clapper , the director of national intelligence,
at the March 30 briefing, according to the notice sent to
members.  Libya’s Importance  At the House Foreign Affairs hearing the next day,
Steinberg will be questioned about Libya’s importance to U.S.
security, according to a  notice  on the committee’s website.  A spokesman for the Senate Foreign Relations Committee said
in a statement that a hearing on Libya would be held in the
“near future.”  The panel’s chairman, Massachusetts Democrat  John Kerry ,
“has been traveling in the region” during this week’s recess
“to get information firsthand from our allies,” Frederick Jones said in the statement.  “Senator Kerry understands the importance and complexity
of our role in protecting the people of Libya and the committee
will hold public hearings in the near future,” Jones said.  Senator  Richard Lugar  of  Indiana , the top Republican on the
Foreign Relations panel, sent a letter to Kerry on March 23
requesting hearings on Libya.  “The administration has not adequately defined the U.S.
strategic interest in Libya or adequately articulated how the
conflict ends,” he wrote.  Jones said that the Libyan situation “was explored in
depth” during a March 17 committee hearing when Under Secretary
of State William Burns testified about citizen uprisings in the
Middle East and North Africa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net 
-0- Mar/25/ :01 GMT 