-- 
U.S. Treasury Department Schedule for Friday, March 25

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-03-25T12:05:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/u-s-treasury-department-schedule-for-friday-march-25.html
The following is a reformatted
version of the U.S. Treasury Department’s daily release on the
schedule for Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and other officials:  On Friday morning, Secretary Geithner will travel to
Northwest  Arkansas  where he will meet at the Arkansas World
Trade Center with regional business leaders to discuss how
government and the private sector can work together to out-
innovate our competition. This meeting is closed press.  In the afternoon, Secretary Geithner will visit the
manufacturing plant and labs of NanoMech, an award-winning,
innovative small business that uses nanotechnology to
manufacture products with broad applications, including
machining and manufacturing, lubrication and energy, and
biomedical implant coatings. In conjunction with the visit,
Treasury will release a new report detailing the economic
benefits of the President’s Fiscal Year 2012 Budget proposal to
enhance the Research & Experimentation (R&E) tax credit, which
will benefit innovative companies like NanoMech and increase
their investments in research projects. Following the tour of
the plant, the Secretary will host a brief media availability.  Later on Friday, the Secretary with depart Northwest
Arkansas for Calgary,  Canada  to attend the meeting of finance
ministers of the Americas and the Caribbean. On the heels of his
recent travel to  Brazil  - both in February and again this week
with President Obama - Secretary Geithner will consult with his
counterparts on enhancing regional integration in the
hemisphere, strengthening the global recovery and promoting  job
creation .  On Friday evening, Secretary Geithner will attend a
reception and working dinner for the Regional Finance Ministers.
There will be pooled photo opportunities at the family photo and
the dinner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in  Washington  
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  