-- 
U.S. Fourth Quarter Third GDP Technical Note (Text)

-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-03-25T12:30:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/u-s-fourth-quarter-third-gdp-technical-note-text-.html
Following is the technical note
of
the Gross Domestic Product from the Commerce Department.  This technical note provides background information about the
source data and estimating methods used to produce the
estimates presented in the GDP news release.  The complete set
of estimates for the fourth quarter is available on BEA's Web
site at www.bea.gov; a brief summary of "highlights" is also
posted on the Web site.  In a few weeks, the estimates will be
published in BEA's monthly journal, the Survey of Current
Business, along with a more detailed analysis of the estimates
("GDP and the Economy").  Sources of Revision to Real GDP  Real GDP increased 3.1 percent (annual rate) in the fourth
quarter, which was 0.3 percentage point more than last months
estimate.  The upward revision to GDP reflected upward
revisions to inventory investment and to nonresidential fixed
investment that were partly offset by a downward revision to
exports.  *       The revision to inventory investment reflected revised
Census Bureau inventory data for December.
*       The revision to nonresidential fixed investment
primarily reflected upward revisions to software and to
computers and peripheral equipment, based on newly available
Census quarterly services survey software data for the fourth
quarter and revised Federal Reserve industrial production
index computer data for September through December.
*       The downward revision to exports was to both goods and
services and was based on revised Census goods data for
December and quarterly services data from BEAs international
transactions accounts.  The  price index  for gross domestic purchases the prices paid
by U.S. residents for goods and services wherever produced
increased 2.1 percent in the fourth quarter, the same as last
months estimate.  Corporate Profits  Profits from current production increased $38.2 billion, or
2.3 percent (quarterly rate), in the fourth quarter. Domestic
profits of financial corporations increased $57.7 billion,
domestic profits of nonfinancial corporations decreased $10.1
billion, and rest-of-the-world profits decreased $9.4 billion.  Bonus Depreciation  The Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization and Job
Creation Act of 2010, signed into law December 17, 2010,
provided a retroactive increase in bonus depreciation from 50
percent to 100 percent for qualified purchases made
between September 9, 2010 and December 31, 2011.  Profits from current production are not affected because they
do not depend on the depreciation-accounting practices
used for federal income tax returns; rather, they are based on
depreciation of fixed assets valued at current cost and
using consistent depreciation profiles based on used-asset
prices. The additional depreciation provided for by the Act
is estimated to have increased tax-based depreciation expenses
of corporations in the fourth quarter by $156.0 billion
(annual rate) and reduced profits before tax, which is based
on earnings reported on tax returns, by the same amount.
The capital consumption adjustment, which is the difference
between the depreciation specified in the  tax code  and the
depreciation underlying profits from current production, also
increased by the same amount because the Act raised tax
depreciation by $156.0 billion. (Fourth quarter profits tax
liability was reduced by $36.1 billion, and profits after
tax were reduced by $119.9 billion.)  As with corporate profits from current production, nonfarm
proprietors income with capital consumption and inventory
valuation adjustments was not affected by the provisions of
the act; nonfarm proprietors income without these adjustments
was reduced, and the related capital consumption adjustment
was increased by the same amount. The other major national
income and product account components and aggregates shown in
this release were not affected.  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov . 