-- 
Unemployment Drop in 27 U.S. States Points to Strengthening Labor Market

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-03-25T15:01:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/unemployment-drop-in-27-u-s-states-points-to-strengthening-labor-market.html
Unemployment decreased in 27 U.S.
states in February, suggesting a strengthening labor market.  The jobless rate fell the most in  Nevada , where it reached
13.6 percent, figures from the Labor Department showed today in
Washington. Thirty-five states showed gains in payrolls, led by
California with a 96,500 increase and Pennsylvania where
employment climbed by 23,700.  The report is consistent with March 4 government figures
showing nationwide unemployment in February fell to 8.9 percent
as employers added 192,000 workers. Broader payroll gains are
needed to bolster consumer spending, the biggest part of the
 U.S. economy .  “The labor market recovery is starting to accelerate,”
Marisa Di Natale, an economist at Moody’s Analytics in  West
Chester , Pennsylvania, said before today’s report. “We’re going
to see strong job growth but it’s going to take a while to
absorb everyone who wants a job.”  The economy grew at a 3.1 percent annual rate in the fourth
quarter, led by a jump in  consumer spending  that will be hard to
match early in the year as energy prices surge.  The revised increase in gross domestic product compares
with a 2.8 percent estimate issued last month, figures from the
Commerce Department showed today in Washington.  Jobless Rate  North Dakota  had the lowest unemployment in the nation,
falling to a 3.7 percent rate from 3.8 percent the prior month.
Nevada’s jobless rate fell last month from 14.2 percent in
January.  The jobless rate also fell in Florida, where it declined to
11.5 percent in February from 11.9 percent in January.
Michigan’s jobless rate fell to 10.4 percent, its lowest level
since November 2008, from 10.7 percent.  Unemployment rose in seven states, including  Colorado ,
which reached a 9.3 percent rate in February, the highest for
that state since record-keeping began in 1976.  The labor market improved in other states, including
payroll gains in Florida and Texas, each of which added 22,700
workers.  Payrolls fell in 14 states and the  District of Columbia .
Kansas, Missouri, Washington and Indiana were among the states
with the biggest decline.  Central bank policy makers will likely keep  interest rates 
near zero and maintain plans to buy $600 billion in Treasury
securities by June to boost the pace of recovery until they see
signs of sustained job creation.  Cutbacks at state and local governments are weighing on the
labor market recovery. Nassau County Executive Edward Mangano,
head of  New York ’s wealthiest county, this week proposed cutting
520 jobs to close a $176 million current-year deficit.  State and local employment data are derived independently
from the national statistics, which are typically released on
the first Friday of every month. The state figures are subject
to larger sampling errors because they come from smaller
surveys, making the national figures more reliable, according to
the government’s Bureau of Labor Statistics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  