-- 
Luxury-Home Prices in London Climb as Purchasers Try to Beat Tax Increase

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-03-25T10:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/luxury-home-prices-in-london-climb-as-purchasers-try-to-beat-tax-increase.html
London  luxury-home prices rose at
the fastest rate in a year in the first quarter as overseas
buyers vied for trophy properties in the city center and because
of a rush to beat a property-tax increase.  The average value of a residence costing more than 1
million pounds ($1.6 million) rose 2 percent from the previous
three months, according to an index compiled by London-based
property broker  Savills Plc.  Prices climbed 3.3 percent from a
year earlier and are 6.2 percent below the peak in the third
quarter of 2007.  An increase in sales of the most-expensive central London
properties to buyers from outside the U.K. lifted the average
price for transactions handled by Savills to 5 million pounds
from 3 million pounds a year earlier. The sales tax for British
homes costing at least 1 million pounds increases next month by
1 point to 5 percent.  “Things are absolutely flying” in the ‘Big Three’ central
London neighborhoods of Belgravia, Knightsbridge and Mayfair,
said Johnny Turnbull, managing director of  Turnbull Property ,
which advises the wealthy on buying London homes. “A lot is
down to foreign buyers coming into the market.”  The pound’s 23 percent slide against a basket of other
currencies since the housing-market peak in 2007 has made London
real estate attractive to international purchasers seeking a
pied-a-terre or an investment property. They have had to compete
for a dwindling number of properties for sale.  Buyers from outside the U.K. accounted for about 70 percent
of purchases of 5 million-pound homes, while the number of
properties available in that price bracket is about 30 percent
below the five-year average, Savills said.  Russian Buyers  “We had an incredibly strong start to the year at the top
end and seen lots of activity from across the world, with
Russian buyers dominating,” said Jonathan Hewlett, head of the
company’s London residential division.  Prices in central London neighborhoods near Hyde Park,
which are the parts of the city most favored by overseas buyers,
gained 2.8 percent from the previous quarter and 3.7 percent
from a year earlier, Savills said.  A desire to protect wealth from financial or political
volatility at home is driving interest in acquiring London
properties, according to Knight Frank LLP, another broker. The
firm estimated that it handled deals involving buyers from 50
countries last year, up from 30 nationalities in 2008.  Middle East Unrest  Political instability in the Middle East has increased the
number of sales to buyers from that region, Savills said.  W.A.
Ellis LLP , which specializes in the Knightsbridge market, said
it receives 10 inquiries a week from prospective buyers or
renters from the Middle East since January’s uprising in  Tunisia 
triggered unrest across the region.  For Middle East buyers, “there’s been an acceleration in
the decision process,” said Robert Bailey, who runs a property
purchase advisory company of the same name. “There’s more focus
now about what to do if potentially things topple and there’s an
exodus.”  The pursuit of a London property as a haven to preserve
wealth has ensured the very top tier of “super prime” real
estate costing more than 5 million pounds has “broken away”
from the rest of London’s prime market, said Yolande Barnes, Savills’s head of residential research.  Luxury houses have appreciated more than apartments. Prices
for houses rose 3.4 percent in the first quarter, or double the
rate for high-end apartments across the British capital,
according to the Savills report. Prime house prices are now 0.5
percent higher than the peak of 2007, the report showed.  Fulham, Putney  The strongest annual price growth is in southwest London, a
market in which overseas buyers account for only 20 percent of
prime residential property sales. Here, the scheduled  sales-tax 
increase lifted demand from owner-occupier buyers.  Values in the area, which includes districts such as
Fulham, Wandsworth and Putney, rose by an average by 2.2 percent
in the quarter and by 6 percent from a year earlier.  The area is a favorite for owner-occupiers, many of whom
work in banking or financial services, because of the relatively
high proportion of family homes and good schools, Barnes said.  “Transactions are being pulled forward into the first
quarter because of the tax increase,” she said. “It doesn’t
mean that it will roll on from here. April will be a very
revealing month.”  Savills predicts for now that prime residential prices in
central London will probably drop by about 1 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 