-- 
Vale Said to Consider Current Executive to Replace Agnelli

-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-03-25T23:06:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/vale-s-agnelli-says-decision-on-future-depends-on-shareholders.html
Controlling shareholders of  Vale
SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron-ore exporter, may replace Chief
Executive Officer Roger Agnelli with an executive from within
the company, said a person close to one of the investors.  The Brazilian government, one of the controlling
shareholders of Rio de Janeiro-based  Vale , is seeking to oust
Agnelli because of disagreements over the pace of the company’s
investments in  Brazil , according to the person, who declined to
be named because the talks aren’t public.  Rio de Janeiro-based newspaper O Globo columnist Ancelmo
Gois reported today Agnelli will leave Vale. The company
declined to comment on the report, after Agnelli had said
earlier in the day that any decision on his future would be
taken by the company’s controlling shareholders.  Brazilian newspapers reported earlier this week that
President Dilma Rousseff’s government is asking shareholders,
including the Previ pension fund and Banco Bradesco SA, to vote
for a new CEO in a meeting next month. Rousseff’s predecessor,
 Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , criticized Vale when the company
reduced investments in 2009 and he called for the miner to
increase spending on steel production and fertilizers.  An official at Vale in  Rio de Janeiro , who declined to be
named citing corporate policy, said the company has no comment
on the O Globo report. Officials at Bradesco, Previ and the
 Finance Ministry  also declined to comment.  Shareholders Choice  “The choice for the chief executive of Vale is a decision
that lies exclusively in the hands of the controlling
shareholders,” Agnelli said today in an e-mailed statement.
“I’m not involved in any political issue on this topic.”  Agnelli, 51, succeeded Jorio Dauster in July 2001,
overseeing more than $86 billion in investments and acquisitions
during his decade-long tenure as head of Brazil’s biggest
exporter. During that time, Vale’s shares gained more than 10
times their value as iron-ore output and prices surged.  Newspaper  Valor Economico  said yesterday that the main
shareholders may replace Agnelli with Tito Botelho Martins, head
of Vale’s base metals unit, without saying where it got the
information.  Vale dropped 2 centavos to 46.88 reais in Sao Paulo
trading. The stock declined about 3.4 percent in the past year,
compared with a 1.3 percent decline for Brazil’s Benchmark
Bovespa Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net 
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at o
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  