-- 
Viagra Syndrome Pains Tell-All Author; Schnabel’s ‘Miral’: Film

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/viagra-syndrome-pains-tell-all-author-schnabel-irks-israel-rick-warner.html
The oldest brother is a failed
architect who sneaks out on his pregnant wife to watch porn
movies in a peep-show booth.  The middle brother is a penniless lawyer bouncing in and
out of rehab, and his sister is a neurotic actress who is suing
their youngest brother over his scathing autobiographical novel.  And then there’s the father, a narcissistic  Los Angeles 
real-estate tycoon who divorced their mother and is dating a
woman young enough to be his daughter.  Modern movies are replete with dysfunctional families, but
the Meyerwitz clan in “ Peep World ” is one of the most screwed-
up in recent memory.  Barry Blaustein’s sitcomish black comedy, built around a
dinner to celebrate the patriarch’s 70th birthday, features a
group that belongs in the Nutty Family Hall of Fame along with
“The Royal Tenenbaums.” Regrettably, the characters created by
screenwriter Peter Himmelstein are so paper thin that it’s hard
to care about all their moaning and groaning.  The four siblings feel neglected by their driven father,
Henry (Ron Rifkin), who considers them a bunch of losers except
for author Nathan (Ben Schwartz). Henry hasn’t read his son’s
hot-selling book “Peep World,” but he admires success of any
kind.  Tell-All Book  Nathan’s sister, Cheri (Sarah Silverman), isn’t so thrilled
with the tell-all book, which is being made into a movie in
front of her apartment. Neither are his brothers, sad-sack
architect Jack (Michael C. Hall) and in-debt lawyer Joel (Rainn
Wilson), who are also savagely portrayed in the novel.  Nathan has problems of his own, most notably in his groin.
After a doctor gives him a shot that’s supposed to improve his
sexual performance, Nathan gets one of those endless erections
they warn about in Viagra ads. His book publicist (Kate Mara)
offers him a solution that goes well beyond her job description.  Everything leads up to the climactic dinner at a fancy
restaurant, where the siblings (accompanied by their horrified
mates) endure a stern lecture from the old man about ambition,
responsibility and money.  Dad gets choked up, in a manner of speaking. Gag me with a
spoon, please.  “Peep World,” from  IFC Films , is playing in New York and
Los Angeles. Rating: **  ‘Miral’  It’s no surprise that a Jewish director is being accused of
making a biased film about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
What’s surprising is the source of the criticism: the  American
Jewish Committee , which claims that  Julian Schnabel ’s “ Miral ”
is pro-Palestinian and anti-Israel.  It’s true that the movie presents a sympathetic portrayal
of Palestinians struggling with Israel’s occupation of their
homeland. Scenes depicting brutal treatment of Palestinians by
Israeli authorities, including the beating of a young woman by
interrogators, aren’t balanced with civilian murders by
Palestinian terrorists.  But the slanted perspective -- which is understandable
given that the film, written by Rula Jebreal, is based on her
autobiographical novel about growing up as a Palestinian in
 Israel  -- isn’t the real problem.  ‘Slumdog’ Actress  Schnabel, a celebrated artist who moonlights as an
adventurous film director (“Before Night Falls,” “The Diving
Bell and the Butterfly”), has turned Jebreal’s intensely
personal story into a fuzzy multigenerational saga that feels
more like a TV miniseries than a feature film.  The impressive cast -- led by Freida Pinto (“Slumdog
Millionaire”) as Miral and Hiam Abbass (“The Visitor”) as her
mentor -- and Schnabel’s visual flair can’t mask the film’s
ponderous structure and melodramatic air. Fair or not, “Miral”
is a bore.  “Miral,” from Weinstein Co., is playing in New York and
Los Angeles. Rating: *1/2  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 