-- 
Vietnam Limits Foreign Currency Loans to Curb Inflation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-25T12:56:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/vietnam-limits-foreign-currency-loans-to-curb-inflation-1-.html
Vietnam ’s central bank
instructed banks to limit foreign currency loans as of May 6
as part of government efforts to curb inflation, according to
a  statement  on its website today.  Credit institutions will be allowed to make short-,
medium- and long-term foreign currency loans to businesses to
settle import contracts, the  State Bank  of Vietnam said in
the statement. In this case, companies will have to have
foreign currency resources to repay banks, it said.  Banks are also allowed to grant short-term foreign
currency loans for exports, according to the statement. In
order to get the loans, companies will have to ensure
sufficient foreign currency holdings from exports to repay
loans. Others loans demand will require documented approval
from the central bank’s governor, according to the statement.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung’s government is
struggling to contain inflation and narrow a  trade gap  that
reached $12.4 billion last year, undermining the dong.
Officials devalued the dong for the fourth time in 15 months
on Feb. 11 to narrow the excess of imports over exports amid
concern the nation may run short on capital needed to fund
the deficit.  Vietnam’s consumer prices rose 13.89 percent this month
from a year earlier, compared with a 12.31 percent pace in
February, according to figures released by the General
Statistics Office in Hanoi today. That’s the highest figure
since February 2009. The trade deficit widened to $1.15
billion from a revised $1.11 billion in February, according
to preliminary figures released today.  --Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi. Editor: Jan Dahinten.  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at +84-4-3936-6725 or
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  