-- 
Warren Says Consumer Bureau Foes Should Look at Wall Street ‘Behemoths’

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-03-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/warren-says-consumer-bureau-foes-should-look-at-bank-behemoths-.html
Elizabeth Warren , the Obama
administration adviser assigned to set up the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, said lawmakers looking to limit the agency’s
authority should focus instead on the Wall Street “behemoths”
aiming to undermine its mission.  “If we’re going to go out there and spill ink on
accountability, we should also ask about how to hold powerful
financial institutions accountable,” Warren said yesterday in
an interview with Bloomberg News. “The idea that we should be
worried that some agency that will speak up for consumers might
get a little too loud is looking in the wrong direction.”  Warren was responding to complaints by Republican lawmakers
that the agency, created by the Dodd-Frank Act in a Democrat-run
Congress, lacks accountability. Republicans, who took control of
the House in November elections, have proposed subjecting the
bureau’s budget to congressional approval and replacing its yet-
to-be-filled director’s post with a five-member commission.  Dodd-Frank, the rules overhaul enacted in response to the
2008 financial crisis, gave the bureau power to regulate
consumer financial products sold by companies ranging from
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to payday lenders and
mortgage brokers. It is scheduled to begin work on July 21, a
year after President  Barack Obama  signed the legislation.  Obama’s appointment of Warren, 61, to help shape the bureau
has been faulted by Republicans, including Representative
Patrick McHenry of  North Carolina , who say her role as adviser
to the Treasury secretary and assistant to the president injects
politics into what is supposed to be an impartial regulator.  ‘Not a Problem’  Warren, a Harvard University professor who specialized in
consumer bankruptcy law, said her professional experience is an
asset in the White House role.  “I’ve done 30 years of research on middle class economic
issues and I bring that background and insight to the work I’m
doing,” she said.  Warren, who said the effort to find a director nominee is
proceeding “very carefully and deliberately,” said requiring
Senate confirmation for the presidentially appointed post makes
the bureau accountable to Congress.  Dodd-Frank stipulates that the bureau’s spending be set as
a percentage of the  Federal Reserve ’s operating budget, which
would give it as much as $500 million annually. Putting its
budget into the appropriations debate would discourage examiners
from making decisions that displease big banks, she said.  “Without independent funding, every time an examiner goes
in to look at the books and records of a trillion dollar company
they’ll be facing the possibility that that company will come
back in the next budget cycle and lobby to have the bureau’s
budget cut,” Warren said.  ‘Significant Reduction’  “Any significant reduction in funding takes cops off the
beat,” Warren said. “You don’t want the people being examined
to have the power to fire the cops that do the examination, even
in an indirect way.”  The bureau’s structure reflects concern expressed by
lawmakers who crafted Dodd-Frank that regulators such as the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency failed to properly
regulate big banks before the credit crisis, according to Rachel
Barkow, a New York University professor who testified before
Congress during debate over the legislation.  “The question was how to make the agency independent and
not in the hands of banks,” Barkow said. “If anything,
financial regulatory agencies are often too accountable to
political interests.”  Accountability Requirements  The consumer bureau’s accountability requirements are
similar to those for existing federal bank regulators, though
each agency has some unique rules. The Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp.’s inspector general, for example, is funded through
congressional appropriations, spokesman  Andrew Gray  said.  The FDIC, like the OCC and the Fed, have guaranteed funding
streams outside of the congressional appropriations process.  The bureau has to issue twice-yearly reports to Congress on
its work, and the director has to explain them to lawmakers. It
also must file quarterly reports to the Office of Management and
Budget, which audits the agency and reports to Congress.  The new agency is alone among regulators in that its rules
can be overridden by a two-thirds vote of the Financial
Stability Oversight Council, a panel of regulators created by
Dodd-Frank.  Republicans, in a statement posted on the House Financial
Services Committee website on March 22, argued that the two-
thirds threshold is too high to be meaningful.  Warren argued that regulators who look out primarily for
financial stability, such as the OCC, will still have a strong
voice at the table.  “The OCC’s core mission is safety and soundness,” Warren
said. “They won’t leave that behind when they sit on the
FSOC.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 