-- 
Actor Beatty Wins Suit Against Tribune Over Rights to Dick Tracy Character

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-03-25T20:47:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/warren-beatty-wins-ruling-over-rights-to-dick-tracy-comic-strip-character.html
Actor Warren Beatty won a lawsuit
to stop Tribune Co. from reclaiming the television and movie
rights to comic-strip detective Dick Tracy.  U.S. District Judge Dean Pregerson in  Los Angeles  ruled
yesterday that a Beatty TV special, in which he was interviewed
dressed as the Dick Tracy character, satisfied a clause in the
agreement with Tribune to produce a Dick Tracy movie or TV show
by a deadline or lose the rights to the character.  “The court found that Warren did everything that was
required of him to retain the rights,” Beatty’s lawyer, Charles
Shephard, said after Pregerson granted summary judgment in the
actor’s favor.  Beatty sued Tribune for a second time in 2008, seeking a
court order to prevent the company from taking back rights to
the character. Beatty directed and starred in the  1990 movie 
“Dick Tracy.”  Beatty had claimed in his previous lawsuit that Tribune
didn’t follow the contract’s provisions when it sought to
reclaim the rights. That case was dismissed in November 2006,
when Tribune withdrew notices to reclaim the rights.  At the same time, the company notified Beatty that it would
renew the effort to take back the rights if he hadn’t begun
filming a project within two years, the actor said in the 2008
complaint.  The actor said he started filming a Dick Tracy television
special on Nov. 8, 2008, beating a Nov. 20 deadline. Tribune,
based in  Chicago , claimed the special wasn’t a stand-alone
independent television program and didn’t meet the terms of the
agreement.  “At the present time, we are reviewing the judge’s opinion
and evaluating our options,” a Tribune spokesman,  Gary Weitman ,
said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is Beatty v. Tribune Media Services Inc., 08-7662,
U.S. District Court, Central District of  California  (Los
Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 