-- 
Washington's Population Grows With Biggest White Influx Since FDR's Time

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-03-25T16:11:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/washington-s-population-grows-with-biggest-white-influx-since-fdr-s-time.html
In the four years since Lindsay
Pettingill moved near Howard University in  Washington , D.C., she
has seen the growing mark of young newcomers like herself: The
booming farmers’ market, the Macintosh laptops at the café, even
the occasional Red Sox cap when the team comes to town.  The 30-year-old Georgetown University graduate student said
she loves the century-old buildings and diversity of a
neighborhood where blacks have long had a large majority.  “It’s just a little paradise,” Pettingill, who is white,
said on a Friday afternoon, when the din of home-remodeling jobs
could be heard every few blocks.  She’s part of an influx that’s pushing up the population of
the nation’s capital for the first time since the 1940s, before
hundreds of thousands were drawn to suburbs or fled during the
racially charged decades after segregation ended.  The District of Columbia’s population gained 5 percent, to
601,723, from 2000 to 2010, driven by the biggest jump in white
residents since the 1930s, data released by the U.S. Census
Bureau yesterday showed. The capital’s white population rose by
50,286, or 32 percent, to 209,464. The black population slid by
39,035 to 301,053 -- dropping to 50 percent of the city, the
smallest share since the 1950s.  “The changes are more dramatic than I was originally
thinking,” said  Peter Tatian , a researcher with the  Urban
Institute  in Washington who studies the city’s neighborhoods.
“It’s quite a big turnaround in terms of whites moving into the
city.”  Reversing Trend  Washington joins eastern U.S. cities, including
Philadelphia, Baltimore and  Newark , that grew or stabilized
after decades of decline, reversing a trend that’s continuing in
 Detroit  and other industrial cities in the Midwest.  Washington is benefiting from a drop in crime; an economy
tied to an expanding federal government, which has helped buffer
it from the recession; and traffic congestion in the suburbs
that  ranks among  the worst in the nation.  Benjamin Orr , an analyst with the  Brookings Institution ,
said the city is  drawing in wealthier residents  and capitalizing
on interest in inner-city living. The biggest population gains
were in Wards 2 and 6, adjacent districts that run through the
center of the city from Georgetown through Capitol Hill.  “The district has become a more expensive place to live,”
he said. “So households with less income are leaving the
District and households with more income are moving in --and
there’s a racial component to that demographic, like a lot of
places in the country.”  Income Rises  Washington’s median household income rose by 41 percent to
$56,519 during the decade, according to previously released
census data. That compares with a 22 percent increase for the
U.S. The average selling price of a single-family home was
$603,000 in October 2010, up from $288,000 10 years earlier,
city figures show.  The federal government has helped stoke the city’s growth.
There were 212,000 federal employees in Washington at the end of
September, an increase of 17 percent since 2001, according to
the city’s annual financial reports. Overall, the number of jobs
grew by 10 percent to 718,000 from September 2001 to September
2010, a period when the nation lost jobs.  Real-estate developer Adrian Washington, a city native and
founder of  Neighborhood Development Co. , credits former Mayor
Anthony Williams with fostering the turnaround by improving the
city’s image and quality of services.  Williams, mayor from 1999 to 2007, took over a city once
infamous for crime and the 1990 Federal Bureau of Investigation
sting that captured then-Mayor Marion Barry smoking crack
cocaine in a hotel room.  ‘Much Better Place’  “The city has become a much better place,” said
Washington, 52, who is black.  Washington, whose company works on revitalizing
neighborhoods, said his condominium projects in the center of
the city have drawn college-educated singles and couples in
their late-20s and 30s.  Merry Alderman Ritsch, a white native of  New York , bought a
house three years ago in the  Bloomingdale  neighborhood near
Howard. She said she appreciates the ethnic mix and the
closeness of city life.  “I’ve never lived in an area that felt so much like a
community,” said Ritsch, 32, as she pulled her 1-year-old son
in a red wagon through Anna J. Cooper Circle, a park in
Northwest Washington named for a black feminist and educator who
once lived nearby.  Welcoming Change  The change is welcomed by James Patterson, a construction
contractor who works from an office near the  Howard Theatre , a
shuttered landmark where musical luminaries such as Ella Fitzgerald,  Stevie Wonder  and Marvin Gaye once played.  The theater is being restored. Patterson, 72, said it’s now
typical to see women walking safely at night along streets that
were once drug havens, and he’s heartened by the racial
integration.  “It should have been this way all along,” said Patterson,
who is black.  There are drawbacks. Simuel Washington, a 91-year-old
retiree, said the demographic change has pushed up prices in the
U Street neighborhood that was once the cultural heart of the
black community.  “If you don’t have a decent salary, you can’t live,” said
Washington, a retired government worker who has lived in the
area since 1939. “Rich people are taking over.”  Great Migration  Washington was a prime destination during the  Great
Migration , the period from World War I through the middle of the
century when blacks left farm jobs in the South for the cities
of the North.  By 1960, black residents became a majority in Washington.
In 1970, their share of the population peaked at 71 percent,
after the riots that erupted in the wake of the 1968
assassination of  Martin Luther King Jr . accelerated an exodus of
whites.  The city’s black population has declined in each successive
decade. Adrian Washington, the developer, attributed the
decrease to black families leaving the Southeast neighborhoods,
across the Anacostia River, for neighboring Prince George’s
County,  Maryland , which gained 54,000 black residents last
decade.  Ward 8, in Southeast on the other side of the river, was
the only one to lose population during the past decade.  Wealth Divide  Washington City Councilman  Michael Brown  said the economic
revitalization leaves him concerned that some residents may be
pushed out, leaving a city bisected less by race than wealth.  “I love the revitalization; I think it’s great,” said
Brown, who said he wants to see more affordable housing
developed. “But it has to include everyone.”  In neighborhoods near historically black  Howard University ,
the average family income has jumped 36 percent since 2000,
according to  figures compiled  by the  Urban Institute  and the
 Washington DC Local Initiatives Support Corp . While the median
home price has fallen 11 percent from its 2006 peak, at
$399,000, it’s still more than twice what it was at the start of
the decade.  Derrick Hill, 51, who lives in his grandmother’s house in a
Bloomingdale, said he appreciates some of the changes the
increase in wealth has brought, such as the drop in crime.  Rents on Rise  Still, Hill estimated the price of a basement apartment has
jumped to $1,600 from about $300 a decade ago, which has forced
some people to leave.  “It would be nice if they could have more affordable
places to live,” said Hill, an unemployed paralegal, who is
black.  Pettingill, the Georgetown University student, said the
neighborhood is also too costly for her to buy into.  “I can’t afford it,” said Pettingill, who moved to
Washington from Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  But there are perks: As a political science student, she’s
studying the impact of demographic change. She’s getting to see
it firsthand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  