-- 
Wells Fargo Halts Enrollment in Debit-Card Rewards, Citing New U.S. Rules

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-03-25T20:23:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/wells-fargo-halts-enrollment-in-debit-card-rewards-citing-new-u-s-rules.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the bank with
the biggest U.S. branch network, will no longer enroll customers
in debit-card rewards programs following a proposed cap on
interchange fees.  “Due to pending regulatory changes that are expected to
result in a significant reduction in fees retailers pay issuers
for debit-card transactions, Wells Fargo will no longer be
enrolling customers in the debit-card rewards programs,” Lisa
Westermann, a spokeswoman at the San Francisco-based bank, said
in an e-mail.  The change includes both stand-alone programs and those
where customers combine their debit and credit card into a
single program, Westermann wrote. Customers already enrolled in
the program and credit-card holders will not be affected.  Wells Fargo’s change comes in response to a Federal Reserve
rule, required as part of the Dodd-Frank Act approved last year
by Congress and signed by President  Barack Obama , that would cap
the fee card networks can charge merchants at 12 cents a
transaction. It replaces a formula that averages 1.14 percent of
the purchase price or about 44 cents.  The new policy will take effect March 27 for customers with
a Wachovia Corp. account and April 15 for Wells Fargo customers,
according to the e-mail. Wells Fargo purchased Wachovia in 2008
for $12.7 billion.  Wells Fargo offers programs that provide cash back, travel
and merchandise awards, and gift cards among other options for
consumers and businesses, Westermann said in a phone interview.  ‘Make No Sense’  Banks fought passage of the legislation and are working
with lawmakers to derail it. Senator Jon Tester, a Montana
Democrat, is the chief sponsor of a bill that would delay the
rule for two years, and Representative Shelley Moore Capito, a
West Virginia Republican, introduced a similar measure.  If implementation is delayed or squashed, Wells Fargo may
go back to offering the program, or change the policy announced
today, Westermann said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  will stop offering debit-card rewards
for almost all of its customers in July, the bank said this
week. Issuers including the largest banks could lose $12 billion
in annual revenue under the change, scheduled to be implemented
July 21.  Wells Fargo Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf  said limits
on fees charged to merchants for debit-card transactions “make
no sense” and distort free-market economics.  “What’s next?” Stumpf, 57, wrote in his annual letter to
shareholders, released this week. “Will the government require
car dealers to sell a new vehicle for $5,000 or grocers a gallon
of milk for 50 cents?”  Wells Fargo shares have gained 2.8 percent in the past 12
months and increased 40 cents from yesterday’s close to $31.94
at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  