-- 
Wheat Climbs After China Makes Biggest Weekly Purchase in Almost Six Years

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-03-25T02:45:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/wheat-climbs-on-surprise-purchases-from-china-concern-over-dry-weather.html
Wheat futures extended the biggest
advance in a week on unexpected demand from  China  for exports
from the U.S., the world’s largest shipper.  China , the biggest consumer, bought 116,000 metric tons
from the U.S. in the week ended March 17, the most for any week
since July 2005, Department of Agriculture data showed. Wheat in
Zhengzhou jumped to a record last month on speculation that
drought in the country’s growing areas would cut supplies. Rains
and irrigation have partly eased concerns since then.  “Imports will rise by more than 30 percent this year to
top 2 million tons, because we suspect that the local harvest
may be 11 million tons short of the government estimate,”  Li
Qiang , managing director of Shanghai JC Intelligence Co., said
in a phone interview today.  Production will be little changed at 115.1 million tons in
the year ending June, the China National Grain and Oils
Information Center predicted this month.  “From a regional standpoint, if China’s having a problem
in their central and northern growing belts, it would probably
show up first in wheat” crops because the growing season is
earlier than corn, said Mike Zuzolo, the president of Global
Commodity Analytics & Consulting in Lafayette,  Indiana . China
also may be buying to cool food inflation, he said.  Wheat futures for May delivery climbed 0.6 percent to
$7.4425 a bushel at 10:33 a.m. in Beijing today after yesterday
increasing 3.5 percent, to $7.395 on the Chicago Board of Trade,
the biggest gain for a most-active contract since March 17.  Price Surge  The price has surged about 56 percent in the past year as
drought spurred  Russia  to ban grain exports, while floods eroded
crops in  Canada  and  Australia . Worldwide food expenses reached a
record last month, the  United Nations  said.  Chinese food costs jumped 11 percent in February from a
year earlier. The country is expected to be self-sufficient in
wheat this year after becoming a net importer in 2010 for the
first time in five years, according to the USDA.  The amount was a “surprise,” said  Larry Glenn , an analyst
at Frontier Ag in Quinter,  Kansas . China in 2010 was a net
importer of corn for the first time in 14 years, USDA data show.  “Based on my experience, if you’re really expecting China
to buy corn, you’d expect them to buy wheat first,” Zuzolo said.
“Their policy is to try to keep more corn in-house, not export
it, but not import it either. Their policy is more prone to
bringing in wheat than it is corn.”  High Quality  China’s purchase announced yesterday included 90,000 tons
of the hard, red spring variety, 20,000 tons of white wheat, and
6,000 tons of soft, red winter wheat, the USDA said. Spring
wheat, grown in the north central and northwest U.S., is used to
make  bread . White wheat is for bread and  noodles , while the soft,
red  winter  variety is for cookies and pastries.  “The Chinese demand for  animal feed  is robust, so China
may import high-quality U.S. wheat for flour and use its own
low-quality varieties as feed,” Shanghai JC’s Li said. “China
is also importing Australian feed wheat these days.”  Futures also gained on speculation the U.S. Great Plains
won’t get sufficient rain to relieve dry conditions, Glenn said.  Texas has its worst drought in 44 years, according to the
state climatologist, and dryness stretches to  Oklahoma ,  Colorado 
and Kansas. Some areas may get 0.5 inch (1.3 centimeters) of
rain in the next week, Commodity Weather Group said.  “We do have some moisture headed at the Plains states, but
I don’t think it’s going to be enough,” Glenn said.  Wheat was the fourth-biggest U.S. crop in 2010 at $13
billion, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  