-- 
WikiLeaks Backers Appeal Ruling Allowing Prosecutors to See Twitter Data

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-25T23:18:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/wikileaks-backers-appeal-ruling-allowing-prosecutors-to-see-twitter-data.html
Three WikiLeaks backers appealed a
magistrate judge’s ruling allowing U.S. prosecutors to review
their Twitter account data in a criminal probe of leaks of
classified information.  The three subscribers whose records are being sought asked
the federal court in Alexandria,  Virginia , to overturn
Magistrate Judge Theresa Buchanan’s March 11 order, claiming it
violates their privacy and First Amendment rights.  “Services like Twitter have information that can be used
to track us and link our communications across multiple services
including Twitter, Facebook and Gmail,” Cindy Cohn, the legal
director of the  San Francisco-based Electronic Frontier
Foundation , said in an e-mailed statement. “The magistrate’s
ruling that users have no ability to protect that information
from the U.S. government is especially troubling.”  The litigation over the Twitter data is the first public
skirmish in the government’s criminal investigation of
WikiLeaks’s leader, Julian Assange, and others who may have
helped leak diplomatic cables and classified military documents
through the WikiLeaks website. Cohn’s group represents Birgitta
Jonsdottir, a member of the Icelandic parliament.  A judge hasn’t been assigned to hear the appeal.  Peter Carr, a spokesman for U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride  in
Alexandria, declined to comment.  Assange, Manning  On March 11, Buchanan upheld her earlier order requiring
Twitter to give investigators data on subscribers “associated
with WikiLeaks,” including Assange, and Bradley Manning, a U.S.
soldier charged with leaking classified information.  In her ruling, Buchanan said the three backers didn’t have
standing to challenge her order because the government wasn’t
seeking the contents of their communications on Twitter.  Prosecutors asked for subscriber names, contact
information, billing records, user activity, Internet Protocol
addresses and source and destination e-mail addresses.  The subscribers challenging the government include Jacob
Appelbaum, a computer security researcher who represented
WikiLeaks at a 2010 hacker’s conference in  New York , and Rop
Gonggrijp, described in court papers as a Dutch activist and
businessman.  The case is In re Application of the U.S. For an Order
Pursuant to 18 USC 2703(d), 11-dm-00003, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  