-- 
Wintek Picks Vietnam for Panel Plant on Lower Labor Costs

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-25T08:06:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/wintek-says-will-invest-100-million-to-150-million-in-vietnam.html
Wintek Corp. (2384) , a Taiwanese maker of
panels for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhones, plans to invest as much as $150
million on a new plant in  Vietnam  to take advantage of lower
labor costs in the Southeast Asian country.  The shares of Wintek climbed 1.8 percent to NT$51.70 at the
1:30 p.m. close of trading in Taipei, the biggest gain since
March 18. The panel maker plans to invest $100 million to $150
million on the plant in northern Vietnam’s Bac Giang province,
Jay Huang, a spokesman for Taichung, Taiwan-based Wintek said by
phone today.  Wintek told the  Bac Giang Industrial Zones Authority  that
it will make touch panels for iPhones and iPads, according to
Nguyen Van Hien, the authority’s chief administrator. Huang
declined to confirm or deny whether the products would be used
in the Apple devices.  “There’s no question this is great news for Vietnam and
great for the Vietnamese economy,” said Than Trong Phuc,
managing director of Ho Chi Minh City-based DFJ Vinacapital
L.P., a technology investment fund. “Multinational companies
are looking for a second country to China where they can
diversify their investments and save on costs.”  The Wintek investment will add to the projects of other
technology companies in Vietnam including Nokia Oyj,  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
and Canon Inc. Nokia said this month it plans to open a plant
with an initial investment of 200 million euros ($283 million)
at a site near Hanoi to make low-end mobile phones.  ‘Moving Up’  “The next step you will see is Vietnam moving up the chain
with products that have added value,” Phuc said.  Labor costs in Vietnam are one-third to 40 percent of those
in China, according to Huang. Wintek’s wage expenses are less
than 10 percent of revenue, he said. Vietnam’s improving
infrastructure was another factor in the company’s decision.  “The major factor in us choosing Vietnam is to reduce
labor costs as compared to  China ,” Huang said. “We have
relatively high capacity in China, which we’ll continue to use
for R&D and high-end manufacturing.”  Wintek received approval from local authorities to invest
as much as $200 million in the past two weeks and expects to
begin manufacturing as early as the third quarter, he said.  The plant will have an initial capacity to produce 10
million thin-film transistor modules a month, and “several
million” touch-panel modules, he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  