-- 
Wisconsin Governor Walker Sued by Unions Challenging Bargaining-Rights Law

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-26T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/wisconsin-governor-walker-sued-by-unions-challenging-bargaining-rights-law.html
Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker  was
sued by two labor unions over a bill restricting collective
bargaining by public employees while a state bureau published
the law after the secretary of state was ordered not to do so.  A union representing public works employees in Wisconsin’s
capital city of Madison and another for firefighters and other
public safety officers seek in the state court complaint filed
yesterday to have the law invalidated.  Walker signed the law March 11 amid public protests outside
the Capitol and after 14 Democratic state senators had boycotted
the legislative session in an attempt to deprive the chamber of
the quorum required to consider measures with a fiscal impact. A
joint committee drawn from both houses severed the measure from
a larger so-called budget repair bill, enabling it to be
considered separately.  “When the senate passed said bill on March 9, 2011, it did
so without the presence of the constitutionally required
quorum,” the union locals said in their complaint.  The legislation, championed by the first-term Republican
governor, requires annual recertification votes for union
representation and makes payment of union dues voluntary.  Wisconsin ’s Legislative Reference Bureau published the law
yesterday, a step toward its enactment.  Stephen Miller , chief of
the  bureau , said in a phone interview that the publication
didn’t mean the law would take effect.  ‘Ministerial Act’  The agency, established to provide bill-drafting and
research services to the Legislature, cited a law requiring it
to publish an act within 10 working days of its approval, and
added a footnote that acknowledged a judge’s March 18 order to
Secretary of State Doug La Follette not to publish the  statute .  “This is a step in the process which is required by state
law,” said Miller, who called it a “a ministerial act.”  The edition of the law printed by his office is then sent
to the secretary of state, whose statutory duty is to publish
notice of it in a newspaper, Miller said.  Walker’s office forwarded a statement yesterday from a
cabinet member saying the law would be put into effect.  “Today the administration was notified that the LRB
published the budget repair bill as required by law,”
Department of Administration Secretary Mike Huebsch said in that
statement. “The administration will carry out the law as
required.”  A Madison lawyer said the publication may present a legal
opening for the governor.  Nobody Really knows’  “Nobody really knows what this means but it appears that
it is at least arguable that the law is now in effect,” said
Robert J. Dreps, a member of the political law practice group at
Godfrey & Kahn SC in Madison. “The other side will argue that
the court has to decide if this was a valid publication.”  Bill Cosh, a spokesman for Republican Attorney General J.B.  Van Hollen , said the  Department of Justice  “will evaluate how
the lawful publication of Act 10 affects pending litigation.”
Cosh declined to comment on the unions’ lawsuit.  The firefighters union said in its complaint that the law’s
exemption for firefighters and police officers creates
“unnecessary conflict among the employees and divisions within
and among public sector labor organizations.”  Cullen Werwie, a spokesman for Walker, didn’t return a
phone message seeking comment on the complaint.  Meetings Allegation  The union complaint was filed in  Dane County  Circuit Court
in Madison. Dane County District Attorney Ismael Ozanne,
claiming lawmakers failed to comply with state open meetings
laws when they drafted the bill, previously sued in the same
court to overturn the law.  On March 18, Judge Maryann Sumi issued a temporary
restraining order blocking La Follette from publishing the law.
Van Hollen asked a state appeals court to set aside that order.
On March 24, a three-judge appeals court panel referred the
issue to the state’s  Supreme Court , which hasn’t said whether it
will take the case.  The union case is Laborers Local 236, AFL-CIO v. State of
Wisconsin, 11cv1421, Dane County, Wisconsin, Circuit Court
(Madison).  The prosecutor’s case is State of Wisconsin Ex Rel. Ozanne
v. Fitzgerald, 11cv1244, Dane County, Wisconsin, Circuit Court
(Madison). The appellate case is Ozanne v. Fitzgerald,
2011AP613-LV, Wisconsin Court of Appeals, District 4 (Madison).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  