-- 
Woodside Rises on Speculation Shell Stake Will Be Resolved

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-03-25T13:29:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/woodside-rises-after-speculation-of-royal-dutch-shell-swap-1-.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  rose in
Sydney amid speculation  Australia ’s second-biggest oil and gas
producer is close to resolving how  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  will
dispose of its remaining stake in the company.  Woodside climbed 2.6 percent to A$46.72 at the 4:10 p.m.
close, compared with a gain of 0.9 percent for the benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index. The shares earlier increased as much as 5.6
percent to A$48.11, the most since Aug. 20, 2009.  The potential for an asset swap with Shell “is getting
people excited,” said  Tim Schroeders , a Melbourne-based money
manager at Pengana Capital Ltd., which manages about $1 billion.  Woodside could exchange stakes in liquefied natural gas
projects for Shell’s remaining shares in the company, worth more
than A$8 billion ($8 billion), analysts led by Sydney-based
David Heard at Bank of America Merrill Lynch wrote March 18.
Under such a deal, Woodside may swap a 30 percent stake in the
Pluto LNG project, an 18.5 percent stake in the Browse venture
and 20.7 percent of the Sunrise development, the report said.  Michelle Grady, a spokeswoman for Woodside, and Vera
Surzhenko, a spokeswoman for Shell in  London , both declined to
comment.  ‘Working Together’  The assets-for-stock swap with Shell would help Woodside by
lowering its spending requirements for the LNG projects, Heard
wrote. Shell is also a “very powerful ally in LNG” with
expertise in supplying fuel and in technology, the analyst said.
Investors have been concerned Shell would sell further Woodside
shares at a discount to institutional investors, according to
the report.  “We give substantial weight to the likelihood of a more
attractive outcome achieved by Shell and Woodside working
together,” Heard wrote in an earlier March 14 report.  The most likely outcome is a sale of Shell’s remaining 24
percent stake to a “strategic investor,” said  John Hirjee , a
Melbourne-based analyst at Deutsche Bank. Some investors today
speculated  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Australia’s largest oil and gas
producer, was interested in Woodside shares, Hirjee said.  “It would make sense if it went to a strategic investor,
but whether that’s BHP or another entity, we’ll have to wait and
see,” he said. A Japanese buyer is possible, he said, “because
 Japan  could have a link to a major supplier of Australian LNG.”  ‘Attractive Proposition’  Woodside is being “proactive” with Shell about its
remaining shares in the Australian company, after  Europe ’s
largest oil company sold a 10 percent stake last year, Chief
Executive Officer Don Voelte said last month. Shell sold that
holding in Woodside for about $3.3 billion in November.  Voelte said Feb. 21 he hoped there would be “no
surprises” regarding Shell’s remaining stake.  Selling shares to a national  oil company  or LNG buyer is an
option, Merrill Lynch’s Heard said. “Woodside, with its
significant resource base and pipeline of LNG projects could be
seen as an attractive investment proposition and/or alliance
partner,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  