-- 
WTO to Probe Chinese Duties on Credit Cards, American Steel

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-03-25T16:22:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/wto-to-investigate-chinese-duties-on-credit-cards-u-s-steel.html
World Trade Organization judges
agreed to rule on the legality of Chinese anti-dumping duties on
U.S. steel products and restrictions on companies such as  Visa
Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  that process credit-card payments.  The U.S. is protesting limits on payment processing because
China favors a monopoly provider, China UnionPay Data Co., and
prohibits foreign companies from issuing their own bank cards
denominated in its currency, building networks to support such
cards or handling interbank point-of-sale transactions.  Foreign banks must “co-brand” with Chinese operators to
supply these services and execute payments through UnionPay. The
U.S. says the rules conflict with the pledge China made when it
joined the WTO in 2001 to open up its credit- and debit-card
markets to foreign processing companies by the end of 2006.  WTO judges in Geneva will also rule on the legality of
dumping duties China applied to more than $200 million of
American-made steel products. The complaint involves dumping and
countervailing duties China has placed on flat-rolled electrical
steel, which is produced by companies such as  West Chester ,
Ohio-based  AK Steel Holding Corp. (AKS) , the third-largest U.S.
steelmaker.  China, which has the world’s biggest steel market, said in
2009 it would impose anti-dumping and subsidy levies of as much
as 25 percent on flat-rolled electrical steel products, used in
transformers, reactors and electric machines. China said the
duties aim to counter below-cost or “dumped” imports.  Heads, Tails  “The trade remediation process is like everything else in
China,” said  Michelle Applebaum , a lecturer at Lake Forest
College in  Chicago  and equity analyst at Steel Market
Intelligence. “Those charged with trade violations have no due
process, no explanation of the charges and penalties and no
opportunity for defense. The Chinese government rules by fiat,
and it’s ‘heads I win, tails you lose.’”  The U.S. says  China  didn’t follow WTO procedures by failing
to disclose the facts underlying its legal conclusions and not
explaining its calculations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  