-- 
Yakuza Salivate Over New Construction Paradise: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-03-25T03:41:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/yakuza-salivating-over-new-construction-boom-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
Here’s a number for economists
mulling  Japan ’s post-earthquake trajectory: 17.  That’s Japan’s ranking out of 178 nations in  Transparency
International ’s latest corruption perception index, putting it
on a par with Barbados. The odds strongly favor Japan sliding
down the list in the next few years. A sudden return to
“concrete economics” in a nation that’s tried to shake the
phenomenon virtually ensures the return of large-scale graft.  An estimated $309 billion in earthquake and tsunami damage
may prompt formation of a reconstruction agency modeled after
the Economic Stabilization Board created in the wake of the
devastation of World War II.  That board helped power Japan’s postwar boom, one largely
built on building. Massive public-works projects that
transformed Japan also gave rise to a construction-industrial
complex and some notable side effects: surging public debt, a
heyday for mobsters and graft. These side effects are about to
swell again.  To jolt gross domestic product properly, Japanese officials
must not only spend wisely, but impose unprecedented levels of
accountability in the process. Money is tight given Japan’s
fiscal position. And if  Stephen Roach , nonexecutive chairman of
Morgan Stanley  Asia , is right, any boost from rebuilding may
just fade into another “lost decade.”  Graft Boom  The reason is the inefficiency inherent in Japan’s economic
system. Spending public funds unwisely limits the multiplier
effect, whereby stimulus trickles down and helps households. The
nexus between politicians, contractors and yakuza also is where
economic reforms go to die. Graft at the highest levels keeps
Japan from raising its economic game.  The opportunity to line one’s pocket is a powerful force,
and creates a kind of tunnel vision. As Japan plans the needed
rebuilding, it must consider the wisdom of lavish spending to
recreate communities that were losing relevance before March 11
and are directly in harm’s way for the next tsunami. Huge,
costly seawalls proved little help.  These considerations require careful reflection, and they
will get short shrift as money begins to flow freely. Japan has
long needed to channel money away from construction into more
productive pursuits that boost its competitiveness in the age of
 China . Those efforts, including joining U.S.-led trade talks and
empowering entrepreneurs, are now on the backburner.  Yakuza Ban  Government and business leaders worked steadily in recent
years to sever deep and shadowy ties between organized crime and
corporate Japan. The  construction industry  has been a particular
focus, as evidenced by a complete ban on yakuza involvement in
one particularly high-profile project: the 2,080-foot (634-meter)
 Tokyo Sky Tree  tower.  The campaign reflects public discontent with Japan’s
estimated 80,000 yakuza, who control a critical mass of the
underbelly of Japan Inc. There’s a growing realization that in a
sluggish, deflationary economy, gangsters add costs. They also
thrive in industries -- including sex, drugs and gambling --that
the  National Policy Agency  would rather do without.  Japan’s ever-entrepreneurial crime syndicates diversified
into real estate, technology companies and stock dealing. Still,
construction holds a special place in the yakuza heart and that
magnitude-9.0 quake will prove very good for business. Expect a
building boom like few others in modern Japanese history, with
gangsters lining up to get their share.  The Big Nexus  “The nexus of massive construction projects, bureaucrats,
politicians, businessmen and yakuza are as revealing about Japan
as they are about Italy and  Russia ,”  Jeff Kingston  wrote in his
2010 book “ Contemporary Japan .” “In Japan, the yakuza cut on
construction projects is estimated at 3 percent, a vast sum that
keeps them afloat, given that during the 1990s the public-works
budget was on par with the U.S. Pentagon’s budget and remains
quite high despite huge cutbacks.”  Well, happy days are here again. The billions Japan plans
to spend rebuilding is just the beginning. Disaster-damage
estimates always start on the conservative side. And given how
Japan’s Goodfellas are being squeezed from all angles, expect an
all-guns-blazing effort to boost their 3 percent take.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  says he wants construction crews
at work in quake-ravaged areas as soon as possible. The desire
to get infrastructure projects underway will shorten and
simplify the bidding process, probably concentrating projects
among politically connected builders.  Concrete Economics  What worries me is the  bull market  in graft. True, the
 Liberal Democratic Party  is no longer calling the shots. In 54
years of virtually uninterrupted rule that ended in August 2009,
the LDP turned concrete economics into an art form.  It was financed by ever-rising public debt, which is now
twice the size of the economy. Any growth jolt from public works
is temporary. When the project ends, so do the jobs. That’s why
Japan perpetually paves roads with no potholes, builds bridges
to nowhere and litters shorelines with concrete. Pouring cement
wins you votes.  Kan’s  Democratic Party of Japan  pledged to break Japan’s
construction-industrial complex. It’s reviewing dam and other
huge public works it deems wasteful. The quake reconstruction
process will test that commitment. Transparency International’s
perception, too.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  