-- 
Yale's Anderson Keeps Eyes on NCAA Hockey Title With Thoughts on JPMorgan

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-03-25T14:09:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/yale-s-anderson-keeps-eyes-on-ncaa-hockey-title-with-thoughts-on-jpmorgan.html
Jeff Anderson, a senior forward on
the  Yale University  men’s hockey team, isn’t waiting for a call
from the  New York Rangers  or  Detroit Red Wings . He already has
been drafted by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Anderson, 23, interned with JP Morgan Chase last summer and
will forgo an opportunity to play hockey professionally to join
the firm’s sales and trading department after graduation this
spring. For now, he said his focus is on tonight’s start to the
 National Collegiate Athletic Association  tournament, where the
Bulldogs are four wins from the school’s first national title.  “This is an exciting time, especially considering where we
were as freshmen,” Anderson said in a telephone interview. “We
are a well-rounded team that is dangerous offensively, but also
solid on defense.”  Anderson joined a Bulldogs team in 2007 that was 11-17-3 in
its previous season and hadn’t made it past the ECAC Hockey
quaterfinals in nine years. Yale has since won two conference
championships and now has qualified for three straight NCAA
tournaments, a program record.  The Bulldogs (27-6-1) achieved the school’s first No. 1
national ranking on Dec. 6 and earned the overall top seed in
college hockey’s national tournament. Yale opens the single-
elimination event against the U.S. Air Force Academy in the East
Regional in Bridgeport,  Connecticut .  The Bulldogs lead all Division I teams in both offense and
defense. Yale scores 4.29 goals a game and allows 2.00 goals a
game. The team won the  ECAC Hockey  conference championship last
weekend in  Atlantic City ,  New Jersey , by outscoring Colgate
University and  Cornell University  by a cumulative score of 10-0.  Anderson’s ‘Hardest Decision’  A native of Port Coquitlam, British Columbia, Anderson
played three years of junior hockey in  Canada  before attending
Yale. He said that even though there are a number of
professional hockey opportunities next year, he will end his on-
ice career to pursue other passions, such as finance and
business. He consulted family, friends and colleagues on what he
said was the hardest decision of his life.  “An opportunity with JPMorgan does not come along every
day, and if I pursued hockey, I don’t know if it would be around
in the future,” Anderson said.  Jack Morrison, who graduated in 1967 as Yale’s career
scoring leader, made a similar decision. Morrison, 65, played
alongside Herb Brooks while leading the U.S. hockey team in
scoring at the 1968 Olympics in Grenoble,  France . He opted to
attend  Harvard Business School  instead of playing professional
hockey.  “Do I ever regret it? Yes, I do,” Morrison said in a
telephone interview. “You always wonder whether you could have
made it professionally.”  Morrison’s Resume  Morrison worked on  Wall Street  at Kidder, Peabody & Co.
after graduating from Harvard, and in 1989, co-founded  Goldner
Hawn Johnson & Morrison Inc. , an investment firm in  Minneapolis .
Morrison, the managing director of the firm’s investment team,
still plays hockey three times a week, and said he is both proud
and impressed when he watches the 2010-11 Bulldogs.  “They are not terribly big, but most of them are smaller
forwards that can really fly and they move the puck awfully
well,” Morrison said.  This is Yale’s fifth overall appearance in the NCAA
tournament, where the team is 2-4. Last year the Bulldogs
advanced to the NCAA regional finals, where they lost 9-7 to
 Boston College , the eventual national champion. Yale junior
forward Charles Brockett, who will intern in the securities
department at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  this summer, said that
experience will benefit the team.  ‘Been Here Before’  “We have a team loaded with upperclassmen who have been
here before,” Brockett said in a telephone interview. “We know
how hard it is to win this thing and we know what we need to do
to prepare.”  The team is led by sophomore forward Andrew Miller and
junior forward Brian O’Neill, who have combined for 30 goals and
59 assists. Senior goaltender Ryan Rondeau, the ECAC Hockey
Championships Most Outstanding Player, leads the nation with a
1.83 goals-against average and is second with a .932 save
percentage.  The Bulldogs have scored three or more goals in six
straight games, and have lost once in 10 games since Feb. 11.
Brockett, 22, said the team is more focused now than it has been
at any other point this season.  “We went into this season with one goal in mind, and
that’s winning the national championship,” Brockett said. “We
are going to be disappointed unless that happens.”  Title Game  If Yale wins tonight, it will play either Union College,
based in Schenectady,  New York , or the University of  Minnesota 
Duluth tomorrow. The NCAA tournament finishes with the national
championship game on April 9 in Saint Paul, Minnesota.  Anderson said he tries not to think about Yale’s next loss
likely being his last competitive hockey game. Instead, he said
that he and the Bulldogs remain driven toward the goal they set
at the beginning of the season.  “That would mean more than anything I have accomplished in
my life,” Anderson said. “I don’t think there could be any
better way to go out than to win that national title.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  