-- 
Yuan Concludes Weekly Gain on Speculation China to Allow Gains

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-03-25T09:09:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/yuan-concludes-weekly-gain-on-speculation-china-to-allow-gains.html
China ’s yuan advanced, completing
its biggest weekly gain this month, on speculation the central
bank will tolerate further appreciation to cool inflation.  People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  “admitted
that further monetary tightening needs to occur,” Morgan
Stanley Asia non-executive chairman  Stephen Roach  said
yesterday, citing comments made at a meeting between the two
this week. The central bank set the  reference rate  0.07 percent
higher at 6.5580 per dollar, the strongest level since July
2005.  “The firmer fixing reflects a drive by China to strengthen
its currency to fight imported inflation,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior economist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong .
“At the same time, China may not want faster currency
appreciation to be too obvious because that will invite
speculation.”  The yuan gained 0.06 percent today and 0.18 percent this
week to 6.5576 per dollar at the end of trading in  Shanghai ,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The
currency touched 6.5552 per dollar on March 22, the strongest
level since the country unified official and market exchange
rates at the end of 1993.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.07 percent to
6.439 per dollar as of 4:45 p.m. in Hong Kong, reflecting bets
the yuan will strengthen 1.8 percent in a year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Consumer Prices  The central bank has raised benchmark lending and deposit
rates three times since the middle of October. The monetary
authority ordered banks to set aside more cash as reserves on
March 18, the third time it has done so this year.  Consumer prices rose 4.9 percent in February from a year
earlier, exceeding the government’s annual target of 4 percent,
the statistics bureau said on March 11. Prices gained 4.9
percent in January.  The nation will rely on price tools to implement monetary
policy, and  interest rates  will be at the “core” of that
strategy, Zhang Xiaohui, director of the monetary policy
department of the People’s Bank of China wrote in a commentary
posted on its website yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  