-- 
Hyundai Merchant Climbs in Seoul as Shareholders Reject Higher Share Limit

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-03-25T09:19:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/hyundai-merchant-climbs-in-seoul-as-shareholders-reject-higher-share-limit.html
Hyundai Merchant Marine Co., the
biggest unit of South Korea’s  Hyundai Group , surged in  Seoul 
trading after shareholders rejected a proposal to increase the
preferred stock sales limit, raising speculation it may become a
takeover target.  Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., owner of a 23.8 percent stake
in South Korea’s second-biggest shipping line, and three other
companies with holdings voted against the plan at a shareholders
meeting, Hyundai Group said in a statement today.  The opposition by Hyundai Heavy and companies owned or
managed by family members of the divided Hyundai empire signals
that the company intends to take over Hyundai Merchant,
according to Hyun Jeong Eun’s Hyundai Group.  “The action by Hyundai Heavy today shows that Hyundai
Heavy hasn’t given up its ambition to take over Hyundai
Merchant,” Hyundai Group said in the statement. “They have
also blocked Hyundai Merchant’s plan to invest in the future and
that could eventually undermine shareholders’ value.”  Hyundai Elevator,  South Korea ’s largest maker of lifts,
today said it will buy about 1.3 million Hyundai Merchant shares
to increase its stake to 22.62 percent. The purchase is to
ensure management control of the shipping line, the company said
in a regulatory filing.  Shares Climb  Hyundai Merchant gained 3.1 percent to close at 33,200 won
in Seoul, bringing its surge this week to 18 percent, its
biggest weekly advance since June. Hyundai Elevator Co., the
biggest single shareholder of the shipping line and a unit of
Hyundai Group, climbed 3.3 percent to 110,000 won.  Hyun took over the management of Hyundai Group after her
husband Chung Mong Hun committed suicide in 2003. She lost to
her brother-in-law and Chairman of  Hyundai Motor Group ,  Chung Mong Koo , in a bidding contest for control of Hyundai
Engineering & Construction Co. earlier this year.  Hyundai Heavy, Hyundai Department Store Co.,  Hyundai
Development Co. (012630)  and  KCC Corp. (002380)  rejected the plan to increase the
limit of preferred shares to 80 million from 20 million, Hyundai
Group said. KCC is owned by Chung Mong Koo’s uncle.  “We opposed the plan because it wouldn’t be in the best
interest of the shareholders, nothing more or less,” Hyundai
Heavy said today in an e-mailed statement. “If the company
really needs the money, they can always use the 120 million of
common shares available to them.”  Hyundai Merchant planned to use the funds to expand its
fleet to compete against bigger rivals such as A.P. Moeller-
Maersk A/S and Orient Overseas (International) Ltd., which have
ordered new vessels this year as global trade expands, according
to the Hyundai Group statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  