-- 
Zuma Names Kganyago as Third Deputy Governor at South African Reserve Bank

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-03-25T15:02:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-25/zuma-names-kganyago-as-third-deputy-governor-at-south-african-reserve-bank.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
named Lesetja Kganyago, the current director-general of the
National Treasury, as deputy governor of the Reserve Bank,
strengthening the rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee.  Kganyago’s appointment takes effect from May 16 and Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan  will start a process to seek his
replacement at the Treasury, Zuma told reporters in  Pretoria 
today.  Kganyago, 45, earned the respect of investors and business
executives for his management of the budget, government
borrowing and fiscal policy while at the Treasury. He will join
the other six members of the Monetary Policy Committee, which
decided yesterday to leave the benchmark interest rate unchanged
at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent.  “The Reserve Bank’s gain is the National Treasury’s
loss,” said Andre Roux, head of fixed income at Cape Town-based
Investec Asset Management, who worked with Kganyago at the
Treasury in 1998-99. “He’ll be an interesting contributor and
important member of the Monetary Policy Committee. I don’t think
he’s a huge hawk, but neither is the MPC.”  Kganyago replaces Renosi Mokate, who left her position as
deputy governor after her contract expired on July 31 last year.
The other two deputy governors are Xolile Guma, who has been in
the position since 2001, and  Daniel Mminele , who was appointed
in June 2009.  Banking Passion  “I’ve been at the National Treasury a very long time,”
Kganyago told reporters today. “Banking has always been my
passion. I’m glad that the president has given me the
opportunity to serve my country again.”  Governor  Gill Marcus , who took over from Tito Mboweni in
November 2009, told reporters today that the deputy governors
will have “very specific portfolios,” without giving details
of Kganyago’s responsibilities. The areas of expertise will be
decided in consultation with other governors, she said.  Kganyago’s contract at the Treasury, which began in January
2004, was renewed for two years last year, when he indicated
that it would be his last term in the position.  He was at the  Reserve Bank  for two years before joining the
Treasury in 1996 and in his early career worked for the  Congress
of South African Trade Unions , the country’s largest labor
federation, and the ruling  African National Congress .  “Whoever is appointed to replace Kganyago as director-
general will have some very big shoes to fill,” Peter Attard
Montalto, an economist at Nomura Plc in  London , said in a e-mail
note to clients. “It will be a crucial decision to maintain the
National Treasury’s credibility.”  Strength in Depth  Gordhan has experienced personnel at the Treasury with
which to fill Kganyago’s post, Investec’s Roux said. Possible
candidates include Lungisa Fuzile, who is head of assets and
liability management, and Phakamani Hadebe, interim chief
executive officer at the state-owned  Land Bank , Roux said. Kuben Naidoo, head of the budget office who is currently seconded to
the National Planning Commission, is also a likely candidate, he
said.  “They do seem to have quite a lot of depth in the National
Treasury,”  Kevin Lings , an economist at Stanlib Asset
Management in Johannesburg. “I wouldn’t think they would have
to find somebody outside.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 