-- ADM Said to Consider Dallas for Headquarters Relocation
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-10-14T20:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/adm-said-to-consider-dallas-for-headquarters-relocation.html
Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , the
world’s largest corn processor, is considering Dallas among
other U.S. cities as it looks to move its global headquarters
from Decatur,  Illinois , according to a person familiar with the
situation.  ADM’s site selection team visited Dallas on Oct. 8,
according to the person who asked not to be identified because
the talks are private. ADM executives visited other cities last
week, including  Minneapolis  and Atlanta, and  Chicago  is also
being considered, the person said.  ADM said last month that after 44 years in central Illinois
it’s looking for a location where international travel is easier
for employees. It plans to relocate about 100 corporate jobs
while keeping Decatur, located 180 miles (290 kilometers)
southwest of Chicago, as its North American headquarters.  The company, which sells crops and other products in more
than 140 countries, announced plans last year to expand into
Australia with a A$3.4 billion ($3.2 billion)  takeover  of grain
handler GrainCorp Ltd. ADM has more than 30,000 employees,
according to its website.  “As we have said, we’re considering a number of locations
and talking with various public officials,”  David Weintraub , an
ADM spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement today.  Illinois Credits  ADM has had discussions with officials in Illinois about
potentially locating its global headquarters in Chicago. ADM
Chief Financial Officer Ray Young said at an Illinois House
Revenue and Finance Committee hearing on Oct. 1 that the company
was seeking $1.2 million in annual tax credits for 20 years from
the state. Illinois Democratic Governor  Pat Quinn  won’t consider
any special legislation with tax credits for ADM until the state
accomplishes pension reform, spokeswoman Brooke Anderson said.  Along with an international airport, Dallas and the
surrounding region is home to several ADM customers including
Kimberly-Clark Corp. and Dean Foods Co. Dallas is the ninth-largest city in the U.S. and the third-largest in Texas,
according to the website of the  Dallas Convention & Visitors
Bureau .  ADM officials were in Minneapolis on Oct. 7,  Mike Brown , a
spokesman for the nonprofit Minneapolis St. Paul Regional
Economic Development Partnership, said in a phone interview
today. He declined to comment further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  