-- Africa Security Said by Ibrahim to Lag Behind Development
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-10-14T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/africa-security-said-by-ibrahim-to-lag-behind-development.html
Most African nations are failing to
match developmental gains with improved security for their
citizens, increasing the risk of social discord, a  Mo Ibrahim
Foundation  study of governance on the continent found.  While an overall governance index has improved in 46 of 52
African countries since 2000, just 20 advanced when it came to
safety and upholding the rule of law, the foundation said in an
annual assessment released today. The London-based foundation
was started in 2006 by Mo Ibrahim, 67, the billionaire founder
of telecommunications company Celtel International BV.  Mauritius retained its position as  Africa ’s best-governed
country last year in the 2013 Ibrahim Index of African
Governance, which measures performance for 2012. Botswana was
second, followed by Cape Verde, Seychelles and  South Africa .
Somalia scored the lowest, followed by the  Democratic Republic 
of Congo, Eritrea, the Central African Republic and  Chad .
Ninety-four percent of people living in Africa now live in a
country that has demonstrated overall governance improvement
since 2000. Ibrahim said in his forward to the report.  While “the findings highlight widespread improvements
across the continent,” Ibrahim wrote. “Average scores in the
safety and rule of law category have declined. If this
deterioration is not turned around it could signal an era where,
despite fewer regional conflicts, we will see an increase in
domestic social unrest.”  The assessment, released for the seventh consecutive year,
uses data from 32 independent, external sources to gauge factors
including the extent to which human rights and economic
stability are upheld.  Fund Criteria  Africa-focused funds are increasingly incorporating the
assessment into their investment decision-making process, as
evidenced by its inclusion in  Barclays Plc’s (BARC)  latest  emerging
markets  focus report, Elizabeth McGrath, the index’s director,
said by phone from  London .  Eighteen countries were accorded their best-ever index
score for overall governance last year, with Liberia, Angola and
 Sierra Leone  posting the biggest improvements. Conditions
deteriorated most in Madagascar, Eritrea and Guinea Bissau.  A measure of human development on the continent rose an
average 10.2 index points, while a gauge of sustainable economic
opportunities gained 5.6 points and one for participation and
human rights advanced 3.2 points. The measure for safety and the
rule of law slid 1.1 points.  Decision-Making  Countries have become increasingly interested in their
rankings, with officials from Rwanda, Senegal and Djibouti
approaching the foundation to get a better understanding of how
they can utilize the index in their decision-making, Sophie
Masipa, the foundation’s head of communications, said by phone
from London.  Ibrahim has also set up a $5 million prize for former
African heads of state who have exhibited excellence in
leadership. Previous winners include former Mozambican leader
Joaquim Chissano and Botswana’s ex-president, Festus Mogae. The
prize wasn’t awarded last year because the judges didn’t
identify a suitable recipient. This year’s winner will be
announced later today.  Sudanese-born Ibrahim started Celtel in 1998 and built it
into Africa’s third-largest mobile phone company. Zain,  Kuwait ’s
largest mobile-phone provider, previously known as Mobile
Telecommunications Co., bought 85 percent of Celtel for $3.4
billion in 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at   nseria@bloomberg.net  