-- Air France Said to Resist Buying Shares to Aid Alitalia
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-10-14T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/air-fr.html
Air France-KLM (AF)  Group is leaning
against participating in a capital increase at Alitalia SpA as
it seeks to preserve funds and the Italian airline shows no sign
of a turnaround, three people familiar with the talks said.  While Air France-KLM directors on Alitalia’s board support
a rescue to avert a bankruptcy of the Rome-based carrier, the
French airline is resisting the purchase of new stock, said the
people, who asked not to be identified as the talks are private.
Air France-KLM, whose 25 percent stake would drop by more than
half if it doesn’t subscribe to a capital increase, has about a
month to decide.  The capital increase is part of a 500 million-euro ($677
million) bailout engineered under government supervision last
week as Alitalia’s reserves dwindled, competition intensifies
and its fuel supplier threatened to halt deliveries. Air France-KLM itself lost money last year and is eliminating thousands of
jobs to turn around domestic operations, raising objections to
fund a partner that has been unprofitable for years.  “Alitalia has a persistent track record of losses and
requirements for new capital,” said Damian Brewer, an analyst
at  RBC Capital Markets . “So if Air France refrains from putting
cash in, so what? The dilution’s done. But in most investors’
minds, it’s already written down to zero.”  Air France-KLM’s stake in Alitalia, acquired in 2009, would
require the airline to commit about 75 million euros to anchor
its holding. The capital increase will comprise 300 million
euros of the package.  Little Appetite  Alitalia’s board met yesterday. Cedric Leurquin, a
spokesman for Air France, declined to comment. The airline’s
stance on Alitalia is preliminary and the company may reconsider
its commitment if conditions change, two of the people said.  The French airline gave a taste of its reluctance for an
Italian bailout in September, when the board met to consider
raising its stake and ended up saying it needed more information
from its Italian partner before making a decision.  Italy ’s postal company Poste Italiane SpA agreed to
contribute 75 million euros,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP)  will guarantee as much as 100 million euros for eventual
unopted rights in the capital increase for Alitalia, which is
losing 1.5 million euros a day.  Failure to invest now would dilute Air France’s stake to
about 11 percent, Transport Minister Maurizio Lupi said Oct. 13
in a televised interview with SkyTg24. It would also strip from
Air France the veto powers it now has against decisions on major
partnerships with other airlines, the minister said.  Partners  Air France in 2009 paid 323 million euros for 25 percent of
the Italian airline, which had gone bankrupt and was given a
fresh start stripped of its debt, merging its assets with those
of Air One SpA.  Regardless of its stake in  Alitalia , Air France as a
partner in the Skyteam alliance can still reap the benefits of
pulling passengers from Italy through Paris or Amsterdam for
long-haul flights to other parts of the world.  Alitalia has suffered on both short- and long-haul. On
domestic and European routes, competition has mounted from
 EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , which has doubled its presence in Italy since 2008
to 24 aircraft and1 40 routes from 17 Italian airports.  On long-distance flights, Alitalia’s offerings have
weakened to a point that Emirates now also serve the Milan-New York route.  There may exist limited incentive for Air France-KLM to
invest further in Alitalia, given the carrier’s precarious
condition and little risk of a competitive overture that would
push Air France aside, said  Yan Derocles , an analyst at Oddo
Securities in Paris, who has a “neutral” rating on Air France.  “Air France can afford to pass up investing on this
occasion,” said Derocles. “In the next six to 12 months it’s
hard to imagine any other airline operator having an interest in
Alitalia, so there’s no credible threat out there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  