-- Taiwan Says Military Trust With China Is Premature After Report
-- B y   Y u - H u a y   S u n   a n d   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2013-10-14T13:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/taiwan-says-military-trust-with-china-is-premature-after-report.html
Taiwan  will keep building its
defenses against  China  and focus on economic rather than
military exchanges because its cross-strait rival hasn’t given
up the use of force against the island.  The issue of building mutual trust with China’s military is
“highly sensitive,” Taiwan’s Mainland Affairs Council, the
government agency that handles China issues, said in an e-mailed
statement. China and Taiwan can start military exchanges,
China’s official Xinhua News Agency reported Oct. 12 after a
peace forum was held in  Shanghai .  Chinese President Xi Jinping said at the APEC meeting in
Bali this month China and Taiwan should resolve their political
impasse rather than pass it on to the next generation. The two
sides of the  Taiwan Strait  have been governed separately since
1949 after Chiang Kai-shek’s Kuomintang fled to the island
during a civil war with Mao Zedong’s Communist party. Since
Taiwan President Ma Ying-jeou’s election in 2008, cross-strait
negotiators have pursued direct transportation links, the
lowering of investment barriers and the sale of Chinese
currency-denominated financial products in Taiwan.  China has more than 1,100 short-range ballistic missiles
aimed at Taiwan, according to a U.S. defense department  report .
Taiwan’s defense ministry said in its annual report released
this month China could successfully invade Taiwan by 2020 as it
gains military strength and develops technology to prevent
allies such as the U.S. from coming to the island’s aid.  Military cooperation suggestions are premature, Taiwan
Ministry of National Defense spokesman David Lo said by phone
today. Taiwan’s Ma said in his National Day address on Oct. 10
that the two sides should build political trust through
communication.  The issue of military trust should be considered when there
is public consensus in Taiwan, the MAC said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net ;
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  