-- Al Jazeera, AT&T Wrongly Kept Terms Secret, Judge Rules
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-10-14T18:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/al-jazeera-at-t-are-improperly-keeping-terms-secret-judge-says.html
Al Jazeera  and AT&T Inc. improperly
kept secret the terms of their dispute that led the cable
operator to drop the Qatar-based broadcaster’s new U.S. channel
and the news service to file a lawsuit, a judge ruled.  Judge Sam Glasscock III of Delaware Chancery Court told the
network today to release most of the contract data within five
business days.  “I find that, with minor exceptions, neither party has
shown ‘good cause’ to maintain confidential treatment of the
redacted complaint,” Glasscock wrote. “Those who decide to
litigate in a public forum (rather than pursue a private
dispute-resolution procedure) must do so in a manner consistent
with the right of the public to follow and monitor the
proceedings.”  AT&T Inc. (T) , the largest U.S. phone company, was sued by Al
Jazeera over its refusal to carry the broadcaster’s new U.S.
cable-news channel as part of its pay-television service.
Several media outlets including  Bloomberg News  challenged the
secrecy in court filings.  At a September hearing, lawyers argued that terms of
agreements are proprietary and shouldn’t be made public for
competitors to see.  “Al Jazeera is evaluating its options and declines to
comment at this time,” said lawyer  John Reed , who represents
the company in the case.  Mark A. Siegel, a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mailed message seeking comment on
the ruling.  U-Verse Decision  AT&T’s  U-verse pay-TV service  said Aug. 19 it wouldn’t
carry Al Jazeera America because of disputes over the agreement
between the two broadcasters. U-verse began in 2006 and has
5 million video customers in states such as Texas and
California.  The network, controlled by the Qatari royal family, paid
$500 million for  Al Gore ’s money-losing Current TV in January
and rebranded it.  Buying Current TV gave Al Jazeera America access to about
43 million U.S. homes, less than half of the nation’s pay-TV
homes. The Qatari company also has deals with  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ,
 DirecTV (DTV)  and  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  for BeIN Sport, a group of
channels it owns in France, the U.S. and Canada that have rights
to European soccer leagues.  The case is Al Jazeera LLC v. AT&T Services Inc., CA 8823,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Chancery Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Chancery Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 