-- Alrosa Valued at Up to $8.7 Billion on Price Range Set for Sale
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-10-14T08:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/alrosa-valued-at-up-to-8-7-billion-on-price-range-set-for-sale.html
OAO Alrosa set the  price range  for
its planned share sale at 35 rubles to 38 rubles apiece, valuing
the world’s largest diamond producer at as much as 280 billion
rubles ($8.7 billion).  The offer price will be announced on Oct. 28, Alrosa said
today in a statement. The Russian government and the eastern
Republic of Sakha (Yakutia), where the monopoly’s main mines are
located, are selling a combined 14 percent stake, while Alrosa
will offer about 2 percent in treasury stock.  Russia  is struggling to ramp up an asset sale program aimed
at balancing the budget and attracting investment to its
financial markets, the cheapest among emerging market peers. The
Finance Ministry forecasts budget revenue from sales this year
of about 52 billion rubles.  “The company will be able to sell shares within such a
price range only if it has anchor investors,” Kirill Chuyko,
head of equity research in BCS Financial Group, said by phone.
“The price range is set high, while we expected the company to
offer a discounted 32 rubles to 33 rubles a share, as Alrosa has
no track record and isn’t well-known to investors yet.”  Alrosa rose 1.9 percent to 35.459 rubles by 11:03 a.m. in
Moscow. Within the past month, the shares jumped as much as 19
percent to an almost two-year high of 38.79 rubles on Oct. 2.
Billionaire Suleiman Kerimov, who owned from 1 percent to two
percent of Alrosa, sold his stake on the market about a month
before the share offer, Vedomosti newspaper reported today,
citing people it didn’t identify.  Dividend Boost  To attract investors Alrosa’s supervisory board pledged to
pay no less than 35 percent of net income in annual dividends
starting from payments for this year.  “Alrosa’s decision is aimed at increasing the investment
attractiveness of the company,” First Deputy Prime Minister
 Igor Shuvalov  said of the dividend policy in a separate
statement. Russia’s government won’t sell additional stock in
the company for at least 180 days after the share sale, he said.  Russia plans to maintain control of Mirny-based Alrosa,
which produces a quarter of the world’s diamonds by value and
more rough diamonds than  De Beers  by carat.  State-controlled VTB Capital, acting as a stabilizing
manager in Alrosa’s shares sale, may purchase as much as 10
percent of the offered shares within 30 days of the announcement
of the offer price, Alrosa said today.  The sale will be the second major state asset offered this
year. VTB Group, which owns VTB Capital, sold a $3.3 billion
stake in May, boosting its capital and diluting the state’s
ownership.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan
Stanley and VTB Capital are joint global coordinators and joint
book runners of the offering, while  Renaissance Capital  is a
joint book-runner of the offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  