-- Apple, Google, Pirates, Take-Two: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-10-14T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/apple-google-ugandan-pirates-take-two-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPod and
iPhone, has applied for a patent on a technology that would make
it easier for users of mobile devices to eject their subscriber
identification modules, generally known as “SIM cards.”  According to application  20130267106 , which was published
in the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Oct. 10,
the mobile devices would have an ejector mechanism that would
use a magnet. Presently most users have to unbend a paper clip
and insert one end into a hole in the device to force the
ejection of the module.  Cupertino, California-based Apple says in the application
that eliminating this method would eliminate the problem of
having an opening in the housing “that may allow debris to
enter the housing and impair the functioning of the device.”  The mechanism of ejection would involve the attraction
between a magnet in the tray holding the module and a magnet in
the removable module, according to the application.  Apple applied for the patent in April 2012.  Lodsys, Kaspersky Settle Case; No Money Paid, Kaspersky Says  Lodsys Group, a  Texas  patent holder that has filed more
than 50 infringement lawsuits since 2010, settled a case against
the Russian information security company, Kaspersky Lab.  Marshall, Texas-based Lodsys sued Kaspersky in federal
court in Marshall in May 2012, claiming that two patents related
to the gathering of information from units of a commodity across
a network were infringed.  According to a Sept. 30 court filing, Lodsys and Kaspersky
agree to dismiss all claims and counterclaims, and each side
paid its own litigation costs and attorney fees. The claims were
dismissed with prejudice, which means that they can’t be brought
again.  In a blog  posting , company founder Eugene Kaspersky said
that his company received a demand letter from Lodsys in 2011,
seeking a fee to license the Texas company’s patents.  Kaspersky said that when the infringement suit was filed,
Lodsys was seeking more than $25 million from his company. “We
maintained that we did not infringe any of Lodsys’s patents and
that their claims were invalid,” he said in his blog posting.  The company founder claims that of the 55 companies Lodsys
has sued over the patents at issue, his was the only one that
stuck with the case until the end rather than take a license.
Kaspersky Labs didn’t pay Lodsys anything, he said.  Lodsys did not respond immediately to an e-mail seeking
confirmation of Kaspersky’s claim that no one else took a
license to the disputed patents.  The case is Lodsys Group LLC v. Brother International
Corp., 2:12-cv-00290-JRG, U.S. District Court, Eastern District
of Texas (Marshall).  For more patent news, click here.  For trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Mom Says Her YouTube Video of Son Was Taken, Reposted, Monetized  A resident of California’s rural Butte County has filed a
copyright suit over a video she shot of her toddler son playing
in the bathtub with the family dachshund.  Ashley Candler shot the video in December 2010 and posted
in on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube video-sharing website on Jan. 12,
2011. According to the complaint she filed in federal court in
 Sacramento , California, Oct. 7, the day after she posted the
video, someone copied it and posted it on the sweetfacesjc
YouTube channel.  The person who took the video claimed falsely that she shot
it with her Android phone and that the subject was her nephew,
Candler said in her court papers. The person who took the video
also claimed, falsely, that she was the owner of the copyright.  The video quickly went viral and, by the time the complaint
was filed this month, had been viewed 69 million times,
according to court papers.  Candler said that the person who copied and reposted the
video also monetized it by permitting Google to insert
advertisements into the video to play each time the video is
viewed. Each viewing then nets the poster a payment, Candler
said in her complaint.  In 2012 YouTube simplified the process of monetization by
inserting a button a creator can click when uploading a video to
the site: This will permit YouTube to find potential
advertisers, and the creator will receive around half the
proceeds of the advertisement.  Advertisers paid an estimated $4 billion for YouTube ads in
2012, up 60 percent from 2011, according to RBC Capital Markets
stock analyst Mark Mahaney. He said in April that he expected
the the site to attract $5 billion in ad dollars in 2013.  Candler filed a takedown notice under the Digital
Millennium Copyright Act on May 8, and YouTube disabled the
access to the video on the sweetfacesjc channel the nest day.  After the video was disabled, the operator of that channel
filed a counter-notice, swearing to a good faith belief that the
material was taken down because of a mistake or
misidentification. The counter-notice was included in the case
filing.  Counsel for Candler has since then attempted repeatedly,
with no success, to contact the person accused of taking the
video, according to the complaint.  Candler asked the court to bar further unauthorized use of
her video, and for awards of money damages, attorney fees and
litigation costs. YouTube isn’t a party to the suit.  The case is Candler V. Carter, 2:13-cv-02072, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  California  (Sacramento).  Ugandans Face Trial Over Pirated School Books, Test Papers  Three Ugandans set to go to trial for pirated books and
secondary-school test papers have entered not-guilty pleas, the
AllAfrica.com news website  reported .  They were accused of photocopying and selling copies of
Uganda National Education Board and Uganda Advanced Certificate
of Education tests and chemistry, biology and mathematics
textbooks without authorization, according to AllAfrica.com.  The suspects allegedly sold the pirated books -- some of
which had missing pages -- and papers through various book
shops, the news website reported.  While three suspects were arrested and entered pleas,
police are still searching for another 10, who reportedly
escaped from the book shops at the time of the raids, according
to AllAfrica.com.  Daz Dillinger Sends Rockstar Games Cease-and Desist Letter  Daz Dillinger, an American rap performer, has sent a cease
and desist letter to  Take-Two Interactive Software Inc. (TTWO) ’s
Rockstar Games unit, claiming the games company is making
unauthorized use of his music, the ContactMusic.com music-industry news website reported.  The performer claims that his “C-Wal” and “Nothin’ But
the Cavi Hit” songs are using in the Rockstar’s Grand Theft
Auto V game, according to ContactMusic.com  He said after he had rejected the games company’s offers of
$4,271 to use the tracks as “offensively low,” the company
went ahead and used his content anyway, the news website
reported.  In his demand letter, Dillinger has asked for a better
offer to license his music or for the recall and destruction of
the more than 15 million copies of the game, according to
ContactMusic.com.  Take-Two didn’t respond immediately to an e-mail seeking
comment on the letter.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Texas Court Says ‘Treasure Map’ Was Protected Trade Secret  In a case related to gas exploration, a Texas appeals court
said a lower court properly found that a so-called “treasure
map” of a gas field was a protected trade secret that was
misappropriated by an oil and gas development company.  The court also affirmed a $4.9 million jury award for lost
profit to the company that had proprietary interest in the data
the map contained. The map covered a reservoir that contained
gas in Zapata County, Texas, that had an estimated value of as
much as $60 million.  In its ruling the appeals court said that the exploration
company’s actions “fell below the generally accepted standards
of commercial morality and reasonable conduct.” The court noted
that, out of line with industry practices, the company didn’t
conduct any independent research of the gas reservoir, and said
that the jury reasonably concluded that the exploration
company’s knowledge of the gas reservoir was obtained through
unauthorized use of the “treasure map.”  The court also found that the exploration company drilled
the reservoir in efforts to deplete it, thus reducing the value
of the map.  The case is Thomas A. Lamont v. Vaquillas Energy Lopeno,
04-12-00219-CV, Texas Court of Appeals, Fourth Court of Appeals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  