-- Arkansas’ Long Named Chairman of College Playoff Committee
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-10-14T17:28:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/arkansas-athletic-director-named-chairman-of-playoff-committee.html
University of Arkansas  athletic
director Jeff Long was named the first chairman of the College
Football Playoff selection committee, which will choose who
participates in the new four-team playoff starting next season.  The 13-member group, to be announced later this week,
includes former Secretary of State  Condoleezza Rice , according
to the  Associated Press  and other media outlets.  “While our committee’s charge is simple, to select and
seed the best teams, admittedly our work will not be easy,”
Long said today in an online video. “Because of their knowledge
of the game, extensive experience and deep-rooted passion for
college football, I’m confident the members who will be
appointed to this committee will work tirelessly to make the
best decisions for college football.”  Other athletic directors who will be included on the panel
are Wisconsin’s Barry Alvarez, Clemson’s Dan Radakovich,
Southern  California ’s Pat Haden and West Virginia’s Oliver Luck,
according to ESPN and the Associated Press.  The rest of the committee will be composed of Rice, retired
U.S. Air Force Lt. Gen. Michael Gould, former Big East
Commissioner Mike Tranghese, former Nebraska football coach Tom Osborne, former Notre Dame football coach Tyrone Willingham,
former NCAA vice president Tom Jernstedt, former USA Today
college sports reporter Steve Wieberg and former NFL quarterback
Archie Manning, ESPN said.  2015 Title  Bill Hancock, executive director of the Bowl Championship
Series and College Football Playoff, declined today in a
telephone interview to comment on the other reported members.
The rest of the committee will be named at a news conference on
Oct. 16 in Irving,  Texas , College Football Playoff organizers
said today in an e-mailed release.  The inaugural playoff title game will be held on Jan. 12,
2015, at AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Texas. Eight regions or
cities have entered bids to host the title game in 2016 or 2017.  ESPN signed a 12-year contract in November to televise the
playoffs and selected other games for an average $470 million
annually, according to ESPN.com. The inaugural semifinal games
will be played Jan. 1, 2015, at the  Rose Bowl  in  Pasadena ,
California and the Sugar Bowl in the Superdome.  -- With assistance from Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington.
Editors: Michael Sillup, Jay Beberman  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  