-- Treasury Bill Rates Jump, U.S. Stocks Fall as Talks Stall
-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a   a n d   A u b r e y   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-10-15T21:06:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/asian-futures-rise-as-yen-holds-decline-while-crude-falls.html
Treasury bill rates surged to the
highest level since the securities were sold in April and U.S.
stocks snapped a four-day rally as lawmakers failed to reach an
agreement to extend the government’s borrowing limit less than
two days before the deadline. Oil fell and gold erased losses.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  dropped 0.7 percent to
1,698.06 at 4 p.m. in  New York  after jumping 3.3 percent in the
previous four sessions. Rates on Treasury bills due Oct. 24
jumped as the U.S. attracted the least demand at weekly bill
auctions since 2009. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 0.8
percent, rising for a fourth day in the longest winning streak
in two months. Oil slid 1.2 percent while gold gained,
rebounding from a three-month low.  Senate talks aimed at ending the government shutdown and
preventing a default are on hold and haven’t broken down while
the House considers its competing plan, said the chamber’s top
leaders. After the close of the market,  Fitch Ratings  placed the
U.S.’s AAA ratings on watch for a possible downgrade, citing the
lack of a deal on the federal debt.  “The markets are trading on every news clip and the
uncertainty is increasing, which is having an unstabilizing
effect in the markets,” Chad Morganlander, a Florham Park, New
Jersey-based portfolio manager at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which
oversees about $130 billion of assets, said by phone. “Everyone
is somewhat over-caffeinated and a bit jittery in part because
of politicians not doing their job.”  The  S&P 500  advanced 3.3 percent in the last four trading
sessions, the biggest four-day rally since January, on optimism
that lawmakers were close to a deal. The index closed yesterday
within 16 points of its Sept. 18  record  of 1,725.52.  Fiscal Standoff  The House will vote as soon as tonight on a bill that would
prevent U.S. borrowing authority from lapsing and end a 15-day
government shutdown, following through on a maneuver that put
Senate talks on hold. The revised House plan would extend
government funding through Dec. 15, rather than Jan. 15, 2014,
in the Senate plan, said Representative Devin Nunes of
California, who had been meeting with leaders.  While the House moves, Senate talks have been put on hold.
The federal government shutdown is in its 15th day and U.S.
borrowing authority will lapse Oct. 17.  The U.S. 10-year Treasury yield rose four basis points to
2.73 percent after reaching 2.74 percent, the highest level
since Sept. 23.  Treasury Bills  The $35 billion in three-month bills were sold at the
lowest bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing the
amount bid with the amount offered, since July 2009. The ratio
for $30 billion six-month bills was the lowest since October
2009. The rate on bills due Oct. 24 rose 20 basis points to 0.46
percent after touching 0.51 percent, the highest since the bills
were sold. The rate was negative as recently as Sept. 27.  “The tension and political risk is driving up bill yields
and people and the nervousness has shown itself in the short
end,” said Aaron Kohli, an interest-rate strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in New York, one of 21 primary dealers that trade
with the Fed.  All 10 group in the S&P 500 fell, with  utility companies 
dropping 1.4 percent. Home Depot Inc. retreated 1.5 percent and
 Procter & Gamble Co . sank 1.5 percent for the biggest slides in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average . FedEx Corp. jumped 4.1 percent
after the world’s largest cargo airline operator announced a
share repurchase program.  Diverted Attention  The fiscal showdown in  Washington  has diverted investor
attention from economic data and corporate earnings. The Federal
Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic index fell to 1.5, a
five-month low, from 6.3 in September. Positive readings signal
expansion in New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern
 Connecticut .  Citigroup Inc., Johnson & Johnson and Coca-Cola Co. are
among the companies in the S&P 500 that released third-quarter
results this morning. Citigroup tumbled 1.5 percent as the
third-biggest  U.S. bank , reported a $3.23 billion profit that
missed analysts’ estimates as bond trading slumped 26 percent
and U.S. mortgage revenue declined.  “If we can get through this political mess, then we can
really start to focus on more fundamental things like
earnings,” Thomas Garcia, head of equity trading at Santa Fe,
New Mexico-based Thornburg Investment Management Inc., said in a
phone interview. His firm manages more than $90 billion. “The
numbers that we are going to start to get for the last month,
you might see a little bit of a slowdown from the government
shutdown.”  Earnings Season  Profits for companies in the S&P 500 probably increased 1.4
percent during the three months while sales rose 2 percent,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The Stoxx 600 climbed to a three-week high as 18 of 19
industries advanced. Rio Tinto Group rose 4.3 percent to lead
mining companies higher after reporting record third-quarter
iron-ore and power-station coal output.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  lost 7.6 percent after saying Chief
Executive Officer Angela Ahrendts will depart for Apple Inc.
Schindler Holding AG tumbled 5.9 percent after the Swiss
elevator maker cut its profit forecast.  The S&P GSCI Index of commodities lost 0.5 percent as 16 of
24 commodities declined. West Texas Intermediate crude dropped
1.2 percent to $101.21 a barrel as Senate talks were put on
hold. Crude futures also fell as world powers held talks with
 Iran  on its nuclear program. Gold for immediately delivery rose
0.7 percent to $1,281.80 an ounce. Earlier, the price fell as
much as 1.6 percent to $1,251.85, the lowest since July 10.  The dollar strengthened versus the euro for the first time
in three days, appreciating 0.3 percent to $1.317 per euro. It
reached $1.3480, the strongest level since Sept. 30, before the
U.S. government shutdown. The dollar sank as much as 0.4 percent
to 98.17 yen before trading at 98.32 yen, down 0.3 percent.
Earlier it touched 98.70 yen, the strongest level since Oct. 1.  Australia Dollar  Australia’s dollar gained as the central bank said in
minutes from its Oct. 1 meeting, when it held borrowing costs at
a record-low 2.5 percent, that it should “neither close off the
possibility of reducing rates further nor signal an imminent
intention to reduce them.”  The Aussie climbed as high as 95.48 U.S. cents, the
strongest level since June 19.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index climbed to a four-month
high, adding 0.7 percent. Benchmark gauges in  Russia ,  South
Africa ,  South Korea  and Taiwan jumped at least 1 percent. The
Malaysian ringgit and South Korean won led currencies higher.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell for the first time in
three days, while the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
mainland companies listed in  Hong Kong  rose 0.9 percent as
trading resumed after yesterday’s holiday. The  yuan  climbed to a
20-year high after the nation’s foreign-exchange reserves
advanced to a record $3.66 trillion as of Sept. 30 in a sign of
capital inflows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka2@bloomberg.net ;
Aubrey Pringle in New York at 
 apringle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  