-- Asian Stocks Decline as U.S. Mired in Debt Stalemate
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-10-14T07:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/asian-stocks-decline-as-u-s-lawmakers-mired-in-debt-stalemate.html
Asian  stocks  fell, with a regional
gauge retreating from a four-month high, as American lawmakers
struggled over an accord to raise the U.S. debt limit and
restore government operations.  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., the assembler of Apple
Inc.’s iPhones and iPads, slid 1.9 percent in Taipei.  Newcrest
Mining Ltd. (NCM) , Australia’s No. 1 gold producer, fell 3.8 percent
as the bullion traded near a three-month low. CSR Corp. and
 China  CNR Corp., the nation’s biggest train makers, jumped by
the 10 percent daily limit in  Shanghai  on speculation they will
win contracts to construct of Thailand’s high-speed rail system.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  dropped 0.3
percent to 471.15 as of 3:17 p.m. in Singapore, with more than
two shares falling for each that rose. Markets in Tokyo and  Hong
Kong  are shut for holidays. With the U.S. borrowing authority
set to lapse Oct. 17, Senate leaders in Washington sought a pact
to avert a default and re-open the government.  “It’s a situation no one wants to be in, causing market
volatility,” said  Angus Gluskie , managing director at White
Funds Management Ltd., where he helps oversee about $550 million
“The two political parties do need to reach an agreement. If
there’s no deal by Thursday, markets will fall further.
Investors are getting a little bit concerned on China after
seeing a couple of weak data points.”  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  was negotiating with
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  after talks between President
 Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner  broke down. Chinese
exports unexpectedly fell in September, data Oct. 12 showed.  Regional Gauges  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index declined 0.4 percent and
Taiwan’s Taiex retreated 0.9 percent. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
lost 0.1 percent and South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  fell 0.2 percent.
The Philippine Stock Exchange Index slid 0.5 percent.  Singapore’s Straits Times Index dropped 0.6 percent. The
nation’s economy shrank an annualized 1 percent in the three
months through September from the previous quarter, when it
expanded a revised 16.9 percent, the Trade Ministry said in a
statement today. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
of 13 economists was for a 4 percent contraction.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.4 percent. The
nation’s consumer prices rose 3.1 percent in September from a
year earlier. That exceeded the 2.8 percent median estimate of
44 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News  and compared with a 2.6
percent gain in August.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, which includes Japan, climbed
1.3 percent last week amid optimism U.S. lawmakers were moving
closer to resolving the debt impasse. The gauge traded at 13.6
times estimated earnings on Oct. 11, compared with 15.4 for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 14.3 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index.  Reid Confident  S&P 500 futures fell 0.8 percent. Reid said he’s “in
conversation” with McConnell and is “confident” Republicans
will agree to end the partial government shutdown and raise the
debt ceiling. McConnell said in a statement that it’s time for
Democrats to support a plan, based on one drafted by Republican
 Susan Collins , which Reid rejected Oct. 12.  The talks are shifting away from Republican efforts to
curtail Obama’s signature health-care law to rescinding a tax on
medical devices to focus on the level of spending and the
duration of the deficit-ceiling extension.  Obama, in a phone call with House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California, “reinforced that there must be a clean
debt limit increase” -- and a stopgap spending measure also
free of policy add-ons -- before budget negotiations can begin,
according to a White House statement.  ‘Nervous Market’  “The market fully expects a deal to be done, but they are
going to be nervous until it’s confirmed,”  Matt McCormick , who
helps oversee $10.1 billion as a portfolio manager at
Cincinnati, Ohio-based Bahl & Gaynor Inc., said by phone. “It
will be jittery until it happens. A jittery, nervous market will
blow up when it is finally resolved. Then it will trend back
down.”  Exporters declined. Hon Hai slid 1.9 percent to NT$74 in
Taipei. AU Optronics Corp., a maker of liquid crystal display
screens used in electronics devices, sank 4.5 percent to
NT$9.60.  Creative Technology Ltd. (CREAF) , a maker of digital music
players, dropped 4 percent to S$2.15 in Singapore.  Gold producers slumped as the precious metal swung between
gains and losses after touching a three-month low on Oct. 11.
Newcrest Mining fell 3.8 percent to A$10.10 in Sydney. Regis
Resources Ltd. decreased 3.9 percent to A$3.46.  OZ Minerals Ltd. sank 9.3 percent to A$3.99 after the
copper producer cut its output forecast by as much as 20 percent
and raised its production cost estimate.  China’s train makers rallied after Thai Prime Minister
Yingluck Shinawatra told reporters on Oct. 11 after meeting with
Chinese Premier  Li Keqiang  in Bangkok that Chinese companies had
expressed interest in developing the southeastern Asian nation’s
high-speed train system. CSR, which makes locomotives, jumped 10
percent to 4.31  yuan  in Shanghai, while China CNR, which
manufactures rail cars and wagons, climbed 10 percent to 4.59
yuan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  