-- Aussie Touches Highest Since June After RBA Minutes; Yields Rise
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-10-15T06:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/aussie-near-three-week-high-before-rba-minutes-yields-increase.html
Australia ’s dollar touched the
highest since June versus the greenback as traders pared wagers
for further interest-rate cuts by the  Reserve Bank  this year.  The Aussie advanced for a fifth day and bond yields climbed
after policy makers refrained from saying a weaker currency
would help the economy in minutes today from their meeting this
month.  New Zealand ’s dollar fell for the first time in three
days against Australia’s after Reserve Bank of New Zealand
Deputy Governor Grant Spencer said mortgage-lending restrictions
could reduce the magnitude of rate rises.  The Australian dollar is being supported by “no new
rhetoric on  interest rates , and no new rhetoric on the currency
front,” said David Forrester, a Singapore-based senior vice
president for Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy at Macquarie
Bank Ltd. The Aussie may rise toward 96 U.S. cents, which would
be a good level to sell, he said.  Australia’s dollar gained 0.5 percent to 95.33 U.S. cents
at 5:23 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, and touched the highest
since June 19 at 95.39. It advanced 0.1 percent to NZ$1.1362.
New Zealand’s currency added 0.4 percent to 83.91 U.S. cents.  The yield on Australia’s benchmark  10-year (GACGB10)  government bond
rose eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 4.2
percent, after touching 4.212 percent, the most since March last
year. The  three-year  yield reached 3.16 percent, a level unseen
since March.  RBA Minutes  The  Reserve Bank of Australia  repeated it retains the
option of reducing rates as policy makers gauge the impact of
“substantial” stimulus on the economy, minutes of the Oct. 1
meeting showed. “Members noted that the Australian dollar was
still around 10 percent below its peak in April,” it said.  “You would conclude from these minutes that they were less
likely to cut rates,” Greg Gibbs, a senior currency strategist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Singapore , wrote in a
note to clients. “The most sensible assessment is that rates
have reached their low point and will stay there for some time.
This should put upward pressure on the exchange rate.”  The Australian dollar has gained 2 percent in the past
month, the most after a 2.1 percent gain in the  New Zealand
dollar  among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. Over the past six months it is the
worst performer, falling 8.4 percent.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board left rates
unchanged at a record-low 2.5 percent this month, as it had done
on Sept. 3, after reducing borrowing costs by 2.25 percentage
points since late 2011.  Rate Bets  Traders see a 19 percent chance the RBA will reduce its
benchmark rate by the end of this year, compared with 37 percent
odds a month earlier,  interest-rate swaps  data compiled by
Bloomberg show. They also see a 2 percent probability the RBNZ
will raise its cash rate target from a record-low 2.5 percent in
the same period.  Royal Bank of Canada pushed back its forecast for an RBA
rate cut, which it projects will be the last in the current
cycle, to the second quarter of next year from December. It
cited a pickup in consumer and business confidence and signs of
stability in  China , Australia’s biggest trading partner, in a
note today to clients.  “It’s hard to see what brings the RBA back to the table
any time soon,” said  Michael Turner , a debt and currency
strategist at RBC in Sydney. “It wouldn’t surprise me if you
get into a situation where the RBA is sounding a bit more
positive, and the RBNZ starts to hike a bit slower than what’s
priced in, and Aussie-kiwi goes a bit higher.”  Aussie Forecasts  Australia’s dollar will fall to 92 U.S. cents by year-end,
according to the median forecast of analysts surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . New Zealand’s dollar will decline to 81 U.S.
cents, according to a separate Bloomberg poll.  To the extent that the RBNZ’s mortgage-lending restrictions
“dampen overall demand in the economy, they could also reduce
the extent of interest-rate increases, and hence  exchange-rate 
pressure,” Deputy Governor Spencer said in a speech in Auckland
today, according to a text published on the central bank’s
 website . He reiterated that policy makers estimate the loan
limits are the equivalent of a 30 basis-point increase in the
official cash rate.  RBNZ Governor Graeme Wheeler has said the central bank is
likely to start raising borrowing costs next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  