-- Aviva Hires Tejas’s Jones for Bond Trading in Chicago
-- B y   M a r c i   J a c o b s
-- 2013-10-14T17:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/avivia-hires-tejas-s-jones-for-bond-trading-in-chicago.html
Aviva Plc (AV/) ’s investment arm in the
U.S. hired Jeff Jones to trade bonds as the unit seeks to boost
business with clients betting on high-yield securities.  Jones joins Aviva Investors Americas from Tejas Securities
Group Inc. and will be based in Chicago, reporting to Todd Youngberg, head of high-yield investments. Jones previously
traded  junk bonds  for FBR Capital Markets and Barclays Plc, the
unit of the London-based insurer said in a statement today.  Aviva is focusing in the U.S. on asset management after
selling its annuity business in the country to Apollo Global
Management LLC this month. The company announced a global
initiative last year to expand offerings of short-duration high-yield bonds.  Jones’s “strengths as a high-yield trader and experience
making markets and  managing risk  will further enhance our
ability to capitalize on attractive opportunities,” Brent Finck, high-yield portfolio manager, said in the statement.  The global asset-management business oversaw about 274
billion pounds ($442 billion) as of Dec. 31, up from almost 263
million pounds a year earlier. The unit operates in 15 countries
in the Asia-Pacific region, Europe and  North America  and has
more than 1,000 employees worldwide, Rob Ranges, a spokesman for
the company, said in an interview.  Principal Financial Group Inc. announced in June that it
hired Josh Rank and Matt Hanson from Aviva to help run a
portfolio of junk bonds. Des Moines, Iowa-based Principal is
among insurers seeking to build money-management units to
increase fee revenue.  Texas A&M  Jones has a bachelor’s degree in economics from  Texas A&M
University . He previously worked as an analyst at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., according to the statement.  Tejas Securities, owned by  Westech Capital Corp. (WTEC) , is a
broker-dealer that was founded in 1994, according to the unit’s
 website . No one at the Austin, Texas-based company was available
to comment today as bond markets were closed because of a U.S.
holiday, according to a person answering the phone at the
headquarters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marci Jacobs in  New York  at 
 mjacobs63@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  