-- Black Market Radios Even Too Rich for Taxed Portuguese: Economy
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-10-15T07:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/black-market-radios-even-too-pricey-for-portuguese-bemoaning-tax.html
Portuguese construction worker
Carlos Marques lost his job in 2010 and a year later his
unemployment money ran out. So he began peddling everything from
old car radios to shoes to scratch a living.  “When I first started, business was booming,” Marques,
46, said as he hawked pans, radios and speakers at the Feira da
Ladra, or “Thieves Market,” once a medley of sights and smells
from  Portugal ’s colonial history and now the hub of Lisbon’s
underground economy. “Now I’m struggling as most of my clients
have lost their jobs or spent most of their income on taxes.”  Multiple years of recession, record unemployment and
austerity in southern Europe are taking their toll even on
activities that usually flourish during hard times.  The loss of income has been so severe in Portugal,  Greece 
and  Spain  that it has reduced demand for used or illegal goods
and off-the-books labor, according to  Friedrich Schneider , a
professor at the Johannes Kepler University in Linz,  Austria ,
who specializes in the shadow economy.  “This unusual situation is happening in Portugal, Greece
and Spain, which are struggling,” Schneider said. “The bottom
line: when there is no money to hire a cleaning lady then you
end up doing the job yourself.”  The Portuguese  underground economy  will drop to 19 percent
of gross domestic product this year from 19.4 percent in 2012.
In Greece, where more than one in four people is jobless, it
will fall by the same increment, to 23.6 percent of GDP.  Austerity Fatigue  The contraction has coincided with the deepest austerity
measures in decades to reduce budget deficits, ordered by
European leaders such as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel . The
 Portuguese government  will present another package of spending
cuts in the 2014 budget proposal to parliament in Lisbon today.  It hasn’t gone down well among traders at the Thieves
Market in Lisbon, where pensioner Luis Aguiar sells bicycles and
furniture across the street from a wall with the words “Merkel
Go Away” daubed on it with red spray paint.  “I once sold a car in this market,” said Aguiar, 65.
“These days I can’t even sell a second-hand bicycle.”  Set against the backdrop of Lisbon’s 16th-century  National
Pantheon  on a hillside overlooking the Tagus River where
Portuguese explorers once set off to discover new continents,
the Thieves Market used to reflect the nation’s seafaring and
trading traditions.  The sellers of African masks or exotic spices from  India  to
tourists are now outnumbered by hundreds of desperate local
vendors who display used clothes, pots, pans and old electrical
goods on blankets on the sidewalk.  Trading Speakers  Marques and his wife were selling a handful of old kitchen
pots for as little as 1 euro ($1.36) each, alongside a car radio
he had just traded for two audio speakers.  “There are more people interested in swapping goods these
days instead of buying stuff,” said Marques, surveying his
inventory. “People have no money these days.”  Portugal requested a bailout from its European partners and
the  International Monetary Fund  in 2011, about six months after
Ireland and a year after Greece, while Spain sought emergency
money to clean up its banks in 2012.  Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  is still tightening the
country’s collective belt to get the budget in good enough shape
to start raising more money from bond investors again. Today’s
budget likely will include spending cuts exceeding 3 billion
euros after the government relied mainly on tax increases to
meet targets set out in the aid program.  “How is it possible to realistically tell people that we
will lower taxes and increase spending when we need to reduce
our deficit?” the premier told  RTP television  last week.  No Savings  Portugal never had the prosperity to generate the savings
deposits some people in Greece and Spain are relying on now to
cover their cost of living.  While the Greek and Spanish economies were expanding at an
annual rate of more than 3 percent at the end of 2007, Portugal
grew by less than 1 percent a year for a decade before the debt
crisis erupted in  Athens  in late 2009.  Portugal’s economy will contract another 1.8 percent this
year, a third straight year of recession, according to
government estimates. While less than the Greek rate of 27.6
percent, Portuguese joblessness was 16.4 percent in the second
quarter, albeit dropping for the first time in two years.  Papa Gei, a 39-year-old Senegalese salesman at the Thieves
Market, said things are so bad in  Europe  that he is telling his
friends to stay home instead.  Better Life?  “I came here in search of a better life,” said Gei, who
used to work in a farm in  Senegal . “If I knew it would be this
bad in Portugal I would have stayed working at the farm.”  While Schneider in Linz calculates that the proportion of
GDP that’s under the table declined across Europe since 2009, in
the north it’s because a gradual recovery in the official
economy reduces the incentive to earn “black money.”  The unofficial market in  Germany  will shrink to 13 percent
of Europe’s largest economy from 13.3 percent last year, based
on research by Schneider, who wrote an international survey of
the shadow economy published this year.  Officials at the EU’s statistics office and the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said they
do not have recent data on the informal economy.  In Lisbon, Antonio Vicente encapsulates the erosion of
 living standards  in the south.  Parking Meters  The 57-year-old, who became homeless after losing his job
as a baker two years ago, makes a living by feeding other
people’s parking meters in downtown Lisbon when they expire to
prevent their cars from being fined or towed.  “I used to make about 30 euros a day last year from
clients,” Vicente said while sifting through a handful of coins
after a 12-hour day. “Today I only made 8 euros.”  Both Vicente and Marques, the trader at the Thieves Market,
are unlikely to be able join the official economy and are now
wondering how to make a living now that their black market
clients are running out.  “We have too many people selling stuff to a shrinking
number of customers,” said Marques, dressed in a black hat and
jeans. “If I can’t find clients to buy my goods I will have to
dig deeper into the underground economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  