-- BOE’s Cunliffe Says U.K. Is Not in Grip of Housing-Market Bubble
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-10-14T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/boe-s-cunliffe-says-u-k-is-not-in-grip-of-housing-market-bubble.html
Jon Cunliffe, who will join the  Bank
of England  as deputy governor for financial stability next
month, said the housing market is not in a bubble as prices are
rising from historically low levels.  “It doesn’t look as if there is a bubble,” Cunliffe said
in testimony to lawmakers at Parliament’s Treasury Committee in
London yesterday. “The picture emerging is that prices are
starting to rise, but we’re still coming back from a relatively
low base, and of course it’s a patchy picture because there’s
quite a dispersion across the country.”  Strengthening property demand coupled with the government’s
decision to accelerate a plan to help homebuyers get loans has
raised concerns the  property market  could overheat. BOE Governor
 Mark Carney  has said fears are overplayed, while the EY Item
Club said yesterday that Britain is in the midst of misplaced
“hysteria” about housing risks.  In written testimony to the committee, Cunliffe, a civil
servant who replaces  Paul Tucker  on Nov. 1, said lending
standards need to be watched closely as the property market
recovers to “ensure the system does not become overly exposed
to a correction in property prices further down the line.”  He also said recent data suggest there are “upside risks”
to the Bank of England’s August forecasts, with surveys pointing
to “above-trend growth” in the second half. The BOE will
publish new projections for economic growth and inflation next
month.  U.K. Risks  Cunliffe also said that the euro area remains a risk and
its recovery is likely to be weak.  “The experience of the past two years has shown how
vulnerable the U.K. economic recovery is, given trade and
financial links, to the situation in the euro area,” he said in
his written testimony.  During the questioning, he said he doesn’t expect a U.S.
default, though regulators and banks need to be prepared.  “One of the lessons of 2007-8 is how shocks can be
transmitted so quickly,” he said. “Because there’s an
expectation that the political system in the U.S. will find a
way through this absolutely does not mean that banks and others
should not be planning for it.”  Cunliffe’s most recent position was as Britain’s
representative to the European Union, where he was involved in
negotiations on the region’s banking union. From 2007 to 2011,
he was a U.K. government adviser on  Europe  and global economic
issues, and before that worked in a number of roles in the
Treasury.  Tucker will leave the BOE this month and become a senior
fellow at  Harvard University  with appointments at both the
Harvard Kennedy School in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , and  Harvard
Business School  in  Boston . He announced his plan to retire on
June 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  