-- Boeing’s Pentagon Charges Questioned in Audits Four Times
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-10-14T17:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/boeing-charges-u-s-for-new-copter-parts-uses-old-ones.html
Four times in the past five years,
the Pentagon’s inspector general has found that  Boeing Co. (BA) 
collected excessive or unjustified payments on U.S. defense
contracts.  In the latest of four audits since 2008, the watchdog
office said the Chicago-based company charged the U.S. Army for
new helicopter parts while installing used ones  “Boeing significantly overstated estimates” of new
components needed for CH-47F Chinook helicopters and “primarily
installed used parts instead” under a $4.4 billion contract
awarded in 2008, according to the report, labeled “For Official
Use Only” and obtained by  Bloomberg News .  While used parts were allowed in some circumstances, the
July 16 report found that the company overcharged the U.S. Army
by as much as $16.6 million by exaggerating how many new ones
were required while installing refurbished equipment salvaged
from old aircraft. The report also faults defense agencies and
military services for lax negotiations and contract management.  “The bottom line is that using reworked parts rather than
new parts increased Boeing’s profit,” Bridget Serchak, a
spokeswoman for the inspector general, said of the latest
findings. The Army paid Boeing for parts “that were proposed
but never installed,” and “is paying for additional parts that
they do not need and may not use,” Serchak said in an e-mailed
statement.  Boeing is the No. 2 federal contractor after  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) , with more than $30 billion of prime government
contracts awarded in fiscal 2012, according to a Bloomberg
Government ranking.  While Boeing “recognizes the important work that the
Department of Defense inspector general performs” it
“disagrees with the IG’s conclusions,” Damien Mills, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Fully Compliant’  “We believe we were fully compliant with all government
contract policies and guidance applicable to the first CH-47F
multiyear contract, and we provided evidence of that to the IG
throughout this audit,” Mills said.  The four audits since 2008, which involved different
contracts and circumstances, all found that the Army and
Pentagon need to bolster their ability to go toe-to-toe with
Boeing in complex negotiations, said Henry Kleinknecht, the
inspector general’s former director for pricing and logistics,
who managed the audits of Boeing parts until he retired last
year.  Lacking Expertise  “Unfortunately, the Army does not have a cost/price
analysis group, much less an experienced one,” Kleinknecht said
in an e-mail. Government and military contracting officials
don’t have “the technical expertise in a lot of these complex
areas to go in and figure out what the problems are,” he said.  Senator Tom Carper, a Delaware Democrat who heads the
Senate  Homeland Security  and Governmental Affairs Committee,
said in an e-mail that he plans a hearing this year to examine
the Pentagon’s “spare-parts problems” and “other
opportunities to curb wasteful spending.”  The largest overcharge described in the July report was as
much as $2.6 million for 142 Chinook engine transmission
housings that the inspector general found weren’t needed.  Instead of giving the Army the unneeded parts, Boeing was
allowed to keep them for other jobs “even though the Army paid
for” the items, the audit found.  While the excessive charges cited by the inspector general
amount to rounding errors for Boeing, which reported almost $22
billion of  sales  in this year’s second quarter, the July report
follows a series of government audits challenging amounts paid
by the Pentagon under various contracts.  Pentagon Audits  A 2008 audit said Boeing sought $1.9 billion in unjustified
payments on military contracts under a formula designed to
compensate contractors for rising costs. After negotiations, the
amount was cut to $272 million, the inspector general’s report
said.  In June, the inspector general said the  Defense Logistics
Agency  paid Boeing $13.7 million more than it should have for
spare parts, including $2,286 apiece for an aluminum “bearing
sleeve” that should have cost $10.  A May 2011 audit found about $13 million of overcharges on
$23 million of orders from a Texas army depot. That report said
Boeing charged $644.75 for a plastic motor gear used on Chinook
helicopters, which another Pentagon agency purchased for $12.51.  Boeing’s twin-rotor  CH-47 Chinook , first used in combat in
1965 during the  Vietnam War , is one of the Army’s most versatile
transport helicopters. The latest version, the  CH-47F , first
flew in 2001 and according to Boeing can fly 196 miles per hour
(315 kilometers per hour) and carry 24,000 pounds (10,886
kilograms).  Excess Costs  The July audit report cited the transmission housings to
illustrate extra costs arising from the use of new versus used
parts. While Boeing proposed meeting “the full contract
requirement of 232” transmission housings using salvaged parts,
the Army also accepted the company’s proposal for 142 new
housings that could be used as necessary. “As a result,
potential excess costs for the housings were $1.2 million to
$2.6 million,” the audit found.  In another example cited in the report, the Army accepted
Boeing’s proposal for 65 new aft transmission gears on the
remanufactured Chinooks, based on an estimate that new parts
would be used 56 percent of the time. Army data showed that only
one new gear was installed in the first 50 aircraft, a 2 percent
rate. The difference added $1.6 million in costs, the audit
found.  Revised Terms  In addition, Boeing could have overcharged the Army as much
as $19.1 million on new parts for a $4 billion, multiyear CH-47F
production contract  awarded  in June if the service hadn’t
revised its terms based on the inspector general’s emerging
findings, according to the report. The June contract calls for
Boeing to turn over unused parts to the Army.  The two contracts each called for delivery of as many as
430 new or remanufactured helicopters.  Scott Amey, general counsel for the Project on Government
Oversight, a Washington-based advocacy group, said in an e-mail
that “the audits show a continued pattern of inventory, pricing
and oversight failures” by the Army and “Boeing charging more
than fair and reasonable prices.”  “If the partnership is going to work, both parties” must
“share current pricing data,” he said. “If something doesn’t
give, we’re going to see additional audits and reactive attempts
to recover funds.”  ‘Significant Adjustments’  The Army Contracting Command, in official responses
included in the inspector general’s report, didn’t address
issues the report cited about the 2008 contract. The command
instead cited actions it took before the award of the second
contract in June that improved scrutiny of Boeing’s proposal.  Boeing made “significant adjustments” to its proposal,
the audit found.  Dan O’Boyle, spokesman for the Army Aviation and Missile
Life Cycle Management Command, which is managing the 2008
contract, didn’t respond to a request for comment.  The CH-47F contract “was not well-written and actually
allowed Boeing to determine whether to install a new or reworked
part,” said Serchak, the inspector general’s spokeswoman.  “The used parts were salvaged” from remanufactured
helicopters and the company “installed significantly more” of
them “instead of the proposed” new items, according to the
audit.  The inspector general didn’t recommend that the Army seek
refunds on the 2008 contract because the Army “did not look at
kinds and quantities” of parts in its technical reviews before
the contract was signed “and did not define to Boeing what was
acceptable and what was unacceptable,” Serchak said.  “Therefore, because this practice is allowable under the
contract, it is doubtful that there is a legal basis to seek a
refund because of wrongdoing by Boeing,” she said. “However,
Boeing could voluntarily refund these amounts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  