-- Asian Bond Issuance Halted by Holidays Amid U.S. Debt Wrangling
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s   a n d   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-10-14T04:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/bond-risk-decreases-in-australia-credit-default-swaps-show.html
Companies in  Asia  refrained from
marketing new dollar-denominated bonds today as public holidays
and concern the U.S. government will struggle to resolve its
debt impasse halted activity.  The pause follows a surge in new bond sales in the U.S.
currency last week that saw issuance in Asia outside  Japan  more
than double from the previous five-day period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Bond markets in  Hong Kong , Japan and the
U.S. are closed today.  The average yield premium over Treasuries for Asian dollar
bonds fell by nine basis points last week to 291, the first
decline since the five days ended Sept. 20, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. With the U.S.’s borrowing
authority set to lapse Oct. 17, American lawmakers are still
seeking to craft agreements that will avert a default and
restore full government operations.  “Issuance activity this week will probably be fairly
subdued because of all the uncertainty surrounding the U.S. debt
ceiling debate,” said Gene Cheon, a Singapore-based director in
Deutsche Bank AG’s Asia credit trading business. “With the U.S.
and others out for holidays, today’s likely to be particularly
quiet for Asian dollar bonds.”  Bond issuance in Asia outside Japan last week rose to $5.9
billion, up from $2.65 billion in the five days to Oct. 4,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. China Petrochemical
Corp., Asia’s largest refiner known as Sinopec Group, led
offerings, borrowing $2.75 billion on Oct. 9.  SK Broadband  SK Broadband Co., a South Korean Internet-service provider,
is considering selling a U.S. dollar bond, while  China Overseas
Land & Investment Ltd. (688)  has hired banks to arrange investor
meetings, according to people familiar with the matters.  The cost of insuring bonds in Asia against non-payment was
little changed from last week, credit default swap prices show.  Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade borrowers
outside Japan was unchanged at 141 as of 8:44 a.m. in  Singapore ,
Westpac Banking Corp. prices show. The gauge is on track for a
15.4 basis-point decline this month, the most since October last
year, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index decreased 2 basis points
to 115 basis points as of 11:34 a.m. in Sydney, according to
National Australia Bank Ltd. prices. The benchmark is poised to
have fallen 10.2 basis points since Sept. 30, according to data
provider CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net ;
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  