-- Brazil Real Drops on Speculation Central Bank Will Limit Advance
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-10-14T15:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/brazilian-real-climbs-to-four-month-high-on-tombini-s-comments.html
The real fell from a four-month high
on speculation  Brazil  will limit gains in the currency after it
posted the world’s biggest rally.  The currency depreciated 0.5 percent to 2.1864 per  U.S.
dollar  at 12:51 p.m. in Sao Paulo after rising on Oct. 11 to the
strongest level on a closing basis since June 17. Today’s drop
was the biggest in a week. Swap rates on the contract maturing
in January 2015 climbed two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 10.37 percent.  While central bank President Alexandre Tombini said last
week that Brazil may extend into 2014 its $60 billion
intervention program, traders are projecting that policy makers
will refrain from rolling over all of the foreign-exchange swaps
that were sold to support currency. That strategy would allow
the central bank to keep the real trading in a range before the
 Federal Reserve  begins curtailing a stimulus program that
supports emerging-market assets, according to Hideaki Iha, a
trader at Fair Corretora in  Sao Paulo .  “The central bank can’t let the real continue to gain so
far beyond 2.2 per dollar,” Iha said in a telephone interview.
“The rollovers are an instrument that provide the right dose to
balance the real.”  Tombini said in remarks prepared for an Oct. 12 speech at
International Monetary Fund meetings in  Washington  that policy
makers may extend into 2014 currency swaps and credit lines to
support the real.  ‘Curbing Volatility’  “The program has proved successful in curbing volatility
and could be extended beyond year-end if necessary,” he said.  Traders are projecting that price swings in the real will
ebb. Implied volatility on three-month real options, which
reflects traders’ expectations for future price fluctuations,
dropped to 12 percent today, the lowest level since May,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The real has gained 11 percent since Aug. 22, when the
central bank announced its intervention program to support the
currency and curb inflation by restricting import prices. That
rally from a 4 1/2-year low is the biggest among all of the
world’s dollar counterparts tracked by Bloomberg, leaving it
down 10 percent in the past six months. A weaker currency helps
the nation’s exporters.  Brazil sold $498 million of currency swaps today. It has
$8.9 billion of swaps coming due in November.  “The central bank announced in the past that it would roll
over some currency swaps before they matured, so the market will
be speculating about that until they mature,”  Francisco Carvalho , a currency director at BGC Liquidez in Sao Paulo, said
in a phone interview.  Inflation Target  While inflation slowed in September for a third consecutive
month, the 5.86 percent annual rate was still more than a
percentage point above the middle of Brazil’s 2.5 percent to 6.5
percent preferred range.  Analysts surveyed weekly by the central bank forecast
inflation will accelerate to 5.95 percent in 2014 from 5.81
percent at the end of this year, according to the most recent
median estimates published today.  The IMF said last week that inflation in Brazil threatens
to damp consumption, making interest-rate increases
“appropriate.” The fund reduced its 2014 growth forecast for
 Latin America ’s biggest economy to 2.5 percent from 3.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  