-- Broncos’ Win Over Jags Fails to Cover NFL’s Biggest Point Spread
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/broncos-win-over-jags-fails-to-cover-nfl-s-biggest-point-spread.html
The biggest point spread in National
Football League history proved too much for Peyton Manning and
the record-setting Denver Broncos to cover.  The Broncos, favored between 26 1/2 and 27 1/2 points at
most Las Vegas sportsbooks at kickoff yesterday against the
winless Jacksonville Jaguars, led just 14-12 at halftime before
pulling away for a 35-19 victory in Denver.  The spread had been as high as 28 points, a margin so big
it attracted widespread notice, yet kept many bettors from
wagering on the game, according to oddmakers.  “It drew a lot of attention, but it didn’t draw a lot of
money at the end,” Jimmy Vaccaro, oddsmaker of the South Point
Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas, said in a telephone interview,
declining to give specific details of the handle.  The biggest previous NFL point spread dating back to 1972
was the Pittsburgh Steelers at -26 for a Dec. 5, 1976, game
against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, according to Las Vegas-based
handicapping information website Pregame.com.  The Broncos entered Week 6 with an NFL-record 230 points in
their 5-0 start -- an average of 46 points a game -- while the
Jaguars were averaging a league-low 10.2 points in going 0-5.
Manning threw two first-quarter touchdown passes against the
Jaguars yesterday, yet also lost two fumbles, was twice sacked
and had an interception returned 59 yards for a touchdown by
Jacksonville linebacker Paul Posluszny.  ‘Just Noise’  “It’s just noise on the outside, to be honest with you,”
Broncos coach John Fox said about his team being so heavily
favored. “All these games are hard. There is resistance out
there. It’s called the other team. At the end of the day, we’re
very, very pleased with the victory.”  With the Broncos being one of the most popular teams among
bettors this season, oddsmakers said they offered various
proposition wagers in addition to the record-setting line to try
to draw money on the Jaguars.  The Las Vegas Hotel’s SuperBook took bets on whether the
Jaguars would ever hold a lead in the game, which they didn’t,
and offered 30-1 odds that Jacksonville would win the game
outright. Online sportsbook Bovada.lv took bets on whether
Manning would be taken out of the game before the fourth
quarter. He ended up taking every snap for the Broncos, who
improved to 6-0.  “We finally found a line that slowed down Broncos’ bets
and attracted Jaguars’ bets at the same time,” said Jeff Sherman, assistant manager at the LVH SuperBook, which had the
Broncos at 26 1/2-point favorites at kickoff.  Late Surge  The Broncos got three second-half touchdowns from running
back Knowshon Moreno to pull away for the victory, yet finished
with their lowest point-total of the season and failed to top 50
points for the first time in three weeks.  Even with the attention paid to the Denver-Jacksonville
matchup -- and the size of the Broncos’ potential winning margin
-- the finish to yesterday’s game between the New England
Patriots and New Orleans Saints had a bigger impact at
sportsbooks, Vaccaro said.  The Patriots were favored by 2 or 2 1/2 points by most
oddsmakers and pulled out a 30-27 win on Tom Brady’s 17-yard
touchdown pass to rookie Kenbrell Thompkins with five seconds
left. The last-minute score not only helped the Patriots send
the Saints to their first loss of the season, it covered the
point spread for bettors who wagered on New England.  “It just goes to show you, you can’t script these
endings,” Vaccaro said of the Denver-Jacksonville and New
England-New Orleans matchups. “It’s great for the industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  