-- HTC Joins Apple With Fingerprint Sensor in One Max Handset
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-10-15T02:48:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/htc-joins-apple-with-fingerprint-sensor-in-max-one-handset.html
HTC Corp. (2498) , the Taiwanese handset
maker which posted its first loss on record last quarter,
unveiled a new handset with fingerprint sensor, joining  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  in featuring the security technology.  One Max has a 5.9-inch (15 centimeter) full high-definition
screen and can run on fourth-generation Long-Term Evolution
networks, it said in a statement yesterday. The device, using
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ’s Snapdragon 600 processor will debut in China,
U.K. and Taiwan before starting U.S. sales, Chief Marketing
Officer Ben Ho said in an interview today.  HTC’s largest phone, featuring  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android 4.3
operating system, is part of efforts to revive sales as it
struggles to regain share from  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Sony
Corp. (6758)  Apple last month  unveiled  its iPhone 5s with a fingerprint
sensor to boost security and aid shopping while HTC said its
handset can automatically start an application according to
which finger is scanned.  “Large-screen phones have been picked up in Asia more than
in Western countries, and the trend for larger is definitely
there,” Ho said by phone. One Max is HTC’s last major product
release this year ahead of the next One device expected in the
first quarter, he said.  HTC  shares  gained 1.2 percent to NT$127.5 as of 10:19 a.m.
in Taipei and have declined 58 percent this year.  Third-quarter sales dropped 33 percent to NT$47 billion
($1.6 billion), missing analysts’ estimates for NT$54 billion.
The net loss of NT$2.97 billion was more than the NT$1.71
billion average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The phone will be officially unveiled at a press conference
today in Beijing and becomes the latest model to be first shown
in  China . Various models of its Desire series as well as China-specific phones have been released first in that market, Ho
said.  One Max will be released by the end of this month featuring
HTC’s UltraPixel camera technology, first unveiled with the HTC
One in February. Its fingerprint sensor is on the device’s back
while Apple’s is on the front.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  