-- Cardenas Sees No Colombia Rate Rise Soon as GDP Below Potential
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-10-14T18:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/cardenas-sees-no-colombia-rate-rise-soon-as-gdp-below-potential.html
Colombia ’s Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said faster economic growth isn’t generating
inflationary pressures and that he doesn’t see the need for
higher  interest rates  any time soon.  While growth will accelerate to about 5 percent in the
second half of the year, the economy is still expanding below
potential, Cardenas said in an interview in  Washington  today.
Strong demand in the construction and service industries, as
well as a recovery in the farm sector, is offsetting slower
export growth, he said.  Colombia’s  economy  expanded 4.2 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, compared with the 3.4 percent
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The central
bank kept its benchmark  rate  unchanged in September for the
sixth time. In August, a minority of policy makers voted to cut
the rate, the lowest among major Latin American economies,
arguing that growth was below its potential.  “There is no inflationary pressure at the moment,”
Cardenas said. “We need to give the current policy stance some
time.”  The prospect of rising interest rates in the U.S. and
weaker global commodity prices will push the peso lower,
requiring less intervention by the central bank, Cardenas said.  “The markets alone will generate the conditions for a
larger depreciation of the currency,” he said.  Peso Decline  The peso has depreciated 6.1 percent against the dollar
this year and was trading at 1,881.38 today. While the
government doesn’t target a specific  exchange rate , it has said
it is comfortable with a range of 1,900 to 1,950 per dollar.  A weaker peso increases the competitiveness of Colombian
exports, which stood at $4.98 billion in August, compared with
estimates of $4.58 billion and $4.57 billion a year earlier.  A recent overhaul of payroll taxes and infrastructure
projects worth $25 billion will help Colombia’s economy weather
a less favorable global scenario, including tapering by the
 Federal Reserve , Cardenas said.  The planned sale of power company Isagen also will generate
at least $3 billion in revenue, helping to finance a government
infrastructure fund, Cardenas said.  Colombia raised the base price for its majority stake in
Medellin-based  Isagen (ISAGEN)  to 3,178 pesos per share last month, from
a minimum of 2,850 pesos set in July when the sale plan was
disclosed. At the higher price, the government’s 57.66 percent
stake would be worth 5 trillion pesos ($2.66 billion).  “We want strong competition that results in a higher
price,” Cardenas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 