-- Cerberus German Store Spinoff Said to Form $1.4 Billion Company
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-10-14T06:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/cerberus-german-store-spinoff-said-to-form-1-4-billion-company.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP’s
German retail property spinoff will have an initial market value
of about 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion), making it the country’s
second-largest listed commercial real estate company, two people
with knowledge of the plan said.  The initial public offering, in which Cerberus will sell a
stake in its 2 billion-euro German retail property portfolio,
will probably take place in the first half of 2014, one of the
people said. Both of them asked not to be named because the
information is private.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are advising Cerberus on the IPO, two
people with knowledge of the plan said in April. Cerberus is
among foreign investors in German real estate seeking to profit
from rising demand for property there. The firm took  GSW
Immobilien AG (GIB) , Berlin’s largest residential landlord, public two
years ago.  Cerberus’s spinoff will also include a share sale by  Acrest
Property Group GmbH , the Berlin-based company that manages its
German retail buildings, the people said. Acrest also oversees
1.7 billion euros of buildings owned by clients including  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO) , according to Acrest’s website.  Representatives of Acrest and New York-based Cerberus
declined to comment on the IPO plans. Cerberus’s German retail
properties include big-box outlets and department stores rented
to businesses such as Woolworth and Metro AG.  Goldman Sachs and  Guy Hands ’s Terra Firma Capital Partners
Ltd. did IPOs this year that created  Germany ’s largest publicly
traded residential landlords. Deutsche Euroshop AG is the
country’s largest publicly traded commercial property company,
with a market value of about 1.7 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  