-- Chile Doubles Renewable-Energy Goal to 20% to Spark New Projects
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-10-14T19:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/chile-doubles-renewable-energy-goal-to-20-to-spark-new-projects.html
Chile  doubled its renewable-energy
target and may solicit competitive bids in 2015 for contracts to
sell electricity as the South American nation seeks to spur
investment in new power plants and curb its reliance on imported
fossil fuels.  Utilities must get 20 percent of their power from renewable
sources by 2025. That will work out to 6,500 megawatts of
capacity from projects including solar farms and small
hydroelectric dams, up from about 1,000 megawatts now, according
to Maria Paz de la Cruz, director of Chile’s Renewable Energy
Center, a government agency. President Sebastian Pinera signed
the new target into law today.  Chile is already exceeding its current 5 percent goal,
slowing demand for new renewable-power plants, said Rodrigo
Fernandes, an engineer at the Santiago-based electricity
consulting company Energetica SA.  “We have a surplus of renewable energy,” he said in an
interview today.  Chile previously required utilities that own at least 200
megawatts of capacity to get 5 percent of their energy from
renewable sources, rising to 10 percent in 2024, Lilian Alves, a
 Sao Paulo  analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said today in
a telephone interview. Chile produced about 8 percent of its
energy from renewable sources last year.  Cheaper Credits  Utilities that don’t meet their renewable-energy quotas
must buy credits from developers or power producers with an
excess, Fernandes said. The clean-power surplus may drive down
the price of the credits to about $8 a megawatt hour this year
from an average of $12 from 2010 through 2012.  If utilities aren’t meeting the new goals, the country may
hold its first auction in 2015 for 10-year contracts to sell
power from renewable-power plants, Cruz said. Power-purchase
agreements will help developers get financing from banks.  The new target “is really good news for private
developers,” Cruz said. “With the change in the law we have
secured an amount of demand for this type of technology.”  More renewables will help Chile “become more independent
from imported fossil fuels,” which provide 80 percent of the
nation’s energy, Cruz said. “We’re trying to secure a clean
energy matrix for the future.”  Chile also published its Electrical Concessions Law today
that will cut the time developers have to wait to get permits to
connect projects to the grid to 150 days from 700 days, Cruz
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  