-- China Challenges CME to SGX With Iron-Ore Futures Contract
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-14T20:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/china-challenges-cme-to-sgx-with-new-iron-ore-futures-contract.html
China’s Dalian Commodity Exchange
will start trading the country’s first  iron-ore  futures for
physical delivery this week, challenging index-backed contracts
by CME Group Inc. and  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)   Trading will begin Oct. 18 after the securities regulator
approved the plan last week, the bourse in the northeastern port
city said in a statement on its website yesterday.  Chinese steelmakers, the world’s biggest iron-ore buyers,
earlier this year questioned the reliability of a  price index 
provided by Platts that became a benchmark after producers
including  Vale SA (VALE)  and  Rio Tinto (RIO)  Group scrapped annual contract
price talks in 2010. China started its own spot-trading platform
last year, introducing a weighted average daily price in March.  “China aims to create the iron-ore benchmark, and in the
commodities world, the way to do that is by having a futures
contract set for physical delivery,” said Zeng Jiesheng, a
Shanghai-based analyst with researcher Mysteel.com.  Futures already offered by SGX, CME and
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  are based on indexes and are
settled financially rather than with the raw material.  The bourse will use stockpiles at ports including Tianjin,
Lianyungang, Rizhao, Tangshan, Qingdao and Caofeidian, as well
as material held at some  steel mills , according to yesterday’s
statement  The Dalian bourse, the nation’s third-largest futures
exchange by volume, will provide an “objective and fair”
pricing mechanism, it said in a separate statement.  Damon Leavell, a CME Group spokesman, declined to comment
on the new contract.  Quick Takeoff  “Trading iron-ore futures may take off quickly because
investors are already familiar with steel-related products,
including rebar contracts on the Shanghai Futures Exchange,”
said Wang Yongliang, an analyst at Beijing CIFCO Futures Co.  Imports by China rose to a record 74.6 million tons in
September, according to data released on Oct. 12 by the customs
agency. Chinese purchases account for about two-third of the
seaborne trade, which is the biggest global commodity cargo
after oil.  The contracts will be for 100 metric tons, have a daily
trading band of 4 percent and be denominated in  yuan , the bourse
said.  Spot contracts for  iron ore  for delivery at Tianjin port
traded at $133.10 a dry ton on Oct. 11, according to a price
gauge compiled by The Steel Index Ltd. The spot contract has
declined 8.1 percent this year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alfred Cang in Shanghai at 
 acang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  