-- China-to-India Price Jump Risks Growth as World Outlook Dims
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2013-10-14T12:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/china-to-india-price-jump-threatens-growth-as-world-outlook-dims.html
Higher food costs from China to
 India  are raising prices for a third of the world’s people,
adding to the challenge of sustaining the global economic
recovery as the growth outlook dims.  Consumer prices  in China rose 3.1 percent last month as
food costs advanced the most since May 2012, statistics bureau
figures showed today in Beijing, while India’s Commerce Ministry
said inflation unexpectedly accelerated to a seven-month high.
Both gauges increased more than economists had estimated.  “In both countries, in recent months, food seems to be the
primary driver of the increase in inflation,” said  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , a Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse
Group AG, who added that it’s “not the ideal combination” when
prices accelerate as growth slows. “It complicates the life of
the policy makers.”  The reports signal threats to growth in two of  Asia ’s three
biggest economies as a partial shutdown of the U.S. government
risks leading to a default that would roil financial markets and
cause recession. The International Monetary Fund cut its global
growth outlook last week as capital outflows further weaken
 emerging markets .  While China’s central bank faces less pressure to raise
borrowing costs, last month  Reserve Bank  of India Governor
Raghuram Rajan increased the benchmark repurchase rate to 7.5
percent to stem price gains.  India’s import costs have jumped as the rupee fell 14
percent over the past year against the dollar, compared with a
2.5 percent gain for China’s  yuan  in that time. China’s yuan
strengthened to a 20-year high after prices jumped and the
central bank set the currency’s reference rate at a record.  ‘More Worrying’  “For India’s case, growth is more worrying,” said Edward Lee, regional head of research at Standard Chartered Plc in
Singapore. The RBI is focused on bringing down prices, while
moderating growth in China will help to curb demand inflation,
he said.  The rupee weakened 0.3 percent to 61.2350 as of 2:45 p.m.
in Mumbai, the most among Asia’s most widely traded currencies,
while the yuan gained 0.1 percent.  China’s economy  probably expanded 7.8 percent in the three
months through September from a year earlier, according to a
Bloomberg survey, up from the second quarter’s 7.5 percent pace.
Overseas shipments dropped 0.3 percent in September from a year
earlier, customs data showed on Oct. 12, trailing all 46
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey, while imports rose a more-than-forecast 7.4 percent.  China Risk  “A big risk for  China  now is that the government has to
scale back its domestic pro-growth policies while external
demand fails to grow to make up the gap,” said Xu Gao, chief
economist with Everbright Securities Co. in Beijing, who
previously worked at the  World Bank . “If that happens, it will
result in very weak growth starting next year.”  The increase in China’s consumer-price index compares with
the 2.8 percent median estimate of 44 economists in a Bloomberg
survey, after a 2.6 percent gain in August. The government is
targeting 3.5 percent consumer inflation for the year.  “As the inflationary pressure has picked up, the central
bank is unlikely to change the tightening bias” in monetary
policy for the rest of the year, Liu Li-Gang, chief  Greater
China  economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
 Hong Kong , said in a note today.  The pickup in September’s CPI was driven by eggs,
vegetables, fruits and pork, as well as non-food items including
fuel and tourism, according to a statistics bureau statement
citing statistician Yu Qiumei. Non-food prices rose 1.6 percent
in September, below a 2 percent pace for a 20th month.  Expensive Onions  India’s  wholesale-price index  rose 6.46 percent from a year
earlier, compared with a 6.1 percent advance in August, the
Commerce Ministry said in  New Delhi  today. The median of 33
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 6 percent climb.  Food prices climbed 18.4 percent in September from a year
earlier, with onions costing four times more than they did a
year ago, today’s report showed. Fuel and power prices rose more
than 10 percent.  “This inflation reading further strengthens the case for a
hike in the repurchase rate,” said Prasanna Ananthasubramanian,
an economist at ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Ltd. in
Mumbai. The RBI is likely to raise the benchmark another 50
basis points by the end of this year.  The economy will expand 5 percent to 5.5 percent in the
fiscal year ending March, the Finance Ministry forecasts. HSBC
Holdings Plc predicts slower growth of 4 percent in that period,
which would be the weakest in more than a decade.  Near Bottom  The expansion in Asia’s third-largest economy is
“somewhere near the low,” Rajan, a former  International
Monetary Fund  chief economist, said in a speech in  Washington  on
Oct. 10. The pace should accelerate, helped by exports and farm
output, he said.  Consumer prices  rose 9.84 percent in September from a year
earlier, compared with 9.52 percent in August, a government
report showed today. That’s the second highest in the Group of
20 major economies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Given the RBI’s hawkish stance despite slowing growth, we
expect the repurchase rate to remain high for now,” Tirthankar Patnaik, a strategist at Religare Capital Markets Ltd. in
Mumbai, said before today’s report. “Rajan is aiming at getting
inflation under control, which is needed for ensuring sustained
long-term growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  