-- Chinese Tycoon Tong Said to Purchase More Than Half of Viva IPO
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-10-14T08:58:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/chinese-tycoon-tong-said-to-purchase-more-than-half-of-viva-ipo.html
Chinese property tycoon Tong Jinquan
agreed to buy more than half of the stock in Viva Industrial
Trust’s S$375 million ($301 million) initial public offering in
Singapore, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The chairman of Shanghai Summit Property Development Ltd.
will purchase S$200 million of shares in Viva Industrial as a
cornerstone investor, said the people, who asked not to be
identified as the details are private.  Tong, with a net worth of $2.3 billion according to the
 Hurun Research Institute , was an investor in  Perennial China
Retail Trust (PCRT) ’s IPO in May 2011. He sold his stake almost a year
later to investors including Wilmar International Ltd. co-founders Kuok Khoon Hong and Martua Sitorus for an undisclosed
price.  Cornerstone investors receive guaranteed allocation of
shares in IPOs. By the time Tong, 58, sold his Perennial  China 
holding, the shares had fallen almost 30 percent from their IPO
price of 70 Singapore cents. The trust closed at 53.50 cents in
 Singapore trading  today.  A person who answered the phone at Shanghai Summit’s office
said Tong was traveling and couldn’t immediately be reached.
Wilson Ang, chief executive officer of Viva Industrial’s
management company, declined to comment.  Perennial China bought a 50 percent stake in Chengdu
Longemont Shopping Mall Development from Tong and his companies
for 2.28 billion  yuan  ($376 million) in 2011.  Tong’s ranking among China’s richest people fell to 72nd
this year from No. 22 the year before, when he was worth $3.5
billion, according to Hurun. Shanghai Summit is closely held.  Viva Industrial plans to offer a 2014 dividend yield of
about 8.8 percent in its IPO, people with knowledge of the
matter said last month. The trust will be backed by three
industrial properties in Singapore, they said. Viva Industrial
will start taking orders for shares from other investors next
week, according to the people.  Standard Chartered Plc, Bank of America Corp. and HSBC
Holdings Plc are arranging the share sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in  Singapore  at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  