-- China Rail Shares Rise on Thai High-Speed Rail: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-14T04:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/china-rail-shares-rise-on-thai-high-speed-rail-shanghai-mover.html
China CNR Corp. (601299)  led gains in shares
of Chinese companies that build and supply equipment for
railways on speculation they will win contracts for the
construction of Thailand’s high-speed train system.  China CNR, which produces passenger cars and wagons, rose
by the 10 percent daily limit in Shanghai to 4.59  yuan , the
biggest one-day gain since February 2013.  CSR Corp. (601766) , which makes
locomotives and cars, and  Taiyuan Heavy Industry Co. (601169) , a maker of
train axles, also surged by the daily limit.  China Railway
Construction Corp. (601186)  rose 7.4 percent and  China Railway Group Ltd. (390) 
climbed 8.1 percent at the mid-day trading break. China’s
benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.5 percent.  The shares gained after Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra told reporters on Oct. 11 after meeting with Chinese
Premier  Li Keqiang  in Bangkok that Chinese train companies had
expressed interest in developing the southeastern Asian nation’s
high-speed train system. China and Thailand signed six initial
agreements during Li’s visit last week covering cooperation in
technology, energy, environment and culture.  Yingluck’s comment triggered “event-driven sentiment on
the railway stocks,” Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based fund manager at
Dragon Life Insurance Co., which oversees $3.3 billion, said by
telephone. “Besides the fact that railway investment is an
effective way to boost domestic demand, the government is now
also adopting a ‘going out’ strategy for the railway industry to
boost their competitiveness. That’ll boost the sector in the
medium and long term.”  Thailand and China earlier signed a railway cooperation
agreement including construction of high-speed lines when
Yingluck visited Beijing last year, according to the official
Xinhua News Agency.  The first phase of Thailand’s high-speed train system
includes total investment of 400 billion baht ($12.8 billion),
The Nation  reported  last year. China, Japan,  South Korea  and
France expressed interest in bidding for contracts to build the
network, according to the report.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  