-- China’s Rate Drops for Third Day as 10-Year Yield Rises
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-14T02:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/china-s-rate-drops-for-third-day-as-10-year-yield-rises.html
China’s benchmark money-market rate
declined for a third day as the central bank pumps in cash to
the financial system.  The People’s Bank of China asked local lenders to submit
orders for 28-day repurchase contracts as well as seven- and 14-day reverse repos, according to a trader at a primary dealer
required to bid at the auctions. It also gauged demand for 91-day bills planned for this week after adding net 33 billion  yuan 
($5.4 billion) to the market last week.  Government bonds  fell
after official data showed consumer prices rose by more than
economists predicted in September.  “The injections in open-market operations ensured cash
supply and with rates dipping, the amount of reverse-repurchase
contracts this week may drop,” said Zhang Guoyu, an analyst at
Orient Futures Co. in Shanghai. “The higher-than-expected CPI
boosted bond yields.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the banking system, declined 39 basis points, or
0.39 percentage point, to 3.86 percent as of 10:26 a.m. in
Shanghai, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. That’s the biggest drop since
Sept. 27.  CPI Report  The consumer-price index climbed 3.1 percent from a year
earlier in September,  China ’s National Bureau of Statistics
reported today. That compares with the 2.6 percent gain in
August and the median estimate of 2.8 percent in a Bloomberg
News survey.  The yield on the 4.08 percent bonds due August 2023 rose
five basis points to 4.1 percent, the highest level since Sept.
16, according to data from the Interbank Funding Center. The
cost of the one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed payment to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, was unchanged at 3.97
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s banking regulator plans to set an upper debt limit
for local governments, the 21st Century Business Herald reported
on Oct. 12, without saying where it got the information. The
nation’s auditing agency will submit a report to the cabinet in
mid-October after a three-month nationwide audit, according to
the article.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in  Shanghai  at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  