-- Cision Boosts Security as Fingerprint Calls It ‘Sloppy’
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-10-14T16:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/cision-steps-up-security-after-fraudulent-fingerprint-release.html
Cision AB (CSN) , the Swedish press-release
distributor, said it will only accept statements through its
online system after a fake release caused two biometric
companies’ shares to soar and led to a police probe.  The Stockholm-based distributor is no longer allowing
customers to file statements via e-mail after a fictitious Oct.
11 statement said Samsung Electronics Co. agreed to buy
 Fingerprint Cards AB. (FINGB)  Cision said it was probably deceived by an
individual who contacted the service and pretended to be a
Fingerprint executive.  “As of today, we won’t distribute any copy whatsoever
originating from an e-mail,” Magnus Thell, head of Cision in
 Sweden , said in a phone interview. “As of today the only way of
distributing press releases is through our online system. That
is our immediate measure in terms of changes.”  Fingerprint Cards, based in Gothenburg, Sweden, briefly
added about $200 million in market value after the press release
said Samsung had agreed to a $650 million takeover.  Precise
Biometrics AB (PREC) , another Swedish company that specializes in
biometric-sensor technology, also jumped. Trades made on both
stocks following the fake statement were canceled.  Cision has reported the case to the police, Thell said.  ‘Major Fraud’  Cision’s security routines were “lousy” and “sloppy,”
Fingerprint Cards Chief Executive Officer Johan Carlstroem said
in an interview. The distributor failed to verify the
authenticity of the release by calling the Fingerprint Cards
contact numbers they have on file before publishing, he said.
Carlstroem said he reported the case to the Swedish Financial
Supervisory Authority, which passed it on to the police.  “We see this as serious situation and are investigating
this as a case of major fraud,” Olof Kronlund, deputy chief
prosecutor at the Swedish Economic Crime Authority, said in a
statement on its website last week.  Cision fell as much as 3.7 percent and declined 3.1 percent
to 34.20 kronor at the 5:30 p.m. close in  Stockholm , extending a
5.4 percent decline on Oct. 11.  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) , Sweden’s largest phone company and one of
Cision’s customers, said that it doesn’t send releases to the
distributor by e-mail and that it has been satisfied with the
service.  “We always and only send via their online distribution
tool and are very happy with them,” said Kristina Hunter
Nilsson, a spokeswoman for the Stockholm-based phone carrier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  