-- Coal Slump Leaves Australia Port Half-Used, Lenders at Risk
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   P a u l i n a   D u r a n
-- 2013-10-15T03:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/coal-slump-leaves-aussie-port-half-used-and-bank-lenders-at-risk.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  are among lenders risking
losses on $3 billion of loans backing a coal port in  Australia 
that will be twice its required size.  Wiggins Island Coal Export Terminal Pty , the group
comprising the unfinished project’s owners, including  Glencore
Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  and  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) , in 2011 borrowed the debt from
19 banks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. When the port
in the state of Queensland begins shipping in early 2015, only
about half of its 27 million metric tons of initial annual
export capacity will be used after a slump in  coal demand ,
forecaster Wood Mackenzie Ltd. estimates.  “There will be more capacity than mines available to
utilize it,” Daniel Morgan, a Sydney-based analyst at UBS AG
said in a phone interview. “It may result in the banking
syndicate having to renegotiate the terms or the price, or
taking a writedown on their position.”  To secure the funding, Wiggins Island’s coal company owners
committed to take-or-pay contracts, which oblige them to still
pay for any of their unused export allocation. The junior owners
may struggle to meet those contractual obligations after falling
coal prices delayed new projects, said Morgan. The owners also
had to provide bank guarantees that covered them for a year if
they couldn’t make payment.  Lloyds Exclusion  Westpac, one of the  original lenders  to Wiggins Island,
excluded the project’s debt from a package of loans it bought
from Lloyds Banking Group Plc last week, when it acquired its
Australian assets, according to a person familiar with the
matter. The Sydney-based lender didn’t want any more exposure to
the project, that person said.  Glencore, the world’s biggest thermal coal exporter, is
trying to sell 5 million tons of a contracted 10.9 million tons
of Wiggins Island capacity to other users “due to changed
market circumstances,” according to Francis de Rosa, a Sydney-based spokesman. It hasn’t received any offers, he said.  Spokesmen for Westpac, ANZ and Commonwealth Bank of
Australia declined to comment on the loans and  National
Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , wasn’t available to comment. All were
included in the original syndicate, Bloomberg-compiled data
show. Westpac wasn’t available to comment on the exclusion of
Wiggins’s debt from the Lloyds purchase.  Alasdair Jeffrey, an external spokesman for the Wiggins
Island project, wasn’t immediately able to comment on the port’s
contract obligations, or Westpac’s exclusion, when contacted by
phone.  Subordinated Debt  The Wiggins Island bank debt comprises a $2.85 billion
seven-year term loan, a $50 million working capital facility and
a $100 million letter of credit, Bloomberg-compiled data show.
The letter of credit also has a seven-year maturity while the
working capital loan is tied to the port’s completion date,
expected in early 2014, the data show. The package included
senior and subordinated debt arranged by ANZ, according to
Wiggins’ website.  “The development has a complex capital structure which
will present challenges if there are any issues in cost
overruns,” said Chris Wyke, a Sydney-based managing director at
financial adviser Moelis & Co. “It’s reportedly on track for
completion, after which there are very real risks that some of
the parties can’t meet their take-or-pay obligations.”  Aquila, Bandanna  More than 60 percent of the port’s first stage is already
built, said Jeffrey. Its capacity has the potential to expand to
80 million tons over two more stages, he said. The port’s other
owners are Yanzhou Coal Mining Co.’s Yancoal Australia Ltd.,
 Aquila Resources Ltd. (AQA) ,  Bandanna Energy Ltd. (BND) ,  Cockatoo Coal Ltd. (COK) ,
Guangdong Rising Assets Management Co. and New Hope Corp,
according to Wiggins’ website.  “Over the opening years of the terminal, between 2015 and
2017, we’d expect capacity utilization between 40 percent and 60
percent,” Ben Willacy, Wood Mackenzie’s manager of coal cost
research in Sydney, said by phone. “That’s a result primarily
of projects that are due to be feeding Wiggins Island not being
developed on the original time frame that was planned.”  Companies are delaying new mines and expansions after a
supply glut in power-station coal forced prices to a four-year
low in August.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest exporter
of coking coal, last month flagged a “challenging” market for
steel-making coal because of muted demand and oversupply.  Power station coal prices have declined 36 percent to
$78.65 a ton since September 2011, when the Wiggins debt was
finalized.  Steel-making coal  fell 47 percent to $147.75 a ton
over that time frame, according to Energy Publishing Inc.  More Capacity  At Wesfarmers’ Curragh mine which currently ships through
the Port of Gladstone, an expansion of capacity to 10 million
tons annually from about 8.5 million tons “will be dependent
upon market conditions,” according to its annual report. Kent
Beasley, a spokesman for the company’s resources unit, declined
to comment on the use of its 1.5 million-ton annual allocation
at Wiggins Island.  “You’ve got a number of large coal companies in that first
stage with established coal operations -- Glencore Xstrata,
Wesfarmers and Yanzhou -- and those we anticipate will feed into
stage one very easily,” Wood Mackenzie’s Willacy said. “But it
will be harder to develop new greenfield projects in time for
the start of the terminal.”  Bandanna and Guangdong Rising Assets Management plan to
develop greenfield projects, he said.  Junior coal miners are struggling with reduced valuations
in the “current atmosphere,” said UBS’s Morgan. “The ability
to sell down a stake in their projects to help with finance is
also problematic - it’s a buyers’ market.”  Potential Partners  A planned mid-2015 production start for Bandanna’s A$700
million ($662 million) Springsure Creek thermal coal project is
subject to funding and government approvals, the company said
last month. Bandanna, with a market value of A$95 million and
about A$74 million in cash as of June 30, has sought potential
partners since 2011. It’s contracted to pay Wiggins Island A$54
million annually, according to a May 1 Credit Suisse report,
citing company data.  Bandanna last month delayed the start of rail services and
related take-or-pay charges with coal haulage provider Asciano
Ltd. from 2014 to 2016, according to a statement.  “The debt holders will likely have to share some pain and
provide concessions,” said Paul McTaggart, a resources analyst
at Credit Suisse Group AG in Sydney. “Putting coal juniors out
of business would mean no coal at all and that’s certainly not
what the debt providers would want.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  