-- Conditions for Hong Kong Peg to Yuan Don’t Exist, HKMA Chan Says
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-10-14T09:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/conditions-for-hong-kong-peg-to-yuan-don-t-exist-hkma-chan-says.html
The conditions required to peg the
 Hong Kong  dollar to the  yuan  don’t exist and there is no need or
intention to change the current system, the city’s monetary
authority chief said.  “One important pre-condition is that the ‘anchor’ currency
must be totally and freely convertible so that we could hold the
currency assets as backing for the Hong Kong dollar,” Chief
Executive  Norman Chan  wrote in a column published on the Hong
Kong Monetary Authority’s  website  today. “This is crucial in
upholding confidence in the Hong Kong dollar and maintaining
exchange-rate stability.”  He added that it is “too early to consider the use of
 renminbi  as our anchor currency while it is not yet freely
convertible and the capital account of the mainland is still not
fully liberalized.”  Hong Kong linked its exchange rate to the  U.S. dollar  on
Oct. 17, 1983, when negotiations between China and the U.K. over
the city’s return to Chinese rule spurred capital outflows. The
currency has been kept at around HK$7.8 per U.S. dollar since
then. In 2005, policy makers committed to limiting the
currency’s decline to HK$7.85 per dollar and capping gains at
HK$7.75. The  Hong Kong dollar  was little changed at HK$7.7544 as
of 4:56 p.m. local time, while the city’s stock market was shut
for a public holiday.  China’s Yuan  China ended its currency peg to the dollar in 2005 after
keeping the exchange rate stable for a decade. The yuan now
trades in a managed range against a basket of major currencies,
with different rates inside and outside of China. Its daily
moves in Shanghai are limited to 1 percent on either side of a
 reference rate  set daily by the People’s Bank of China.  HSBC Holdings Plc forecast in a March report that the yuan
will become freely convertible within five years, while Premier
 Li Keqiang  signaled in May that the government will propose
plans this year to allow freer flows in and out of the nation as
part of measures to loosen control over the yuan and on  interest
rates .  The HKMA holds more than $300 billion of foreign-exchange
assets, mostly in the greenback, Chan said. If the peg’s anchor
currency were changed to the yuan, the authority will need to
hold almost 2 trillion yuan ($327 billion) in assets, which is
more than the size of the entire offshore yuan market, he said.  The yuan has appreciated 35 percent against the greenback
since the end of its peg in July 2005, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency has advanced 2 percent this
year, bucking declines in 10 other Asian currencies including
India’s rupee and Indonesia’s rupiah. The Hong Kong dollar is
little changed.  Turmoil, Resilience  “Whenever Hong Kong experienced turmoil, the linked
 exchange rate  system demonstrated its resilience and served as
the cornerstone for Hong Kong’s monetary and financial
stability,” Chan said.  A strong Hong Kong dollar would be “quite a negative
factor” for the city’s exporters as that would make their goods
more expensive, Chan said. If the city’s currency were pegged to
the yuan, exports and overall competitiveness would
substantially weaken, he added.  “Let me affirm that, for the reasons set out above, there
is neither the need or the intention to change the linked
exchange rate system,” Chan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  