-- Crude Falls as U.S. Lawmakers Fail to Agree on Debt Limit
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-10-14T13:42:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/crude-falls-as-u-s-lawmakers-fail-to-agree-on-debt-limit.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell
as U.S. lawmakers have yet to agree on raising the nation’s debt
limit, bolstering concern of a potential default that may slow
economic growth and reduce fuel demand.  Futures slid as much as 0.9 percent after Senate leaders
wrapped up almost four hours of debate without resolution as the
government’s borrowing authority is due to lapse in three days.
A partial U.S. government shutdown began on Oct. 1. Net crude
imports from China, the biggest oil-consuming country after the
U.S., rose to a record 25.61 million metric tons last month,
customs data released on Oct. 12 showed.  “We’ve been moving lower to sideways since the shutdown
and this will continue through the debt-ceiling negotiations,”
said  Addison Armstrong , director of market research at Tradition
Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “There’s well-warranted
caution in the market because of the risk of default, which
would have terrible economic consequences. We touched $100.60
Friday, the lowest level since July, which is now our target.”  WTI crude for November delivery dropped 64 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $101.38 at 9:10 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The volume of all futures traded was 3.5 percent above
the 100-day average.  Brent oil for November settlement fell $1.03, or 0.9
percent, to $110.25 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Volume was 27 percent lower than the 100-day
average. The European benchmark crude traded at a $8.87 premium
to WTI, narrowing for the first time in six sessions.  Economic Threat  The congressional deadlock over the debt ceiling is
threatening the U.S. and world economies, International Monetary
Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said on NBC’s “Meet
the Press” program. The U.S. accounted for 21 percent of global
petroleum consumption last year, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy.  “ Oil prices  are unable to profit for the threat of U.S.
insolvency continues to hang over the markets like the sword of
Damocles,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG
in  Frankfurt .  Oil traders are losing a key weekly report on supplies
because of the U.S. government shutdown, threatening to reduce
market volume and boost volatility. The Energy Information
Administration ceased operations and furloughed staff, stopping
publications such as the 34-year-old Weekly Petroleum Status
Report on Wednesdays, which includes crude and gasoline data.
The Commodity Futures Trading Commission has also suspended its
Commitments of Traders reports on Fridays.  API Report  The EIA suspension means the market will turn to commercial
reports from organizations such as the  American Petroleum
Institute , an industry-funded group that gives paying
subscribers first access to the information.  “We are trading in an information vacuum with the lack of
the CFTC and Energy Department reports,” Armstrong said.  China’s net crude imports are equivalent to an average 6.26
million barrels a day, 25 percent more than in August and 2
percent higher than the previous record of 6.13 million barrels
a day in July, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The premium for the earliest deliveries of crude from
Cushing,  Oklahoma , the biggest oil storage hub in the U.S., is
declining after averaging a record during the third quarter as
refineries shut for maintenance and the nation boosts output.  The gap between front-month WTI and contracts for delivery
a year later was $6.90 a barrel Oct. 11, after averaging $11.70
in the third quarter, as concern eased that tanks at Cushing,
the delivery point for WTI, would drop to minimum levels and
limit the amount of oil available for delivery right away.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  