-- CSR CEO Scours Globe for Startups in Connected-Devices Push
-- B y   S a m   C h a m b e r s   a n d   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-10-15T15:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/csr-chief-scours-globe-for-startups-in-connected-devices-push.html
CSR Plc (CSR) , a pioneer of Bluetooth
technology, is on a round-the-world shopping trip, looking for
small companies that can boost its prowess in mapping, voice
recognition and other areas.  “We have a small team that’s going literally around the
world, here in  Israel , in Silicon Valley, in  Asia , looking for
these types of interesting, usually young technology
companies,” Chief Executive Officer Joep van Beurden said
yesterday in Tel Aviv.  CSR, based in Cambridge,  England , is seeking to profit from
the rise in consumer demand for connected devices and the launch
of additional satellite positioning systems, which the company
supports. It’s focusing on so-called bolt-on acquisitions in a
range of technologies that could immediately fit CSR’s needs,
van Beurden said.  “In imaging, for instance something in 3-D sensing could
potentially make sense, or something in voice recognition,” van
Beurden said. Map-sensor software makers could also be of
interest, he said. “It’s a very target-rich environment.”  The  shares  rose 3.4 percent to 534.5 pence at 3:58 p.m. in
London trading, giving CSR a market value of 886.5 million
pounds ($1.4 billion).  Indoor Navigation  The company is also working on location technology to use
indoors in spaces like shopping malls, airports and hospitals,
where there aren’t satellite signals, van Beurden said.  “You need to use dead-reckoning algorithms, Wi-Fi beacons,
potentially Bluetooth beacons, to find your way and navigate,”
van Beurden said, adding that CSR has a demonstration version of
the technology now and is talking to potential partners for it.
“We’re spending a lot of time and efforts in this” as being
the first company to offer it would be a “game changer.”  CSR has seen its share price more than double since selling
its wireless unit to Samsung Electronics Co. last year for $310
million in cash. Samsung also purchased a 5 percent stake in CSR
at the time of the deal. CSR’s offerings have a broad range of
applications in smartphones, as well as in cars and personal
navigation devices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sam Chambers in London at 
 schambers7@bloomberg.net ;
David Wainer in  Tel Aviv  at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  