-- Dalian Exchange to Start Iron Ore Futures for Physical Delivery
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-14T05:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/dalian-exchange-to-start-iron-ore-futures-for-physical-delivery.html
Dalian Commodity Exchange is set to
start trading the first  iron ore  futures contracts for physical
delivery as early as this week as  China  seeks greater control
of price setting for the steel-making material.  Trading will begin “as soon as possible” and Oct. 18 is
among the dates being considered after the securities regulator
approved the listing of contracts last week, Wang Weijun, a
spokesman for the bourse in the northeastern port city, said by
telephone today.  Chinese steelmakers, the world’s biggest iron ore buyers,
earlier this year questioned the reliability of a  price index 
provided by Platts that became a benchmark after producers
including Vale SA and Rio Tinto Group scrapped annual contract
price talks in 2010. China started its own spot trading platform
last year, introducing a weighted average daily price in March.  “Trading iron ore futures may take off quickly because
investors are already familiar with steel-related products
including rebar contracts on the Shanghai Futures Exchange,”
said Wang Yongliang, an analyst at Beijing CIFCO Futures Co.  The contracts will be for 100 metric tons, have a daily
trading band of 4 percent and be denominated in  yuan , the
exchange said in a separate e-mailed statement yesterday. Iron
ore futures already offered by Singapore Exchange Ltd., CME
Group Inc. and  Intercontinental Exchange  Inc. are based on
indexes rather than the physical commodity, according to the
statement.  The Dalian bourse, China’s third-largest futures exchange
by volume, will provide an “objective and fair” pricing
mechanism, it said.  Imports by China rose to a record 74.6 million tons in
September, according to data released on Oct. 12 by the customs
agency. The seaborne trade is the biggest global commodity cargo
after oil.  Iron ore  for immediate delivery at Tianjin port traded at
$133.10 a dry ton on Oct. 11, according to a price index
compiled by The Steel Index Ltd. The spot contract has declined
8.1 percent this year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alfred Cang in Shanghai at 
 acang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  