-- Danone’s Dumex Suspends Baby Health Plan on Bribery Claim
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-15T01:58:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/danone-s-dumex-to-take-disciplinary-action-amid-china-claims.html
Danone (BN) ’s Dumex baby nutrition unit
said it will take disciplinary measures and strengthen
governance in China after a government body and state media
accused it of paying doctors to drum up infant-formula sales.  The Danone unit paid medical workers in China’s northern
city of Tianjin to promote its infant formula, the local
government said yesterday. Dumex takes “full accountability”
and plans to appoint new management while suspending a health-education program for Chinese mothers, it said in a statement.  The allegations are another setback for the brand in China,
where it was fined in a separate price-fixing probe and recalled
some products on contamination concern earlier this year. The
Asian nation has sought to crack down on corruption in its $350
billion health-care market, probing multiple drug companies amid
claims of doctors’ involvement in malfeasance.  The bribery report “certainly doesn’t help the brand
equity of Dumex,” said  Warren Ackerman , an analyst at  Societe
Generale  in  London . “Consumers seem to be sensitive to things
like this.”  State-run  China Central Television  in September claimed
that Dumex paid hospital staff in several Chinese provinces to
sell its products amid fierce competition among baby-formula
makers. An official investigation found that 116 employees in 85
medical institutions had broken rules since 2011 and accepted
payments from the French formula maker, according to a post on
Tianjin’s official microblog.  The  World Health Organization   recommends breastfeeding 
babies exclusively for the first six months and says promoting
formula can undermine young children’s health by misleading
mothers into thinking it’s the healthier alternative.  Milk Recall  “Dumex policies include support for maternal
breastfeeding, as well as compliance with all local and national
regulations in  China ,” the company said. “The educational
program was not appropriately managed in some cases. This
resulted in some practices that contradicted the purpose of the
program.”  Dumex will implement a three-month mandatory training
program in marketing responsibility for all employees to ensure
“full compliance” with internal policies as well as local and
national regulations, it said in the statement.  Dumex did not elaborate on those practices or confirm the
details of the government’s allegations. A Danone spokeswoman
did not return a call and an e-mail seeking comment.  Increased Scrutiny  The Tianjin allegations reflect the increased government
scrutiny that local and international companies are facing in
China.  China in July detained four senior GlaxoSmithKline Plc
executives on suspicion of economic crimes involving 3 billion
 yuan  ($491 million) of spurious travel and meeting expenses and
receiving sexual favors. Baby formula companies from Danone to
Nestle have have also been probed on pricing in the country.  Danone was fined 172 million yuan by China’s top economic
planning body in August for fixing milk-powder prices. That
prompted the Paris-based company to reduce prices for its
products there by as much as 20 percent. It also issued a
precautionary recall of some formula in eight markets that month
after a supplier said the items might have been affected by a
contaminated whey-protein ingredient.  Danone’s baby-nutrition sales will fall in the third
quarter because the recalls had a “significant” impact on
sales in  Asia , the company said in August. Danone ranks as the
third-largest formula maker in China, with a 9.2 percent market
share last year, according to Euromonitor International.  The company, which also bottles Evian water and makes
Dannon yogurts, is scheduled to report  third-quarter  sales on
Oct. 16.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  