-- Danske Bank Fires Head of Treasury One Month After Ousting CEO
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-10-14T07:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/danske-bank-fires-head-of-treasury-one-month-after-ousting-ceo.html
     Oct. 14 (Bloomberg) -- Danske Bank A/S fired its head of
treasury less than a month after ousting its chief executive
officer as  Denmark ’s biggest lender carves out a new strategy.  Danske dismissed Steen Blaafalk, ending the 52-year-old’s
three-decade-long career at the Copenhagen-based bank. Blaafalk
confirmed by phone today that he has left the bank, while
declining to comment further. The firing comes less than a month
after Danske named Thomas F. Borgen to replace Eivind Kolding as
chief executive officer.  “We can confirm that he has left the bank,” Niels
Overgaard, a Danske spokesman, said by phone. “We cannot say
anything more than that.” He also declined to say whether the
firing is part of a broader management review at the bank and
didn’t say how Danske will go about replacing Blaafalk.  Borgen, who became CEO after leading Danske’s corporate and
institutional banking unit, said in an interview this month the
lender’s performance over the past five years “has not been
satisfactory” as he unveiled a set of measures to revive
business. Blaafalk had struggled to bring down the bank’s
funding costs amid stricter  capital requirements . Danske most
recently called a hybrid bond after the security lost its equity
content following a review by  Standard & Poor’s .  Management Upheaval  Blaafalk’s departure marks the sixth member of the bank’s
top management to leave since the beginning of last year.  “It’s only natural that Thomas Borgen wants to put
together a management team of his own, being the incoming CEO,”
Christian Hede, an analyst at Jyske Bank A/S, said by phone.
“But Blaafalk leaving markets creates the fourth vacancy in the
top 10 jobs of the bank, so now he’s got plenty of options to
set that team of his.”  Danske’s management upheaval follows a series of setbacks
starting with the lender’s expansion into Ireland at the height
of the nation’s property bubble. The bank’s international
ambitions, under then CEO  Peter Straarup , put the entire Danish
economy at risk, according to a report last month by a
government-appointed committee investigating the causes of
Denmark’s financial crisis.  Under Kolding, who was fired last month after Chairman Ole Andersen said he lacked the relevant banking expertise, Danske
lost customers after introducing a new pricing model that
rewarded customers with the most business there.  The plan, and an advertising campaign to promote it, was
slammed by local media and Danske in June fired its head of
communications, Eva Hald.  Danske has struggled to compete with its Swedish
competitors in delivering investor returns. Danske shares have
gained 20 percent in the past five years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a 37 percent increase
at Stockholm-based  Nordea Bank AB. (NDA)  Danske hasn’t paid its
shareholders a dividend in the period and it delivered a return
on equity in the first six months of 2013 that was about half a
12 percent target the bank has said it’s working toward.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at
   fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  