-- Dassault Systemes Slumps After Missing Sales Target: Paris Mover
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-10-14T08:24:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/dassault-systemes-quarterly-sales-miss-targets-on-client-delays.html
Dassault Systemes SA (DSY) , the  software
developer  whose clients include Benetton Group SpA, fell the
most in almost five years after reporting third-quarter sales
that fell short of the company’s forecast.  The stock dropped as much as 10 percent in Paris, the
biggest intraday drop since January 2009, and traded 6.5 percent
lower at 90.10 euros as of 9:54 a.m. in Paris.  Revenue of 496 million euros ($673 million) missed a target
of 520 million euros as customers took longer to make decisions
on spending, the company, based in the Paris suburb of Velizy
Villacoublay, said today, citing preliminary figures. Dassault
Systemes, which develops 3-D software for industrial clients,
said it may also reduce its projections for the current quarter
on Oct. 24.  “While Dassault Systemes resisted pretty well during the
crisis, it seems to have been affected on a delayed basis
compared to rivals and large software powerhouses,” Gregory Ramirez, an analyst at Bryan Garnier & Co., wrote in a note.  The company, which competes with  SAP AG (SAP)  and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,
said third-quarter earnings per share declined 1 percent to 88
cents, and the quarterly operating margin was 31.6 percent which
was “slightly better than expected.”  Dassault Systemes, whose biggest shareholder is French
businessman Serge Dassault’s family-run holding Dassault Group,
said it may reduce its fourth-quarter revenue target by 20
million euros to as low as 565 million euros to reflect shifts
to software renting business models, transaction delays as well
as currency weakness in emerging economies.  The fourth-quarter non-International Financial Reporting
Standards EPS target may be 97 cents, and the non-IFRS operating
margin will be about 34 percent, the company said.  Shares of Dassault Systemes have gained 14 percent between
the end of last year and Oct. 11. The company has a market value
of 11.4 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  