-- De Beers Squeezes Diamond Buyers Who Flip Gems: Chart of the Day
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-10-14T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/de-beers-squeezes-diamond-buyers-who-flip-gems-chart-of-the-day.html
De Beers  is driving margins on its
diamond output higher by squeezing out buyers who sell rough
stones instead of polishing them, consulting firm Gemdax says.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows how the biggest diamond company
has offered buyers a narrower discount to secondary cash-market
prices in the two years since Chief Executive Officer Philippe
Mellier was appointed, according to data compiled by Gemdax. The
difference shrank to an average 1.1 percent from 5.5 percent. De
Beers traditionally sells stones at a discount to so-called
sightholders, who cut and polish gems before selling them on.  “We want sightholders that are able to add value and make
money,” Varda Shine, CEO of De Beers’ trading arm, said in an
interview. “We don’t want people that just flip. We are going
to see a much flatter supply chain and we are going to see
companies with more value addition doing better than companies
which just flip goods from one hand to the other.”  De Beers broke with a tradition of hiring internally when
it appointed Mellier, an engineer with a transport background.
 Anglo American Plc (AAL)  paid $5.2 billion to raise its stake to 85
percent, while diamonds made up about 17 percent of its first-half operating income, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company needs to balance its desire to halt flipping of
rough diamonds against the risk of discouraging investment in
the industry and hurting prices in the longer term, according to
Anish Aggarwal, a partner at Antwerp, Belgium-based Gemdax.  “De Beers made a conscious decision to change their
pricing,” he said. “What De Beers is trying to do is push out
players that simply box flip. It’s a tempting business model to
go for if you have a built-in margin. It’s not a business that
requires a great deal of infrastructure or capital investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  