-- Death Toll Rises to 111 in Central Indian Hindu Temple Stampede
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-10-14T05:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/death-toll-rises-to-111-in-central-indian-hindu-temple-stampede.html
At least 111 were killed in
yesterday’s stampede near a Hindu temple in central  India  as
rumors that a bridge was about to collapse triggered panic and
caused pilgrims to jump into the river below.  The police have searched the river for bodies and the death
toll is unlikely to rise much further, said S.M. Afzal,
Inspector General of Police for the Chambal Range in  Madhya
Pradesh . Twenty two people are still in hospital, he said.  About half a million pilgrims had converged in Datia
district’s Ratangarh for a festival, according to D.K. Arya, a
deputy inspector general of police in the state. About 25,000
were crossing the bridge at the time the rumors started to
spread, he said. Television images showed bodies and clothes
strewn on the bridge as relatives tried to identify the victims.  The local administration has ordered a probe on what caused
the panic, the Times of India reported today. A similar incident
at the same place in 2006 had washed away about 50 people,
according to the newspaper.  Stampedes during mass gatherings occur regularly at
religious festivals in India. Yesterday’s was the deadliest in
the country since September 2008, when at least 147 people died
at a temple in Jodhpur in the western state of Rajasthan. A
month earlier 145 people, including 30 children, died in
 Himachal Pradesh , in India’s north, as a landslide prompted
pilgrims to flee a hilltop shrine.  In February, a crowd surge at a  railway station  in northern
India killed at least 36 people as Hindu devotees drawn by one
of the holiest days of the world’s largest religious gathering
rushed to board trains.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  