-- Dimon Defended as ‘Best Manager’ by Board Member Jackson
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-10-14T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/dimon-defended-as-best-manager-by-board-member-jackson.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  deserves shareholders’ support even as
mounting legal costs fueled the first quarterly loss of his
tenure, said board member Laban P. Jackson.  “He’s the best manager I’ve ever seen, and I’m old,”
Jackson, 71, said yesterday at the National Association of
Corporate Directors’ annual conference in Oxon Hill,  Maryland .
“He has, as we all do, flaws.”  JPMorgan agreed to pay $920 million in penalties last month
to settle probes of a multibillion-dollar trading loss, one of
myriad woes that forced the New York-based lender to set aside
$28 billion for legal costs since early 2010. The debacle was
caused by a group of “renegades” inside the chief investment
office who thought they had found the perfect trade, said 
Jackson, who heads the  audit committee .  “People get to smoking their own dope,” Jackson said.
“I’m sure there was some hubris involved.”  Senior executives had evidence by late April 2012 that
traders in the chief investment office in London were pricing a
derivatives portfolio in a way that reduced reported losses, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said last month in a cease-and-desist  order . Those top managers didn’t pass the information
to Jackson’s audit committee, and the bank was forced to restate
results once the full extent of the losses was revealed, the SEC
said.  Jackson, when asked about Dimon’s openness with the board
about the trade, said communication was the “least of our
problems.”  ‘So Politicized’  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by  assets , said last week
that it took a $7.2 billion charge for expenses tied to
regulatory matters and  litigation  and faces investigations into
mortgage bonds, energy trading and hiring practices in  Asia .
Jackson said that regulators face political pressure to generate
fines and penalties.  “The regulators in this country and around the world have
been so politicized,” he said. “We’re just going to have to
put up with this.”  Jackson was on the board of Bank One Corp. while Dimon, 57,
was CEO at that firm and moved to JPMorgan after the two
companies combined in 2004. Jackson is chairman of real-estate
developer Clear Creek Properties Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  