-- Dollar Advances Versus Euro as Debt Deadline Looms
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-10-15T21:28:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/dollar-holds-losses-versus-euro-as-equities-signal-deal-optimism.html
The dollar gained versus the euro
for the first time in three days as U.S. lawmakers worked to end
the two-week government shutdown and keep the U.S. from
exhausting its ability to borrow money.  The yen jumped from a two-week low versus the U.S. currency
after  Fitch Ratings  put the nation’s AAA credit grade on rating
watch negative, saying the authorities have failed to raise the
debt ceiling as the deadline looms. Senate leaders said talks on
a bipartisan plan were put on hold two days before the debt-limit deadline while the House considers its competing measure.
Norway’s krone slid as the nation’s trade surplus shrank.  “A deal looked possible over the weekend, and we’ve had
nothing but negative news and the latest sentiment is definitely
negative,” Chris Gaffney, senior market strategist at Everbank
Wealth Management Inc., said in an interview from  St. Louis .
“The yen is seen as a safe-haven currency, and it’s getting a
lot of interest because of that.”  The dollar gained 0.3 percent to $1.3524 per euro at 5 p.m.
 New York  time. It reached $1.3480, the strongest level since
Sept. 30, before the U.S. government shutdown. The greenback
sank as much as 0.6 percent to 98 yen before trading at 98.16
yen, down 0.4 percent. Earlier it touched 98.70 yen, the
strongest level since Oct. 1. The euro slid 0.7 percent to
132.76 yen.  Norway’s krone fell against all of its 16 most-traded peers
as a report showed the nation’s trade surplus decreased in
September, while separate data showed  house prices  fell more
than economists forecast in the third quarter.  ‘Disappointing Data’  “This disappointing data we’ve had today has probably seen
investors take a step back from entering long-krone positions,”
Michael Sneyd, a foreign-exchange strategist at BNP Paribas SA
in  London , said of the currency. “The  trade balance  has
narrowed quite significantly.” Long positions are bets an asset
will gain in value.  The krone weakened 0.8 percent to 6.0228 per dollar and
lost 0.5 percent to 8.1450 per euro.  Australia ’s dollar climbed to the highest level since June
versus the U.S. currency as traders pared wagers for further
interest-rate cuts by the central bank this year. Minutes of its
Oct 1 meeting showed policy makers agreed “the bank should
again neither close off the possibility of reducing rates
further nor signal an imminent intention to reduce them.”  The Aussie advanced 0.4 percent to 95.26 U.S. cents and
touched 95.48 U.S. cents, the strongest since June 19.  House Vote  Senate Democrats  leaving a party meeting today blamed House
Speaker  John Boehner  for undercutting the talks between Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell .
House Republicans’ plan contains policy conditions Democrats
have rejected.  The House will vote as soon as tonight on legislation that
would extend government funding through Dec. 15 -- not the Jan.
15, 2014, date in a potential Senate deal -- and omit a delay in
the medical device tax discussed earlier today, said House Ways
and Means Committee member Devin Nunes, a California Republican.  The revised proposal still would suspend the $16.7 trillion
debt limit through Feb. 7, 2014, and temporarily prevent the
administration from using what are known as extraordinary
measures to delay a debt-ceiling breach, said an aide who spoke
on condition of anonymity to discuss the plan.  Hand Grenade  Boehner earlier told a closed-door meeting of Republicans
the Senate measure was a hand grenade coming at the House, said
Representative  John Fleming , a Louisiana Republican.  “We just need to wait and see what the House does,” said
Adam Jentleson, a spokesman for Reid. “We expect them to fail,
and then the Senate deal will re-emerge.”  Without an agreement, U.S. borrowing authority lapses on
Oct. 17, the Treasury has said. The federal government would
start missing payments sometime between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  “It’s a fairly common shared view that something will
probably get passed,”  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency
sales in New York at Mizuho Financial Group Inc., said in a
phone interview. “People are staying a bit neutral in terms of
taking a position here with any kind of conviction.”  The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, rose 0.1 percent to 1,012.59
after declining 0.2 percent in the past two days.  “The dollar has been sold off too much against the other
major currencies,” said Kasper Kirkegaard, a senior strategist
at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen. “Any changes in sentiment
will make it strengthen.”  The U.S. currency declined 0.7 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The euro gained 0.9 percent,
while the yen rose 0.3 percent.  Volatility Gain  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index, a  gauge 
of price swings, rose to 8.3 percent after dropping to as low as
8.28 percent, the lowest level since Jan. 24. The average this
year is 9.35 percent.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $45 billion, from $33 billion yesterday, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the euro-dollar  exchange rate  amounted to $8.1 billion, the largest share
of trades at 17.9 percent. Options on the dollar-yen rate
totaled $8 billion, or 17.7 percent.  Euro-dollar options trading was 274 percent more than the
average for the past five Tuesdays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Dollar-yen options trading was
96 percent above average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in New York at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  