-- The Economics Nobel Highlights a Big Unanswered Question
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-14T19:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/the-economics-nobel-highlights-a-big-unanswered-question.html
The  awarding of  a  Nobel Prize  to
three economists with divergent views on the working of markets
highlights a troubling truth about the state of the discipline:
We still don’t know nearly enough about why the prices of
stocks, bonds and other assets move the way they do.  If the economics profession wants to help the world avert -
- or at least better survive -- financial crises, it will have
to be more open to new ways of looking at this question.  The recipients of this year’s Sveriges Riksbank Prize in
Economic Sciences -- Eugene F. Fama and Lars Peter Hansen of the
 University of Chicago  and Robert J. Shiller of  Yale University  -
- have all made important contributions to the understanding of
financial markets. Fama demonstrated that markets are very good
at processing new information quickly. Shiller showed that
despite this, prices can get out of whack and stay there for
long periods of time. Hansen provided tools to help figure out
whether markets’ often odd behavior can happen in a world where
investors are rational, or must be explained by human bias or
some other malfunction.  Unfortunately, decades after the three economists had their
groundbreaking insights, the crucial question remains
unanswered: Can policy makers know with any certainty when
markets are dangerously out of line, and is there anything they
can do about it?  Central bankers still debate whether it’s possible to
recognize asset bubbles when they occur, and whether they can or
should be deflated. Regulators and bankers are still at odds
over new financial products such as  credit derivatives : Do they
simply improve the market’s ability to process and reflect
information, or do they also present new dangers of their own?  This is a failure that left the world unprepared for the
most recent financial crisis, and the economics profession has
been far too complacent about it. Economists can’t be expected
to predict the future. But they should be able to identify
threatening trends, and to better understand the conditions that
can turn a change in prices into a financial tsunami.  On the margins, economists are doing promising work,
together with researchers from other disciplines such as
physics. Some, taking their cue from the computer modeling that
helps forecast events such as hurricanes, are trying to build
 more realistic  models of markets and the economy that  take into
account  the interactions of countless individuals. Others are
looking at how investors with differing views, using  leverage ,
can  turn  otherwise benign financial instruments into tools of
disaster.  What’s amazing is that the largest and most prestigious
universities aren’t placing more emphasis on such paradigm-shifting work. For young researchers trying to get published and
land good jobs in academia, challenging the conventional wisdom
-- and questioning the workings of a financial industry that
provides lucrative backing to business schools -- can be
 perilous . The commanding heights are often occupied by tenured
professors heavily invested in the status quo.  This year’s Nobel shows the economics discipline in all its
frustrating, admirable splendor. With apologies to  Harry
Truman ’s  jaundiced view  of economists, it’s only a matter of
time before the joke starts making the rounds: Did you hear
about the two economists who couldn’t agree on how markets work?
Yeah, they won a Nobel for it.  Yet if better understanding of that question is possible,
it will come only through trial and error, the positing and
refuting of theories. This is exactly the kind of creative
thinking and intellectual risk-taking that Fama, Hansen and
 Shiller  engaged in. It’s also what the economics profession
needs more of as it continues to try to understand financial
markets and how they can go awry.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 