-- ECB to Demand Capital Surcharge for Big Banks, Mersch Tells FAZ
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-10-14T12:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/ecb-to-demand-capital-surcharge-for-big-banks-mersch-tells-faz.html
The  European Central Bank  will
require large banks to hold an extra capital buffer in the
asset-quality review it is scheduled to perform next year,
Executive Board member Yves Mersch told  Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung  in an interview published today.  “As we’re operating in the realm of the most important
banks in all member states, those ‘significant  credit
institutions ’ need a surcharge that reflects their extraordinary
relevance in the European context,” Mersch said.  The ECB will derive the  capital requirements  underlying its
review from European Union laws implementing standards defined
by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , Mersch said,
according to FAZ. Policy makers agreed on the rules for the
review last week and will publish them on Oct. 23, he said.  The ECB is slated to take over supervision of euro-area
banks next year, after a transition period in which it will
assess the quality of the assets of the region’s 130 biggest
banks and their resilience to shocks.  “We’re not primarily working toward quantifying a capital
gap,” Mersch said. “The main reason for combing through the
balance sheets is to restore international markets’ confidence
in banks’ balance sheets. That’s why the assessment is to be
done according to uniform specifications. Everybody will be
tested using the same methods.”  Under the EU laws implementing the so-called Basel III
accord, banks have to hold core capital equivalent to at least 7
percent of their risk-weighted assets. Banks have until 2023 to
comply with all new capital rules.  On top of that,  nine euro-area banks  listed by the
Financial Stability Board as globally systemically important
face surcharges of as much as 2.5 percent from 2016, according
to EU legislation. European regulators have the option to add
banks to the list.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  