-- Emerging ETF Rises on U.S. Debt Talks as Brazil Rallies
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-10-14T21:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/emerging-stocks-decline-from-4-month-high-on-u-s-debt-stalemate.html
The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index exchange-traded fund rose to a one-month high amid signs
of progress in U.S. Senate talks on a debt deal.  Brazil ’s
Ibovespa led gains among major developing-nation indexes.  The developing-nation ETF increased 0.6 percent to $43.08,
the highest level since Sept. 18. The MSCI Emerging Markets
Index declined 0.1 percent to 1,022.65. The Ibovespa climbed for
a fourth day as steelmaker Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA rallied.  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317)  drove technology
shares lower after KGI Securities Co. reduced its estimates for
shipments of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 5C handsets.  U.S. Senate Democratic and Republican leaders said they are
optimistic about ending a partial government shutdown and
preventing the nation from breaching the debt ceiling in three
days. The emerging agreement would suspend the  debt limit 
through Feb. 7, 2014, fund the government through Jan. 15 and
require a House-Senate budget conference by Dec. 15, according
to a Senate source familiar with the talks, who spoke on
condition of anonymity to discuss them.  “It appears as if investors are becoming more comfortable
with the idea that politicians will come to terms,”  Lawrence Creatura , a Rochester, New York-based fund manager at Federated
Investors Inc., which oversees about $364 billion, said by
phone. “What we’re talking about is a matter of time. It used
to be an if, now the question is when. A resolution of this
impasse would be positive for the whole food chain, domestic and
international.”  Options Prices  The benchmark gauge for developing nations has dropped 3.1
percent this year to trade at 10.7 times projected earnings,
compared with the  valuation  of 14 for the MSCI World Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a
measure of options prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, climbed 2 percent to 24.20.  Brazil’s Ibovespa rose for a fourth day as Usiminas
followed metals higher. Hypermarcas SA, a manufacturer of
consumer products including diapers and generic drugs, rallied
to a two-year high after it was rated the equivalent of buy in
new coverage at Credit Suisse Group AG.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  dropped for a second day as the central
bank left its main lending rate unchanged and OAO Magnit
retreated 2.2 percent. The Budapest Stock Exchange Index
declined, while benchmark gauges in  Turkey ,  Poland  and the  Czech
Republic  rose.  Chinese Stocks  China ’s benchmark stock  index  rose to a one-month high as
railway companies surged on speculation they may help build
Thailand’s high-speed train system, offsetting data showing
lower exports and faster inflation.  CSR Corp. (601766)  and  China CNR
Corp. (601299) , the nation’s biggest train makers, jumped by the 10
percent daily limit.  The  yuan  strengthened to a 20-year high after the central
bank set the currency’s reference rate at a record high and as
consumer prices advanced the most in seven months.  Hon Hai Precision, a Taiwanese assembler of iPhones, slid
the most since June 17 after KGI said it cut its estimates for
iPhone 5C shipments in the fourth quarter. TPK Holding Co.,
another Apple supplier, tumbled 7 percent in Taipei.  Indian (SENSEX)  stocks climbed, sending the benchmark index to a
one-month high, as a rally in software makers offset a report
showing faster-than-estimated inflation.  Tata Consultancy
Services Ltd. (TCS) , the country’s top software exporter, rose to a
record, helping a measure of 10 technology stocks advance for
the fourth day. The rupee weakened the most in three weeks.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 319 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in London at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  