-- Energy Future’s Pre-Bankruptcy Talks Continue as Lender Leaves
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-10-14T22:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/energy-future-pre-bankruptcy-talks-continue-as-lender-opts-out.html
Creditors of Energy Future Holdings
Corp., taken private in the biggest leveraged buyout on record,
will keep negotiating on a restructuring plan as at least one
group aims to leave the confidential talks, according to people
with knowledge of the matter.  Lenders including a group of first-lien holders in the
deregulated Texas Competitive unit planned to extend for another
week a non-disclosure agreement that expired yesterday as
creditors seek to reach terms on a bankruptcy filing that may
come this month, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the process is private.  Holders of $1.5 billion of bonds in the regulated Energy
Future Intermediate unit of the former TXU Corp. indicated they
wouldn’t extend their confidentiality contract, which allows
investors to access private information about Energy Future and
their debt positions to facilitate negotiations. The non-public
company information must be disclosed in a regulatory filing
after any group exits.  “It seems like the Energy Future Intermediate unsecureds
are holding out for a lot more,”  Andy DeVries , an analyst at
debt-researcher CreditSights Inc., said in a telephone
interview. “The other guys want a quick in and out so they can
keep all that equity for themselves.”  Creditors are divided over how much of Energy Future’s
$43.6 billion in debt will be extinguished, and how lenders will
carve up ownership of the Texas power company, the people said.
Energy Future is due to make about $270 million in interest
payments Nov. 1 -- cash more senior creditors want the company
to retain by filing for bankruptcy.  Unsuccessful Bet  Texas’s largest electricity provider has struggled to
reduce debt since it was taken over in a $48 billion deal in
2007 led by  KKR & Co. (KKR) , TPG Capital and Goldman Sachs Capital
Partners. The leveraged buyout left Energy Future with more than
$40 billion in debt in an unsuccessful bet natural gas prices
would rise.  Adam McGill, a spokesman at Dallas-based Energy Future,
declined to comment on the status of negotiations.  Texas Competitive’s $1.83 billion of 10.25 percent senior
unsecured notes due November 2015, which pay interest on Nov. 1,
traded at 3.13 cents on the dollar as of Oct. 11, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. Those securities traded as high as 31
cents on Jan. 4.  Bond markets were closed yesterday in the U.S. for the
Columbus Day holiday.  DIP Financing  Energy Future is close to obtaining a debtor-in-possession
loan of more than $3 billion in preparation for bankruptcy,
 Bloomberg News  reported last week, citing people with knowledge
of the situation.  Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp.
and Morgan Stanley are the key lenders vying to provide parts of
the financing. Texas Competitive’s first-lien creditors have
been invited to participate.  The size of the loan, which has fluctuated over the past
few weeks, is now likely to be about $3.5 billion, the people
said. Debtor-in-possession financing is funding arranged by a
company going through the Chapter 11 bankruptcy process, which
typically has priority over existing debt, equity and other
claims. Such a large DIP may help reassure vendors, customers,
trading counterparties and regulators the company can meet its
obligations.  Energy Future said in April that creditors had rejected a
prepackaged bankruptcy plan to restructure $32 billion in debt
held by its competitive power unit. The company said in August
that it “engaged in additional discussions” with a broader
group of lenders and continues to evaluate restructuring options
including filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy for some or all of
the company, excluding power-line unit Oncor Electric Delivery
Co.  Oncor, the regulated and profitable power transmission and
distribution business, is protected from any restructuring,
according to corporate filings and Moody’s Investors Service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  