-- England F.A. Doubles Poland Soccer Tickets on Safety Concern
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-10-14T14:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/england-s-f-a-doubles-poland-soccer-tickets-on-safety-concerns.html
English soccer’s governing body says
it more than doubled  Poland  fans’ ticket allocation for
tomorrow’s World Cup qualifier to prevent them buying seats in
home sections of the London stadium.  Poland’s number of tickets at Wembley was increased to
18,000 from 8,000 because of high demand, the Football Association
said.  England  needs a victory from its final group match to
guarantee a place in  Brazil  next year, while Poland cannot now
qualify.  “With high demand for tickets from the large Polish
community in England, the F.A. took the decision, based on
safety grounds,” F.A. spokesman Scott Field said in an e-mailed
statement.  At 532,000, the Polish community is the second-largest
overseas-born community in the U.K., according to the  Office of
National Statistics .  England coach  Roy Hodgson  said the decision to boost the
number of tickets for away fans could “lift” Poland but that
his players would not be fazed.  “Our players are used to playing in games where there is
support for the opponents,” he said at a televised news
conference. “70,000 fans versus 20,000 is a good margin.”  Former Scotland striker Alan Brazil had criticized the
increase in the Polish ticket allocation as potentially helping
England’s opponents in a vital game.  Bad Memories  “Have they taken into consideration what the players might
feel?” Brazil said on U.K. radio station  Talksport  today.
“Poland can’t qualify so why are we giving this kind of
boost?”  England defender Leighton Baines dismissed such concerns.  “If away fans add to the atmosphere the home fans produce,
it just adds to the occasion,” he told reporters yesterday.
“You’d rather play in a stadium with a good atmosphere, rather
than it be a half-empty stadium.”  Tomorrow’s game has evoked memories of a 1973 match when
England drew 1-1 with Poland at Wembley and failed to reach the
following year’s  World Cup . Poland went on to finish third at
the tournament.  If England doesn’t win tomorrow, it’s likely to face a
playoff round to reach the World Cup. Ukraine, which plays  San
Marino , would probably finish top of the group and qualify
automatically.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried at the London Sports Desk  at  bprie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  