-- Herbalife Director Dunn Predicts ‘Clean’ New Audits
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-10-15T20:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/herbalife-director-dunn-predicts-clean-new-audits.html
Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)  Director Jeff Dunn
said he expects a “clean read” when PricewaterhouseCoopers LP
finishes new audits of the company’s books amid allegations by
hedge fund manager  Bill Ackman  that it’s a pyramid scheme.  The nutrition company hired PricewaterhouseCoopers in May
after its previous accounting firm,  KPMG  LLP, resigned because
of alleged insider trading by an auditor. PricewaterhouseCoopers
is re-auditing statements for 2010 through 2012. In August,
Ackman sent a 52-page letter urging the auditor to pay attention
to “serious accounting and disclosure issues.”  Dunn, who runs Campbell Soup Co.-owned Wm. Bolthouse Farms
Inc. and is a former  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  president, reiterated that
the audits are expected to be completed by the end of December.
He also said he’s open to using excess cash to buy back
Herbalife shares when the audits are finished.  “I have nothing that suggests anything’s going to come out
of the audit,” Dunn said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“We view it as an opportunity because now you have a full,
clean set of eyes coming in and tearing it apart one more
time.”  Herbalife and Ackman didn’t immediately respond to requests
for comment.  Ackman, whose Pershing Square Capital Management LP has
sold short Herbalife shares, has accused the Cayman Islands-based company of swindling unsophisticated consumers with false
get-rich promises using overpriced products. He has urged U.S.
regulators, elected officials and community activists to help
shut it down. Herbalife has repeatedly denied Ackman’s
allegations.  Stock Buybacks  A clean bill of health on the new audits may clear the way
for Herbalife to resume plans to repurchase at least $50 million
of stock per quarter, the company said in July.  “Our stock’s a good buy and if we have excess cash laying
around and we have leverage, that’s a great way to put our money
to work,” Dunn said. “It’s good for the shareholders.”  Herbalife fell 1.2 percent to $63.92 at the close in  New
York . The shares have almost doubled this year.  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Johnson  has the board’s
full support, Dunn said, adding that Ackman hasn’t gotten
traction for his allegations.  “I wouldn’t be on this board if I had any questions about
our legal, ethical, moral stance,” he said. “Notwithstanding
Ackman’s tirades, there is no data to suggest that we’re not in
full compliance.”  Herbalife said April 9 that KPMG notified the company that
its independence had been impaired, giving the firm no option
other than to withdraw its audit reports for 2010, 2011 and
2012. The company said KPMG’s reports for those years fairly
present its financial condition and results of operations.  KPMG fired Scott London, the head of its Los Angeles audit
practice, who was later charged by federal prosecutors with
 insider trading  related to tips passed to a friend about
Herbalife and Skechers USA Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta  at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  