-- Ericsson Declines as Barclays Warns on Earnings: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   K a t a r i n a   G u s t a f s s o n
-- 2013-10-14T09:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/ericsson-declines-as-barclays-warns-on-earnings-stockholm-mover.html
Ericsson AB, the world’s biggest
maker of wireless networks, fell the most in almost three months
in Stockholm trading as Barclays Plc said third-quarter earnings
will probably disappoint and cut its stock rating.  The  shares lost  as much as 2.7 percent to 82.5 kronor, the
steepest intraday decline since July 18. Ericsson lost 2.3
percent to 82.8 kronor as of 10:28 a.m. local time, giving the
Stockholm-based company a market value of 272.5 billion kronor
($42 billion). The stock has gained 27 percent so far this year.  Barclays cut its recommendation on Ericsson shares to
underweight from equal-weight, saying in a note to clients today
that it sees 20 percent downside to its share price estimate of
68 kronor. Ericsson, which plans to publish its third-quarter
earnings report on Oct. 24, will probably report sales of  54.8
billion kronor  and a gross margin of 33.2 percent in the three
months through September, according to the average of analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We do not subscribe to the consensus view of both revenue
growth and gross margin expansion and expect Ericsson to
disappoint on the top line, as the network modernization and 4G
projects pass their peaks,” Barclays said. “Ericsson is facing
difficult comparables in the U.S. and developed Asia and we do
not see improvement in Europe as sufficient to drive growth. We
do, however, expect gross margin to improve.”  The company would face increased competition in most merger
and acquisition scenarios, such as a possible tie-up between
 Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and Alcatel-Lucent SA, Barclays said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarina Gustafsson in Stockholm at 
 kgustafsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  