-- Hermitage’s Browder Wins Dismissal of Russian’s Libel Case
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-10-14T12:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/hermitage-s-browder-wins-dismissal-of-russian-cop-s-libel-case.html
Hermitage Capital Management founder
 William Browder  won the dismissal of a U.K. libel case filed by
a former Russian policeman accused of playing a part in the 2009
death of legal and tax adviser Sergei Magnitsky.  Judge Peregrine Simon ruled that the U.K. wasn’t the right
jurisdiction for the ex-policeman, Pavel Karpov, to file the
lawsuit. The dispute is part of a larger fight over Magnitsky’s
death in prison and duelling accusations of  tax fraud  between
Hermitage and the Russian government.  Hermitage, once  Russia ’s largest portfolio investor, shut
its Russia fund in March as Browder, 49, was sued for libel in
 London  and tried in absentia for tax evasion in Russia. A Moscow
court found Browder and the late Magnitsky guilty of  tax evasion 
in July, sentencing the businessman to nine years in jail.
Browder is in the U.K. and appealing the Russian sentence.  “This is a global case of forum shopping,”  Mark Stephens ,
a lawyer for Browder, told reporters outside court. “Crooks,
brigands and oligarchs have come to London to launder their
reputations,” and today’s ruling “will be a disincentive for
people of that ilk.” Stephens also represents  Bloomberg News 
and other media organizations.  Karpov filed the London suit over a series of videos
accusing him of kidnapping, attempted extortion and killing
Magnitsky.  Unjustified Allegations  Lawyers for Karpov said in a statement that while Judge
Simon dismissed the suit, he ruled that Browder and Hermitage
did “not come close to providing sufficient evidence to support
the unjustified allegations they have made.”  In 2011, a human-rights council under then-President  Dmitry Medvedev  called for officials to be prosecuted for Magnitsky’s
death. The council said he was bludgeoned with rubber batons
after being denied medical care during almost a year of pre-trial detention on trumped-up tax evasion charges.  Russia ended its investigation in March into Magnitsky’s
death, saying it found no sign he’d suffered physical abuse
while he was detained.  Magnitsky was “not a truth-seeker,” Medvedev said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in January. “He was a corporate
lawyer or accountant, and defended the interests of the people
who hired him.”  Diplomatic Intrigue  Magnitsky and Browder are accused of evading 522 million
rubles ($16 million) of taxes, the Russian Prosecutor General’s
Office said in November. Browder has denied any wrongdoing by
either himself or Magnitsky. He successfully lobbied for U.S.
legislation targeting 60 Russian officials he says are
responsible for Magnitsky’s death with visa bans and asset
freezes.  The case sparked a diplomatic row, with the U.S. and U.K.
imposing sanctions on Russian officials accused of playing a
role in Magnitsky’s death and Moscow retaliating by creating its
own list of banned human-rights violators, including people the
Foreign Ministry accused of torture at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Russia followed with a ban on adoptions by American citizens.  Browder accuses a Russian-run criminal organization of
conspiring to take control of Hermitage subsidiaries and having
done that gave themselves a $230 million  tax refund  unlawfully,
Judge Simon said.  The case is Pavel Karpov v William Browder & Ors in the
U.K.  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division Case No.
HQ12D03133  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  