-- Let’s Give Out Our Own Nobel Prize
-- B y   F o u a d   A j a m i
-- 2013-10-14T23:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/let-s-give-out-our-own-nobel-prize.html
The picture on the front page of
Saturday’s  New York  Times was worth a thousand words. Young
Pakistani girls, one of them clutching a notebook, were awaiting
the news from Oslo.  Their heroine, Malala Yousafzai, was in the running for the
Nobel Peace Prize. They were to be disappointed. The
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons was given
the honor.  True to form, the committee awarding the prize was back at
it, supremely political in the picks it makes. There had been
the anti-Bush awards -- Jimmy Carter, Al Gore and Mohamed ElBaradei and the International Atomic Energy Agency he  presided 
over.  And in 2009 came the baffling choice of President  Barack Obama . He hadn’t even had time to unpack his luggage at the
White House; he hadn’t brokered peace deals or ended wars. But
the folks in Oslo were keen to make a splash.  On the face of it, the choice of the chemical weapons
watchdog  seems  perfectly benign. After all, the 2012 award had
been given to the European Union. But the  Nobel Committee  has
its sly ways. This year, the award went to an organization whose
inspectors have been dispatched to  Syria  to find and destroy
chemical weapons. As with Obama, the prize was given before the
mission had borne fruit.  There is no guarantee of success in Syria. If the history
of rogue regimes with deadly weapons is a guide, then the Bashar al-Assad regime can be counted on to play cat and mouse with the
inspectors, to play for time as Syria’s rulers pose as partners
in the disarmament effort. The hunt for chemical weapons was a
way of forestalling a U.S. attack on a dictatorship that had
broken all the codes of war.  Lost Opportunity  What girls in the Muslim world thought and hoped for was of
no concern to the selection committee, which knew what it was
doing. But let us -- in the fashion of The Tablet magazine,
which, unimpressed with the selection of Alice Munro for the
Nobel in literature, “gave” the award instead to Philip Roth --
announce that Malala won.  The news release would have been stirring. It would have
celebrated the recipient’s age -- Malala is 16; the average age
of the winners had been 62. It would have hailed the
schoolgirl’s courage and resilience. It was only a year ago that
a would-be assassin boarded Malala’s school bus in the Swat
Valley in  Pakistan  and shot her point blank in the head. The
shooter had asked for her by name. She had given an amazing
answer: “I am Malala.” (This would become the title of her
memoir.)  Tranquil, wealthy Oslo would have done a  world of good  for
modern Islam, because Malala had come to embody the cause of
freedom for young Muslim girls. Upon reaching puberty, girls
throughout the Muslim world enter into a kind of bondage. What
freedom they knew is taken away. They become temptresses, the
enforcers of misogyny maintain, and social virtue demands their
seclusion.  The Taliban on both sides of the Afghan-Pakistan border are
a breed apart in their fierce oppression of women. Their world
view, it seems, rests on keeping women separate and under lock
and key.  As her biography has it, Malala, the daughter of an
enlightened educator, ran afoul of the Taliban by speaking out
in favor of the education of girls. At 11, she kept a diary for
the  BBC  about her hopes and daily routine. She was articulate,
and foreign reporters and dignitaries were drawn to her. The
assailant who boarded her school bus had been dispatched to
serve a warrant on the very idea of modernism.  Malala would not be silenced. She was taken to a British
military hospital in Birmingham and she recovered. Last July she
turned up at the United Nations, delivering a speech with
startling composure.  UN Speech  “So here I stand, one girl among many,” she said. By then,
she knew she had become the  standard-bearer  in the fight against
the afflictions that torment Islam. She didn’t want to be herded
into an early marriage; she didn’t want to be silenced. She
sought the company of books and the joys of learning.  There is something odd about the place of women in the
Islamic world  today . Things were a good deal better for them in
the early and middle years of the last century. This repression,
this phobia, has come with the rise to power of the Islamists --
half-educated men who take the faith literally and employ the
techniques of modernity in their war against it.  The tale repeats from one Muslim country to the other: the
journey toward modernity broken in the 1980s. Religious bigots
rose, mainly in the crowded cities, newly urbanized men who
weaponized the faith and bent it to their needs.  Malala’s birthplace, Pakistan, was once freer than it is
today. The first three decades of its national life (1947 to the
late 1970s) were dominated by a secular culture. The nation’s
founder,  Muhammad Ali Jinnah , had meant Pakistan to be a state
for the Muslims but not an Islamic state -- a crucial
distinction. A stern soldier, Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq, seized power
and imposed a stultifying mix of despotism and religious
conformity.  Malala matters. Onto her, untold millions can project their
hopes for a dignified life within the faith. If Islamic
modernity is to have a chance, Malala should be embraced by
Muslims from  Morocco  to  Indonesia . In her modesty and dignity,
she should be Islam’s beloved daughter, her journey a return to
the early promise of Muslim modernism.  (Fouad Ajami is a senior fellow at Stanford University’s
Hoover Institution and the author of “The Syrian Rebellion.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Fouad Ajami at  mjring@stanford.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 