-- Letta Mixes Tax Cut With Rigor in Post-Berlusconi Italy
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-10-15T08:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/letta-mixes-tax-cut-with-rigor-in-post-berlusconi-italian-budget.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta
is evaluating austerity measures to pay for a promised payroll- tax cut  in the 2014 budget, his first major piece of legislation
since marginalizing his ally,  Silvio Berlusconi .  Letta’s cabinet may discuss  reductions  to health-care
spending, curbs to increases in the richest pensions and a boost
to capital gains-tax rates when it meets today in  Rome  to
approve the budget, according to a draft of the plan obtained by
 Bloomberg News . The budget must then be passed by parliament.  Letta, 47, may have more sway reshaping Italy’s accounts
after gaining the upper hand this month on Berlusconi, the
billionaire former premier and member of the ruling coalition.
The two leaders tussled in the first five months of their
partnership, with Letta pushing for budget rigor and measures to
stimulate hiring, while Berlusconi insisted on property tax cuts
and relief from his criminal convictions.  “There is a genuine change here,”  Raffaella Tenconi , an
economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  London , said in an
e-mail. “Less focus on Berlusconi’s specific justice issues
frees up resources to focus on the budget and ignite new reform
momentum.”  Italian 10-year bond yields rose 2 basis point to 4.27
percent at 10:28 a.m. in Rome. The yields have declined about 15
basis points since Oct. 1, the day before Letta undermined
Berlusconi in a parliamentary showdown.  Capital Gains  The  capital-gains  tax could rise to 22 percent from 20
percent for some assets, according to the draft. State financing
for the health-care program will be reduced by 500 million euros
($678 million) next year and 1 billion euros in 2015, according
to the draft. Automatic increases to pension benefits will be
cut in half for retirees who get five times the minimum stipend.  A spokesman for Letta declined to comment on the contents
of the draft. The  Finance Ministry  said in a statement late
yesterday that drafts “in circulation” didn’t match the
document that would be presented today. The ministry didn’t give
specifics.  The payroll-tax reduction may amount to 5 billion euros or
more, Ansa newswire reported yesterday, citing a target given by
Industry Minister Flavio Zanonato. That won’t be enough,
according to Italian employers lobby Confindustria, whose
chairman, Giorgio Squinzi, called for a cut of at least 10
billion euros.  “They won’t be able to muster more than 4 or 5 billion,”
said Federico Santi, an analyst with Eurasia Group. “The
government will still be constrained by the fiscal side and have
limited resources to spend on stimulus.”  Curbs Influence  Italy , where unemployment returned to a  record  of 12.2
percent in August, has labor taxes among the highest in the
European Union, statistics office Eurostat  said  in a June
report. The country had a 42.3 percent implicit tax rate on
labor in 2011, Eurostat said. That’s second only to  Belgium ’s
42.8 percent in the 28-country bloc.  Letta curbed Berlusconi’s influence by winning a confidence
vote in parliament on Oct. 2. The 77-year-old Berlusconi,
seeking to topple the government, was deserted by senior
lawmakers in his own party, who gave their support to Letta.  Berlusconi is facing expulsion proceedings in the Senate
because his tax-fraud conviction runs afoul of a 2012 anti-corruption law. He is appealing separate convictions for illegal
use of wiretaps, abuse of power and paying a minor for sex.
Berlusconi has denied all wrongdoing, saying the trials amount
to political persecution.  Letta’s  Democratic Party , the biggest force in parliament,
needs Berlusconi’s People of Liberty and former Prime Minister
 Mario Monti ’s Civic Choice for a majority in both chambers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  