-- EU Nations Agree To Seek Softer Law to Curb Car Emissions
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-10-14T18:47:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/eu-nations-agree-to-seek-softer-law-to-curb-car-emissions.html
European Union governments agreed
today to seek a revision of a draft law to curb emissions from
cars, bowing to calls from  Germany  for more flexibility to
protect the competitiveness of the domestic automobile industry.  EU environment ministers meeting in  Luxembourg  authorized
 Lithuania  to start talks with the European Parliament to change
a preliminary deal on the measure, which was blocked by German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in June. The proposal would cap average
carbon discharges by passenger vehicles in the bloc at 95 grams
a kilometer in 2020 through varying targets for individual
manufacturers ranging from  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  to  General Motors Co. (GM)   “The flexibility margin has to be narrow,” Valentinas
Mazuronis, the environment minister of Lithuania, which holds
the EU rotating presidency, said. “Results have to be achieved
as soon as possible.”  The decision was made after Germany built a coalition of
countries supporting its plan to delay the start of the emission
curbs. It proposed the law should be fully applicable to all new
cars only in 2024, according to a document submitted by the
government before the quarterly ministerial meeting and obtained
by  Bloomberg News .  “It was made clear from all sides that we want an
ambitious climate-protection goal and, at the same time, it was
made clear that in some places more flexibility must be sought
and can be found,” German Environment Minister Peter Altmaier
told reporters after the meeting. “In this narrow room for
maneuver, we will find a solution in the coming weeks.”  Backing Germany  Countries including the U.K. and  Poland  supported the
German call for a revision of the draft. Ministers from nations
such as Belgium, France and  Italy  said they backed the
preliminary deal reached in June between EU governments and the
European Parliament. To be enacted, the draft law would need
approval from both member states and the bloc’s assembly.  To determine each manufacturer’s average emissions, 80
percent of its new cars should be taken into account in 2020, 90
percent in 2022 and 95 percent in 2023, under the German plan.
The proposed phase-in is not a “limited” change to the June
compromise, EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said.  The EU is trying to reconcile its ambitions to lead the
global fight against  climate change  with efforts to help the
region’s economy recover from a recession. Current EU rules
require carmakers to cut discharges to 130 grams a kilometer on
average in 2015 and set a non-binding goal of 95 grams for 2020.  Emissions Trading  At today’s meeting some nations also raised the issue of a
draft rescue plan for the EU emissions trading market, Mazuronis
said. Governments are considering a measure to delay sales of
some carbon permits after emission prices slumped to an all-time
low of 2.46 euros a metric ton amid a record glut of allowances.  “I’m optimistic we will solve this issue in the near
future,” Mazuronis told reporters after the gathering.  Hedegaard said she saw “encouraging signs” on the
emergency fix, known as backloading. She also said the European
Commission, the bloc’s regulator, will present a proposal in the
“not too distant future” on airlines in the bloc’s carbon
market in response to a pledge by the  United Nations ’ aviation
agency to start work on a road map to a global deal on an
emissions market for aviation.  Ministers also reached a deal on the EU position for the
UN’s climate talks in Warsaw next month. It includes a call on
countries worldwide to agree at the summit in Poland to a
process to formulate emission targets for a 2015 global deal,
including a timetable on their commitments in 2014.  “We agreed on a mandate that is united and strong,”
Polish Environment Minister Marcin Korolec told journalists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  