-- EU on Cusp of Approving ECB Oversight Plan as U.K. Deal Emerges
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-10-14T14:40:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/eu-on-cusp-of-approving-ecb-oversight-plan-as-u-k-deal-emerges.html
The U.K. reached a draft deal with
its European Union partners to lift its objections to turning
the European Central Bank into a supervisor, according to two EU
officials, in a move that paves the way for the end of over a
year of negotiations on the proposals.  Ambassadors for the EU’s 28 nations agreed today to put
final adoption of the law on the agenda of tomorrow’s meeting of
finance ministers in  Luxembourg , according to the officials, who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the decision isn’t
public. Once that takes place, the legislation can be published
by the EU, beginning a 12-month countdown for the ECB to fully
take on its new role.  European Central Bank Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen
said he’s “very, very confident” that EU finance ministers
will sign off on the bill tomorrow.  “We are making slow but steady progress on all elements of
the banking union, and if we have a sound legal base created
tomorrow we really can speed up preparations, can hire people,
can hire buildings, so this is really good news on the banking
union,” Asmussen told reporters in Luxembourg before a meeting
of euro-area finance ministers today.  Britain blocked approval of the law last month on concerns
that safeguards to prevent the U.K. from being marginalized in
meetings of the European Banking Authority could be unwound. The
U.K. lifted its reservations today after receiving support for a
declaration stating that voting rules agreed on for the EBA will
be respected, a U.K. official confirmed.  Banks and Sovereigns  EU leaders said last year that the ECB should be given
oversight powers over euro-area lenders as a first step in
building a banking union that would break the links between
banks and sovereigns, and so boost confidence in the bloc’s
financial system. Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial-services
chief, had called for the plans to be legally adopted by the end
of 2012.  The decision to send the draft law to finance ministers,
with the intention that it be approved without further
negotiation, is a sign that the U.K. issue is close to being
resolved, the officials said.  Britain has said that it will not sign up its banks for ECB
oversight, which is optional for nations outside the euro zone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  