-- EU Weighs ESM Role in Bridge Financing to Manage Failing Banks
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-10-14T13:42:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/eu-weighs-esm-role-in-bridge-financing-to-manage-failing-banks.html
European Union finance ministers
should decide if the euro area’s firewall fund could provide
bridge financing for handling failing banks, according to a
document prepared for finance ministers’ meetings in Luxembourg.  The European Stability Mechanism could offer guarantees or
a loan to cover upfront costs of stabilizing a failing bank,
according to the Oct. 10 paper, prepared by  Lithuania , which
holds the EU’s rotating presidency, and obtained by  Bloomberg
News . Any costs would be recouped over time from the banking
sector. Depending on how talks proceed, the ESM’s treaties might
need to be changed, according to the document.  Ministers should first consider whether they want to make
permanent or temporary bridge financing available to nations or
an EU-level fund that would be built up over time, according to
the document. The EU should then consider whether the ESM could
provide funding directly to bank resolution funds, and if so how
to design a special purpose vehicle or other mechanism.  While designing a system to handle failing banks inside the
 euro zone , where the  European Central Bank  will take over bank
supervision next year, EU ministers also should consider whether
to make “fully comparable” support mechanisms for nations
outside the currency bloc.  “If so, should possibilities/conditions be explored to
extend euro-area support mechanisms to non-euro area SSM/SRM
participants provided they contribute in due proportion to the
financing of these arrangements?” the document states. It says
talks continue on a European Commission proposal to add a bank
recapitalization tool to the EU’s balance-of-payments fund,
which has been used previously to provide aid to Latvia, Hungary
and Romania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Luxembourg at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  