-- European Stocks Fluctuate as U.S. Debt Talks Continue
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-10-14T09:58:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/european-stock-futures-drop-on-u-s-debt-talks-stalemate.html
European stocks  fluctuated between
gains and losses as investors awaited developments in talks on
raising the U.S. debt limit and restoring government operations.
U.S. index futures and Asian shares declined.  Dassault Systemes SA, a French maker of design software,
sank the most in two years as revenue missed its forecasts.
Konecranes Oyj slid 4.9 percent as the Finnish maker of lifting
equipment cut its outlook. PSA  Peugeot (UG)  Citroen tumbled the most
in four years on a report it plans to sell new shares.
Electricite de France SA rose 2.3 percent as the U.K. said it’s
close to announcing a deal to build a nuclear power plant.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slipped less than 0.1 percent to
311.44 at 10:57 a.m. in  London . The gauge has advanced 0.3
percent in October even as U.S. lawmakers failed to agree on a
budget, forcing the first partial government shutdown in 17
years. The world’s biggest economy will exhaust its borrowing
authority on Thursday without action by Congress to raise the
debt limit.  “Everyone expects the issue to be solved at the 11th hour,
but no one knows when the 11th hour will be,” Witold Bahrke,
who helps oversee $55 billion as a senior strategist at PFA
Asset Management in Copenhagen, said by phone. “We are seeing a
dysfunctional U.S. government, which is creating uncertainty.”  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures dropped 0.7 percent
today and the MSCI Asia Pacific excluding  Japan  Index retreated
0.2 percent. Equity markets in Japan and  Hong Kong  are closed
for holidays. U.S. bond markets are shut for Columbus Day, while
the stock market is open.  Debt Talks  U.S. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said yesterday that
he had a “productive conversation” with Minority Leader  Mitch
McConnell  without reaching a conclusion on a plan to send to the
chamber for a vote. Senate Republicans have blocked a Democratic
plan to push the next debt-limit fight into 2015 and  Senate
Democrats  rejected a proposal from Republican Senator  Susan
Collins  of  Maine .  Collins’s group of moderate senators trying to frame a deal
will probably meet again today, said a Senate Democratic aide
with knowledge of the negotiations. The  House of Representatives 
plans to reconvene at noon in Washington, with the Senate
meeting from 2 p.m.  “Market participants last week had the expectation that we
will see an agreement over the weekend,” Soeren Steinert, who
helps manage about $24 billion as associate director for
equities trading at Quoniam Asset Management GmbH in  Frankfurt ,
said by telephone. “That failed to happen, which leads to
uncertainty and pressure on stock prices.”  Chinese Exports  China ’s  exports  unexpectedly fell in September. Overseas
shipments dropped 0.3 percent from a year earlier, the General
Administration of Customs said in Beijing on Oct. 12, trailing
all 46 estimates in a Bloomberg survey that had a median
projection for a 5.5 percent gain. The slowdown resulted from a
high basis of comparison with last year, the agency said.  The Stoxx 600 has rallied 11 percent in 2013 as the euro
area emerged from a recession and central banks maintained
stimulus measures to support the global economy.  The volume of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600 companies
today was 23 percent less than the 30-day average, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The VStoxx Index, a gauge of
volatility implied by the options market, climbed 7.7 percent to
19.67.  Dassault declined 6.1 percent to 90.55 euros, the largest
slide since August 2011. Revenue in the third quarter, excluding
currency effects, rose 4 percent, falling short of targeted
growth of 8 percent to 9 percent, according to a company
statement.  Konecranes Sinks  Konecranes lost 4.9 percent to 23.13 euros in Helsinki as
the company forecast that 2013 sales will be “slightly lower”
than last year.  Peugeot plunged 10 percent to 11.08 euros, the biggest
decline since April 2009. The carmaker is preparing to sell 3
billion euros ($4.1 billion) of new stock, with China’s Dongfeng
Motor Corp. and the French government buying matching stakes in
Europe’s second-biggest carmaker, Reuters reported, citing three
unidentified people.  Ericsson AB, the largest maker of wireless-network
equipment, retreated 2.3 percent to 82.80 kronor. Barclays Plc
downgraded the shares to underweight, similar to a sell
recommendation, from equal weight, saying third-quarter earnings
may disappoint.  EDF Climbs  EDF (EDF)  advanced 2.3 percent to 25.07 euros as Energy Secretary
 Ed Davey  said the U.K. is “extremely close” to announcing a
deal with Europe’s biggest power generator to build Britain’s
first nuclear power station since 1995. The agreement may be
announced as soon as this week after two or three remaining
issues are resolved, said a U.K. government official briefed on
the talks.  Johnson Matthey, the U.K. platinum refiner and producer of
autocatalysts, climbed 4.3 percent to 2,941 pence in London as
JPMorgan Chase & Co. upgraded the shares to overweight, similar
to a buy rating.  “Johnson Matthey is at an inflection point,” Martin Evans, an analyst at JPMorgan, wrote in a report. “We expect
years of investment in the industrial catalyst market to lead to
accelerated growth, benefiting from the swathe of new customer
capex driven by Chinese petrochemical self-sustainability and
the U.S. shale-gas revolution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  