-- Euro-Area Industrial Production Increases More Than Forecast
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2013-10-14T09:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/euro-area-industrial-production-increases-more-than-forecast.html
Euro-area industrial output expanded
more than economists forecast in August as the currency bloc’s
recovery gained momentum.  Factory production  in the 17-nation region rose 1 percent
from July, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said today. That exceeded the 0.8 percent median forecast in a
 Bloomberg News survey  of 38 economists. The decline in July was
revised to 1 percent from 1.5 percent.  Encouraging indicators have begun to accumulate since the
euro area  returned to growth  in the second quarter, ending a
record-long recession. Factory output expanded for a third month
in September, according to Markit Economics, and executive and
 consumer confidence  has improved.  The euro remained higher against the dollar after the data
were released. It was at $1.3554 as of 10:20 a.m. London time,
up 0.1 percent from Oct. 11.  The “gradual recovery” seen by the  European Central Bank 
has boosted equities, with the Stoxx Europe 600 Index up about 5
percent in the last three months. Europe continues to struggle
with the legacy of the debt crisis now in its fourth year,
including an  unemployment rate  of 12 percent.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on Oct. 2 that the ECB will
keep key  interest rates  “at present or lower levels for an
extended period,” based in part on the “broad-based weakness
in the economy.” Economists in a separate Bloomberg survey see
economic growth slowing to 0.2 percent in the third quarter
after a 0.3 percent expansion in the three months through June.  From a year earlier, industrial output fell 2.1 percent in
August, according to today’s report.  German Growth  “The  industrial production  figures are unlikely to alter
the ECB’s accommodative stance in the coming months as the
recovery remains fragile,” Annalisa Piazza, an analyst at
Newedge Group in London, said before the data were released.  Industrial output in Germany, Europe’s largest economy,
rose 1.8 percent in August from July, today’s report showed.
 Duerr AG (DUE) , which makes painting plants for the automobile
industry, last month boosted its 2013 margin guidance for
earnings before interest and taxes by half a point to 7.5
percent to 8 percent. Duerr, based in Bietigheim-Bissingen, sees
sales growth in the second half.  In France, production increased 0.2 percent from July,
Spain rose 0.1 percent and Italy fell 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  