-- EU Grapples With Bank-Test Backstops Amid German Delays
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e ,   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-10-15T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/euro-ministers-keep-year-end-deadline-for-bank-failure-agreement.html
European Union finance ministers
grappled with how to protect the credibility of next year’s bank
reviews as the countdown began for the  European Central Bank  to
assume oversight over euro-area lenders.  During talks in  Luxembourg  yesterday, a rift emerged
between proponents of enhanced backstops to cover any capital
shortfalls that may be uncovered by the ECB-led bank assessments
and those who maintain that existing options will suffice.  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem touted Spain-style indirect recapitalization from the euro-area firewall fund
and direct aid to banks in “exceptional circumstances” as
credible backstops.  Germany ’s Wolfgang Schaeuble countered that
direct bank aid from the European Stability Mechanism would
require changes to German law.  Dijsselbloem “doesn’t need to be happy about it, I don’t
demand that from him, but it helps if everyone takes notice of
it,” Schaeuble told reporters of the legal issue. “It is how
it is, the ESM decides unanimously, and the German rule under
German law states that the law has to be changed. And for that,
one will have to do a lot of work convincing certain people in
Berlin.”  The debate over backstops has direct implications for the
success of the ECB’s assessments of the banks it will begin to
supervise as soon as November 2014, and of stress tests
coordinated by the European Banking Authority. Ministers
yesterday gave final approval to the ECB oversight law, which
enters into force when it’s published in the EU’s Official
Journal.  Stress Tests  ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said before the
talks that “we need discussions” on how to cover any large
capital shortfalls at big banks. He didn’t address the issue in
comments made as he departed.  “It is important that we are get a very credible asset
quality review and also credible stress tests, so therefore it
is essential that euro countries can set up a backstop,”
Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said after the meeting. “I
think it is essential that ECB provides liquidity during this
period. A long-term repo facility or something else is necessary
to keep liquidity in the system.”  Germany’s legal requirements mean the ESM isn’t now
available for Ireland’s bank debt, Schaeuble said, even though
EU ministers previously said direct aid could be available after
a case-specific review.  Credit Line  “The retroactive bank recapitalization is especially
improbable for the time being,” Schaeuble said. He also
signaled that a follow-on  credit line  was off the table. “I
don’t see that Ireland is asking for any additional ESM program
and I don’t see any necessity for this.”  EU leaders last year sought to empower the ESM to lend
directly to banks in a bid to break the link between sovereign
debt and financial-industry struggles. While the direct-aid tool
remains in development, leaders now are emphasizing national
responsibility for stabilizing banks that need help.  Countries whose banks will fall under ECB supervision next
year should establish “a comprehensive European approach
notably comprising national backstops,” according to draft
conclusions for an Oct. 24-25 leaders’ summit obtained by
 Bloomberg News . The draft calls for nations to “develop as a
matter of urgency such a comprehensive and coordinated approach
to be communicated before the end of the year.”  Firewall Fund  The ECB has pushed national governments to have money ready
when the results of the bank reviews come out next year, if
banks can’t raise private capital to cover any shortfalls
detected. Benoit Coeure, another ECB Executive Board member,
said this week that the ESM should be ready if states need
assistance. Under current protocols, this requires governments
to apply for aid in exchange for policy conditions, as  Spain  has
done.  Ministers reiterated their goal of creating a centralized
system for handling crisis-hit euro-area banks by Jan. 1, 2015.
Schaeuble renewed Germany’s opposition to moving ahead with a
Single Resolution Mechanism, proposed by EU financial-services
chief  Michel Barnier , that includes a central fund, while also
pressing for quick agreement on a policy that works with current
rules.  “We’re still in a brainstorming phase,” said Italian
Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni. “It’s essential that this
project go forward because there’s a lot of international
attention on what is being done in  Europe , and reaching a full
banking union will help orient  market sentiment .”  Schaeuble cautioned that talks will continue, because
Barnier’s proposal “has no majority” among the 28 EU states.
“We’ll have to find solutions within the current treaties,” he
said. “I hope that everyone is prepared to reach a solution as
soon as possible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Luxembourg at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Luxembourg at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Luxembourg at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  