-- For Obama and Boehner, Weakness Is Strength
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-10-14T21:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/for-obama-and-boehner-weakness-is-strength.html
In a negotiation, you might well
have more power if you are powerless. Strength can be weakness,
and weakness can be strength. Since 2011, these principles have
been playing a significant role in conflicts between President
 Barack Obama  and the  House of Representatives .  To see the general point, suppose that you are a
malpractice lawyer, representing a patient in a suit against a
doctor. Your client believes that the doctor made a big mistake.
He is very angry. He knows a trial wouldn’t be a lot of fun, but
he likes the idea of seeing his doctor squirm on the witness
stand. He is also willing to settle, but the settlement has to
be on precisely his terms, which would give him a lot of money.  Your client’s position means that once you begin to
negotiate, your hands will be tied. You won’t be able to
compromise. That puts you in an excellent position. Your client
is willing to endure a trial, which the doctor might well see as
a worst-case scenario and perhaps even as intolerable. Under
reasonable assumptions, you should be able to obtain a generous
settlement.  The situation is different, and much worse, if your client
tells you that he wants to avoid a trial, and if he gives you
the power to take any reasonable deal. If you are so instructed,
you can’t hide behind your client and insist that the only
acceptable agreement is on his preferred terms. In fact, you
might want your client to tie your hands, because that
strengthens your position.  Now turn to the current fiscal  standoff . For many
Republicans and many Democrats, including the president,
defaulting on the national debt is a worst-case scenario. For
the participants, a central question is this: What exactly does
the other side have the power to do?  Intransigence Effect  Thomas Schelling, the recipient of the 2005 Nobel Memorial
Prize in Economic Sciences, wrote the book on this topic.
Speaking of those who represent workers in a labor-management
dispute, Schelling drew attention to the strategic benefits of
powerlessness on the part of labor’s representatives.  If the workers are themselves intransigent, their
representatives may be able to obtain an excellent deal
“because they no longer control the members or because they
would lose their own positions if they tried.”  Schelling’s account uncannily presages the current
situation in the House of Representatives. Many people believe
that House Speaker  John Boehner  can’t control House Republicans
and that if he makes certain compromises with Democrats and the
president, he will jeopardize his position as speaker. In an
important respect, this perception has greatly increased his
authority. When House members tie his hands, they strengthen his
hand.  Obama can also benefit from a degree of powerlessness. Some
legal  scholars  contend that under the 14th Amendment, the
president has the power to ensure that national debts are paid,
even if Congress doesn’t raise the debt limit. If they are
right, his bargaining authority is weakened.  The president has been claiming that without legislative
action, the nation will inevitably suffer the terrible fiscal
consequences of a  default . If he can prevent those consequences
on his own, that claim is weakened, and his bargaining position
is undermined.  Obama has also found it important to say publicly, and on
numerous occasions, that he won’t engage in negotiations with
Congress until the debt limit is  raised . Such statements don’t
tie his hands, but they have a similar function, because it
would not be so easy for him to backtrack.  In standard negotiation theory, there can be a significant
bargaining advantage for the person whose hands are tied. But
what if both sides end up lacking the ability to compromise?
That’s a big problem.  Strategic Risks  As Schelling notes, such situations are dangerous, because
they create “a risk of establishing an immovable position that
goes beyond the ability of the other to concede,” thus
provoking “the likelihood of stalemate or breakdown.”  Many malpractice cases do go to trial, even though it would
be in the interest in both plaintiffs and defendants to settle.
In a bargaining situation, powerlessness can be powerful, but it
can also produce worst-case scenarios.  In previous negotiations, Boehner’s apparent powerlessness
over  House Republicans  seems to have given him a strategic
advantage. But in the coming weeks, the nation’s  fiscal future 
may well require him to find a way to assert a measure of
control over his flock.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University professor
at  Harvard Law School , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 