-- France to Debate Extension for EDF in Amortizing Atomic Reactors
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-10-14T17:22:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/france-to-debate-extension-for-edf-in-amortizing-atomic-reactors.html
The French government is considering
a possible extension of the period that  Electricite de France SA 
is able to amortize its nuclear reactors in preparing corporate
accounts, according to Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici .  The minister, on France Inter radio today, denied a  Journal
du Dimanche  report that a decision had been made to lengthen the
period to 50 years from 40 years. “Debate will take place that
will be based on technical considerations,” Moscovici said.  EDF spokeswoman  Carole Trivi  declined to comment.  A change, allowing EDF to reduce provisions for dismantling
installations, was mooted by Environment Minister Philippe Martin last month as a way for nuclear power to contribute to
developing renewables. The extension would add value to the
biggest nuclear operator by improving its earnings and cutting
debt, according to Louis Boujard, an analyst at Banco BPI SA.  EDF rose 2.2 percent to 25.05 euros by the close in Paris.  “The impact of a lifespan extension would be positive on
recurring earnings potential of EDF and would trigger a further
deleveraging of the company,” Boujard said in a note. Extending
to 51 years would add 5 euros a share to the company, he said.  The valuation would increase by 13.8 euros a share with an
extension to 50 years, Martin Young, an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets , said in a report last month, though that effect would
be lowered by “benefit sharing” with the state or customers.  Increasing Renewables  “The nuclear activity of EDF through amortizations that
are already over long periods will provide sums that could be
used by the state as shareholder,” Minister Martin said. Funds
may help boost French energy efficiency and renewables, he said.  The  Commission de Regulation de l’Energie  regulator said in
a study in June that extending amortization would have “large
and lasting consequences” for electricity production costs as
well as a one-time financial advantage for the utility.  Amortization was pushed to 40 years from 30 years in 2003.
An extension to 50 years would allow EDF to cut provisions, the
regulator said. It may also curb state-set tariff increases.  While EDF is seeking to operate its French reactors for 60
years, the regulatory system doesn’t allow for the government to
simply extend the operating lives.  Autorite de Surete Nucleaire ,
the atomic regulator, carries out in-depth inspections on each
reactor every 10 years, granting permission on a case-by-case
basis depending on its findings. The regulator is also able to
order the shutdown of a reactor on safety considerations.  “We are a long way from making a decision” on extending
beyond 40 years, Pierre-Franck Chevet, head of the ASN, told
parliament in April. “We are at the very beginning.”  EDF must improve safety including ensuring spent fuel
storage and reactor vessels are secure before it gets approval
to operate plants beyond 40 years, ASN said in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  