-- Germany Wants Softer Car-CO2 Law as Ministers Seek Deal
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-10-14T12:43:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/germany-wants-softer-car-co2-law-as-ministers-seek-deal.html
Germany ’s environment minister,
 Peter Altmaier , said the European Union must be flexible in
implementing rules to curb emissions from cars that  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  blocked earlier this year.  “It’s about finding enough flexibility, and we’re in talks
about that,” Altmaier told reporters before a meeting of his EU
counterparts in  Luxembourg  today. “I’m convinced we can find a
result; we can find it within the next weeks, and we will talk
about that today.”  The measure was put on the agenda of a quarterly meeting of
environment ministers in Luxembourg today after Germany, which
wants to delay the introduction of carbon curbs to defend jobs,
built a coalition against a preliminary deal on the law. The
proposal would cap average carbon discharges by passenger
vehicles in the bloc at 95 grams a kilometer in 2020 through
varying targets for individual manufacturers ranging from
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  to  General Motors Co. (GM)   Germany wants to introduce a gradual phase-in of the
proposed emission curbs, according to an EU document obtained by
 Bloomberg News . It wants the law to be fully applicable to all
new cars only in 2024, according to the document, which was
submitted by Germany in negotiations about the draft legislation
before the ministerial meeting.  The EU is trying to reconcile its ambitions to lead the
global fight against  climate change  with efforts to help the
region’s economy recover from a recession. Current EU rules
require carmakers to cut discharges to 130 grams a kilometer on
average in 2015 and set a non-binding goal of 95 grams for 2020.  New Cars  To determine each manufacturer’s average specific
emissions, 80 percent of its new cars should be taken into
account in 2020, rising to 90 percent in 2022 and 95 percent in
2023, under the German proposal.  Governments are unlikely to vote on the draft law today,
according to two EU officials with knowledge of the talks. The
original version is still short of a qualified majority and
ministers will probably discuss procedures that could be used to
facilitate a compromise in the coming weeks, the officials said.
That could include authorization for further talks with the
European Parliament, whose approval is also needed for the draft
law to be adopted, they said.  “It’s not about deciding a few days earlier or later, it’s
about finding an agreement that’s backed by a broad majority of
member states,” Altmaier said. “An agreement that on the one
hand advances environmental protection and on the other hand
respects also the interests of the European industry compared to
competitors abroad.”  Ministers are also set to discuss the EU position for
 United Nations ’ climate talks at the meeting today and receive
information from the European Commission on the  International
Civil Aviation Organization ’s decision on a global carbon
market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  