-- German Stocks Drop as U.S. Lawmakers Prolong Debt Impasse
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-10-14T08:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/german-stocks-drop-as-u-s-lawmakers-prolong-debt-impasse.html
German stocks  declined from a record
as U.S. politicians remained divided over an agreement to raise
the debt limit before a deadline on Thursday to avoid a default.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  slipped 2.3 percent after Bank of
America Corp. lowered its recommendation on the chipmaker.  SAP
AG (SAP)  lost 1.2 percent after software maker Dassault Systemes SA
posted worse-than-forecast revenue. EON SE and  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s
biggest utilities, climbed after a report that they have asked
political parties to reduce a tax on nuclear fuel.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  fell 0.3 percent to 8,701.72 at 10:33 a.m. in
Frankfurt. The equity benchmark jumped 2.4 percent in the past
two trading days to a record amid optimism over U.S. debt talks.
The broader HDAX Index retreated 0.2 percent today.  In the U.S., Democrats and Republicans held talks over the
weekend without reaching an agreement to resolve a fiscal
impasse three days before the government exhausts its borrowing
authority. If that happens, the U.S. would run out of cash to
pay all of its bills at some point between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31,
according to the Congressional Budget Office. The stalemate also
prolongs a federal government shutdown that began on Oct. 1.  Democrat and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  held
inconclusive talks with Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell 
yesterday. Senators plan to reconvene at 2 p.m. in Washington
today, and the Republican-controlled House of Representatives at
noon, with no votes until 6.30 p.m. local time.  “The discussions were substantive and we’ll continue those
discussions,” Reid said on the Senate floor, before leaders
concluded almost four hours of debate without a deal.  In China, a report on Oct. 12 showed that  exports 
unexpectedly contracted in September, falling 0.3 percent from a
year earlier. The  median forecast  of economists in a Bloomberg
survey had called for a gain of 5.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  