-- Irish Bond Yields Fall to Four-Month Low on Plan to Exit Bailout
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-10-14T15:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/german-bunds-little-changed-before-industrial-production-report.html
Irish  government bonds  rose, pushing
10-year yields to the lowest level in four months, as the
country said it is preparing to exit the financial bailout
program that it entered almost three years ago.  Italian and Spanish securities also advanced. German bonds
were little changed as U.S. lawmakers struggled to reach an
accord on raising the federal debt limit three days before
America’s borrowing authority lapses. Investors should buy
Spanish bonds as the government reforms improve the nation’s
finances, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  “The news that Ireland plans to exit its bailout program
is maybe also proving positive for the other peripheral
countries,” said Marius Daheim, a senior fixed-income
strategist at  Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich. “ Spain  and Italy
are in a different camp from Ireland but I wouldn’t rule out a
bit of sentiment coming across. However, the U.S. debt issue is
still dominating everything and there remains hope this can get
resolved, which is keeping yields stable.”  Ireland’s 10-year yield fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 3.67 percent at 4:34 p.m.  London  time, the
lowest level since May 31. The 3.9 percent bond due in March
2023 rose 0.35, or 3.50 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,359) face
amount, to 101.80.  ‘Potential Backstops’  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  will travel to meet
European and International Monetary Fund officials within the
next two weeks to discuss how best to manage the bailout exit,
ministry spokesman Paul Bolger said. The talks will center “on
what options may be available to Ireland as it exits the
bailout, including potential backstops,” he said.  Both Ireland and Spain have seen very important economic
turnarounds, European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said today in Luxembourg.  Ireland’s building industry expanded last month for the
first time since the country’s 2007 property market collapse as
 home construction  increased,  Ulster Bank  said today, citing a
survey of  purchasing managers .  Italy’s 10-year yield declined two basis points to 4.26
percent after falling to 4.25 percent, the lowest level since
Sept. 26. Similar-maturity Spanish yields dropped two basis
points to 4.27 percent.  Spain Bet  Investors should bet Spanish bonds will rise through the
end of this year as the nation’s adjustment story is just behind
Ireland’s, according to Harvinder Sian and Michael Michaelides,
fixed-income strategists at RBS in London. They are likely to
outperform Italian securities, known as BTPs, they said.  “We think one of your structural trades is to be long
SPGBs, outright or against BTPs, on a recovery story in terms of
reforms,” the strategists wrote in an e-mailed note dated Oct.
11. “Market sentiment will be that Spain is just several
quarters behind this Ireland story.”  Bonds from Greece, Spain, Ireland, Portugal and Italy all
advanced in the past month, extending their average returns this
year to 13.5 percent, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes.
German bonds returned 0.9 percent in the month through Oct. 11,
the indexes show.  The benchmark German 10-year yield was at 1.86 percent
after climbing to 1.88 percent on Oct. 11, the  highest level 
since Sept. 24.  With the U.S.’s borrowing authority set to lapse on Oct.
17, Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said yesterday he had a
“productive conversation” with Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell 
without reaching a conclusion on a plan to send to the chamber
for a vote.  Partial Shutdown  While optimism also was expressed by Democratic and
Republican senators on Sunday television talk shows, there was
little evidence to support their words as the government’s
partial shutdown entered its third week and the markets are
weighing the short time left to avert a U.S. default.  “We are very much looking for any headlines from the
U.S.,” said  Michael Leister , a senior rates strategist at
Commerzbank AG in London. “There was expectation on Friday that
an agreement was getting closer, and now it turns out that is
not really materializing. The market is jumping on any kind of
signals.”  Germany sold 2.8 billion euros of six-month securities
today at an average yield of 0.0363 percent, down from 0.0461
percent when the nation last sold similar debt on Sept. 9.
 France  auctioned a combined 7.3 billion euros of bills.  U.S. Treasuries trading is closed today for Columbus Day,
while the stock markets are open.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  