-- Glencore Said to Vie With Vitol for $1 Billion Kazakh Oil Deal
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s   a n d   A n d y   H o f f m a n
-- 2013-10-14T13:33:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/glencore-said-to-vie-with-vitol-for-1-billion-kazakh-oil-deal.html
Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  and Vitol SA
are competing to buy $1 billion of crude from  Kazakhstan ’s
largest oil field, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The world’s largest oil traders are negotiating to purchase
state-run KazMunaiGaz National Co.’s share of production from
Kashagan, which started pumping oil last month, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the deal is private. The
companies may raise pre-payment loans of as much as $1 billion
to buy the oil, delivered over five years, they said.  Crude traders including Vitol, Glencore and Trafigura
Beheer BV have been striking output deals with producers in
 Russia  and Central Asia to secure long-term supplies of oil.
Glencore and Vitol teamed up earlier this year to make a $10
billion pre-payment to Russia’s top oil producer  OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  in
return for 67 million tons of crude over five years. Trafigura,
an independent oil trader, raised a $1.5 billion loan to finance
deliveries from Rosneft in June.  Kashagan started production last month after eight years of
delays and costs that climbed to $48 billion. Production at the
Caspian Sea field will rise to 370,000 barrels a day in the
first phase from an initial 40,000 barrels a day, Kurmangazy
Iskaziyev, deputy head of KazMunaiGaz, said Oct. 1. Production
was halted for the second time after a gas pipeline leak, the
project’s operator said Oct. 11.  KazMunaiGaz holds 16.8 percent of the project.  Officials at Geneva-based Vitol and Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore, declined to comment on the supply contract and
financing. Officials at KazMunaiGaz didn’t respond to two phone
calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Hoffman in Geneva at 
 ahoffman31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy Coulter at 
 tcoulter@bloomberg.net  