-- GN Jumps as Deutsche Bank Sees Headset Growth: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-14T08:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/gn-jumps-as-deutsche-bank-sees-headset-growth-copenhagen-mover.html
GN Store Nord A/S (GN) , which owns
Europe’s biggest headset maker, rose the most among Copenhagen’s
benchmark shares today after Deutsche Bank AG said the market
underestimates the unit’s growth potential.  GN rose as much as 3.6 percent, making it today’s  biggest
winner  in the Nasdaq  OMX Copenhagen 20 Index. (KFX)  The stock rose 3.1
percent to 121.30 kroner at 10:41 a.m. in Copenhagen, with
trading volume at 39 percent of the three-month daily average.  GN, based in Ballerup,  Denmark , generates about 60 percent
of its revenue from its hearing aid division and 40 percent from
the headset unit. Deutsche Bank started coverage today on the GN
share with a buy recommendation and said the company’s headset
sales will “at least double” through 2017 while profitability
will “slightly” improve.  The headset market “is not commoditising, its opportunity
to innovate is increasing and it has high entry barriers,” Yi-Dan Wang, a London-based Deutsche Bank analyst, said in a report
on the industry. “While it did not grow much in the last five
years, it is just starting to undergo robust structural growth
that can become viral in our view.”  Deutsche Bank assigned GN shares a 12-month price estimate
of 145 kroner. That compares with an average target of 128
kroner for the 18 analysts tracking the stock, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  GN is scheduled to publish third-quarter earnings on Nov.
15. The company may report net income of 194 million kroner
($35.3 million), according to the  average  of seven analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 64 million
kroner a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  