-- Golfer McIlroy Sues Agent After Paying $6.8 Million Fees
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-10-14T17:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/golfer-mcilroy-sues-agent-horizon-after-paying-6-8-million-fee.html
Two-time golf major winner Rory  McIlroy (NKE)  sued his former agent in a bid to end what he called an
“unconscionable” contract which cost him $6.8 million in fees.  McIlroy, 24, said he lacked legal advice, business
experience and was too young when he signed the deal with
Dublin-based Horizon Sports Management on Dec. 21, 2011,
according to a statement of claim filed Oct. 9 in the  High Court 
in Dublin. He agreed the contract under “circumstances of great
informality” on the day of Horizon’s Christmas party, according
to the filing. Horizon said it would defend itself
“vigorously.”  McIlroy, who lives in  Monaco , started his own management
group last month, the second change in two years for the
Northern Irishman. He left International Sports Management for
Horizon, months after winning the  U.S. Open . McIlroy filed the
lawsuit despite the firm’s efforts to reach an “orderly and
fair resolution,” the company said in an e-mailed statement.  “Since October 2011, under Horizon’s management, Rory
McIlroy has signed some of the most lucrative endorsement
contracts in sports history,” the company said. “Today, he is
one of the world’s most highly remunerated sports people.”  Nike Inc.  In December, Nike Inc. agreed to pay him fees of about $20
million each year, McIlroy said. McIlroy said he later disputed
how Horizon sought to benefit from the Nike contract. A
spokesman for Horizon said they wouldn’t comment beyond the
statement it issued.  Under the terms of the contract he signed in 2011, McIlroy
agreed to pay Horizon 5 percent of any prize winnings from golf
and a further 20 percent of any other income.  Such a fee structure was more suitable for an inexperienced
and unproven golfer, rather than McIlroy, who was one of the
world’s top players, according to the claim. He shouldn’t have
paid any fees on golf winnings and between 5 percent and 7
percent on other income, he said.  “Horizon has confidence in its position,” the management
agency said. “This confidence is underpinned by a legally
binding contract and the clear evidence of the exceptional job
done for Rory McIlroy by Horizon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in Dublin at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  