-- GSW Recommends Shareholders Accept Deutsche Wohnen’s Offer
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-10-14T16:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/gsw-recommends-shareholders-accept-deutsche-wohnen-s-offer.html
GSW Immobilien AG (GIB)  recommended that
shareholders accept a 1.75 billion-euro ($2.4 billion) takeover
bid by competitor  Deutsche Wohnen AG. (DWNI)  The deal would create
 Germany ’s second-largest owner of apartments.  A combination with Deutsche Wohnen makes sense because it
forms the basis for a fair and socially acceptable integration
that would have a goal of keeping as many jobs as possible, GSW
said in a statement after the market closed today.  “We consider the business combination as a convincing
opportunity to pool the strengths of the two companies and to
develop them with the aim to create additional value,” GSW co-Chief Executive Officers Joerg Schwagenscheidt and Andreas Segal
said in the statement.  GSW shareholders must decide whether to accept an offer of
2.55 Deutsche Wohnen shares for each GSW stock by midnight on
Oct. 30. Both companies are based in Berlin, where price and
rent increases have outpaced the rest of the country.  Deutsche Wohnen needs acceptances from investors owning at
least 75 percent of GSW shares to proceed with the deal. The
combined company would own about 150,000 apartments valued at
8.5 billion euros, Deutsche Wohnen said in August. Deutsche
Wohnen CEO Michael Zahn would head the combined company.  Deutsche Annington Immobilien SE (ANN)  is Germany’s biggest
residential landlord, with 180,000 apartments and a market value
of 4.4 billion euros.  From the 2014 financial year onward, Deutsche Wohnen’s
dividend will be increased to about 60 percent of funds from
operations, a measure of a property company’s ability to
generate cash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  