-- Gulf Coast Gasoline Rises to 6-Week High on Seasonal Work
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-10-14T20:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/gulf-coast-gasoline-rises-to-6-week-high-on-seasonal-work.html
Spot gasoline on the U.S. Gulf Coast
strengthened to a  six-week high  as refiners carried out seasonal
maintenance, lowering production in the region.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline  climbed 2.5 cents to 8.25
cents a gallon below futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange
at 3:45 p.m., the strongest since Sept. 3, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Conventional  CBOB gasoline  gained 2.25
cents to 9 cents below futures.  Differentials narrowed as refiners including  Marathon
Petroleum Corp. (MPC) ’s Garyville, Louisiana, site and  Delek US
Holdings Inc. (DK) ’s Tyler,  Texas , plant planned to shut units for
work this month.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ’s Port Arthur refinery,
also in Texas, is operating at reduced rates during repairs at a
wet-gas compressor, a person familiar with operations said.  Refineries in the area, known as PADD 3,  processed  almost 8
million barrels a day of crude oil and other feedstocks in the
week ended Oct. 4, the lowest level since April 26, according to
U.S. Energy Information Administration data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “As PADD 3 refiners progress with seasonal maintenance,
regional crude oil refinery inputs dropped,” Charles R. Weber
Co., a shipbroker based in Greenwich,  Connecticut , said in a
weekly report.  Marathon was expected to shut a crude unit and coker for
about 30 to 40 days of planned maintenance in Garyville, while
Delek planned to carry out five to six weeks of work on an
alkylation unit. Valero’s  Port Arthur refinery  is operating the
larger of two crude units at reduced rates  The Garyville, Tyler and Port Arthur refineries have a
combined capacity of about 892,000 barrels a day, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Crack Spreads  The  3-2-1 crack spread  on the Gulf Coast, a rough measure
of refining margins for gasoline and diesel fuel based on West
Texas Intermediate oil in Cushing,  Oklahoma , rose 18 cents to
$11.40 a barrel. Cracks based on  Light Louisiana Sweet oil , the
Gulf Coast benchmark, gained 88 cents to $8.90 a barrel,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ultra-low-sulfur diesel  on the Gulf Coast spot market rose
0.12 cent to 5.63 cents below Nymex futures, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Crude units heat oil and separate it based on boiling
temperatures into intermediate products for further processing
in other parts of the plant. Cokers convert heavy residual fuel
remaining after vacuum distillation into lighter products such
as naphtha and diesel. Alkylation units produce a high-octane
blending component for gasoline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  