-- Libor Splits U.K. Judges as Barclays Case Goes on Appeal
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-10-14T07:25:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/libor-splits-u-k-judges-as-barclays-case-goes-to-appeals-court.html
Judge Jeremy Cooke told lawyers
assembled in his  London  courtroom last February he wouldn’t
allow Indian property company Unitech Ltd. to add accusations of
Libor-rigging to its lawsuit against Deutsche Bank AG.  Realizing he’d contradicted another judge in the U.K.’s
only other Libor lawsuit, Cooke explained he disagreed with his
colleague. Months earlier, Judge Julian Flaux had given Guardian
Care Homes permission to link its swap losses to  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s
Libor fixing.  Cooke said Flaux’s interpretation of the law was “no
help.”  The Court of Appeal will decide who was right in the rare
judicial split following a hearing that is scheduled to start
today in London. If the court adopts Flaux’s approach to alleged
victims, it could open the door to more suits against lenders
accused of manipulating the London interbank offered rate, the
baseline for about $300 trillion of contracts worldwide.  “It’s a very unusual situation that two commercial court
judges have come to such divergent opinions,” said  Tom Hibbert ,
a London lawyer specializing in bank disputes who isn’t involved
in either case.  Regulatory probes across the globe into banks’ attempts to
manipulate interest-rate benchmarks have led to fines and
settlements totaling about $2.6 billion for Barclays,  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  ICAP Plc. (IAP)  E-mails released in
the investigations show traders tried to influence rates to
boost trading profits.  Similar Cases  The Deutsche Bank and Barclays cases are at face value
similar -- both started life as claims that banks sold their
clients unsuitable  interest-rate swaps . Unitech and Guardian
sought to add Libor allegations to those suits.  “This started as an alleged mis-selling case which
Barclays considers has no merit,” said bank spokesman Jon
Laycock. “The addition of a claim based on what happened with
Libor does not change the bank’s view.” He said Guardian owes
about 70 million pounds ($112 million).  While the appeal court won’t resolve either case, it will
determine whether victims can void contracts linked to Libor, or
just seek compensation for losses.  Unitech and Guardian will argue the banks’ contracts were
based on the assumption they wouldn’t try to manipulate the
underlying benchmark, a so-called implied representation. They
say they wouldn’t have entered into the deals at all if they had
known what was going on.  ‘Relaxed Approach’  “If the court of appeal adopts a relaxed approach to
implying representations, then that potentially opens the way
for many more claims where financial instruments have been
pegged to Libor,” said Edward Allen, another lawyer not
involved in the cases.  The distinction is important because it means the contracts
can be torn up, Hibbert said. Unitech and Guardian “would like
to establish an implied representation case so they can seek to
rescind the contract, and walk away from it,” he said.
Otherwise they would have to prove a loss and seek damages.  Kathryn Hanes, spokeswoman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Bank, said Unitech’s Libor allegations were an attempt to divert
attention from its debt.  “This is a long-standing case of a loan that was made and
not paid back,” she said.  Toby Pellew, a spokesman for Guardian, and Unitech lawyer
Richard Gwynne declined to comment.  U.S. Cases  U.K. courts haven’t seen as many Libor-related lawsuits as
those in the U.S, where the city of Houston, Virginia-based
regulator  National Credit Union Administration , and the
 University of California  have sued lenders over manipulation of
the benchmark.  Banks haven’t generally disclosed how much they have set
aside to cover Libor-related claims.  “There are bigger issues out there, such as proposed
regulatory changes over leverage,” said Tom Rayner, a bank
analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in London. “The market is aware of
the potential for future legal costs, particularly in the U.S.”  The Barclays, Deutsche Bank appeal is scheduled to last
four days, with today set aside for judges to read the
documents. Public hearings begin tomorrow.  The cases are: Graiseley Properties Ltd & Ors. v. Barclays
Bank Plc, High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division,
Commercial Court, 12-1259; and Deutsche Bank AG & Ors v. Unitech
Global Limited & Anr,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s Bench
Division, Commercial Court, 11-1199 (X1Q6M1JRB282)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  