-- Ibovespa Futures Drop as Global Growth Concern Saps Stock Demand
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-10-14T12:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/ibovespa-futures-drop-as-global-growth-concern-saps-stock-demand.html
Ibovespa  futures  sank as speculation
that U.S. lawmakers will miss a deadline to raise the country’s
debt limit fueled concern that global economic growth will
falter, damping demand for Brazilian stocks.  Hypermarcas SA (HYPE3) , a manufacturer of consumer products
including diapers and generic drugs, may move after it was rated
the equivalent of buy in new coverage at Credit Suisse Group AG.
 Eike Batista ’s shipbuilder  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  may be active after
saying it’s still renegotiating a 548 million-real loan due on
Oct. 15 with  Brazil ’s national development bank.  Ibovespa futures contracts expiring on Oct. 16 fell 0.4
percent to 52,845 at 9:27 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real was little
changed at 2.1755 per dollar. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
futures expiring in December dropped 0.8 percent.  “The fiscal impasse in the U.S. is still putting pressure
on global equities, after no deal was reached during the
weekend,” Banco Bradesco’s economic team wrote in a note to
clients today. “Brazilian stocks will probably fall, given the
concerns about the external outlook.”  With the U.S.’s borrowing authority set to lapse Oct. 17,
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said yesterday that he had a
“productive conversation” with Minority Leader Mitch McConnell
without reaching a conclusion on a plan to send to the chamber
for a vote. The U.S. government began a partial shutdown Oct. 1
after Congress failed to pass a spending authorization bill for
the financial year.  The Ibovespa entered a bull market Sept. 9 after rising 20
percent from this year’s low on July 3 through that day. The
gauge is still down 18 percent in dollar terms this year,
compared with a decline of 3.2 percent for the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Trading volume of stocks in Sao Paulo was 5.12 billion
reais on Oct. 11, compared with a daily average of 7.58 billion
reais this year through Oct. 10, according to data compiled by
the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  