-- India Inflation Reaching Seven-Month High Adds Rate Pressure
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-10-14T12:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/india-inflation-unexpectedly-quickens-adding-to-rate-rise-case.html
Indian inflation unexpectedly
accelerated to a seven-month high in September, adding to the
case for a further increase in the benchmark  interest rate .  The  wholesale-price index  rose 6.46 percent from a year
earlier, compared with a 6.1 percent advance in August, the
Commerce Ministry said in New Delhi today. The median of 33
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 6 percent climb.  Governor  Raghuram Rajan , who took over at the  Reserve Bank 
of  India  last month, raised the repurchase rate to 7.5 percent
after vowing to tame inflation, which was almost 10 percent in
September based on a separate gauge of consumer prices released
today. The cost of living is jumping even as economic growth
slows, stoked by food prices and weakness in the rupee that
makes imports more expensive.  “This inflation reading further strengthens the case for a
hike in the repurchase rate,” said Prasanna Ananthasubramanian,
an economist at ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Ltd. in
Mumbai. The RBI is likely to raise the benchmark another 50
basis points by the end of this year.  The rupee, which has lost about 14 percent against the
dollar in the past 12 months, weakened 0.8 percent to 61.545 at
the close in Mumbai. The S&P BSE Sensex  index  rose 0.4 percent.
The yield on the 10-year government bond maturing in May 2023
climbed to 8.58 percent from 8.49 percent on Oct. 11.  Interest Rate  The central bank will increase the  repo rate  by a quarter
of a percentage point to 7.75 percent in the policy review due
Oct. 29, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said today. Rajan will
also further relax liquidity curbs imposed in July to support
the rupee after the currency stabilized, it said.  The rupee has climbed about 13 percent since reaching a
record low on Aug. 28 after Rajan offered concessional swaps for
banks’ foreign-currency deposits and borrowings to encourage
them to raise dollars.  Industrial-output growth  slowed more than economists
estimated in August as  consumer spending  moderated, a report
showed last week. That adds pressure on Prime Minister  Manmohan
Singh ’s government to intensify efforts to revive the economy.  Singh’s steps, ranging from fewer restrictions on foreign
investors to faster approvals for road and power projects, have
so far failed to stem the slowdown in growth. He’s also pledged
to curb the  budget deficit  to tackle inflation risks from
 government spending .  Growth Nadir  The expansion in  Asia ’s third-largest economy is
“somewhere near the low,” Rajan, a former International
Monetary Fund chief economist, said in a speech in  Washington  on
Oct. 10. The pace should accelerate, helped by exports and farm
output, he said.  Food prices climbed 18.4 percent in September from a year
earlier, with onion costs surging 323 percent, today’s report
showed. Fuel and power prices rose more than 10 percent.  Rupee weakness makes imports such as crude oil more costly.
State-owned Indian Oil Corp. raised petrol prices about 7
percent in September in  New Delhi  compared with the previous
month.  Consumer prices  rose 9.84 percent in September from a year
earlier, compared with 9.52 percent in August, a government
report showed today. That’s the second highest in the Group of
20 major economies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The economy will expand 5 percent to 5.5 percent in the
fiscal year ending March, the Finance Ministry forecasts. HSBC
Holdings Plc predicts slower growth of 4 percent in that period,
which would be the weakest in more than a decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  