-- Irish Construction Grows for First Time Since Property Crash
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-10-14T09:55:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/irish-building-activity-expands-for-first-time-since-2007.html
Ireland’s building industry expanded
last month for the first time since the country’s 2007 property
market collapse as home construction increased,  Ulster Bank 
said.  The bank’s purchasing managers index for construction rose
to 55.7 in September from 49.7 in August, the highest level
since May 2007, the Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc unit said
in a report published today. A reading below 50 indicates
contraction.  The increase is a sign that the Irish economy is recovering
from the worst property market crash in western  Europe . The
country plunged into recession during the financial crisis as
 house prices  plummeted and unemployment soared. The boost in
homebuilding adds to reports of rising  consumer confidence  and
employment in September.  “They are all signs of an improving economy,” said  Alan McQuaid , an analyst with Merrion Capital in Dublin. “The
construction sector appears to be on the mend.”  Some parts of the country have housing shortages,
especially Dublin, which is contributing to the building
increase, according to Conall MacCoille, an analyst with
brokerage firm Davy. Housing starts are “well below sustainable
rates,” he said by e-mail.  Homebuilding rose to 59.5 from 53.8 on the index and
commercial construction increased to 56.1 from 51, Ulster Bank
said.  “Housing was again the strongest sub-sector, as activity
expanded at its fastest pace since December 2005,” Simon Barry,
the bank’s chief economist for the Republic of Ireland, said in
an e-mailed statement. Optimism for the next 12-month period was
the strongest since January 2004, he said.  Home prices  in Dublin jumped in August by the most in more
than six years on an annual basis, Ireland’s central statistics
office said last month. Prices fell 2.6 percent in the rest of
Ireland, the CSO said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in Dublin at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  