-- Jeremy Lin Agent Tanner Leaves Law Firm to Start Sports Practice
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-10-14T01:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/jeremy-lin-agent-tanner-leaves-law-firm-to-start-sports-practice.html
Jim Tanner, a partner at Williams &
Connolly LLP who represents some of the biggest names in
basketball, including point guard Jeremy Lin of the Houston
Rockets, is leaving the Washington-based  law firm  to start a
sports and entertainment management business.  Tanner, who turned 45 yesterday, said in a telephone
interview that he’s taking all of his clients with him to
Arlington, Virginia-based Tandem Sports & Entertainment, which
opens for business tomorrow. The company’s name, he said,
portrays how his team will operate.  “We chose Tandem because collaboration is our hallmark --
collaboration with clients as well as each other,” said Tanner,
whose last day at Williams & Connolly was Oct. 11. “Our vision
for Tandem is to combine the best elements of an agency with the
best elements of a law firm.”  Tanner said changes in the National Basketball Association
landscape, ranging from team management to the top job of
commissioner, where  Adam Silver  will replace  David Stern  in
February of 2014, convinced him to leave the law firm he’s
worked for the past 16 years.  “It felt like the right time,” he said.  Leaving the firm known for its litigators enables Tanner
and his colleagues to place more of a focus on the non-legal,
non-negotiation parts of the practice, such as marketing and
communications, he said, adding that Tandem will add new agents.  “The singular focus will be on sports and entertainment,”
he said.  Besides Lin, Tanner’s clients include former NBA Most
Valuable Player  Tim Duncan , 10-time All-Star Ray Allen and  Shane
Battier  of the two-time NBA champion Miami Heat, and retired
player  Grant Hill , who last month was named the co-host of NBA
TV’s “Inside Stuff” program.  Hourly Rate  Williams & Connolly, whose lawyers represented  Bill Clinton 
in his impeachment trial and Oliver North regarding his role in
the Iran-Contra scandal, was among the pioneers in the practice
of charging its athlete clients an hourly rate rather than, as
most sports agents do, a percentage of the playing and
endorsement contracts. The firm also represented Presidents
 Barack Obama  and  George W. Bush  on their book deals.  Tanner said Tandem will offer the hourly rate. Other
billing models will be available, too, he said.  Senior Partner Robert B. Barnett, a member of Williams &
Connolly’s Executive Committee, in a telephone interview said
the firm would continue to represent athletes, coaches and
sportscasters in whatever role is required. He praised Tanner as
“a first-class lawyer and a first-class person.”  “He is following his dream and I can only admire that and
wish for its success,” he said.  Colleagues Joining  Joining Tanner in the new venture are former Williams &
Connolly colleagues Helen Dooley (senior vice president of
talent representation and general counsel), Terese Whitehead
(senior vice president of marketing and brand development),
Shana Martin (senior vice president of client and business
operations), Graham Boone (director of basketball operations),
and Kenyon Redfoot (Director of brand strategy). Derrick Powell,
who previously worked for Excel Sports Management, the firm
whose clients include golfer  Tiger Woods  and New York Yankees
captain  Derek Jeter , joined  Tandem as vice president of player
representation.  “It’s not just about me,” Tanner said. “It’s really
about the incredible team that we’ve put together.”  Additionally, Meredith Geisler and her independent sports
communications practice will be integrated into Tandem. She’ll
serve as the company’s senior vice president of communications.  Tanner, who has been recognized by Sports Illustrated as
one of the “101 Most Influential Minorities in Sports,” also
represents a number of corporate executives and professional and
college coaches in contract negotiations.  While Tanner’s practice has been basketball-centric, he
said Tandem seeks the right clients irrespective of their sport.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  