-- Kinh Do Looks to Noodles as Vietnam Growth Slows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-15T08:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/kinh-do-looks-to-noodles-as-vietnam-growth-slows-southeast-asia.html
Kinh Do Corp.,  Vietnam ’s biggest
listed confectionery maker, may expand into noodles, cooking
oils and sauces within three years as it seeks new products to
weather slowing economic growth.  “Our existing products are still somewhat seasonal in that
we sell a lot during the holidays and a lot less during the
regular time of year,” Chief Financial Officer Kelly Wong said
in an interview at a Kinh Do office in Ho Chi Minh City. “We
want to sell products that people eat more regularly.”  Having a wider range of food items would help Kinh Do
maximize its nationwide distribution network for economies of
scale throughout the year, Wong said. Vietnam’s gross domestic
product growth last year was the lowest since 1999, according to
International Monetary Fund  data , while the nation’s  retail
sales  through September increased at the slowest pace since at
least 2005.  “Kinh Do has a very strong local brand that is well-recognized throughout the country, and that helps them launch
new products at a cheaper cost than companies that have to spend
heavily on marketing,” said Michel Tosto, head of institutional
sales and brokerage at Viet Capital Securities in  Ho Chi Minh
City . “If they can successful leverage their brand to go into
new products, it would probably be seen in the market as
positive.”  Shares of the Ho Chi Minh City-based Kinh Do were unchanged
today. The stock has advanced 28 percent this year, compared
with a 20 percent gain for the nation’s benchmark VN Index.  Slowing Economy  Vietnam’s annual economic growth averaged 7.4 percent from
1990 to 1999, slowed to 6.9 percent in the next decade, and
eased further to 6 percent since 2010, according to the IMF. GDP
will probably expand 5.3 percent this year and 5.4 percent in
2014, IMF data show.  The economic slowdown “makes us work a lot harder,” Wong
said Oct. 10. “But it also forces us to look forward much
further, in the sense of what other categories do we need to
include in order to maintain a steady growth or have a
sustainable business.”  Revenue at Kinh Do rose 1 percent to 4.29 trillion dong
($203 million) and net income climbed 28 percent to 354 billion
dong last year, according to its annual report. Biscuits were
the largest sales contributor, accounting for 26 percent,
followed by cakes at 18 percent, mooncakes at 17 percent, ice
cream at 14 percent and buns at 12 percent, Kinh Do said in May.  “The newer products we talk about -- noodles, oils, sauces
-- are products that people would consume on a daily basis,”
Wong said. “It’s about us as a company having products that are
higher penetration.”  ‘Serious Threat’  Competition in Vietnam’s food industry will probably
increase as the government negotiates to enter trade accords
such as the  Trans-Pacific Partnership  with nations including
 Japan  and the U.S.  Multinational competitors are “a serious threat,” the CFO
said. “It’s hard to ignore a 90 million-person market.”  Once the trade pact accord takes effect, the duty rate for
imported food products that compete with Kinh Do’s will probably
drop, said Fred Burke, managing director of  Baker & McKenzie 
(Vietnam) Ltd. in Ho Chi Minh City.  Foreign companies will enjoy greater  market access  because
the licensing process, now onerous for them, should become less
cumbersome after the accord, Burke said.  Among Kinh Do’s competitors in new businesses would include
Masan Group Corp., a saucemaker, and the Vietnamese unit of
Japan’s  Acecook Co. , which produces noodles. Kinh Do won’t
target the top market position for these businesses, Wong said.  Comfortable Spot  “It’s too expensive to really go at it with existing
market leaders,” he said. “Our goal is really to carve out a
nice, comfortable number three or four spot, to get into a
category where we can scale up quickly.”  While the company would leverage its own networks in
Vietnam for distribution, some production may be outsourced to
countries such as Malaysia or  Indonesia , according to Wong.  Kinh Do also has some property investments which it wants
to exit entirely, a process that may take a few more years, Wong
said. The company’s move to focus on its core food operations
has helped its share price and standing with investors,
according to Viet Capital’s Tosto.  “There’s the opportunity cost of that much money sitting
in something that doesn’t return,” Wong said. “We’ve learned
our lesson. The focus is the food business.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  