-- Koons Leads $2 Billion Art-Market Test for Frieze Week
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2013-10-14T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/koons-leads-2-billion-art-market-test-for-frieze-week.html
London’s Frieze Week starts today
with a record 10 fairs, about as many auctions and numerous
dealer shows boosting the value of the art on sale to as much as
$2 billion.  Frieze Art Fair in Regent’s Park opens to VIP visitors
tomorrow and attracts billionaires looking for new art stars and
established names. Among the 152 galleries taking part, Gagosian
will be showing five large-scale works by  Jeff Koons . The sister
event, Frieze Masters, opens today with 130 dealers showing a
contrasting range of modern and historic works.  “The pace is non-stop,” New York-based art adviser
Heather Flow said in an interview. “There are a lot of art
fairs this week, though I’m not sure if too many good things to
see is such a bad problem. The search for the next superstar is
gathering momentum. Secondary market prices are astronomical.”  Frieze and its offshoots have grown into the biggest seven-day concentration of art-market events in any European capital.
Also opening today are the Pavilion of Art + Design in Berkeley
Square and the inaugural 1:54 fair of contemporary African art
at  Somerset House .  Starting tomorrow, Phillips,  Sotheby’s (BID)  and Christie’s
International will be offering more than 900 works of postwar
and contemporary art valued at as much as 152.9 million pounds
($245 million).  Balloon Dog  The Koons works at Gagosian’s Frieze booth include the
stainless steel “Sacred Heart (Blue/Magenta), (1994-2007), part
of the U.S.-based artist’s “Celebration” series. Gagosian never
discloses prices to the media. A version of “Balloon Dog” from
the series is estimated to sell for between $35 million and $55
million at Christie’s  New York  next month.  A recent painting by Colombian-born Oscar Murillo, priced
at as much as $150,000, will be shown at Frieze by the New York-and London-based dealer  David Zwirner .  Two years ago, paintings by Murillo, who has a London
studio, could be bought for less than $3,000. He is now hailed
by some as the new  Jean-Michel Basquiat . One of his abstracts
sold for a record $401,000 at Phillips New York on Sept. 19.  Hauser & Wirth will show U.S.-based Sterling Ruby’s 2013
spray paint-on-canvas “SP246,” priced at $550,000, typifying
the upper  price levels  at a fair that specializes in works by
younger, living artists. More valuable works by dead artists,
stretching back to  Old Masters  and beyond, will be shown today
at the second edition of Frieze Masters.  Old Master  The event has been bolstered by the arrival of heavyweight
exhibitors such as the London-based Old Master specialist Johnny van Haeften, and New York’s Mnuchin and Dominique Levy
galleries, who will bring big-ticket 20th-century classics.  “The fair has reinvigorated interest in people coming to
London for this week,” says the dealer Thomas Dane, who is
exhibiting at both Frieze events. “Masters is more of an
adventure, and hopefully the connoisseurship we see at that
event will spill over into Frieze.” He has a 1950s Lucian Freud
drawing of  Francis Bacon , priced at 1.3 million pounds.  The Pavilion of Art + Design London, a fair of 60 dealers
held in a temporary structure near Claridge’s and the Connaught
hotels, includes a white single-cut Lucio Fontana “Concetto
Spaziale, Attesa,” priced at 6 million euros ($8.15 million) on
the booth of the London dealer Ben Brown Fine Arts. Paris-based
Galerie Applicat-Prazan will be showing a 1953 Pierre Soulages
abstract at 3.5 million euros.  The main innovation of this year’s Frieze Week is the first
1:54 fair devoted to contemporary African art with 15 dealers.  The fair will include photographs by  Angola ’s Edson Chagas,
who won the Golden Lion for his nation’s pavilion at the Venice
Biennale in June. The London-based Jack Bell Gallery will be
showing art made of weapons from the Mozambique civil war by
Goncalo Mabunda. Prices for the artist range from 5,000 pounds
to 14,000 pounds.  Muse highlights include  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night,
 Richard Vines  on food and  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in  London  at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 