-- Kramer Levin, Simpson on Del Monte Deal: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-10-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/kramer-levin-simpson-on-del-monte-deal-business-of-law.html
Del Monte Pacific Ltd. (DELM) , the
Philippines-based pineapple, tomato and fruit-juice company,
agreed to buy the consumer food business of closely held U.S.
foodmaker Del Monte Foods Co. for $1.68 billion to expand in the
world’s biggest economy.  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP is representing Del Monte
Foods, while Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP represents Del
Monte Pacific.  The Kramer Levin team includes partners Jay A. Neveloff,
real estate; Peter G. Smith, corporate; and David J. Fisher,
banking and finance.  Corporate partner Marni Lerner is leading Simpson Thacher’s
team.  The deal between the two unaffiliated companies gives the
Asian firm rights to the Del Monte, Contadina, S&W and College
Inn brands in the U.S., the San Francisco-based company said in
a statement Oct. 15. The Philippine company already has licenses
for some of the brands in parts of  Asia .  Del Monte Pacific is seeking to expand into the U.S., where
 consumer spending  rose in August for a fourth consecutive month.
The deal gives it canned fruit, vegetable and broth brands as
part of a business that counts Wal-Mart Stores Inc. among its
customers. The lines generate annual sales of about
$1.8 billion, according to the statement.  For more, click here.  Moves  Ex-New York State Charities Bureau Chief Joins Zuckerman Spaeder  Zuckerman Spaeder LLP hired  Jason R. Lilien , former  New
York  State charities bureau chief under Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman, in the firm’s New York office to lead its new
nonprofit-organizations practice.  Lilien will represent clients in the nonprofit sector in
corporate governance and compliance matters, internal
investigations, regulatory and enforcement actions, corporate
transactions, nonprofit formation, and charitable fundraising
the firm said.  “Under his leadership, we have taken our Charities Bureau
to an entirely new level and made it a vehicle for
transformational change for New York’s nonprofits,”
Schneiderman said in a statement. “Without Jason’s leadership,
we would never have passed groundbreaking charities reform
legislation in New York.”  Lilien joins former colleagues, Steven M. Cohen, who was
Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s top adviser and Cuomo’s chief of staff
in the attorney general’s office, and Mitra Hormozi, former
chairman of the New York State Commission on Public Integrity
and former chief of the Organized Crime Unit of the U.S.
Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York.  Zuckerman Spaeder has lawyers at offices in Washington, New
York, Tampa,  Florida , and Baltimore.  McCarter & English Adds Investment Management Lawyers  McCarter & English LLP announced that Laura Anne Corsell
joined the firm as a partner along with a counsel in
Philadelphia. She was previously a partner at Montgomery,
McCracken, Walker & Rhoads LLP and chairwoman of the investment
management practice.  Corsell counsels investment companies and investment
advisers with respect to the Investment Company Act of 1940, the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and related federal and state
regulations, the firm said.  “McCarter’s commitment to a cross-disciplinary approach to
its financial services clients was critical in our decision to
join McCarter,” Corsell said in a statement. “We hope our
experience in  investment management  will complement the deep
expertise for which McCarter’s business practice groups have
long been known.”  McCarter & English has 400 attorneys at offices in  Boston ,
Hartford,  Connecticut ; New York;  Newark ,  New Jersey ;
Philadelphia;  Stamford , Connecticut; and Wilmington,  Delaware .  Venable Adds to Corporate, Tax Practices in Washington  Venable LLP added Washington corporate attorney Ralph W. Hardy Jr. and tax attorney Stephanie M. Loughlin, both from Dow
Lohnes PLLC. Loughlin led Dow Lohnes’s tax planning practice.  Loughlin handles tax matters such as advising businesses in
structuring joint ventures and acquisitions, and she represents
closely held businesses and their owners in succession issues,
estate planning and charitable objectives, the firm said.  Hardy advises on transactions including mergers,
acquisitions and joint ventures. He has been especially active
in the technology, energy, pulp and paper industries, the firm
said.  Venable has offices in Washington,  California , Delaware,
 Maryland , New York and Virginia.  Shipping Finance Lawyer Berman Joins Norton Rose in New York  Shipping and corporate finance lawyer Brad Berman joined
 Norton Rose  Fulbright LLP. He was previously executive director
at the Liberian International Ship and Corporate Registry.  Berman focuses on maritime and corporate finance, offshore
incorporation and private wealth planning.  “Norton Rose Fulbright has one of the largest teams of
transport lawyers in the world. Expanding and developing our
U.S. shipping practice is a continued focus, and we are
fortunate to add a lawyer of Brad’s capability and esteem to the
group,” Kenneth Stewart, managing partner of Norton Rose
Fulbright’s U.S. member firm, said in a statement.  Norton Rose Fulbright has more than 3,800 lawyers in more
than 50 cities in Europe, the U.S.,  Canada ,  Latin America , Asia,
Australia,  Africa , the  Middle East  and Central Asia.  Patton Boggs Adds Three Lawyers to Its Dallas Office  Patton Boggs LLP added two partners and another lawyer in
its Dallas office. The firm hired Gina E. Betts, a former
partner and chairwoman of the private-equity practice in the
Dallas office of Locke Lord LLP as a partner. Laurie G. Lang
also joined the firm as a partner from Munck Wilson Mandala.
Kenneth L. Betts, previously of Locke Lord, joined the firm as
of counsel.  Gina Betts has experience in corporate and securities law
including representing issuers and purchasers in debt and equity
public and private transactions, as well as in LBOs and MBOs,
portfolio company acquisitions and dispositions, fund formations
and other matters, according to her firm biography.  Lang has experience in corporate financing transactions as
well as with senior and subordinated financings, secured- and
unsecured-loan transactions, merger-and-acquisition financing,
and workouts and restructurings, the firm said in a statement.  Kenneth Betts has represented real estate investment trusts
and other issuers and underwriters in public and private
offerings of debt and equity securities. He has experience
structuring listed and nontraded public offerings and REIT
mergers, the firm said.  Patton Boggs has more than 450 lawyers at offices in the
U.S. and the Middle East.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  