-- Netanyahu Says UN Must Not Ease Economic Sanctions Against Iran
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-10-14T15:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/netanyahu-says-un-must-not-ease-economic-sanctions-against-iran.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said  Iran  is capable of enriching uranium to nuclear
weapon strength whenever it chooses and pledged again that
Israel will make sure it doesn’t cross that threshold.  Speaking on the eve of renewed international negotiations
in Geneva over Iran’s disputed nuclear program, Netanyahu said
economic sanctions against the Persian Gulf country must not be
relaxed.  “It would be a historic mistake now to ease the pressure
on Iran just before they achieve their aim,” Netanyahu said
today at the Knesset, Israel’s parliament in  Jerusalem . “We
must remember that it was international pressure that led to
internal change in Iran, that brought the Iranians to make any
concessions and to the negotiating table.”  The speech follows the Israeli leader’s Oct. 1 address to
the United Nations General Assembly in which he denounced
Iranian President Hassan Rouhani as a “wolf in sheep’s
clothing” and warned the world body to “distrust” Rouhani’s
declaration that Iran won’t produce nuclear weapons.  Netanyahu, 63, made similar points during a Sept. 30 White
House meeting with President  Barack Obama , who had earlier
spoken on the phone with Rouhani, in the highest-level contact
between the two countries since Iran’s Islamic revolution of
1979.  “Contrary to the accepted opinion, an easing of pressure
won’t strengthen the moderate forces in Iran,” Netanyahu said.
“It will strengthen the uncompromising stance” of Ayatollah
Ali Khamenei, Iran’s Supreme Leader, “and be seen as a real
victory for him.”  Netanyahu added: “There is no doubt that nuclear arms in
the hands of Iran will first be directed at us and therefore
Israel will not allow Iran to achieve” weapons production.  Turning to Israel’s negotiations with the Palestinians,
Netanyahu said his government is making a “sincere effort to
reach a peace agreement.” He said any peace treaty must include
Palestinian recognition of  Israel  as a Jewish state and
represent a final resolution to all aspects of the conflict.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  