-- Netflix Is Said to Hold Discussions About Cable Partnerships
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-10-14T17:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/netflix-said-to-be-in-discussions-for-u-s-cable-partnerships.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  is in talks to add its
application to the set-top boxes of U.S. cable-television
operators, letting customers search for Web-based movies and TV
shows alongside traditional programs, three people familiar with
the matter said.  Negotiations are furthest along with regional providers and
smaller cable operators that use  TiVo Inc. (TIVO)  set-top boxes,
including Suddenlink Communications, though the earliest
announcements are weeks to months away, said one of the people,
who asked not to be identified because the talks are private.
Netflix, the largest video-streaming subscription service, also
has held preliminary discussions with larger providers such as
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , the people said.  The talks suggest progress in Netflix’s bid to integrate
its service with traditional pay-TV -- an effort under way for
two years, Chief Financial Officer  David Wells  told  Bloomberg
News  last month. Cable operators increasingly see Netflix’s
$7.99 monthly service as a tool to attract and retain customers
and promote their own on-demand offerings, rather than a threat
that will lead users to abandon their pay-TV subscriptions.  For Netflix, cable ties would make it easier for viewers to
find and watch shows without switching over to a different
device, the people said. Newer set-top boxes blend Internet-based programming with traditional  pay television , a development
that could fuel expansion for Netflix if it forges ties with
cable providers.  U.S. cable operators have had an “open offer” to add
Netflix for two years, Wells said in a Sept. 25. interview.  European Deals  Netflix advanced 5.8 percent to $318.23 at 1:34 p.m. in  New
York , the biggest  gain  among members of the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index. The shares have more than tripled this year, for the
best performance of any S&P 500 stock.  The  Los Gatos , California-based company, with 35.6 million
paying subscribers globally as of June, has signed agreements
with two European cable systems. The service also can be
accessed via game consoles, Blu-ray players, smartphones and
Web-TV devices such as Roku.  “We would love to reduce the friction to the end consumer,
and to be available via the existing device in the home, which
is the set-top box,” Wells said at the Goldman Sachs
Communacopia conference last month.  The Wall Street Journal reported Netflix’s discussions with
Comcast and Suddenlink Communications yesterday.  TiVo Partnership  Joris Evers, a Netflix spokesman, declined to comment on
the talks, as did representatives from Suddenlink, Comcast and
Time Warner Cable.  Suddenlink was acquired last year for $6.6 billion,
including debt, by BC Partners Ltd., Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board and a management team led by Jerry Kent. The
St. Louis-based company -- the seventh-largest U.S. cable
operator -- has about 1.4 million customers in  states  such as
Arkansas, Louisiana and  North Carolina .  Suddenlink is deploying Netflix’s Open Connect equipment,
designed to deliver smoother, clearer pictures to cable homes at
lower costs. Some large cable operators have balked at using
Open Connect, saying it sets a precedent that would make future
negotiations with other Web content companies more difficult.  Sweden’s Com Hem and  Virgin Media , a U.K.-based unit of
 Liberty Media (LMCA) , recently announced they would offer Netflix as
part of their rollout of TiVo set-top boxes in Europe. Under
those deals, people still would have to sign up for the
streaming service, and Netflix would control its own billing.  Atlantic Broadband  “Our partners are interested in delivering Netflix to
their subscribers,” Steve Wymer, a TiVo spokesman, said earlier
this month. “We stand ready to replicate our well-received
offerings with Virgin and Com Hem with any partner or future
partner.”  TiVo began shipping new set-top boxes in recent months with
faster processors that let users load Netflix’s service more
quickly. Atlantic Broadband Finance LLC, owned by Montreal-based
 Cogeco Cable Inc. (CCA) , is the first U.S. provider to deploy TiVo’s
most advanced set-top box, called Roamio, Wymer said in an e-mail. Older installed boxes may be upgraded to handle Netflix
late this year or early in the first quarter of 2014, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  