-- Netflix Gets TiVo Assist in Push to Join Cable-TV Lineup
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-10-15T21:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/netflix-is-said-to-discuss-web-based-streaming-with-cox-charter.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , pressing cable
operators to grant equal footing to its Web-based films and
television shows on their pay-TV systems, is getting an assist
from set-top box maker  TiVo Inc. (TIVO)   Netflix, the world’s largest subscription streaming
service, is in discussions with U.S. cable-TV providers to add
its application to their set-top boxes, people with knowledge of
the situation said. The change would let viewers search for its
content without having to switch to a different device like a
video-game console or Apple TV.  TiVo’s role is key to the Netflix effort because the
company, the pioneer of digital-video recorders, makes set-top
boxes that are already installed in the homes of cable-TV
customers across the U.S. TiVo is introducing advanced
technology that integrates cable programming with Internet
services, a potential boon for Netflix’s $7.99-a-month product.  “TiVo has been on a course of implementing that for cable
operators,” Tom Rogers, TiVo’s chief executive officer, said in
an interview yesterday. “We’re very supportive of bringing
Netflix into the fold so that can happen.”  Cable systems can integrate online and TV better than any
other platform and doing so is key to the industry’s future,
Rogers said. For Netflix, forging ties with cable providers
could fuel expansion by putting its Web-based programs alongside
traditional TV shows.  While Netflix has discussed partnerships with Comcast
Corp., the biggest cable company, and other players, those
furthest along are regional providers that rely on boxes from
TiVo to blend traditional TV programming with Web.  Cox, Charter  TiVo customers negotiating with Netflix include Cox
Communications Inc., Suddenlink Communications, RCN Telecom
Services and Atlantic Broadband Finance LLC, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because talks are private.  San Jose , California-based TiVo began shipping new set-top
boxes in recent months with faster processors that let users
load Netflix’s service more quickly. Atlantic Broadband, owned
by Montreal-based  Cogeco Cable Inc. (CCA) , is the first U.S. provider
to deploy its most advanced set-top box, called Roamio, Steve Wymer, a TiVo spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Older installed boxes may be upgraded late this year or
early in the first quarter of 2014 to include search results in
one place, Wymer said. He declined to discuss any plans that
involve Netflix.  Virgin Media  Atlantic Broadband, the 12th largest U.S. cable operator,
wants to offer Netflix alongside services like Time Warner
Inc.’s  HBO  and CBS Corp.’s Showtime, said David Isenberg, chief
marketing and strategy officer, who declined to comment on the
specifics of any talks or timeline.  “The ideal for us would be to provide Netflix to our
customers in the same manner we do other programming,” Isenberg
said in an interview. “What that means for Netflix is they have
an opportunity to grow their subscriber base with zero
acquisition cost and likely reduce churn. For us, we have folks
that want it all, and we see Netflix as complementary to our
standard service offerings.”  Cable One, a pay-TV service owned by Washington Post Co.,
is also interested in talking with Netflix, according to Rima Calderon, a spokeswoman.  Netflix fell 0.8 percent to $321.69 at the close in  New
York . The shares have more than tripled this year, for the best
performance of any S&P 500 stock. TiVo added 0.3 percent to
$12.56, bringing its gain to 2 percent for 2013.  Sweden’s Com Hem and  Virgin Media , a U.K.-based unit of
 Liberty Media (LMCA) , recently said they would offer Netflix as part of
their rollout of TiVo set-top boxes in Europe. Under those
deals, people still would have to sign up for the streaming
service, and Netflix would control its own billing.  Partnership Talks  In addition to the smaller U.S. cable players, Netflix is
in talks to form partnerships with the four biggest U.S. players
-- Comcast,  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , Cox and  Charter
Communications Inc. (CHTR) , according to the people. The earliest
announcements are weeks to months away, they said.  “We’re rapidly moving to an environment where every device
in the home, including the big TV will be connected to the
Internet,” said  Alex Dudley , a spokesman for Charter. “Charter
is open to a myriad ways of enhancing the customer experience
with that technology.”  One obstacle in negotiations is Netflix’s Open Connect
streaming platform, designed to deliver smoother, clearer
pictures to cable homes at lower costs. Netflix wants to locate
storage equipment in or near cable companies’ networks. Some
large cable operators have balked at using Open Connect, saying
it sets a precedent that could make negotiations with other Web
content companies more difficult.  Suddenlink Deal  Suddenlink was acquired last year for $6.6 billion,
including debt, by BC Partners Ltd., Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board and a management team led by Jerry Kent. The
St. Louis-based company -- the seventh-largest U.S. cable
operator -- has about 1.4 million customers in  states  such as
 Arkansas ,  Louisiana  and  North Carolina .  Cable companies are changing their attitudes about
partnerships with services such as Netflix as they confront the
reality of Internet-delivered content, said  Andy Hargreaves , an
analyst with Pacific Crest Securities in  Portland ,  Oregon .  One big change, Hargreaves said, is that pay-TV providers
are starting to understand they can’t expect Netflix to offer
them some of its subscription revenue. Instead, they can use
Netflix as a tool to promote broadband service.  “Consumers like Netflix and they like cable, and they like
them more when they can access them both easily,” Hargreaves
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  