-- Norway Tightens Bank Rules Measuring Losses in Event of Default
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-10-14T05:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/norway-tightens-bank-rules-measuring-losses-in-event-of-default.html
Norway  will tell its banks to base
their capital ratios on bigger loss assumptions in the event of
a default.  The Finance Ministry in Oslo said yesterday banks in
Scandinavia’s richest economy per capita will need to raise
their loss-given-default floor on mortgage assets to 20 percent
from 10 percent, according to a statement on its website. The
rules will become effective from January and banks will also
need to ensure their subsidiaries follow the new requirement,
the ministry said.  The outgoing government of Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg
is tightening bank standards as it hands over power to a
Conservative-led coalition that has discussed easing lending
caps. Norway’s financial regulator has argued in favor of
stricter rules amid concern the nation’s housing market is
overheating.  Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen, who steps down this
week with the Labor government that lost last month’s election,
said banks will keep existing rules based on a floor calculated
under Basel I. Doing so means that the basis for calculations
isn’t weakened for banks using internal models, he said.  “Continuation of Basel I rules according to existing rules
and an increase in the minimum demands for the LGD parameter
will prevent this and provide an impact with what has been
communicated and expected in the market,” Johnsen said.  Lowest Probabilities  The Financial Supervisory Authority is also working on
going through the banks’ models, in part with a view to
increasing the lowest loss probabilities used.  “After such a review, Norwegian banks will probably have
somewhat higher and more equal mortgage weights,” the ministry
said.  The government said earlier this year that an LGD floor of
20 percent would give risk weights on mortgage assets of 20
percent or more.  Authorities in Norway have struggled to stabilize the
housing market after near record-low borrowing rates fueled
 credit growth  in western Europe’s biggest oil producer.
Regulators have responded by capping lending, tightening capital
requirements and raising risk weights. Norway is also stress
testing covered bond issuance to prevent banks from fueling
mortgage market imbalances.  Incoming Prime Minister Erna Solberg has promised to look
over a 2011 guideline capping mortgages at 85 percent of a
home’s value. Solberg is due to take over government together
with coalition partner, the Progress Party, on Oct. 18.  Norway’s FSA, the central bank and the International
Monetary Fund have all sounded the alarm on risks facing the
nation’s housing market after prices doubled over the past
decade and household debt swelled to a record 200 percent of
disposable incomes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  