-- Obamacare Penalty Seen Snaring Last-Minute Applicants: Taxes
-- B y   S a r a   H a n s a r d
-- 2013-10-14T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/obamacare-penalty-seen-snaring-last-minute-applicants-taxes.html
The U.S. health-care law’s tax
penalty for not carrying medical coverage next year may catch
millions of Americans off-guard.  While the open enrollment period for people to obtain
health care through the Obamacare insurance exchanges runs until
March 31, some people may face tax penalties for lack of
coverage if they wait until the final days to sign up, Bloomberg
BNA reported.  Plans purchased between March 1 and March 15 wouldn’t take
effect until April and coverage bought in the final days of
March wouldn’t kick in until May. The Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act of 2010 requires most Americans have an
active health insurance policy by March 31 or pay the higher of
1 percent of their annual income or $95.  “We’ve noticed some interesting chemistry” between these
two requirements, said Brian Haile, senior vice president for
health policy with Jackson Hewitt Tax Service Inc.  Under the Affordable Care Act, starting Jan. 1, people who
have access to affordable coverage and instead remain uninsured
for more than three consecutive months will owe the “individual
responsibility” tax payment for those months, a Department of
Health and Human Services spokeswoman told BNA in an e-mail.  That means an uninsured person eligible for the tax credits
must have coverage effective by March 1, 2014, to avoid the
penalties, Haile said. The  Congressional Budget Office  estimates
that 6 million people will pay the penalty in 2016.  Alexander’s Complaint  Lamar Alexander , a Tennessee Republican who is the ranking
member on the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions
Committee, this month called on the Obama administration to
“improve” how it communicates about the law.  The administration “has repeatedly advertised that open
enrollment starts on October 1, 2013 and ends on March 31,
2014,” Alexander said.  The questions come as the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
Services release a draft technical assistance guidance for
entities that have a role in the enrollment process. That
guidance is intended to “be a living document, updated
regularly, and supported by clarifying bulletins in the interim
between updates,” the agency said.  The agency solicited comments on the draft, and it didn’t
list a date for submitting them.  The draft guidance describes how the marketplaces set up
under the Affordable Care Act for all states are to help people
buying health insurance and receiving subsidies or other
assistance.  Key Dates  In the individual  marketplaces , the initial open enrollment
period is from Oct. 1 through March 31, 2014, and coverage
begins Jan. 1, 2014, for plan selection that takes place through
Dec. 15.  If the plan selection date is between the first and 15th
days of the month from Jan. 1 and March 15, 2014, the effective
coverage date is the first day of the following month, the draft
says. If the plan selection date is between the 16th and last
days of the month from Dec. 16 through March 31, 2014, the
coverage date is the first day of the second following month.  The draft says that although consumers in the individual
marketplaces must normally enroll during the open enrollment
periods, the marketplaces must process applications at any time,
as eligibility for Medicaid or the Children’s Health Insurance
Program isn’t limited to open enrollment periods, Timothy Jost,
a professor at  Washington  and Lee University School of Law,
wrote in a blog posting on the Health Affairs website.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net  