-- Obama Summons Congress Leaders as Reid Says Deal Closer
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n ,   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-10-14T17:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/obama-summons-congress-leaders-as-reid-says-deal-closer.html
President  Barack Obama  summoned the
four congressional leaders to the White House as Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  said lawmakers are “closer” to ending a
partial government shutdown and preventing U.S. borrowing
authority from lapsing in three days.  Reid told reporters at the Capitol today that he and
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  are closer to an agreement
though they haven’t reached one yet.  Obama is set to meet at 3 p.m. with Reid, McConnell, House
Speaker  John Boehner  and House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi .
Senator  Joe Manchin , a West Virginia Democrat, said as he left
Reid’s office that he expected the Senate leaders to present an
agreement to Obama at the meeting.  The movement today in the Senate marked some of the
strongest signals yet that Congress may be able to reach a deal
to increase U.S. borrowing authority before it lapses Oct. 17.
Any proposal could face days of procedural delays in the Senate
and an uncertain path in the Republican-controlled House, where
Boehner would have to decide whether to allow a vote or make
changes.  If Congress does nothing, the federal government would
start missing payments sometime between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  Don Stewart , a McConnell spokesman, said the leaders are
engaged in “good-faith negotiations” and Obama said during a
visit to a Washington nonprofit group today that “there has
been some progress” in the Senate.  ‘Quite Confident’  “It’s not put together until it’s put together,” said
Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat. “But I am quite
confident it will be put together before the debt limit is
reached and before things start to go haywire.”  U.S. stocks trimmed earlier declines amid signs of progress
on an accord that would end the government shutdown and increase
borrowing authority.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.1 percent to
1,704.82 at 1:23 p.m. in New York while the Stoxx Europe 600
Index reversed earlier declines and added 0.2 percent at the
close.  The U.S. cash bond market is closed for Columbus Day. Gold
gained 0.9 percent and natural gas jumped to the highest level
in almost four months.  Senate, House  The Senate convenes at 2 p.m. in Washington with votes
unrelated to fiscal issues planned for 5:30 p.m.  In the House, Republican leaders are weighing whether to
bring up their plans for a short-term debt limit increase, said
two aides who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss
strategy.  House Republicans will meet at 9 a.m. tomorrow to discuss
the details of that proposal, which is expected to include
policy conditions that Obama says he can’t accept.  “Things are back in the middle of the road on the Senate
side,” Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, told
reporters in Washington. “There’s an opportunity today to bring
that to a conclusion and to begin moving something off the
Senate floor in a bipartisan way.”  The congressional deadlock over increasing the U.S. debt
ceiling from $16.7 trillion is threatening the U.S. and world
economies, International Monetary Fund Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  said yesterday in Washington.  McConnell, in a statement yesterday, urged Democratic
leaders to support a plan, based on one drafted by Republican
Senator Susan Collins of  Maine , which Democrats rejected Oct.
12.  Stopgap Spending  The initial Collins proposal included a stopgap spending
bill through March, a debt-limit increase into January and a
two-year repeal of an excise tax on medical devices. Collins’s
plan sought to give federal agencies more flexibility under the
across-the-board cuts known as sequestration.  The plan also would have set a mid-January deadline for
longer-term budget talks and made two changes to Obama’s health-care plan and required his administration to verify income
levels for enrollment in health insurance.  Democratic leaders want a longer debt-limit increase and a
shorter extension of government funding at Republican-preferred
levels. They also oppose attaching policy conditions to the
spending bill or debt limit increase, calling it a ransom for
Congress to do its job.  Six senators working with Collins -- Democrats Manchin,
Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota,  Mark Pryor  of  Arkansas ,  Amy Klobuchar  of Minnesota and Joe Donnelly of  Indiana  and
independent Angus King of Maine -- yesterday said they don’t
support the proposal in its current form.  Making ‘Progress’  “This week, if we don’t start making some real progress
both in the House and the Senate, and if Republicans aren’t
willing to set aside some of their partisan concerns in order to
do what is right for the country, then we stand a good chance of
defaulting,” Obama said.  The Senate negotiations include discussions of easing the
spending caps imposed by sequestration.  Richard Durbin  of
 Illinois , the second-ranking Democrat in the Senate, said there
is a $70 billion spending gap between Democrats and Republicans.  Democrats don’t want to lock in lower spending levels for
most of the 2014 fiscal year, which began Oct. 1. They have been
willing to accept the lower numbers through Nov. 15.  Disagreement over spending is the big sticking point, said
 Jim Manley , a former aide to Reid. Manley, in a telephone
interview, said he’s watching “to see if Senator McConnell
demands some sort of fig leaf from Senator Reid to protect the
speaker or whether he’s prepared to throw him overboard to get
this all behind him.”  ‘Scare’ Markets  Representative Tim Huelskamp, a Kansas Republican, played
down the importance of the deadline and said the White House
“is trying to scare the markets.”  “Oct. 17 is a date that won’t have a major impact unless
the White House can create concern about that,” Huelskamp said
yesterday on CBS’s “Face the Nation.”  A Senate deal probably would face the prospect of a hostile
reception from  House Republicans  still seeking to curtail
Obamacare and opposed to easing spending caps.  Republican strategist Ron Bonjean yesterday described the
latest efforts to find a way out of the impasse as “a Rubik’s
Cube from hell,” adding that even if the Senate passes a plan,
it would be “still pretty much a jump ball in the House.”  “They may simply reject it without offering a Plan B,”
Bonjean, a one-time aide to former Republican Speaker Dennis Hastert, said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  