-- October Car Sales Stall on U.S. Shutdown, Hyundai Says
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-10-15T16:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/october-car-sales-stall-on-u-s-shutdown-hyundai-says.html
A prolonged U.S. government shutdown
is damaging  consumer confidence  and may trim October new-vehicle
sales by as much as 10 percent, said  John Krafcik , chief
executive officer of  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s U.S. sales unit.  The standoff in Washington that began Oct. 1, leaving some
government agencies closed and federal workers furloughed, is
generating “anxiety” for many people, Krafcik said in an
interview with Sara Eisen, an anchor of  Bloomberg Surveillance .  “It’s that anxiety that keeps customers, potential buyers,
on the sidelines when making a big purchase like an
automobile,” he said. “We’ll probably see the industry off
five to 10 percent this month, compared to where it was in
September. I think a lot of it has to do with this shutdown
discussion.”  Auto sales were a consistent bright spot for the  U.S.
economy  this year until September, when fewer sales days in the
month than usual led to 2013’s first decline in deliveries. The
year’s final quarter, when carmakers sell off previous model
year vehicles and transition to newer products, tends to be a
strong sales period for the industry.  September deliveries slipped 4.2 percent for the first
decrease in more than two years, as a quirk in the calendar
pushed results of Labor Day promotions into August’s results.
Automakers, including  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,
said early this month that the government shutdown posed a
threat to an already slow economic recovery.  “Industrywide, we’re definitely seeing a slowdown in
October,” Krafcik said.  Budget Impasse  U.S. Senate Democratic and Republican leaders were working
on the details of an agreement late yesterday to end the partial
government shutdown and raise the debt ceiling before Oct. 17.
The  House of Representatives  made its own proposal today, which
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  rejected.  Hyundai at the start of the month announced a program to
allow federal workers affected by the shutdown to defer loan and
lease payments to the Seoul-based automaker.  “We have already had requests from over a thousand people
to have their payments deferred,” Krafcik told Bloomberg
Television. “That’s a much stronger uptake than we thought. It
makes us happy. It means we’re making a difference, but it does
give an indication of just how deep and serious the issues
are.” Krafcik also mentioned the requests from federal workers
in a post on Twitter.  Toyota Loans  Toyota Financial Services,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s U.S.
automotive lending unit, late yesterday said it too would
provide “relief” on loan and lease payments for federal
employees for as long as three months.  “The government shutdown has placed an unanticipated
financial strain on many individuals and families,” Al Smith,
group vice president of Toyota Financial Services, said in a
statement. Both Toyota Financial Services and Lexus Financial
Services “are pleased to be able to provide some flexibility to
our customers affected by this situation,” he said.  Toyota hasn’t observed changes in consumer confidence so
far and the company’s production and sales operations haven’t
been affected by the shutdown, said Carly Schaffner, a
spokeswoman for the company’s U.S. unit. Processing of vehicles
built in Japan through U.S. ports also hasn’t been delayed, she
said.  Hyundai Motor’s U.S. sales unit is in Costa Mesa,
California. The company rose 0.6 percent to 263,500 won at the
close in Seoul. Hyundai has gained 21 percent this year,
compared with a 2.2 percent increase for Korea’s benchmark Kospi
index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  