-- Oi-Like Imbroglios Targeted by Takeover Panel: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   G i u l i a   C a m i l l o   a n d   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-10-14T20:46:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/oi-like-imbroglios-targeted-by-takeover-panel-corporate-brazil.html
Brazil ’s stock exchange is winning
support for a proposal to create a takeover panel to speed up
conflict resolution after deals as large as Oi SA’s $3.52
billion takeover of Brasil Telecom Participacoes SA were held up
for four years.  The panel, modeled after the U.K.’s Panel on Takeovers and
Mergers, would be an independent body funded by companies with a
goal of insuring fair treatment to all shareholders. Members
would have 10 days to rule on a deal. The Brazilian securities
regulator, or CVM, has agreed to uphold all panel decisions.  The initiative will help improve  corporate governance  in
Brazilian equity markets after minority investors unsuccessfully
filed complaints against deals including  Petroleo Brasileiro
SA (PETR3) ’s $70.3 billion share sale in 2010 and Oi’s 2009 acquisition.
The last big step Brazil took to protect investors was in 2000
with the so-called Novo Mercado, a set of rules such as one-share, one-vote that helped spur a record 64 initial share
offerings in 2007.  “Brazil was the pioneering country in terms of taking an
innovative approach through the Novo Mercado; in the last few
years, Brazil hasn’t enjoyed quite as high a reputation with
corporate governance issues,” said Daniel Blume, senior policy
analyst within the Organization for Economic Co-operation and
Development’s corporate affairs division in Paris. “It’s a
question of whether Brazil becomes seen as a leading market or
whether it continues as it has been.”  No Poison Pills  To subscribe to the takeover panel, companies must give up
so-called poison pills, a method used by boards to prevent a
takeover bid, and offer to buy minority investors out at the
highest price of the previous 12 months when stakes of 20
percent to 30 percent are sold.  The panel would approve takeover terms before they are
publicly announced, reducing the chances of conflict, said Joao
Nogueira Batista, the chief executive officer of the takeover
committee in Brazil. Batista, a former chief financial officer
at Petrobras, is a former president of the institute of  investor
relations  and vice president of the Brazilian institute of
corporate governance.  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) , the operator of the Sao Paulo exchange, was
the first panel adherent. Additional subscriptions are expected
by year’s end, Batista said.  Much Faster  One company considering membership is  Valid Solucoes (VLID3)  e
Servicos de Seguranca em Meios de Pagamento e Identificacao SA,
which offers services in identification systems and payments.
The biggest advantage is that corporate reorganizations would be
approved much faster, said Rita Carvalho, Valid’s financial and
investor relations manager.  “The panel’s proposal will speed up corporate
restructuring, as CVM will exempt companies that have the
panel’s stamp of approval from further review,” Carvalho said
in e-mailed response to questions.  The plan to create the mergers and acquisitions committee,
known as CAF, came in response to a 2009 CVM request for self-regulation in mergers and acquisitions, Batista said. The panel
sponsors include  Capital Markets  Investors Association, known as
Amec, the Brazilian Institute of Corporate Governance, Capital
Markets Association, known as Anbima, and BM&FBovespa.  Companies would be in a better position to attract foreign
investment because the move would show commitment to good
governance, said Eduardo Centola, head of investment banking and
partner at Banco Modal SA in  Sao Paulo .  “There has to be some kind of reward from the market for
companies that have this stamp from CAF,” said Centola, a
former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executive. “When capital
markets start heating up again, these are the companies that
will be much better perceived by foreign investors.”  Investor Criticism  When Oi decided five years ago to acquire Brasil Telecom
for 5.86 billion reais, minority investors repeatedly rejected
the exchange ratios offered. The dispute over the corporate
restructuring of Oi dragged on for four years until majority
shareholders were authorized to vote on the matter and outvoted
the minority shareholders that had been holding up the process.  Oi’s recently announced merger with Portugal Telecom SGPS
SA is the most recent target of investor criticism because Oi
controlling shareholders, the Jereissati and Andrade-Gutierrez
families, will dump $2 billion of debt into the new entity in
exchange for control. Oi gained 5.9 percent to 4.33 reais today
in Sao Paulo trading and it’s down 50 percent this year.
Portugal Telecom rose 4 percent to 3.65 euros in Lisbon,
reducing the year-to-date drop to 2.6 percent.  CAF is facing challenges similar to those when the Novo
Mercado listing was introduced in 2000, Batista said.  Natural Path  Toll-road operator  CCR SA (CCRO3)  was the first company to sign up
for the Novo Mercado in 2002. This year, the Novo Mercado
includes 130 companies.  “Everything that’s new is difficult,” Batista said in
interview at his Sao Paulo office. “The pressure should come
from investors.”  As a new and untested proposal, CAF is still little known
to funds and companies. The takeover panel is organizing
meetings with investors and companies, including an Oct. 29
seminar organized by Amec, a group of the biggest funds in
Brazil, to discuss minority investor topics.  “For companies listed in Novo Mercado and for IPOs, it’s a
natural path to adhere to CAF to gain the trust of investors,”
said Eduardo Boccuzzi, a partner at Boccuzzi Advogados
Associados and president of the oversight council at Apimec,
Brazil’s analysts association. “The subscription is a signal of
fair play from controllers. The adherent company shares should
go up and you might have funds that invest only in companies
with the CAF seal, like with the Novo Mercado today.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net ;
Giulia Camillo in Sao Paulo at 
 gcamillo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  