-- Hollywood Agency Helps Farmiga, Michael Hall on Charity
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2013-10-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/hollywood-manager-nudges-farmiga-michael-hall-to-charity.html
Hollywood manager  Jon Rubinstein 
encourages clients to give back when they’re off the set.  His  Authentic Talent & Literary Management  in  Los Angeles 
and  New York  has made social action and charity part of its
mission statement. His roster includes Vera Farmiga (“Up in the
Air”), Michael C. Hall (“Dexter”) and America Ferrera (“Ugly
Betty”).  A CrossFit enthusiast, Rubinstein talked about his agency’s
dual mission over lunch at  Bloomberg News  headquarters in New
York  Cole: What’s a typical day like for you?  Rubinstein: I do CrossFit training six or seven days a
week. I read the New York Times every day. A lot of stuff shows
up on my Facebook.com and Twitter.com feeds.  Cole: Why did you point your agency toward charity?  Rubinstein: I wanted to do something that had some impact,
and I saw my friends and my colleagues that worked in
entertainment who just got burned out.  Everybody goes in with a lot of passion and inspiration.
Five years later they’re making money, but they’re asking “What
am I doing?”  Cole: What shaped you?  Rubinstein: I’ve studied Buddhism for years and meditated,
and I have a lot of interest in the world of spirituality and
self-development, personal growth. I saw that I exist on the
planet to make an impact.  Even Tortillas  One of my teachers said everybody loves something, even if
it’s just tortillas, and he said everybody’s heart is moved by
something.  Cole: How do you help a client make a decision?  Rubinstein: Vera Farmiga directed, co-wrote and starred in
“Higher Ground,” a movie about a woman’s search for religion
or spirituality. She said she wanted to show this process with
some love, not with the usual judgment, so she made a movie.  Cole: What was your role?  Rubinstein: I said you could direct this, and she said no
that’s a lot of work. Then she thought about it. She brought in
the original writer of the book. I found producers and a
financier. She was pregnant with her second child. It was a
crazy experience, and we made it!  Cole: Some people say Hollywood isn’t as generous as it
should be.  Rubinstein: A lot of people that I encounter in the
entertainment business are generous. If you look at any agency,
United Talent Agency Inc., Creative Artists Agency LLC, they
have foundations, and they do extraordinary work.  Toronto Film  Cole: You went to the Toronto Film Festival. What did you
like?  Rubinstein: I went there to see “Only Lovers Left Alive”
which Tom Hiddleston stars in, and it’s a great movie.
Everybody’s talking about “12 Years A Slave,” and I think
Chiwetel Ejiofor is one of the greatest actors on the planet. I
just saw him in his play in  London , which is called “A Season
in the Congo,” and he was just breathtaking.  Cole: Will the Internet become a major distributor of
films?  Rubinstein: Yes, it’s going to be huge. I just bought a
television set, and YouTube.com is built in to it. You can look
up a YouTube video on my phone, and it just instantly appears on
the television. It’s ridiculous, and some of it is 30 seconds of
a cat on a skateboard, right?  (Patrick Cole is a reporter for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are his own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Lance Esplund  on art,  James S.
Russell  on architecture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 Mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  