-- Tombini Says Brazil May Extend Currency Intervention to 2014
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2013-10-14T12:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/tombini-says-brazil-may-extend-currency-intervention-into-2014.html
Brazil ’s central bank may extend
into 2014 a program of currency swaps and credit line auctions
as analysts forecast the real will depreciate this year on
signals the U.S. will wind down its monetary stimulus.  “The program has proved successful in curbing volatility
and could be extended beyond year end if necessary,” central
bank President Alexandre Tombini said about the currency
intervention in prepared remarks for an Oct. 12 speech before
the International Monetary and Financial Committee.  The central bank said Aug. 22 it would carry out currency
swap auctions of $500 million a day on Mondays, Tuesdays,
Wednesdays and Thursdays, as well as credit line auctions of $1
billion a day on Fridays. The $60 billion program was scheduled
to run through Dec. 31.  The real, which weakened to almost a five-year low before
the intervention started, has gained 12 percent since Aug. 22,
the best performance among global currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The real rose for a fourth straight day and gained
0.1 percent to 2.1744 per dollar at 9:10 a.m. local time.  The real will weaken to 2.3 a dollar by the end of 2013,
according to analysts polled on Oct. 4 by the central bank.  The seven major Latin American currencies tracked by
Bloomberg have depreciated this year as investors exit  emerging
markets  in anticipation of a U.S. Federal Reserve decision to
curtail monetary stimulus. Most U.S. policy makers said the
central bank was likely to reduce the pace of bond purchases
this year, according to minutes of the September meeting
released last week.  ‘Avert Panic’  “This is a message designed to avert panic among segments
that require hedging,”  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Banco
Espirito Santo, said by phone about Tombini’s speech.  Brazil’s government doesn’t have a specific target for the
 exchange rate , former Deputy Finance Minister Nelson Barbosa
said in a report presented at the International Monetary Fund’s
annual meetings last week by the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars.  “The government will intervene in the market but it has no
commitment with a specific value of the exchange rate,” he
wrote. “It intervenes to reduce volatility.”  The central bank board also is using  monetary policy  to
ensure a weaker real doesn’t fan inflation, Tombini said in the
transcript of his speech, which was  posted in English  on the
central bank website Oct. 11. Policy makers have raised the
benchmark Selic rate in the past five meetings to 9.5 percent.  “Monetary policy responded firmly to inflationary
pressures since the beginning of 2013, first through
communication and then raising the policy rate since April,”
according to the speech. “Monetary policy is contributing to
making inflation retreat and limiting FX pass-through.”  Annual inflation  slowed to 5.86 percent in September from
6.09 percent the prior month. Policy makers target 4.5 percent
inflation, plus or minus two percentage points.  Tombini’s speech was on behalf of Brazil, Cape Verde,
 Dominican Republic , Ecuador, Guyana,  Haiti ,  Nicaragua ,  Panama ,
Suriname, Timor-Leste and  Trinidad and Tobago .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  