-- Moscow Police Detain Hundreds After Worst Rioting in 3 Years
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-10-14T14:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/moscow-police-detain-hundreds-after-worst-rioting-in-three-years.html
Moscow police  detained hundreds of
people after the murder of a Russian man provoked the worst
nationalist violence in almost three years in the capital.  The riot, which state news service RIA Novosti said injured
six policemen, began yesterday in the Biryulyovo residential
district after a 25-year-old local inhabitant was allegedly
stabbed to death Oct. 10 by a person born in Central Asia or
 Russia ’s Caucasus region. About 1,200 people were rounded up
today during a police raid on a vegetable storage facility that
was ransacked along with a shopping center, RIA reported.  President  Vladimir Putin  faces a growing challenge from
nationalist groups as tensions grow between ethnic Russians and
migrant laborers. In December 2010, hundreds of riot police were
deployed to quell nationalist riots near Red Square, which were
provoked by the shooting of a soccer fan by migrants from
Russia’s southern Muslim provinces.  “This is a major warning bell because for the first time
in Moscow, you’ve had severe unrest involving not just soccer
fans but local residents too,” Alexander Verkhovsky, head of
the Moscow-based  SOVA  research center, which tracks xenophobia,
said today by phone.  Thousand People  A thousand people participated in the unrest yesterday and
380 were detained, Vasily Oleynik, deputy head of Moscow’s
regional safety department, was cited as saying by RIA. Interior
Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev held an emergency meeting after
the clashes, Moscow police said today on their website.  Mayor  Sergei Sobyanin ’s office is conducting a review of
the vegetable storehouse and will also investigate other markets
in Moscow, according to a  statement  on its website. Police have
been ordered to find the killer as soon as possible and Putin
has been informed about the situation, the mayor’s office said.  Opposition leader Alexey Navalny, who challenged Putin ally
Sobyanin for Moscow mayor in last month’s elections with
promises to rein in migration, called for the city’s police
chief to resign and urged authorities to impose tougher visa
restrictions for workers from Central Asia.  “Sobyanin should come himself to Biryulyovo and address
the crowd,” Navalny said on his  Twitter Inc.  account. “We need
a root-and-branch reform of the courts, police and visa regime
with Central Asia.”  Migrant Magnet  Footage  of the riot showed protesters shouting “Russians
for Russia, Moscow for Muscovites” and holding Russian flags.
Moscow, the biggest city in the former  Soviet Union , is a magnet
for Russian speakers seeking a better life and improved job
prospects, resulting in tension with Muscovites.  The authorities released all but 72 people today, with two
facing possible criminal charges, RIA reported, citing the
Moscow police.  “The pogrom in Biryulyovo isn’t an ethno-cultural
conflict,” billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , who ran for president
against Putin in March last year, said on his blog today. “The
citizens have long been pushed away from finding solutions to
their own problems, and they’ve lost faith in the court and law-enforcement systems.”  While Sobyanin has targeted illegal migrants through police
raids, Navalny accuses municipal authorities of employing
migrants as cleaners and plumbers to pocket as much as half of
their wages. He proposed a ban on migrant labor at state
agencies, including for contractors who employ them.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  