-- OTP Falls Most in 3 Weeks on Mortgage Concern: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-10-14T15:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/otp-bank-falls-most-in-week-on-mortgage-concern-budapest-mover.html
OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
lender, fell the most in three weeks on concern banks will bear
the cost of mortgage rescue plans and as a stalemate among U.S.
lawmakers on the debt limit cut appetite for riskier assets.  The stock slid 2.2 percent, the most since Sept. 20, to
4,265 forint by the close in Budapest. More than 394,000 shares
changed hands, or 36 percent of the three-month average. The
benchmark BUX  index , in which the bank has the largest
weighting, retreated 0.5 percent. OTP has declined 15 percent
since Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government said on July 16
it plans to “phase out” foreign-currency mortgages.  Lenders have until Nov. 1 to present debt-relief proposals
for remaining borrowers. The cabinet is “disappointed” by a
lack of determination to meet the deadline and stands ready to
present its own plan, Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga  was cited as
saying in Nepszabadsag newspaper on Oct. 12. Emerging-market
stocks fell from a four-month high as Senate leaders struggled
to reach an agreement on how to end the fiscal impasse.  “Global markets weakened on disappointment that there was
no deal on  U.S. debt ,” Zsolt Balasy, a Budapest-based analyst
at MKB Bank Zrt., a unit of  Bayerische Landesbank , said by
phone. “The Hungarian market is an underperformer in the region
as it’s suffering from the government’s unorthodox policies and
the foreign-currency mortgage rescue plan is hanging over OTP as
a risk.”  Hungary was stripped of its investment-grade credit rating
in 2011 after allowing borrowers to repay debt at below market-exchange rates, giving banks a $1.7 billion loss.  ‘Uncoordinated’ Steps  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  told Orban not
to take “uncoordinated” steps on converting home loans,
Austrian newspaper  Der Standard  reported today, citing Austrian
central bank governor Ewald Nowotny. Hungary pledged to
“coordinate” its policies after the warning, the newspaper
cited Nowotny as saying.  The government may impose a further round of utility-price
cuts before next year’s elections after a 10 percent reduction
implemented in January and another 11 percent planned for
November, Varga said in the Nepszabadsag interview.  Magyar Telekom Nyrt., the Hungarian unit of  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) , which started selling electricity and gas to
households three years ago, lost as much as 2.4 percent to 287
forint, the lowest on record, before closing at 293 forint.  The forint fell 0.5 percent to 296.4 per euro, extending
its decline in 2013 to 1.7 percent, the fourth-best performance
among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  