-- Palm Oil Declines for Second Day as Demand From India May Slow
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-10-14T04:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/palm-oil-declines-for-second-day-as-demand-from-india-may-slow.html
Palm oil fell for a second day on
speculation that  India  slowed purchases as the world’s biggest
consumer harvests a record oilseed crop.  The contract for delivery in December dropped 0.4 percent
to 2,370 ringgit ($746) a metric ton on the Bursa Malaysia
Derivatives at the midday break in  Kuala Lumpur . Palm for
physical delivery in October was at 2,390 ringgit on Oct. 11,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  India’s imports probably fell 22 percent to 650,000 tons in
September from a year earlier, according to a Bloomberg survey.
The Solvent Extractors’ Association of India will release data
today. India is on the cusp of the biggest oilseed crop ever as
production of soybeans and peanuts increases, according to Atul Chaturvedi, chief executive officer of Adani Wilmar Ltd.  “India’s harvest is on and we expect a larger crop in the
coming days,” Prathamesh Mallya, an analyst at AnandRathi
Commodities Ltd., said by phone from Mumbai. “Domestic
availability of the soybean crop will ensure that demand for
palm remains lower when compared to the same time last year.”  Palm oil  futures advanced 3.3 percent last week, the
biggest increase since the five days ended Aug. 16. Financial
markets are closed in Malaysia tomorrow for a public holiday.  “Players are reluctant to take up new positions,” ahead
of the holiday, said Donny Khor, deputy director of futures and
commodities at RHB Investment Bank Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “Some
Malaysian traders are taking this opportunity to go on leave.”  Soybeans for delivery in November gained 0.5 percent to
$12.73 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, while soybean oil
for December climbed 0.7 percent to 40.55 cents a pound.  Refined palm oil for January delivery gained 1 percent to
5,676  yuan  ($928) a ton on the  Dalian Commodity Exchange  and
 soybean oil  was little changed at 7,062 yuan a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  