-- Penn State’s Tab for Sandusky Scandal Exceeds $50 Million
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-10-14T21:19:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/penn-state-says-managing-sandusky-scandal-has-cost-50-5-million.html
Pennsylvania  State University has
spent $50.5 million to manage the fallout from the scandal
provoked by former assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky’s
sexual abuse of young boys.  Updated figures released today on the university’s website
include $6.8 million in expenses for the legal defense of former
school officials, including ex-President Graham Spanier, who is
charged with covering up allegations against Sandusky, and $1.9
million for an independent monitor for its athletics program.
The accounting is current through July 31, according to the
website.  Sandusky, 69, a former football coach, was sentenced in
October 2012 to at least 30 years in prison for sexually abusing
boys over a 15-year period, sometimes on the school’s campus in
State College, Pennsylvania. The case and ensuing scandal led to
firings of Spanier and legendary football coach Joe Paterno, who
died in January 2012. Spanier and two other school officials
face related criminal charges.  The expenses also include $12 million for the first of five
installments on a $60 million fine imposed last year by the
National Collegiate Athletic Association; $7.1 million for legal
and consulting services to the school’s board of trustees and
$11.5 million for the university’s legal defense paid to firms
including Feinberg Rozen LLP, the settlement negotiator between
the school and Sandusky victims.  The school spent an additional $2.1 million on other
institutional expenses, according to the report.  Penn State is among four universities in Pennsylvania that
receives public funding but isn’t owned by the state. The school
received about $280 million from the state last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  