-- Peugeot Said to Consider Stake Sale to Dongfeng, French
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-10-14T15:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/peugeot-reaffirms-partner-talks-to-raise-investment-funds.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  is considering
stake sales to  Dongfeng Motor Corp. (489)  and the French government to
shore up funding as car sales in Europe plunge to a 20-year low,
people familiar with the matter said.  Peugeot’s board will discuss a capital increase at a
scheduled meeting on Oct. 22, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the gathering is private. The stock fell
9.1 percent, the biggest drop in more than two years, after
Reuters first reported details of the possible sale.  The French government is monitoring talks with Dongfeng and
may participate should the Chinese automaker decide in favor of
a purchase, two of the people said. The negotiations are at an
early stage and not expected to be completed for several weeks,
they said.  A capital increase would provide Peugeot with needed cash
and help in efforts to expand outside  Europe , where the auto
market is set to shrink a sixth straight year. Peugeot, which
reported a first-half  operating loss  in its automotive unit of
510 million euros ($692 million), is cutting 11,200 French jobs
and closing a factory outside Paris. The automaker has pledged
to reduce its cash-consumption rate by 50 percent in 2013 after
burning through 3 billion euros last year.  Peugeot is “examining industrial and commercial
developments with different partners, including the financial
implications that would result from them,” the Paris-based
automaker said in a statement today, without providing details.
“None of these projects has reached maturity yet.”  State Influence  Dongfeng plans to buy a 30 percent stake for 10 billion
 yuan  ($1.63 billion),  China  Business News reported Oct. 8,
citing an unidentified official from the Chinese company.
Peugeot intends to sell 3 billion euros of new stock, with
Dongfeng and the French government taking matching holdings,
Reuters reported Oct. 12, citing three unidentified people.  “Shareholders wouldn’t like to see the state involved as
it would limit the scope of possible layoffs or restructuring
quite a bit,” said Sascha Gommel, an analyst at Commerzbank AG
who has an “add” recommendation on the shares. “The market
wouldn’t like that.”  Peugeot shares  dropped  1.12 euros to 11.25 euros, the most
since Aug. 18, 2011, as of the close of trading today in Paris.
The stock has more than doubled this year, valuing the French
manufacturer at 3.99 billion euros.  Protecting Jobs  Dongfeng, which already operates three assembly plants with
Peugeot in China, said last month it’s doing “preliminary
research” on an investment in the French automaker. Peugeot
said in September it was examining all options to deepen the
partnership, with a focus first on industrial cooperation. The
Chinese company declined today to comment on the talks.  A government holding would increase the state’s ability to
protect jobs. France already has one seat on the Peugeot board
as part of a deal to guarantee 7 billion euros in bonds sold by
the automaker’s banking arm.  “The state remains interested in Peugeot,” Finance
Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said today on France Inter radio,
without providing details. “What has to come before everything
else is the industrial strategy.”  A stake purchase could face legal hurdles as well as
resistance from the two largest investors, the Peugeot family
and  General Motors Co. (GM)  Under French law, anyone buying a 30
percent holding or more in a listed company must make a tender
offer for the remaining shares, the French market regulator said
last week.  Family Divided  Peugeot family members, who own 25.5 percent of the
carmaker, are divided over whether to participate in a capital
increase, a person close to the family said. Some don’t want to
invest additional funds in the automaker, while others would
like to spend money to maintain some level of control even if
the holding is still diluted, the person said.  GM, which owns the Opel and Vauxhall brands and is
struggling to become profitable in Europe, bought a  7 percent
stake  in Peugeot last year as part of an alliance to develop
cars and jointly purchase parts. Peugeot and GM have since then
started their first joint purchasing negotiations and announced
plans to produce vehicles for one another.  The Detroit-based carmaker has the option to terminate the
alliance in the event of a change in control of the French
manufacturer, according to Peugeot’s annual regulatory filings.  Dire Situation  Peugeot  investors  voted in April to give management the
option of issuing new shares in the company, or securities
convertible to stock, worth as much as 50 percent of the capital
as of March 12, 2013. Current owners have a pre-emptive right to
purchase shares in any increase exceeding 20 percent.  “The situation is dire,”  David Arnold , a London-based
industry specialist at  Barclays Capital , said in an e-mail to
clients today. “It’s clear that cash is now much more of a drag
and the company realizes that it cannot starve the business of
investment or it will lose out long term.”  Peugeot management held its final meeting with unions last
week over an offer to increase French production and investment
over the next three years in exchange for reduced overtime pay
and a  salary freeze . Unions have until Oct. 22 to decide whether
to back the plan.  A share sale to an outside investor is contingent on the
success of those talks, said Christian Lafaye, head of the FO
union at Peugeot. Five of the six main unions are likely to back
the proposal, a person familiar said. The CGT will “absolutely
not” support the plan, Jean-Pierre Mercier, a CGT official,
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  