-- Pound Rises From Near 4-Week Low on Growth Bets; SocGen Says Buy
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-10-14T15:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/pound-is-0-3-from-6-week-low-versus-euro-before-inflation-data.html
The pound strengthened from near a
four-week low against the dollar before reports this week that
economists said will add to signs Britain’s growth is gaining
momentum, boosting demand for the currency.  Sterling rose the most in a week versus the greenback as
talks on raising the U.S. debt ceiling hit an impasse before the
government’s borrowing authority lapses on Oct. 17. Investors
should buy the pound and sell U.K. government bonds as the
economy recovers,  Societe Generale  SA said. The U.K. jobless
rate was 7.7 percent in the quarter through August, matching the
lowest level since 2009, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before the report is released on Wednesday.  “Unemployment is the most important piece of U.K. data
this week,” said  Steve Barrow , head of Group-of-10 research at
Standard Bank Plc in  London . “We could easily see the rate
falling to 7.6 percent. The risk-reward is to be long of
sterling into that data,” he said, referring to a bet the
currency will strengthen.  The pound rose 0.3 percent to $1.5999 at 4:24 p.m. London
time after sliding to $1.5914 pence on Oct. 10, the lowest level
since Sept. 18. Today’s gain is the biggest since Oct. 7. The
U.K. currency was little changed at 84.86 pence per euro.  The premium for options granting the right to sell sterling
in three months, versus those granting the right to buy,
narrowed to the least since January. The three-month 25-delta
risk reversal was at minus 0.63 percentage point after reaching
minus 0.61, a level not seen since Jan. 16.  Unemployment Rate  The  unemployment data , as measured by International Labour
Organization methods, will match the reading from Sept. 11, when
it unexpectedly dropped to 7.7 percent, analysts said. The rate
hasn’t been lower since the three months through May 2009. The
Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee has said officials
would reassess their policy stance if it falls to 7 percent.
Other reports this week may show retail sales increased in
September and  home prices  rose in August.  The pound appreciated 2.9 percent in the past three months,
the best performer after  New Zealand ’s dollar among 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes amid signs U.K. growth is gaining momentum. The
euro strengthened 0.8 percent, while the  U.S. dollar  weakened
3.5 percent.  U.S. Deadlock  U.S. Republicans and Democrats were still in talks to
resolve a fiscal stalemate and reopen the government before it
exhausts its $16.7 trillion borrowing authority. Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  said he would negotiate further with Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell  after a phone call between the two failed
to produce a breakthrough.  The 10-year gilt yield was little changed at 2.74 percent
after falling to 2.65 percent on Oct. 9, the lowest level since
Aug. 27. The price of the 2.25 percent bond due in September
2023 was 95.745.  Yields on U.K. government debt are set to rise quicker than
their U.S. or euro-area equivalents as Britain’s economy
recovers and amid rising inflation expectations, according to
Kit Juckes, a global strategist at Societe Generale in London,
wrote in a note to clients.  “That will put pressure on the MPC, which will be
reflected in markets pricing in faster/more rate hikes,
demanding a bigger  risk premium  to hold gilts, while also
boosting sterling,” Juckes wrote.  Home prices increased 3.4 percent in August from a year
earlier, after climbing 3.3 percent the previous month,
according to a separate Bloomberg survey of economists before
the data is released tomorrow. A report on Thursday will show
retail sales excluding fuel rose 0.3 percent last month, after
sliding 1 percent in August, the economists predict.  U.K. gilts handed investors a loss of 3.2 percent this year
through Oct. 11, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes.
Treasuries fell 2.6 percent and German bunds dropped 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  