-- Power Deficit Attracts Johnson Controls India Venture
-- B y   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e
-- 2013-10-14T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/power-deficit-attracts-johnson-controls-india-venture.html
Amara Raja Batteries Ltd. (AMRJ) , backed by
the largest U.S. auto-parts maker, is setting up a plant to make
batteries for home backup power systems to revive profit growth
that’s slowing amid weakening car sales in India.  The company, 26 percent owned by  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) , is
targeting a fivefold jump in revenue from selling backup power
batteries in the next three years, Chief Financial Officer K. Suresh said in an interview in Hyderabad. It will build a
factory in the southern state of Andhra Pradesh, which will
start making the product by March 2016, he said.  India’s chronic power shortages are an opportunity for
Amara Raja to reduce its reliance on automotive batteries. The
company will vie with competitors including the local unit of
 Schneider Electric SA (SU)  for a share of a market for inverters that
Frost & Sullivan  estimates  will more than triple to $1.4 billion
in the seven years through March 2017.  “With the power deficit growing every day, the demand for
inverters will only keep rising and very soon, every household
will require one,” said Suresh. “We expect inverters to be our
fastest-growing segment.”  Power shortages continue to plague India as inadequate
availability of fuel, losses at state-owned distribution
companies and delays in government approvals discourage private
investments in utilities. Peak electricity supply fell 4.6
percent short of demand in the six months ended September,
according to the  Central Electricity Authority .  Home UPS  Inverters, an electrical power converter that changes
direct current from a battery to alternating current, have
gained popularity in India for use in homes over the past decade
as they are silent and convenient to use.  Amara Raja will have to compete with  Exide Industries Ltd. (EXID) ,
India’s biggest maker of automotive batteries, Luminous Power
Technologies Pvt., in which Schneider Electric bought a 74
percent stake in 2011, and Su-Kam Power Systems Ltd.  “To replicate the kind of brand recall Amara Raja has in
the auto segment in the inverter segment won’t be easy,” said
 Arun Kejriwal , director, Kejriwal Research & Investments Pvt.
“It will require a sustained marketing push, which will come at
a cost.”  The maker of Amaron brand of batteries currently buys
inverter batteries from small manufacturers and sells them under
its brand name, Suresh said. It will spend 1.5 billion rupees
($24 million) on the factory, he said.  Margin Benefit  “Right now, we are only participating in the distribution
margin,” said Suresh. “Once I start manufacturing, I would
also be participating in the manufacturing margin.”  The business has  operating profit margin  of about 4.5
percent and that will increase to double digits once the company
starts producing on its own, he said.  Operating profit margins from the business can be about 15
percent with its own manufacturing, said Rajasekhar R., an
analyst with Cholamandalam Securities Ltd.  Amara Raja sells its batteries in more than 21,000 retail
stores and has expanded its PowerZone outlets to 1,100 outlets
in rural and semi-urban areas, according to its annual report.  “It’s a strong growth area considering the power shortages
prevalent in the country,” said Mamta Verma, an analyst at DC
 India  Research LLP. “They already have a strong distribution
network which will help them gain market share.”  Earnings Outlook  Annual profit and sales at Amara Raja, which has partnered
Johnson Controls since 1997, are expected to expand at a slower
pace for a second year in the 12 months ending March. Net income
will rise 22 percent to 3.5 billion rupees in the period,
according to the median of 22 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales will probably increase 21 percent.  Shares of Amara Raja have gained 28 percent in Mumbai
trading this year, compared with the 6.1 percent increase in the
benchmark S&P BSE Sensex.  Inverter batteries accounted for about 7 percent of Amara
Raja’s sales of 29.6 billion rupees in the year ended March. The
company targets the business to generate 10 billion rupees in
revenue in the 12 months ending March 2016, Suresh said.  The  company  gets 40 percent revenue from sale of batteries
to provide power backup to telecommunications towers,
uninterrupted power supply for computers and inverter batteries.  The growth in the UPS business is slowing as it is linked
to government spending on e-governance, which is not taking
place, Suresh said. While addition of new mobile-phone towers
has slowed, there is demand for replacing diesel-powered
generators with batteries, he said.  Replacement Demand  Amara Raja, which gets more than half its revenue from the
automotive segment, is benefiting from demand for replacement
batteries.  Car sales  in India had surged in 2009 and 2010.  About 75 percent of its automotive battery sales comes from
the replacement market, Suresh said. Sales directly to
automakers fell 2 percent in the quarter ended June, he said.  India’s automakers’ body last month forecast the first
annual drop in passenger vehicle sales in more than a decade as
an economic slowdown damps demand for cars and SUVs.  Amara Raja plans to spend 5.1 billion rupees to expand its
automotive battery capacity, which will be available by the
quarter ending in September 2014, Suresh said.  “We expect things to look up in the auto industry by that
time,” said Suresh.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  