-- Puerto Rico’s First-Quarter Revenue Tally Exceeds Estimates
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   F e l i c e   M a r a n z
-- 2013-10-14T17:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/puerto-rico-s-first-quarter-revenue-collections-exceed-estimates.html
Puerto Rico collected $10.4 million
more revenue in the past three months than it counted on as the
self-governing commonwealth cracks down on tax cheats.  Governor Alejandro Garcia Padilla, 42, who took office in
January, increased taxes and implemented new ones to balance the
budget for the fiscal year that began July 1. The island, whose
credit rating is one step above junk, collected about $1.7
billion for its general fund from July through September. That’s
a 5.4 percent increase over the same period last year, according
to Treasury Secretary Melba Acosta.  “These results demonstrate progress on the fiscal
stabilization and responsibility measures this administration
has taken,” Acosta said in a statement. “We remain focused on
implementing fiscal oversight measures.”  Investors have been demanding additional yield to buy
Puerto Rico debt as an index that tracks the island’s economy
fell in August by 5.4 percent compared with the same month in
2012. That was the steepest drop since 2010.  Puerto Rico general-obligation bonds maturing July 2041
traded Oct. 11 with an average yield of 8.79 percent, or 4.5
percentage points more than top-rated munis with similar
maturity, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The bonds traded at
10.2 percent on Sept. 9, the highest since the debt first sold
in March 2012.  The commonwealth’s ability to raise taxes will help it meet
debt obligations, Richard Larkin, director of credit analysis
for Fairfield, Connecticut-based Herbert J. Sims & Co., said in
a report.  “States as a category have had the lowest default rates of
any municipal bond,” Larkin said. “Although Puerto Rico is not
a state, it has many of the same sovereign powers that a state
has, including the power to tax and legislate without
interference from a higher authority.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Felice Maranz in New York at 
 fmaranz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  