-- RBNZ’s Spencer Says Loan Limits May Ease Pressure on Kiwi Dollar
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-10-14T21:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/rbnz-s-spencer-says-loan-limits-may-ease-pressure-on-kiwi-dollar.html
Reserve Bank  of New Zealand Deputy
Governor Grant Spencer said mortgage-lending restrictions
introduced this month could ease upward pressure on the local
currency by reducing the magnitude of interest-rate increases.  To the extent that the restrictions “dampen overall demand
in the economy, they could also reduce the extent of interest-rate increases, and hence  exchange-rate  pressure, that may be
needed over the coming cycle,” Spencer said in a speech in
Auckland today, according to a text published on the Reserve
Bank’s  website . He reiterated that the RBNZ estimates the loan
limits are the equivalent of a 30 basis-point increase in the
official  cash rate .  The lending limits, which took effect Oct. 1, mean that
only one in 10 new mortgages issued by banks in  New Zealand  are
allowed to exceed 80 percent of a home’s purchase price. The
Reserve Bank introduced the limit in an attempt to cool the
housing market without raising rates from a record low and
denting an economic recovery.  New Zealand’s dollar was little changed after Spencer
spoke, trading at 83.57 U.S. cents as of 10:35 a.m. in
Wellington. The kiwi, which reached a 20-month high of more than
86 cents in April, has gained 8 percent against the greenback
since Aug. 30, threatening to curb export receipts.  Spencer said allowing house and construction prices to
spiral out of control “would risk spilling over into general
inflation and put upward pressure on  interest rates  and the
exchange rate.”  Housing ‘Imbalances’  “Current imbalances in the New Zealand housing market
present risks for both financial stability and price
stability,” Spencer said. “To reduce those risks will require
more responsive supply, as well as restraint on demand.”  Supply constraints in Auckland and earthquake-damaged
Christchurch are fueling a housing boom.  House prices  rose 8.4
percent in September from a year ago, with prices in the
Auckland region surging 13.6 percent, according to a government-owned property research company.  While estimating the impact of the new lending limits is
“complicated,” Spencer said they are likely to curb house
sales by 3 percent to 8 percent in the first year, and that
house-price inflation should be 1 percent to 4 percent lower.  New Zealand  house prices  are likely to “remain high on
most metrics,” so the lending restrictions shouldn’t materially
reduce the incentives to develop new residential property, he
said.  RBNZ Governor Graeme Wheeler has said the central bank is
likely to start raising borrowing costs next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  