-- U.S. Bill Supply at Eisenhower-Era Low Seen Bolstering Bonds
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-10-15T11:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/treasury-bill-supply-at-eisenhower-era-low-seen-bolstering-bonds.html
Lost amid concern that the U.S. is
headed toward a default is a fact that bulls say may help
underpin American debt prices: supply of the shortest-term
securities is shrinking.  Treasury bills  make up 13.2  percent  of the $11.6 trillion
in  marketable debt  outstanding, the smallest share since Dwight
Eisenhower was president in the 1950s and down from 34.4 percent
in 2008, according to Barclays Plc. The drop reflects efforts by
the government to take advantage of record-low interest rates by
selling more longer-term debt after the financial crisis,
pushing the average maturity of the Treasury’s debt to 5.4 years
from 4.1 years in early 2009.  The reduced supply of high-quality, short-term debt
combined with rising speculation that the government shutdown
will curb economic growth and lead the  Federal Reserve  to keep
up unprecedented stimulus may only enhance the appeal of the
securities once the specter of default passes. Rates on one-month bills jumped to 0.34 percent last week, from as low as
0.01 percent at the start of the month.  The selloff “begets opportunistic buying on the part of
Pimco,”  Bill Gross , the co-chief investment officer at  Newport
Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., said
in an Oct. 9 Bloomberg Television interview. “We’re picking up
pennies on the street. This is a particular penny that we think
is risk-free,” said Gross, whose company manages $1.97
trillion, including the world’s biggest bond fund.  Safe Capital  Bills, which have maturities of one year or less and are
considered a cash equivalent by investors, are increasingly
needed by banks and money funds as new regulations related to
the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act and rules from the Basel, Switzerland-based  Bank for International Settlements  require banks to hold
more capital that is considered safe.  Even with the U.S. in jeopardy of defaulting and facing a
possible downgrade, that demand wouldn’t likely weaken,
according to fixed-income strategists at New York-based JPMorgan
Chase & Co., the largest  U.S. bank  by assets.  “Most holders of Treasuries are not ratings-driven, and
this is certainly the case for the largest holders such as
central banks and commercial banks,” JPMorgan strategists led
by  Alex Roever  in  New York , said in an Oct. 10 report to
clients.  Debt Talks  U.S. Senate Democratic and Republican leaders said late
yesterday in  Washington  they were optimistic about ending a
partial government shutdown and preventing the nation from
breaching the debt ceiling on Oct. 17. The debt limit, now $16.7
trillion, has been raised 78  times  since 1960, according to the
Treasury department.  A deal under discussion would suspend the debt limit
through Feb. 15, 2014, fund the government through Jan. 15,
2014, and require a House-Senate conference on budget matters by
Dec. 15, according to a Senate source familiar with the talks,
who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss them.  “We are not really taking in consideration of default,”
 Deborah Cunningham , the head of money-market funds at
Pittsburgh-based Federated Investors Inc., the third-biggest
U.S. money fund manager, said in a telephone interview Oct. 10.
“We would love to not always have to be pushed in the
discussion to the 11th hour. I’m not surprised by it, but in the
end I’m not real worried about it either.”  Rising Rates  Bond markets in the U.S. were closed yesterday for the
Columbus Day holiday. One-month  Treasury bill rates  surged to
0.3397 percent on Oct. 8, the highest since October 2008, before
ending the week at 0.2484 percent amid speculation a compromise
would be found to allow at least a temporary lifting of the debt
ceiling. The rate was at 0.2434 as of 7:01 a.m. in New York.  Treasury 10-year note yields climbed three basis points
today to 2.72 percent.  The 10-year yield, used to help set  interest rates  for
everything from  car loans  to mortgages, remains below its 2013
closing high of 2.99 percent reached Sept. 5, before the Fed
announced on Sept. 18 it would maintain its $85 billion a month
of bond buying to stimulate the economy.  Treasury officials ramped up sales of bills after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 to inject cash
into the financial system amid rising demand for the safest of
assets. Bills, which made up 21.3 percent of government debt at
the end of fiscal 2006, jumped to 34.4 percent in 2008.  Funding Switch  As the crisis eased, the Treasury switched to selling more
longer-term debt to lock in record-low rates. The average
 maturity  of  U.S. debt  was 64.5 months in March, up from a 24-year low of 49.4 months in 2009.  The percentage of bills outstanding will fall to 12.4
percent in 2014 and 8.1 percent in 2023, according to
projections from the Treasury Department  presented  before its
most recent quarterly debt auction.  In the 1950s, yields on 10-year notes fell as low as 2.29
percent, monthly data collected by the Fed show, as unemployment
reached a nine-year high of 7.5 percent during the Eisenhower
administration and the U.S. paid for postwar reconstruction and
the beginnings of the space program.  The 1950s were “a period of normalization of interest
rates, after the Treasury and the Fed basically had pegged rates
up until 1951, suppressing them for 13 to 14 years to reduce the
cost of Treasury financing during the Great Depression,”  Jack Malvey , the chief global-markets strategist at Bank of New York
Mellon Corp., said in a telephone interview on Oct. 11. The firm
manages $1.3 trillion.  Maturing Bills  About $417 billion in short-term debt comes due between
Oct. 17 and Nov. 7. That includes $120 billion of bills maturing
on Oct. 17, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. An
additional $93 billion of bills are due on Oct. 24. On the last
day of the month, $150 billion needs to be paid back, including
two-year and five-year notes that have matured.  BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset manager, followed
 Fidelity Investments  and JPMorgan Chase on Oct. 11 in declaring
its money funds free of the bills that would be most affected by
a default. Investors pulled $28.7 billion from U.S. money funds
in the seven days ended Friday, according to the research firm
Crane Data LLC in Westborough,  Massachusetts .  Fahad Almubarak, the chief of  Saudi Arabia ’s central bank,
told reporters at a news conference on Oct. 11 after a speech in
Washington that “the U.S. current crisis will go away, and we
think its effect won’t be lasting on our investments.”  U.S. ‘Upheaval’  “The dollar is the reserve currency of the world and
Treasuries are the reserve asset of the world, despite the fact
that it is the U.S. going through this political and monetary
upheaval,” Simon Ballard, a senior credit strategist at
National Australia Bank Ltd. in  London , said in a telephone
interview on Oct. 2.  International Monetary Fund economists said a U.S. default
might “seriously” harm global activity, and cut forecasts for
this year and next to 2.9 percent and 3.6 percent, from the 3.1
percent and 3.8 percent estimated in July.  That may push more money into bills and bonds. JPMorgan’s
weekly  Treasury investor  sentiment index rose to 10 on Oct. 7,
from negative 9 in the month-earlier survey and as low this year
as negative 23 on May 27. The gauge, which reached a high of 34
in October 2010, subtracts the percentage of investors expecting
prices to fall from those expecting a rise.  “If we slide past the 17th without an agreement to
increase the debt limit, it will be bad for the economy for
sure, but it won’t mean a default,”  Jim Bianco , president of
Bianco Research LLC in  Chicago , said by telephone on Oct. 13.
“That would set up the most bullish scenario you can imagine
for Treasuries, which would be that the economy is collapsing
and the Fed is likely throwing even more money at it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  