-- Recession Odds Increase as Stalemate Persists, Roubini Says
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-10-14T17:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/recession-odds-increase-as-stalemate-persists-roubini-says.html
     Oct. 14 (Bloomberg) --The chance of a U.S.  recession  grows
every day officials in  Washington  fail to come up with a
solution to stave off a potential default and reopen the
government, according to  New York University ’s Nouriel Roubini.  President  Barack Obama  summoned the top four congressional
leaders to the White House today as lawmakers remain deadlocked
over how to end the partial government shutdown and prevent U.S.
borrowing authority from lapsing in three days. The government
has been partially closed since Oct. 1. Unless a deal is
reached, the government’s authority to borrow will reach its
limit on Oct. 17, according to the Treasury Department.  “There is uncertainty that is already affecting business,
investor and  consumer confidence , leading to less retail sales,
less  capital spending  by the corporate sector,” Roubini,
chairman of Roubini Global Economics LLC, said on Bloomberg
Radio’s “Hays Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays . “If we were to
reach the debt limit and have a technical default on Treasuries
and if the government shutdown were to go on for weeks to come,
then there will be a significant risk of a recession.”  A technical default that drags out would be a “disaster”
for financial markets, as well as a drag on growth in an economy
“that is barely growing right now at 1.5 percent,” said
Roubini, who predicted the 2008 financial crisis.  While investors have remained calm so far, the uncertainty
from the impasse may prompt overseas investors to diversify away
from U.S. dollar assets, weakening the currency and sending
borrowing costs higher, Roubini said.  Bill Rates  “The creditors of the  United States  are worried,” Roubini
said. “They have been telling the United States to get their
act together on their fiscal issues.”  Rates on Treasury bills maturing through the end of the
year rose last week as officials in Washington sought a short-term budget agreement that may push back the deadline for a
potential default by at least six weeks.  Rates on debt due on Nov. 29 rose 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 0.16 percent last week, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They were negative as recently as
Sept. 30. The Treasury market is closed today for the Columbus
Day holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  