-- Ortiz Grand Slam Helps Red Sox Rally Past Tigers 6-5 to Tie ALCS
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-14T05:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/red-sox-rally-for-6-5-win-over-tigers-to-tie-al-championship-1-1.html
David Ortiz’s eighth-inning grand
slam sparked the  Boston  Red Sox to a 6-5 victory against the
Detroit Tigers that tied the American League Championship Series
at one game apiece.  The Red Sox, who were held hitless until the sixth inning
and trailed 5-1 in the eighth last night at Boston’s Fenway
Park, pulled out the win on Jarrod Saltalamacchia’s run-scoring
single in the bottom of the ninth inning.  The comeback was set up by Ortiz, who hit a two-out grand
slam off Tigers reliever Joaquin Benoit. It was the first game-tying grand slam to come in the eighth inning or later in Major
League Baseball postseason history and prevented the Red Sox
from going 2-0 down as the best-of-seven series shifts to
 Detroit  for the next three games.  “We were in a struggle a little bit offensively,” Ortiz
said in a televised postgame interview. “We’re known for
swinging the bat pretty well and we needed it. We had a ballclub
that battled. We never gave up.”  MLB teams leading by five runs or more in a postseason game
had only lost 14 times in 473 previous instances, according to
the Elias Sports Bureau.  “I’ve seen some crazy things around this ballpark,” Red
Sox second baseman Dustin Pedroia said. “I don’t think we were
looking at the big picture. We were just trying to find a way
one pitch at a time. They pitched us so tough.”  A day after the Red Sox lost Game 1 at home 1-0 and didn’t
get a hit until the ninth inning, Boston’s bats were quieted
again last night by Tigers starter Max Scherzer, who struck out
13 over seven innings while allowing two hits.  Tigers’ Lead  Miguel Cabrera and Alex Avila each hit home runs off Red
Sox starting pitcher Clay Buchholz in the top of the sixth
inning as the Tigers opened a 5-0 lead.  Boston got its first hit in the bottom of the sixth inning,
when Shane Victorino singled with two outs and scored on
Pedroia’s double off the left field wall.  Pedroia also was part of Boston’s rally in the eighth,
coming through with a two-out single to load the bases after
Will Middlebrooks doubled and Jacoby Ellsbury walked.  “We were just trying to get the tying run to the plate and
luckily that was David,” Pedroia said. “I know he likes those
situations.”  Ortiz, known as “Big Papi,” then followed with his 15th
career postseason homer, sending the first pitch from Benoit
over the right-center field fence into the Boston bullpen. The
line drive just cleared the outstretched glove of Tigers right
fielder Torii Hunter, whose head was bloodied after he flipped
over the wall headfirst and landed on his back.  ‘Almost’  “He almost got that ball, but then he went in the
bullpen,” said Ortiz, Boston’s 37-year-old designated hitter.  Ortiz’s grand slam was the fourth in Red Sox postseason
history and the first since J.D. Drew hit one in Game 6 of the
2007 AL Championship Series against  Cleveland .  In the bottom of the ninth inning, Jonny Gomes led off with
an infield single, advanced to second on a throwing error and
moved to third on a wild pitch by Tigers reliever Rick Porcello.
Saltalamacchia followed with a sharp single through Detroit’s
drawn-in infield, becoming the first Red Sox catcher with a
game-ending hit in a postseason game since Carlton Fisk in Game
6 of the 1975 World Series.  “It doesn’t matter how long it takes as long as we get the
win,” Saltalamacchia said. “This city has been so resilient
and that’s how we play the game.”  The Tigers will host Game 3 tomorrow, with Game 4 scheduled
for the following day.  The National League Championship Series resumes today in
Los Angeles, where the Dodgers trail the St. Louis Cardinals
two-games-to-none after a pair of one-run losses in St. Louis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  