-- Reliance Profit Grows at Slowest in 4 Quarters on Refining
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   D e b j i t   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-10-15T10:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/reliance-profit-grows-at-slowest-in-four-quarters-on-refining.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owner of
the world’s biggest refinery complex, reported the slowest
profit growth in four quarters after refining margins declined.  Net income  rose 1.5 percent to 54.9 billion rupees ($894
million), or 17 rupees a share, in the three months ended Sept.
30, from 54.1 billion rupees, or 16.70 rupees, a year earlier,
according to a stock exchange filing yesterday. That beat the
54.2 billion-rupee median of 25  analysts’ estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales increased 15 percent to 1.04 trillion rupees.  The slowing pace of growth in earnings may impede
billionaire Chairman  Mukesh Ambani ’s plan to spend 1.5 trillion
rupees over the next three years to expand his energy-to-telecommunications empire. Gas production at Reliance’s biggest
field has declined for three years in a row and the Mumbai-based
company is struggling to bring new deposits in India to
production even as profits from refining crude oil have shrunk.  “This contraction in refining margins is likely to
continue in the near term as economies stay weak,” said D.K. Aggarwal, New Delhi-based chairman of SMC Investments & Advisors
Ltd., which manages $100 million of Indian shares. “It will
take at least a couple of quarters before we can see some
reversal in the earnings.”  The refiner’s  shares  declined 0.3 percent to 867.80 rupees
at the close in Mumbai, the first drop in three days. They’ve
increased 3.4 percent this year, compared with a 5.8 percent
gain in the benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex. (SENSEX)   Refining Earnings  The company  earned  $7.70 for every barrel of crude it
processed in the quarter, compared with $9.50 a barrel a year
earlier and $8.40 a barrel in the preceding three months, it
said in an e-mailed statement. Profit from turning Dubai crude
into diesel in  Singapore , an Asian benchmark, averaged $17.76 a
barrel in the quarter compared with $18.66 a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Reliance operates two refineries at Jamnagar in the western
state of Gujarat that can process a combined 1.24 million
barrels of crude daily. The plants are capable of turning
heavier oil grades, which are typically cheaper, into high-value
fuels.  Brent crude, a benchmark oil price used by much of the
world, averaged $109.65 a barrel in the three months ended Sept.
30, compared with $109.42 a year earlier.  Cash Reserves  The company had 905.4 billion rupees of cash and
equivalents deposited in banks and mutual funds and invested in
government securities as of Sept. 30, according to the company.
Total  debt  was at 839.8 billion rupees.  Gas production from the company’s KG-D6 block in the Bay of
Bengal dropped 52 percent to 94.6 billion cubic feet in the six
months ended Sept. 30, according to the company. Oil output fell
41 percent to 1 million barrels and condensate declined 50
percent to 130,000 barrels.  The company may also be compelled by the oil ministry to
continue selling KG-D6 gas at the current price of $4.2 per
million British thermal units until a production shortfall is
met or the government is satisfied output from the area wasn’t
reduced intentionally, according to a draft proposal seen by
Bloomberg News and confirmed by two government officials with
direct knowledge of the matter.  “Clarity on pricing is important for any responsible
decision making” on future investments, Reliance Chief
Financial Officer Alok Agarwal said at an earnings press
conference in Mumbai.  India ’s Cabinet in June approved a new formula for
calculating gas prices starting April 1, 2014, almost doubling
rates for the locally-produced fuel. The move prompted some
political parties to demand a review of the decision.  Reliance also operates stores that sell fruits and clothes
and plans to start a fourth-generation broadband service.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Debjit Chakraborty in New Delhi at 
 dchakrabor10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  