-- Rinehart Children on ‘Kamikaze Mission,’ Lawyer Says
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-10-14T06:56:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/rinehart-children-on-kamikaze-mission-with-suit-lawyer-says.html
An Australian judge ruled it too
risky to name an independent trustee for a $4 billion fund after
a lawyer said billionaire  Gina Rinehart ’s children, who proposed
the idea, were on a “Kamikaze mission” that could destroy her
 iron ore  company.  John Hancock and Bianca Rinehart’s attempt to replace their
mother as trust manager with a non-family member could
jeopardize an agreement with Rio Tinto Group on operations of
the Hope Downs mine in Western Australia, said David Studdy, a
lawyer for the billionaire’s Hancock Prospecting Pty.  “It would be imprudent to appoint an non-lineal trustee,”
Justice Paul Brereton said at the conclusion of a four-day trial
in Sydney to determine the replacement for Gina Rinehart in a
two-year-old lawsuit.  Gina Rinehart inherited iron ore and coal assets from her
father  Lang Hancock  and built them into an $18.4 billion
fortune, making her the 41st richest person in the world,
according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  Brereton said he’s left with two options, naming Bianca
Rinehart as trustee or choosing a corporate structure
recommended by Gina Rinehart’s youngest daughter Ginia, who has
sided with her mother through the two years of litigation over
the trust. Naming Bianca Rinehart and her sister Hope Welker Rinehart as co-trustees had “some potential,” but Hope Welker
Rinehart indicated she doesn’t want the job, Brereton said.  Further Difficulty  “It would be fraught with further difficulty to appoint
either John or Ginia, or them jointly,” Brereton said.  The judge gave lawyers until Oct. 18 to submit their
suggestions on replacements.  Ginia Rinehart has created JBHG Pty, which would be co-owned by the four children of Gina Rinehart and own the trust
assets. She proposed hiring an independent trustee company that
would name a sole director for JBHG who would manage the trust.  Such a structure would comply with the Rio agreement,
Ginia’s lawyer Richard McHugh said.  Appointing an independent trustee would put almost a
quarter of Hancock Prospecting’s shares outside of the family’s
direct control, breaching an accord with  Rio Tinto  that requires
the Rineharts to wholly own and control the company, Studdy
said.  The requirement was put in place to prevent Rio’s
competitors from gaining access to its infrastructure, including
a port and railway, Studdy told the court. A breach in the deal
could also mean Hancock Prospecting loses acess to the
infrastructure for projects beyond Hope Downs, he said.  “The damage would be enormous” and “irreparable,”
Studdy told the judge.  No Wish  John Hancock and Bianca Rinehart don’t wish for Hancock
Prospecting to lose its interest in the Hope Downs joint
venture, their lawyer Christopher Withers said.  There is no indication Rio would object if the shares are
held in trust for the family members and if it did, Hancock
Prospecting would have 95 days to fix any problem, Withers said.
The issue could be resolved with the appointment of Bianca
Rinehart in that time frame, he said.  The 95-day window doesn’t afford sufficient mitigation to
the risk involved, Brereton said.  John Hancock , Bianca Rinehart and Hope Welker Rinehart sued
in September 2011 accusing their mother of misconduct when she
sought to delay the trust’s vesting date from that month to
2068. Hope Welker Rinehart has withdrawn from the lawsuit.  The case is John Langley Hancock v. Gina Hope Rinehart.
2011/285907, New South Wales Supreme Court (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  