-- Rolls-Royce Motor Sees Sales Growth Through 2014 on Wraith Coupe
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2013-10-14T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/rolls-royce-motor-sees-sales-growth-through-2014-on-wraith-coupe.html
Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Ltd., the
ultra-luxury carmaker owned by  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ,
expects its first coupe and markets in Asia to drive sales
growth through next year.  The $234,000 Wraith coupe is fully sold out until May 2014,
Rolls-Royce Chief Executive Officer Torsten Mueller-Oetvoes said
in an interview in Tokyo. Next year will be “nice and
prosperous,” with the Wraith completing its first full year of
sales, he said.  Mueller-Oetvoes said he’s “cautiously optimistic” that
Rolls Royce sales in 2013 will top last year’s record of 3,575
vehicles, as it benefits from growth in Asian markets such as
Japan and  China . In Japan, where Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is
pushing to revive the economy, the automaker has expanded sales
by 25 percent in the first nine months of this year, according
to the  Japan  Automobile Importers Association.  “It’s delightful to see how the market here developed
particular to the Abenomics,” Mueller-Oetvoes said Oct. 11,
referring to the set of policies the current government
initiated to end deflation in the world’s third-largest economy.
“I must say thanks to Mr. Abe.”  For China, the automaker projects steady growth as the
average buyer there is younger than in the U.S., even as the
expansion isn’t as explosive as in the years before, he said.  Mueller-Oetvoes said Rolls-Royce is looking into the
possibility of developing a sport-utility vehicle, reiterating
comments made in September. The company has no firm plans yet on
whether to go ahead, he said.  “It is an interesting segment, which always steadily
grows” even in times of crises for certain markets, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Mukai in  Tokyo  at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  