-- Russia Holds Rates as Nabiullina Looks Past Slowing Economy
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-10-14T16:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/russia-holds-key-rate-at-5-5-as-inflation-drops-to-target-range.html
Russia’s central bank left its main
lending rate unchanged for a 13th month and removed a signal
that it will keep monetary policy on pause as  inflation  dropped
into its target range for the first time since August 2012.  Bank Rossii left the one-week auction rate, its benchmark
introduced last month, at 5.5 percent at a meeting in Moscow
today, the regulator said in a  statement  on its website. That
matched the forecast of all 23 economists in a Bloomberg  survey .  Policy makers led by Chairman  Elvira Nabiullina  said
consumer-price growth slowed to 6 percent as of Oct. 7, with the
economy showing signs of continued weakness. While removing
guidance from its statement that rates were at an appropriate
level for the “nearest future,” the central bank said it was
waiting for clearer signs that inflation expectations were
falling enough to meet medium-term targets.  “The central bank isn’t terribly concerned about the weak
pace of growth,” Vladimir Kolychev, chief economist for Russia
at VTB Capital in Moscow, said by phone. “Before the central
bank starts reducing rates, it needs to see a reduction in
inflation expectations.”  The ruble remained little changed against the dollar
following the announcement, trading at 32.2800 per U.S. currency
as of 6:48 p.m. in Moscow.  Russia ’s ruble bonds due in February
2027 fell, increasing the yield six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 7.73 percent.  Easing Ahead  The three-month MosPrime rate, which the largest Moscow
banks say they charge one another, may decline 17 basis points
over the next three months, according to forward-rate agreements
tracked by Bloomberg. That’s down from as much as 56 basis
points on Aug. 8.  Leaving the key rate unchanged, the central bank placed 500
billion rubles in three-month loans backed by non-marketable
assets, the regulator said in a separate website statement. All
the funds were placed at a cutoff rate of 5.76 percent while 25
banks submitted bids at yields ranging from the minimum rate of
5.75 percent to 6.65 percent. Demand reached 563 billion rubles.  The central bank last month increased its  inflation (RUCPIYOY)  target
for next year to 5 percent, plus or minus 1.5 percentage points,
from 4.5 percent, after the government backtracked on a plan to
halt all increases in regulated prices for utilities and
monopolies such as OAO Russian Railways.  Inflation Goals  Still-elevated expectations for future inflation must come
down, even as the pace of economic growth remains low,
Nabiullina told lawmakers Oct. 8.  For Russians, inflation is one of the biggest concerns
along with housing and utilities, according to a poll published
Sept. 18 by the state-run All-Russian Center for the Study of
 Public Opinion .  “The dynamics of the key macroeconomic indicators
suggested that the pace of economic growth remained low,” the
regulator said in its statement. “More pronounced downward
trends in inflation expectations need to be formed to ensure the
achievement of inflation goals in the medium term.”  Bank Rossii is signaling more willingness to reduce rates
than after last month’s meeting, according to  Alexander Morozov ,
Moscow-based chief economist for Russia, the  Commonwealth of
Independent States  and Baltic states at HSBC Holdings Plc.  ‘More Confident’  “The central bank feels more confident in the inflation
trends both for this year and next,” Morozov said by phone.
“December remains more likely for a rate cut than November.”  Inflation slowed to 6.1 percent in September from 6.5
percent in August.  Core inflation , which excludes volatile costs
such as energy, remained at 5.5 percent. Russia’s $2 trillion
economy expanded 1.2 percent from a year earlier in the second
quarter, its worst showing since a contraction in the last three
months of 2009.  The central bank’s emphasis on waiting for “more
pronounced” improvements in inflation expectations is the key
phrase in today’s policy statement, according to Tatiana Orlova,
senior economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London .  “We continue to see a small chance of a 25 basis-point cut
in January,” she said by e-mail. “Most likely, the central
bank will delay easing until later in 2014, in May or June, when
headline inflation will probably drop below its new point target
of 5 percent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  