-- Russia Opens Case Against Uralkali CEO as Condition for Return
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-10-14T15:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/russia-opens-case-against-uralkali-ceo-as-condition-for-return.html
Russia  opened a criminal case
against OAO Uralkali Chief Executive Officer Vladislav Baumgertner and will seek his extradition from  Belarus , where he
was detained seven weeks ago.  Baumgertner is being investigated for “abuse of office,”
the charge brought against him in Minsk, according to a
statement today on the Russian Investigative Committee’s
website. Belarusian President  Aleksandr Lukashenko  said Oct. 11
that Russia must lay criminal charges against the executive
before he’d be allowed to return home.  Uralkali, the world’s biggest producer, roiled the $20
billion potash market at the end of July after withdrawing from
a trading venture with its Belarusian partner, accusing it of
selling cargoes outside of their marketing agreement. The
Russian company said it would increase output, sending shares of
fertilizer producers plunging from Toronto to  Tel Aviv .  “All is going as planned: Russia needs to open the case to
get the CEO home and release him there after confirming that
he’s not guilty,” Elena Sakhnova, an analyst at VTB Capital in
Moscow, said by phone.  The 41-year-old Baumgertner was arrested in Minsk on Aug.
26, a month after announcing the end of the potash marketing
venture. Charges were filed against him as chairman of
Belarusian Potash Co., as the trader was known. After spending a
month in a KGB prison, he was put under home arrest in a rented
Minsk flat. The charge against Baumgertner has been changed,
“probably” to embezzlement, Lukashenko said last week.  ‘Fair Judgment’  Alexei Basistov, Baumgertner’s lawyer, said he welcomes
Russia’s move to request his client’s handover as he expects
“fair judgment” by the Russian court system.  The next step in healing the rift between Russia and
Belarus may be the sale by billionaire Suleiman Kerimov of his
stake, Sakhnova said. “We expect Kerimov to sell his stake in
Uralkali regardless of the result of the Baumgertner case as
Russia and Belarus need to renew their partnership and
Lukashenko doesn’t want to work with him.”  Kerimov, who shares 33 percent in Uralkali with two
partners, is getting offers to sell the stake. Billionaire
 Mikhail Prokhorov , former banker Vladimir Kogan, billionaires
 Mikhail Gutseriev  and Vladimir Evtushenkov are among potential
bidders, people said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net  