-- Saudi Aramco Plans ‘Massive’ Spending to Extend Field Life
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-10-14T11:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/saudi-aramco-seeks-to-extend-oilfield-life-with-expansion-plans.html
Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest
crude exporter, is making “massive investments” as it seeks a
production buffer to guard against swings in global  oil prices 
while addressing a decline in output from its older fields.  Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the state-owned producer known as
Saudi Aramco, plans to maintain spare output capacity of more
than 2 million barrels a day, according to Chief Executive
Officer Khalid Al-Falih. The Dhahran-based company raised its
annual  capital budget  tenfold to $40 billion over the last
decade and, in the past two years, has adjusted its daily
production by more than 1.5 million barrels, he said.  “We are on track to increase the average of our
conventional oil recoveries to 70 percent, which is more than
double the current world average,” Al-Falih said at the World
Energy Congress in Daegu,  South Korea , today. “Resources are,
in fact, abundant.”  Benchmark oil futures have rallied 11 percent in  New York 
this year amid speculation  Middle East  unrest may disrupt
shipments from a region that accounts for more than a third of
global production. Saudi output increased to 10 million barrels
a day last month, coinciding with a drop in supply from  Libya ,
according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts and producers.  Global crude reserves, estimated at 1.6 trillion barrels,
are equivalent to half a century of production at current rates,
according to Al-Falih. Demand will rise by about 20 million
barrels a day over the next two decades, he said. Daily
consumption is forecast at 92.1 million barrels next year, the
 International Energy Agency  said in an Oct. 11 report.  Spare Capacity  Saudi Arabia has the largest portion of spare capacity
within the 12-member Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries. Maintaining a cushion of unused production allows the
desert kingdom to raise output to meet supply shortfalls and
potentially limit price spikes.  “OPEC nations, and especially  Saudi Arabia , will continue
to meet all supply needs,” Ibrahim Al-Muhanna, senior adviser
to the Minister of Petroleum and  Mineral Resources , said today
in a speech at the triennial conference. “Saudi Arabia will
continue to be the supplier of last resort.”  At the same time, Saudi Arabia’s demand for natural gas
risks exceeding supplies of the fuel it has available. The
company started developing so-called unconventional gas
resources two years ago and is ready to begin supplying a 1,000
megawatt power plant in the country’s north with fuel set to be
produced through that program, Al-Falih said.  Manifa Deposit  Saudi Arabia, OPEC’s biggest producer, will maintain its
output capacity at 12.5 million barrels through new fields
including the offshore Manifa deposit, according to Al-Falih.
 Saudi Aramco  also plans to add 550,000 barrels a day of capacity
from the Shaybah and Khurais fields by 2017.  Manifa, which produces Arabian Heavy grade crude, and
Shaybah and Khurais, which will supply lighter varieties, will
help Aramco replace the oil that’s no longer being pumped from
aging fields, he said yesterday.  “These are to basically allow us to relax production from
the more mature fields and reservoirs and extend them, and also
to rebalance our crude slates because with Manifa we’re tilting
toward more heavy,” he said.  Light Crude  Shaybah will reach a capacity of 1 million barrels a day by
the end of 2016 or early 2017, after adding 250,000 barrels of
daily output capability, according to Al-Falih. The company will
add 300,000 barrels a day of capacity at Khurais, bringing it to
1.5 million in 2017. Aramco is also adding output of 250,000
barrels of natural gas liquids at Shaybah in a project set to be
complete by the end of 2014, he said.  Saudi Aramco will have more light crude for export once the
new deposits start producing, Al-Falih said. The heavier output
from Manifa is earmarked for new joint-venture refineries the
company is developing in the coastal towns of Jubail and Yanbu.  A third oil refinery the company is building at Jazan will
be completed by late 2016, Al-Falih said. The facility will
produce products from light and medium crudes for export.  The company plans to build a 3,000 megawatt power plant at
Jazan, he said. It awarded the contract for the supply of the
turbines to Siemens AG in August. A residue gasification unit
will be added at the refinery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Daegu at  adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Daegu at  yokada6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  