-- South Korea Cancels Joint Investor Event With North Korea
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-10-14T10:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/south-korea-cancels-joint-investor-event-with-north-korea.html
South Korea canceled plans for a
business event with North Korea aimed at drawing foreign
investment into their jointly run industrial park because there
wasn’t enough interest.  The North and South also haven’t made enough progress in
talks on other issues related to the Gaeseong park to go ahead
with the Oct. 31 event at the facility, the Unification Ministry
said today in a text message. North Korea has so far rejected
South Korean demands to allow Internet access and mobile-phone
use at the park.  The Koreas reopened the park north of their heavily armed
border last month. The North pulled its 53,000 workers out in
April after conducting a third nuclear test in February and
threatening attacks against South Korea and the U.S.  “The relations between South and North are stuck in a
stalemate now,” Koh Yu Hwan, a professor of North Korean
Studies at Dongguk University in  Seoul , said by phone. “Without
progress in the North Korean nuclear issue, progress in the
relations will also be difficult to achieve.”  Earlier in the day, North Korea released a statement
calling South Korean President Park Geun Hye “delusional” for
her recent comments that the North should give up its nuclear
ambitions to improve its economy.  The National Defense Commission, led by North Korean leader
Kim Jong Un, denounced U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry last
week for his offer of a non-aggression pact in return for
nuclear dismantlement. The commission called the offer a plot to
topple the regime.  The Gaeseong industrial park houses more than 120 South
Korean companies, including watchmaker  Romanson Co. (026040)  and  Shinwon
Corp. (009270) , an apparel maker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  