-- St. Jude Buys Nanostim as Pacemaker Gets EU Approval
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-10-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/st-jude-buys-nanostim-as-pacemaker-gets-eu-approval.html
St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ)  purchased
Nanostim Inc. for $123.5 million and said the company’s core
technology, a tiny wireless pacemaker implanted entirely inside
the heart, won European Union approval.  St. Jude, a maker of heart-rhythm devices, invested in
Nanostim in May 2011, gaining exclusive acquisition rights. The
device maker said in February that it would buy closely held,
Milpitas, California-based Nanostim by year’s end. St. Jude may
pay an extra $65 million if the technology hits additional
regulatory and  sales  goals, the  St. Paul , Minnesota-based
company said today in a statement.  The miniaturized pacemaker, the size and shape of a triple
A battery, will be available soon in select European markets,
St. Jude said. The device doesn’t need wires called leads to
connect to the heart, a component that has been tied to failures
with rival products used to regulate the heart’s rhythm. It is
implanted with a catheter that runs through the femoral artery
and can be removed, if needed, without surgery.  “For the past 40 years, the therapeutic promise of
leadless pacing has been discussed, but until now, no one has
been able to overcome the technical challenges,” Johannes
Sperzel, a cardiologist from Kerckhoff Klinik in Bad Nauheim,
 Germany , said in the statement. “This revolutionary technology
offers my patients a safe, minimally invasive option for
pacemaker delivery that eliminates leads.”  The battery of the pacemaker is expected to last nine to 13
years. Nanostim received  Food and Drug Administration  approval
to begin tests for the product in the U.S., which has stricter
regulatory requirements than the EU for marketing novel medical
devices. About 700,000 people worldwide each year get
pacemakers, which stimulate the heart when it beats too slowly.  Bank of America Corp. acted as a financial adviser to St.
Jude, with Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP serving as legal adviser.
Nanostim received legal counsel from  Wilson Sonsini Goodrich &
Rosati .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  