-- Swiss Re Said to Weigh Sale of U.S. Life Insurance Assets
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-10-15T08:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/swiss-re-said-to-weigh-sale-of-u-s-life-insurance-assets.html
Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN)  is considering selling
Aurora National Life Assurance Co. as it retreats from the U.S.
life and health insurance market, people familiar with the
matter said.  The world’s second-largest reinsurer is working with
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  to find buyers for Aurora National and some other
U.S. assets, two people said, who asked not to be identified
because the matter isn’t public. The sale could raise more than
$400 million, one person said.  The deal would include about $5 billion in insurance
assets, including corporate-owned and other life-insurance
policies and annuities, said one person. Mark Bonthrone, a
spokesman for Zurich-based Swiss Re, declined to comment, as did
Brandon Ashcraft, a New York-based spokesman for Barclays.  “The management is actively working on sharpening the
business portfolio,” Patrick Hasenboehler, a Zurich-based
analyst with J. Safra Sarasin who has a buy rating on the
shares, said in a note to investors. “We would welcome a
potential transaction as it would speed up the process of
improving the overall profitability and help to allocate more
capital to the core non-life reinsurance business.”  Swiss Re rose 0.4 percent to 76.45 Swiss francs in Zurich
at 10:02 a.m. valuing the company at 28.4 billion francs ($31
billion). The shares have gained 16 percent this year.  Aurora, based in Hartford,  Connecticut , serviced more than
88,000 life and annuity policies at June 2012, and had over $3
billion in assets,  according  to its website. The company and the
other assets were part of SRLC America Holding Corp., which
Swiss Re sold in 2012 to London-based insurer  Prudential Plc. (PRU)   SRLC was the holding company for the U.S. division of Swiss
Re’s Admin Re business, which bought life and health insurance
companies that were no longer issuing new policies. The sale led
to a $399 million loss for the business,  according  the Swiss
Re’s annual report.  Swiss Re said in July that it was in talks to combine the
rest of Admin Re with  Phoenix Group Holdings. (PHNX)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Monks in  New York  at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net ;
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  