-- U.A.E. Looks to Gas, Nuclear Power to Diversify, Minister Says
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-10-14T09:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/u-a-e-looks-to-gas-nuclear-power-to-diversify-minister-says.html
The United Arab Emirates, OPEC’s
fourth-largest crude producer, is investing in nuclear power,
renewable energy and liquefied natural gas terminals to reduce
its reliance on oil, according to its energy minister.  “We are making our energy-supply portfolio more robust,”
Suhail Mohammed Al-Mazrouei said in Daegu, South Korea, today.
“We are committed to being a reliable supplier of hydrocarbons
to the world,” he said, adding that the nation is operating a
cross-country crude pipeline to facilitate exports.  Abu Dhabi, holder of most of the U.A.E.’s crude reserves,
plans to raise output capacity to 3.5 million barrels a day in
2017 to meet export demand and feed an expanded local refinery.
The emirate supplies parts of the country with gas imported from
 Qatar  and from its own fields and provides electric power to
other emirates. Abu Dhabi and Dubai, the second-biggest emirate,
are also investing in renewable energy.  “Traditional sources of energy on their own are not
enough,” Al-Mazrouei said at the World Energy Congress. “The
U.A.E. is actively diversifying its energy mix.”  The U.A.E. plans to generate 25 percent of its power from
nuclear plants by 2020 and to have 2,500 megawatts of generation
capacity from renewable sources, according to the minister. Four
nuclear plants will produce 5,400 megawatts of power when
completed by 2020, Matar Hamed Al Neyadi, an energy ministry
undersecretary, said at the conference today. Renewable energy
will account for about 7 percent of the nation’s generation, he
said, indicating the U.A.E. will have a capacity of more than
35,000 megawatts by 2030.  Choke Point  Abu Dhabi last year started a crude pipeline to Fujairah, a
port outside the Strait of Hormuz, a choke point for oil
shipments from the Persian Gulf. Two Abu Dhabi state-owned
investment vehicles plan to build an LNG import terminal in the
emirate to bring in more of the fuel for power generation.  The U.A.E., which has boosted its oil-production capacity
to about 3 million barrels a day, will proceed with plans to
raise its total daily output capability to 3.5 million barrels
even amid increased supply from U.S. shale resources and from
Middle East producers including  Iraq , Al-Mazrouei said
yesterday. Rising global demand means extra production will be
utilized, he said.  Domestic power demand alone is growing at about 6 percent a
year, Al Neyadi said today.  The U.A.E. pumped 2.9 million barrels a day of crude last
month, according to a Bloomberg survey of producers and
analysts. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
supplies about 40 percent of the world’s oil, with Saudi Arabia,
Iraq and  Kuwait  ranking as the top three producers in September.  OPEC’s 12 members are  Algeria ,  Angola ,  Ecuador ,  Iran , Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the U.A.E. and
 Venezuela .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Daegu at  adipaola@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  