-- U.K. Stocks Advance as Investors Watch U.S. Debt Talks
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-10-14T16:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/u-k-stocks-little-changed-as-investors-watch-u-s-talks.html
U.K. stocks  advanced for a third
day, sending the  FTSE 100 (UKX)  Index to a two-week high, as U.S.
lawmakers continued talks to raise the sovereign borrowing limit
with three days to go before it lapses.  Travis Perkins Plc (TRK)  rallied to its highest price in at least
22 years after analysts recommended the stock. Johnson Matthey
Plc climbed 5.9 percent after JPMorgan Chase & Co. advised
investors to buy the shares. Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
dropped 1.4 percent after Bank of America Corp. said it has
turned more cautious on U.K. banks.  The FTSE 100 rose 20.46 points, or 0.3 percent, to 6,507.65
at the close in London after earlier falling as much as 0.4
percent. The gauge advanced 0.5 percent last week as U.S. House
Republicans proposed a short-term increase to the debt ceiling
and optimism grew that  Janet Yellen , nominated to head the
Federal Reserve, won’t rush to withdraw stimulus. The broader
FTSE All-Share Index added 0.4 percent today, as did Ireland’s
ISEQ Index.  “The markets have been reluctant to be reactionary to
what’s happening on  Capitol Hill  because we’ve been here before,
and we know the political incentives are to drive this fight
right down to the wire,”  Lena Komileva , the London-based
managing director and chief economist at G+ Economics Ltd., said
in an interview with  Guy Johnson  on Bloomberg Television.
“Therefore a temporary resolution is likely five minutes before
it’s too late.”  U.S. Senate leaders continued negotiations to reach an
agreement on how to end the fiscal impasse before the Treasury
reaches its debt ceiling on Oct. 17. Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
said yesterday that he had a productive conversation with
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , though they didn’t conclude a
plan to send to the Democratic-controlled chamber for a vote.  Global Threat  The government of the world’s biggest economy has been
partially shut down since Oct. 1 after lawmakers failed to pass
a budget. International Monetary Fund Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  said the congressional deadlock threatens the
global economy.  “If there is that degree of disruption, that lack of
certainty, that lack of trust in the U.S. signature, it would
mean massive disruption the world over,” Lagarde said on NBC.
“And we would be at risk of tipping, yet again, into
recession.”  Travis Perkins rallied 5.1 percent to 1,763 pence, its
highest price since at least January 1991. RBC Capital Markets
LLC raised its recommendation on the builders’ merchant to the
so-called top pick rating from outperform. Bank of America
upgraded the shares to buy from underperform, saying the company
will benefit from an increase in housing activity.  Johnson Matthey  Johnson Matthey Plc (JMAT)  climbed 5.9 percent to 2,987 pence.
JPMorgan boosted its rating of the producer of auto catalysts
used to cut vehicle pollution to overweight from neutral. The
company’s investments over the years in the industrial-catalyst
segment will now start to speed up  growth , the brokerage said.  Essentra Plc (ESNT)  advanced 1.3 percent to 735 pence. The
specialty-plastics supplier posted third-quarter revenue that
jumped 24 percent from last year.  RBS dropped 1.4 percent to 371.7 pence. Britain’s biggest
publicly owned lender was cut to underperform by Bank of
America, which said it has turned more cautious on U.K. banks
because of the potential for margin pressure in 2014.  Michael Page International Plc (MPI)  tumbled 5 percent to 470
pence, for its biggest loss since April. The recruitment
consultancy said  third-quarter  gross profit increased to 127
million pounds ($204 million) and that full-year operating
profit will rise to 68 million pounds. Shore Capital described
the interim management statement as disappointing compared with
the growth reported by rivals Hays Plc and Robert Walters Plc.  Chemring Group Plc fell 4.1 percent to 211.1 pence, its
lowest price since June 2006. JPMorgan downgrade the supplier of
missile-avoidance equipment for combat jets to neutral from
overweight. The company said last week production snags and
currency shifts will hurt earnings this year, with political
turmoil holding back 2014 results.  The volume of shares changing hands in FTSE 100-listed
companies was 34 percent lower than the 30-day average, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  London  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  