-- U.K. Baby Boom to Add to Christmas Sales Revival, Verdict Says
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-10-14T11:59:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/u-k-baby-boom-to-add-to-christmas-sales-revival-verdict-says.html
Rising  consumer confidence  and a
recent baby boom are set to give U.K. retailers their best
Christmas since the recession started in 2008, according to the
seasonal forecast from researcher Verdict Retail.  Consumers will spend 88 billion pounds ($141 billion) in
the fourth quarter, a 2.2 percent increase from last year,
Verdict predicted in a report today. After years of declines,
sales of non-food items should show an increase, it said, adding
that growth in food will be driven mainly by inflation.  Verdict’s report comes amid an improving housing market and
increased job creation. Some consumers also have more money from
compensation for mis-sold payment protection insurance and the
sale of shares in  Royal Mail Plc, (RMG)  according to Verdict. Growth
in holiday spending would provide a boost for retailers, for
whom the season is their busiest of the year.  “Shoppers have far more reasons to be cheerful this
year,” Maureen Hinton, Verdict’s research director, said in the
report. “On top of all this, during the recession there has
been a baby boom which means one of the prime targets for
Christmas spending, kids, is growing.”  The number of U.K. births in the year through June 2012 was
the most since 1972,  Office for National Statistics data  shows.  Discounting will again be rife over the holiday as non-food
retailers battle for business, Verdict predicts.  Online sales in the final quarter are set to reach 11.6
billion pounds, according to the researcher, an increase of 12
percent on last year. More consumers will leave Web purchases
until the last minute because of click-and-collect services,
where shoppers can pick up orders from stores, Verdict said.  Ernst & Young today raised its forecast for U.K. economic
growth to 1.4 percent this year and 2.4 percent in 2014, up from
the 1.1 percent and 2.2 percent predictions last quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  