-- U.S. Nonprofit Hospital CEO Annual Pay Averages $600,000
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-10-14T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/u-s-nonprofit-hospital-ceo-annual-pay-averages-600-000.html
Heads of U.S. nonprofit hospitals
earn an average of almost $600,000 a year, compensation that
isn’t tied to quality measures such as mortality rates, a
Harvard University study found.  The chief executive officers paid the most oversee larger,
urban hospitals that are usually teaching institutions and have
a median salary of more than $1.66 million, according to
research published today in  JAMA Internal Medicine . The top
executives paid the least –- a median of $117,933 –- are most
often at small, non-teaching facilities in rural areas.  The findings are among the first to detail how much
nonprofit hospital CEOs are paid and the variations in salaries,
said  Ashish Jha , the study’s senior author. As insurers and
government programs such as Medicare link compensation to the
quality of care, hospital CEO pay appears out-of-step with the
trend in the health industry, he said.  “I was surprised that quality, things like hospital death
rates, seemed to have little influence on CEO compensation,”
Jha, a professor of health policy at Harvard School of Public
Health in  Boston , said in an e-mail. “These findings suggest
that while doctors are increasingly paid based on their quality
scores, the same may not be happening for senior hospital
leaders like CEOs.”
Hospital boards can decide that quality measures, especially
ones that track patient outcomes, are critical to CEO pay, Jha
said.  ‘Profound Impact’  “I was hoping that there would be at least some signal
that boards are paying attention to these patient outcomes and
rewarding their CEOs, at least to some degree, based on patient
outcomes,” he said. “When they do, they can have a profound
impact on the priorities and effectiveness of U.S. hospitals.”  Still, nonprofit hospitals are competing with other
industries to hire the best chief executives they can, so they
can’t always pay less without sacrificing capability, Jha said.  Researchers in the study examined seven data sources,
including tax forms for nonprofit hospitals in 2009, to
determine the salaries of 1,877 chief executive officers of
2,681 hospitals. Their average compensation was $595,781 in
2009.  Top executives were paid more for each additional hospital
bed; for higher levels of advanced technologies; and if the
hospitals were highly rated on patient satisfaction surveys, the
study found.  Teaching Hospitals  Chief executive officers at teaching hospitals received
$425,078 more than those at non-teaching hospitals, while those
who worked in institutions with high levels of advanced
technologies were paid $135,862 more than those whose hospitals
had low levels of technology.  “Hospitals and health-care systems are among the most
complex organizations to manage and CEO compensation reflects
the complexity of the job,” Elizabeth Lietz, a spokeswoman for
the American Hospital Association, said in an e-mail. “It
appears that the study fails to fully capture the full range of
responsibilities of today’s health-care leaders.”  The researchers found no association between CEO pay and
hospital margins, liquidity, occupancy rates, mortality rates,
readmission rates or charity care and other community benefits
including community health services, subsidized health services,
research and contributions to charitable organizations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  