-- U.S. Stocks Advance Amid Signs of Progress on Debt Talks
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   A u b r e y   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-10-14T20:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/u-s-stock-index-futures-drop-amid-debt-limit-stalemate.html
U.S.  stocks  rose, leaving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index less than 1 percent from a record,
amid signs lawmakers could reach a deal before the government
loses its ability to borrow money in three days.  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  jumped 7.8 percent on reports that the company
is in talks to get its service on cable operators’ set-top
boxes. St. Jude Medical Inc. rose 1.6 percent after the maker of
heart-rhythm devices bought specialist device maker Nanostim
Inc. for $123.5 million. Whirlpool Corp. lost 6.5 percent as
Cleveland Research said appliance demand has softened in the
past month.  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  slid 6.2 percent after Deutsche Bank AG
cut its rating on the online travel agency.  The S&P 500 rose 0.4 percent to 1,710.14 at 4 p.m. in  New
York , reversing an earlier drop of as much as 0.7 percent for a
fourth day of gains. The gauge is at its highest since Sept. 19
and within 16 points of its Sept. 18 record of 1,725.52. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  gained 64.15 points, or 0.4 percent, to
15,301.26. About 5 billion shares changed hands on U.S.
exchanges, 14 percent below the three-month average.  “Investors are encouraged that the political posturing
appears to be dying down and that real negotiations are under
way,”  Alan Gayle , senior strategist at RidgeWorth Capital
Management, said by phone from Atlanta. His firm oversees about
$48 billion. “The expectation is that as long as there are
genuine negotiations, that there will be a reasonable solution
that will avoid a default and secondly will get the government
up and running again.”  Deal Optimism  The S&P 500 erased early declines as U.S. Senate Democratic
and Republican leaders said they are optimistic about ending a
partial government shutdown and preventing the nation from
breaching the debt ceiling in three days.  The emerging agreement would suspend the debt limit through
Feb. 7, 2014, fund the government through Jan. 15 and require a
House-Senate budget conference by Dec. 15, according to a Senate
source familiar with the talks, who spoke on condition of
anonymity to discuss them.  The benchmark index rose 0.8 percent last week on
speculation lawmakers would reach an agreement that would
prevent a government default. The gauge slumped earlier today
after lawmakers failed to report progress over the weekend.  The government will exhaust its $16.7 trillion borrowing
authority Oct. 17. Without legislative action, the U.S. would
start missing payments sometime between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  Recession Risk  The government has been partially shut down since Oct. 1
after Congress failed to pass a spending authorization bill for
the financial year. Some official services remain suspended and
hundreds of thousands of workers are on unpaid leave.  The prospect of a U.S. default threatens the U.S. and world
economies, International Monetary Fund Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  said.  “If there is that degree of disruption, that lack of
certainty, that lack of trust in the U.S. signature, it would
mean massive disruption the world over,” Lagarde said in an
interview on NBC. “And we would be at risk of tipping, yet
again, into recession.”  In  China ,  exports  unexpectedly fell 0.3 percent in
September from a year earlier, according to a report from the
General Administration of Customs on Oct. 12. That trailed all
46 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Earnings Season  The S&P 500 has gained 1.7 percent since the shutdown began
Oct. 1 after rallying 4.7 percent in the third quarter as the
 Federal Reserve  unexpectedly maintained the pace of monetary
stimulus and corporate earnings surpassed estimates.  Third-quarter earnings season resumes tomorrow with
expected reports before the market opens from Citigroup Inc.,
Coca-Cola Co., Johnson & Johnson and Omnicom Group Inc. Yahoo
Inc. and  Intel Corp . are scheduled to report after the market
closes.  Profits for companies in the S&P 500 probably increased 1.4
percent during the three months while sales rose 2 percent,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Wells Fargo & Co . last week began
the earnings season for banks. JPMorgan reported its first
quarterly loss under Chief Executive Jamie Dimon amid a $7.2
billion charge to cover the cost of litigation and regulatory
probes. Wells Fargo reported record profit even as mortgage
banking revenue plunged 43 percent.  Eight of 10  main industry  groups in the S&P 500 rose as
health-care and energy stocks added at least 0.6 percent for the
largest gains.  Volatility Gauge  The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Volatility Index (VIX) , the
gauge of S&P 500 options prices known as the VIX, rose 2.2
percent to close at 16.07, after surging as much as 13 percent.
The gauge slipped 6.1 percent last week.  Netflix rose 7.8 percent to $324.36, leading gains among
stocks in the Nasdaq 100 Index, which closed today at its
highest level since 2000.  The online video-streaming service is in talks to add its
application to the set-top boxes of U.S. cable-television
operators including Comcast Corp. and Time Warner Cable Inc.,
according to three people familiar with the matter. The stock’s
gains accelerated after Netflix said it ordered a 13-episode
thriller series from Sony Pictures Television.  St. Jude jumped 1.6 percent to $56.03 after completing its
acquisition of Nanostim, whose core technology, a wireless
pacemaker implanted entirely inside the heart, won European
Union approval. St. Jude invested in Nanotism in 2011 and had
said in February it would buy the shares it did not own by the
end of this year.  Homebuilders Sink  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  gained 3.7 percent to $3.97.
Wedbush Securities Inc. analyst Betsy Van Hees upgraded her
rating to the equivalent of buy from hold. The analyst expects
the chipmaker’s third-quarter earnings to reach 6 cents per
share, surpassing the 2 cents average expectation from analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. AMD is expected to report results Oct.
17.  An  S&P 500  index of  homebuilders  sank 1.2 percent. D.R.
Horton Inc. retreated 2.1 percent to $18.25 and PulteGroup Inc.
slipped 0.7 percent to $15.99.  Order prices may show slower growth in the third quarter as
rising interest rates sap pricing power, and builders may
increase incentives to generate demand in some communities,
Bloomberg Industries said in separate reports today.  Whirlpool lost 6.5 percent to $131.29 for the biggest drop
in the S&P 500. Demand for appliances in the U.S. has softened
in the past month, Cleveland Research, which maintained its
neutral rating on Whirlpool shares, said in a note.  Expedia, Coach  Expedia slid 6.2 percent to $48.51 as Deutsche Bank
 downgraded  the stock to hold from buy, citing transition risks
following recent management changes at Expedia’s Hotels.com
unit. The company faces increased competition in the U.S.,
Deutsche Bank’s  Ross Sandler  wrote in the note.  Merck & Co. fell 1.1 percent to $46.75. Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. cut its rating on the stock to the equivalent of
hold, as the firm said 2013 is unlikely to be a “great year”
for the pharmaceutical company and sees only average prospects
for long-term revenue and earnings growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Taborek in New York at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net ;
Aubrey Pringle in New York at 
 apringle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  