-- U.S. Currency-Rig Probe, N.Y. Fed Sued, AlphaMetrix: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-10-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/u-s-currency-rig-probe-n-y-fed-sued-alphametrix-compliance.html
The U.S. Justice Department has
opened a criminal investigation of possible manipulation of the
$5.3 trillion-a-day foreign exchange market, a person familiar
with the matter said.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation, which is also looking
into alleged rigging of interest rates associated with the
London interbank offered rate, or Libor, is in the early stages
of its currency market probe, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the inquiry is confidential.  The U.S. investigation comes as the U.K. Financial Conduct
Authority said in June it was reviewing potential manipulation
of exchange rates. That month, allegations that dealers at banks
pooled information through instant messages and used client
orders to move benchmark currency rates were reported by
Bloomberg News. Regulators are probing the alleged abuse of
financial benchmarks used in markets from oil to interest rate
swaps by the firms that play a central role in setting them.  Swiss regulators last week said they were “coordinating
closely with authorities in other countries as multiple banks
around the world are potentially implicated.”  The person familiar with the U.S. currency market probe
didn’t say which banks may be under scrutiny. Gina Talamona, a
spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice Department, didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment on the probe.  Last week, European Union antitrust regulators said they
were examining the possible manipulation of currency rates by
the financial industry, while Switzerland’s Financial Market
Supervisory Authority, or Finma, and the nation’s competition
commission said they were probing similar potential wrongdoing.  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission has also been
reviewing possible currency market rigging, said a separate
person with knowledge of the matter.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  German Banks Warn ECB Against Stricter Rules in Asset Review  Germany ’s two main banking associations said the European
Central Bank should refrain from imposing stricter rules on bad
loans and capital buffers in its planned review of banks’ asset
quality.  The ECB should rely on existing accounting rules to measure
capital, non-performing loans, and the provisions to cover them
when it probes banks’ assets in the assessment, the
Bundesverband Deutscher Banken and the Bundesverband
Oeffentlicher Banken said in a paper last month obtained by
Bloomberg. The paper was addressed to the ECB, the German
Bundesbank and the country’s banking regulator Bafin.  Applying other rules may unjustifiably lower values for
assets or capital and raise buffer requirements, the groups said
in the paper.  The ECB is slated to take over supervision of euro-area
banks next year, after a transition period in which it will
assess the quality of banks’ assets and their resilience to
shocks. The bank reviews are the final opportunity to restore
confidence in the region’s financial system, ECB Executive Board
member Joerg Asmussen said last month.  Europe’s lenders have undergone two stress tests since
2010, with eight banks failing the last round conducted by the
European Banking Authority in 2011 with a combined capital
shortfall of 2.5 billion euros ($3.4 billion).  The ECB should abandon plans to unify bad-debt rules in
line with a proposal made by the European Banking Authority, the
associations say in the document.  Courts  Goldman Sachs Policy Lapse Spurred Fed Firing, Examiner Claims  A former senior bank examiner for the  Federal Reserve Bank
of New York  sued her ex-employer, claiming she was fired because
she refused to change her findings that  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
lacked a firmwide conflict-of-interest policy.  Carmen Segarra, 41, said in a lawsuit filed Oct. 10 in
 Manhattan  federal court that she examined the legal and
compliance divisions of Goldman Sachs in late 2011 and early
2012 and found that they lacked a policy that conformed with
federal banking regulations. She alleges she was fired because
she refused to withdraw her findings.  Michael Silva, who is named as a defendant, was the New
York Fed’s relationship manager for Goldman Sachs, according to
Segarra. In a meeting, he said the Fed “possessed information
about Goldman that could cause Goldman to ‘explode,’” Segarra
said in her complaint, which also named two other New York Fed
employees.  In the filing, Segarra cites e-mails with Silva in which
she argued that Goldman Sachs doesn’t have a firmwide policy
that met requirements while Silva accuses her of telling him the
bank didn’t have a policy at all. She also cited exchanges that
could undercut the thrust of her complaint, including claims by
superiors that her analysis was incorrect and questioning her
judgment.  Jack Gutt , a spokesman for the New York Fed, declined to
comment on the case, saying only that “The New York Fed
provides multiple venues and layers of recourse for its
employees to freely express concerns about the institutions it
supervises,” and that “such concerns are treated seriously and
investigated appropriately with a high degree of independence.”  Andrew Williams, a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, said in an e-mail that the company has no knowledge of
internal Fed discussions or the matters raised by Segarra.  “Goldman Sachs has a comprehensive approach to addressing
conflicts through firmwide and divisional policies and
infrastructure,” Williams said.  Segarra’s lawyer, Linda Stengle, said Oct. 10 in a phone
interview that her client was one of a group of bank examiners
hired by the New York Fed in 2011 under the Dodd-Frank Act.  Segarra claims the defendants harmed her career and
reputation by firing her for cause.  The case is Segarra v. Federal Reserve Bank of New York,
13-cv-07173, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  NYSE Open to Major Changes in Market Structure Debate, CEO Says  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , the biggest U.S. stock exchange owner, is
willing to consider major changes to how it does business as
part of a discussion on reworking the structure of American
markets, according to Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer .  NYSE would review issues such as its status as a self-regulator of customers and its practice of giving rebates to
high-volume users of its markets as part of industrywide talks,
Niederauer said. He didn’t say what concessions he expected from
other market participants beyond a willingness to compromise.  “A lot of people want to make it like it’s a fist fight or
a food fight,” Niederauer said during a speech at an Investment
Company Institute conference in New York last week. “It doesn’t
have to be.”  Niederauer spoke as his company’s acquisition by
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  nears a projected Nov. 4
completion date and amid pressure from U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Jo White to prevent the
technology breakdowns that are plaguing American markets.
Niederauer was among bourse executives who met with White on
Sept. 12, months after NYSE officials went to  Washington  to
discuss restrictions on private trading venues including dark
pools that compete with the New York Stock Exchange.  Comings and Goings  AlphaMetrix Terminates CFO as Cash Shortfall Hits Commodity Fund  AlphaMetrix Group LLC , which connects investors with hedge
fund managers and futures traders, said it’s experiencing
“significant cash flow issues” and fired its chief financial
officer.  The Chicago-based company runs a business known as a
commodity pool operator, AlphaMetrix LLC, which lets customers
invest in futures accounts managed by professional traders. The
parent company told clients in a letter Oct. 10 that both its
liabilities and those of the commodity pool operator “greatly
exceed” liquid assets and that the net asset values of some
pools may be affected.  The revelations are another blow to confidence in the
futures industry after it suffered two of its largest failures
with the collapse of MF Global Holdings Ltd. in 2011 and
Peregrine Financial Group Inc. a year later. In both cases,
client money went missing.  Reuters reported earlier on the details of the letter
AlphaMetrix Group sent clients.  The  National Futures Association , an industry-funded
regulator that monitors compliance with U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission rules related to protection of customer money
and fraud, said it hasn’t uncovered evidence that customer money
at AlphaMetrix is missing and confirmed that no enforcement
action has been taken against the company.  AlphaMetrix Group “has recently encountered significant
cash flow issues and is working to strengthen its current
financial position and continued operations,” Aleks Kins, the
chief executive officer, told clients in a letter Oct. 10.  The document also announced that the company’s CFO had been
terminated and that Arthur F. Bell Jr. & Associates LLC, an
accounting firm, was hired to review AlphaMetrix’s internal
controls and recordkeeping.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 