-- Unilever’s Emerging-Market Slowdown Exacerbated by U.S. Weakness
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-10-14T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/unilever-s-emerging-market-slowdown-exacerbated-by-u-s-weakness.html
Unilever (UNA)  Chief Executive Officer
Paul Polman will next week report one of the worst quarters of
sales growth in his five-year tenure amid a slowdown in  emerging
markets . Making matters worse is that an expected recovery in
the U.S., his single largest market, has failed to materialize.  Unilever, the world’s second-largest  consumer-goods  maker,
said Sept. 30 that it will post underlying sales growth of 3
percent to 3.5 percent for the third quarter, down from 5.9
percent in the same period last year and its worst result since
the fourth quarter of 2009. While weak currencies in India,
Brazil and Indonesia were to blame, sales in developed regions
like Europe and the U.S. also remain “flat to down,” it said.  Conditions in the U.S., which accounts for about 18 percent
of Unilever’s $70 billion in  revenue , are particularly worrisome
as analysts such as Panmure Gordon’s Graham Jones anticipated a
rebound in the second half. There, Unilever has been hurt by
encroachment from  Procter & Gamble Co., (PG)  stalling sales at
retailers like  Wal-Mart (WMT)  Stores Inc., and a sluggish, uneven
economic recovery that’s left many Americans unwilling to spend.  The slowdown at the company “says as much about developed
markets as it does about emerging markets,” Jones said in an
interview. “They need to get their act together there.”  Unilever’s performance across its entire U.S. business
deteriorated in the third quarter, according to Nielsen data
cited in an Oct. 9 note from Exane BNP Paribas. Food sales fell
4.9 percent, hurt by a 9 percent decline in margarines and
spreads, while  sales  of personal-care products like Axe body
sprays were unchanged. Categories that had double-digit growth a
year ago, like shampoo, turned negative.  Declining Share  While Unilever’s U.S. market share has declined for two
straight quarters, Cincinnati-based P&G, the maker of Pantene
shampoo, gained share in the third quarter, helped by increased
sales of cosmetics, soaps and deodorants, according to Nielsen.  “P&G has undoubtedly regained some momentum,” Jeff Stent,
an analyst at Exane, said in an Oct. 4 report. P&G’s market
share had declined in the previous three quarters.  Unilever’s results in mature markets trail those of its
European peers, according to Oriel Securities analyst  Chris Wickham . In the first half of 2013,  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc, (RB/) 
the maker of Lysol disenfectants, posted a 3 percent sales gain
in Europe and  North America .  Nestle SA, (NESN)  the world’s biggest food
company, said sales in developed markets grew 1 percent. Nestle
and Danone are among European consumer-products companies that
are due to report third-quarter sales this week.  Less Inventory  Like all makers of consumer goods, Unilever is coping with
retailers including Wal-Mart and Target Corp. trimming excess
inventory from their stores. At Wal-Mart, the world’s largest
retailer, U.S. sales grew at less than half the pace of its
inventory in the second quarter, prompting the Bentonville,
Arkansas-based company to cut some orders in the latter half of
the year, according to an internal e-mail reviewed by  Bloomberg
News . Wal-Mart is Unilever’s biggest customer, accounting for
3.5 percent of sales,  data compiled by Bloomberg  show.  Wal-Mart’s move reflects a “disconnect between the U.S.
economic recovery and the consumer,” Sanford C. Bernstein
analyst  Andrew Wood  said in a Oct. 9 note. Unilever’s Polman has
spoken about this phenomenon, exemplified by the rise in
Americans using  food stamps  to help feed their families, which
now stands at 47.8 million people, close to a record high,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  “These people run out of money halfway through the month
and scrape by until the end of the month,” Polman, who is
married to an American, said in a December interview. “So your
level of spending is different.”  Low Confidence  The U.S. may decelerate further due to the government
shutdown and the looming default on the nation’s debt. A default
would “almost surely” derail the economic recovery and lead to
potentially major market turmoil worldwide,  Olivier Blanchard ,
chief economist of the  International Monetary Fund , said Oct. 8.  The uncertainty and bickering in Washington isn’t boosting
 consumer confidence . Only 9 percent of North American households
polled by Nielsen said they’re able to spend freely, the lowest
percentage of any region across the globe. And more than half of
U.S. consumers are anxious about the future, according to a
recent survey from the  Boston Consulting Group .  “Consumers see what’s going on in Washington and that
weighs on their behavior,” James Russo, a consumer insights
analyst at Nielsen, said in an interview.  In response, shoppers are buying fewer things and making
products last longer -- one third are eating more leftovers,
according to Wells Fargo Securities. They’re also purchasing
cheaper brands in categories like hair care, helping explain
Unilever’s falloff in that segment. Bernstein expects underlying
sales in developed markets to decline 1 percent in the quarter.  Struggling Businesses  Unilever, which is due to report third-quarter  results  Oct.
24, has coped with slowdowns before. The company has said it
expects sales to “improve” in the fourth quarter. Still,
another period of sub-par performance in developed markets
should prompt the company to take a closer look at its strategy
in struggling businesses like spreads, which accounts for about
7 percent of sales, Panmure’s Jones said.  “Developed markets,” the analyst said, “have not been a
bed of roses for a long time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  