-- Murdoch’s 21st Century Fox Buys Rights to German Soccer
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-10-14T12:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/murdoch-s-21st-century-fox-buys-foreign-rights-to-german-soccer.html
Rupert Murdoch ’s  21st Century Fox
Inc. (NWSA)  signed a multiyear agreement to air German Bundesliga
soccer games to viewers in Asia, Europe and the Americas.  The agreement begins from the 2015-2016 season and includes
rights to all 306 Bundesliga matches each year, including the
DFL-Supercup and Bundesliga Relegation Playoffs, according to a
statement today from the company and Deutsche Fussball Liga.
21st Century Fox, based in New York, is the entertainment
business split off from News Corp. this year.  The rights include coverage of Germany’s richest soccer
clubs, including  Bayern Munich , which won the elite European
club competition last season. The deal is another boost for the
country’s top soccer league which is competing with England’s
Premier League and Spain’s La Liga for viewers in new markets.  The agreements are for a five-year term in Asia and the
Americas and a two-year term in Europe. The deals cover 80
countries and grant 21st Century Fox exclusive rights to
Bundesliga in the Americas and Asia, including India and the
Oceania region, as well as Italy, the Netherlands and Belgium.
No financial details were disclosed.  In 2012, the German league signed a deal with Murdoch’s  Sky
Deutschland AG (SKYD)  broadcaster for rights to show the games in
Germany. Sky Deutschland seeks to replicate the success of
another unit of 21st Century Fox,  British Sky Broadcasting
Corp. (BSY) , which became the biggest U.K. pay-TV operator with the
English Premier League broadcasting rights.  German Final  The profile of the Bundesliga was lifted last season by the
fact that Bayern Munich and  Borussia Dortmund  reached the final
of the Champions League, Europe’s top soccer trophy.  The English Premier League generates the most revenue from
TV rights among its European competitors, making it the highest
grossing domestic soccer league in the world. Germany’s top
soccer clubs have said it is difficult to compete as rivals in
England and Spain have higher television revenue and aren’t
forced to operate profitably.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 