-- Vietnam Vows Dong and Interest-Rate Stability for Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-14T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/vietnam-vows-dong-and-interest-rate-stability-for-growth.html
Vietnam ’s central bank pledged to
take “necessary measures” to stabilize the dong and signaled
it would refrain from raising  interest rates  as the Southeast
Asian nation struggles to revive economic growth.  The State Bank of Vietnam is also considering raising
foreign-ownership limits at weak domestic banks, Deputy Governor
Dang Thanh Binh said yesterday in an e-mailed response to
questions from Bloomberg News. He cited the examples of
Indonesia and  Thailand , which raised investor caps to take
“advantage of outside funding sources.”  Vietnam is grappling with the slowest economic growth since
at least 1999, after the highest level of bad debt among
 Southeast Asia ’s biggest economies curbed lending and hurt
businesses. The central bank cut a policy rate in July to
support growth, after it devalued the currency the previous
month to improve the balance of payments.  “For the remaining months of the year, the State Bank of
Vietnam will continue to closely watch market developments and
take necessary measures to stabilize the  currency market ,” Binh
said. The authority will “manage policy rates in a manner that
maintains the current stability” as Vietnam’s inflation will be
“controlled” at around 7 percent this year, he said.  Dong Devaluation  The government is seeking to boost an  economy  that grew
5.25 percent last year, the slowest pace in 13 years, according
to the  International Monetary Fund . The central bank devalued
the dong by 1 percent in June, the first time since December
2011. It won’t weaken the dong by more than 3 percent this year
as it seeks to prevent the hoarding of dollars, it said Oct. 8.  The dong traded at 21,091 per dollar yesterday from 21,100
last week, according to bank data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency has weakened 1.2 percent against the dollar this year,
trailing declines of currencies elsewhere in Southeast Asia.  Next year, the central bank “will continue to manage the
dong’s exchange rate in line with the supply and demand of
foreign currencies in the market and ensure meeting the goals of
inflation control, macro-economic stability, reducing the trade
deficit and increasing foreign currency reserves,” Binh said.  The government plans to weaken the dong as much as 2
percent by the end of 2013 with the timing “dependent on the
market,” Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung said in an interview in
 New York  Sept. 27.  Policy Rates  The  State Bank  cut the repurchase rate in July to 5.5
percent from 6 percent, after reducing the refinancing rate by
one percentage point in May. The refinancing rate cut was the
eighth since the start of 2012.  The monetary regulator plans to cut policy rates by 2
percentage points annually, it said in May in an e-mailed
response to Bloomberg.  The central bank also “encourages foreign banks to invest,
buy and acquire stakes and merge with weak local banks,” said
Binh.  Premier Dung said in the Sept. 27 interview the government
plans to let foreign companies own as much as 49 percent of
local banks in the “near future.”  “One of the measures under our consideration to treat weak
banks is to mobilize overseas funding and create conditions for
foreign investors who have financial capability, good management
and prestige to take part in restructuring of weak banks,” Binh
said.  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  