-- Vietnam Vows to Boost Political Ties With China in Visit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-15T10:22:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/vietnam-seeks-to-boost-political-trust-with-china-during-li-trip.html
Vietnam pledged to boost “political
trust” with China during Premier  Li Keqiang ’s visit, as the two
Communist countries focus on building economic ties and calming
territorial tensions.  Li, who arrived in Vietnam Oct. 13, and Prime Minister
Nguyen Tan Dung pledged to cooperate in all fields, including
growth and trade, according to a posting on the Vietnam
government’s website, even as they remain in dispute over waters
in the  South China Sea  rich in fish, gas and oil.  The two signed a memorandum of understanding for a cross-border economic cooperation zone and agreed to open trade
promotion offices, the posting said, as the countries aim to
boost two-way trade to $60 billion by 2015. Dung also accepted
an invitation to visit  China .  Li’s visit, the first since China’s leadership change,
“has great significance in boosting and strengthening political
trust and comprehensive strategic partnership between the two
countries,” the Vietnam government said on its website. “Since
the relationship was normalized in 1991, friendship and
cooperation between Vietnam and China has developed fast, deeply
and widely in all fields.”  A race for resources in the South China Sea, and a broader
push for influence in the region, has the bigger powers looking
to shore up relationships with smaller countries, with Chinese
President Xi Jinping visiting Indonesia and  Malaysia  earlier
this month. Dung warned at a forum in  Singapore  in late May that
miscalculations over territorial spats in the waters could
disrupt “huge” trade flows and have global consequences.  ‘Peaceful Measures’  The two sides agree to “well manage” sea disputes and
refrain from complicating or expanding conflicts, according to a
joint statement posted on Vietnam’s government website today.
Vietnam reiterated it will not seek official relations with
 Taiwan , the statement said.  The two nations agree that strengthening their partnership
and working to resolve existing issues would be beneficial to
regional peace and stability, according to the statement.  “The two sides need to keep the situation in control and
patiently resolve disputes using peaceful measures,” said
Vietnam President Truong Tan Sang at a meeting with Li,
according to a posting on the government’s website yesterday.
The two nations need measures that “are acceptable for both and
don’t affect each country’s stance,” he said.  Li also met with Vietnam Communist Party General Secretary
Nguyen Phu Trong and National Assembly Chairman Nguyen Sinh Hung
yesterday.  Two-way trade between Vietnam and China was $41.2 billion
in 2012, according to a separate posting Oct. 13 on the Vietnam
government’s website. Vietnam’s exports to China were valued at
$12.4 billion and imports at $28.8 billion last year, it said,
while in the first 8 months of this year two-way trade was $31.8
billion.  The leaders agreed to establish a working group to explore
joint sea projects, according to the posting, which did not
elaborate on the location of possible development. The
 Philippines  and Vietnam have rejected China’s map of the sea,
first published in the 1940s, as a basis for joint exploration
of oil and gas.  The talks between China and Vietnam will help “maintain
sound, sustainable development of bilateral relations conducive
to peace and regional stability,” Chinese Foreign Ministry
spokeswoman Hua Chunying said at a briefing in Beijing
yesterday. The new joint working group on maritime development
is “an important breakthrough,” Hua said.  In March, China fired on a Vietnamese fishing vessel,
sparking a protest from the government, and it has used patrol
ships to disrupt hydrocarbon surveys by the Philippines and
Vietnam. China pledged last week to avoid escalating tensions
while it works with Southeast Asian nations on a code of conduct
for the waters, reflecting the softer tone it has adopted in
recent months.  ‘Making Attempts’  “The overall bilateral relationship has gotten worse in
the past three years, mainly due to the increasing tensions in
the South China Sea,” said Le Hong Hiep, a lecturer at Vietnam
National University in  Ho Chi Minh City . “The leaders have been
making attempts to minimize the negative impacts of the disputes
on the overall relationship,” Hiep said in an e-mail.  The two countries will make use of a newly created hot-line
to defuse territorial spats, according to the posting.  Speaking at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum
meeting in Bali last week, Xi said “the Asia-Pacific is a big
family and China is a member of this family.” “China cannot
develop in isolation from the Asia-Pacific, while the Asia-Pacific cannot prosper without China,” Xi said.  Power Plant  Vietnam and China will expand financial and monetary
cooperation, encourage financial institutions on both sides to
support trade and investment projects and enhance both nations’
ability to prevent financial and monetary risks, according to
the Vietnamese government.  China Southern Power Grid, in partnership with  Vietnam 
National Coal-Minerals Industries and China Power International,
is to receive an investment certificate to build a $2 billion
power plant located in the central province of Binh Thuan during
Li’s visit, the Vietnam Investment Review reported yesterday,
citing an unidentified official with the Ministry of Industry
and Trade.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
John Boudreau in Hanoi at 
 jboudreau3@bloomberg.net ;
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  