-- Jamaica Anti-Doping Lagged in Olympic Testing, Ex-Chief Says
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-10-15T15:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/wada-probes-lack-of-drug-testing-for-jamaican-athletes-ap-says.html
Jamaica ’s anti-doping agency must
“get its house in order” after out-of-competition testing all
but stopped ahead of last year’s  Olympic Games , former executive
director Renee Anne Shirley said. The  World Anti-Doping Agency 
said it will investigate the matter.  Sprinter Usain Bolt led the Jamaican team at the London
games, winning three golds in its  12-medal haul . The only person
the national agency drug-tested away from races in the five
months before the Olympics was a male athlete who came out of
retirement and needed to produce a sample before resuming
competition, Shirley said by telephone, without identifying him.  WADA  said in a statement yesterday that it previously
expressed its concern after similar comments made by Shirley in
August about the Jamaican agency, whose acronym is JADCO.  “Since then, WADA has accepted an invitation from the
Prime Minister of Jamaica to visit and inspect JADCO,” the
Montreal-based agency said.  Shirley said yesterday that she ended a seven-month stint
as JADCO’s executive director in February for personal and work
reasons. On taking up the post, she said, she was told out-of-competition testing had come to a standstill because “300 or
400” kits to collect urine samples were out-of-date.  “The question is: was the slack taken up by other
federations” including  track and field’s IAAF , Shirley said.
“I don’t think there was a cover-up, but Jamaica’s performance
since the Beijing Olympics in 2008 has been exceptional and you
can’t say it’s down to yam, or it’s the water. You have to
investigate.”  Olympic Testing  Bolt was tested more than 12 times last year by the IAAF,
the  Associated Press  said when it reported the WADA probe
earlier yesterday. The first five finishers in every event at
the London games were tested under the  International Olympic
Committee ’s anti-doping program.  Bolt said July 25 that he’s “clean” and that positive
tests this year by athletes including the U.S.’s Tyson Gay and
Jamaican pair Veronica Campbell-Brown and Asafa Powell were a
setback for the sport. All three deny doping.  IAAF officials didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking
comment about its testing in Jamaica. JADCO Chairman Herbert
Elliott didn’t immediately return a call and e-mail seeking a
comment for this story.  WADA ‘Unhappy’  WADA said it was “unhappy” that its visit to Jamaica
can’t take place until 2014. The Jamaican government  said on its
website  today that JADCO had proposed that the visit take place
in January because it has commitments in November and December,
including the hearings of three of five athletes who have had
“adverse” drug-test readings.  Prime Minister Portia Simpson Miller added that she
welcomes WADA’s help.  “We are happy for all the technical support WADA and the
IAAF have provided and continue to provide in order that our
systems will become first rate,” Simpson Miller said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  