-- Water Desalination Capacity Climbs on Power, Energy Needs
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2013-10-14T19:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/water-desalination-capacity-climbs-on-power-energy-needs.html
Demand for water to generate power,
energy and refining needs sparked such growth in desalination
plants that 50 percent more capacity is due online this year
than in 2012, according to newly published data.  A 30 percent improvement in energy efficiency of the best
performing desalination plants contributed to the rise, said
Christopher Gasson, publisher of Global Water Intelligence,
which today released the DesalData report with the International
Desalination Association.  “You could see this as the water–energy nexus in action,”
Gasson said in a statement. “The  energy industry  needs water,
both in refining and power generation as well as upstream. The
water industry also needs energy, and the two seem to be coming
together in increased demand for desalination.”  Desalination plants being commissioned this year alone can
produce 6 million cubic meters a day -- as much fresh water as
28 months of rain in  London , the report said. That raises the
total capacity of the world’s 17,277 commissioned desalination
plants to 80.9 million cubic meters, it said.  Seawater is the largest source of water for desalination at
59 percent, brackish water is next at 22 percent, then river
water 9 percent and wastewater at 5 percent, according to the
data. Towns and cities use 61 percent of the desalinated water,
industry is the next biggest user at 26 percent, with power
stations third at 7 percent.  Saudi Arabia  has the largest online capacity of seawater
desalination for its energy and domestic needs at 9.2 million
cubic meters a day. Next is the United Arab Emirates at 8.4
million cubic meters and Spain at 3.8 million, according to the
data.  Cleaning Water  Water cleansed of salt and impurities is used from cooling
 power plants  to oil exploration, where it helps separate oil
from sand in a process called low-salinity flooding that boosts
recovery from older wells as much as 30 percent, according to
data presented online that accompanied today’s statement.  More than two-thirds of desalination plants now use more
efficient membrane and pumps to purify water, with the remainder
employing conventional thermal systems that heat water to
boiling and recover the salt-free steam, Oxford, U.K.-based GWI
said.  Markets expected to see the fastest growth in desalination
during the next five years, more than doubling capacity, are
 South Africa , Jordan, Mexico, Libya,  Chile , India and  China .  The report was released ahead of the 2013 IDA World
Congress taking place Oct. 20 to Oct. 25 in Tianjin, China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Johnston at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net  