-- Twitter Adds Feature for Marketers to Schedule Posts
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-10-14T20:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/twitter-adds-feature-for-marketers-to-schedule-posts.html
Twitter Inc. added a feature to let
marketers schedule their posts, as the company moves to make it
easier for advertisers to use its products ahead of a more than
$1 billion public offering.  The new tool works for both regular 140-character posts --
known as tweets -- and ones that brands pay for to promote their
message to a larger audience, the company said in a  blog post
today . The feature will help companies schedule their content up
to a year in advance, making it easier to plan advertising
campaigns around a new product or holiday.  Twitter is trying to make it simpler for advertisers to use
its platform, as ad agencies continue experimenting with the
microblogging service. Releasing new ad products and features
are crucial to Twitter’s ability to increase revenue and achieve
profitability, the San Francisco-based company said in its S-1
prospectus, which was made public earlier this month.  “Scheduling Tweets in advance is something that is already
baked into Twitter through clients like TweetDeck, which is
owned by Twitter,” said  Rebecca Lieb , an advertising analyst
with Altimeter Group in  New York . “There’s no reason that
advertisers should not have the functionality that everyone else
using Twitter has been able to enjoy for a long while, so it’s
good that they’ve done this.”  Expanding Capabilities  Twitter, which acquired TweetDeck in May 2011, also lets
users who aren’t advertisers schedule their free content using
other other applications such as HootSuite.  Twitter’s business, which relies on advertising, is in its
beginning stages. In the first six months of the year, the
company’s revenue more than doubled to $253.6 million, even as
it posted a net loss of the period of $69.3 million.  Ad revenue is projected to rise 63 percent to $950 million
next year from $582.8 million in 2013, according to EMarketer
Inc.  Twitter is following a similar arc to  Facebook Inc. (FB) , the
world’s largest social network and a competitor, which also
beefed up its ad products and has been training advertisers on
how to reach users through its site before and after an IPO last
year.  “Facebook almost acted like an older sibling in paving the
way, educating advertisers on social media in general,” Lieb
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net  