-- Wockhardt Falls After U.K. Regulator Action on Factory
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-10-14T05:50:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/wockhardt-falls-after-u-k-regulator-action-on-factory.html
Wockhardt Ltd. (WPL)  fell the most in more
than three weeks in Mumbai trading after the company said the
U.K. drugs regulator withdrew a certificate entitling one of its
plants to export drugs to the nation.  Wockhardt dropped as much 5.1 percent, poised for the
biggest decline since Sept. 17. The stock traded down 5 percent
at 499.65 rupees as of 10:43 a.m. in Mumbai. A factory needs the
so-called good manufacturing practice, or GMP,  certification  to
supply medicines to the U.K.  The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency’s
action marks the second instance of a western drug regulator
citing problems in the factory in Chikalthana, about 220 miles
(354 kilometers) east of Mumbai. The plant sells about 12
million pounds ($19 million) of medicines annually to the U.K
and the European Union, and Wockhardt is awaiting more
information from the regulator, the drugmaker said Oct. 12.  The U.K. “withdrawing the GMP certification is a big
issue, and it’s practically similar to the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration issuing an import alert,” said Surya Narayan Patra, a pharmaceutical analyst at Phillip Capital Securities
Ltd. “It will take the company at least a year to resolve
this.”  Daryl Suchitha, a spokesman for Wockhardt, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking information on the
withdrawal of the permit and a timeline for resolving the issue.  The Chikalthana plant makes metoprolol, a generic version
of the heart pill sold by London-based  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  under the
brand name Toprol-XL, among other drugs.  Critical Drugs  The U.K. regulator will allow the company to continue
manufacturing critical drugs for which there is “no feasible
alternative in the market,” Wockhardt said in its statement.  When inspectors from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
visited the plant in July, they found urine spilling over open
drains, soiled uniforms and mold growing in a raw-material
storage area, according to a document obtained by Bloomberg via
a Freedom of Information Act request.  Wockhardt has hired consultants, appointed a new quality
supervisor and is working on a better compliance system to
address the report on Chikalthana, it said through an external
public-relations agency in a response to the findings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  