-- Won Trades Near Eight-Month High on Overseas Inflows; Bonds Drop
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-10-14T01:53:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/won-trades-near-eight-month-high-on-overseas-inflows-bonds-drop.html
South Korea ’s won traded within 0.5
percent of an eight-month high as global funds pumped money into
local stocks. Government bonds fell.  Hyundai Heavy, the nation’s largest shipbuilder, received
an $850 million order to build four LNG vessels, according to an
Oct. 11 report. Foreign investors have bought more local
equities than they have sold every day since Aug. 22, exchange
data show. U.S. Senate leaders struggled to reach agreement on a
deal to end the partial government shutdown and avoid a default
that may come as soon as Oct. 17. South Korean Finance Minister
Hyun Oh Seok said last week that the prolonged negotiations
would hurt the U.S. and global financial systems.  “A shipbuilder won an overseas deal and foreign funds keep
coming into local stocks, offsetting the pressure from external
uncertainties,” Jeon Seung Ji, a currency trader at Samsung
Futures Inc. in  Seoul , wrote in a research note today. “There
is an expectation that the U.S. debt-ceiling talks will reach a
deal ultimately.”  The won declined 0.1 percent to 1,072.5 per dollar as of
10:26 a.m. in Seoul, prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s 0.5 percent off an eight-month high of
1,067.07 reached Oct. 7. One-month implied volatility, a measure
of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 6.91
percent.  The central banks of South Korea and  Indonesia  have agreed
to establish a currency swap arrangement valued at about $10
billion, the monetary authorities said in an e-mailed joint
statement. Exports in  China  unexpectedly fell by 0.3 percent in
September, signaling the constraints of global demand on South
Korea’s largest overseas market and highlighting distortions
caused by fake invoices that have yet to be eliminated from
trade data.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent sovereign notes due
June 2016 rose one basis point to 2.87 percent, according to
Korea Exchange Inc. prices. South Korea will sell 1.85 trillion
won ($1.7 billion) of five-year  government bonds  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  