-- WPP Purchases Digital-Advertising Agency in Chinese Expansion
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-10-15T08:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/wpp-is-said-to-purchase-digital-ad-agency-in-chinese-expansion.html
WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s largest
advertising company, is adding to its network in  China , buying a
digital-ad agency as part of a strategy to expand in the world’s
fastest-growing economies.  WPP purchased IM2.0 through its VML operating company,
which is part of the Young & Rubicam network, WPP said in a
 statement  today.  “IM2.0 is one of China’s leading and most successful pure-play digital agencies,” WPP said in the statement, noting the
Mobile Marketing Association named it “agency of the year” in
China this year.  China is WPP’s third-largest  market  -- behind the U.S. and
U.K. -- with revenue, including associates, of $1.4 billion and
about 14,000 employees. The London-based company is spending as
much as 400 million pounds ($640 million) this year, buying
digital-ad assets and companies in rapidly expanding markets
such as Turkey, Brazil, India and Vietnam to counter slower
growth in Europe and  North America  and capture new business from
burgeoning economies.  IM2.0, which has offices in Beijing and Shanghai, creates
online strategies and ad campaigns. Its clients include Dell
Inc., Adidas AG, coffee maker Mondelez International Inc. and
appliance manufacturer Qingdao Haier Co. It has a staff of 230
people, assets of about 200 million  yuan  ($33 million) and 2012
revenue of 72 million yuan, according to the statement.  Bloomberg News  reported WPP’s purchase of IM2.0 yesterday.
No price was provided for the deal.  Emerging Markets  WPP  shares  rose 2.3 percent to 1,270 pence as of 9:01 a.m.
in London trading, valuing WPP at about 17 billion pounds. The
stock has risen 43 percent this year.  The Chinese government has set 7.5 percent as the expansion
goal for the economy this year, a rate it reached for the second
quarter. The statistics bureau will publish gross domestic
product figures for the third quarter this week. The economy
probably expanded 7.8 percent from a year earlier, according to
a Bloomberg survey.  With the IM2.0 purchase, WPP has  bought  five Chinese
companies in 2013, including market researchers Miaozhen Systems
and Sinotrust International Information & Consulting Beijing Co.
Of the more than 40 acquisitions WPP made this year, 70 percent
are in  emerging markets  such as Argentina, Myanmar, Bangkok and
Kenya.  WPP may be displaced from atop the advertising world should
a merger of the second- and third-largest ad companies, New
York-based Omnicom Group Inc. and Paris-based  Publicis Groupe
SA (PUB) , be completed. WPP took the throne after its 2008 acquisition
of Taylor Nelson Sofres Plc.  Publicis and Omnicom announced the “merger of equals” in
July, an all-stock deal that gave the combined company a market
value at the time of $35 billion.  WPP forecast annual revenue growth of more than 3 percent
in August. Chief Executive Officer  Martin Sorrell  said at the
time that WPP would raise its target for revenue from fast-growing markets and digital operations to 40 percent to 45
percent of total sales in the next five years, up from the 35
percent to 40 percent range previously announced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  