-- WTI Declines Amid Debt Talks, Iran Nuclear Negotiations
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-10-15T12:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/wti-slips-second-time-in-three-days-before-iran-nuclear-talks.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
declined as traders waited for U.S. lawmakers to reach a deal on
the nation’s debt ceiling, while Western governments hold talks
with  Iran  on its nuclear program.  Futures slipped as much as 0.8 percent. World powers
reacted with optimism to Iranian proposals on ways to end a
decade-long nuclear standoff as the first international talks
since Hassan Rouhani was elected president started in Geneva.
Ineos Group Holdings SA said it is shutting down the 210,000
barrel-a-day Grangemouth refinery in  Scotland  before a labor
strike that could halt flows from the Forties Pipeline System,
used to ship 45 percent of the U.K.’s North Sea  oil output .  “There is a general pressure on prices trending down,”
Nansen Saleri, chief executive officer of Houston-based
consulting firm Quantum Reservoir Impact, said from Istanbul in
an interview with Bloomberg Television. “The potential easing
of sanctions on Iran” could lower the price of oil.  WTI for November delivery declined as much as 84 cents to
$101.57 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , and was at $101.87 as of 12:44 p.m. London
time. Trading volume was about 27 percent below the 100-day
average.  Brent Loss  Brent for November settlement, which expires tomorrow, was
79 cents lower at $110.25 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. The more-active December contract lost
68 cents to $109.56. The front-month European benchmark was at a
premium of $8.37 to WTI after narrowing for the first time in
six sessions yesterday to $8.63.  Brent may slip below $100 a barrel for the first time since
June should discussions on Iran’s nuclear program lead to the
easing of sanctions, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Iran’s negotiations with diplomats from  China ,  France ,
 Germany ,  Russia , the U.K. and U.S. have analysts forecasting a
drop in Brent should the talks lead to the easing of sanctions.
The possibility for a revival of Iranian oil exports coincides
with  Saudi Arabia  producing at the fastest pace in three decades
and the U.S. pumping the most crude since 1989.  The benchmark grade used to price more than half the
world’s crude would drop by $12 a barrel, according to the mean
estimate of 19 traders and analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
yesterday. Prices rose as high as $128.40 in March 2012 as the
U.S. and European Union moved to tighten sanctions on Iran in
response to its nuclear program.  Debt Agreement  WTI rose 0.4 percent yesterday as U.S. lawmakers continued
to seek an accord to prevent the nation from breaching its debt
ceiling. Senate Democratic and Republican leaders said they have
made progress toward a resolution as the government’s borrowing
authority is due to lapse on Oct. 17.  The potential debt agreement in the U.S. would suspend the
limit through Feb. 7, 2014, fund the government through Jan. 15
and require a House-Senate budget conference by Dec. 13,
according to a Senate source familiar with the talks who spoke
on condition of anonymity.  If Congress does nothing, the federal government will run
out of borrowing authority and start missing payments sometime
from Oct. 22 to Oct. 31, according to the  Congressional Budget
Office .  Keep Spinning  “ Oil prices  seem to assume the world will keep spinning
after Oct. 17,” said Michael Poulsen, an analyst at Global Risk
Management in Middlefart,  Denmark . “Though the U.S. has
technically defaulted a couple of times in the past, with the
current hype around the potential impact, we don’t think it’s
likely to happen this time.”  Ineos is performing a “safe shutdown of the site” at
Grangemouth,  Richard Longden , a company spokesman, said by phone
from London. Ineos is due to continue talks with labor union
Unite to avoid a full shutdown of the plant after a 48-hour
strike planned for Oct. 20.  Grangemouth supplies power and steam to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
neighboring Kinneil processing plant, which handles oil from the
Forties Pipeline System. The FPS network is scheduled to load
387,000 barrels a day of crude in October, according to a
shipping program obtained by Bloomberg News. Crude is gathered
from more than 80 fields, according to BP.  Forties is the most abundant and typically the cheapest of
the four North Sea crudes used to set the Dated Brent benchmark.
The other grades are Brent, Oseberg and Ekofisk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  