-- Yellen’s Rise to Fed Chairman Shows Women Rare at the Top
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-10-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/yellen-s-rise-to-fed-chairman-shows-women-rare-at-the-top.html
When President  Barack Obama  became
the first president to nominate a woman to head the  Federal
Reserve , he elevated  Janet Yellen  to a global position of
influence that shows how wide the gap remains for women to
achieve equal representation in positions of power.  If Yellen is confirmed by the Senate, she would be the
first female chairman of the Fed and also may soon be,
temporarily at least, the only woman on the Fed board of
governors. Fed Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  has been nominated by
Obama as deputy Treasury secretary, which would make her the
highest-ranking woman in Treasury history.  Elizabeth Duke  left
the central bank at the end of August.  As the successor to  Ben S. Bernanke , who began the first of
his two terms as chairman in 2006 when he was 52, the 67-year-old Yellen would become the 15th head of the U.S. central bank
since its inception in 1913.  Yellen’s selection is “a huge step in the right
direction,” said Shaunna Thomas, co-founder of the women’s
advocacy group Ultraviolet. At the same time, “the
administration reflects the under-representation of women in top
leadership positions in the country, in government and the
private sector.”  Women make up more than half of the U.S. electorate and
they gave Obama 55 percent of their votes in 2012, propelling
his re-election, exit polls showed. That raised expectations
that women would ascend the ranks of his administration.  Cabinet Departures  Of 23 cabinet and cabinet-level posts under Obama
currently, six are held by women. That’s down from eight at the
end of his first term with departures of female department
heads, most recently  Janet Napolitano  at the Homeland Security
Department and Karen Mills at the  Small Business Administration .  By comparison, women occupied about a quarter of cabinet-level positions in President  George W. Bush ’s administration.
The peak was 41 percent of those posts during President  Bill Clinton ’s tenure, according to data collected by the Center for
American Women and Politics at  Rutgers University .  The White House staff has more reflected the nation’s
gender balance with women making up about half of the almost 500
employees, according to a 2011 report to Congress.  Yet men still dominate the top ranks. Figures submitted for
the 2012 roster show that among the 20 employees listed in the
report as making the top salary of $172,200 a year, six were
women, the list showed. That compares with seven of 21 in the
2011 report.  Positions Unfilled  To be sure, Obama still has positions to fill in his
administration as well as three openings on the Fed that may
alter the proportions of women in power. He’s also put women
into high-ranking jobs that previously only had been held by
men. Along with Yellen at the Fed and Raskin at Treasury, he
named Julia Pierson as director of the U.S. Secret Service.  “It’s another critical step,” Michigan Democratic Senator
Debbie Stabenow said of Yellen’s nomination. “Women who have
been in the trenches, working hard all their professional lives
are finally being recognized for their competence.”  Obama drew criticism from women in both political parties
after some of his early 2013 Cabinet picks were men, including
those in the top three posts: Jacob J. Lew as Treasury
secretary, former Massachusetts Senator  John Kerry  as secretary
of state -- replacing  Hillary Clinton  -- and former Nebraska
Senator Chuck Hagel as defense chief.  Obama’s first choice for State,  Susan Rice , withdrew from
the nomination process in the wake of criticism for comments she
made about the deadly Sept. 11 attack on a U.S. consulate in
Benghazi,  Libya . He also passed over a woman who was another
contender for the top defense job, Michele Flournoy, former
defense undersecretary for policy.  ‘Boys Network’  “The boys network is alive and well,” Democratic
consultant Donna Brazile, campaign manager for  Al Gore ’s 2000
presidential campaign, wrote on Twitter Dec. 12, the same day
Rice withdrew from consideration.  Representative Marsha Blackburn, a Tennessee Republican,
said on CNN Jan. 13 that Flournoy as defense chief “would have
been an historic choice. And I think there are a lot of people
that are disappointed in there.”  Obama responded at the time with a plea for patience.  “I would just suggest that everybody kind of wait until
they’ve seen all my appointments before they rush to judgment,”
Obama said at a Jan. 14 news conference.  Yellen’s nomination came after Obama’s other top choice for
the Fed, former Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers , withdrew
from consideration last month. It was preceded by weeks of
public debate over whether she or Summers was a better fit to
lead the Fed -- a discussion that frequently turned back to the
would-be milestone of the first woman at the helm.  Talent Pool  “Through history, the best candidates frequently are
women, so this isn’t about tokenism, this is about drawing from
that talent pool,” North Dakota Democratic Senator Heidi Heitkamp said in an interview. “To me this is a component of
getting good advice, of getting good public policy.”  Katie Beirne Fallon, Obama’s deputy director of
communications, said that “over the course of his
administration, the President has benefited from the expertise
of women who have served in most of the decision-making roles
related to the economy.”  “The Administration takes very seriously its
responsibility to lead by example and has consistently outpaced
hiring of women in comparable ranks in the private sector, state
and local government, and Congress,” she said in an e-mailed
statement.  Yellen was the favorite in surveys of economists and had
the backing of 20 members of the Senate Democratic caucus who
signed a July 26 letter to Obama.  Tony Fratto , a U.S. Treasury assistant secretary in the
 Bush administration  and the founder of consultancy Hamilton
Place Strategies in  Washington , said that in talking about
Yellen “you almost don’t want to mention the fact that she’s a
woman because you want to focus on the point that she’s
extremely well-qualified and experienced to do the job.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  