-- Zurich Insurance Said to Present CFO Report End October
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2013-10-15T15:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-14/zurich-insurance-said-to-present-cfo-report-end-october.html
Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN)  will
present the outcome of an internal investigation over the
suicide of Chief Financial Officer Pierre Wauthier at the end of
this month, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  A report on whether undue pressure was placed on the CFO
after he mentioned former Chairman  Josef Ackermann  in a suicide
note has been completed, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the matter hasn’t been made public.
Ackermann, 65, quit three days after Wauthier was found dead in
August, calling the allegations “unfounded.”  Wauthier’s suicide sparked fresh doubts about Zurich
Insurance’s financial health after it missed analysts’ profit
estimates in both of the last two reported quarters. Chief
Executive Officer Martin Senn, 56, will present his targets for
the three years through 2016 to the executive board in Zurich
today, said a separate person familiar with the matter.  “Zurich’s management now need to be as transparent as
possible,” said  Boris Boehm , who helps manage about 1.5 billion
euros ($2 billion) at Aramea Asset Management in Hamburg,
 Germany . “If things are only addressed behind closed doors, it
will tarnish the company’s reputation.”  The Zurich-based company declined to comment in an e-mailed
statement today, calling it an “ongoing review.”  ‘More Challenging’  Zurich Insurance said on Aug. 15 it will be “more
challenging” to reach targets for the three years through 2013,
which include improving the combined ratio, a measure of
profitability, by as much as 4 percentage points at its general
insurance business relative to competitors and increasing the
market share of its U.S. home and auto policies unit.  Switzerland ’s largest insurer is scheduled to present its
new three-year plan to investors on Dec. 5.  The  shares  closed at 238.10 Swiss francs in Zurich, up 1.1
percent on the day, valuing the company at 35.4 billion Swiss
francs ($39 billion). They have dropped about 2 percent this
year, while the 30-member Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index
increased 20 percent.  With shares declining following the suicide, Senn was
forced to tell analysts on Aug. 30 that there’s no link to the
company’s financial performance. Tom de Swaan, who was appointed
chairman after Ackermann’s departure, has said that he’s not
aware of any inappropriate behavior toward Wauthier. The company
hasn’t yet named a new CFO.  Daniel Bischof, a Zurich-based analyst at Helvea with a buy
recommendation on the insurer, said that it’s important for Senn
to present “realistic and credible targets” for the coming
three years, appoint a new CFO and show “one or two clean
quarters without any negative surprises.”  “Zurich has lost a number of strong leaders who drove high
performance and were trusted by investors,” said Andy Broadfield, an analyst at  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in  London , who rates the
shares equal weight, adding that new targets will be
“important.” It’s “crucial for Martin and his team to then
deliver to recover some of that lost confidence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  