-- Actavis to Pay Texas $84 Million to Settle Medicaid Drug-Pricing Lawsuit
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2011-12-28T18:49:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/actavis-pays-84-million-to-settle-drug-pricing-suit-texas-officials-say.html
Two units of  Actavis Group Hf  will
pay $84 million to settle a lawsuit over drug pricing,  Texas 
officials said, less than half the amount an Austin jury said
the company should pay.  The state accused Actavis Mid-Atlantic LLC and Actavis
Elizabeth LLC, subsidiaries of the Iceland-based company’s U.S.
division, of inflating billings to the Texas Medicaid program by
falsely reporting drug prices. The state court jury in February
ordered the units to pay the state $170 million.  The settlement resolves that litigation, Texas Attorney
General  Greg Abbott  said today in a statement. The settlement
includes a $29.2 million recovery for the state’s general fund,
Abbott said.  “Actavis denies any and all wrongdoing, and denies that it
has any liability relating to the Texas judgment,” the company
and the state said in the settlement agreement. The parties
reached a settlement “to avoid the delay, uncertainty,
inconvenience and expense of continuing the litigation.”  The lawsuit is one of multiple claims by Texas and other
states alleging that pharmaceutical companies inflated Medicaid
billings for drugs through inaccurate price reporting.  The Actavis suit was the only Texas claim to reach trial,
Abbott said. His office has recovered almost $450 million from
pharmaceutical companies in drug-pricing suits.  Company Statement  “Actavis is pleased to have resolved this matter and looks
forward to providing continued access to our products to the
more than 3 million Texans who rely on Medicaid for their
medical coverage,” Doug Boothe, chief executive officer of
Activis Inc., the company’s U.S. unit based in Morristown,  New
Jersey , said today in an e-mail.  “We elected to settle this case rather than pursue an
appeal of the jury’s decision in order to secure this favorable
outcome,” Boothe said. “Actavis will continue to report our
product pricing in a manner consistent with all applicable laws
as well as the terms of this agreement.”  The case is State of Texas Ex. Rel. Ven-A-Care of the
Florida Keys Inc., D-1-GV-08-1566, Texas District Court, Travis
County (Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 