-- Madoff Son Must Face Suit in Bankruptcy Court
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2011-12-28T20:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/madoff-son-returned-to-bankruptcy-court-by-u-s-judge-in-198-million-suit.html
Bernard Madoff ’s son Andrew must
submit to a bankruptcy judge’s decision to permit a $198 million
lawsuit to go forward because he sought that court’s protection
when he filed a claim against his father’s estate, a federal
judge said.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley in Manhattan last week
declined to hear an appeal of the September decision in favor of
 Irving Picard , the trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC, in his claim against Madoff family
members including Andrew Madoff and the estate of Mark Madoff,
who committed suicide in December 2010. Pauley’s written opinion
was filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.  “Because Mark and Andrew invoked the aid of the  bankruptcy
court  by offering a proof of claim and demanding its allowance,
they must abide by the consequences of that procedure,” Pauley
said in his Dec. 22 decision, citing a  U.S. Supreme Court  ruling
that also described limits to the power of bankruptcy judges.
“There is no basis for them to insist that the issue be
resolved” by a higher court, Pauley said.  Andrew Madoff asked Pauley in October to allow an appeal.
In court papers filed in his own behalf and as executor of his
late brother’s estate, he said the judge’s decision would result
in a “massive expansion of liability” for managers of banks
and large corporations for the wrongs of individual units.  Martin Flumenbaum , a lawyer for  Andrew Madoff  and Mark
Madoff’s estate, said Pauley’s decision to return the case to
bankruptcy court “is a procedural issue and has no bearing on
the merits of the dispute.”  ‘Without Merit’  Picard’s lawsuit is “wholly without merit,” Flumenbaum
said in an e-mail today. “Mark and Andrew Madoff had no prior
knowledge of Bernard Madoff’s crimes and contacted the U.S.
Department of Justice and the SEC immediately after their father
told them he had defrauded his investment advisory clients.”  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff took a different view from
Pauley last month when he began reviewing five so-called
clawback lawsuits brought by Picard. Rakoff faulted Picard for
trying to keep the cases in bankruptcy court on the basis that
the defendants had filed claims against the estate, saying that
district judges have a “statutory obligation” to withdraw
suits that require consideration of non-bankruptcy law.  Suing the Madoffs in 2009, Picard claimed the con man’s
family used the firm as their “family piggy bank” and should
be forced to turn over the money to victims of Madoff’s  Ponzi
scheme . He sued Mark and Andrew Madoff, as well as Bernard
Madoff’s brother  Peter Madoff  and his niece, Shana Madoff Swanson. All the defendants held senior positions at the Madoff
firm.  Burton Lifland   Picard claimed that the defendants failed to stop Madoff’s
fraud and instead chose to profit from it. In the September
ruling, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Burton Lifland ruled that Picard
could pursue most of his claims against the Madoffs and gave him
the opportunity to amend his complaint.  Picard, who increased the amount of money he sought in an
amendment, asked Lifland yesterday to let him change the suit
again, according to a court filing.  Madoff, 73, who pleaded guilty to charges of masterminding
the biggest Ponzi scheme in history, is serving a 150-year term
in a federal  prison  in  North Carolina .  The case is Picard v. Estate of Mark Madoff, 11-Misc-379,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Farr at 
 sfarr@bloomberg.net  