-- Abu Dhabi Extends Property Developer Bailout With $4.57 Billion for Aldar
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2011-12-29T13:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/aldar-agrees-to-sell-some-assets-to-abu-dhabi-government-for-4-6-billion.html
Abu Dhabi’s agreement to provide
 Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  with a 16.8 billion-dirham ($4.6 billion)
bailout will alleviate concern about the property developer’s
debt, Moody’s Investors Service said.  The decision is “credit positive” for Aldar and will
reduce unease about  debt (ALDAR)  maturing in 2012, the ratings company
said in a note to investors today. The developer’s credit
profile will benefit from increased certainty about  cash flow 
and less risk from property market volatility, Moody’s said.  The government will purchase 760 homes in the Al Raha Beach
development and retire 5 billion dirhams of debt related to
infrastructure on Yas Island, Aldar said in a statement
yesterday. Aldar gained as much as 9.5 percent in Abu Dhabi
trading, the biggest increase in two years.  Developers in  Abu Dhabi  and neighboring emirate Dubai are
struggling to pay down debts after property prices fell by more
than half since the market’s peak in 2008. The latest agreement
takes the amount of  government spending  on Aldar, Abu Dhabi’s
biggest developer, to 36 billion dirhams this year. The state
also contributed to a $20 billion bailout of Dubai in 2009.  Yesterday’s agreement “demonstrates the support that the
government is giving Aldar, but it also brings into question the
future business model for the company,” said Mohammed Ali Yasin, chief investment officer at CAPM Investment PJSC in Abu
Dhabi. “Will it continue to be a developer or merely a
property-management company for the government?”  Central Market  The government will also buy 5.7 billion dirhams of assets
in Central Market, a project in downtown Abu Dhabi, and finance
the completion of the district’s redevelopment. Aldar will
receive 4.5 billion dirhams in the next two months as part of
the agreement and the rest will be paid over four years,
according to the statement. The deal will immediately reduce
Aldar’s debt by 5 billion dirhams.  The company has repaid 14.2 billion dirhams in debt this
year, including a 4.5 billion-dirham convertible Islamic bond,
or sukuk, on Nov. 10. In January, the Abu Dhabi government paid
Aldar 19.2 billion dirhams for assets including a Ferrari theme
park and convertible bonds.  “It’s definitely better news for debt holders than equity
holders,” said Ahmed Badr, head of Middle East property
research at Credit Suisse Group AG in Dubai. “Going forward,
there is hardly any business for Aldar except some recurring
income from hotels, schools and malls. Combine that with a soft
 property market  and the outlook remains weak.”  Home prices  in Abu Dhabi may drop by an additional 30
percent, Dubai-based Rasmala Investment Bank Ltd. said in
October. In Dubai, values have fallen by more than 60 percent
since the peak of the market.  Dubai Bailout  State-owned companies including  Dubai World  ran up debt of
at least $129.3 billion transforming the sheikdom into a
tourism, trade and financial-services hub. The emirate received
a $20 billion bailout from the Abu Dhabi government and the
U.A.E.’s central bank in 2009. At the time, Dubai World was the
parent company of Nakheel PJSC, builder of a palm-shaped island
that received about 8.5 billion dirhams.  Mubadala Development Co., Abu Dhabi’s investment arm,
agreed in March to provide 3.1 billion dirhams to National
Central Cooling Co., known as Tabreed, as part of a
recapitalization.  The yield on Aldar’s 10.75 percent dollar bond maturing May
2014 fell 0.02 percentage points to 5.89 percent yesterday, the
lowest since Aug. 4, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  On Dec. 15, Aldar said it will convert 2.1 billion dirhams
worth of bonds issued to Mubadala Development Co. into shares at
1.75 dirhams each. The transaction has increased Aldar’s equity,
the company said yesterday.  Positive Sentiment  Aldar closed up 8 fils at 92 fils. The shares have fallen
61 percent this year, more than double the  Bloomberg EMEA Real
Estate Index’s (BEUREAL)  26 percent drop. Aldar has a market value of 2.65
billion dirhams.  Moody’s said it will make a more detailed assessment of the
effect of the government aid on the company’s medium-term credit
and plans to revise its financial forecasts for the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 