-- Alexion to Pay as Much as $1 Billion to Buy Rare-Disease Drugmaker Enobia
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2011-12-28T23:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/alexion-agrees-to-buy-closely-held-enobia-pharma-for-up-to-1-08-billion.html
Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALXN) , the
maker of a drug for a rare blood disease, agreed to acquire
closely held Enobia Pharma Corp. for as much as $1.08 billion,
adding experimental treatments for genetic metabolic disorders.  Alexion will pay $610 million in cash upfront for Enobia,
and as much as $470 million in addition if certain regulatory
and sales goals are achieved, the Cheshire, Connecticut-based
company said today in a statement. The companies said they
expect the deal to close in the first quarter of 2012.  Montreal-based Enobia’s main drug, asfotase alfa, seeks to
treat patients with hypophosphatasia, which causes skeletal
deformity, severe muscle weakness and organ damage. The therapy
is currently in the second of three trials typically required
for U.S. regulatory approval. No treatments are approved for the
rare life-threatening disease.  “The Phase 2 data are very strong,” Irving Adler, a
spokesman for Alexion, said in an interview. The results of
previous trials “are both highly encouraging.”  In September, the  Food and Drug Administration  cleared
Alexion’s Soliris, chemically known as eculizumab, for atypical
hemolytic uremic syndrome, a rare genetic blood disease that
progressively damages vital organs.  Alexion will pay for the deal with cash on hand and $300
million in bank debt. The company had $445 million in cash and
short-term investments as of Sept. 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Alexion said it will provide a 2012
forecast in February, including one-time expenses related to the
acquisition.  The company’s shares declined less than 1 percent to $70.92
at the close in  New York  before the deal was announced and have
increased 76 percent this year.  Goldman Sachs (GS)  & Co. is acting as Alexion’s financial
adviser, and  Ropes & Gray LLP  as its legal counsel. Bank of
America Merrill Lynch is financial adviser to Enobia, and
WilmerHale is acting as its legal adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  