-- JPMorgan, Lennar, Masco, Peregrine, Pulte: U.S. Equity Movers
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2011-12-29T21:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/alexion-chesapeake-energy-exar-leggett-platt-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
had unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and prices are as of 4 p.m. in  New York .  Homebuilders advanced after figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed the number of Americans signing
contracts to buy previously owned homes rose more than forecast
in November.  Hedge funds  including SAC Capital Advisors LP and
Caxton Associates LP have been buying real estate-related
investments while analysts from Zelman & Associates and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. are predicting a housing rebound, the Wall
Street Journal reported.  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)   climbed 6.1 percent to $6.31. The
largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue sold a 1,700-acre master-
planned community north of Denver to Wheelock Street Capital LLC
for an undisclosed amount.  Lennar Corp. (LEN)   added 4.6
percent to $19.86.  Masco Corp. (MAS)  , which sells and home-improvement
products, jumped 8.4 percent, the biggest gain in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, to $10.70.  Financial companies led gains in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  after the housing data and separate figures from the
Labor Department showing fewer Americans filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  over the past month than at any time in
the past three years.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   advanced 3.3 percent, the
biggest gain in the Dow, to $5.46.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  
rose 2.4 percent, the second-largest advance in the Dow, to
$33.42.  Cell Therapeutics Inc. (CTIC)   rose 11 percent, the most
since Dec. 6, to $1.12. The  Food and Drug Administration  said
the company’s pixantrone, which is under review for adults with
non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma who received two or more prior lines of
therapy, will be discussed by an advisory committee on Feb. 9.  Diamond Foods Inc. (DMND)   climbed 7.2 percent to $31.51.
CNBC reported that hedge-fund manager  David Einhorn  may have
taken a stake in the snack maker, citing speculation. Jonathan
Gasthalter, a spokesman for Einhorn, declined to comment.
Stephen Sibert, a spokesman for Diamond Foods, didn’t respond to
a voice mail and an e-mail seeking comment.  Peregrine Pharmaceuticals Inc. (PPHM)   jumped 9.1
percent, the most since Dec. 6. to $1.08. The developer of
antibodies to treat cancer and viral infections said preliminary
phase II trial results for its bavituximab in treating patients
with hepatitis C showed antiviral activity and that the
treatment is safe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  