-- Allen Stanford’s Bid to Delay January Trial for Investment Fraud Is Denied
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2011-12-28T22:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/allen-stanford-s-bid-to-delay-january-trial-for-investment-fraud-is-denied.html
R. Allen Stanford’s request for more
time to prepare to face charges he led a $7 billion investment
fraud scheme was denied by the judge who declared him mentally
fit for trial. Jury selection will begin in Houston federal
court on Jan. 23.  “This case needs to be tried,” U.S. District Judge David Hittner said in an eight-page ruling today. “This trial will
decide not just whether Stanford is guilty of the criminal
charges, but also whether hundreds of millions of dollars of
investor funds currently frozen may be forfeited and returned to
his alleged victims.”  Hittner ruled Dec. 22 that Stanford has sufficiently
recovered from a head injury suffered in a jailhouse assault and
an addiction to anxiety medications prescribed to him by prison
doctors after the attack.  The judge delayed Stanford’s original trial date last
January and ordered him into a prison rehabilitation program
after finding Stanford’s medical conditions had made him
incompetent to understand the proceedings or assist his defense
team.  “Our ability to defend our client has been consistently
limited by matters the court is well aware of,” Ali Fazel,
Stanford’s lead lawyer, said in an e-mailed statement today
about the ruling. “We are now reviewing our options.”  Flight Risk  Stanford, 61, has been detained as a flight risk since his
June 2009 indictment on charges he defrauded investors of more
than $7 billion through allegedly bogus certificates of deposit
at his Antiguan bank. The former financier has denied all
wrongdoing.  Stanford’s attorneys had asked to delay the trial until
late April to give them more time to review millions of pages of
company documents with Stanford. They argued they’d had only a
few days to review documents with Stanford while he was clear-
headed. They said they needed to search beyond the limited set
of papers the government has identified as critical to the case.  “The accused’s position is that this case is about the
flow of money” through Antigua-based Stanford International
Bank and more than 100 related Stanford companies scattered
around the globe, Fazel said in a Dec. 27 court filing.  “Therefore, the defense in this case does not merely
require knowledge of one company as the government contends, but
rather, depends upon knowledge of the finances and operations”
of all the companies, Fazel said in the filing.  Thousands of Investors  Prosecutors, who opposed a lengthy delay, said a four-to-
six-week extension wasn’t unreasonable given the time Stanford’s
lawyers had needed to devote to his recent competency hearing.
They said further delay wasn’t fair to thousands of Stanford
investors, whose recovery of funds from Stanford’s holdings is
stalled until his criminal case is concluded.  Justice Department spokeswoman  Laura Sweeney  declined to
comment on the ruling.  The government contends Stanford’s bank operated as a
 Ponzi scheme , in which early investors were paid above-market
 interest rates  with funds taken from later investors.  Prosecutors claim Stanford siphoned off more than $1
billion to fund a lavish lifestyle of private jets, yachts,
multiple mansions and a private Caribbean island.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas ( Dallas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 