-- Apple Seen Hurting Shareholders Pursuing Jobs’s Patent War: Tech
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2011-12-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/apple-seen-hurting-shareholders-with-jobs-s-thermonuclear-patent-war-tech.html
Steve Jobs , the co-founder of  Apple (AAPL) 
Inc., told his biographer that he’d rather wage “thermonuclear
war” with Google Inc. than make deals to share its technology
with the maker of the Android operating system.  That was no empty threat. In the 18 months before Jobs died
on Oct. 5, Apple sued  HTC Corp. (2498) , Samsung Electronics Co. and
Motorola Mobility Inc., the three largest Android users. It
alleged that the phone makers stole Apple’s technology and asked
courts to make them stop.  Now, as rulings start coming in, it might be time for a
détente that helps Apple maximize the value of its patents, said
Kevin Rivette, a managing partner at  3LP Advisors LLC , a firm
that advises on intellectual property. When courts side with
Apple and impose bans on infringing products, competitors can
often devise workarounds; in cases where Apple doesn’t win
import restrictions, it would be better off striking settlements
that ensure access to a competitor’s innovation, he said.  “A scorched-earth strategy is bad news because it doesn’t
optimize the value of their patents -- because people will get
around them,” said Rivette, whose clients include Android
licensees. “It’s like a dam. Using their patents to keep rivals
out of the market is like putting rocks in a stream. The stream
is going to find a way around. Wouldn’t it be better to direct
where the water goes?”  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment for this story.  Early Victories  For a time, Apple’s strategy looked sound. In October, an
Australian court banned the sale of Samsung’s Galaxy 10.1 tablet
in that country, and the U.S. International Trade Commission
agreed to consider an import ban on sales of certain HTC
devices.  Then the tide began to turn. Apple suffered a setback Nov.
30 when a higher Australian court overturned the ruling against
Samsung. On Dec. 22, a German judge said he was unlikely to
uphold an import ban on a version of the Galaxy, which Samsung
had modified in response to a ban on the original design.  The ITC gave Apple only a partial victory on Dec. 19 by
ruling that HTC had violated only one of four patents Apple said
it infringed. The patent covered so-called data detection, a
feature that helps users make a call, send an e-mail or find an
address on a map with a single keystroke.  Can’t Last?  HTC decided to drop the feature. That’s a significant loss
for HTC, since the capability has come to be an expected part of
using a smartphone. Still, the ruling reinforced predictions
that Apple won’t succeed forever in preventing Android rivals
from selling gadgets with the now-familiar hallmarks of Apple’s
pioneering devices. These include touch screens and app stores.  Legal history isn’t on Apple’s side, said  Marshall Phelps ,
former head of intellectual property at  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  and Microsoft Corp.  “Nobody has ever kept competitors out of any market with
patents,” in part because software can usually be slightly
changed to find a non-infringing alternative, he said.  Exceptions, he said, include an IBM patent that
characterized the basic architecture of a computer and Texas
Instruments Inc.’s original patent for the integrated circuit,
or computer chip. IBM was ordered by the  U.S. Department of
Justice  to license its patent, while Texas Instruments decided
to do the same, which has resulted in billions of dollars in
royalties, Phelps said.  Many of Apple’s patents, by contrast, relate to the look
and feel of devices or particular ways of using a machine,
rather than a basic technology breakthrough.  Shift Ahead  The question on the minds of many patent lawyers isn’t
whether Apple should adapt its legal stance, but when. For now,
the company’s approach is costing rivals millions of dollars in
fees, distracting management and preventing them from emulating
Apple’s products more boldly, said  Ron Epstein , a former
attorney at  Intel Corp . who now runs patent licensing firm
Epicenter IP Group.  Apple’s patent portfolio remains strong compared with those
of rivals, thanks both to the innovations that went into
groundbreaking products such as the iPhone and iPad, and to the
effectiveness of Apple’s legal department in obtaining patents
for those innovations, said Christopher Marlett, chairman and
co-founder of MDB Capital Group, an investment bank that advises
companies on buying and selling patents.  “Apple has the patents, the money and the expertise to go
to war,” Marlett said. “I just don’t see why Apple would seek
détente, since they’re the clear leader. Until they’re hit with
an injunction by  Google (GOOG)  or Samsung, they don’t need to get
serious about licensing.”  Right Back at You  Still, as more companies pour resources into the booming
mobile-devices market, Apple should eventually cut deals to
ensure access to rivals’ innovations as well, Epstein said.  “How long can you beat everyone else over the head before
they can do the same to me?” he said.  Tim Cook , who took over in August when Jobs announced he
would be unable to come back as CEO, has many other ways to take
advantage of the company’s patent portfolio. The company could
probably collect as much as $10 in royalties for every device
sold, more than the amount analysts speculate  Microsoft (MSFT)  receives
from Samsung and HTC, which use its mobile technology, said
Rivette at 3LP.  Other Arrangements  With $81 billion in cash and investments, Apple has little
need for more. Instead, the company could pursue out-of-court
settlements that would help it take on Android in other ways,
Rivette said. The company could offer to drop its more than two
dozen patent claims against Samsung in exchange for an agreement
to hold off using Apple technology for six months or a year, he
said. Cook could also try to get price breaks or guarantees that
would give it greater access to Samsung parts, Rivette said.  Apple and Samsung also could agree to focus on different
parts of the market. For example, Apple might make iPad-sized
devices while agreeing to stay out of the market for smaller
devices with 7-inch displays that could compete with  Amazon (AMZN) .com
Inc.’s new Android-based Fire tablet, Rivette said.  If Apple agreed to let Samsung include Apple’s proprietary
iTunes software in such a device -- an unprecedented and
unlikely step, he said -- Samsung’s sales would probably
increase. That would help slow gains by Amazon, whose push into
hardware makes it a threat to Apple. The move also would make
Samsung more reliant on Apple, lessening its dependence on
Google.  ‘Divided Loyalties’  “If I’m Apple, I want divided loyalties” from Android
licensees, Rivette said. “At this point, it would make more
sense for Apple to build an ecosystem that everyone can live in.
If you’re going to license, why not go for the big deal where
you lock down supply chains, get your technologies broadly
adopted and slow down competitors? That is the game.”  Apple should pursue such settlements soon, before it winds
up in need of other companies’ technology, Rivette said. The ITC
is expected to rule in September on an import ban on Apple and
 Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ’s mobile devices, for improper use of a
photo preview feature patented by  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)   If the Commission decides there was infringement of the
Kodak patent, Apple would need to settle the dispute by
licensing the technology or buying some or all of Kodak’s patent
portfolio to continue selling its products in the U.S. Because
Kodak has been actively trying to sell its portfolio of 1,100
patents in recent months, Apple runs the risk that they may be
purchased by Google, Samsung or another competitor.  Google Maps  While Apple is working on its own location-tracking
technology, many iPhone and iPad users now rely on Google
mapping tools to get directions or find the nearest coffee shop,
by way of a partnership between Apple and Google that predates
the rise of Android. Nokia Oyj, Microsoft and Skyhook Inc. also
hold valuable patents for tools that keep tabs on a device’s
whereabouts. Apple has made little headway in social networking
and may need deals with companies such as Facebook Inc. to add
features that help users connect with one another.
  “If Apple wanted to get into social networking, they’d have a
big problem,” said Ron Laurie, managing director of Inflexion
Point Strategy, a  Palo Alto , California-based intellectual
property consulting firm.  Working toward settlements sooner would help Apple and its
rivals maintain the fast pace of innovation that has fueled the
mobile-device market, he said.  “At some point, there has to be some kind of settlement,
some kind of peace,” Laurie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  