-- Argentina President Cristina Fernandez to Have Surgery for Thyroid Cancer
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2011-12-28T16:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/argentina-president-cristina-fernandez-to-have-surgery-for-thyroid-cancer.html
Argentina’s President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  has been diagnosed with thyroid cancer,
though tests show the tumor is contained and has shown no sign
of spreading.  Fernandez will undergo surgery Jan. 4 and take a 20-day
leave of absence while she recovers, government spokesman
Alfredo Scoccimarro told reporters in Buenos Aires last night.
Vice President  Amado Boudou  will run South America’s second-
biggest economy during that period. The cancer, first detected
during a routine checkup, is isolated to a lobe in the right
side of her neck, Scoccimarro said.  While Fernandez’s diagnosis came as a shock to her 43
million compatriots, her health problems are unlikely to affect
the government unless they are shown to be worse than is
currently believed, said the Eurasia Group, a New York-based
political risk group.  Fernandez, 58, publicly mourned the heart attack death of
her husband and predecessor,  Nestor Kirchner , on her way to re-
election Oct. 23. Her own health came into question this year
after she canceled trips abroad and daily activities three times
following bouts of low  blood pressure .  Curable Cancer  Thyroid cancer is highly survivable, with more than 95
percent of patients living at least 10 years after detection,
according to the U.S. National Institutes of Health. Treatment
typically involves removal of the thyroid, a gland located at
the back of the neck that regulates the heart rate and hormones,
followed by radioactive iodide treatments, taken orally.  “It’s a simple surgery,” said Guillermo Temperley,
director of the Hospital Municipal de Oncologia Marie Curie in
Buenos Aires in an interview yesterday with Canal 26 television.
“If you remove the gland or the lobe and she’s under control,
the president can live many years and die from something else,
but not from this.”  Fernandez’s condition isn’t expected to affect financial
markets, as the cabinet that took office with her this month
remains united and  Argentina ’s economy will continue growing
next year amid a global slump, said Leonardo Bazzi, head of
research at Buenos Aires brokerage Puente Hermanos SA.  “Bonds and stocks shouldn’t react much to these news,”
said Bazzi.  Today, Fernandez made her first appearance since
yesterday’s announcement to disclose a plan to refinance
provinces’ debt. She spoke at the presidential palace in Buenos
Aires. During the afternoon, she will hold meetings with her
ministers at her residence in Buenos Aires, Scoccimarro said.  Landslide Re-Election  Since Fernandez’s re-election, the yield on Argentina’s
government dollar bonds due in 2017 fell 50 basis points to 10.5
percent yesterday. The bonds were little changed today. This
year, the peso has weakened 7.4 percent to 4.2964 per dollar.  Fernandez was re-elected by a landslide after overseeing an
 economic expansion  that averaged an annual 5.6 percent during
her first four-year term. In that time she used record  revenue 
from booming soybean exports to boost spending on public works,
pensions and cash handouts to poor families. The expenditures
contributed to a consumer boom and helped fuel inflation that
economists estimate at an annual 25 percent.  Economic Challenges  The economic challenges for her second term are more
pronounced. Growth in 2012 is expected to slow to 2.8 percent,
from 7 percent in 2011, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  Policies introduced by Fernandez since her re-election have
further alienated foreign investors who’ve largely shunned the
country since its 2001 default on $95 billion in bonds.  Fernandez has placed limits on how much foreign currency
Argentines can buy in a bid to stem capital flight that doubled
to a record $18 billion in the first nine months of the year.
She’s also required exporters to repatriate revenue.  As a result of her measures, the central bank has become a
net buyer of dollars in the foreign-exchange market, purchasing
a record $413 million on Dec. 22, according to a bank official
who declined to be identified because he isn’t authorized to
speak publicly.  Boudou, 49, was Fernandez’s economy minister during her
first term. While he’s never held elected office before, he’s a
fervent ally of Fernandez. As head of the nation’s social
security agency in 2008, he led the government’s seizure of
about $24 billion in private pension funds.  “It is unlikely that Boudou will have much freedom or
autonomy” during Fernandez’s absence,  Daniel Kerner , a Buenos
Aires-based analyst for the Eurasia Group, wrote in a report.  Boudou will ensure that her policies continue during her
absence, Fernandez said today.  “Look how important it is for the vice president to think
the same way as the person who was elected to lead the destiny
of the country,” Fernandez said.  Fernandez is the latest South American leader to be
diagnosed with cancer. Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ,
Fernando Lugo of  Paraguay  and  Dilma Rousseff  of  Brazil  have all
been diagnosed, and last month former Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  underwent treatment for throat cancer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 