-- Army Breaks Its Silence on Suicide by Bullying: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2011-12-28T00:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/army-breaks-its-silence-on-suicide-by-bullying-margaret-carlson.html
The U.S. Army seems determined to
get it right this time.  Instead of lying, as the brass did in the 2004 death of Pat Tillman in  Afghanistan , the military owned up to the awful truth
that a 19-year-old private, Danny Chen, died at the hands of his
fellow soldiers. Unlike the celebrated professional football
player, Chen didn’t fall in a hail of friendly fire in a raid
gone horribly wrong but, according to the Army, alone in a guard
tower in Kandahar Province from a single bullet to the head.  In Tillman’s case, a fantasy was crafted by General Stanley McChrystal and the White House to make him a hero, at least
until they got through his televised memorial service. Their
mistake was to assume that Tillman’s family would stand for the
lie. They didn’t. They fought until the truth came out.  Chen’s parents, however, don’t have the resources of the
Tillmans. Neither speaks English, and both work in  New York ’s
Chinatown, his mother as a seamstress, his father as a cook.
They’ve relied on a neighborhood community organization to help
them deal with the death of their only child.  Their modest circumstances make it all the more noteworthy
that the Defense Department didn’t try to whitewash the tragedy.
Within three months of the death of the Chens’ only child, the
Army came back with charges, including manslaughter and
negligent homicide, against eight soldiers in his unit.  Pelted With Rocks  What the family has learned so far is chilling: Hours
before Chen’s death, his comrades in arms, who’d presumably
protect him to the death in a foxhole, instead dragged him out
of bed, forced him to crawl on the ground as they pelted him
with rocks and made him do pull-ups while holding water in his
mouth. All this, his tormentors say, because Chen had failed to
turn off the heater in the shower.  Yet the Chens are shocked by the Army’s initial conclusion
that their son took his own life. Although in letters home he
complained that he’d run out of ways to deal with the ridicule -
- there are few Asians in the military, and he was frequently
taunted -- he didn’t seem depressed.  The Army should be commended for not stonewalling. Yet how
is it possible that Chen could have been so abused without
anyone in authority knowing of his torment, in a place where
military discipline is enforced and where eyes are open 24/7?  I understand the silence. My brother, who suffered seizures
at birth that left him brain-damaged, was fair game in the
neighborhood. He couldn’t read, write, get a joke or learn how
to grip a bat. Many times, I would fight the kids who picked on
him and insist he be selected for a team. Other times, I wanted
to be part of the group and abandoned him. He would stand around
kicking holes in the dirt until it was time to go home. I never
told my mother. Neither did he.  We were both too ashamed, so it’s not such a surprise that
bullying goes unreported. Yet the military knows there are
terrible psychological problems ravaging the ranks. The high
suicide rate is one indication. According to a report from the
 Center for a New American Security , a member of the armed forces
committed suicide every 36 hours between 2005 and 2010; the
report released in October shows that there were a record 33
suicides of active and reserve personnel serving in the Army in
July of this year.  No one can ever know what pushes someone over the line, but
bullying, said Eugene Fidell, the former president of the
National Institute of Military Justice, is a recurring problem,
especially in a closed environment filled with the young and
vulnerable. “Can I imagine somebody being bullied in the
military to the point of taking his or her own life? Yes,”
Fidell said.  Zero Tolerance  At a news conference Dec. 21, Captain John Kirby, a
Pentagon spokesman, said there is a zero-tolerance policy toward
what he euphemistically called hazing. Nonetheless, he
recognized that it “occasionally occurred.” Defense Secretary
Leon Panetta said last week that the issue has his “ personal
attention ” and ordered military commanders to review anti-
bullying policies.  In 2010, two Army sergeants were imprisoned for three to
six months and one other was given a reduction in pay after a
private, Keiffer Wilhelm, killed himself 10 days after arriving
in  Iraq . His family said he was forced to run for miles with
rocks in his pockets. In October, several Marines were court-
martialed for the death of an Asian-American who killed himself
in April after what prosecutors called hazing.  Senator  Kirsten Gillibrand , a New York Democrat who serves
on the Armed Services Committee, said Chen’s death is a symptom
of a larger problem and last week she called on the Defense
Department to conduct a systemwide review of hazing.  As they should. It’s hard to know what’s more senseless,
the killing of Tillman by friendly fire or the killing of Chen
by unfriendly fire.  One of the eight soldiers charged in Chen’s death is an
officer, First Lieutenant Daniel J. Schwartz. So far, he’s been
charged only with dereliction of duty, even though he was the
one who could have stopped Chen’s ordeal.  Had one of the kids’ parents been in the park and joined in
the abuse of my brother, that wouldn’t be called dereliction of
duty. It would be called criminal.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 