-- Latvia to Delay Citadele Sale Amid EU Crisis, Dombrovskis Says
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2011-12-28T09:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/latvia-to-delay-citadele-sale-amid-eu-crisis-dombrovskis-says.html
Latvia will delay the sale of
Citadele Banka AS, the state-owned retail lender formed from
Parex Banka, because of the euro zone’s spreading crisis, Prime
Minister Valdis Dombrovskis said.  “It’s an obviously unfavorable situation” for the deal,
Dombrovskis said in an  interview  with Latvijas Radio today. The
government’s adviser, Nomura International Plc, recommended
postponing the sale to the second half of next year from early
2012, Dombrovskis said. The lender must be sold by 2014, he
said, citing an agreement with the European Commission.  Citadele was split from Parex, once the Baltic nation’s
second-biggest lender, after a run on deposits triggered a
government rescue in 2008. Latvia was then forced to turn to a
group led by the European Union and the  International Monetary
Fund  for a 7.5 billion-euro ($9.8 billion) bailout.  The decision to delay the sale is “a logical step and it
is in line with the interest of society and the state,” Juris
Jakobsons, chairman of Citadele, said in an e-mailed statement.  Citadele is 75 percent owned by the Latvian government,
with the rest held by the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development.  The lender’s credit rating was lowered two levels to B2
from Ba3 with a negative outlook on Dec. 16 by Moody’s Investors
Service, which cited “deterioration of asset quality beyond
Moody’s expectations at the bank’s inception in August 2010 and
the low capitalization levels.”  The share of problem loans, including impaired and
restructured credits as well as facilities overdue by 90 days,
reached 38 percent of Citadele’s total lending, according to
Moody’s.  “Rising problem loans, combined with the agency’s
expectation of continued low profitability, would exert
significant pressure on already low capital levels,” the rating
company said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  