-- Bacteria Tied to Baby’s Death Linked to Formula Since 1980s
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2011-12-28T16:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/bacteria-tied-to-baby-s-death-has-been-linked-to-formula-since-1980s.html
The rod-shaped bacteria that killed
a  Missouri  infant this month have infected at least 120 infants
worldwide since 1958 and have been linked to the use of baby
formula in the past, public-health researchers say.  The potential for the bacteria, called Cronobacter, to
infect infants through powdered baby formula has only been known
since the 1980s, said Kieran Jordan, a microbiologist at the
 Moorepark Food Research Centre  of Ireland’s Agriculture and Food
Development Authority, in a telephone interview. Cronobacter
ends up in powdered formula because it is well adapted at
surviving in very dry environments, he said.  The bacteria may grow rapidly if the powdered product, with
even small amounts of  Cronobacter , is reconstituted in water
that’s not hot enough to kill it, Jordan said. Once in a child,
the infection can target the brain and spinal cord, causing
swelling of the brain lining, health officials said.  “Once the baby powder is rehydrated it is a very rich
environment for the bacteria to grow,” said Jordan, who has
published multiple studies on Cronobacter.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration   advises  boiling water
for one minute and then letting it cool before mixing formula.
Studies suggest powder needs to be mixed with water heated to at
least 158 degrees Fahrenheit (70 degrees Celsius) to kill off
bacteria, the agency says on its website.  ‘Not Sterile’  Powdered  infant formula  is “not a sterile product,” said
Chris Braden, who heads the Division of Foodborne, Waterborne
and Environmental Diseases at the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention in Atlanta.  While formula sold as a liquid typically is pasteurized and
“a very low risk,” it’s also more expensive, he said. Powdered
formula should be used within a couple of hours of being mixed,
and parents should remember to wash hands and equipment like
bottles and nipples before preparation.  Not taking safety precautions can lead to permanent damage,
Braden said. Even when children survive the infection, they may
have neurological deficits, including developmental delays and
seizures, he said.  Proving infant formula caused a given case of Cronobacter
can be difficult because the bacterium is found “in the
kitchen, in soil, even around the house,” Braden said in a
telephone interview. It takes a “quite intensive
investigation” to prove a cause, he said.  Mead Johnston Results  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co.’s (MJN)  Enfamil Newborn was pulled
from store shelves by retailers last week after it was learned
that a baby from Lebanon, Missouri, had taken it before becoming
sick and dying. The company’s tests after the death showed no
evidence of the bacteria in the same batch of product as that
being evaluated by U.S. regulators, Mead Johnson said in a Dec.
25 statement.  State and federal regulators also are analyzing the case of
an Illinois newborn given formula who fell sick with the
infection during a trip in Missouri, and CDC officials yesterday
confirmed a third Cronobacter infection in an Oklahoma baby who
was hospitalized. While the Oklahoma child used powdered
formula, it wasn’t the same brand and there’s too little
evidence yet to say what caused the illness, Braden said.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , one of the retailers who pulled the
Mead Johnson product from store shelves, said it would await the
result of government tests before taking further action.  The CDC in 2009 estimated the number of infants infected
with the bacteria and reviewed a 2008 Cronobacter outbreak in
which two babies in  New Mexico  were confirmed with the illness.
One of the infants died and the other survived with severe brain
damage, according to the CDC’s Oct. 30, 2009, issue of  Morbidity
and Mortality Weekly Report , an agency publication.  ‘Only Risk Factor’  While investigators couldn’t pinpoint the source of the
bacteria, infant formula “was the only known risk factor in the
two cases,” according to the 2009 paper from the Atlanta-based
health agency.  In 2001, a Tennessee baby died following progressive  brain
damage  from Cronobacter infection. The baby was given powdered
formula from a batch that was found to contain the bacteria,
according to a study in the April 12, 2002, Morbidity and
Mortality Weekly Report.  The incident prompted Mead Johnson to voluntarily recall
the batch in March 2002, according to the CDC’s report. It also
heightened awareness among formula makers, said Susan Ricker,
Mead Johnson’s director of global quality services.  New Standards  “The industry started working with the regulators and the
health officials worldwide to make sure that new and effective
standards for Cronobacter testing were in place,” Ricker said
in a telephone interview.  Mead Johnson now performs 2,300 “quality-control checks”
on formula, including tests for nutritional quality and
microbiological contamination mandated by U.S. and international
standards, according to Ricker. The  company samples  300 grams of
each batch for Cronobacter contamination, equipment is washed
regularly and there’s a system in place to identify “critical
control points” where bacteria could enter.  “Once we have released a batch, we are stating it is safe
for our consumers,” Ricker said.  The Glenview, Illinois-based company also takes steps to
educate consumers about safety, said Chris Perille, company
spokesman, in an e-mail.  All labels indicate that powdered formulas aren’t sterile
and shouldn’t be fed to premature infants or those with immune
problems unless under medical supervision, he said. The labels
also cover proper hygiene, use and storage.  ‘Very Young Infants’  The bacteria, when found, usually will have infected babies
that are premature or have weak immune systems, said  Mary Alice
Smith , a toxicologist at the  University of Georgia .  “It does seem to be the very young infants that are most
susceptible to it,” said Smith, who has studied the bacterial
infection and has received research funding from Mead Johnson.  The blood brain barrier in newborn babies, as well as parts
of the gastrointestinal tract, may not be fully developed,
making them more susceptible to the bacteria than older children
and adults, Smith said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  