-- Banker Who Fled Kim Jong Il Says New Leader to Open N. Korea
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2011-12-29T05:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/banker-who-fled-kim-jong-il-says-new-leader-may-open-north-korean-economy.html
Kim Jong Un may relax state controls
over  North Korea ’s economy and ease the isolation entrenched by
his late father’s nuclear weapons program, according to a banker
who fled the communist state after years working for the regime.  Kim’s Swiss education and his reported fondness for
basketball -- a sign he’s a team player -- may make him more
open to change than his late father, Choi Se Woong, former
deputy governor of the North’s Korea Reunification Development
Bank, said in an interview in  Seoul  this week.  “It’s better for North Korea to have Kim Jong Un as their
leader than anyone else,” said Choi, 50, who defected to the
South in 1995 and is the son of a former North Korean finance
minister. “Kim Jong Un will seek to start a market economy but
it will be uniquely North Korean-style, different from  China ,
South Korea or any other capitalist country.”  Choi joins the growing number of people saying Kim will
push for a more open North Korea as he takes over from his
father Kim Jong Il, who passed away this month after a 17-year
reign. Templeton Emerging Markets Group Executive Chairman  Mark Mobius  said last week he expects the North to adopt China-style
deregulation, and a poll of South Koreans this month showed
almost half expect the North to become more open under new
leadership.  ‘Exquisite Toys’  North Korea’s gross domestic product, about  one-fortieth 
that of the South, shrank in four of the past five years after
attempts to liberalize the economy failed under its stated
policy of self-reliance. Still, it sits on deposits of minerals
estimated at almost 7,000 trillion won ($6 trillion), according
to  South Korea ’s state-run Korea Resources Corp.  “It’s a country with undiscovered minerals and the
technique to make missiles,” Choi said. ``Have you seen the
exquisite toys they make, like helicopters? Just think what it
would be like if these skills were applied to manufacturing.’’  Kim may pursue more projects such as in Gaeseong, home to a
joint industrial complex where South Korean-built factories
employ workers from the North, said Choi, now a managing
director at Eugene Investment & Futures Co. in Seoul.  Any economic opening in North Korea would follow Myanmar,
also known as Burma, another undemocratic Asian nation subject
to sanctions. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  this month
became the highest level U.S. official to visit Myanmar in more
than five decades as the nation moved to release political
prisoners. Clinton pledged to upgrade relations if Myanmar takes
further steps to ease repression.  ‘Last Stalinist Regime’  North Korea and Myanmar are among the few countries
remaining largely disconnected from international commerce in a
region that’s leading global economic growth.  “The sustainability of the world’s last Stalinist regime
will ultimately be under greater pressure following a transfer
of power and within the broader global context of political
change, with nascent political reforms in  Burma  evidence that
change is not limited to the  Middle East ,” Citigroup Inc.
analyst Tina Fordham in  London  wrote in a note this month.  The South’s Bank of Korea said today it will monitor
changes in the North because escalating geopolitical risks may
unnerve financial markets, which could cause consumption and
investment in the South to contract “severely.”  ‘Knock-on Effects’  “The bank will keep a close eye on the evolution and knock-
on effects of risk factors such as the situation in North
Korea,” the South Korean central bank said in a statement.  Kim, who’s thought to be 28 or 29, isn’t too young to lead
the nation because his father also had decision-making
responsibilities in his 20s, Choi said. Though  Kim Jong Il 
formally began to assume the nation’s highest posts three years
after North Korean founder Kim Il Sung died, he had been groomed
for decades.  The younger Kim may have attended the Liebefeld
Steinhoelzli school in Berne,  Switzerland  during the 1990s under
the alias Pak Un. Joao Micaelo, who attended the school at the
time, told the  Daily Telegraph  last year he and Pak Un bonded
over the difficulties of learning German, and their passion for
NBA basketball and  Michael Jordan .  North Korea, which refuses to abandon its nuclear weapons
program in the face of global sanctions, has depended on
economic handouts since the mid-1990s. Food aid is currently
needed for about 5 million people, with one in three children
physically stunted from a lack of nutrition, according to a
 report  from the  United Nations  and  World Food Programme .  North Korea’s Elite  Previous attempts to liberalize the North’s economy have
backfired. In 2002, North Korea started its “most drastic”
effort by letting prices and wages fluctuate, resulting in the
spread of the black market, said Bahng Tae Seop, a senior fellow
at the Samsung Economic Research Institute. That led to a
widening gap between the poor and elite, Bahng said.  Choi was one of the elite. The second son of Choi Hee
Byeok, who was finance minister during the 1980s, he attended
the nation’s top college in  Kim Il Sung  University. Then he was
a currency and gold dealer at Daesong Bank in charge of foreign-
currency management for the North’s Workers’ Party before rising
to the deputy governorship at the KRDB.  Though he fled 16 years ago to seek a better life, Choi
said he’s still in touch with North Korean mentality and expects
a smooth transition.  “North Koreans think it’s a ‘must’ that political power be
inherited to the heir,” he said. “Kim will probably open up
gradually and selectively, while tightening internal grip to
keep his power.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  