-- Bernanke’s Drive for Openness May Include More Briefings by Fed: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2011-12-28T16:39:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/bernanke-drive-for-greater-fed-openness-may-include-doubling-of-briefings.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  could double press briefings to improve understanding
of policy changes that may include signaling interest rates will
stay near zero longer, economists said.  Adding briefings “is a viable option because Bernanke has
been an effective communicator” of policy aims, said Sam Bullard, senior economist at Wells Fargo Securities. Fed
officials may also replace their pledge to keep the benchmark
rate close to zero through mid-2013 with a description of
circumstances under which rates would rise, said  Keith Hembre ,
chief economist at Nuveen Asset Management in Minneapolis.  Boosting the frequency of press conferences would give
Bernanke more opportunities to explain shifts in policy and the
Fed’s outlook for the economy. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
fell 6 percent over two days following the Fed’s statement in
September that the economy faced “significant downside risks,”
an assessment that wasn’t followed by a more detailed
explanation.  “He is a good teacher,” said  Diane Swonk , chief economist
in Chicago at Mesirow Financial Inc., which oversees about $59
billion in assets. “This is his strength.”  Fed policy makers may decide on changes as soon as their
two-day meeting ending Jan. 25, the first of the year, when
Bernanke gives a press conference a few weeks ahead of his
semiannual testimony to Congress.  While adding press conferences isn’t one of the options
mentioned in minutes of Fed discussions of the new
communications strategy since September, Swonk said she wouldn’t
be surprised if policy makers took such a step.  Europe Fallout  Bernanke and his colleagues are trying to protect the U.S.
from fallout from the European debt crisis. Reports today showed
 Japan ’s industrial production, retail sales and consumer prices
excluding fresh food all fell in November, while Switzerland’s
forward-looking economic indicator dropped to the lowest in more
than two years this month.  The  S&P 500 Index , while up 18 percent through yesterday
since touching a 2011 low on Oct. 4, has gained less than 1
percent this year, on pace for the worst annual performance
since 2008.  Fed policy makers meet eight times a year. The Fed
announced last March that Bernanke, 58, would hold press
conferences four times, following each two-day meeting, where
governors and regional presidents present revised projections
for economic growth, inflation and unemployment. Bernanke has
since answered media questions three times: in April, June and
November. The Fed doubled the frequency of forecasts in 2007 to
four from two.  Left a Gap  The calendar left a gap this year when resurgent turmoil in
 Europe  and the debate over raising the U.S. debt limit helped
lead to increased volatility in financial markets and slower-
than-anticipated U.S. economic growth.  Fed policy makers in August decided to replace their
statement that interest rates would stay very low for an
“extended period” with a date of at least mid-2013. In
September, they agreed to replace $400 billion of short-term
debt with longer-term securities in a move dubbed Operation
Twist.  When the Fed in August 2010 reversed plans to exit from
record stimulus, stocks initially fell for four straight days,
in part on a lack of information about the Fed’s objectives,
analysts said at the time.  Fed policy makers are debating two kinds of changes to
their public communications: how to express the length of time
that interest rates will stay close to zero, and how to
articulate a long-term strategy for monetary policy that may
include objectives for inflation and employment, according to
minutes of the Nov. 1-2 Federal Open Market Committee meeting.  Near Zero  Some officials wanted to replace the pledge to keep
interest rates near zero until at least mid-2013, which was
enacted in August, with language specifying a period of time,
according to records of the FOMC meeting.  Some FOMC members leaned toward additional easing, the
minutes said.  Chicago  Fed President  Charles Evans  has been the
most vocal official in saying the central bank should keep rates
low until inflation or unemployment reach specified levels.  Also, a majority of officials last month “agreed that it
could be beneficial” to publish a statement on the Fed’s policy
approach and discussed the pros and cons of such strategies as
an explicit numerical inflation goal, something used by the
 European Central Bank  and  Bank of England . The complication for
the Fed is its added legal mandate of fostering maximum
employment, the minutes show.  Future Path  In addition, “participants generally expressed interest in
providing additional information to the public about the likely
future path of the target federal funds rate,” the November
minutes said.  Central bankers are likely to start publishing projections
for the  interest rate  early next year, said  Dean Maki , chief
U.S. economist at  Barclays Capital  in  New York .  While it isn’t clear the Fed would double forecasts to
eight times a year, “there certainly is a strong argument to
made for increasing the frequency,” Maki said. Additional press
conferences are likely to be part of such a change, “but we
haven’t heard anything from them that they’re thinking this,”
said Maki, a former Fed researcher.  Maki said publishing the interest-rate forecasts “could
come as soon as January,” or sometime in early 2012.  David Skidmore , a Fed spokesman, declined to comment on
potential changes to central bank communications.  Recent data, including jobless claims and housing starts,
indicate the expansion is accelerating. Such improvements don’t
necessarily mean the Fed will want to shorten its commitment to
record-low interest rates.  ‘Some Point Beyond’  The Fed chairman said at his Nov. 2 press conference that
the FOMC statement “says at least mid-2013” and that “clearly
it could well be some point beyond that.”  The  U.S. economy  will probably grow at a 3.6 percent rate
during the fourth quarter,  Macroeconomic Advisers , a St. Louis-
based forecasting company, said in a Dec. 23 note. That would be
the fastest rate since the second quarter of 2010 and double the
third quarter’s 1.8 percent growth.  Extending near-zero interest rates would “run a little bit
counter to the improved tone of economic data over the course of
the last couple of months,” said Hembre, a former  Minneapolis 
Fed researcher who also serves as chief investment strategist at
Nuveen, which oversees about $207 billion.  While Bernanke already has a press conference scheduled for
January, having more briefings would help the public understand
the Fed’s strategy, said  John Ryding , chief economist and co-
founder of RDQ Economics LLC in New York.  “If you’re trying to communicate, then to me that would be
a sensible step,” said Ryding, a former researcher at the Fed
and Bank of England.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  