-- Billionaire Ambanis Dancing at Ancestral Home Signals Thaw
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p ,   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2011-12-29T10:51:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/billionaire-ambanis-dance-pray-at-ancestral-home-signaling-thaw.html
Billionaires Mukesh and  Anil Ambani 
danced and prayed in their ancestral village on the eve of their
father’s 80th birth anniversary in the strongest display of
bonhomie since ending a feud that split the Reliance empire.  The brothers, who have a combined wealth of $28.5 billion
and control the world’s biggest oil refining complex and  India ’s
second-largest phone company, were seen together on Dec. 27 for
the first time since they pledged harmony in May 2010.
Yesterday, they inaugurated a memorial to the late Dhirajlal
Ambani in Chorwad in the western state of Gujarat.  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM) , controlled by 52 year-old
Anil, climbed to a two-week high on Dec. 27 on speculation that
improved sibling relations may help the company clinch a deal to
lease mobile-phone towers to  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , run by
Mukesh, 54. The elder Ambani operates India’s biggest natural
gas field, while Anil needs the fuel for his power plants.  “It will matter to shareholders if it is a business
reunion,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , strategist at SMC
Global Securities Ltd. in  New Delhi . “That would be a huge
positive rerating opportunity for Anil Ambani group stocks. From
Reliance Industries’ perspective, it would be an opportunity to
expand their dream of entering into telecom.”  When India’s second-largest business group split in 2005,
Mukesh got the Reliance group’s petrochemicals, oil and gas
units, while Anil took the power, financial services,
telecommunications, and entertainment businesses. Both retained
rights to the Reliance name.  Last year the brothers scrapped agreements that prevented
them from competing in similar businesses.  Dandiya Dance  Mukesh Ambani and Anil yesterday traveled in separate
Mercedes-Benz cars to pray and have breakfast at the local
Ambaji Mata temple after spending the previous evening
performing the dandiya, a traditional Gujarati folk dance, along
with their wives, mother and sister, Bloomberg UTV showed.  The Ambanis attended a discourse on the importance of
family values and harmony by Rameshbhai Oza, their spiritual
adviser, the Economic Times reported today.  Anil flew in a Reliance Industries helicopter yesterday
morning to offer prayers at the ancient Hindu temple of Somnath,
Parimal Nathwani, group president for corporate affairs at
Reliance Industries, said in an interview in Chorwad yesterday.
Security arrangements in the village were managed by the
officials from the company’s refinery complex at Jamnagar and 60
local volunteers, he said.  Daljeet Singh, a spokesman for Anil Ambani-controlled
Reliance ADA Group, declined to comment.  Brotherly Love  Mukesh and Anil visiting their ancestral home together
shows “there is love among the brothers,” the Economic Times
cited their mother, Kokila Ambani, saying in Chorwad. The family
is “united,” she said, according to a Dec. 27  report .  Reliance Industries  shares (RIL)  fell 3.7 percent to 711.9 rupees
in  Mumbai  trading, the lowest since March 20, 2009. Reliance
Infrastructure Ltd., the Anil Ambani-controlled builder of a
mass rapid transit system in Mumbai, dropped 4 percent to 344.15
rupees and Reliance Communications lost 5.3 percent to 68.1
rupees. the benchmark  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  declined 1.2 percent.  Shares of Reliance Industries have more than tripled in
value since the brothers divided the family business in June
2005. Anil’s flagship Reliance Communications has slumped 78
percent since it started trading in 2006.  $1 Billion Home  Chorwad, a coastal fishing village where Dhirajlal Ambani,
known as Dhirubhai, grew up, lies 855 kilometers (530 miles)
northwest by road from Mumbai, where Mukesh has built a
skyscraper home. The building equipped with helipads and a movie
theater cost $1 billion, according to Forbes.  Dhirubhai founded Reliance Commercial Corp. to trade spices
and yarn in 1959, the year Anil was born, and built an empire
with businesses ranging from textiles to petrochemicals. His two
sons fought for control of the group after he died in 2002
without leaving a will. They split the family business three
years later in a settlement brokered by their mother.  In the following five years their battle over the price and
supply of natural gas from Reliance Industries’ assets halted
plans for a north Indian power plant, while a merger between
Anil’s Reliance Communications and  South Africa ’s MTN Group Ltd.
was scuttled after Mukesh said he had the first right to buy
shares in his brother’s company.  “It looks like they’ve reconciled to working together, and
that could be the best thing for them individually,” said U.R. Bhat, managing director of Dalton Capital Advisors India Pvt. in
Mumbai. “Old wounds can’t completely be healed, but they can be
stitched. There’s a scar nevertheless.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  