-- BofA, BP, Citigroup, Samsung, Goldman, Intel in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2011-12-28T13:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/bofa-bp-citigroup-samsung-electronics-goldman-intel-in-court-news.html
A group of institutional investors
including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  persuaded a federal appeals court to
consider its request to return an $8.5 billion bond settlement
with  Bank of America (BAC)  Corp. to state court for a judge’s
approval.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  New York  yesterday agreed to
review the appeal of U.S. District Judge William Pauley’s ruling
in October to keep the case in federal court for review, rather
than remanding it to New York State Supreme Court.  The proposed agreement, first filed in New York state
court, would settle claims from investors in the mortgage bonds
of Countrywide Financial Corp., which Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America bought in 2008. The deal was reached with
the institutional investor group that includes BlackRock and
Pacific Investment Management Co. and would apply to 530
mortgage-securitization trusts.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the trustee for the
mortgage-bond trusts, filed the settlement in state court and
planned to seek approval of it there. Under the state
proceeding, approval would bind investors outside the group that
negotiated the agreement.  An investor group, Walnut Place LLC and related entities,
moved the case to federal court and is fighting the bid to
return it to state court.  The case is Bank of New York Mellon v. Walnut Place LLC,
11-4554, 11-4571, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  BP’s McKay to Testify at Gulf Oil Spill Liability Trial  BP America Inc. Chairman and President Lamar McKay,  BP
Plc (BP/) ’s highest-ranking U.S. executive, was subpoenaed to testify
at the February trial that will determine liability for the 2010
Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  BP faces at least 350 lawsuits by thousands of coastal
property owners and businesses claiming damages from the more
than 4.1 million barrels of oil that gushed from the company’s
well off the Louisiana coast last year.  The lawsuits were consolidated for pretrial processing by
U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans. Also sued in
the combined cases are  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , which owned the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which
provided cementing services to the well.  Barbier scheduled a nonjury trial to begin Feb. 27 to
determine which companies share blame for the explosion. The
judge has said he’ll use findings from the liability trial to
guide decisions in later trial phases over damages caused by
efforts to contain and clean up the historic spill, which killed
11 workers and caused the worst offshore oil spill in U.S.
history.  BP, based in  London , accepted responsibility for the spill
and set up a $20 billion fund to compensate victims for spill-
related losses. BP sued Vernier, Switzerland-based Transocean
and Houston-based Halliburton on claims its contractors share
blame for the disaster and should share the costs.  Transocean and Halliburton have repeatedly denied any fault
for the explosion or spill in court filings.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  BP Released From Probation in Prudhoe Bay Spill by Judge  BP Plc  didn’t violate a plea agreement in a criminal case
over a 2006 spill in Alaska’s Prudhoe Bay, a judge ruled,
rejecting a request by federal prosecutors to revoke the
company’s probation.  BP pleaded guilty in 2007 to violating the  Clean Water Act 
by spilling 200,000 gallons of oil from its Prudhoe Bay field
into water on Alaska’s North Slope in 2006. It paid a $12
million fine and $8 million for restitution and community
service and was put on three years’ probation.  The government asked U.S. District Judge Ralph Beistline in
Anchorage to revoke the probation, saying London-based BP broke
the agreement when it spilled about 13,500 gallons of oil near
Prudhoe Bay in November 2009. Beistline rejected the U.S.
request yesterday and released the company from probation.  “The court certainly cannot fault the government for the
position it has taken in this matter for there clearly were
reasons for concern,” Beistline wrote in an order. “There can
be no doubt that the government takes its responsibility
seriously to monitor the industry and to ensure compliance with
environmental laws.”  “We are pleased with the decision,”  Steve Rinehart , BP
spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We know that the privilege of
working in Alaska comes with a responsibility to maintain high
standards. We will continue our commitment to running safe and
compliant operations.”  Wyn Hornbuckle, a Justice Department spokesman, didn’t
return an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. BP Exploration (Alaska) Inc., 3:07-
cr-00125, U.S. District Court, District of Alaska (Anchorage).  Citigroup Suit Should Be Put on Hold During Appeal, SEC Says  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission asked a federal
appeals court to put an emergency hold on its lawsuit against
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  over mortgage-backed securities, and to expedite
its appeal of a judge’s rejection of a $285 million settlement
in the case.  Citigroup consented to the requests, the SEC said in a
filing yesterday with the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York. The
agency is challenging U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff’s refusal
last month to approve an accord resolving claims that New York-
based Citigroup misled investors in a $1 billion financial
product linked to risky mortgages. It said halting the case was
necessary because Rakoff told Citigroup to respond to the SEC’s
complaint next week.  “The commission seeks a stay on an emergency basis because
the Jan. 3 deadline for Citigroup to answer creates an exigency
that threatens the commission with additional irreparable
harm,” the regulator said in court papers.  In his Nov. 28 ruling, Rakoff criticized the agency’s
practice of settling without requiring the subject of the
allegations to admit wrongdoing. The Manhattan judge said the
Citigroup settlement didn’t provide him with “any proven or
admitted facts” to inform his judgment.  The SEC said it wanted to preserve agency resources by
putting the case on hold while the appeals court considers
Rakoff’s ruling.  “We respectfully disagree with the court’s ruling and
believe the settlement fully complies with long-established
legal standards,” Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for
Citigroup, said in an e-mailed statement. “In the event the
case is tried, we would present substantial factual and legal
defenses to the charges.”  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 11-05227, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit (New York).  Sharp, Samsung Agree on $539 Million to End Antitrust Cases  Sharp Corp .,  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and five other makers
of liquid crystal display panels used in computers and
televisions agreed to pay $538.6 million to settle antitrust
claims by indirect purchasers.  Earlier this month, the panel makers agreed to pay $388
million to settle price-fixing claims by direct buyers of the
products as part of a series of cases consolidated in federal
court in  San Francisco . Under the new agreement, about $501
million will be available for partial refunds to consumers and
about $37 million to compensate governments and other public
entities for damages, according to a court filing dated Dec. 23.  The companies allegedly fixed prices of thin-film liquid
crystal display panels, driving up prices for purchasers of
televisions, notebook computers and monitors from 1999 to 2006,
according to a class action, or group, lawsuit filed in 2007.
The attorneys general of eight states, including Florida,
California and New York, were part of the settlement agreements
with the manufacturers.  “Price-fixing is detrimental to Florida’s consumers,
governmental agencies, and the economy,” Pam Bondi, Florida’s
attorney general, said in a statement. “I am pleased that we
will be able to return funds to those who were harmed by this
illegal and deceptive behavior.”  New York taxpayers may receive as much as $11 million from
the settlement, according to a release from the state’s attorney
general,  Eric Schneiderman .  Besides the $538.6 million settlement of the antitrust
claims, five of the companies also agreed to pay more than $14
million in civil fines and penalties to New York, according to
the statement from Schneiderman.  “This price-fixing scheme manipulated the playing field
for businesses that abide by the rules, and left consumers to
pay artificially higher costs for televisions, computers and
other electronics,” Schneiderman said in the statement.  The case is In Re TFT-LCD (Flat Panel) Antitrust
Litigation, 07-01827, U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of California (San Francisco).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Hawker Beechcraft Sues U.S. Over Aircraft Contract Exclusion  Hawker Beechcraft Co., the jet maker part-owned by  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , said a unit asked a federal judge to block the
U.S. Air Force from awarding an almost $1 billion contract for
light attack aircraft, claiming the government won’t say why it
was excluded from consideration.  Hawker Beechcraft Defense Co. sued the U.S. yesterday in
the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in Washington challenging the
Air Force’s exclusion of the Beechcraft AT-6 from the Light Air
Support competition. The lawsuit was filed after the U.S.
Government Accountability Office on Dec. 22 dismissed the
company’s bid protest.  “We were relying on their investigation to provide
transparency into what has been a bidding process of
inconsistent, irregular and constantly changing requirements,”
Bill Boisture, chairman and chief executive officer of Hawker
Beechcraft Co., said in an e-mailed statement. We “continue to
believe that our exclusion from this important contract was made
without basis in process or fact,” he said.  The Air Force, in a one-page memorandum, notified the
company on Nov. 1 that the AT-6 was excluded from consideration,
according to a court filing.  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Hawker Beechcraft Defense Company LLC v. U.S.,
11-897, U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here. For the latest lawsuits news,
click here.  On The Docket  Intel’s February Antitrust Trial Canceled by U.S. Judge  A federal judge ruled that  Intel Corp. (INTC)  won’t face a
February trial in an antitrust lawsuit filed by New York state
officials who claim the chipmaker attempted to monopolize the
market.  U.S. District Judge Leonard Stark in Wilmington, Delaware,
canceled Dec. 23 the Feb. 14 trial while lawyers for Intel, the
world’s largest semiconductor maker, and the state of New York
set up a schedule to hold arguments about whether the case
should be dismissed.  New York sued Santa Clara, California-based Intel in
November 2009, accusing it of using threats and billions of
dollars in illegal payments to pressure and unfairly persuade
computer manufacturers to use the company’s chips.  An Intel spokeswoman, Laura Anderson, didn’t return calls
seeking comment on the judge’s ruling. Danny Kanner, a spokesman
for New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, declined in an
e-mail to comment on the decision.  Intel has battled allegations over the years that its
salespeople engaged in anticompetitive behavior. The company has
paid more than $2.7 billion to resolve antitrust litigation over
its chips.  Schneiderman’s predecessor, Andrew Cuomo, accused Intel of
engaging in illegal business practices to cement its dominance
of the market for microprocessor chips. Those tactics stifled
competition from Advanced Micro Devices Inc. and artificially
inflated the prices consumers paid for computers, Cuomo, who is
now New York’s governor, said in the suit.  Stark already threw out some of the claims, including one
seeking triple damages for anticompetitive acts. The judge also
narrowed the scope of the case by saying New York can only focus
on computer purchases for a three-year period. State officials
had sought to use a six-year period.  The case is State of New York v. Intel Corp., 09-cv-827,
U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Litigation Departments  Lehman Pays Marsal Firm Almost $500 Million to Manage Bankruptcy  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  has paid almost half a
billion dollars in fees to restructuring firm Alvarez & Marsal
LLC during its bankruptcy, according to a court filing.  The firm, whose co-founder  Bryan Marsal  runs the defunct
investment bank, charged $496.2 million in fees for 38 1/2
months of “interim management,” including $8.6 million in
November, according to the filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Manhattan Dec. 23.  Lehman, which has spent more than $1.5 billion on fees
since filing the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in September
2008, paid $30.6 million to lawyers and managers in November,
according to the filing.  The Lehman bankruptcy became America’s most costly in April
2010, when it topped the $757 million cost of energy trader
 Enron Corp. ’s three-year liquidation, according to data compiled
by  Lynn LoPucki , a bankruptcy-law professor at the University of
California, Los Angeles.  Fees earned by Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, based in New
York, total $366.6 million so far for acting as Lehman’s lead
bankruptcy law firm, including $8 million in November.  Marsal, who bills Lehman hourly, has said he will start
distributing some cash to the defunct firm’s creditors by next
year, more than three years after the bankruptcy filing. He has
court approval for a $65 billion liquidation plan that would pay
the average Lehman creditor less than 18 cents on the dollar in
the next few years, according to court papers.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  