-- Bovespa Stock-Index Futures Decline as Commodities Prices Drop
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2011-12-28T12:42:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/bovespa-stock-index-futures-decline-as-commodities-prices-drop.html
Bovespa-index futures fell,
indicating the equity gauge may retreat from yesterday’s gain,
as lower commodities prices dimmed the outlook for Brazilian
raw-material producers.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA ,  Brazil ’s state-controlled oil
company, fell in Frankfurt trading as  oil prices  declined.
State-controlled electricity utility  Cia. Energetica de Minas
Gerais  may move after saying in a regulatory filing it paid 67.2
million reais ($36.1 million) for a 4.4 percent stake in gas
distributor Cia. de Gas de Minas Gerais.  Bovespa futures fell 0.2 percent to 58,590 at 10:26 a.m. in
Sao Paulo. The real was little changed at 1.8612 per  U.S.
dollar .  “The external outlook is still worrisome, problems in
 Europe  are still there and nothing structural has changed,”
Rogerio Freitas, a partner at hedge fund Teorica Investimentos,
said by phone from Rio de Janeiro.  Oil declined from a six-week high as concerns eased that
 Iran  will block the Strait of Hormuz, a corridor linking the
Persian Gulf with international ports. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI index of 24 raw materials fell 0.4 percent.  The Bovespa entered a bull market in October after gaining
22 percent from a two-year low on Aug. 8 as interest-rate cuts
in Brazil and signs of progress in solving Europe’s debt crisis
buoyed demand for equities. The measure is still down 16 percent
this year on concern flagging global commodity demand and
quickening inflation will hurt corporate earnings growth.  The index trades at 10.2 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, in line with the ratio for MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21
developing nations’ equities, weekly data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Traders moved 3.24 billion reais in stocks in  Sao Paulo 
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a
daily average this year of 6.56 billion reais through Dec. 15,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  