-- Brazil’s Prime Brokerage Is in Talks to Be Sold, CEO Reis Says
-- B y   F e l i p e   F r i s c h
-- 2011-12-28T20:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/brazil-s-prime-brokerage-is-in-talks-to-be-sold-ceo-reis-says.html
Prime SA Corretora de Cambio e
Valores, the  Brazilian brokerage (PETR4)  owned by former  Rio de Janeiro 
Exchange President Carlos Reis, is in talks to be sold as costs
rise.  “I’ve been studying all possibilities,” Reis, Prime’s
chief executive officer, said yesterday in a telephone interview
from Rio de Janeiro. “All brokerages are in talks, except for
the big, foreign and bank-owned ones.”  The average daily volume of equity trading on the Sao Paulo
exchange is at 6.19 billion ($3.3 billion) this year, down 5.9
percent from 6.58 billion in 2010, according to  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) 
data. The benchmark Bovespa index has fallen 18 percent this
year, after rising 1 percent in 2010 and 83 percent in 2009.  Larger brokerages attract the more “profitable business,”
Reis said. “I’m not drowning, none of the brokerages are, but
no one likes to lose money or break even every month.”  Um Investimentos, another Rio de Janeiro-based brokerage,
has also been contacted by a firm, controlling partner Fernando
Opitz said.  “We saw an interest from a financial institution, which
wanted to know whether we’d be willing to start talks,” Opitz
said on a telephone interview yesterday, declining to disclose
the name of the firm. “I don’t have an exact idea of what their
goal is.”  XP Investimentos CCTVM SA’s partner and general director,
Guilherme Benchimol, said the firm is in talks to acquire one
brokerage in  Sao Paulo  and one in Rio before the end of the year
as it seeks to challenge banks in the business of investment
services.  “Every month, brokerages lack revenue, so they have to
keep innovating”, Prime’s Reis said. “But someone with more
courage can make that stand up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Felipe Frisch in Sao Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  