-- Calgary Oil Transforms Canada to Energy Superpower of Immigrants
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2011-12-28T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/calgary-oil-transforming-canada-to-energy-superpower-built-with-immigrants.html
Alberta Premier Alison Redford says
oil is opening Canada’s fastest-growing province to the world
for the first time.  The population of Canada’s main oil-producing region has
soared by 37 percent to about 3.7 million in the past decade as
companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Statoil ASA (STL)  attracted
workers from  China ,  Venezuela  and the  Philippines  to develop the
largest oil reserves outside the  Middle East .  “Most people around the world believe that it has been a
fairly parochial jurisdiction,” Redford, 46, said during an
interview at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York . “We are now
going through a generational change in politics and in business.
We have an ability to embrace the world in a way that we’ve
never done.”  Alberta, one of only two land-locked Canadian provinces, is
turning a farming and cowboy image on its head as the booming
energy sector attracts global attention to its oil sands and
welcomes newcomers to fill jobs.  The immigrant population of Calgary is growing faster than
any Canadian city as  oil companies  fill as many as 100,000 jobs
over the next eight years, according to a study by Deloitte and
Petroleum Human Resources Council of  Canada .  “I came here because it’s easy to get a job,” said Hong
Wei Pei, a 36-year-old accounting clerk from China who arrived
in Calgary with her husband and two children in 2009. “Most
people here are immigrants and the locals are friendly and
welcoming. If you work hard you’ll be successful.”  Alberta has led economic growth in Canada in recent years
and per-capita gross domestic product, at C$70,824 ($69,462)
last year, is 75 percent higher than  Quebec ’s and tops among
Canadian provinces.  Changing Face  The investment and immigration has changed the face of the
province. Albertans elected Canada’s first Muslim mayor to lead
Calgary, the province’s largest city, and in Redford has its
first female premier, one of only three in Canada. That speaks
to the opportunities for immigrants and minorities in the
province, says Calgary Mayor Naheed Nenshi, whose parents
emigrated from  Tanzania .  “There are very few places in the world where a kid from a
minority ethnic community, a minority faith community, could be
elected your mayor without anyone blinking an eye,” said Nenshi,
in a speech on Oct. 26. “It’s up to us to model to the rest of
the world a place where multiculturalism works.”  Visible minorities make up about a quarter of the
population of Calgary, which was ranked the world’s fifth-most
livable city by The Economist magazine this year.  Young Region  One reason why Alberta has been successful at integrating
immigrants is because the region is so young, says David Liepert,
a Calgary-based anesthesiologist who adopted the Islamic
religion 16 years ago. Alberta, named after Queen Victoria’s
fourth daughter, became a province in 1905 with a population of
about 100,000.  “Alberta is still building a society and that makes it
open,” said Liepert, 50. “It still has aspects of the frontier
culture. It doesn’t matter what your background is.”  The original European settlers, who displaced nomadic
native tribes including the Blackfoot and Sarcee nations, had to
work together and cooperate in order to manage their farming
businesses. They endured a harsh climate where winter
temperatures often drop to -40 degrees Celsius (-40 Fahrenheit),
said Murray Edwards, a Calgary-based billionaire and vice
chairman of  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd., (CNQ)  an oil sands
producer.  Prairie Entrepreneurs  “There’s a spirit here that I call ‘prairie
entrepreneurialism,’” said Edwards, in an interview. “The
original homesteaders were fiercely independent, but open to new
ideas based on their merits -- not where they come from. That
value set has survived to this day.”  Agriculture, including cattle farming, wheat and barley,
was the foundation of the local economy a century ago and now
accounts for only about 15 percent of the provincial economic
output. Though Calgary still holds an annual cowboy fair, known
as the Stampede, the main economic driver is now tied to the oil
and natural gas sector, which generates about a third of
government revenue and employs one in six workers, according to
government statistics.  The price of oil, now hovering at $100 a barrel, has helped
make the province Canada’s third-largest economy, just behind
Quebec, which has twice the population.  “Alberta has got a lot going for it,” said  Craig Alexander , chief economist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , the
country’s second largest. “It’s very pro-business and continues
to attract immigrants.”  Investment Bankers  The region is luring bankers too. A generation ago,
businesses in Calgary had to go “cap-in-hand” to financiers in
Toronto for money, Mike Tims, chairman of Peters & Co., a
Calgary-based investment bank, said in an interview. Now, global
investment banks including Rothschild,  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  have set up shop in Calgary, helping to
make the city a growing investment center, he said.  Over the next three years, Alberta will probably be among
Canada’s fastest-growing regions, along with its eastern
neighbor Saskatchewan and the Atlantic province of  Newfoundland ,
which is also benefiting from an oil boom, Toronto-Dominion
predicts.  “We have the most highly educated population per capita in
Canada; many of those people are not originally from Canada,”
Redford said in the Nov. 15 interview.  As Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , who represents a Calgary
district in parliament, forges ahead with a vision to make
Canada an “energy superpower,” Alberta, with its 173 billion
barrels of recoverable crude, stands to gain. Annual investment
in the  oil sands  is about C$20 billion, filling government
coffers and driving demand for engineers, electricians and
construction workers.  Not All Cowboys  “We have to continue to attract people from around the
world,” said Calgary’s Nenshi, a former consultant at McKinsey
& Co. “People are attracted to invest in places because of the
great quality of life.”  Calgary has added cultural organizations such as the
National Music Centre, as well as a growing number of art
galleries and sports facilities. With the  Rocky Mountains  on the
horizon during the average of 297 sunny days a year, the most of
any large Canadian city, skiing and hiking are a 45-minute drive
away.  “Apart from the weather, Alberta is a very favored
place,” said Tims. “There’s certainly a changing perception
that we’re not all cowboys.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  