-- CDR Financial’s Rubin Can’t Delay Trial for Dying Wife
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2011-12-28T23:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/cdr-financial-s-david-rubin-loses-bid-to-delay-trial-for-dying-wife.html
CDR Financial Products Inc.’s David
Rubin, who says his wife is in the final stages of terminal
cancer, lost a bid to postpone his trial on bid-rigging charges,
which is scheduled to begin next week in  New York .  A federal appeals court in  Manhattan  declined Rubin’s
request that it order U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  to
grant the trial delay.  “While the circumstances here might well warrant an
adjournment of the trial, we cannot say that the experienced
trial judge’s refusal to grant a continuance constitutes an
exceptional circumstance amounting to a judicial usurpation of
power or a clear abuse of discretion,” a three-judge panel of
the court said in a one-paragraph order on Dec. 23.  The trial, which is scheduled to start with jury selection
Jan. 3, is expected to take two months. Gail Rubin, David
Rubin’s wife of 26 years and the mother of his seven children,
is in the final stages of pancreatic cancer in  California , where
they live, his lawyers said in papers filed with the appeals
court. Rubin claims his wife’s illness and concerns for his
children will make it impossible for him to adequately
participate in his defense.  Bradley Simon  and Brian Waller, lawyers who represent
Rubin, didn’t immediately return a message today seeking comment
on the appeals court decision. In papers filed with the appeals
court Dec. 23, they said their client hasn’t been able to help
them prepare and isn’t likely to attend the trial if it goes
forward as planned.  Rubin, the founder of  Beverly Hills , California-based CDR,
and two other employees were charged along with the company as
part of an investigation into bid- and auction-rigging in the
municipal  bond market . Rubin, the firm’s former chief financial
officer, took kickbacks for running sham auctions for the
investments, prosecutors said. All pleaded not guilty.  “Whenever the trial is held, it will pull Mr. Rubin away
from his family, either during his wife’s final days or his
children’s first days without their mother,” Marrero said in an
order denying Rubin’s request for a delay earlier this month.
“Of course neither situation is desirable, but trial is
unavoidable.”  The case is U.S. v. Rubin, 1:09-cr-01058, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 