-- Chavez: U.S. May Be Behind Leaders’ Cancer
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2011-12-28T19:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/chavez-u-s-may-be-behind-s-america-leaders-cancer.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
hinted that the U.S. may be behind a “very strange” bout of
cancer affecting several leaders aligned with him in South
America.  Chavez, speaking a day after Argentine President  Cristina
Fernandez de Kirchner  was diagnosed with thyroid cancer, said
the Central Intelligence Agency was behind chemical experiments
in Guatemala in the 1940s and that it’s possible that in years
to come a plot will be uncovered that shows the U.S. spread
cancer as a political weapon against its critics.  “It’s very difficult to explain, even with the law of
probabilities, what has been happening to some of us in  Latin
America ,” Chavez said in a nationally televised speech to the
military. “Would it be so strange that they’ve invented
technology to spread cancer and we won’t know about it for 50
years?”  Chavez, who was diagnosed with an undisclosed form of
cancer in June and had a baseball-sized tumor removed in Cuba,
has called for a regional summit of leaders who have battled
cancer including Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff , her
predecessor Luiz Inacio Lula Da Silva and Paraguay’s Fernando
Lugo.  “I’m just sharing my thoughts, but it’s very, very, very
strange,” Chavez said. “Evo take care of yourself, Correa, be
careful, we just don’t know,” he said, referring to Evo Morales
and  Rafael Correa , the leaders of Bolivia and Ecuador.  Thomas Mittnacht, press director at the U.S. embassy in
Caracas, declined to comment when reached by telephone.  Re-election Bid  Chavez, a former tank commander who has led South America’s
largest oil producer since 1999 and will seek a third
consecutive six-year term in October elections, says that the
U.S. was involved in a coup against him in 2002 that briefly
ousted the socialist leader before he was reinstated by the
military and supporters.  The 57-year-old leader also accuses the U.S. of plotting an
invasion of  Venezuela  to capture its oil reserves.  Chavez, who continues to send the U.S. more than 800,000
barrels of oil a day, said that former Cuban leader  Fidel Castro 
has warned him about assassination attempts after surviving what
he has claimed are hundreds of plots by the U.S. since he took
power in 1959.  “Fidel always tells me, ‘Chavez be careful, they’ve
developed technology, be careful with what you eat, they could
stick you with a small needle,’” the Venezuelan leader said
today. “In any case, I’m not accusing anyone, I’m just using my
freedoms to reflect and issue comments on very strange events
that are hard to explain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 