-- S&P Withdraws Cheung Kong’s Credit Rating on Lack of Access to Company
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2011-12-29T08:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/cheung-kong-has-s-p-credit-rating-withdrawn-on-lack-of-access-to-company.html
Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd. (1) ,
controlled by billionaire  Li Ka-shing , had its long-term
corporate  credit rating  withdrawn by  Standard & Poor’s , which
said it hasn’t been able to “accurately assess” the credit
quality of the Hong Kong developer.  The ratings company withdrew the A- “unsolicited” rating,
which was based on publicly available information because it had
“no access to the company management for the past three
years,” S&P said in a statement yesterday.  “We can’t evaluate Cheung Kong’s liquidity accurately due
to recent revisions to our liquidity criteria as the company has
made material acquisitions in the past 12 months and continues
to be active on the acquisition trail,” analysts Christopher Lee and Bei Fu wrote in the statement.  Hong Kong’s second-biggest builder by market value has
spent more than HK$22 billion ($2.83 billion) buying land in the
city this year, the company’s interim report shows. It’s seeking
acquisitions in  China  as the country’s liquidity crunch make it
a “golden time” for  Cheung Kong , Executive Director Justin Chiu said in November.  “Of course if you can’t get access to management for three
years, you won’t be getting a very clear picture of the
company,” said Lee Wee Liat, Hong Kong-based property analyst
at Samsung Securities Ltd. “They have done a bit of
acquisitions lately but that didn’t materially weaken their
balance sheet. They still have one of the strongest balance
sheets among Hong Kong developers.”  Conservative Profile  Cheung Kong had a debt-to-common-equity ratio of 11 percent
at the end of June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That compares with 20 percent for Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd.,
the biggest developer in  Hong Kong , and 15 percent for Hang Lung
Properties Ltd., the third largest.  Cheung Kong’s S$730 million ($561 million) of 5.125
perpetual notes, sold to investors at par in September, were
little changed today, yielding 5.098 percent compared with 5.021
percent on Sept. 23, Nomura Holdings Inc. prices show. Its S$180
million of 2.585 percent, five-year bonds due July 2016 are
yielding 3.122 percent today versus 3.134 percent as of
yesterday’s close, DBS Group Holdings Ltd. prices on Bloomberg
show.  Cheung Kong discontinued S&P’s ratings services in 2009
because its “conservative financial profile” meant it didn’t
need a rating, Wendy Tong Barnes, a spokeswoman for the company,
said in a statement yesterday. The company was barred by
regulation from meeting with S&P to provide them with privileged
information and S&P never approached Cheung Kong for such
information, Barnes said.  Bilateral Loans  “Cheung Kong’s financing is predominately done through
bilateral loans,” said  Andrew Lawrence , Hong Kong-based head of
property research at Barclays Capital Asia Ltd. “There’s less
need for Standard & Poor’s ratings because they’re done directly
between the developer and the banks.”  S&P also withdrew the cnAA Greater China credit scale
rating on Cheung Kong. It maintained the A- rating and stable
outlook on  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , which is 49.9 percent owned
by Cheung Kong, according to the statement. A- at S&P is the
seventh-highest investment-grade rating, or four levels above
junk, or speculative, grade.  ‘Financial Flexibility’  The A- rating on Cheung Kong was supported by the company’s
“strong financial flexibility,” according to the statement.  “At the time of the withdrawal, the stable outlook
reflected our expectation that CKH will generate satisfactory
cash flows and maintain conservative financial management over
the next two years,” Lee and Fu wrote.  Cheung Kong has the equivalent of $1.78 billion in bonds
and $771.6 million in loans  outstanding (1) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Of that, $939 million matures before the
end of 2013, the data show. The company last sold bonds in
November when it issued HK$300 million of 3.35 percent notes due
2012. Its S$730 million of 5.125 perpetual notes, sold to
investors at par in September, have fallen to yield 5.098
percent and reached 5.021 percent on Sept. 23, Nomura prices
show.  Shares Decline  The developer’s  shares (1)  have declined 23 percent this year,
compared with the 24 percent drop in the  Hang Seng Property
Index (HSP) , which tracks the city’s seven biggest builders including
Cheung Kong. The stock fell 0.9 percent to HK$92.55 at the close
in Hong Kong today.  Home prices  in Hong Kong have fallen to a near six-month
low after climbing about 70 percent since the beginning of 2009,
according to an index compiled by Centaline Property Agency Ltd.
It’s more expensive to buy a home in the city than in  London ,
Moscow or  New York , Savills Plc said in a report in January that
compared London with the other cities.  Li, 83, nicknamed “Superman” by the local media for his
investing prowess, opened a plastic flower factory after World
War II and began investing in Hong Kong real estate in 1967
after riots from China’s Cultural Revolution depressed prices.  Hong Kong’s richest man also was ranked the world’s 11th
wealthiest by Forbes magazine in March after his net worth
increased $5 billion to $26 billion. He forecast in 2007 that
China’s stock-market bubble would burst and in 2009 predicted
the rally in Hong Kong home prices. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
lost 65 percent in 2008, the most among the world’s 10 biggest
stock markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  