-- Chilean Bond Yields Fall After Bank Minutes Point to Lower Rate
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2011-12-28T18:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/chilean-bond-yields-fall-after-bank-minutes-point-to-lower-rate.html
Chilean bond yields fell after the
central bank said policy makers discussed cutting rates at this
month’s meeting and expressed concern about turmoil in local
financial markets.  The yield on inflation-linked central bank bonds due in
five years fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
a one-month low of 2.38 percent at 2:00 p.m. in Santiago. The
yield on similar 10-year bonds fell three basis points to 2.54
percent. The peso slid 0.1 percent to 521.75 per  U.S. dollar .  Policy makers considered cutting rates by 25 basis points
on Dec. 13 before voting unanimously to keep them unchanged as
 Europe ’s debt crisis intensified, the meeting minutes showed.
Continued “frictions” in local financial markets in coming
weeks would justify the start of a rate-cutting process, one
policy maker said. In the days following the meeting, borrowing
costs for Chilean lenders soared amid a liquidity squeeze that
prompted intervention from the central bank and government.  “The minutes are now expressly talking about a reduction
in the rate in the short term,” said Nathan Pincheira, an
economist at Banchile Inversiones in Santiago. “At the next
meeting the discussion will be whether to cut by 25 or 50 basis
points. That may cause a movement in benchmark yields.”  Yields may rise should the central bank announce it will
sell more bonds next year than the market is expecting,
according to research from Banco de Credito & Inversiones. The
bank may sell $3 billion worth of bonds next year, as well as
$8.5 billion of government debt, which would exceed forecasts,
according to BCI.  Dollar Auction  Basis swap rates, a measure of the cost of borrowing
dollars in  Chile , fell after the  Finance Ministry  auctioned
deposits in dollars.  The interbank lending rate in dollars for 360 days fell to
2.89 percent from 2.96 percent, according to the banking
association. The cost of borrowing dollars for 30 days rose four
basis points to 1.46 percent, the highest since January.  Interest rates  on short-term deposits were little changed
from yesterday, according to data from the Santiago stock
exchange. The central bank yesterday said it hadn’t accepted any
assets in the second scheduled repurchase window.  A spike in term-deposit rates last week pushed Chilean
mutual fund managers into revaluing money-market funds using
mark-to-market values, and the decline in yields is now having
the same effect in reverse. The bank carried out a one-off repo
on Dec. 21 and announced a twice-weekly window on Dec. 22.  The average monthly rate on deposits due in less than 31
days was unchanged at 0.47 percent. The rate on deposits due
between 31 and 60 days rose to 0.52 percent from 0.51 percent
while the average rate on deposits due between 61 days and 90
days was unchanged at 0.52 percent, according to the Santiago
stock exchange.  Bank Borrowing Costs  Annualized bank borrowing costs for maturities of 30 to 89
days fell 24 basis points to a one-week low of 6.36 percent on
Dec. 26 from 6.6 percent on Dec. 23, according to the central
bank. The rate for maturities between 90 and 365 days fell to
6.24 percent from 6.36 percent.  Offshore investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
increased their short position in the currency to the highest
since Oct. 11 on Dec. 26, according to central bank data
published today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  