-- China Punishes 54 Officials Over Fatal High-Speed Rail Crash Near Wenzhou
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-29T05:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/china-punishes-54-officials-over-fatal-high-speed-rail-crash.html
China  pledged to fix design flaws
blamed for a high-speed rail crash last July and punish the
officials responsible, as the government released the results of
an investigation that sought to allay criticism of how the
accident was handled.  Mismanagement and design flaws were the main causes for the
crash that killed 40 people near the eastern Chinese city of
Wenzhou, according to the report issued yesterday by the State
Council, China’s cabinet. The government punished 54 officials
and ordered the railway ministry to improve management of the
high-speed rail network, the report said.  Suspicions of corruption sparked by the February removal of
Railway Minister  Liu Zhijun  and the discovery of a two-year-old
alive as crews cleared wreckage fueled public outrage over the
accident. The outcries prompted nationwide safety checks,
project delays and a call on the front page of the Communist
Party’s People’s Daily newspaper for economic development that
isn’t “stained with blood.”  “They realize that a breakneck pace of expansion is not
sufficient to guarantee success and delivering service is higher
up their priority list,” said Patrick Chovanec, an associate
professor at Tsinghua University’s School of Economics and
Management in Beijing. “Has that changed the dynamic of
officials being rewarded for generating growth while other
things are secondary? I doubt it.”  Shares Fall  China Railway Group Ltd. (601390) , China Railway Construction Corp.
and CSR Corp. have  all fallen (390)  more than 26 percent in Hong Kong
trading since the accident, compared with an 18 percent drop for
the city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)   The accident occurred on the evening of July 23 after a
lightning strike caused signaling equipment to malfunction. One
train rammed another that had stopped and sent four carriages
tumbling off a viaduct, according to yesterday’s statement.  The railway ministry and the Shanghai railway bureau also
released information in an untimely way and didn’t respond
properly to concerns about rescue operations, according to the
statement.  The report’s findings were similar to a preliminary
investigation by the Shanghai Railway Bureau released after the
crash that also blamed a signaling system design flaw. In the
crash’s aftermath, the government called for safety checks on
other sites, including coal mines, roads and bridges, and fired
removed officials.  Former Minister  In yesterday’s report, authorities also said former railway
minister Liu and Zhang Shuguang, former deputy chief engineer at
the ministry, are among those most responsible for the crash.  Liu was removed on accusations that he abused his position
and received “a large amount of money” in bribes, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported in February. Zhang was placed under
investigation in March for “severe violation of discipline,”
according to Xinhua.  Both men had championed the high-speed rail system that’s
set to reach 120,000 kilometers (74,500 miles) under a 2.8
trillion yuan, five-year investment plan running through 2015.
That includes boosting the high-speed network, which opened in
2007, to 16,000 kilometers.  The State Council also signaled in its report yesterday
that development of the network would continue. High-speed rail
has improved transportation, boosted economic development and
the direction of the development and construction of the network
“is correct,” the report said.  Rail Investment  The scale of investment may have been reduced. The  China
Daily  newspaper on Dec. 24 quoted Railway Minister Sheng Guangzu
as saying the ministry will reduce spending on railway
construction to 400 billion yuan ($63.2 billion) next year, a
cut of about 15 percent. Rail construction spending was
estimated at 469 billion yuan in 2011 and 709 billion yuan in
2010, the China Daily said.  “The red-hot boom days we saw before may be gone now,”
said Simon Zhang, a Beijing-based senior consultant with Lloyd’s
Register. The punishments are a deterrent that “will reduce the
possibility that future railway construction will be rushed to
meet deadlines at the expense of safety.”  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  