-- China Seeks ‘Independence’ From GPS With Own Satellite Navigation Service
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-28T01:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/china-seeks-independence-from-gps-with-own-satellite-navigation-service.html
A Chinese satellite navigation
system began providing services yesterday as the nation seeks to
end its “dependence” on the U.S.’s Global Positioning System,
or GPS, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.  China ’s Beidou Navigation Satellite System began providing
initial positioning, navigation and timing operational services
for the nation and surrounding areas, Xinhua reported yesterday,
citing Ran Chengqi, director of the management office of the
China Satellite Navigation System. Work began on the Beidou
system in 2000 with a goal of creating a global position service
by 2020, according to Xinhua.  The U.S.-owned  GPS system  is the world’s primary source of
satellite navigation data that provides directions for drivers,
tracking systems for emergency rescue teams and also positioning
services for U.S. military vehicles and munitions. The U.S. Air
Force operates the more than 30 satellites on which the system
is based.  China has already launched 10 satellites for the Beidou
system, the most recent of which entered orbit earlier this
month, Xinhua reported. Six more satellites will be launched in
2012 to further improve the system and expand its coverage to
most of the Asia-Pacific region, Xinhua quoted Ran as saying.
The system is compatible with the world’s other major global
navigation satellite systems, according to the report.  Civilian Service  Civilian service provided by the U.S.’s GPS system is
freely available to all users on a continuous, worldwide basis,
according to the service’s website. The service is made up of
space, control and user segments, of which the U.S.  Air Force 
develops, maintains, and operates the space and control
segments.  GPS is also “critical to U.S. national security,”
according to its website. Its applications are integrated into
almost every facet of U.S. military operations and almost all
new military equipment, it said.  The Air Force manages the constellation to ensure the
availability of at least 24 GPS satellites 95 percent of the
time, according to the website. The Air Force flies 31
operational GPS satellites, plus three or four decommissioned
satellites that can be reactivated if needed.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  