-- China Says Design Failure, Mismanagement Caused July High-Speed Rail Crash
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-28T14:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/china-says-design-failure-mismanagement-caused-july-high-speed-rail-crash.html
China  punished 54 officials and
ordered the railway ministry to improve management of its high-
speed rail system after a government investigation found a fatal
train crash was caused by mismanagement and design flaws.  Former railway minister  Liu Zhijun  and Zhang Shuguang,
former deputy chief engineer at the ministry, are among those
most responsible for the July 23 accident, according to the
report issued by the State Council today. Liu and Zhang were
removed before the crash earlier this year over “serious
violations of laws and discipline,” it said.  Those found responsible will either be disciplined by the
Communist Party or removed from their posts, according to the
report, which also criticized the government’s handling of the
rescue effort and cleanup. The accident raised concerns over the
showcase high-speed rail network’s safety amid its rapid
expansion and triggered public outrage.  “The red-hot boom days we saw before may be gone now,”
said Simon Zhang, a Beijing-based senior consultant with Lloyd’s
Register. The punishments are a deterrent that “will reduce the
possibility that future railway construction will be rushed to
meet deadlines at the expense of safety.”  Stocks Fall  China raliway stocks slumped today before the report came
out, after the China Daily newspaper on Dec. 24 quoted Railway
Minister Sheng Guangzu as saying the ministry will reduce
spending on railway construction to 400 billion yuan ($63.2
billion) next year, a cut of about 15 percent.  China Railway
Group (390)  fell 8.5 percent to HK$2.37, while  China Railway
Construction Corp. (1186)  fell 5.4 percent, the most since Nov. 25.  The accident happened near the city of Wenzhou when a train
rammed into a stopped locomotive, pushing four carriages off a
viaduct. A lightning strike had caused signaling equipment to
malfunction, according to today’s statement.  The report’s findings were similar to a preliminary
investigation by the Shanghai Railway Bureau released after the
crash that also blamed a signaling system design flaw.  The State Council also called for safety checks on other
sites, including coal mines, roads and bridges in the days after
the crash.  The railway ministry and the Shanghai railway bureau
released information in an untimely way and didn’t respond
properly to concerns about the rescue operation, according to
the statement.  Baby Found  Authorities were criticized on China’s microblog services
after a 2-year-old was discovered alive in the wreckage hours
after the accident and cleanup crews buried one of the trains.
Microbloggers asked whether the baby’s parents and others could
have been saved had the rescue effort reportedly not been called
off about six hours after the accident.  The government has already reduced the speed of bullet
trains, delayed new projects and fired three Shanghai rail
officials following the crash. The rail ministry also recalled
at least 54 high-speed trains.  China’s rail network is set to reach 120,000 kilometers
(74,500 miles) under a 2.8 trillion yuan ($443 billion), five-
year investment plan running through 2015. That includes
boosting the high-speed network, which opened in 2007, to 16,000
kilometers.  Rail construction spending was estimated at 469 billion
yuan in 2011 and 709 billion yuan in 2010, the Daily said.  The high-speed train system was pushed forward by former
minister Liu until he was removed during a bribery investigation
in February, according to state-run Xinhua News.  Even while it administered punishment, the State Council
affirmed that China was correct to push ahead with expanding
high-speed rail projects.  “The high-speed railways improved people’s transportation
and boosted economic development,” it said. “The direction of
development and construction of high-speed railway is correct.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  