-- China 2012 Rare-Earth Export Quota Unchanged as Sales Slump
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-28T05:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/china-2012-rare-earth-export-quota-almost-level-with-this-year.html
China , the biggest supplier of rare
earths, will keep 2012 overseas sales quotas virtually unchanged
after exporters used only half the amount allotted for this year
as buyers sought to cut usage and amid complaints over
restrictions from trading partners.  The full-year quota may be about 31,130 metric tons,
according to Bloomberg News calculations based on first-round
quota figures given by the ministry in a  statement  yesterday.
The quota was 30,184 tons in 2011 and 30,258 tons in 2010. China
supplies more than 90 percent of the global market.  Prices of rare earths, used in  Boeing Co. (BA)  helicopter blades
and Toyota Motor Corp. hybrid cars, have tumbled 46 percent from
the third quarter as makers of electric cars and wind turbines
sought to reduce use of the metals and slow global economic
growth sapped demand. China has curbed output and exports since
2009, when quotas were set at 50,145 tons, to conserve resources
and protect the environment.  “After slashing sharply in 2010, China may not be able to
cut further because of trade issues with other countries,” said
Kim Gyung Jung, an analyst at Eugene Investment & Securities Co.
in  Seoul . “The 2012 quota will lend support for the prices of
some rare earths which are heavily dependent on China’s
supplies.”  China has also set export limits on a range of mining
products including silver, minor metals and coke to conserve
resources and protect the environment.  ‘Under Pressure’  “China is under pressure from the international community
in controlling rare earth exports, and a further cut of quota
could fuel more complaints,” Peng Bo, an analyst at Guosen
Securities Co., said by phone from Shenzhen. Still, “the
government really doesn’t want to export the minerals too much
as Chinese development also needs it.”  Complaints against China by the U.S., the European Union
and  Mexico  were bolstered by a World Trade Organization ruling,
which found in July that quotas, export duties and license
requirements on industrial ingredients such as coke, zinc and
bauxite violate global rules.  China, the world’s fastest growing major economy, exported
only 14,750 tons of rare earths in the first 11 months of this
year, or 49 percent of the full-year limit, “leaving a huge
amount of export quota unutilized,” the ministry said.  “The quota has become pointless if export demand falls
short of the limits,” said Wei Chishan, a Shanghai-based
analyst at SMM Information & Technology Co., a data provider.
“Rare-earth users are under great pressure to pass on surging
costs, while the global slowdown has slashed demand.”  ‘Supply Sufficient’  “It shows supply is sufficient,” SMM’s Wei said.  Shares in  Lynas Corp. (LYC) , an Australian rare earths developer,
dropped 3.4 percent to A$1.125 at 12:54 p.m. Shanghai time. The
Bloomberg Rare Earth Mineral Resources Index dropped 54 percent
this year, led by a 90 percent decline in Perth-based Navigator
Resources Ltd.  The Chinese government allocated 10,546 tons of first-round
export quotas to nine companies, including  China Minmetals Corp. 
and Sinosteel Corp., that have met the government’s environment
protection standards, the ministry said. Another 14,358 tons may
be granted to 17 other companies, including Baotou Iron & Steel
Group, China’s biggest producer, if they meet the standards by
the end of July, the statement said.  The first-round quotas will account for about 80 percent of
the full-year volume for 2012, the ministry said.  Rare earths are 17 chemically similar elements including
neodymium, cerium and lanthanum. The export prices from China
for eight rare earths found at the Mount Weld project in  Western
Australia  surged to $193.21 a kilogram on average in the third
quarter, compared with $31.35 in 2010, according to figures on
 Lynas Corp.’s website . The price has since fallen to $103.76 a
kilogram today, the company said.  Prices should stabilize next year after soaring in the
first half of this year, and then collapsing, Guosen Securities’
Peng said. “As economic growth slows down, the market will
become more rational.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  