-- China’s EXIM Lend More to Sub-Sahara Africa Than World Bank, Fitch Says
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2011-12-28T15:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/china-exim-loans-to-sub-sahara-africa-exceed-world-bank-funds-fitch-says.html
Export-Import Bank of  China  extended
$12.5 billion more in loans to sub-Saharan Africa in the past
decade than the World Bank,  Fitch Ratings  said.  State-owned EXIM lent about $67.2 billion to the world’s
poorest region between 2001 and 2010 compared with the World
Bank’s $54.7 billion, the ratings company said in a report e-
mailed from  London  today.  “It is estimated that 20 percent of EXIM bank’s total
business volume is conducted with Africa,” Fitch said.
“Angola, Ethiopia, Nigeria and Sudan have been traditional
recipients of EXIM loans since the bank’s founding in 1994.
However, more recent projects suggest an even distribution
across the African continent.”  China has been boosting ties with Africa, as it seeks to
secure access to the continent’s raw materials and new markets
for its manufactured goods. In return it has provided African
governments with financing to help develop their economies,
attaching less stringent loan conditions than institutions such
as the  World Bank  and  International Monetary Fund .  “Absence of political strings, competitive  interest rates 
and flexible repayment schedules compared with Western
counterparts, makes China’s loans highly attractive,” Fitch
said. “For countries dependent on foreign aid, such as Ghana
and Mozambique, Chinese loans offer an alternative source of
capital against more traditional donor demands, particularly
given growing infrastructure needs.”  Foreign Direct Investment  Chinese loans to sub-Saharan Africa exceed the Asian
nation’s foreign direct investment in the region, with
cumulative investment reaching $11 billion as of 2010, according
to the ratings company. Most EXIM loans have been used for
infrastructure projects, Fitch said.  China Development Bank Corp. , the state-owned policy
lender, has its own special loan program with  Africa  to help
small- and medium-sized companies secure financing and build
local markets. Since the program’s inception last year, the bank
has helped fund more than 1,000 projects that created 50,000
jobs in more than 25 African countries, Fitch said, citing data
provided by the state lender.  “Long-term debt sustainability is a concern, given poor
transparency regarding loan terms and the weak debt management
capacity of borrowers,” Fitch said. By the end of 2009 “35
African countries had debts canceled by China, amounting to
approximately $30 billion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  