-- Threat to Close Strait of Hormuz Could Cause Self-Inflicted Wound For Iran
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2011-12-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/closing-strait-of-hormuz-might-be-self-inflicted-wound-for-iran.html
It would be relatively easy for  Iran 
to make good on its threat to close the strategic waterway that
carries  oil tankers  from the Persian Gulf -- and it would
probably hurt itself most by taking such action.  “Iran is as reliant, if not more reliant, on the Strait of
Hormuz than any other country,” said Ali Nader of the RAND
Corp. research institute in a telephone interview.  Iran has threatened to halt traffic through the strait if
the West moves to toughen sanctions including an oil embargo to
pressure Iran to abandon its nuclear program. The strait is the
passageway for about a third of the world’s seaborne-traded oil
last year, according to U.S. Energy Department data.  “Iran has total control over the strategic waterway,”
Iranian Naval Commander Admiral Habibollah Sayari told Iran’s
Press TV yesterday as the Iranian navy conducted a 10-day
exercise in international waters. “Closing the  Strait of Hormuz 
is very easy for Iranian naval forces.”  “The free flow of goods and services through the Strait of
Hormuz is vital to regional and global prosperity,” said
Lieutenant Rebecca Rebarich, a U.S. Navy spokeswoman in Bahrain,
site of the 5th Fleet headquarters, in an e-mail. “Any
disruption will not be tolerated.”  NYMEX crude oil prices fell back yesterday after rising by
about 1.5 percent to more than $101 a barrel the previous day,
when Iranian Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi threatened to
close the 21 mile-wide strait if the West imposed new sanctions.  NYMEX West Texas Intermediate crude fell some 1.7 percent
to $99.65 a barrel in New York, and ICE Brent Spot fell more
than 1.7 percent to almost $107.40 a barrel.  Impact on Iran  U.S. officials and outside experts concede that Iran could
block the strait, at least temporarily. Testifying to Congress
in March, Defense Intelligence Agency Director Army Lieutenant
General Ronald Burgess said that Iran is expanding its Persian
Gulf naval bases, allowing it to “attempt to block the Strait
of Hormuz temporarily” during a crisis.  Were Iran to make such a move, it might be hurt more than
its adversaries.  Iran’s economy is shaky, as is popular support for its
clerical rulers, Nader said. The country is facing new Western
efforts to halt its suspected nuclear weapons program, including
U.S. sanctions that are awaiting President  Barack Obama ’s
signature and a possible European Union ban on imports of
Iranian oil.  According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration,
Iran’s net oil export revenues were approximately $73 billion in
2010; crude oil and its derivatives account for nearly 80
percent of Iran’s total exports; and oil exports provide half of
the nation’s government revenue.  Iran’s Best Customer  Moreover, according to the EIA, Iran’s best customer is
 China , which took about 22 percent of Tehran’s oil exports
during the first half of this year and is a member of the  United
Nations Security Council  and one of the few nations on friendly
terms with the Islamic Republic.  China gets 11 percent of its crude oil imports from Iran,
according to the EIA, while  Turkey , a NATO member that shares
both a border and antipathy toward Kurdish separatist groups
with Iran, got 51 percent of its imported crude oil from the
Islamic Republic from January to June of this year.  In August, Iran’s Press TV reported that Iranian security
forces killed three Kurdish rebels suspected of blowing up a
major pipeline that carries Iranian natural gas to Turkey on
July 29.  Dire Strait  While closing the Strait of Hormuz, even briefly, would
hurt  Saudi Arabia ,  Iraq  and other Gulf oil exporters, the Saudis
also ship oil via the  Red Sea . All of Iran’s exports and many of
its imports of gasoline, food and consumer goods are shipped
through the strait.  Iran’s main oil terminal at Kharg Island, which has a
loading capacity of 5 million barrels a day and storage capacity
for more than 30 million barrels, is in the  Persian Gulf . So is
its second-largest export terminal, at Lavan Island, with
storage capacity of 5 million barrels and a loading capacity of
200,000 barrels per day.  Nevertheless, said  Anthony Cordesman , an analyst at the
Center for Strategic and International Studies in  Washington ,
Iran’s threats to close the strait are only the beginning of
what could be five to 10-years of feints, attacks and rising
tensions in the Gulf.  That, Cordesman said in a telephone interview, could
require the U.S. to change its military posture in the Persian
Gulf region at a time when the U.S. is facing intense budget
pressures and the Obama administration has signaled its
intention to focus more attention on the Pacific.  Rhetoric or Reality?  “Closing the Strait of Hormuz is really an exercise in
rhetoric,” Cordesman said. With shipping channels passing
Iranian or Iranian-held islands, floating mines, small craft and
missiles could halt tanker traffic or raise risk premiums so
high that insurance rates alone would drive up the cost of oil
or stop shipping, he said.  An all-out conflagration might be too high a cost for Iran,
at least until its nuclear weapons program produces enough
weapons to make a credible deterrent, Cordesman said.  “We have been through an awful lot in the Gulf, where
nothing has escalated or triggered a major conflict,” he said.  “When you are raising  oil prices  by having tankers pay
higher insurance premiums, it’s out of hand, but the question is
how much out of hand,” he said. “You have to be careful in
going from Iranian statements which are also aggressive to
assuming we are in middle of a crisis -- we aren’t yet.”  The potential worry now, however, said Nader, is that an
Iran that feels threatened by tougher Western sanctions, by the
uprising in neighboring ally  Syria  and by the broader rebellion
against autocrats elsewhere could miscalculate and trigger a
conflict that neither it nor anyone else wants.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  