-- Creativity Springs From Careful Copying (Part 2): William Patry
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P a t r y
-- 2011-12-28T00:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/creativity-springs-from-copy-making-part-2-commentary-by-william-patry.html
Record companies , book publishers,
movie studios and other media corporations are caught up in
efforts to equate all copying of their works with theft. In
fact, if we genuinely want to promote creativity, we must
encourage copying.  The idea that people copy because they lack creativity is
powerfully harmful, and it runs counter to the history of
copyright.  For the first 300 years that copyright laws existed, the
right to prevent unauthorized copying was determined not by
property rules, but by reference to whether the defendant’s work
added new insights -- whether the copier, too, was creating
something. Verbatim copying, mere paraphrasing or qualitative
copying of the heart of the work were all prohibited, because
such copying did not provide new insights or evidence any
creativity, but only acted as a substitute for the original. Yet
there was considerable leeway for other kinds of unauthorized
copying.  In the 1803 English case of Cary v. Kearsley, Lord
Ellenborough nicely summed up the policy: “That part of the
work of one author is found in another, is not of itself piracy,
or sufficient to support an action; a man may fairly adopt part
of the work of another: he may so make use of another’s labours
for the promotion of science, and the benefit of the public. ...
While I shall think myself bound to secure every man in the
enjoyment of his copyright, one must not put manacles on
science.” (Science here referred to the 18th-century conception
of knowledge.)  Art in Context  Literature, music and the arts flourished under this
policy, and for good reason: All works exist only in context
with past and present authors and culture. That’s what Hans-
Georg Gadamer meant when he wrote: “Understanding is to be
thought of less as a subjective act than as participating in an
event of tradition, a process of transmission in which past and
present are constantly mediated.”  It is equally true of authors, as T.S. Eliot wrote: “The
historical sense compels a man to write not merely with his own
generation in his bones, but with a feeling that the whole of
literature from Homer and within it the whole of the literature
of his own country has a simultaneous existence and composes a
simultaneous order.”  Even those who purport to rebel against tradition do so in
relation to that tradition. The late Canadian pianist Glenn Gould made this point in discussing the music of Arnold Schoenberg: “Whenever one honestly defies a tradition, one
becomes, in reality, the more responsible to it.” Creativity
requires the breathing space necessary to permit all authors to
draw on the whole of culture.  Regrettably, we have undergone a change in policy that
works against the creative process. The current trend is toward
finding that even minimal uses infringe copyright law. Instead
of encouraging new works, we are fast adopting a property-based
theory of absolute ownership.  Consider how hip-hop music has been changed by a series of
court opinions in the past 20 years finding infringement for the
creative copying and alteration of tiny amounts from recorded
performances. The most important of these opinions came from the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the 6th Circuit.  The case arose from the unauthorized use of a very short
sample from a sound recording by the immortal George Clinton and
Funkadelic. The use first occurred in the rap song “100 Miles
and Runnin’,” the second in the soundtrack of the movie “I Got
the Hook Up.” The second use consisted of a two-second sample
of a guitar chord. In this case, the defendant lowered the pitch
and then looped the sample to last 16 beats. The sample was used
in five places in the movie, with each looped segment lasting
approximately seven seconds.  Absolute Ownership  Because of the transformative way in which the samples were
copied, a lower court had found no infringement. “Even one
familiar with the works of George Clinton would [not] recognize
the source of the sample without having been told of its
source,” that court observed.  But the federal appeals court reversed that verdict in an
opinion that contains almost every error that can be made in
construing the U.S. Copyright Act. To begin with, the court
adopted a different approach to infringement of a musical
composition than for infringement of the recorded performance of
it. For compositions, the court acknowledged there is no
infringement from transformative copying. For sound recordings,
however, the court held there is no such threshold; copying of
any amount infringes copyright.  Since that decision, record companies have been unwilling
to release albums unless each and every sample is cleared.
Previous hip-hop albums used hundreds, sometimes thousands, of
samples, but licensing that number is prohibitively difficult
and expensive. Instead, hip-hop changed its creative process.  The sampling issue illustrates a fundamental transformation
in copyright law. Once a tool for creativity, it has become
focused on permission. All uses, no matter how trivial or
irrelevant to artists’ incomes, are declared licensable. Yet
culture can be built only from shared knowledge, and generous
use of one another’s creations.  A 1971 note from  John Lennon  to New York Times reporter
Craig McGregor addresses this point. McGregor had written a
piece called “The Beatles Betrayal,” accusing the group of
“ripping off” black artists. Lennon responded:  “‘Money,’ ‘Twist ‘n’ Shout,’ ‘You Really Got a Hold on
Me,’ were all numbers we used to sing in the dance halls around
Britain, mainly Liverpool. It was only natural that we tried to
do it as near to the record as we could -- I always wished we
could have done them even closer to the original. We didn’t sing
our own songs in the early days -- they weren’t good enough.”  Tradition of Copying  It has been a tradition for hundreds of years for aspiring
painters to go to museums and faithfully copy works hanging
there. Poets, choreographers and novelists also find their
voices only after long periods of imitation. As the literary
critic Northrop Frey wrote: “Poetry can only be made out of
other poems; novels out of other novels.”  James Joyce ’s
“Ulysses” is closely patterned after Homer’s “The Odyssey,”
yet at the same time it is very much a part of its own 20th
century.  To deny people the right to copy, intimately, from others,
is to deny the essence of what it is to be a creative person.  The most damaging consequence of the movement to turn
culture into private property is the largely successful change
in attitude toward creativity and copying. Creative people are
supposedly those who do not copy or imitate others; copying is
supposedly theft.  In truth, creative people must copy and must imitate
others. Our copyright laws should be changed to reflect this
reality.  (William Patry, senior copyright counsel at Google Inc., is
the author of “Moral Panics and the Copyright Wars” “Patry on
Copyright” and “Patry on Fair Use.” This is the second in a
three-part series of excerpts from his new book, “How to Fix
Copyright,” to be published Jan. 5 by  Oxford University Press .
The opinions expressed are his own. Read  Part 1 .)  To contact the writer on this article:
William Patry at  williampatry@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 