-- Oil Declines for First Time in Seven Days Amid Concern Over European Debt
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2011-12-28T21:38:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/crude-oil-falls-for-first-time-in-seven-days-on-reduced-iran-concern.html
Oil declined for the first time in
seven days as a surge in the  European Central Bank ’s balance
sheet to a record highlighted the growing risks of the region’s
debt crisis and threatening fuel demand.  Futures dropped 2 percent after the ECB lent financial
institutions more money last week in an attempt to keep credit
flowing. The euro tumbled to the lowest level since January
against the dollar, curbing investor demand for commodities. Oil
also decreased on reduced concern that Iran will block the
Strait of Hormuz.  “The biggest news right now is that the euro is coming in
pretty strongly,” said  Tom Bentz , a director with BNP Paribas
Prime Brokerage Inc. in New York. “It was time for a correction
after rising for six days.”  Crude oil for February delivery fell $1.98 to $99.36 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Dec. 21. It was the biggest decline since Dec.
14. Futures have climbed 8.7 percent this year, extending last
year’s advance of 15 percent.  Futures were little changed from the settlement after the
 American Petroleum Institute  reported that  oil inventories  rose
9.57 million barrels to 339.6 million last week. February crude
decreased $1.93, or 1.9 percent, to $99.41 a barrel in
electronic trading at 4:32 p.m.  Brent oil for February settlement fell $1.71, or 1.6
percent, to end the session at $107.56 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European contract’s
premium to New York crude was $8.20 a barrel at today’s close,
up from $7.93 yesterday, the smallest spread since Jan. 20.  Low Volume  New York oil prices surged 1.7 percent to $101.34
yesterday, the highest settlement since Nov. 16, during a period
of slow trading. Volume on the Nymex totaled 269,086 contracts
as of 4:29 p.m. Volume was 216,467 yesterday, down 65 percent
from the average of the past three months. Open interest was
1.33 million contracts.  “The significant rally yesterday was probably exaggerated
because of low volume,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Lending to euro-area banks jumped 214 billion euros ($280
billion) to 879 billion euros in the week ended Dec. 23, the
Frankfurt-based ECB said in a statement today. The balance sheet
increased 239 billion euros to 2.73 trillion euros.  The 17-nation currency fell against the dollar as concern
increased that the region’s sovereign-debt crisis will reduce
economic growth in the region. The euro decreased as much as 1.2
percent to $1.2912. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 1.2
percent to 1,249.64, erasing the year’s gains.  Market Influences  “We’re trying to balance the bullish and bearish
influences in the market,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at
Citi Futures Perspective in New York. “All of the commentary
about  Iran  has been supportive while the macroeconomic picture,
as expressed by the  S&P 500 , is negative.”  Iran’s official Islamic Republic News Agency yesterday
cited Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi as saying the country
would bar shipments through the strait if sanctions are imposed
on its oil exports, while the country’s Press TV today cited
Navy Commander Habibollah Sayari as saying that the blockage
would be “easy.”  About 15.5 million barrels of oil a day, or a sixth of
global consumption, pass through the Strait of Hormuz between
Iran and Oman at the mouth of the  Persian Gulf , according to the
U.S. Energy Department. Iran’s navy started a 10-day exercise
east of the passage that involved the use of submarines, ground-
to-sea missile systems and torpedoes, Press TV said Dec. 24.  U.S. Navy  The U.S. won’t tolerate a disruption to shipping in the
 Strait of Hormuz , Rebecca Rebarich, a Navy spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail.  “It’s important to remember that there’s a very low
probability that Iran would attempt to block the Strait of
Hormuz,” Evans said. “The likelihood of something occurring is
much lower than 50-50.”  U.S. oil inventories probably for fell a third week,
according to a Bloomberg News survey before tomorrow’s Energy
Department report. Stockpiles declined 2.5 million barrels,
according to the  median estimate  of 10 analyst estimates.  Oil inventories have declined in December for the past five
years as refiners reduced stockpiles at the year end to minimize
their taxes. Texas and  Louisiana  assess taxes based on the fair-
market value of inventories on Jan. 1.  The department is scheduled to release its weekly report at
11 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington , a day later than usual because
of the Christmas holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  