-- Democrats Kucinich, Kaptur Face Off in Ohio House Primary
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2011-12-28T22:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/democrats-kucinich-kaptur-face-off-in-ohio-house-primary.html
U.S. Representatives Dennis Kucinich
and Marcy Kaptur, both Democrats, will run against each other
for their party’s nomination next year to represent a
reconfigured Ohio congressional district.  Kaptur’s current district includes Toledo and extends east
toward  Cleveland . Kucinich represents parts of Cleveland and its
suburbs. Both filed papers today with the Cuyahoga County Board
of Elections in Cleveland to run in the March 6 primary to be
the Democratic nominee in the redrawn district, the election
board said.  Ohio’s number of House seats was reduced to 16 from 18
following the 2010  U.S. Census .  Kucinich, 65, said he would try to avoid attacks on his
fellow Democrat.  “I am running on my merits, on what I’ve done, my stands
for peace and social and economic justice,” he said in a
telephone interview. “I am not proceeding from the standpoint
of running against anyone.”  Kucinich, a vocal critic of U.S. and allied intervention in
the Libyan civil war that toppled the late dictator  Muammar
Qaddafi , said he would stress his opposition to the  Iraq war 
“long before others were willing to even talk about it.”  “Everything I said turned out to be right,” he said.
“That has been my calling card in Congress.”  Former Mayor  First elected to the Cleveland City Council at age 23,
Kucinich became the youngest elected mayor, at 31, of a major
U.S. city in 1977.  Cleveland went into financial default when Kucinich refused
bankers’ demands that he sell the city-owned power company and
he was defeated for re-election.  He first won his House seat in 1996. In 2004 and 2008 he
unsuccessfully sought the Democratic presidential nomination,
promising to return the party to its pro-union roots.  Kaptur, 65, was first elected to the House in 1982. In a
telephone interview today, she said she would stress her status
as the second-most senior member of the House Appropriations
Committee.  “That seniority is very precious to  Ohio ” because it
gives her the ability to help Ohio “modernize our ports, our
railways, our airports,” she said.  As a member of the defense appropriations subcommittee,
Kaptur said she has been a “voice” for “strong security.”  “I don’t think he has ever voted for a defense bill in his
career,” Kaptur said of Kucinich.  New Boundaries  The redrawn 9th district stretches from the west side of
Cleveland along Lake Erie to Toledo. Much of it is now part of
Kaptur’s district.  She said she has represented four of the five counties in
the new district, so “the people know me well” and “they know
my record of service well.”  Kucinich said he likes his chances because the district
includes “the heart of my political base.”  Another high-profile primary clash between two veteran
Democratic House members is brewing in  California  as a result of
redistricting. In an area that includes parts of  Los Angeles  and
its suburbs, Representatives Howard Berman, a former chairman of
the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and Brad Sherman are headed
toward a political collision course.  Sherman, 57, plans to run in the new 30th congressional
district, where Berman has expressed his intent to run, said
Scott Abrams, political director for Sherman’s campaign.  “Congressional districts have been redrawn and I’m
preparing for a challenging race,” Berman, 70, says on his
campaign website.  Gene Smith , Berman’s campaign spokeswoman, said the
lawmaker is “definitely running” in the 30th district.  Berman was first elected in 1982, Sherman in 1996.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  