-- U.K. Store Traffic Declines on Second Shopping Day After Christmas Holiday
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2011-12-28T12:42:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/discounting-fails-to-entice-u-k-shoppers-as-mall-visitors-drop-from-2010.html
U.K. shopper numbers fell yesterday
as discounting and mild weather failed to entice cost-conscious
Britons to spend, according to market researcher Experian
Footfall.  Visits to shops and malls fell 0.7 percent on Dec. 27,
compared to the Tuesday after Christmas last year, Experian
Footfall said by e-mail. Shopper numbers surged 21.5 percent on
Boxing Day, Dec. 26, with extended hours helping boost business
limited last year by Sunday trading restrictions. The four-day
U.K. holiday weekend ended on a Tuesday in both 2010 and 2011.  Stores including  Debenhams Plc (DEB) , the U.K.’s second-largest
department store chain, had price cuts of as much as 70 percent
on items such as a 50-piece Christmas tree ornament set reduced
to 4.50 pounds ($7).  Gap Inc. (GPS) , the clothing chain, had discounts
of up to 60 percent in the U.K., alongside  Comet , the
electronics chain owned by  Kesa Electricals Plc (KESA)  offering a
Prestige microwave cut to 87.99 pounds from 219.99 pounds.  “Although minus 0.7 percent looks like we’re struggling,
it’s pretty much level and that’s a better performance than this
year so far,” Neil Bennett, product manager at Experian
Footfall, said by phone. Declines in customer numbers of about
1.6 percent have been typical this year through the middle of
December.  Deep Discounts  The depth of discounting will put pressure on retailers’
margins, already hit by above-average temperatures, said Maureen Hinton, a retail analyst at  Verdict Research . The U.K. has had
“fairly widespread mild temperatures,” in contrast to the
coldest December in more than a century in 2010, according to
the  Met Office .  “Shoppers did leave it to the last minute and it was worse
because there was a lot more stock to begin with,” after mild
weather held back pre-Christmas spending on winter clothing, she
said. “Most people have just held off spending until after
Christmas because they do know January sales will be good.”  Parts of  London ’s busy West End shopping district remain
cordoned off today after an 18-year-old man was stabbed to death
Dec. 26 outside a Foot Locker store on Oxford Street. The
Metropolitan Police said 11 people have been arrested.  “It’s a very rare occurrence,” said Jace Tyrrell, a
spokesman for the New West End Co. “Shoppers were stunned but
we’re pleased with the way it was handled.”  Business has been slowing since Boxing Day, traditionally
the busiest shopping day. The area, which includes Oxford
Street,  Bond Street  and Regent Street will take in about 100
million pounds this week, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  