-- Miami Dolphins’ Jason Taylor to Retire After Jets Game and 15 NFL Seasons
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2011-12-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/dolphins-jason-taylor-to-retire-after-game-against-jets-herald-reports.html
Jason Taylor , the  National Football
League ’s active sacks leader, said he plans to retire following
the Miami Dolphins’ Jan. 1 season-ending game against the  New
York Jets .  Taylor, a six-time Pro Bowl selection, leaves after 15
seasons -- 13 with the Dolphins. The 37-year-old linebacker’s
139 1/2 sacks rank first among active players and sixth in NFL
history, 60 1/2 behind career leader Bruce Smith.  “This organization here in the near future is going to
make some changes and I think part of those changes is needing
to address some personnel positions,” Taylor told reporters
after practice yesterday. “This is the right time for me to go
ahead and go and allow this organization to grow and improve.”  Taylor was selected by the Dolphins in the third round of
the 1997  NFL Draft . He had three stints in Miami, with stops at
the  Washington Redskins  in 2008 and Jets in 2010.  “While he may be retiring as a player, he will always
remain an integral part of the Dolphin family, contributing to
the team and the community he has grown to love,” Dolphins
Managing General Partner Stephen M. Ross said in a statement
released by the team.  Taylor has seven sacks and a forced fumble in 15 games this
season. The Associated Press Defensive Player of the Year in
2006, Taylor has returned six fumbles and three interceptions
for touchdowns in his career.  “I am going to go ahead and walk away hopefully healthy,
get through this next one, this last one, preferably win the
game and sail off in the sunset for a while,” Taylor said.  The Dolphins are 5-10, in last place in the American
Football Conference East division.  “If there is one regret I have as an athlete for the last
15 years it’s that I didn’t get a chance to bring a championship
to Miami,” Taylor said. “As a team game we all try to do our
part and unfortunately it hasn’t worked out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  