-- Don’t Give Up on the Sensible Ideas of the Dodd-Frank Act: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2011-12-28T00:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/don-t-give-up-on-the-sensible-ideas-the-dodd-frank-act-offers-banks-view.html
More than three years after the U.S.
financial system went into free fall, the  Dodd-Frank Act ,
Congress’s primary effort to prevent a repeat episode, has
become something of a bete noire.  Executives at big banks say the law will bog them down in
costly regulations. Republicans want to repeal it. Presidential
hopeful  Newt Gingrich  even suggests jailing its authors,
Representative  Barney Frank  and former Senator  Chris Dodd .  The vilification of Dodd-Frank is odd, given that most of
the law has yet to take effect. The law firm Davis Polk &
Wardwell LLP  estimates  that as of Dec. 1, only 74 of the 400
required rules had been finalized, and 154 had missed the law’s
deadlines.  Most people, quite understandably, haven’t had the time or
patience to wade through the law’s 848 pages. As a service to
them, we did so. What we found, admittedly cloaked in eye-
glazing language, was an elegant core of sensible ideas.
Consider it a fail-safe system with three levels of containment.  Level 1 is designed to make disastrous mistakes at
financial institutions less likely. One central element is
transparency: Bank stress tests, centralized reporting of
derivatives trades and a data-analysis arm called the Office of
Financial Research will give regulators, investors and
journalists more information. They can use it to identify
dangerous concentrations of risk in banks, investment firms,
insurers and other financial entities.  The law also rearranges some incentives. By stipulating
that lenders must hold a portion of the mortgages they
originate, Dodd-Frank reduces the temptation to make bad loans
and sell them off to greater fools. By forbidding federally
insured banks from engaging in speculative trading for their own
accounts, the so-called Volcker rule limits a taxpayer subsidy
that has encouraged traders at such banks to take outsized
risks. By requiring executives to write credible living wills
describing how their institutions can be dismantled in
bankruptcy, the law leans against banks getting too large or too
complex to manage.  Level 2 aims to make financial institutions better able to
survive when mistakes do happen. The crucial piece here is
higher  capital requirements . Like equity for a homeowner,
 capital  allows a bank to stay solvent if the value of its
investments falls.  Stress tests conducted by the  Federal Reserve  play a role,
too. By simulating how a bank would fare in worst-case
scenarios, they help ensure that banks don’t report fictitious
capital. The Volcker rule, for its part, helps limit trading
losses, which tend to eat into capital precisely when banks need
it most.  Level 3 seeks to make sure that if a financial institution
does fail, it won’t bring down the whole system. The law gives
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. the power to take over a
troubled institution and wind it down in a way that limits
contagion -- a task made easier by living wills and better
information on how financial institutions are linked.  In derivatives markets, banks,  hedge funds  and other
players must put up enough collateral to pay off their immediate
obligations if they run into distress. That reduces the chances
that a large, complex institution can wreak the kind of havoc
that Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and American International
Group Inc. did in 2008.  Dodd-Frank contains many more rules, some unnecessarily
burdensome. But bank executives such as JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  have aimed their criticism
largely at the new capital requirements and the Volcker rule.
Although potentially bad for bonuses, those are among the
provisions that promise the greatest net gain for the broader
economy.  Researchers at the Bank of England, for example, have  found 
that even if capital levels were more than doubled, the economic
benefit of averting financial crises would outweigh any costs
that might arise. The U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency concluded that the incremental cost of the Volcker
rule’s requirements to track and report proprietary trading
would be only $50 million a year, because banks already do most
of it (or should). Compared with the  estimated  $15.8 billion the
top six U.S. banks lost on proprietary trading during the last
crisis, that seems like a good deal.  The OCC also estimates that the Volcker rule’s hedge-fund
investment provisions would require some banks to raise extra
capital at a total cost of $917 million a year -- an added
buffer that, according to the  Bank of England  research, would
more than pay for itself.  The law leaves some important business unfinished. It
doesn’t address money-market mutual funds, whose advertising and
promotions suggest that investors will get back at least a
dollar for every dollar put in, even as the funds are heavily
invested in  Europe  and hence vulnerable to the region’s debt
crisis.  Nor does Dodd-Frank deal with the high-frequency trading
that contributed to last year’s flash crash. And it does nothing
about  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the mortgage financiers that
have so far cost taxpayers more than $150 billion.  Dodd-Frank deliberately lacks a Level 4: It forbids the use
of taxpayer money to bail out institutions whose failure could
bring down the system. This makes sense given the dire state of
the government’s finances, but it’s also dangerously wishful
thinking now that the largest U.S. banks are even bigger than
they were in 2006. Until the curbs in Dodd-Frank have had time
to reverse that trend, and unless international regulators reach
agreement on how to wind down multinational institutions, it’s
hard to imagine how the FDIC could safely liquidate a Bank of
America or a Citigroup.  The solution is not to repeal Dodd-Frank. It is to
construct its containment system as quickly as possible. The
uncertainty over how the law should be implemented is probably
its greatest flaw. The sooner rules are written and enforced,
the sooner banks can learn to live with them and get on with the
business of helping the economy grow.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 