-- Mead Johnson Says FDA Inspects Formula Factory in Probe of Infant Death
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2011-12-28T21:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/mead-johnson-says-fda-inspects-formula-factory-in-probe-of-infant-s-death.html
U.S. regulators have spent today and
yesterday inspecting a  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN)  factory as
part of an investigation into whether a  Missouri  child’s death
this month was due to tainted infant formula.  Food and Drug Administration inspectors remain at the plant
in Zeeland,  Michigan , Susan Ricker, Mead Johnson’s global
quality-services director, said today in a telephone interview.
The Glenview, Illinois-based company said Dec. 25 that its tests
had shown the batch of formula used by the infant was not
contaminated with the  Cronobacter  bacteria blamed for the death.  “They have come in and we’ve been cooperating with them
and providing information as they request it,” Ricker said.  U.S. regulators last week identified two other children
infected by Cronobacter, a microbe that can lead to permanent
neurological damage. Retailers led by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
pulled a batch of Mead Johnson’s Enfamil Newborn formula after
authorities said the Missouri child had used it. The formula
used by the other children hasn’t been identified.  The FDA doesn’t discuss specifics of open investigations,
Stephanie Yao, an agency spokeswoman, said today in an e-mail.
Testing in the Cronobacter investigation is ongoing and the FDA
doesn’t have a timetable for the results, she said.  Mead Johnson fell 1.6 percent to $67.98 at 4 p.m. New York
time. The company, the world’s leading seller of child formula,
had its biggest one-day gain in five months yesterday,
increasing 5.8 percent, after announcing its test results. That
followed a fall of 15 percent on Dec. 22 and 23, after retailers
pulled the formula.  Three Infections  The first two infections were revealed last week. The U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said yesterday that a
third case had been identified in  Oklahoma . That newborn had
been hospitalized and was given a different brand of formula
than used in the two previously reported cases of the infection,
said the CDC’s Chris Braden.  There’s too little evidence yet to say whether the Oklahoma
illness is linked to baby formula, Braden said yesterday in a
telephone interview. Regulators are testing powdered products in
each of the cases, and have said they may have results this
week. Wal-Mart said yesterday it will wait for the government
results before deciding whether to return Mead Johnson’s formula
to its shelves.  The Cronobacter bacteria “can be found in a lot of
different places,” said Braden, who heads the Division of
Foodborne, Waterborne and Environmental Diseases. “Even if
these infants were on powdered  infant formula , and even the same
powdered infant formula, we still don’t know yet if that’s the
source of their infections.”  Oklahoma Case  Braden declined to identify the product being tested in the
Oklahoma case. The Atlanta-based CDC is working with state
health departments and the FDA to study the infections and
doesn’t want to mislead the public, he said.  The CDC is testing for “numerous types of exposures,”
Kate Levinson, an agency spokeswoman, wrote in an e-mail.  Mead Johnson said in a Dec. 25 statement that it used
formula samples matching those screened by U.S. regulators in
the case involving the dead baby, and employed the same methods.  Wal-Mart,  Kroger Co. (KR)  and  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  last week pulled a
batch of Mead Johnson’s formula after the Missouri baby’s death
was disclosed. Chris Perille, a Mead Johnson spokesman, said his
company has received no contact from regulators or requests for
samples to test in connection with the other two cases.  “There’s no indication of any connection whatsoever to any
of our products,” he said.  Wal-Mart Waits  Wal-Mart will await FDA results before deciding whether to
return the product to its shelves, Dianna Gee, a spokeswoman for
the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. Jim Cohn, a spokesman for Walgreen, in
Deerfield, Illinois, said he was gathering information and
couldn’t yet comment. Messages weren’t returned by Keith Daley,
a spokesman for Cincinnati-based Kroger.  The Enfa brands, which include Enfamil, accounted for 79
percent of Mead Johnson’s $3.14 billion in 2010 revenue and were
the world’s lead brand franchise in pediatric nutrition based on
retail sales, the company said in a February filing.  The CDC is working with state regulators and the FDA in
testing samples in the case of the Missouri baby who died, said
Robert Tauxe, deputy director of the foodborne infection
division.  The second case involved an  Illinois  baby who fell sick in
Missouri during a trip, officials have said. Public health
officials are checking to see if the bacteria in the infections
have the same genetic fingerprint, Tauxe said in a Dec. 23
telephone interview. If they do, that may suggest they came from
the same source.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  