-- ECB Balance Sheet Increases to Record $3.55 Trillion After Loans to Banks
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2011-12-28T16:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/ecb-balance-sheet-increases-to-a-record-3-55-trillion-on-loans-to-banks.html
The  European Central Bank ’s balance
sheet soared to a record 2.73 trillion euros ($3.55 trillion)
after it lent financial institutions more money last week to
keep credit flowing to the economy during the debt crisis.  Lending to euro-area banks jumped 214 billion euros to 879
billion euros in the week ended Dec. 23, the Frankfurt-based
ECB said in a statement today. The balance sheet increased by
239 billion euros in the week and was 553 billion euros higher
than three months ago.  The euro weakened and stocks fell, halting a five-day
advance in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as the announcement
highlighted risks from Europe’s debt crisis.  “The market reaction is slightly incomprehensible,” said
Jens Kramer, an economist NordLB in Hanover. “After that record
liquidity injection it would follow that the balance sheet would
swell. Seeing the figure in black and white, and the fear of
what would happen to the ECB if a country defaulted, may have
spooked the market.”  The ECB last week awarded 523 banks three-year loans
totaling a record 489 billion euros to encourage lending to
companies and households and prevent a credit shortage.  Barclays
Capital  estimates the loans injected 193 billion euros of new
money into the system, with 296 billion euros accounted for by
maturing loans. So far, banks are parking the money back at the
ECB. Overnight deposits at the central bank increased to an all-
time high of 452 billion euros yesterday.  Stocks Decline  The  S&P 500  declined 0.8 percent to 1,255.01 at 10:30 a.m.
in  New York  and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.5 percent,
reversing a 0.6 percent advance. The euro slid more than a cent
$1.2952 at 3:41 p.m. in London and reached an almost 10-year low
versus the yen.  If the balance sheet release was the reason for the euro’s
decline, “it shows you how thin the market is at the moment,”
said Eric Wand, a fixed-income strategist at Lloyds Bank
Corporate Markets in  London . “Nobody who’s following the ECB
should be surprised that the balance sheet is at that level as
it has been continuously adding liquidity. Almost three trillion
is a relatively elevated level, but it is collateralized
lending, so it’s not a huge concern at the moment.”  Policy Response  The ECB this month cut its  benchmark interest rate  to 1
percent, matching a record low, as the debt crisis threatened to
engulf Italy and  Spain , the euro area’s third- and fourth-
largest economies. Growth in the 17-nation euro region will slow
to just 0.3 percent next year from about 1.6 percent this year,
the ECB forecast this month.  ECB policy makers have resisted calls to step up their
government  bond purchases  to cap borrowing costs in  Europe ’s
peripheral nations, choosing instead to grease the region’s
financial system with unlimited cheap loans.  In addition to offering longer-term funds, the ECB has also
widened the pool of collateral banks can use to obtain the cash.
The central bank will offer a second three-year loan on Feb. 28.  Italy today sold 9 billion euros of six-month Treasury
bills, meeting its target, and its borrowing costs plunged in a
sign that banks may channel some of the ECB’s money into debt
markets.  The Rome-based Treasury sold the 179-day bills at a rate of
3.251 percent, down from a 14-year-high of 6.504 percent at the
last auction of similar-maturity securities on Nov. 25.
Investors bid for 1.7 times the amount offered, up from 1.5
times last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  