-- ECB Says Banks’ Overnight Deposits Climbed to Record High of $591 Billion
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2011-12-28T10:40:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/ecb-says-banks-overnight-deposits-climbed-to-record-high-of-591-billion.html
The  European Central Bank  said
overnight deposits from the region’s financial institutions
increased to an all-time high.  Euro-area banks parked 452 billion euros ($591 billion)
with the Frankfurt-based ECB yesterday, the most since the
euro’s introduction in 1999 and up from the previous record of
412 billion euros a day earlier.  The ECB last week lent 523 banks a record 489 billion euros
for three years to keep credit flowing to the 17-nation euro
economy during the sovereign debt crisis. It lent the money at
its  benchmark rate  of 1 percent. Banks are depositing excess
cash back with the ECB at the overnight rate of 0.25 percent,
incurring a loss rather than lending it for more elsewhere.  “This is entirely as expected,” said  Jacques Cailloux ,
chief European economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
London. “The ECB has taken over the intermediary role because
the  interbank market  has seized up, and the size of the deposits
mirrors the refinancing operations. While there may be a
seasonal element now as well, it’s going to stay very high as
there is simply more cash in the system.”  Barclays Capital  estimates the three-year loans injected
193 billion euros of new money into the system, with 296 billion
euros accounted for by maturing loans. Since the three-year
loans started on Dec. 22, overnight deposits have jumped by 187
billion euros, suggesting banks are parking almost all the
additional liquidity back with the ECB.  Aline Schuiling, a senior economist at ABN Amro NV in
Amsterdam, warned yesterday about reading too much into the rush
of deposits as some financial institutions are closed in the
final week of the year and market activity is muted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  