-- Hedge-Fund Millionaire Diggle Bets on Farms, Life Sciences
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2011-12-28T09:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/hedge-fund-millionaire-diggle-to-offer-farms-introduce-life-sciences-fund.html
Stephen Diggle, who co-founded a
hedge fund that made $2.7 billion in 2007 and 2008, plans to
open his personal farmland portfolio to investors and start a
fund that will trade life-sciences companies.  Diggle will transfer the farm assets from his family office
to Singapore-based Vulpes Investment Management, which he set up
in April after liquidating his previous firm’s  volatility (VIX)  funds.
Diggle’s family also holds “significant stakes” in life
sciences, including biotechnology companies, which will be moved
to a fund he plans to set up next year, the 47-year-old said.  “Everything that we are investing in personally is
available to investors,” Diggle said in an interview. “We have
got capital committed, we are focused on a number of things
where we think there’s a compelling opportunity to make money.”  Diggle is widening his new firm’s investments after
starting a volatility fund in May and taking over the Russian
Opportunities Fund and Testudo Fund from Artradis Fund
Management Pte, which he and co-founder Richard Magides closed
in March. Once Singapore’s biggest hedge-fund manager,
Artradis’s funds, which sought to profit from price swings, lost
$700 million as volatility declined in 2009 and 2010.  “The one thing I didn’t want to do was to spend the rest
of my life talking about how great 2008 was,” Diggle said.
“You have to move on and find new challenges. That’s what gets
you up in the morning.”  Volatility Cost  Vulpes, which focuses on alternative investments, started
its long Asian volatility and arbitrage fund,  LAVA , on May 1
with $30.5 million, of which $30 million was the founding
partners’ money. The fund size has increased to about $50
million after some of Artradis’s former clients returned to
invest Diggle. The fund has gained 6 percent since May, he said.  LAVA seeks to produce returns that aren’t correlated with
the market by trading instruments that thrive on volatility,
such as options, warrants, and convertible bonds. The fund uses
strategies such as arbitraging or profiting from disparities in
the price of similar securities simultaneously traded on more
than one market, and tends to work well when markets go down.  “The cost of being long volatility on a daily basis as a
buy and hold strategy is not going to make money in the next few
years,” Diggle said. “You have to be more deft in your timing
and more selective in what you own.”  Farmland Transfer  Diggle plans to transfer ownership of his farmland into a
holding company, in which outside investors can hold shares, he
said. Vulpes, which currently manages about $200 million, will
own and operate the company. After buying farms in Uruguay and
 Illinois , as well as a kiwi-and-avocado orchard in  New Zealand ,
he plans to pour money into  Africa  and eastern  Europe  as global
food prices soar.  The value of farmland in the U.S. has probably gained 20
percent to 30 percent in the last two years, while Diggle’s
investments in Uruguay may have risen 50 percent as sheep and
cattle prices almost doubled in  Latin America  this year, he said.  Agriculture would be the “single most interest opportunity
over the next 10 to 20 years,” Diggle said.  Vulpes favors investments in metals, energy and food, and
“dislikes” government bonds, he said.  “Being long stuff in the ground is going to be a better
place to be than holding pieces of paper,” Diggle said.  The firm’s Testudo Fund, which is heavily invested in
precious metals and the  mining industry , has gained 2.5 percent
this year. The  Russian Opportunities Fund  has declined about 10
percent in the same period.  ‘Biggest Risk’  Governments and their policies represent the biggest threat
to investors, he said. “The biggest risk will come from
governments: government interference in markets, government debt
and government manufacturing of  paper money  to pay off the
debt,” he said.  Diggle said he’s focusing on “new exciting commercially
viable technology” in the life sciences industry that will find
cures for illnesses including cancer and  Parkinson’s disease .  “We certainly see a lot of interest by big pharma in small
innovative biotechnology,” Diggle said. “If we can find those
small new exciting biotechnology companies before big pharma
gets to them, there’s a big uptick in terms of valuation if they
can prove their work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in  Singapore  
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  