-- Frankenthaler Bridged Genres, Created Worlds of Burning Color
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2011-12-28T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/helen-frankenthaler-bridged-art-genres-created-worlds-of-burning-color.html
Helen Frankenthaler, who died today
at 83 after a long illness, provided a bridge between Abstract
Expressionism and Color Field painting, with her lyric and
gestural brushwork, bold color shapes and fluid, shimmering
washes.  An avid printmaker as well as a painter, Frankenthaler was
an individualist, an experimentalist and a romantic. Often
associated with Abstract Expressionism, in part because of her
husband, Robert Motherwell, and with Color Field artists, she
occupied a region unto herself.  “It would be hard to find an artist of her generation as
open to risk and change and range” said Ann Freedman, former
president of the gallery Knoedler & Co. and the artist’s
longtime friend and dealer.  “Helen was open to everything around her,” Freedman said.
“People, nature, art. She never worked in series. Everything was
a one-off.”  Born in  New York City  in 1928 to Martha (Lowenstein) and
Alfred Frankenthaler, a New York State Supreme court judge,
Helen Frankenthaler studied at the Dalton School with the
Mexican figurative, symbolist painter Rufino Tamayo. She also
studied briefly with Hans Hofmann, who probably helped to
instill in her a love of abstraction and of European art.  Perhaps from Tamayo, she acquired a mystical edge that
informed her entire career and provided open and atmospheric
color -- decorative counterpoint -- to the bravado and post-
Cubist structure in the work of New York School artists Willem de Kooning, Franz Kline and  Jackson Pollock .  ‘Mountains and Sea’  Frankenthaler is credited with refining the technique of
“staining,” beginning with the seminal, landscape-inspired
abstraction “Mountains and Sea” (1952). Taking her cues from
Pollock, she poured layers of turpentine-thinned oil paint on
unprimed canvas, which, like Pollock, she had laid directly on
the studio floor.  “Mountains and Sea,”  merging rock, ocean and horizon into
a surreal, transparent mass, recalls the work of artists as
diverse as Arthur Dove, Arshile Gorky and  Paul Klee . Like Klee,
who sometimes treated oil painting like watercolor,
Frankenthaler explored a dying process that fused color, canvas
and space, and which had enormous influence on Color Field
painters Morris Louis and Kenneth Noland.  Frankenthaler’s primary gift was a feeling for free, open,
saturated color -- for creating, and immersing us in, painted
worlds in which liquid, solid form and air are hazy,
pressurized, interchangeable -- in continual states of becoming.  Lack of Meat  The openness in Frankenthaler’s work at times can be too
thin and merely decorative. The lack of meat and structure can
give the impression of something wishy-washy. Her suggestions of
natural elements aren’t rigorous or specific enough. She
sometimes sets us adrift in saccharine fields.  In her best pictures, however, such as “Yin Yang” (1990)
and “Tattoo” (1983), Frankenthaler is a true painter --
perhaps more French than American. Like  Mark Rothko , she evokes
not the look but the actions of nature. Her colors burn and rub
against one another, suggesting moments in Pierre Bonnard and
Titian.  It will be interesting, in light of the recent closing of
Knoedler, to see who will represent her estate. Knoedler and
Freedman, its former director, were sued in early December over
the authenticity of a painting the gallery said was by Pollock.  Freedman, who declined to comment on the suit for this
article, said of Frankenthaler: “I just want to honor and
protect her work, her wishes and her legacy.”  That is exactly what an artist of Frankenthaler’s stature
deserves.  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund in New York at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 