-- Mengniu Falls Most in More Than Three Years After Toxin Found in Its Milk
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-28T09:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/mengniu-shares-plunge-on-tainted-milk-report.html
China Mengniu Dairy Co. (2319) , the
nation’s largest milk producer, fell the most in more than three
years in Hong Kong trading after saying moldy feed given to cows
led to excessive levels of a toxin in its milk.  Mengniu declined 24 percent to HK$20 at the close in Hong
Kong, the most since September 2008.  China Modern Dairy Holdings
Ltd. (1117) , a Mengniu supplier, fell 13.4 percent.  The stock plunge wiped out HK$11 billion ($1.4 billion)
from Mengniu’s market value, reflecting investor concern over
food scandals in  China  that include melamine-tainted formula
milk that killed at least six babies in 2008 and an illegal
additive to pork this year. Mengniu will strengthen quality-
control measures and the contaminated  milk products  have been
destroyed, the company said today.  “Consumers are more and more concerned about food safety
in China, making the market more sensitive to this kind of
news,” Olive Xia, a Shanghai-based analyst at Core Pacific-
Yamaichi International Ltd., said by telephone.  Xia, who is maintaining a “buy” rating on the Hohhot,
Inner Mongolia-based company, said she will revise down her 12-
month stock-price estimate of HK$32 to reflect the latest news.  A random inspection by Chinese regulators found one out of
25 batches of Mengniu’s milk tested positive for the toxin, the
company said. The samples were taken from a warehouse and none
had been released for sale, it said.  Moldy, Deteriorated Fodder  “The Group believes that the incident was caused by moldy
and deteriorated fodder taken by milk cows,” Mengniu said in a
statement. At present, all products in markets within and
outside China, including  Hong Kong , “have passed relevant
standards,” it said.  The General Administration of Quality Supervision,
Inspection and Quarantine, citing the results of tests carried
out on milk products, first reported the excessive toxin levels
found in products from Mengniu and closely held Fujian Changfu
Dairy Industry Group Co. on Dec. 24.  The amount of toxin in one batch of Mengniu milk was more
than double the nation’s permitted level, an unidentified
official at the regulator said  in an interview  with the official
Xinhua News Agency on Dec. 26. The amount in Changfu’s milk
products was almost twice the standard, the official said.  China has ordered local regulators to toughen inspections
of milk products for the toxin and to recall them if it is found
to be present, according to the interview.  Food-Safety  Crackdown  This year, the government has shut more than 5,000
companies that violated rules, arrested more than 2,000 people,
and handed down at least one death sentence in a crackdown on
food safety.  Pork products containing an illegal additive used to
produce lean meat were found earlier this year. In 2008, formula
milk containing  melamine , used to make plastics, sickened about
300,000 babies, including six who died and more than 54,000 who
were hospitalized. Sanlu Group Co., one of 22 companies that
sold the tainted formula, went bankrupt in December 2008.  “The under-developed dairy sector supply chain in China
makes it almost impossible for major dairy companies like
Mengniu to fully guarantee end-product quality,” Selina Sia, an
analyst at Mirae Asset Securities Co. in Hong Kong, said by
telephone. “Fundamentally, Mengniu is worth HK$19.60 until we
find out how badly the business is being affected by the latest
quality issue,” said Sia, who rates the stock “reduce.”  China Modern Dairy and its subsidiaries generated 97
percent of revenue from Mengniu in the year ended June 30,
according to the Anhui, China-based company’s  annual report .
Deng Jiuqiang, China Modern Dairy’s chairman, was a co-founder
and former vice chairman of a Mengniu subsidiary, the report
showed.  Cofco Dairy Investment Ltd., a company affiliated to Cofco
Corp., China’s largest food maker, is Mengniu’s biggest
shareholder with a 19.7 percent stake, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  