-- Tennessee Titans First-Year Coach Mike Munchak Doesn’t Want Penn State Job
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2011-12-29T05:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/tennessee-titans-first-year-coach-mike-munchak-doesn-t-want-penn-state-job.html
Tennessee  Titans first-year coach
Mike Munchak, who played on the offensive line under former  Penn
State University  coach  Joe Paterno , says he is not interested in
the Nittany Lions job.  Munchak told reporters that while he respects his alma
mater and hopes the school finds a successful coach, he has had
no contact with the school regarding the vacancy and has no
desire to leave Tennessee.  “I have a job I enjoy quite a bit,‘‘ Munchak, 51, said
yesterday in a news conference after Titans practice. ‘‘I would
love to stay involved with Penn State in some way, but I’m
coaching the Titans and I’m very happy with what I’m doing.’’  Munchak was the top pick of  Penn State ’s search committee,
the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette  reported  yesterday, citing
unidentified people. The committee is looking for a replacement
to the 85-year-old Paterno, who was fired last month following
his handling of child sex-abuse charges against former Nittany
Lions assistant Jerry Sandusky.  ‘‘Penn State means a lot to me. I went to school there and
I am real concerned for what they have gone through the last
couple of months,’’ Munchak said.  Penn State spokesman  Jeff Nelson  said in an e-mail that he
had no comment on the search.  Munchak was an offensive lineman at Penn State from 1978 to
1981. A 2001 inductee into the Pro Football Hall of Fame, he has
spent his entire National Football League career with the
Titans’ organization as a player, assistant coach and head
coach.  Titans’ Playoff Chances  The Titans (8-7) are one of four teams -- along with the
 New York Jets  -- still in contention for the sixth and final
playoff spot in the American Football Conference. The Titans
need a win against the Houston Texans on Jan. 1 to have any
chance of capturing a playoff berth, the franchise’s first in
three years.  Tom Bradley  is 1-2 as Penn State’s interim coach following
Paterno’s ouster. The Nittany Lions play the  University of
Houston  in the TicketCity Bowl on Jan. 2.  Green Bay Packers quarterbacks coach Tom Clements, a former
All-American at the  University of Notre Dame , is next on the
committee’s list of potential Paterno successors, according to
the Post-Gazette.  Munchak said he did not think the school would have trouble
finding a successful coach.  ‘‘It’s such a great program that I don’t believe it will
be a program that will suffer long as far as on the football
field,” he said. “There is healing involved when something
like this happens to the university itself, but as far as the
football program goes, it’s a great program and it has great
tradition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  