-- Tepco Plunges to Lowest Since 1974 as Edano Suggests Government Takeover
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2011-12-28T06:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/tepco-shares-plunge-as-edano-suggests-japan-should-take-control-of-company.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. shares fell
to the lowest in at least 37 years after Trade and Industry
Minister  Yukio Edano  said the company should consider being
nationalized.  The stock fell 12 percent to close at 186 yen, the lowest
since at least September 1974, on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. It
was the  worst  performer among the benchmark Topix 1,659 members.  Tepco’s shares have plunged 91 percent since the day before
the March 11 quake and tsunami wrecked the utility’s Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear station, wiping out about 3.1 trillion yen ($39
billion) in market value, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Edano’s comments increased uncertainty over the future of
Tepco” and speculation of a possible delisting of the shares,
Takashi Aoki, who helps manage 120 billion yen at Tokyo-based
Mizuho Asset Management Co., said by telephone.  The company yesterday requested 689.4 billion yen ($8.8
billion) in additional aid to pay compensation linked to the
Fukushima disaster. Edano countered with the option to
nationalize the company, without saying if that would require an
injection of public funds or some other means.  ‘All Options’  “I want you to consider all options including temporary
government control of Tepco” as the company needs to improve
its finances for compensation payments and raise funds for
decommissioning the reactors at Fukushima, Edano told the
company’s president Toshio Nishizawa in a meeting last night.  The utility, which supplies power to Metropolitan  Tokyo ,
the world’s biggest city, needs support from the government’s
Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation Fund to avoid insolvency.
It may face 4.5 trillion yen in compensation payments by 2013 to
those who lost livelihoods and homes as a result of radiation
fallout from the Fukushima atomic station.  To avoid the collapse of the company, Tepco needs “an
increase in electricity rates or a restart of its nuclear
reactors,” said Aoki.  On Dec. 22, the company said it plans to raise electricity
rates for companies from April and seek approval from the
government to raise tariffs for households.  “Making a request to raise electricity rates is a right
and an obligation as a utility,” Nishizawa said when the
company announced the plan.  Edano disagreed with that view yesterday, telling Tepco
raising electricity rates isn’t “a right” given to utilities.
The company needs to win back public confidence before raising
power prices, the minister said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  