-- Epidurals Linked to Paralysis Seen With $300 Billion Pain Market
-- B y   D a v i d   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2011-12-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/epidurals-linked-to-paralysis-seen-with-300-billion-pain-market.html
Valinda Parrish talks to her 60-
year-old husband like a doting mother speaks to a child. “I am
going to go outside for a little bit,” she tells him. “Use
your horn if you need me.”  Rollie Parrish, nearly blind and in a wheelchair, toots the
air horn he keeps on his lap if he wants something to eat or has
to go to the bathroom. Four years ago, the Vietnam veteran had
just spent a weekend deer hunting when he went to a hospital
near his home in Nederland,  Texas , for a shot of steroids to his
neck to ease chronic pain. He suffered a stroke during the
procedure, according to a lawsuit that was settled out of court.
“He knows what happened to him, and he is angry,” his wife of
29 years said in an interview.  A surge in steroid injections to alleviate back and neck
pain in the U.S. is bringing with it an increase in severe and
unexpected complications, including paralysis and death. Reports
of the side effects have prompted the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration to review the safety of steroid injections into
the epidural space near the spinal cord, in consultation with an
advisory group, the agency confirmed. Some 8.9 million Americans
received the shots last year.  “We used to say this is so safe,” said James Rathmell,
chief of pain medicine at  Massachusetts General Hospital  in
Boston and a member of the advisory group, who alerted the FDA
to cases of such shots causing harsh complications. “It is a
very rare event, but it is not zero, and it’s devastating.”  Booming Pain Market  The review comes during a boom in epidural shots, which
take minutes to administer and bring doctors profitable
reimbursements from Medicare and private insurers.  Steroid shots have become the most popular way physicians
in the U.S. treat neck and back pain, according to research
studies. One by Laxmaiah Manchikanti, chairman of the  American
Society of Interventional Pain Physicians , found the number of
such injections to Medicare patients increased 159 percent
between 2000 and 2010.  That growth reflects a rise in spending on all treatments
for all kinds of pain, a market estimated to be as much as  $300
billion  a year. Epidurals are one of the interventional
procedures -- including implants of spinal cord stimulators and
shots of pain killers -- on which Americans spent $23 billion
this year, 231 percent more than in 2002, according to
Marketdata Enterprises Inc., a Tampa, Florida-based company that
has tracked the market since 1992. These are distinct from more
invasive approaches, such as spinal fusion and disc surgery.  Critical Arteries  The rise in the injections, according to doctors, is being
driven by two events: an aging population prone to back and neck
pain and generous reimbursements for treatments.  “The problem with interventional pain is the majority of
treatment is medical management,” Rathmell said. “If you pay
people to do stuff, they will do more stuff.”  For a typical epidural steroid shot, Medicare pays about
$200 if given in a doctor’s office, about $400 if done at a
surgery center and about $600 if performed at a hospital.  Some private insurers reimburse more, as much as 150
percent of Medicare rates, according to companies that provide
billing services to physicians. The cost of the equipment,
supplies and staffing needed for a typical shot can be as low as
$120, according to Edgewater, Maryland-based Mowles Medical
Practice Management LLC.  Known technically as corticosteroids, the drugs used in the
injections have anti-inflammatory powers that make them popular
for easing pain in hips, knees, shoulders and other parts of the
body, in addition to the back and neck. The FDA review of the
epidural shots is being conducted by the agency’s Safe Use
Initiative, a  unit  formed in 2009 to reduce “preventable harm”
from medications, said  Sandy Walsh , an FDA spokeswoman. She said
it was too early to know what action might be taken.  Slow to Dissolve  Walsh said the agency is focusing on steroid injections
made with the so-called transforaminal approach, which brings a
needle within millimeters of critical arteries feeding the
spinal cord. It was the method used on Parrish, the suit said.  About half of the 8.9 million epidural steroid shots in the
U.S. last year were administered that way, Manchikanti said.  Another area of concern, according to Rathmell and other
physicians advising the FDA, is the use of particulate steroids,
a form of the drug that is slow to dissolve and that they said
may create blockages that trigger strokes if accidentally shot
into arteries.  Particulate steroids include Kenalog from  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY)  and Depo-Medrol from  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , as well as generic
versions of the two.  The labels for both formulations of Kenalog “clearly state
they are not indicated for epidural use,” said Ken Dominski, a
spokesman for Bristol-Myers, in an e-mail. The Kenalog label
says that “reports of serious medical events, including death”
have been associated with such shots. Parrish was injected with
a mixture that included Kenalog, according to the lawsuit.  Reporting Harmful Results  A spokeswoman for Pfizer, Joan Campion, said in an e-mail
that Depo-Medrol “has over 50 years of clinical use with a
well-established safety profile when administered properly.”  There is no comprehensive system to track complications
related to steroid injections, or any other drugs. While the FDA
requires manufacturers to report harmful results they learn of,
healthcare professionals are under no such obligation.  Until about a decade ago, the kinds of injuries Parrish
suffered weren’t thought to be a possible effect of epidural
steroid injections, according to doctors who specialize in pain
treatment. They said the most common consequences they saw were
relatively minor, such as headaches.  Then researchers and malpractice insurance companies began
learning of cases of people becoming paralyzed and even dying
after receiving the shots, recounting the phenomenon in alerts
to doctors and in medical publications.  ‘Devastating’ Complications  A survey of physicians reported in the journal Spine in
2007 uncovered 78 cases where patients who got shots in the
neck, known as the cervical area of the upper spine, suffered
serious injuries; there were 13 deaths.  “When you look at cervical complications, these are
devastating,” said Richard Rosenquist, chairman of the pain
management department at the Cleveland Clinic in  Ohio  and head
of the panel that wrote the pain-practice guidelines for the
American Society of Anesthesiologists.  Earlier this year, an analysis of malpractice claims
between 2005 and 2008 identified 31 cases in which patients who
received the shots in the neck reported spinal cord injuries,
and eight who suffered strokes. In the analysis, Rathmell and
colleagues in  Boston  and at the University of  Washington  in
 Seattle  called the cases “alarming” and said there is an
“extreme dearth of evidence” about the safety of the shots.  Temporary Respite  The anti-inflammatory effect of the steroids, which are
usually mixed with a local anesthetic, is short-term. Doctors
typically caution patients that the treatment provides only a
temporary respite, if any at all.  For Rollie Parrish, who worked as a painter for the city of
Beaumont, Texas, the goal was getting relief from neck and
shoulder pain so he could enjoy Christmas in 2007, according to
his wife. His doctor referred him to anesthesiologist Ravi
Halaswamy, who specializes in treating pain.  On Dec. 13 at Christus St. Elizabeth Hospital in Beaumont,
Parrish received a shot of two steroids -- dexamethasone and
Kenalog -- in the middle of his neck. Halaswamy inserted the
needle into an area where nerve roots exit the spinal canal, the
lawsuit against Halaswamy said.  Within seconds, the suit said, the upper left part of
Parrish’s body began contracting in signs of a stroke. A
breathing tube was inserted, and critical care experts decided
Parrish should undergo surgery to relieve swelling in his brain,
the suit said. It said he was left with what hospital records
described as “terminal and irreversible” symptoms.  Confidential Settlement  Three weeks later, he was diagnosed as being in a so-called
locked-in state that the suit described as similar to being
buried alive. While Parrish was able to hear and see, he
couldn’t respond because his muscles were paralyzed.  Intense physical, psychological and speech therapy have
allowed him to speak again, Valinda Parrish said. The lawsuit
claimed he wasn’t warned brain injury was a possible consequence
and said that if he had been, he probably would have declined to
undergo the procedure.  The case against Halaswamy was settled with an agreement
that the terms not be disclosed, according to Parrish’s lawyer,
Collin Cobb. An attorney for Halaswamy, Matthew Hughes, said the
doctor had denied the allegations in court documents, and
declined to be interviewed for this story.  ‘No Role’  The transforaminal approach is favored by some doctors as
it delivers the solution closer to the nerves causing pain than
other techniques. Because it sends the needle so near to
arteries, other doctors said they believe the dangers of that
approach are too high.  Cervical injections using the transforaminal approach have
“no role” considering the risks, said  Manchikanti , who is a
professor at the University of Louisville in  Kentucky . He said
the pain society he heads has stopped teaching the technique.  While injections to the neck are considered riskier because
the epidural space is narrower, researchers said shots to other
areas can result in complications.  Luciano Rolando was 82 when he received a shot of Kenalog
in the lower back. A former automobile industry executive who
retired to Naples,  Florida , he had suffered back pain for years
before being referred to Stephen L. Friedman of the
Comprehensive Pain Center of Naples.  Severe Weakness  Within hours of the injection in June 2009, Rolando was
experiencing pain in his legs and losing sensation when
urinating, according to a lawsuit he filed in state court.
Eventually, Rolando became incontinent and suffered severe leg
weakness, his complaint says. Today, he uses a wheelchair and
wears adult diapers, according to his lawyer, Gary Wilkins.  Wilkins said an expert he hired said air entered Rolando’s
spinal cord during the injection, and that the procedure was
inherently risky because of his age and the fact he was taking
blood thinning medication at the time of the procedure.  Ilisa Hoffman, an attorney representing Friedman, said her
client denies he was negligent.  “The steroid injection was indicated and necessary and was
performed correctly,” she said. “Dr. Friedman is an extremely
qualified pain management specialist and performed the injection
absolutely appropriately.”  Physicians who do epidurals in hospitals typically undergo
a review by a credentialing committee and, if approved, are
assigned a monitor who reviews their work. In other settings,
doctors may not be required to have any special training.  ‘Unsuspecting Public’  The  Cleveland Clinic ’s Rosenquist said there are dangers in
the fact that most any doctor can give someone a spinal
injection. “The unsuspecting public has no idea someone might
have gone to a weekend course and on Monday morning is testing
out their brand new skill on you,” he says. “It’s horrible.”  Medicare patients receive transforaminal epidurals in a
doctor’s office more than any other setting, according to a 2010
audit by the inspector general for the  U.S. Department of Health 
and Human Services. It found a third of the shots didn’t meet
Medicare requirements, 13 percent because they weren’t medically
necessary and the rest when providers submitted bills that
lacked documentation showing why the shot was needed or when the
procedure was improperly coded. In some cases, according to the
audit, multiple shots were given in close intervals with no
evidence they were relieving pain.  “Unfortunately, universally accepted guidelines regarding
the number of spinal interventions deemed excessive do not
currently exist,” researchers at the  University of Colorado 
said in a study published this month in the Spine Journal.  Limiting Shots  The North American Spine Society this year  suggested  a
maximum of four injections within six months for cervical
epidurals, adding that setting “an absolute limit” on the
number “would seem inappropriate and may overly restrict some
patients from receiving necessary and reasonable care.”  The  guidelines  for pain management from the American
Society of Anesthesiologists make no mention of how many shots
are appropriate. The  Mayo Clinic  in Rochester,  Minnesota ,  tells 
patients shots are usually restricted to a few annually because
steroids can weaken spinal bones and nearby muscles and upset
the natural hormone balance, leading to potentially serious
medical conditions. The risk of side effects may increase with
the number of steroid injections, the clinic warns on its
website.  The study by the Colorado researchers, who mined a database
of insurance payments to more than 12 million people, found one
patient who was billed for 51 epidural injections in a year. A
New Jersey man who received 13 of the shots in a five-month
period after injuring his spine in a car accident said they
caused him to suffer  kidney failure , according to a lawsuit
filed in state court last year.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
David Armstrong in Boston at 
 darmstrong16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  