-- European Gasoline Rises Amid Petroplus Concerns: Oil Products
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2011-12-28T14:55:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/european-gasoline-rises-amid-petroplus-concerns-oil-products.html
European gasoline’s premium to  Brent
crude , or crack, rose to a two-month high amid concern that
Petroplus Holding AG’s fuels output may be reduced after lenders
froze credit lines. Barges of the fuel also gained.  Gasoil rebounded on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The front-month gasoil crack climbed.  Light Products  Gasoline  for immediate loading in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-
Antwerp traded at $929 a metric ton, according to a Bloomberg
survey of brokers monitoring the Argus Bulletin Board. That’s
the most since Nov. 11, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BP Plc sold to OAO Lukoil’s trading arm and to Cargill Inc.
The trades are for Eurobob grade to which ethanol is added to
make finished motor fuel.  The motor fuel’s  premium  to Brent advanced to $3.36 a
barrel, the most since Oct. 28, according to data from PVM Oil
Associates Ltd, a crude and refined products broker in  London .  “The loss of total refining capacity if the Petroplus
system shuts down will be too great in our opinion and will
support the product cracks,”  Olivier Jakob , managing director
at Petromatrix GmbH in  Switzerland , said today in a note.  Petroplus  said yesterday in a statement that about $1
billion in uncommitted loans had been frozen by lenders, adding
it was working to maintain its operations. Chief Executive
Officer Jean-Paul Vettier wasn’t immediately able to comment
when contacted by Bloomberg News earlier today.  Naphtha’s  discount  to Brent widened to $7.90 a barrel from
$7.77 on Dec. 23, PVM data show.  Middle Distillates  Gasoil for February gained 0.1 percent to $922.25 a ton at
1:54 p.m. London time, according to ICE exchange data. Front-
month Brent dropped 1 percent to $108.13 a barrel.  The heating fuel’s  crack , a measure of refining
profitability, rose to $15.15 a barrel from $14.84 at 4:30 p.m.
on Dec. 23, according to ICE data.  Refineries  Petroplus management are meeting with unions at the Petit
Couronne refinery in  France  today, Laurent Patinier, a
representative of the CFDT union, said by phone.  “They are clearly planning to stop the five European
refineries,” Patinier said. “When you can’t pay for crude, you
have to stop operations.” The company’s five refineries have a
combined throughput capacity of about 667,000 barrels a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  