-- Euro Falls to 15-Month Low Versus Dollar
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2011-12-29T22:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/euro-near-decade-low-against-yen-on-ecb-balance-sheet-italy-debt-auctions.html
The euro fell to a 15-month low
against the dollar as Italian bond yields rose after the nation
sold less than its maximum target at an auction, highlighting
funding difficulties amid the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The 17-nation currency dropped to a decade low versus the
yen as concern increased that the  European Central Bank  will
inject more cash into the financial system to avoid a credit
crunch from the region’s debt crisis. The yen and dollar
strengthened against most of their major counterparts as demand
increased for safer assets.  “The Italian debt auction was a little bit
underwhelming,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency
strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “The fact that the
10-year yield didn’t come down and they sold a bit less than
that maximum target amount, that spurred further euro selling.”  The euro rose 0.2 percent to $1.2961 at 5 p.m. in New York
after falling to $1.2858, the weakest level since Sept. 14,
2010. The common currency dropped 0.2 percent to 100.63 yen
after falling to 100.06, the lowest level since June 2001. The
yen appreciated 0.4 percent to 77.64 per dollar.  The euro erased its drop against the dollar as he
currency’s 14-day relative strength index against the dollar
traded at 33.8 today, approaching the 30 level that some traders
see as a sign it may be oversold and poised to reverse
direction.  Relative Performance  The shared European currency is the worst performer among
10 developed-nation currencies this year, declining 1.7 percent,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.
The euro today touched its lowest level since 2002 against the
index. The dollar has advanced 1.5 percent and the yen has
gained 4.8 percent.  South Africa ’s rand has declined 19 percent against the
dollar in 2011, the most of the U.S. currency’s major peers,
according to Bloomberg data, followed by  Mexico ’s peso, with a
11.8 percent loss. The yen has advanced 4.5 percent for the
largest gain against the greenback.  The  yield (GBTPGR10)  on benchmark Italian 10-year bonds traded above 7
percent, the level that forced  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland to
seek bailouts, after the nation auctioned debt.  The Treasury in Rome sold 2.5 billion euros ($3.2 billion)
of securities due in 2014, less than the 3 billion euro maximum
for the sale. The yield was 5.62 percent, down from 7.89 percent
at the previous sale on Nov. 29. The Treasury also auctioned
securities due in 2018, 2021 and 2022.  Italy Borrows  Italy plans to raise almost 450 billion euros from debt
sales next year, enough to cover 202 billion euros of maturing
bonds and finance a 23.6 billion-euro deficit, Maria Cannata,
director of public debt, said in a Dec. 24 interview with
newspaper Il Sole 24 Ore.  “If you look at where the 10-year Italian yields are,
they’re still nearing 7 percent and the German 10-year is
down,” said  Mary Nicola , a currency strategist at BNP Paribas
SA in  New York . “The spread is widening, so that can’t bode
well for the euro.”  The difference, or  spread (.USGER2) , between U.S. two-year notes and
similar maturity German debt rose to 11 basis points today, from
a low this year of minus 131 basis points. The widening
interest-rate differential, fueled by dropping bund yields,
signals increased investor demand for the safety of the German
securities amid the crisis.  Central Banking  The ECB cut its benchmark interest rate by 25 basis points
in November and December, to a record low of 1 percent. The cuts
came after it raised the benchmark rate by the same amount
earlier this year.  Canada ’s dollar rose to an 11-month high against the euro
after the Italian debt auction. The loonie, as the currency is
known, advanced 0.3 percent to C$1.3221 per euro. It gained 0.4
percent against its U.S. counterpart to C$1.0199.  “Money’s flowing out of Europe and that means out of the
euro,” said  Tony Crescenzi , a portfolio manager and strategist
at Pacific Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach ,
 California , which manages the world’s biggest bond fund. “The
world is still not all that interested in owning European bank
debt, European government debt, and that means de-risking,” he
said in an interview on Bloomberg Radio.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, fell 0.2 percent to 80.363. The measure is
head for a 1.8 percent gain this year after appreciating 1.3
percent last year, the first time it’s gained two years in a row
since 2001.  ECB Loans  The ECB’s balance sheet expanded to a record 2.73 trillion
euros, the Frankfurt-based central bank said yesterday. Lending
to euro-area banks jumped 214 billion euros to 879 billion euros
in the week ended Dec. 23, the ECB said.  The central bank last week awarded 523 banks three-year
loans totaling a record 489 billion euros to encourage lending
to companies and households and prevent a credit shortage.
Policy makers have resisted calls to step up their government
 bond purchases (ECBCSMP)  to cap borrowing costs in  Europe ’s peripheral
nations, choosing instead to assist the region’s financial
system with unlimited cheap loans.  “Things are not looking good in Europe and that could
continue to weigh on the euro,” said Thio Chin Loo, a
Singapore-based senior currency analyst at BNP Paribas SA. “The
size of the balance sheet of the ECB suggests banks need help,
and the central bank may expand it further. There’s also concern
about government funding early next year when lots of debt will
come due.”  The ECB also has more room to cut  interest rates  to a
record low early next year after reports showed the sovereign
debt crisis is damping inflation pressures.  The rate of growth in M3  money supply , which the ECB uses
as a gauge of future inflation, fell to 2 percent in November
from 2.6 percent in October, the Frankfurt-based central bank
said today. Growth in loans to households and companies across
the 17-nation euro area also slowed, while inflation in  Germany ,
the region’s largest economy, decelerated in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  