-- Euro Falls to 10-Year Low Against Yen as ECB Balance Sheet Reaches Record
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2011-12-28T22:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/euro-drops-to-almost-a-10-year-low-as-ecb-loans-fuel-debt-crisis-concern.html
The euro dropped against the yen to
the lowest level since 2001 as the  European Central Bank ’s
balance sheet soared to a record after it lent regional banks
more money last week to keep credit flowing.  The 17-nation currency fell against the dollar to the least
since January as concern increased that the region’s sovereign-
debt crisis will curb growth, even as rates fell at an Italian
bill sale. The dollar gained as stocks dropped, boosting demand
for haven assets. The yen strengthened after a U.S. Treasury
report criticized  Japan  for intervening in the  currency market 
and as economic reports signaled slowing economic growth.  “We’re still so far from being out of the woods that even
on a day of being positive, people decided that the euro should
continue to fall,” said  David Mann , regional head of research
for the Americas at Standard Chartered Plc. in New York. “It’s
quite a sharp rise in the ECB balance sheet. It’s concern about
monetization already on the way in Europe.”  The euro dropped 0.9 percent to 100.86 yen at 5:01 p.m. in
New York. It touched 100.73 yen, the lowest level since 2001.
The shared currency fell 1 percent to $1.2941, touching $1.2912,
the least since Jan. 11. The dollar was little changed at 77.90
yen.  Chart Patterns  The common currency’s drop was exacerbated by a break below
a support level at $1.3156, according Sebastien Galy, a senior
foreign-exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London .  “There’s zero appetite for risk taking and it’s a
technically driven environment,” Galy said.  Implied volatility  for the currencies of the Group of Seven
nations was at 12.08 percent today, according to a JPMorgan
Chase & Co. index. It reached a high this year of 15.77 percent
in September.  “This is more about year-end, things have been illiquid,”
said  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp. in New York. “All it takes is a few
orders and a few trades to substantially knock the euro lower.”  The euro has depreciated 1.6 percent this year against nine
developed-nation counterparts as Europe’s debt crisis
intensified, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes. The dollar has advanced 1.7 percent and the
yen has gained 4.6 percent.  Winners, Losers  South Africa ’s rand has declined 19.3 percent against the
dollar in 2011, the most of the U.S. currency’s major peers,
according to Bloomberg data, followed by  Mexico ’s peso with an
11.8 percent loss. The yen has advanced 4 percent for the
largest gain against the greenback.  The ECB’s balance sheet expanded to a record 2.73 trillion
euros ($3.55 trillion). Lending to euro-area banks jumped 214
billion euros to 879 billion euros in the week ended Dec. 23,
the Frankfurt-based ECB said in a statement today.  The balance sheet increased by 239 billion euros in the
latest period and was 553 billion euros more than three months
ago.  Italy sold 9 billion euros of 179-day bills at a rate of
3.251 percent, down from 6.504 percent at the previous auction
of similar-maturity debt on Nov. 25. The Treasury also sold 1.7
billion euros of zero-coupon bonds due in September 2013 at a
yield of 4.85 percent, versus 7.81 percent on Nov. 25.  The nation will auction as much as 8.5 billion euros of
debt due between 2014 and 2022 tomorrow.  Italy’s Debt  Italian 10-year bond  yields  pared a drop after falling as
much as 25 basis points to 6.75 percent. They traded at 6.99
percent, compared with more than 7 percent reached yesterday,
the level that spurred  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek
bailouts.  “ Europe  has to decide what it wants to be, an economic
union or a political union, and the way you go about that is
fundamentally different,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior
currency strategist in New York at Bank of New York Mellon
Corp., in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance
Midday” with Pimm Fox.  The euro “could get down to perhaps
$1.20, $1.25 very briefly on  risk aversion , but then we could
get back to $1.40, perhaps the upper $1.40s by the end of the
year,” he said.  The Treasury Department, in a semi-annual report to
Congress on the currency policies of major trading partners,
criticized Japan, which unilaterally sold the yen twice in the
foreign-exchange market after Group of Seven economies jointly
intervened after the March earthquake. The operations in August
and October took place when market conditions were orderly and
global economic developments were affecting other major
currencies as well, the report said.  China ’s Role  The report also declined to brand China a manipulator of
its  exchange rate , while calling the yuan undervalued and vowing
to press for further appreciation of the currency. Trading in
the currency is limited to a band set daily by the People’s Bank
of China. It’s allowed to move 0.5 percent on either side of
that rate.  The yen also rose after reports showed  industrial
production  and retail sales dropped more than forecast in
November.  Industrial output decreased 2.6 percent in November from
the previous month, the trade ministry said in  Tokyo  today. The
median estimate of 29 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was
for output to fall 0.8 percent.  Retail sales  fell 2.3 percent last month from the previous
year. Economists estimated the measure would be unchanged,
according to a separate Bloomberg news survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  