-- Ex-NBA Team Official Sues Comcast Over 76ers Finder’s Fee
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2011-12-28T20:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/ex-nba-team-official-sues-comcast-over-76ers-finder-s-fee-1-.html
A  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  unit was sued by
former Portland Trailblazers President Bob Whitsitt over a
finder’s fee related to the sale of the Philadelphia 76ers
basketball team.  Comcast-Spectacor LP refused to pay a $2 million fee to
Whitsitt and Thomas Shine, a senior vice president for Reebok
International Ltd., after they introduced the company to
potential buyers, according to a complaint filed yesterday in
federal court in Philadelphia.  “The reasons articulated by defendants for their failure
to pay are patently frivolous and irrelevant as they impose
conditions for payment that do not exist in the agreement
between the parties,” Shine and Whitsitt said in the complaint.  A group led by  Joshua Harris , the co-founder of  Apollo
Global Management LLC , agreed to buy the National Basketball
Association team in July for about $280 million. The group,
which made the purchase as a personal investment, includes  David
Blitzer , who helped create the European office of  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) , Art Wrubel and Jason Levien.  In the complaint, Shine claims he introduced Levien and
other potential buyers to Comcast-Spectacor Chairman Ed Snider
in November and December 2010. Levien was identified as a
potential buyer in a written agreement between the company,
Shine and Whitsitt in January, according to the complaint.  Ike Richman, a spokesman for Philadelphia-based Comcast-
Spectacor, said that the lawsuit is “without merit.”  “We will vigorously defend ourselves in court,” Richman
said in an e-mail.  The case is Whitsitt v. Comcast-Spectacor LP, 11-cv-07842,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Pennsylvania 
(Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  