-- Facebook Poised to Lead Biggest U.S. Internet IPO Year Since 1999 Bubble
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2011-12-28T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/facebook-poised-to-lead-biggest-u-s-internet-ipo-year-since-99.html
Facebook Inc. and Yelp Inc. are set
to lead the biggest year for U.S. initial public offerings by
Internet companies since 1999, testing demand for IPOs after
investors lost money on  Zynga Inc.  and Pandora Media Inc.  With Facebook considering the largest Internet IPO on
record and regulatory filings showing that at least 14 other
Web-related companies are planning sales, the industry may raise
$11 billion next year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That would be the most since $18.5 billion of IPOs in 1999, just
before the dot-com bubble burst.  While surging sales growth may lure investors to Facebook,
the biggest social-networking site, heightened  stock volatility (VIX) 
and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis could temper the pace of
global IPOs after a 38 percent decline in 2011. Even Internet
companies may cut valuations for their offerings after  Zynga ,
the largest developer of games for Facebook, and online-radio
company Pandora slumped following share sales this year,
according to researcher Morningstar Inc.  “Technology is still a place where you can get
outperformance in terms of growth against a tepid market
backdrop,” said David Erickson, New York-based global co-head
of equity capital markets at Barclays Plc. “You might see more
IPOs emerge if we get resolution in Europe or stability that
makes investors more comfortable with the overall market.”  Global Performance  IPOs raised $155.8 billion in 2011, compared with $252
billion a year earlier, and U.S. initial offerings generated
$38.8 billion, about 10 percent less than in 2010, Bloomberg
data show. In  Asia , IPOs this year have raised $79.2 billion,
less than half the $176.5 billion last year, Bloomberg data
show.  While funds raised in Europe rose for the year, they sank
more than 95 percent since August from a year earlier after the
worsening debt crisis and a cut to the U.S. credit rating sapped
confidence in global markets.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  took the biggest share of both U.S. and
global IPOs for the second year in a row after working on
initial share sales by Glencore International Plc, HCA Holdings
Inc. and Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. Pen Pendleton, a spokesman
for New York-based Morgan Stanley, declined to comment.  The bank also was the lead underwriter on Zynga and
Pandora’s IPOs. The stocks’ declines following those public
debuts may prompt greater scrutiny of valuations in 2012, said
James Krapfel, an analyst at Morningstar in  Chicago .  “Investors will take a harder look at the numbers going
forward and need to see strong revenue and profit growth,”
Krapfel said. Bookings, an indication of deferred  revenue , at
 Zynga  have increased more slowly this year, suggesting the
company’s IPO price was too high, according to a Dec. 9
Morningstar report.  Zynga, Groupon  Zynga, which raised $1 billion in its IPO this month, has
since fallen 2.5 percent after going public at a valuation three
times that of rival Electronic Arts Inc., Oakland, California-
based Pandora has plunged 36 percent since its June 14 IPO.  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , is examining a
$10 billion offering that would value it at more than $100
billion, a person with knowledge of the matter said last month.
Total sales at Facebook in 2012 may surge 52 percent to 62
percent from this year’s projected $4.27 billion through
increased ad revenue, according to Debra Aho Williamson, an
analyst at EMarketer. Industrywide, the display ad market may
surge 24 percent to $12.3 billion this year.  Yelp, ExactTarget  “Tech offerings generally offer real growth, and investors
get very excited when they can’t find growth in the broader
market,” JD Moriarty, New York-based co-head of  equity capital
markets  for technology in the Americas at Bank of America Corp.,
said at a briefing this month.  Yelp, the consumer-review website operator, and e-mail
marketer ExactTarget Inc. both filed for IPOs in November. This
year, 19 Internet companies generated $6.6 billion in U.S.
initial share sales.  Glam Media Inc., a Web-advertising company that targets
women, plans to make its first IPO filing by the end of the
second quarter, people familiar with the matter said on Dec. 14.
AppNexus Inc., the online-ad company backed by Microsoft Corp.,
may go public in late 2012, Chief Executive Officer Brian O’Kelley said in September. Companies like MobiTV Inc. and
Eloqua Ltd., which rely on the Internet to distribute cloud-
based software products to clients, may seek an additional $650
million, regulatory filings show.  Europe’s Woes  In Europe, the IPO market has “essentially come to a
halt” as the sovereign-debt crisis spread from  Greece  to
Portugal and  Italy , said Mary Ann Deignan, New York-based head
of equity capital markets for the Americas at Bank of America.
In September, Siemens AG suspended an IPO of its Osram lighting
unit and  Spain  pulled the initial public offering of its lottery
operator as global stocks headed for a one-year low.  “There are companies that would like to go public, but are
waiting for the right market environment to do so,” said
Deignan, speaking at a briefing this month. “As long as
policymakers and politicians control the headlines, Europe
remains a challenge.”  RIB Software AG (RSTA)  raised 145 million euros ($189 million) in
February, this year’s biggest technology IPO in Western Europe.
 Yandex NV , owner of  Russia ’s most popular Internet search
engine, raised $1.4 billion in a U.S. IPO in May, while
VKontakte, the largest Russian social networking website, also
may sell shares in  New York  next year, people with knowledge of
the matter said in June.  Months Behind  “The IPO market in Europe is probably six months behind
where we are in Asia and the U.S.,”  Brad Miller , New York-based
global co-head of equity syndicate at Deutsche Bank AG, said at
a briefing this month. The first pickup of stock-sale activity
in Europe may come as governments sell state-owned assets to the
public through spinoffs, Miller said.  Still, even in  Hong Kong , where growth from mainland  China 
will spur demand, a busier calendar may not come until the
second half, said John Lydon, co-head of Asia equity capital
markets at Deutsche Bank.  Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd. and New China Life
Insurance Co. both fell on their first day of trading in Hong
Kong this month after selling shares at or near the bottom of
proposed price ranges. Others such as Perfect Shape (PRC)
Holdings Ltd. pulled offerings.  Private-Equity IPOs  IPOs by private-equity firms have also dried up this year,
with owners instead pursuing secondary offerings. Last month,
firms including Bain Capital LLC,  Carlyle Group  and Thomas H.
Lee Partners LP raised $613 million from selling shares in
Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc., the doughnut chain they took public
in July. This year,  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and other investors generated $2.1
billion from secondary offerings of stock in Dollar General
Corp., whose IPO occurred in 2009.  Private-equity firms seeking to unravel investments made
during the record buyout boom from 2005 to 2007 may follow
through with IPOs if markets stabilize, said Robert H. McCooey Jr., senior vice president of new listings and capital markets
at Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. in New York.  “Given the right market conditions, there will certainly
be some of those companies that will be looking to exit into the
public markets,” McCooey said. Toys “R” Us Inc., backed by
buyout firms including KKR, filed for an IPO in May 2010 and has
yet to complete a sale.  Some technology companies have also held off. Travel-
website operator Kayak Software Corp. filed plans for a $50
million IPO in November 2010. LivingSocial.com, which considered
a $1 billion IPO earlier this year, instead chose to raise $400
million from private investors, people familiar with the matter
said this month.  Hot Names  Many Web-focused companies that completed IPOs in 1999,
such as EToys Inc. and Drkoop.com Inc., fell victim to the
subsequent technology-stock collapse as shareholders abandoned
the unprofitable ventures. The performance of new  Internet
stocks (RGUSTL)  next year will show whether investors are ready to dive
back into the Web, said Laurent Morel of Societe Generale SA.  “Technology IPOs are definitely the theme there, with lots
of hot names like Zynga coming to the market,” said Morel, the
Paris-based global head of equity capital markets. “But if you
look at their performance, most of them are struggling. Next
year will be the real test.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  