-- Finnish Utilities Struggle to Restore Power After Storm Ends
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2011-12-28T14:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/finnish-utilities-struggle-to-restore-power-after-storm-dagmar.html
Fortum (FUM1V)  Oyj and other utilities in
Finland struggled to restore power to homes after two days of
storm winds felled trees and caused damage across the Nordic
region.  About 94,000 Finnish homes were blacked out, down from
180,000 this morning, some for the second day, power companies
including Fortum said on their websites. Fortum had 46,000
people affected, while Sweden’s  Vattenfall AB  couldn’t service
18,400 customers in Finland.  In Sweden, 9,600 people were without electricity today,
according to the websites of the three-largest utilities,
including Vattenfall and  EON AG. (EOAN)   Norway ’s grid operator Statnett
AS said that about 5,000 clients were still without power.  Winds caused “great damage” to the Finnish  power grid ,
which needs to be rebuilt in some places, Fortum said today in a
statement on its website. The repairs may take days in some
areas, the Espoo-based company said.  In  Finland , local utility Savon Voima Oyj had 10,700
clients blacked out, Suur-Savon Saehkoe Oy reported 9,000 homes
affected, while Pohjois-Karjalan Saehkoe Oy had 9,800 stricken
customers.  The storm Dagmar lashed the Nordic countries with
hurricane-strength winds, cutting power, damaging buildings,
shutting roads and halting trains. Finland suffered from two
days of strong winds, with gusts reaching 25 meters per second
(56 miles per hour) yesterday and 30 meters per second on Dec.
26, the Finnish Meteorological Institute said.  Hurricane-Strength Winds  The highest average wind measured in Norway on Dec. 26 was
44.6 meters per second, with gusts reaching 64.7 meters per
second, Norway’s Meteorological Institute said. All measuring
stations in Norway had winds peaking at more than 32 meters per
second, or hurricane strength, the institute said.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc,  Europe ’s largest oil company,
resumed output at its Ormen Lange natural-gas field in Norway
today after the storm.  Norwegian insurance companies have received 2,700 claims
following the storm and thousands more are expected, a trade
group for insurers said. Claims have reached 162 million kroner
($27 million) and are expected to exceed the 275 million kroner
paid out after storm Berit, said Tonje Westby, a spokeswoman for
Finance Norway, which manages tracking damage from natural
disasters. Storm-related claims will probably exceed 1 billion
kroner this year, the most since 1995, she said in a statement
yesterday.  Disruptions continued on some Finnish train routes, with
buses replacing the trains, state-owned railway company VR Oy
said on its website. In  Sweden , all closed rail lines were
opened this morning, according to the Swedish Transport
Administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  