-- From Miraculous Birth to ‘Axis of Evil’: Dictator Kim Jong Il’s Timeline
-- B y   T a e j i n   P a r k
-- 2011-12-28T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/from-miraculous-birth-to-axis-of-evil-dictator-kim-jong-il-s-timeline.html
North  Korea  ends 12 days of official
mourning today for  Kim Jong Il , the dictator eulogized by his
nation’s state media as “Dear Leader.”  Kim died of a heart attack on Dec. 17, brought on by
exhaustion as he traveled the country by train offering guidance
to his people, according to the official account of his passing.  Below is a timeline of notable events during the life of
Kim, showing the contrast between the persona crafted by his
state media and the accounts of outsiders and the international
press.  Feb. 16, 1942: Born at a secret military camp on Mount
 Paektu , revered as the birthplace of the Korean people. His
birth was prophesied by a swallow, and heralded by a double
rainbow over the mountain, according to official accounts.  Records from the former Soviet Union show he was born on
Feb. 16, 1941, in Siberia, where his father trained as part of a
guerrilla resistance to Japanese rule.  1950-1960: Receives a general education in Pyongyang, the
North Korean capital, his official biography says.  Foreign researchers say he is more likely to have received
some of his early schooling in China, shielded from the  Korean
War , which ended in 1953.  September 1960: Admitted to  Kim Il Sung  University in
Pyongyang, where he studies works including “The Communist
Manifesto” and “Das Kapital.” He finds limitations in the
theories of Marx and begins teaching others that his father, Kim Il Sung, is the “top intellect of the revolution,” according
to the biography.  July 1961: Joins the ruling Workers’ Party of Korea.  June 1964: Joins the party’s  Central Committee .  May 10, 1971: Birth of his first son, Kim Jong Nam, to the
late North Korean film star Song Hye Rim. Details on the lives
of Kim’s mistresses, who are not included in his official
history, have been recounted by defectors including Song’s
sister.  September 1973: Takes charge of the party’s propaganda
division.  February 1974: Workers’ Party and begins calling Kim “Dear
Leader.”  1978: Kim Has South Korean actress Choi Eun Hi and her
director husband Shin Sang Ok abducted and brought to North
Korea to build the local  movie industry , according to Yonhap
News.  October 1980: The Rodong newspaper celebrates Kim’s
continued rise within the Workers’ Party in an editorial that
proclaims: “Christians, do not go to  Jerusalem . Come rather to
Korea. Do not believe in God. Believe in the great man.”  1983 or 1984: Birth of his third son and eventual successor,
Kim Jong Un. The younger Kim’s birthday and information about
his mother have not been given in official accounts. She was a
Japanese-born ethnic Korean who became Kim Jong Il’s second
mistress after he saw her dancing, according to an account by
Kim’s former Japanese sushi chef.  October 1983: Bombing in Myanmar kills 17 South Koreans,
including three ministers, in an attack that was the work of
North Korean agents carrying out instructions from Kim,
according to the government in  Seoul .  November 1987: Korean Air Flight 858 explodes in mid-air,
killing all 155 passengers on board. A North Korean agent who
confessed to South Korean authorities of planting the bomb said
the order came from “Dear Leader himself,” on a hand-written
memo.  December 1991: Kim is appointed Supreme Commander of the
North Korean army.  April 1993: Kim becomes the chairman of the National
Defense Commission.  July 8, 1994: Kim Il Sung dies at age 82.  1997: Hwang Jang Yop, who taught Kim Jong Il at university
and helped craft the regime’s “Juche” ideology that stresses
self reliance, defects to  South Korea , according to the
government in Seoul.  October 1997: Assumes roles as General Secretary of the
Korean Workers’ Party.  August 1998:  North Korea  says it succeeds in putting
satellite into orbit.  Foreign governments say Kim’s regime test-fired a three-
stage, long range missile that flew over  Japan  before landing in
the  Pacific Ocean .  June 1998: Hyundai Group founder Chung Ju Yung herds cattle
across the border in a symbolic gesture to repay a debt to his
own father and help North Korea cope with famine.  June 2000: Kim and then South Korean President Kim Dae Jung
hold a summit in Pyongyang, marking the first meeting between
leaders of the divided peninsula.  October 2000: Tells U.S. Secretary of State  Madeleine
Albright  in Pyongyang that “if there’s no confrontation, there’s
no significance to  weapons .”  July 2001: Travels to Moscow by train for talks with
 Russia ’s  Vladimir Putin .  Stops several times en route to restock with French wines
and live lobsters, according to Konstantin Pulikovsky, a Russian
envoy who traveled with Kim and recounted the trip in his book
“The Orient Express.”  January 2002: U.S. President George W. Bush names Kim’s
regime as part of an  “axis of evil”  that also includes Iran
and Iraq  September 2002: Meets Japanese Prime Minister  Junichiro
Koizumi . Koizumi discusses North Korean missile tests and
charges that it abducted Japanese citizens, according to
Japanese broadcaster NHK.  Five Japanese kidnapped by Kim’s agents in 1978 were
reunited with their families a month later while the remaining
seven had died due to accident or illnesses, NHK said.  January 2003: The U.S. and its allies suspend fuel-oil
shipments to North Korea after the communist nation says it has
a nuclear weapons program and withdraws from the Nuclear Non-
Proliferation Treaty.  October 2006: Kim’s regime tests a nuclear device, then
later agrees to return to negotiations on the condition the U.S.
agrees to discuss lifting financial sanctions.  October 2007: Kim meets Kim Dae Jung’s successor, Roh Moo
Hyun, in the second summit in Pyongyang between leaders of the
two Koreas.  Sept. 2008: Kim isn’t sighted at a military parade in
Pyongyang amid reports from foreign governments and press that
his health may be failing.  May 2009: North Korea says it conducted a second nuclear
test and also launched three short-range missiles, acts U.S.
President  Barack Obama  says are “a grave threat to the peace and
security of the world.”  March 2010: Forty-six sailors die when South Korea’s 1,200-
ton Cheonan patrol boat sinks near the maritime border with
North Korea. An international investigation concludes it was
sunk by torpedo from Kim’s military.  State media denies any involvement by North Korea.  August 2010: Kim makes his second trip to  China  in less
than four months, visiting areas associated with his father’s
days as an independence fighter against the Japanese.  South Korean and international reports note the trip
followed flooding that wiped out crops in a country battered by
United Nations sanctions, imposed in response to ballistic-
missile and nuclear tests.  February 2011: The Rodong newspaper praises Kim for his
will to build a “strong and prosperous country” in the spirit
of his father.  A month later the World Food Program releases a report that
says more than six million people are in urgent need of
international  food assistance .  Dec. 17, 2011: Kim Jong Il dies after giving his life’s
energy “for prosperity of the socialist homeland,” the Korean
Central News Agency reports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taejin Park in Seoul 
 tpark31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  