-- Johnson to Run as Libertarian for President
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2011-12-28T18:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/gary-johnson-to-run-as-libertarian-for-president.html
Former  New Mexico  Governor Gary Johnson, who has been excluded from most Republican presidential
debates and has barely registered in polls of the race, said he
instead will seek the Libertarian nomination for the White
House.  “I am a Libertarian -- that is, someone who is fiscally
very conservative but holds freedom-based positions on the
issues that govern our personal behavior,” Johnson, 58, said in
a statement as he announced his decision at the New Mexico State
Capitol in  Santa Fe . “This election is about issues larger than
party or personal ambition. The future of our country is at
stake. I believe this election needs a true libertarian voice.”  The Libertarian nominee will be selected in May at the
party’s convention. Its 2008 nominee, former Republican U.S.
Representative Bob Barr of  Georgia , garnered 523,715 votes, 0.4
percent of the total cast, Federal Election Commission reports
show.  U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas , who is seeking the
2012 Republican presidential nomination, ran as the Libertarian
nominee in 1988. He got 432,179 votes, 0.5 percent of the total,
according to the FEC.  ‘Fiscal Sanity’  “All of the Republican Party presidential candidates --
except for Ron Paul -- have a track record of voting for higher
levels of  government spending ,” Carla Howell, executive
director of the Libertarian Party, said in a statement. “Should
one of the non-Paul candidates prevail, then the Libertarian
Party will be our only means to restore fiscal sanity.”  After participating in the Republican campaign’s opening
debate on May 5 in Greenville,  South Carolina , Johnson hasn’t
been part of most of the face-offs since then. In an e-mail to
supporters, Johnson complained about the exclusion.  “Frankly, I have been deeply disappointed by the treatment
I received in the Republican nomination process,” he said.  He was booed by the audience during the first debate when,
in line with his libertarian philosophy, he said he supports
abortion rights. “I support a woman’s right to
choose up until viability of the fetus,” he said, adding that
he opposes public money being used to pay for abortions.  Johnson didn’t place in a Dec. 16-18 CNN poll or a Dec. 15-
18 Washington Post-ABC News survey of the Republican candidates.
He had raised $416,431 for his campaign through Sept. 30.  Running as a Republican, he was elected New Mexico’s
governor in 1994 and won a second term in 1998.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  