-- Geithner’s Long Game Set Up Obama Payroll-Tax Triumph: Ron Klain
-- B y   R o n   K l a i n
-- 2011-12-28T00:02:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/geithner-s-long-game-set-up-obama-payroll-tax-win-commentary-by-ron-klain.html
Progressives have a spring in their
step this holiday season after the debacle suffered by House
Republicans in the debate over the payroll tax.  Many liberals will be surprised to learn that a good deal
of the credit belongs to one of their least-favorite members of
the president’s economic team: Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , whose economic and strategic counsel set the trap that
the House hardliners fell into.  President  Barack Obama  won the battle by pressing his pro-
middle-class message, working wisely with Senate Republicans and
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  to pass a bipartisan package
extending the tax cut, and holding his ground when the House
Republican rank-and-file refused to accept that solution.  But what made victory possible -- the scenario that the
president and his team so skillfully managed -- was a strategic
choice made by Obama and Vice President  Joe Biden  in December
2010, based on a recommendation from the Treasury secretary and
his then-counselor (now director of the White House National
Economic Council)  Gene Sperling . It is the Geithner-Sperling
advice that deserves special recognition today.  A year ago, the White House was facing a tricky situation.
The Bush-era tax cuts were about to expire, including breaks for
middle-class families (which the White House wanted to extend)
and those for  upper-bracket taxpayers  (which the president
wanted to end). Republicans were pressing hard to keep the high-
end cuts in place; the president resisted.  Bush-Era Cuts  Democrats lacked the votes to extend only the breaks for
the middle class without also extending the relief to the upper
incomes. Ending all the tax cuts risked causing economic
upheaval at a delicate time in the recovery.  So the administration negotiated with congressional
Republicans, agreeing to extend all the Bush-era breaks for two
years, in exchange for the extension of a number of other
expiring provisions that helped lower- and middle-income
families.  As the deal took shape, the White House pressed for more
than $2 in tax relief for the poorest for each $1 provided to
those on the high end. Tax credits for college tuition and child
care were included in the package to help hard-working families.
But the largest win for the president was going to be a two-year
extension of the Making Work Pay credit worth more than $100
billion. This targeted measure that Obama had campaigned on in
2008, and won passage of in the Recovery Act in early 2009, was
good policy, progressive and efficient. It gave a  tax cut  of
$400 to $800 for individuals with an income below $75,000 and
couples earning as much as $150,000. Yet very few Americans knew
they were getting it or understood how it benefited them.  It was at this point that Geithner and Sperling put forward
an alternative: The president could sacrifice the extension of
his own Making Work Pay provision and instead propose a measure
that had previously enjoyed bipartisan support: a 2 percent cut
in the payroll tax.  This plan offered some advantages:  First, while more than 80 million families had been
benefiting from Making Work Pay for two years, the fact that
almost no one knew about it limited its effectiveness as an
economic boost and meant there was little public support for its
extension. A 2 percent  payroll tax cut , by contrast, would be
understandable, visible and more likely to resonate with
taxpayers. It would be strong medicine, economically and
politically.  Second, while it would take two years to inject more than
$100 billion into the economy via Making Work Pay, a 2 percent
 payroll tax  cut would put that much money in people’s hands in
just one year. That offered a quicker jolt to the economy, and a
more substantial one over a given time period than Making Work
Pay, thus achieving important economic policy goals for the
administration.  Making Work Pay  But this advantage also posed a risk: A two-year extension
of Making Work Pay, costing more than $100 billion, would have
kept some relief flowing into  families’ pocketbooks  all the way
through 2012, but the one-year payroll tax cut, costing the same
amount, would be used up on Dec. 31, 2011. Ending relief to
working families then would have been dangerous, both
economically and politically, for the administration.  But what Geithner foresaw in December 2010 was exactly the
dynamic that has played out over the past few weeks. He and
Sperling suggested that when the payroll tax cut expired,
reluctant congressional Republicans would be under pressure to
extend it. Geithner argued that if the administration and its
allies rallied effectively for an extension, the result would
ultimately be that the one-year tax cut would become a two-year
one.  If this could be achieved, the administration would put
twice as much money into the hands of working families as the
two-year extension of Making Work Pay, and the money would be
injected into the economy twice as quickly, providing an added
boost to economic growth.  The president and vice president took Geithner’s advice and
put the payroll tax cut into the package enacted in December
2010. And, just as Geithner predicted, in December 2011, when
that one-year measure was set to expire, House Republicans found
it was untenable to refuse to extend it.  The result: more help for more working families (and our
economy) -- and a political fiasco for House Republicans when
they tried to get in the way.  Consequently, jubilant congressional Democrats and
progressive activists owe a tip of the hat to Geithner, for whom
they have little love. Perhaps the Treasury secretary’s central
role in this victory -- and in outfoxing Tea Party Republicans -
- will cause his critics to reconsider their view of him, or at
least give him a fresh look.  ( Ron Klain , a former chief of staff to Vice President Joe Biden and a senior adviser to President Barack Obama on the
Recovery Act, is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is a senior
executive with a private investment firm. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ron Klain at  rklain@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 