-- General Atlantic, Sequoia Invest $108 Million in Mu Sigma
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2011-12-28T20:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/general-atlantic-sequoia-invest-108-million-in-mu-sigma-1-.html
Mu Sigma, a company that helps
businesses make decisions by analyzing data, attracted a $108
million investment, the largest round of private-equity
financing in the analytic-services industry.  The funding was led by General Atlantic LLC and followed a
$25 million round in April, Northbrook, Illinois-based Mu Sigma
said today in a  statement .  Sequoia Capital  led the earlier
investment and participated in the new round, raising its stake
in Mu Sigma, according to the statement.  Mu Sigma will use the capital to add 600 to 700 employees
to its 1,500 within the next year, said Dhiraj Rajaram, chairman
and chief executive officer of Mu Sigma.  “The whole area of big data and data analytics and
support, we think, is very large and will continue to grow,”
Pat Hedley, a managing director at General Atlantic, based in
Greenwich,  Connecticut , said in an interview. ``Mu Sigma has a
great client base and a strong management team.”  The deal is the largest investment on record by a private-
equity or venture-capital firm in the data-processing and
enterprise-software services industries, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The second-largest is Penta Capital LLC’s
$94 million investment earlier this year in Six Degrees
Technology Group Ltd., a company that specializes in cloud
computing.  Board Seat  William Ford , General Atlantic’s CEO, will join the Mu
Sigma board.  Mu Sigma’s revenue will increase 35 percent to 40 percent
in 2012 and profit will “dip slightly” as the company
increases investments in a training program, marketing and
services for clients such as Microsoft Corp. and  Dell Inc. (DELL) ,
Rajaram said. The money raised will also be used for hiring and
to buy out early investors, he said.  Mu Sigma helps clients analyze larger sets of data than
software tools ordinarily are capable of handling. The amount of
data in the world is doubling every two years, according to EMC
Corp.  “It’s a big problem that we’re trying to solve,” Rajaram
said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  