-- Germany Seeks Clarification After Greens Syria Activist Beaten in Berlin
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2011-12-28T13:41:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/germany-seeks-clarification-after-greens-syria-activist-beaten.html
The German  Foreign Ministry  called
on investigators to clear up the alleged beating of a Syrian
opposition figure and Greens party member in Berlin this week
after the party said it was probably the work of Syrian agents.  German officials have been in contact with Ferhad Ahma, a
Green politician in Berlin’s Mitte district, ministry spokesman
Martin Schaefer told reporters today in Berlin. Ahma, 37, said
he was beaten at his apartment early on Dec. 26 by two men
posing as police officers,  police say . Local Greens officials
 have accused  the Syrian government of trying to intimidate Ahma.  “We have great interest in a speedy and thorough
clarification of this incident,” Schaefer said. While he
stopped short of making any accusations, Schaefer said that
“any kind of attempts at intimidation of opposition activists
or figures will not be tolerated by the German government.”  The ministry plans to have a “discussion” with the Syrian
ambassador today, six days after formally summoning the envoy to
protest government violence against protesters as part of unrest
in  Syria  that the  United Nations  says has killed 5,000 this
year.  The case has been transferred to a special investigative
unit that probes possible politically motivated crimes, police
spokesman Martin Otter said. Ahma told police that two men with
clubs appeared at his apartment in Berlin’s Wedding district at
2 a.m. on Dec. 26 and began beating him after he opened the
door, police said in a statement yesterday. Ahma suffered minor
wounds and didn’t seek medical treatment.  ‘Arab Appearance’  Previous threats against Ahma because of his political
activities and the “Arab appearance” of the two men suggest
that the beating was carried out by Syrian agents, the  Green
Party  said in a statement on its local  website .  “The Syrian regime is showing that it will even target
democracy and progress abroad,” Greens council members Jutta
Schauer-Oldenburg and Andrea Fischer said in the statement. Ahma
is a Greens member of the district’s council.  Calls to the Syrian embassy in Berlin were diverted to an
answering machine stating that the call took place outside of
opening hours. The embassy’s  website  contains an Oct. 6
statement rejecting allegations that Syrian diplomats were
involved in acts of intimidation, such as filming and
photographing anti-regime protesters.  “Syrian diplomats and other employees of the embassy are
strictly to observe the regulations of guest countries and
international law,” the embassy said in the October statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  