-- Giants-Cowboys Tickets Selling for $2,500 to Match NFL Postseason Prices
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2011-12-29T05:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/giants-cowboys-tickets-selling-for-2-500-to-match-nfl-postseason-prices.html
The New York Giants-Dallas Cowboys
showdown this weekend in  New Jersey  offers a postseason spot to
the winner and is pushing ticket prices to the regular-season
finale up more than 56 percent to an average of $481.  The most paid so far is $2,500 for a field-level spot
behind the Giants’ bench, and ticket resellers said yesterday
that prices are matching those usually attached to postseason
games.  The New Year’s Day matchup is essentially a playoff game,
with the  National Football Conference ’s East division title and
a postseason berth on the line. The winning team moves on while
the losing team’s National Football League season is over.  That has driven some sellers to seek as much as $4,000 per
seat for the nationally televised game at MetLife Stadium in
 East Rutherford , according to  TiqIQ , an event ticket aggregator
that tracks listings from StubHub, EBay, TicketNetwork and
TicketsNow.  “If you’re a Giants season-ticket holder and you don’t
want to go to the game -- it’s a little weird, but if that is
what you want to do -- you can make quite a bit of money selling
your tickets this week,” TiqIQ spokesman Chris Matcovich said
in a telephone interview.  The cheapest ticket on the secondary market -- the so-
called get-in price -- is $215, according to TiqIQ. The average
ticket price for the Giants’ first seven home games this season
was $307.84.  Highest Prices  StubHub  has resold 7,800 tickets for the Jan. 1 matchup,
the most for a Giants game in the company’s 11-year history, and
expects to surpass 8,000, said spokeswoman Joellen Ferrer. The
highest price paid for a ticket at StubHub is $2,500 for a
Coaches Club seat in Section 113, on the 50-yard line behind the
Giants’ sideline.  “We’re seeing prices rival what we would ordinarily see
for a playoff game,” Ferrer said in a telephone interview.
“This is basically the playoff round before the wild card.”  The average resale price for the Giants-Cowboys game is
more than the current $416 average cost for a playoff ticket to
see the  Houston Texans , who qualified for the postseason for the
first time in their 10-year history.  The Giants and Cowboys enter this week’s game with 8-7
records, guaranteeing the NFC East champion will have fewer than
10 victories for the first time since the 1970 merger between
the NFL and American Football League.  “It is a big advantage playing here with our fans and
their natural hate for the Cowboys is always good,” said  Victor Cruz , a Giants wide receiver whose 1,358 yards on catches this
season has broken Amani Toomer’s team record. “The fans will be
on our side and it is good to be home.”  Home Record  The Giants’ 3-4 record as the home team is tied for the
worst among the NFL’s remaining playoff contenders.  Dallas  is 3-
4 in road games this season.  The Giants seek to return to the postseason for the first
time since the 2008 season, while the Cowboys aim to avoid
missing the playoffs for a second straight year. Both clubs are
targeting their 31st postseason appearance and are tied for the
most in league history.  Although the Cowboys hold a 56-41-2 advantage in the
series, the Giants have won four of their past five meetings.
The Giants scored two touchdowns in the final 3 minutes, 21
seconds to win this season’s first matchup, 37-34, on Dec. 11 in
Dallas. The game featured eight lead changes, the most in the
NFL over the last two seasons, and  Jason Pierre-Paul  blocked a
47-yard field goal attempt by the Cowboys with one second left.  “This is a long and storied rivalry, no doubt about it,”
Giants coach  Tom Coughlin  told reporters this week. “The one a
couple weeks ago was an outstanding game and an example of that.
We prepare for that type of high-intensity, high-level
performance on both sides.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  