-- Romney Sets Sights on Iowa With Stealth Campaign
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2011-12-29T13:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/gingrich-loses-support-in-pre-caucus-poll-of-republicans-that-romney-leads.html
Mitt Romney barnstormed across  Iowa 
yesterday, packing rooms with enthusiastic backers of his
Republican presidential bid amid signs of his strength in a
state he had been reluctant to aggressively contest.  With a poll showing Romney leading his party’s pack in
Iowa, officials of his campaign see an opening for a victory in
the Jan. 3 caucuses that could allow him to quickly clinch the
nomination.  After almost a year of waging a largely stealth campaign in
the state, they have expanded their efforts as the caucuses
approach. A skeletal staff has been bolstered with fresh
recruits dispatched from headquarters in  Boston . Romney and his
aides are blitzing  Iowa (USUSIA)  with campaign events and advertising in
an aggressive effort to increase his chances of a strong finish.  As he kicked off a three-day bus tour across the eastern
part of the state yesterday, Romney fed off the positive
reception from crowds at his events.  “What an audience! What a crowd!” Romney told several
hundred voters gathered at a plastics factory in North Liberty.
“This is amazing. The enthusiasm, the energy. This is
fabulous.”  Earlier in the day, Romney shied away from making
predictions, though he sounded upbeat about his prospects in
comments to reporters in Clinton, Iowa.  ‘Feel Pretty Good’  “I can’t possibly allow myself to think in such optimistic
terms,” he said of his chances of wrapping up the Republican
race in its early stages. “I can tell you, if the people here
in Clinton are any example, or any indication, of what’s going
to happen in the process, I feel pretty good.”  Supporters of the former Massachusetts governor say a
caucus win in Iowa followed by victory in the Jan. 10 primary in
 New Hampshire , where Romney has held a commanding lead in polls,
would make it difficult for another candidate to gain the
momentum to derail him.  “If you’ve lost to Mitt in Iowa and you’ve lost to Mitt in
New Hampshire, what’s your case in  South Carolina , what’s your
case in  Michigan , what’s your case in  Florida ?” asked U.S.
Representative Aaron Schock, a Romney supporter, referring to
the primaries that follow the New Hampshire vote. Schock, of
 Illinois , spent the day campaigning with Romney.  The intensified campaign aims to amplify Romney’s closing
argument to Iowa voters that he’s the most electable Republican
against President  Barack Obama .  Poll Results  That message seems to be resonating: A CNN/Time/ORC
International  poll  on the Republican race released yesterday
showed Romney ahead in Iowa, with 25 percent. He was followed by
U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  with 22 percent and former
Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania  with 16 percent.  Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , after weathering
televised attacks from opponents within his party, lost
significant support in the poll of likely caucus-goers, falling
to 14 percent in the survey that was conducted Dec. 21-27 and
has an margin of error of plus or minus 4.5 percentage points.  A month ago, Gingrich had 33 percent support in a similar
poll, topping Romney’s 20 percent. Santorum has surged from 5
percent in that Nov. 29-Dec. 6 poll.  R.C. Hammond, Gingrich’s campaign spokesman, interpreted
the poll as a sign that Romney -- who in his failed 2008
nomination bid showered attention on Iowa -- still has a problem
attracting majority support.  The survey “shows that  Mitt Romney  has a ceiling and he
spends $13 million since 2007 in the state of Iowa and he can’t
break it,” Hammond said.  Paul Event  Other recent Iowa polls have shown Paul in the lead. He
drew about 120 people to a midday event at the Iowa Speedway in
Newton -- his first appearance in Iowa since leaving the
campaign trail in observance of Christmas.  “It does look like there are more cameras than there used
to be,” Paul said, noting a large media contingent. “All of a
sudden people are tired of the wars. They’re tired of this
economy. They’re tired of the  Federal Reserve . They’re tired of
Congress spending a lot of money. And they are looking for some
change.”  Santorum, who has made a point of visiting all of Iowa’s 99
counties, said his fundraising has picked up in recent days,
along with his support. “We’ve always felt like we could trust
the people of Iowa,” he said in an interview on CNN.  Chocolate Factory  Gingrich sought to regain ground as he campaigned in
northern Iowa.  He made light of Romney’s comment on Dec. 27 that compared
the failure of Gingrich’s campaign to qualify for the Virginia
primary ballot with the episode of the 1950s television program
“I Love Lucy” depicting comedienne Lucille Ball’s inept
handing of chocolates on an assembly line.  “I just have to say, here I am in the chocolate factory,”
Gingrich said during a stop at a chocolate shop in Algona, Iowa.
“And now that I had the courage to come to the chocolate
factory, I hope Governor Romney will have the courage to debate
me one-on-one.”  Gingrich repeatedly has sought such a forum with Romney. In
a CNN interview yesterday, Romney said: “If he and I end up
being the two finalists, we’ll wind up with that opportunity.”  Romney’s loss to former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee  in
the 2008 Iowa caucuses four years ago dealt a crushing political
blow to his previous presidential bid, and he and his
strategists spent much of this campaign trying to keep
expectations low in the state.  Straw Poll  They declined to compete in the Iowa Straw Poll, a
carnival-like August event viewed as an early test of candidate
strength. He skipped an annual state Republican fundraising
dinner in early November, and was absent later that month from a
forum sponsored by a coalition of Iowa groups opposed to
abortion rights and same-sex marriage -- social issues that hurt
him four years ago.  Yet quietly, Romney’s campaign focused on maintaining its
network of state volunteers and getting organized. Now, with
Gingrich sagging in the polls and the evangelical voters who
backed Huckabee splintered, Romney and his aides see an
opportunity to strike.  Several high-profile Romney backers, including New Jersey
Governor  Chris Christie  and Senator  John Thune  of  South Dakota ,
plan to travel to Iowa to help make Romney’s case to voters. The
campaign is also airing a new television ad promoting his record
as a “conservative businessman,” as an outside group staffed
by former Romney aides pays for spots attacking his rivals.  Caucus Night  The Romney campaign released a second ad today that
features sound bites from his June 2 announcement speech in New
Hampshire. The candidate will spend caucus night in the state, a
sign that his campaign feels increasingly optimistic about his
chances.  Crowds of voters waited for Romney at every stop of his bus
tour yesterday. In Muscatine, hundreds of voters had gathered
before sunrise for an early-morning stop at a coffee shop. So
many people showed up at a deli in Clinton that aides expanded
the event to an Italian restaurant across the street.  “What a crowd, what a welcome,” Romney told the audience
crowded into the restaurant. “This response comes as a bit of a
surprise.”  The barrage of political ads on Iowa televisions includes a
spot financed by an independent group calling itself “Sarah Palin’s Iowa Earthquake” that urges Republicans to back the
former Alaska governor at the caucuses. The ad says it isn’t
authorized by Palin, the 2008 Republican vice presidential
nominee, who announced in October she wouldn’t seek the White
House, or her political action committee.  Huntsman’s Town Hall  The one Republican contender who isn’t competing in Iowa,
former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr., held a town hall meeting
in Pelham, New Hampshire, last night -- his 129th public event
in the state, he told a crowd of about 100 people.  Asked by reporters if he remained confident in his decision
to focus on the first primary state, he said: “It’s our
strategy. I may as well own it.” He added: “A day or two after
Iowa, their results will be meaningless for the most part, and
everybody will then look here to New Hampshire.”  A CNN/Time/ORC International poll released yesterday of
registered New Hampshire voters likely to vote in the Republican
contest showed Romney with 44 percent, followed by Paul with 17
percent, Gingrich with 16 percent and Huntsman with 9 percent.
The survey’s margin of error was plus or minus four percentage
points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in North Liberty, Iowa, at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
John McCormick in Newton, Iowa, at  
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  