-- Global Airline Accidents, Fatalities on Pace for Record Low
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2011-12-28T20:18:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/global-airline-accidents-deaths-on-pace-for-record-low-year.html
The global airline-accident rate is
on pace this year to reach the lowest recorded, according to a
trade group.  This year’s rate of accidents serious enough to destroy an
airplane was, through November, 52 percent lower than the
average for the previous five full years, according to
statistics compiled by the  International Air Transport
Association .  The 2011 rate of 0.34 accidents per million flights is the
lowest since World War II, when the modern  airline industry 
began, Perry Flint, IATA’s Washington-based spokesman, said in
an interview. It is 68 percent less than the 1.05 rate in 2001.  “This is a long-term trend,” Flint said. “2011 is not
some kind of anomaly.”  The number of deaths in airline accidents globally are at
the lowest levels since 2006, the first year for which IATA
reported data in that category on its website. Through November,
486 people had died in air crashes, compared with the previous
low of 502 in 2008.  IATA represents airlines including  Aer Lingus (AERL)  in Ireland,
 Air France (AF)  and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)   One year of data should be approached with caution because
trends in aviation safety take many years to develop, Kevin
Darcy, a director of RTI Forensics in  San Francisco  and former
chief accident investigator for  Boeing Co. (BA) , said in an
interview. RTI performs engineering consulting on aviation and
marine accidents.  Still, technological improvements in the manufacture of
aircraft and safety devices introduced during the past two
decades have almost eliminated some types of accidents, Darcy
said.  Africa Safer  Cockpit databases that track a plane’s location and warn
pilots when they get too close to mountaintops or other
obstructions have made rare what were once causes of many
accidents, Darcy said.  Other safety systems have helped reduce mid-air collisions
and wind-shear crashes, he said.  Africa remains the most dangerous region to fly, according
to the IATA data. There were 3.93 serious accidents per million
flights through November. That level was 29 percent less than
the average for the previous five years.  Latin America  was the second-most dangerous with 1.43
accidents per million flights, IATA said.  Europe  and North Asia had no serious accidents this year,
according to IATA.  Not Counted  There’s been one serious accident in about 10 million
flights in  North America , according to the group’s data. That
crash of a First Air chartered Boeing 737-200 in Resolute,
 Canada , killed 12 people on Aug. 20, according to
AviationSafetyNetwork, a website that reports accidents. First
Air is owned by 9,000 Inuit of northern  Quebec .  IATA’s data tracks crashes involving scheduled and
nonscheduled carriers on Western-built aircraft. The year-end
numbers won’t include today’s accident in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan,
in which a Soviet-made Tupolev Tu-134 crashed while trying to
land. At least seven people were injured after the plane broke
apart and caught fire, according to AviationSafetyNetwork,
citing local news reports.  Fuselage Tear  The IATA definition of a serious accident also doesn’t
include some incidents that aviation investigators consider
dangerous. For example, a  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)   Boeing 737  that
lost a five-foot section of fuselage skin April 1 over  Arizona 
isn’t included because the damage wasn’t sufficient to destroy
the jet.  The U.S. National Transportation Safety Board considered
the incident serious enough to hold a public hearing earlier
this year. The tear was traced to a manufacturing error, the
NTSB has said.  The most common type of serious accident occurs when an
airplane goes off a runway during takeoff or landing, according
to a Dec. 7 presentation by Gunther Matschnigg, IATA’s senior
vice president for safety, operations and infrastructure.  Those accidents accounted for 23 percent of serious
crashes, Matschnigg said.  “IATA understands that there is still a lot of work that
needs to be done in this area,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  