-- Gol Plunges to 10-Week Low as Brazil Plans New Airport Rules
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2011-12-28T17:54:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/gol-plunges-to-10-week-low-as-brazil-plans-new-airport-rules.html
Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA ,
 Brazil ’s second largest airline by market share, plunged to a
10-week low on concern proposed new rules for rights for take-
off and landing at the country’s airports will erode profits.  Gol  fell  5 percent to 12.09 reais at 3:03 p.m. in  Sao
Paulo , the lowest intraday level since Oct. 18.  Tam SA , Brazil’s
largest airline by market share, slipped 1.3 percent to 36.04
reais. The benchmark Bovespa index dropped 2 percent.  Brazil’s civil aviation authority, known as Anac, wants to
alter by the second half of 2012 how take-off and landing rights
are distributed among airlines to stimulate competition and
lower ticket prices, Marcelo Guaranys, the agency’s president,
said yesterday in an interview in Brasilia. The idea is to
encourage new airlines to fly there and get airlines already
there to improve  service , he said.  “Gol will be more affected in the short term because it
has been operating with lower margins than Tam,” Banco do
Brasil analyst Leonardo Nitta said by phone from Sao Paulo
today. “Gol has been more affected by competition this year, so
when you talk about further competition and further drops in
prices, the risks related to the company also increase.”  Together, Tam and Gol had 77 percent of Brazil’s domestic
airline market share in October, according the most recent data
from Anac.  David Neeleman ’s Azul Linhas Aereas Brasileiras and
Trip Linhas Aereas are the country’s third and fourth largest
airlines and have few flights at the busiest airports, Guaranys
said.  Improved infrastructure, such as more runways and
terminals, could increase the number of flights and reduce fares
starting in 2013, Guaranys said.  “There’s always the possibility of someone entering the
market and driving down prices,” he said.  From January through August this year, airfare prices fell
18 percent from the same period in 2010, according to Anac’s 
website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net 
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net 
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  