-- Good Times on Iowa Farms Make Economy Less of Caucus Concern
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2011-12-28T05:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/good-times-on-iowa-farms-make-economy-less-of-caucus-concern.html
It’s hard not to feel the rhythm of
a different era when Gordon Wassenaar and Dean Taylor meet for
lunch at  Goldie’s Ice Cream Shoppe  LLC in Prairie City,  Iowa , 20
miles east of Des Moines.  A restored 1950 Ford with painted-on flames sits in the
parking lot of the diner and ice cream stand, across the street
from a co-op grain elevator. In 2009, the Iowa Pork Producers
Association gave Goldie’s its annual award for the state’s best
breaded pork tenderloin sandwich. And talk among the
restaurant’s regulars focuses on a topic that in much of the
U.S. sounds like the distant past: prosperity.  “You’ve got people buying new machinery, new pickups and
cars,” said Wassenaar, 75, who raises corn and soybeans. “You
don’t hear the doom and gloom in the rural areas.”  That separates these Iowans from voters elsewhere, who rate
the  U.S. economy  as a top concern in opinion polls. For rural
Iowans, boosting ethanol production and promoting free trade
loom as the prime issues, according to farmers, state officials
and analysts.  In the state’s Jan. 3 Republican presidential nominating
caucuses, such concerns should help former U.S. House Speaker
 Newt Gingrich , whose consulting firm earned $575,000 between
2009 and this year for advising an ethanol industry lobbying
group, and harm Texas Governor  Rick Perry , who proposes ending
all federal energy subsidies, including those for biofuels.  99 Counties  Rick Santorum  may benefit from the time he has spent in
rural Iowa; the former U.S. senator from  Pennsylvania  has made a
point of visiting all the state’s 99 counties.  Mitt Romney , who
today begins a bus tour of Iowa, may be hurt by not having
focused on the state until recently; Taylor terms the former
Massachusetts governor “a little hard to pin down.”  Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas also opposes federal aid
to the ethanol industry yet enjoys a solid core of support in
Iowa based on his calls to significantly shrink the federal
government and expand personal liberties. During a Bloomberg
News reporter’s five-hour drive along rural roads only two yard
signs for a candidate were spotted, both for Paul.  “People may not like some of his positions, but they
admire his consistency,” Iowa Governor Terry Branstad, a
Republican, said of Paul.  Attacking Obama  The leading Republican candidates have spotlighted the
overall U.S. economy as President Barack Obama’s main failing in
office, and they generally hammer away at that theme in their
Iowa appearances.  Gingrich told a Rotary Club audience in Dubuque, Iowa,
yesterday that Obama is an “anti-job creator.” Romney in a
speech in Davenport, Iowa, yesterday described a nation beset by
economic anxieties and decried what he called “the Great Obama
Recession.”  Across the nation, though,  farm profits  are at a record and
agribusinesses are thriving. Shares for Terra Nitrogen, a
Deerfield, Illinois-based fertilizer-maker, are up 49 percent
this year.  Iowa has seen record incomes as the nation’s top producer
of corn, soybeans, pork and ethanol. Its state and municipal
bonds had a total return of 11.7 percent through yesterday,
trailing only  Wyoming ,  Illinois ,  California  and  Montana ,
according to  Barclays Capital . Unemployment is  5.7 percent ,
compared to 8.6 percent nationwide.  One in six  Iowa jobs are tied to agriculture, according to
a 2009 study by Iowa State University economist Dan Otto.
Minneapolis-based Cargill Inc. in March took over a flagging
ethanol plant in Fort Dodge, Iowa. Pioneer Hi-Bred, the seed
division for DuPont Co., is headquartered in Johnston, Iowa.  Acreage Prices  Land prices at an average of  $5,600 an acre  in Iowa are
more than triple what they were a decade ago. Pork, crop and
ethanol producers are prospering in part because of exports.
U.S. shipments of pig meat were  up 22  percent this year through
October, while one of every four rows of soybeans is sent
straight to  China .  Jim Dougherty, who grows corn and soybeans near Lake City,
Iowa, about 75 miles northwest of  Des Moines , just bought a John
Deere combine for the 520-acre family farm, founded in 1909. The
combine retails for $165,000. Dougherty bought it in part to
keep his taxes down.  “It’s not unusual to see farmers put 50 percent down or
write a check to cover the cost,” he said.  Undecided Voters  Dougherty, 74, remains undecided about whom to support,
like many Iowans. He and other family members are “still trying
to make up our minds,” said his daughter, Darcy Maulsby, 38.  “We don’t look to politicians to have all the answers,”
Maulsby said. “We just want the government to get out of the
way.”  Polls  have also shown that a majority of likely caucus-
goers are open to switching from whichever candidate they
currently back.  In a time of ample credit and attractive returns on land
and crops in Iowa, bankers -- often a source of frustration for
farmers -- are seen as partners in prosperity. Taylor, one of
the diners at Goldie’s, distinguished between investment bankers
and small-town lenders.  The collapse of  MF Global Holdings Ltd ., the Wall Street
firm that former Senator Jon S. Corzine of  New Jersey  headed, is
hurting faith in commodity trading, he said, while confidence in
community banks and the farm credit system is strong.  “I won’t do business with a bank whose name you’d
recognize,” said Taylor, 64. “If you deal with a bank that’s
out of your league, they’ll squash you like a bug and not
realize it.”  Protestors  The week before Christmas, a group called Occupy Iowa City
disrupted a restaurant meet-and-greet held by Minnesota
Representative  Michele Bachmann , another Republican presidential
candidate. The protestors chanted “Go, just go” at her.  Dave Seil, 47, of Gowrie, Iowa, responded to the
demonstration with rolled eyes.  “They just kind of shoot themselves in the foot,” said
Seil, who grows corn and soybeans along with raising a herd of
about 35 beef cattle.  In 2008, Seil backed former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee , the winner of that year’s Republican caucuses. This
time, he’ll be out of town and unable to attend.  Turnout Question  Branstad, elected governor in 2010 after previously serving
four terms in the office, said prosperity means less urgency for
rural voters to participate in the caucuses. Still, he expects a
high turnout among farmers.  “They’re not in the fields, so they have the time,” he
said. “They’re very concerned about the international
marketplace and where candidates stand on renewable fuels.
They’re very concerned about  interest rates  and the debt.”  In a voter report card prepared by the Iowa Corn Growers
Association that rated the presidential candidates on their
positions on Iowa farm issues, Gingrich received an A grade and
Santorum an A-. Romney got a B, Perry a C-, Bachmann a D+ and
Paul a D.  Obama received a B.  “Gingrich and Santorum are right up there as people who
will work with ethanol,” said Taylor, who grows corn and
soybeans. Of Perry, he said, “he’s  Texas  and oil. He’s the
anti-Iowa.”  Taylor said he’s leaning toward supporting Romney, despite
some qualms, mainly because he likes his chances of beating
Obama.  “He’s made some comments about trade and China that’s made
a lot of us Iowans nervous,” Taylor said, referring to Romney’s
call to label China a currency manipulator and put new tariffs
on its imports. “But he’s the most likely to carry the
independents in the election, and we need to win this one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  