-- Crash Probe Finds Plane Owned by Greenhill Banker Sought to Climb Amid Ice
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2011-12-28T18:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/greenhill-crash-inquiry-finds-pilot-sought-climb.html
A  Greenhill & Co. (GHL)  banker’s plane
encountered icing and the pilot sought to climb to a higher
altitude shortly before the aircraft crashed, killing all five
people on board, U.S.  investigators  said.  The plane, owned by Jeffrey F. Buckalew, was cleared by air
traffic controllers to ascend to 20,000 feet (6,100 meters), the
 National Transportation Safety Board  said in a report today. The
pilot reported being in icing conditions at 17,000 feet and
reached 17,900 before starting to descend, the NTSB said.  Ice can be deadly because it robs planes of the lift needed
to stay airborne, said Bill Waldock, professor of safety science
at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Prescott,  Arizona .
The 15-minute duration of the Dec. 20 flight over  New Jersey 
suggests “some severe and extreme icing,” he said.  “The actual severity of the icing will be a question,”
Waldock said in an interview today. “In severe to extreme
icing, the ice builds up so fast the deicing equipment can’t get
rid of it.”  Investigators don’t know whether the deicing system on
Buckalew’s single-engine Socata TBM 700 turboprop was activated
before the crash, the NTSB said in a Dec. 21 briefing.  Avoiding Icing  An operations manual for the TBM 700 advises pilots who fly
into such hazards to “immediately request priority handling
from air traffic control to exit the severe icing conditions in
order to avoid extended exposure to flight conditions more
severe than those for which the aircraft has been certified.”  Greenhill has said Buckalew, 45, was an experienced pilot.
The NTSB hasn’t identified who was at the controls beyond saying
that the pilot had 1,400 flight hours as of his last medical
certificate application in July.  Buckalew, his wife, Corinne; their two children, Jackson,
11, and Meriwether, 6; and Greenhill banker Rakesh Chawla died
when the plane plunged into a highway median about a mile from
Morristown, New Jersey, after taking off from nearby  Teterboro 
en route to Atlanta. Today’s preliminary NTSB report gave the
facts of the crash without speculating on the cause.  Part of the plane’s right wing and tail were found about a
quarter-mile southwest of the fuselage, the safety board said.
That may indicate the pilot was able to re-exert some control
before the TBM 700 hit the ground, Waldock said.  “The way he impacted indicates he may have regained some
partial control, but apparently overstressed the airplane and
tore the wing off in the process,” he said.  Annual Inspection  The last annual inspection for the TBM 700 was in July,
according to the safety board. Manufactured in 2005, it had
logged 724.6 hours of flight time as of Nov. 18, the NTSB said.  Buckalew and Chawla, 36, were managing directors at
Greenhill, a New York-based investment banking firm that
provides financial advice on mergers, acquisitions and
restructurings.  Buckalew joined Greenhill in 1996 as one of its first
associates and worked his way up the ranks in mergers and
acquisitions in a variety of industries. He advised clients
including VF Corp.,  Roche Holding AG , Emerson Electric Co. and
Delta Air Lines Inc.  Chawla came to Greenhill in 2003 after working at the
Blackstone Group. A financial-services specialist, he was
involved in Greenhill’s work for the  U.S. Treasury  in managing
its investment in American International Group Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  