-- Michigan Borrows Record $3.3 Billion in Debt to Repay Unemployment Costs
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2011-12-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/michigan-s-sells-record-3-3-billion-in-debt-to-repay-unemployment-costs.html
Michigan , whose  joblessness  led the
nation during 2006-09, will issue $3.3 billion of variable-rate
bonds -- its largest-ever sale, according to treasury officials
-- to repay federal unemployment-benefit loans.  The two-year bonds underwritten by a unit of  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
were selling at a yield of 0.24 percent, said Tom Saxton, deputy
state treasurer. That compares with estimated 3 percent interest
on federal loans next year, Saxton said. Repaying the U.S.
government by Dec. 31 will save as much as $100 million in
interest and avoid federal penalties, he said.  “This is a good deal for the employer community,” he
said.  The sale through the  Michigan Finance Authority  closes
today. The state joins  Texas  and Idaho in tapping debt markets
to repay unemployment loans after the 18-month recession that
ended in June 2009.  Michigan ’s 9.8 percent jobless rate in
November marked the first time in two years it’s been below 10
percent. The  national rate  for November was 8.6 percent.  Twenty-seven states and the Virgin Islands owed the federal
 unemployment trust fund  a combined $39.3 billion as of Dec. 22,
according to the U.S. Department of Labor. California owes the
most, $9.7 billion, followed by  New York  and Michigan.  Michigan chose variable-rate bonds to take advantage of
historically low short-term  interest rates , Saxton said. He said
that will give the state flexibility to convert the borrowing to
long-term financing in 2012.  Two-year debt with a AAA rating yields 0.41 percent,
compared with the average 2.82 percent since 1992, according to
Bloomberg Fair Market  data .  Borrowing to Save  Michigan will levy a separate assessment on employers to
pay back the bonds. It also will set a higher tax to shore up
its unemployment fund, under legislation linked to the debt-sale
authorization. Still, businesses will pay less than if the
federal loans weren’t retired, said David Jessup, spokesman for
the  Small Business Association of Michigan.   Saxton said the bonds still await a rating. Citigroup, the
nation’s third-largest bank by assets, is providing a letter of
credit, he said.  Proceeds from the sale will repay $3.2 billion borrowed
beginning in 2006. The money also will reimburse the general
fund for $38 million used for interest on federal loans, plus
other unemployment costs, Saxton said.  Unemployment benefits paid in Michigan jumped to $1.15
billion in the first quarter of 2009 from $612 million in the
last three months of 2008, according to the bond statement. The
state paid $331.4 million in the quarter ending Sept. 30.  In August,  Idaho  borrowed $202.4 million to pay back
unemployment loans, said Bob Fick, spokesman for its Labor
Department. The sale will save $15 million, Fick said.  The bonds, which employers must repay, will eliminate a
federal surcharge next year, he said. Employers in Idaho “are
still trying to come out of the recession,” he said.  In November and December 2010, Texas borrowed about $2
billion to reimburse the federal government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  