-- Tiger Mom, Surf Bum Draw Nervous Laughs; ‘Amazing Shadows’ Film
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2011-12-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/tiger-mom-surf-bum-draw-nervous-laughs-amazing-shadows-film.html
Daniel is a foul-mouthed Australian
teenager who giggles when told his twin brother Nathan is going
deaf.  “Course I’m going to laugh when you say that,” he says,
mistaking the word “cochlea” for something dirty.  Ruth, his grandmother and a matron at a juvenile detention
facility in Sydney, fosters good cheer by yelling “Gotcha!” after
falsely announcing one young inmate’s early release.  Offbeat humor runs in the family on “ Angry Boys ,”  HBO ’s
winning comedy series from  Australia ’s one-man acting troupe
Chris Lilley.  Lilley, known to American audiences for 2008’s “ Summer
Heights High ” on HBO, portrays six characters: In addition to
Ruth, Daniel and Nathan (who expresses himself mostly with middle
fingers), the roster includes a Japanese tiger mom, a black
American rapper and an aging Australian surf bum.  Through a dozen half-hour, mockumentary-style episodes,
“Angry Boys” spins five interconnected, continent-hopping story
lines.  In the fictional no-there-there town of Dunt, Australia, 17-
year-old Daniel plans a going-away party for Nathan, who’s being
sent off to a special school.  “He’s deaf, and maybe a little bit retarded,” says Daniel,
his endless taunting masking deeper feelings.  Dolphin Attack  The brothers naively invite a roster of their idols to the
party, and “Angry Boys” tells all of their stories: S.mouse, a
talentless 24-year-old hip-hop star whose streetwise persona
covers up a privileged upbringing and teenage obsession with the
musical “Wicked”; Blake, a 38-year-old ex-surfing champ who
retired to oblivion after a rare dolphin attack; and Tim, a 13-
year-old Japanese skateboard wiz falsely marketed by his
publicity-seeking mother as the sport’s first gay superstar.  All but Tim are portrayed by Lilley (who plays the
skateboarder’s psychotically pushy mom), and all accrue a
startling depth as their tales unfold.  Much more than he did with “Summer Heights High,” Lilley
takes a risky approach to these stories, and viewers would be
well-advised to hang tough through the homophobic slurs, racist
epithets and crude jokes. Some of the characterizations push the
edge of offense -- Lilley substitutes L’s for R’s as Jen, the
Japanese Mommie Dearest, and gives his black characters names
like Schwayne and Lasqueesha.  “Angry Boys” certainly isn’t above the shock value of
political incorrectness, but its finely etched characters
insinuate themselves into our affections.  While American sitcoms like “The Office” and “Modern Family”
shoehorn feel-good sentimentality into their weekly formulas,
Lilley does something more extraordinary. His angry boys and
demanding girls grow, week by week and joke by joke, into people
you’ll miss when it’s all over.  “Angry Boys” airs Jan. 1 on HBO at 10 p.m.  New York  time.
Rating: ***1/2  ‘Amazing Shadows’  Turns out, we actually can get enough of “It’s a Wonderful
Life.”  The holiday perennial is one of many too-familiar titles
resurrected in the clip-heavy documentary “ These Amazing
Shadows .”  Airing on PBS this week, “Shadows” (directed by Paul Mariano
and Kurt Norton) documents the efforts of the National Film
Registry to restore and preserve movies and short films of
cultural and aesthetic value.  Some of the examples presented are delightfully esoteric:
The 1957 “Let’s All Go to the Lobby” theatrical bumper, and the
early talkie “Gus Visser and His Singing Duck” (which lives up to
its title).  Nuclear Blast  But too many of the 88 minutes are given to obvious, no-
brainer choices like “The Wizard of Oz,” “ Star Wars ,” “To Kill a
Mockingbird” and “Casablanca.” Fine movies all, but I wanted more
oddities like “The House in the Middle,” a 1954 short funded by
the paint industry that claimed a fresh whitewash is fine
protection from a nuclear blast.  “These Amazing Shadows” airs Dec. 29 at 10 p.m. New York
time. Rating: **1/2  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 