-- Tax Cap Hits New Jersey’s Richest
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2011-12-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/millburn-ends-on-call-trash-pickup-as-tax-cap-crimps-new-jersey-s-richest.html
The days of on-demand trash pickup
are dwindling for residents of  Millburn , the northern  New Jersey 
community best known for The Mall at  Short Hills , where Cartier
diamonds meet Dior fashions.  Homeowners in the town of 18,700 people 20 miles (32
kilometers) west of Manhattan have only a few more days to
summon a public-works truck for no charge to collect whatever
they neglected to set out on garbage day. On Jan. 1, a cheaper
private hauler will replace municipal employees collecting trash
in the township, whose median household income of $170,000 a
year is more than triple the national average.  “You would call, and they would come, and that’s not going
to happen,” Mayor Sandy Haimoff, 73, said in a telephone
interview. “People will realize they have to get the garbage
out the night before.”  Even as poorer cities such as Camden and Newark struggle
with reduced state aid that has made them shrink police forces,
some of the wealthiest towns in the second-richest U.S. state
are also rethinking expenses that once seemed routine as they
cope with Governor  Chris Christie ’s 2 percent cap on annual
property-tax growth. The governor, a 49-year-old first-term
Republican, cut aid to towns last year as he limited annual
increases in local taxes, forcing mayors to weigh worker firings
and program reductions.  ‘Outside the Parameters’  Montclair , a bedroom community of about 37,000 people 12
miles west of Manhattan, shed 10 percent of its workforce in the
past two years, said township manager Marc Dashield. This year
it cut library funding to a state minimum of $2.36 million, from
$3.13 million, and scrapped the budget for the Arts Council and
First Night, an alcohol-free New Year’s Eve celebration.  “When we made our cuts, we had to make a decision and say,
’These are the core functions of government,’ and anything
outside was open to examination,” Dashield said in a telephone
interview. “The Arts Council was a great thing for this
community. First Night was a great thing for this community. But
it was outside the parameters.”  A property-tax cap in neighboring  New York  that will take
effect Jan. 1 will have a similar impact, Moody’s Investors
Service said in a July report. Governor  Andrew Cuomo  in June
signed a law that prohibits any annual increase above 2 percent
or the rate of inflation, whichever is lower, unless 60 percent
of voters agree.  Moody’s cited that cap this month when it downgraded the
credit ratings of the village of Suffern and the city of  Long
Beach .  Medford, Long Hill  In New Jersey, Moody’s gave the Burlington County township
of Medford’s rating a negative outlook in November after the
town deferred school-tax payments. In June, the company lowered
its rating on the Morris County township of Long Hill to Aa3,
the fourth-highest investment grade, from Aa2.  The towns, commuter suburbs of Philadelphia and  New York
City , had eliminated jobs and reduced garbage collection and
other expenses. Analysts cited high debt and, in Long Hill’s
case, few prospects for revenue growth.  Almost 60 percent of U.S. municipal officers said finances
were worse in 2011 than in 2010, according to a September  survey 
by the  National League of Cities . Two in five reported that
their city cut services other than public safety and social
programs, including funding for libraries, parks and recreation.  Princeton Merger  The strains prompted New Jersey voters in November to
approve a merger of Princeton township and borough, after at
least three earlier referendums failed. Local officials estimate
the combination will save as much as $3.1 million a year.  “It’s about making choices: We can’t any longer think we
can sit around and have everything we want and pay for it,”
Christie said in a November public meeting with the Princeton
mayors after the election. “We can’t try and govern in a way
that makes everyone happy.”  New Jersey is the second-richest state in the U.S. after
 Maryland , with median household  income  of $70,378 in 2008. It
has the nation’s highest property taxes, averaging $7,576 last
year,  according  to the state Department of Community Affairs.
The levies, the main source of funding for schools and towns,
have climbed 70 percent in the past decade.  Tax Bills  In 2010, Millburn’s average $19,441 property-tax bill was
the third-highest in the state, while Montclair’s $16,413 was
12th-highest. In Princeton, the average was $15,255 in the
borough and $16,212 in the township.  In  Upper Saddle River , ranked by Bloomberg Businessweek as
the 21st-richest U.S. zip code, fifth graders are learning on
iPads bought by the school district and donors. Administrators
don’t know whether they can afford to buy the devices for all of
their students, said Angela Sacco-Torres, 50, president of the
school board and co-owner of JMT Mortgage Consulting.  The town of 8,200 in northern Bergen County has been hit by
job losses in financial services, Sacco-Torres said. While total
employment in New Jersey fell 3.5 percent from 2004 to 2009, the
state’s financial-services industry lost 6.1 percent of its jobs
in that period,  according  to the New Jersey labor department.  “Upper Saddle River was a new-money community,” Sacco-
Torres said in a Dec. 15 telephone interview. “We had a lot of
people who worked on the Street and then the economy went
southward. A lot of people in town are struggling. A lot of
people are losing their homes.”  Parks and Rec  Upper Saddle River residents in November voted not to renew
a tax for parks and recreation.  “For the next five years or so, people are going to be
very wary about any tax increase,” Sacco-Torres said.  Harding, a Morris County township about 45 miles from
 Manhattan  that has an average residential property value of
$1.26 million, merged its municipal-court services with three
other towns in 2010. This year, the council closed its public
tennis courts rather than spend $50,000 on resurfacing.  “Do we just remove it or do we repair it?” Gail McKane,
57, the township administrator, said by phone Dec. 19. “How
does the community feel?”  Millburn estimates saving $800,000 a year when the private
trash hauler takes over, and the mayor isn’t expecting gripes.
During the summer, officials ended Saturday drop-off for
recyclables, and with it overtime costs for sanitation staff.  “I must say, I have not received one complaint from the
residents,” Haimoff said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  