-- India Telecom, Olympus Audit, Liquid Crystal: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2011-12-28T13:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/india-telecom-russia-jury-trials-olympus-audit-lcd-deal-compliance.html
India ’s telecommunications
commission approved increases in available wireless spectrum,
sharing and trading of airwaves and steps to make it easier for
mobile phone companies to buy rivals.  The National Telecom Policy would increase the maximum
market share for a merged phone company to 60 percent from 40
percent, R. Chandrashekhar, Telecom Commission chairman, told
reporters in New Delhi Dec. 26. The commission, the Department
of Telecommunications’ top policy-making body, will submit its
draft to Communications Minister Kapil Sibal for review within a
week, he said.  The new regulations may lead to consolidation in a market
where competition among 15 carriers including  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) 
and local ventures of  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,  Telenor ASA (TEL)  and  NTT
DoCoMo Inc. (9437)  drove call charges to less than one penny a minute,
eroding profitability.  The proposals would allow spectrum auctions and would limit
a merged company to holding 25 percent of the available airwaves
in a region, said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , strategist at SMC
Global Securities Ltd. in New Delhi. The country has 22
telecommunications zones.  Mergers between carriers that would have a combined market
share of 35 percent or less would no longer need anti-monopoly
approval under the proposed rules. Combined companies that would
control between 35 percent and 60 percent of a zone’s wireless
phone market would require such approval, according to the
policy draft approved.  The National Telecom Policy, initially unveiled in October,
would need cabinet clearance, with some portions requiring
parliamentary approval.  Carriers need more spectrum to serve customers that reached
 626 million  in October.  The proposals may get final approval by June, according to
a Dec. 23  review  by the Department of Telecommunications.  Compliance Policy  Medvedev Says  Russia  May Consider Jury Trial for Economic Crimes  Russia may consider introducing jury trials for economic
crimes, President  Dmitry Medvedev  said at a meeting at his
residence outside Moscow yesterday.  The president received a report prepared by the Kremlin’s
human rights council on former  Yukos Oil Co.  owner Mikhail
Khodorkovsky’s second conviction.  China’s Courts to Clarify Insider Trading Rules, Xinhua Says  Chinese rules governing insider trading cases are under
review by the nation’s judiciary, the state run Xinhua News
Agency reported, citing an official with the country’s
securities and futures watchdog.  A judicial interpretation will focus on the investigation
and burden of proof in such cases, said Gui Minjie, vice
chairman of the  China Securities Regulatory Commission ,
according to Xinhua. Such rulings are binding and typically
given by the Supreme People’s Court, Xinhua said.  The ruling would come soon, it said, without elaborating.  Singh’s Graft Bill Faces Final Hurdle as Hazare Ends Fast  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is one hurdle away from
creating the anti-corruption agency that has been repeatedly
rejected by Indian lawmakers over four decades as he bids to end
a year of protests against graft.  The bill to set up the body is expected to be debated in
parliament’s upper house tomorrow, where the government faces a
tough fight with the ruling coalition 28 seats short of a
majority and needing to win the support of independents and
regional lawmakers. It passed in the lower house yesterday.  Amid concerns over his health and dwindling crowds, anti-
corruption activist  Anna Hazare , 73, ended his public fast in
Mumbai a day early. Hazare, who has dismissed the graft bill as
too weak and whose 13-day hunger strike in August roiled the
government, vowed his team would campaign against those who had
“betrayed the nation” and target Singh’s Congress party ahead
of elections in five states early next year.  “It looks like Hazare is losing support among the general
population,” said Sudha Pai, a professor at the Centre for
Political Studies at Jawaharlal Nehru University in  New Delhi .
“They have lost a lot of credibility because of the way that
they have behaved trying to hold parliament to ransom.”  The government is looking to pass the bill, known as the
Lokpal, as it seeks to cap the damage done by graft scandals
including those linked to a 2008 sale of mobile-phone airwaves
and the hosting last year of the Commonwealth Games in New
Delhi. It needs to end demonstrations on the streets and in
parliament that have stalled policy making and focus on reviving
India’s slowing $1.7 trillion economy.  If the government is defeated in the upper house it will
either have to shelve the legislation or call a rare joint
session of parliament to forge a consensus. If the bill is
passed with some changes, Singh will need to take it back to the
lower house for approval. The specially extended session of
parliament is due to end tomorrow.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Olympus Auditor ‘Still Investigating’ Gyrus Share Purchase  An Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC committee said it’s still
investigating whether the audit of  Olympus Corp. (7733) ’s accounting
was appropriate after the Japanese camera maker admitted hiding
investment losses.  Olympus’s purchase of Gyrus Group Plc has complicated links
to the company’s overall cover-up and will require more time to
probe, the panel said yesterday in a statement.  ShinNihon, which signed off on Olympus’s 2010 results,
formed the committee this month to verify an internal
investigation that earlier found nothing wrong in its audit of
the endoscope maker. Olympus, reeling from a $1.7 billion
accounting fraud, restated more than five years of past earnings
on Dec. 14, wiping out 70 percent of its net assets.  Olympus’s cover-up started “way before” ShinNihon took
over the audit, Toshifumi Takada, a panel member and economics
professor at Tohoku University in Miyagi, northern  Japan , said
in Tokyo yesterday. The panel is probing whether “it was
possible to point out issues” related to Gyrus before Olympus
admitted to the 13-year cover-up, he said.  Olympus is also investigating about 70 executives to answer
queries over losses and transactions for acquisitions, including
$687 million in payments to advisers in the purchase of Gyrus in
2008 and stake writedowns in three other takeovers. In March
2010, $620 million was paid to buy back Gyrus preferred shares
given to its advisers as part of fees.  Japan’s Financial Services Agency is looking into any role
the auditors may have played in the Olympus cover-up, Minister
 Shozaburo Jimi  said earlier this month.  Gazprom Neft Is Fined $31 Million by Russian Antitrust Watchdog  OAO Gazprom Neft (SIBN)  was fined 979 million rubles ($31 million)
in a “third wave” of cases into “monopolistically high
prices” for diesel and jet fuel at the end of 2010 and
beginning of this year, Russia’s Federal Anti-Monopoly Service
said yesterday on its website.  Courts  Sharp, Samsung Agree on $539 Million to End Antitrust Cases  Sharp Corp .,  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and five other makers
of liquid crystal display panels used in computers and
televisions agreed to pay $538.6 million to settle antitrust
claims by indirect purchasers.  Earlier this month, the panel makers agreed to pay $388
million to settle price-fixing claims by direct buyers of the
products as part of a series of cases consolidated in federal
court in  San Francisco . Under the new agreement, about $501
million will be available for partial refunds to consumers and
about $37 million to compensate governments and other public
entities for damages, according to a court filing dated Dec. 23.  The companies allegedly fixed prices of thin-film liquid
crystal display panels, driving up prices for purchasers of
televisions, notebook computers and monitors from 1999 to 2006,
according to a class action, or group, lawsuit filed in 2007.
The attorneys general of eight states, including Florida,
California and  New York , were part of the settlement agreements
with the manufacturers. Besides the $538.6 million settlement of
the antitrust claims, five of the companies also agreed to pay
more than $14 million in civil fines and penalties to New York,
according to the statement from the state’s attorney general,
 Eric Schneiderman .  Trials against companies that didn’t settle are expected to
go forward in California and Florida.  Lawyers representing Samsung and Sharp didn’t immediately
return messages seeking comment on the settlement.  The case is In Re TFT-LCD (Flat Panel) Antitrust
Litigation, 07-01827, U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of California (San Francisco).  For more, click here.  SEC-Citigroup Lawsuit Halted While Settlement Rejection Appealed  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s suit against
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  will remain on hold while a federal appeals court
considers whether to review a judge’s rejection of a $285
million settlement in the case.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan yesterday agreed to
the SEC’s request to delay the case until at least Jan. 17. The
agency is challenging U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff’s refusal
last month to approve an accord resolving claims that New York-
based Citigroup misled investors in a $1 billion financial
product linked to risky mortgages. The agency said halting the
case was necessary because Rakoff told Citigroup to respond to
the SEC’s complaint next week.  “The commission seeks a stay on an emergency basis because
the Jan. 3 deadline for Citigroup to answer creates an exigency
that threatens the commission with additional irreparable
harm,” the regulator said in court papers.  The court said the SEC’s request to stay the case in the
lower court and to expedite the appeal will be submitted to a
motions panel of the court Jan. 17. The case will be kept on
hold until the panel decides whether to grant the requests, the
court said in a two-sentence order.  In his Nov. 28 ruling, Rakoff criticized the agency’s
practice of settling without requiring the subject of the
allegations to admit wrongdoing. The Manhattan judge said the
Citigroup settlement didn’t provide him with “any proven or
admitted facts” to inform his judgment.  The SEC said it wanted to preserve agency resources by
putting the case on hold while the appeals court considers
Rakoff’s ruling.  Earlier yesterday, Rakoff issued an order denying a request
from the SEC and Citigroup that he halt the case during the
appeal.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 11-05227, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit (New York). The district court case is
11-cv-7387, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Interviews/Speeches  Liu Says Tougher Clawbacks Would Restore Confidence  New York City Comptroller John Liu talked about the need
for banks to toughen so-called clawbacks, which allow the firms
to reclaim pay awarded to employees who acted improperly.  Liu, who spoke with Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness With Margaret Brennan,” also discussed a federal
investigation into campaign fundraising practices.  For more, click here.  Cato’s Calabria Says Dodd-Frank Has Made Things Worse  Mark Calabria, director of financial-regulation studies at
the libertarian  Cato Institute  in  Washington , said the next
financial crisis “will be worse” because of Dodd-Frank
legislation. Calabria talked with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  They were joined by Josh Rosner, a banking analyst with New
York-based Graham Fisher & Co.  For the audio, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 