-- Indonesia Stocks to Gain 20% in 2012 on Debt Rating Upgrade, Manulife Says
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2011-12-28T10:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/indonesia-stocks-to-gain-20-in-2012-on-debt-rating-upgrade-manulife-says.html
Indonesia’s  stocks (JCI)  may climb 20
percent next year after posting the third-biggest gains in  Asia 
in 2011 on the prospect of credit-rating upgrades and increased
infrastructure spending, said the nation’s third-largest fund.  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service may follow
 Fitch Ratings  in upgrading the nation’s debt rating to
investment grade, said Yudhistia Susanto, the Jakarta-based head
of equity at PT Manulife Asset Management, which manages about
$3.8 billion. Susanto favors banking and cement stocks as they
will benefit from falling interest rates and higher spending on
road, port and airport projects, without naming any shares.  “Starting with Fitch and next year Moody’s and Standard &
Poor’s, the investment grade story will have a positive impact
on our cost of capital,” Susanto said in a Dec. 23 interview.
“It will provide sustainability for a low  interest-rate 
environment.”  The Jakarta Composite Index slipped 0.5 percent to 3,769.21
at the close. The measure has gained 1.8 percent this year,
adding to a 46 percent jump in 2010, after the central bank cut
its benchmark interest rate to a record low amid easing
inflation and Fitch’s upgrade on Dec. 15. The country lost that
rating in 1997 during the Asian financial crisis.  Indonesia’s benchmark measure may rise 15 percent to 20
percent from this year’s close, Susanto said. Shares on the
index are trading at 15.1 times estimated earnings, Asia’s most
expensive after  Japan , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s limited availability of quality stocks,” Susanto
said. “That’s why the valuations of quality stocks continue to
rise. In times of global uncertainties people tend to invest in
businesses that generate stable cashflow.”  Growth Outlook  Susanto said in a Sept. 26 interview with Bloomberg
Television that he recommends cement stocks.  PT Semen Gresik (SMGR)  and
 PT Indocement Tunggal Prakarsa (INTP) , the two largest producers of the
building material, have jumped 40 percent since then, compared
with a 14 percent gain for the Jakarta Composite.  Indonesia’s economy, the biggest in  Southeast Asia , is set
to expand 6.5 percent this year, the fastest pace since 1996
even as global growth slows. The central bank, which made the
forecast, said domestic consumption will help cushion slowing
exports amid a debt crisis in Europe and easing growth in  China .
The central bank cut its benchmark interest rate to a record low
of 6 percent last month and inflation in November eased for a
third month.  Fitch raised Indonesia’s long-term foreign and local
currency rating to BBB-, the lowest investment-grade level,
citing the country’s “strong and resilient economic growth.”
Indonesia’s new  credit rating  puts it on par with India.  Rating Outlook  “Although this is a big positive milestone for the
country, we believe that the rating upgrade is in the price,
both in the bond and equity markets,” Morgan Stanley said in a
Dec. 16 note. “We expect limited impact on the equity and bond
markets on the back of this rating upgrade.”  S&P may raise the credit rating if the government continues
to improve fiscal, administrative and structural reforms, the
company said Dec. 20 in an e-mailed response to questions from
Bloomberg. Indonesia’s macroeconomic resilience is “credit
positive and would support the case for an upgrade,” Christian
de Guzman, assistant vice president at Moody’s in Singapore,
said Dec. 23 in an e-mail message. The two companies may boost
 Indonesia  to investment grade in the first quarter of 2012,
Coordinating Minister for the Economy Hatta Rajasa told
reporters in Jakarta Dec. 20.  Land Bill  Indonesia’s parliament approved on Dec. 16 a land-
acquisition bill that aims to accelerate infrastructure
projects. President Yudhoyono has pledged to double spending on
roads, seaports and airports to $140 billion to help deliver
average growth of 6.6 percent over the remainder of his term
ending in 2014.  Indonesia’s 2011-2025 development plan seeks 4,012 trillion
rupiah ($442 billion) of investment, with 45 percent of that for
highways, harbors and power plants. Yudhoyono is seeking to
improve Indonesia’s roads, bridges and ports to spur annual
economic growth of as much as 9 percent.  China’s economy  grew
9.1 percent and India expanded 6.9 percent in the third quarter.  The law change means Indonesia will be able to double the
amount of infrastructure spending in the next two or three
years, Trade Minister  Gita Wirjawan  said in a Dec. 16 interview
in Geneva. Gresik, East Java-based Semen Gresik rose 8.4 percent
in the week the land-acquisition bill was passed. The company
said Dec. 13 it expects to start operating two new cement plants
next year, helping it tap into rising demand.  “At the beginning of the year, barring any negative news
from  Europe , cash allocation of global fund managers will start
to be invested again in  emerging markets ,” Susanto said.
“Among emerging markets, Indonesia’s position is quite
attractive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  