-- Minimum Wage in U.S. Fails to Beat Inflation: Chart of the Day
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2011-12-28T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/minimum-wage-in-u-s-fails-to-beat-inflation-chart-of-the-day.html
Workers in the U.S. earning the
 minimum wage  are worse off now than they were four decades ago.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that after adjusting for
inflation, the federal minimum wage dropped 20 percent from 1967
to 2010, even as the nominal figure climbed to $7.25 an hour
from $1.40, a 418 percent gain.  The decline would have been worse if not for increases that
took place from 2008 through 2010 in how much employers were
legally obligated to pay. Combined with more stable consumer
prices, those adjustments helped trim the reduction in earnings
from 41 percent at the end of 2007, following a decade of no
change in minimum pay.  “Hardship is increasing for lower-income levels, and the
minimum wage reflects those at the lower end of the payroll
spectrum,” said Ellen Zentner, a senior economist at Nomura
Securities International Inc. in  New York . “With those meager
wages in place, it makes it hard to imagine families doing with
even less.”  A jobless rate that has exceeded 8 percent since February
2009, the longest stretch of such levels of unemployment since
monthly records began in 1948, is one reason why workers have
little leeway to press for higher wages. Adding in part-time
workers who would prefer full-time jobs, and discouraged workers
who would take a job if one were available, pushes the rate up
to 15.6 percent as of November.  The loss of better-paying manufacturing jobs in the last
three decades and the growth of  service industries  may be
another reason why wages have failed to keep up with inflation,
Zentner said.  Eighteen states and the  District of Columbia  have minimum
wages above the federal level of $7.25 an hour, which is just
over $15,000 per year for a full-time worker. Eight states --
Arizona, Colorado,  Florida , Montana,  Ohio , Oregon, Vermont and
 Washington  -- will increase their minimum wage by between 28
cents and 37 cents an hour on Jan. 1, according to the National
Employment Law Project, a non-partisan, not-for-profit
organization that conducts research on unemployment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  