-- Investec Loyal Faces Protest After Winning Closest Sydney-Hobart Since ’82
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2011-12-28T13:05:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/investec-loyal-beats-wild-oats-xi-in-closest-sydney-hobart-race-since-1982.html
Investec Loyal yesterday claimed its
first Sydney to Hobart line honors win in the closest finish in
29 years, though faces a protest from the yacht race’s committee
for receiving outside assistance.  The 100-foot (30-meter) supermaxi, owned and skippered by
Anthony Bell and last year’s runner-up, finished the 628-
nautical mile event in 2 days, 6 hours, 14 minutes and 18
seconds. It was  3 minutes and 8 seconds ahead  of pre-race
favorite Wild Oats XI. Organizers said it was the narrowest
victory margin since 1982.  The race committee later lodged a protest against Loyal,
accusing it of asking an Australian Broadcasting Corp.
helicopter crew about the sails Wild Oats XI was using,
organizers said. A hearing will take place today at the Royal
Yacht Club of Tasmania in Hobart.  “We respect that there are rules in racing,” Bell said in
comments distributed by organizers. “We are confident the
outcome will confirm our victory in the race.”  It’s the second straight year that the first boat to finish
has faced a challenge to its victory. Wild Oats XI claimed its
fifth win from six starts in 2010 after a jury dismissed a
protest that it breached the rules.  Duel for Lead  Since leaving Sydney Harbour on Dec. 26, Loyal and Wild
Oats XI had dueled for the lead in the 67th edition of the race
that takes competitors down  Australia ’s southeast coast and
across Bass Strait to the island state of Tasmania.  Three years ago, Wild Oats XI became the first boat to beat
the fleet to Hobart four years in a row. It finished as the 2009
runner-up to  New Zealand ’s Alfa Romeo.  The record for most line honors wins is held by
Morna/Kurrewa IV, which sailed to seven victories under two
different owners and two different names, the last time in 1960
as Kurrewa IV.  Of the 88 starters that began the race, 11 have so far
retired, among them line honors contender Wild Thing and Hong
Kong entrant Freefire 52, race organizers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  