-- Buy Health-Care Options Before Jan. 5 Conference, Goldman Says
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2011-12-28T20:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/invest-in-health-care-company-options-before-jan-5-meeting-goldman-says.html
Investors should buy options on
Merck & Co.,  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ,  Humana Inc. (HUM)  and other health-care
companies because their presentations at a Jan. 5 conference may
increase volatility, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. strategists said.  Katherine Fogertey and  John Marshall  recommended buying
January options strangles, a strategy that involves purchasing a
put and call with the same maturity and strike price, to profit
from bigger stock swings by eight health-care companies set to
appear at the Goldman Sachs Healthcare CEO  conference . Next
month’s contracts are attractive because they aren’t pricing in
bigger moves, the strategists wrote in a note today.  “Buying January options in health-care stocks ahead of
this event is attractive,” the New York-based strategists
wrote. “The market is not expecting material stock moving
catalysts in the coming month.”  Investors can pay 3.3 percent on average for January
options that are about 2 percent above and below the stock
prices for the eight companies, the strategists wrote. The trade
starts to profit if the shares rise 4.9 percent on average or
fall 5.6 percent by expiration on Jan. 20, they said.  Goldman recommended the $37-$38 strangles for both Merck,
the second-biggest U.S. drugmaker, and Medtronic, the world’s
biggest maker of heart-rhythm devices. They cited the $87.50-$90
straddle on Humana, the second-largest U.S. Medicare managed-
care provider.  The strategists also recommended strangles on Watson
Pharmaceuticals, a Parsippany, New Jersey-based generic-drug
maker, because regulatory approval of Prochieve, a drug that
helps reduce risk of premature birth, and sales of generic
Lipitor, may boost the company’s 2012 outlook.  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY) ,  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ,  Celgene Corp. (CELG)  and Allergan Inc.
also are attractive strangles, they said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in New York at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  