-- Iraq’s Sunni-Backed Alliance Accepts President Talabani’s Call for Talks
-- B y   K h a l i d   A l - A n s a r y   a n d   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2011-12-28T14:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/iraqi-president-talabani-calls-for-talks-after-bloc-demands-new-elections.html
Iraq’s Sunni Muslim-backed al-
Iraqiya alliance accepted President Jalal Talabani’s invitation
for a meeting among all political parties to defuse sectarian
tensions after lawmakers linked to Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr
called for new elections.  “We have no other option. This meeting is to save the
political process from collapsing,” Salman al-Jumaili, a senior
lawmaker from the Sunni-led group, said today in a phone
interview from Erbil. If talks fail, the al-Iraqiya alliance,
led by former Prime Minister  Ayad Allawi , will join the bid to
dissolve parliament and hold early elections, he said.  The talks sought by Talabani and parliament speaker Osama
Nujaifi are meant to “resolve all pending issues,” according
to a statement posted yesterday on the website of Talabani
Patriotic Union of Kurdistan. party The statement set no date
for the meeting. Talabani will contact parties for final
approval of the gathering, according to the statement.  The al-Ahrar bloc loyal to al-Sadr, an anti-American Shiite
cleric, wants a new national vote. The bloc has 39 seats in the
325-member parliament. Tensions between Prime Minister Nouri al- Maliki’s Shiite-led allies and Sunni politicians have
intensified since a warrant was issued last week for the arrest
of Vice President Tariq al-Hashimi, a Sunni, on terrorism
charges.  Security Vacuum  The infighting comes amid concern that the pullout of U.S.
troops left a security vacuum in Iraq, which seeks investment
and expertise to develop the world’s fifth-largest crude oil
reserves. Bombings on Dec. 23 in mainly Shiite neighborhoods of
 Baghdad  killed at least 57 people and injured 176.  The U.S. would oppose dissolution of the  Iraqi parliament ,
State Department spokesman Mark Toner said yesterday.  “The political parties need to work out their
differences,” Toner said. “There’s an urgency to the
situation. These folks need to sit down in a shared fashion and
address these issues.”  Al-Hashimi, who fled to the semi-autonomous northern region
of Kurdistan, denied all charges on Dec. 20. He questioned the
motivation of the accusations and said the case was timed to
coincide with the U.S. forces’ withdrawal.  Talabani and Nujaifi “agreed to resolve the issue of Tariq
al-Hashimi through judicial measures,” the statement said.  Al-Hashimi’s political bloc, Iraqiya, which draws support
from Sunnis, announced the suspension of its participation in
parliament on Dec. 17 to protest what it says is the arrest of
its members.  Al-Maliki said Dec. 21 that his deputy, Saleh al-Mutlaq, a
Sunni who had described him as a dictator in a recent television
interview, was on “extended leave.”  Al-Sadr, whose Mahdi Army militia had clashed with Iraqi
and U.S. forces, returned to  Iraq  on Jan. 5 after an absence of
almost four years. He has pledged to combat any form of U.S.
presence in Iraq, except for an official embassy, beyond the
Dec. 31 deadline for the complete withdrawal of American troops.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khalid Al-Ansari in Dubai at 
 kalansari@bloomberg.net ;
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net ;
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  