-- Tourniquets to Robots, Iraq War Innovations Finding Wider Use
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2011-12-28T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/iraq-war-s-legacy-of-tourniquets-to-drone-vehicles-seen-in-civilian-uses.html
Filling the need for handy, ready-
to-use tourniquets to save troops wounded by roadside bombs,
Composite Resources Inc. began making them in small lots in
2004.  The device, an inch-wide nylon band with Velcro and a
plastic peg to cinch it tight around a bleeding limb, is now on
Amazon.com for $25. Hospitals from the U.S. to  New Zealand 
are buying it for their emergency crews, said Donnette Brock,
the company’s operations manager, in an interview.  “War is a great catalyst for innovation,” Tom Dee, the
Pentagon’s director for rapid acquisition, said in a phone
interview. “Because you’re in a bit of a hurry, you innovate in
a hurry and that will spin off for a long time.”  While not a “good reason to go to war,” that
inventiveness leaves behind lasting benefits, he said.  The last U.S. forces left  Iraq  a week before Christmas
after almost nine years of war that left 4,487 troops dead. The
cost to U.S. taxpayers may add up to $823 billion, not counting
humanitarian aid.  The jet engine, radar and nuclear power emerged from World
War II technologies and shaped much of the second half of the
20th century. The U.S. and Russian space programs descended from
Nazi  Germany ’s rockets. Those innovations have led to fast air
transit, GPS, weather radar and instant international satellite
communications.  During the Iraq war, drone technology including aircraft
and robot vehicles, have come to the fore. So has language
translation software and biometric identification, versions of
which are already in civilian applications.  Not All Transfer  Not all the Iraq war’s technologies will have commercial
application.  The Pentagon spent about $36 billion to develop and build
blast-proof trucks called the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected
vehicles, or MRAPs, to protect troops from roadside bombs called
improvised explosive devices.  The trucks are made by  BAE Systems (BA/)  Inc., the U.S.
subsidiary of London-based BAE Systems Plc.,  Force Protection
Inc. (FRPT) , and  Navistar International Corp. (NAV)   Oshkosh Corp. (OSK) , makes an
all-terrain variant of the vehicle.  Although the vehicles themselves may not have other uses,
the military learned to “rapidly integrate commercial
technology” and start a production line, Dee said.  Medical Advances  Advances in battlefield medicine may have the most non-
military use, Dee said. Improvements in battlefield dressings
that speed up blood clotting and prevent infection as well as
prosthetics and rehabilitation technologies may have
“applications in the civilian world,” Dee said.  Better body armor and helmets reduced injuries to soldiers’
heads and torsos. That left limbs exposed to blasts and
shrapnel, and led to the focus on devices such as the improved
tourniquet to stop bleeding, Colonel Patricia Hastings, a doctor
in the U.S. Army Medical Command, said in an interview.  Composite Resources, a privately-held company based in  Rock
Hill , South Carolina, in 2010 sold 1.5 million tourniquets to
U.S. and allied militaries, Brock, the company executive, said.  For troops who have lost limbs, military research on
prosthetics has yielded so-called smart limbs that can calculate
weight put on them and adjust for movement, Hastings said. Some
artificial limbs can mimic real ones by moving with the aid of
the user’s brain waves, Hastings said.  The Army’s Institute of Surgical Research in San Antonio
has developed canisters that simulate negative  blood pressure  in
volunteers, to train doctors to identify shock in patients,
Hastings said. “The treatment of shock would probably be the
most lasting legacy for improvements in medical care” to come
from this war, she said.  Autonomous Vehicles  Airborne drones for surveillance and cargo operations, as
well as the ground robots, may find commercial uses, Dee said.  In Iraq and Afghanistan, the U.S. has deployed drones such
as the Predator and Reaper made by General Atomics Aeronautical
Systems Inc.,  San Diego , as well as the Raven-B and Switchblade
made by  Aerovironment Inc. (AVAV)  of Monrovia,  California .  In Afghanistan, the Pentagon is testing an unmanned cargo
helicopter called K-MAX made by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and Kaman
Aerospace Corp., of Bloomfield, Connecticut.  Lockheed also developed a prototype autonomous six-wheeled
vehicle, called the Squad Mission Support System, that can carry
soldiers’ gear. Developed as part of the Army’s Future Combat
System program, parts of which were canceled in 2009, the
autonomous vehicle component also was canceled this year.  The surveillance drones and cargo helicopters will find
civilian uses in border patrol as well as construction, mining
and logging operations, Dee said.  Self-Driving Cars  The ground robots whose technologies were adapted from the
Pentagon’s Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency’s Grand
Challenge program -- it offered a $2 million prize for a vehicle
to drive autonomously over 132 miles in the desert -- may lead
one day to autonomous cars, said Peter Singer, author of “Wired
for War: The Robotics Revolution and Conflict in the 21st
Century” and director of the 21st Century Defense Initiative at
the Brookings Institution in Washington.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  already has adapted technologies from the
competition to outfit existing cars that can drive themselves in
traffic.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  or BMW also is
experimenting with self-driving cars.  Ground robots may also have other applications in dull,
dirty or dangerous jobs in places like warehouses and hospitals
or in agricultural applications, said Ed Durfee, professor of
electrical engineering at the University of Michigan,  Ann Arbor .  The university began working with the U.S. Army in 2007 and
also partners with General Motors Co.,  Deere & Co. (DE) , and  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) , on research into autonomous vehicles.  The robotic technologies underlying such efforts and
developed by the military “will be a huge game changer one day
for ground transportation,” Singer said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  