-- Irish May Pay Greek Price for T-Bill Return
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2011-12-28T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/irish-may-pay-greek-price-for-t-bill-market-return-euro-credit.html
Ireland, which spent this year
trying to prove to investors its finances weren’t like euro
partners closer to the Mediterranean, may have to pay Greek and
Portuguese rates next year to return to the credit market.  Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  laid out a road map on Dec.
14 for Ireland’s return to the bond markets in mid-2013, with
the debt agency planning to sell Treasury bills, or securities
with a maturity of less than a year, in the second half of 2012.
 Greece  and Portugal both sold three-month debt with yields above
4.6 percent in the past three weeks.  “I can’t see them doing any long-term funding as the euro
zone crisis and global growth outlook weigh” on the country,
said Brian Devine, an economist at NCB Stockbrokers in Dublin.
“They’ll probably have to pay rates of between 5 percent and 6
percent to start issuing T-bills.”  While Ireland wants to be the first among the three
countries to regain economic sovereignty after they all were
forced to seek rescue funding, slowing global economies and the
escalating debt crisis is thwarting that ambition.  Ireland’s October 2020 bonds, regarded as the nation’s
market benchmark, yielded 8.48 percent at the end of last week,
up from 8.15 percent at the start of November. Ireland pays
interest of about 3.8 percent on the 45 billion-euro ($58.8
billion) bailout from its European benefactors and about 4.7
percent for the portion of the 22.5 billion-euro loan package it
borrowed so far from the  International Monetary Fund .  Market Focus  “We have been of the view for some time that Ireland
wouldn’t get back to the markets in 2013 and would have to apply
for further funding,”  Dermot O’Leary , an economist at  Goodbody
Stockbrokers  in Dublin, said in an interview. “All focus is on
the euro crisis.”  Ireland exited the bond markets in September 2010 as
investors grew concerned that a  banking (ISEF)  crisis would push the
country into bankruptcy. Two months later, it followed Greece in
seeking a rescue package from the IMF and European Union.
Portugal was bailed out last year.  Greece sold 1.3 billion euros of 91-day bills on Dec. 20 at
an average yield of 4.68 percent.  Portugal  sold 1 billion euros
of bills with a similar maturity at an average yield of 4.873
percent on Dec. 7.  Paying as much as 5 percent “in itself wouldn’t be so bad
to re-access the markets,” said Devine. “It only becomes a
problem if you’re entire debt stock is priced at those levels.”  Rising Rates  John McHale, chairman of the Irish Fiscal Advisory Council,
which counsels the government on tax and spending, expects the
country to pay rates above those charged on its bailout loans
when it returns to the credit markets.  It is “clear that a market rate is going to be above rates
we’re paying on official loans,” McHale said in a Dec. 15
interview with broadcaster  RTE . He was speaking in his capacity
as an economics professor at NUI Galway. “The need to get back
into the markets is coming, but it is not at all certain we will
be able to do that.”  Noonan, the Irish finance minister, said in October that
Ireland was “breaking the perception” that it was a displaced
Mediterranean nation in the Atlantic based on its finances. He
said during his Dec. 14 speech at Bloomberg’s London office that
the country’s debt agency will step up issuance of Treasury
bills and commercial paper in the second half of next year,
“subject to market conditions.”  One-Month Paper  The  National Treasury Management Agency , based in Dublin,
currently has about 500 million euros of commercial paper with
average maturities of about one month outstanding. The NTMA may
follow this up with some longer-term offerings once  market
access  has been shown, Noonan said.  “They might issue some really short-term debt of up to a
year in duration,” said Stephen Kinsella, a lecturer in
economics at the University of Limerick. “They may also issue a
small amount of debt of three-year duration, but this will be
entirely a marketing exercise. The buyers will be lined up and
the  European Central Bank  will most likely come in the next day
to prop up the debt in the secondary market.”  If Ireland wants to avoid what effectively amounts to a
second bailout, the state must be back in the markets in 2013,
as aid runs out at the end of that year. The country is 
projected  to run a deficit of 8.5 billion euros in 2014 when it
also faces an 11.8 billion-euro bond redemption during January
of that year.  Noonan has pledged to do whatever it takes to narrow the
deficit, starting with tax increases and spending cuts amounting
to 3.8 billion euros in 2012.  Avoiding Debt  Ireland’s prospects for regaining economic sovereignty are
largely out of its hands as European leaders struggle to contain
a debt crisis that surfaced in October 2009 when the Greek
government uncovered a budget hole. Since the disclosure,
Greece, Ireland and Portugal have been forced to seek 256
billion euros of bailout funds.  Governments have about 300 billion euros of debt to
refinance in the first quarter, according to analysts at Davy,
the Dublin-based securities firm.  “It’s nothing to do with Ireland’s fiscal and debt
stability, the fact is investors are avoiding European debt, not
just peripheral European debt,” Kinsella said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  