-- Titans’ Mike Munchak Says He Doesn’t Want Penn State Job, Tennessean Says
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2011-12-28T17:43:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/titans-mike-munchak-says-he-doesn-t-want-penn-state-job-tennessean-says.html
Tennessee  Titans first-year coach
Mike Munchak says he is not interested in the job at  Penn State
University , where he played on the offensive line under former
coach  Joe Paterno , the Tennessean reported today.  Munchak said that while he respects his alma mater and hopes
the school finds a successful coach, he has no desire to leave
Tennessee, the Nashville-based newspaper said today following an
interview.  “I am not interested in the Penn State job,” Munchak told
the newspaper. “I am interested in what happens there, and I
don’t want to distance myself from Penn State. But as far as the
head coaching deal, I am.”  Munchak was the top pick of  Penn State ’s search committee,
the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette  reported  today citing unidentified
people. The committee is looking for a replacement to the 85-
year-old Paterno, who was fired last month following his
handling of child sex-abuse charges against former Nittany Lions
assistant Jerry Sandusky.  Titans spokesman Robbie Bohren declined in an e-mail to
comment on Munchak’s future prior to the coach’s regularly
scheduled press conference later today. Penn State spokesman
 Jeff Nelson  said he had no comment on the search.  Munchak, 51, was an offensive lineman at Penn State from
1978 to 1981. A 2001 inductee into the Pro Football Hall of
Fame, he has spent his entire National Football League career
with the Titans’ organization as a player, assistant coach and
head coach.  Tom Bradley  is 1-2 as interim coach following Paterno’s
ouster. The Nittany Lions play the University of Houston in the
TicketCity Bowl on Jan. 2. Green Bay Packers quarterbacks coach
Tom Clements, a former All-American at the  University of Notre
Dame , is next on the list to succeed Paterno, according to the
Post-Gazette.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  