-- Titans’ Munchak Leads List for Penn State Coaching Job, Post-Gazette Says
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2011-12-28T15:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/titans-munchak-leads-list-for-penn-state-coaching-job-post-gazette-says.html
Tennessee Titans first-year coach
Mike Munchak is the leading candidate for the coaching job at
 Penn State University , where he played on the offensive line
under former coach  Joe Paterno , the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
reported today.  Munchak is the top pick of the university’s search
committee, the newspaper  reported  today citing unidentified
people. The committee is looking for a replacement to the 85-
year-old Paterno, who was fired last month following his
handling of child sex-abuse charges against former Nittany Lions
assistant Jerry Sandusky.  Titans spokesman Robbie Bohren declined in an e-mail to
comment on the report prior to Munchak’s regularly scheduled
press conference later today. Penn State spokesman  Jeff Nelson 
said he had no comment on the report.  Munchak said at a Dec. 2 press conference that he wasn’t
lobbying for the Penn State job and hadn’t spoken with anyone at
the university about the vacancy.  “I know things are going to come up with me because I’m
from  Penn State , I played football there, graduated there,”
Munchak said. “It’s a natural thing to start wondering.”  Munchak, 51, was an offensive lineman at Penn State from
1978 to 1981. A 2001 inductee into the Pro Football Hall of
Fame, he has spent his entire National Football League career
with the Titans’ organization as a player, assistant coach and
head coach.  Tom Bradley  is 1-2 as interim coach following Paterno’s
ouster. The Nittany Lions play the University of Houston in the
TicketCity Bowl on Jan. 2. Green Bay Packers quarterbacks coach
Tom Clements, a former All-American at the  University of Notre
Dame , is next on the list to succeed Paterno, according to the
Post-Gazette.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  