-- Japan Ruling Party Proposes Doubling of Sales Tax as Some Lawmakers Rebel
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 2011-12-28T06:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/japan-ruling-party-proposes-doubling-of-sales-tax-as-some-lawmakers-rebel.html
Japan ’s ruling party proposed a plan
to double the  sales tax  by 2015 over the objection of lawmakers
who have threatened to quit the group as Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  struggles to lead an economic recovery.  The Democratic Party of Japan’s plan will raise the tax
from 5 percent to 8 percent in October 2013, and to 10 percent
in April 2015, lawmakers Takeshi Miyazaki and Motoyuki Odachi
told reporters in Tokyo after leaving the meeting. Nine DPJ
members submitted their resignation today, said Shinji Tarutoko,
acting secretary general of the DPJ.  The rebellion over tax issues may dent Noda’s public
support rating though it won’t immediately undercut his ability
to pass legislation, said Steven R. Reed, a professor of
political science at Chuo University in  Tokyo . Noda is
struggling to revive an economy hindered by the March earthquake
and nuclear disaster and burdened by the world’s largest debt.  “The Democrats losing nine votes in the lower house
doesn’t make any difference in the government,” Reed said by
telephone today. “But the key to having a party that gets
things done is to look like you’re getting things done.”  The panel met today in Tokyo to comply with instructions
from Noda, who is currently in India, to finalize its stance
this week.  Little Progress  An aging population and two decades of low growth have
saddled Japan with debt projected to exceed 1 quadrillion yen in
the current fiscal year.  Standard & Poor’s  said last month it
was mulling lowering the country’s sovereign rating, already cut
in January to AA-, as Noda’s government makes little progress at
tackling the burden.  “We’re at a historical juncture,”  Hirohisa Fujii , head of
the DPJ tax panel, told lawmakers today. “What kind of action
was taken by whom will be recorded in history.”  Today’s lawmaker revolt follows Japan’s opposition-
controlled upper chamber earlier this month censuring two of
Noda’s ministers and threatening to boycott the next Diet
session unless they are fired. The non-binding motions against
Defense Minister Yasuo Ichikawa and Consumers Affairs Minister
Kenji Yamaoka were submitted by the  Liberal Democratic Party  and
New Komeito party.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  