-- Japan, India Seal $15 Billion Currency Swap Arrangement to Shore Up Rupee
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2011-12-28T15:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/japan-india-seal-15-billion-currency-swap-arrangement-to-shore-up-rupee.html
Japan  agreed to make $15 billion
available to  India  in a currency swap arrangement as  Europe ’s
deepening debt crisis threatens to curtail developing Asia’s
access to dollar funding.  Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  renewed a bilateral
swap agreement with Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in New
Delhi today. The two nations had signed a $3 billion accord in
June 2008 that has since expired.  Today’s agreement may help India battle this year’s more-
than 16 percent decline in the rupee as Europe’s sovereign-debt
turmoil prompts investors to reduce Asian investments on concern
global growth will slow. Japan gains another avenue of using its
$1.2 trillion of currency reserves as it seeks to bolster its
presence in international finance and foster a closer trade
relationship with  Asia ’s third-largest economy.  “Japan is helping India to provide stability to the
rupee,” said K. V. Kesavan, who specializes in Japanese studies
at New Delhi-based think tank Observer Research Foundation. “It
is an attempt to increase their influence in Asia which has been
down for the past many years.”  With a current-account deficit, slowing domestic growth and
increased international financial stress stemming from Europe,
investors have driven the rupee down, forcing the central bank
to tap its reserves in defense. India’s holdings slid $14
billion in the four weeks to Nov. 25.  China  Pact  Japan has pursued currency-swap accords with other nations,
including one with  South Korea  that it expanded to $70 billion
in October to stabilize Asia’s financial market. Japan also has
bilateral swap deals with  Indonesia , the Philippines and China.  This month, Noda also oversaw a deal with China to expand
use of the yuan and yen in bilateral trade and purchase Chinese
bonds. At home, in an effort to take advantage of the yen
hovering near a record-high against the dollar, officials have
prepared 10 trillion yen ($129 billion) in a fund for companies
to pursue more overseas acquisitions.  Japanese efforts to support regional neighbors are long-
standing. In October 1998, Japan unveiled $30 billion in aid
under the so-called Miyazawa Initiative, named after Finance
Minister Kiichi Miyazawa, designed to help countries obtain
funds at a time when emerging-market bond issuance had largely
dried up amid the 1997-98 financial crisis.  Reserves in Japan swelled to $1.22 trillion in November
from $1.04 trillion at the end of last year, propelled in part
by a resumption of currency intervention under Noda, starting
with one round in September 2010 when he was finance minister.
With Noda as prime minister, yen sales continued with at least
three episodes this year.  Along with today’s accord, Japan also requested that India
ease financial regulations to spur investment in a railway
project. India agreed to study the changes, the Japanese finance
ministry told reporters in  Tokyo  today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  