-- Kenyan Shilling Weakens 2nd Day on Consumer, Government Spending
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2011-12-28T10:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/kenyan-shilling-weakens-2nd-day-on-consumer-government-spending.html
Kenya ’s shilling weakened a second
day against the dollar on speculation that consumer and
government spending increased the currency’s supply.  The currency of  East Africa ’s largest economy depreciated
0.4 percent to 84 by 12:55 p.m. in Nairobi, the capital, heading
for the lowest close in almost two weeks.  “We have seen liquidity improving in the money markets as
the government spends taxes it collected last week, putting it
back into the system,” Dickson Magecha, a dealer at Nairobi-
based Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Ltd., said by phone. “The
government is paying salaries which people are spending.”  The Ugandan shilling retreated 1.4 percent against the
dollar to 2,475. A close at this level would be the lowest since
Dec. 7.  “The depreciation of the shilling is driven by interbank
demand as they are covering their short dollar positions,”
Dickson Musoni, head of  currency trading  at the Ugandan unit of
Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd., said by phone from Kampala today.  Tanzania’s currency strengthened 0.4 percent to 1,588 per
dollar.  “The shilling has appreciated today on account of the
central bank intervention to support the shilling by supplying
dollars to the market,” Hamis Mwakibete, head of trading at
Commercial Bank of Africa Tanzania Ltd., said by phone from  Dar
es Salaam , the commercial capital.  “We have seen some demand coming in from the oil sector
although not yet significant to change the trend of the
currency.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  