-- New York Mets’ Stadium Rating Outlook Cut to Negative by Standard & Poor’s
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2011-12-29T16:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/new-york-mets-stadium-rating-outlook-cut-to-negative-by-standard-poor-s.html
The outlook on $695.4 million of
debt issued to build the  New York Mets ’ Citi Field was cut to
negative by  Standard & Poor’s  after the team’s third straight
losing season and falling attendance.  S&P, which rates the bonds BB+, one level below investment
grade, also cited the recession and competition from other new
stadiums in the region with luxury amenities.  “We believe the project faces  cash-flow  volatility as a
large portion of pledged revenues are game-day revenues with
less than one-half of the revenues under short- to medium-term
contracts,” the rating company said yesterday in a report.  Major League Baseball ’s Mets sold tax-exempt bonds in 2006
and 2009 backed by revenue such as luxury suites, concessions,
naming rights and parking fees. Cash flow has declined each year
since the 42,000-seat stadium opened in 2009. Since 2009, annual
attendance has fallen 27 percent to 2.29 million, S&P said.  According to the website Baseball-Reference.com, Citi Field
attendance declined 35 percent to 2.35 million last year.  Citi Field is more dependent than other stadiums on the
renewal of premium season tickets and advertising because 44
percent of its revenue is secured by contract, a smaller
percentage than other venues, S&P said.  Madoff Troubles  Mets owner  Fred Wilpon  is being sued by the trustee for
 Bernard Madoff ’s defunct firm to recover investment gains from
the team and the Wilpon family. The team is offering minority
stakes to raise additional capital. The Citi Field bonds don’t
rely on revenue from the Mets, S&P said.  “The key issue looking forward is that any unfavorable
change in team financial operations may hurt team performance
and reduce turnstile volumes and revenue,” S&P said.  Citi Field revenue fell 12 percent in 2011 from the prior
year, the rating company said.  Season tickets, which make up about 40 percent of Citi
Field’s total revenue, declined 22 percent, S&P said.
Merchandise and food and beverage receipts, which make up 1
percent and 7 percent of revenue, respectively, fell 20 percent,
the rating company said.  Danielle Parillo, a spokeswoman for the Mets, didn’t
immediately return a call and e-mail seeking comment.  A $20,000 block of Mets stadium bonds backed by payments in
lieu of taxes with a 5 percent coupon and maturing in 2046
traded yesterday at 83.3 cents on the dollar to yield 6.2
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  