-- News Corp.’s HarperCollins, Reliance Communications: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2011-12-28T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/news-corp-righthaven-reliance-intellectual-property.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s HarperCollins
Publishers unit sued a digital publisher for copyright
infringement.  New York-based HarperCollins accused Open Road Integrated
Media LLP of infringing the copyright of a children’s book,
“Julie of the Wolves” by Jean Craighead George.  According to the complaint filed Dec. 23 in federal court
in  New York , HarperCollins has the exclusive right to publish
the work in book form, including by way of “computer, computer-
stored, mechanical or other electronic means now known or
hereafter invented.” The publisher said that so far it has sold
more than 2.8 million units of the book in all formats.  In its court papers, HarperCollins notes that the
technological developments for electronic delivery of a book
“significantly predate” its 1972 publishing agreement with the
author. “While the commercial realization of the e-book is of
more recent vintage, its conception from these roots has long
been foreseeable,” the publisher said.  HarperCollins said it is the only party that has the right
to publish “Julie of the Wolves” as an e-book.  George’s literary agent told HarperCollins in late 2010
that the author had received an offer from an unidentified
publisher to bring out “Julie of the Wolves” as an e-book.
HarperCollins said it responded that it alone had the right to
e-book publication of the work.  Open Road went ahead and published the e-book version of
the work anyway, HarperCollins said, and distributed the text in
electronic format through various websites for sale to the
public including  Amazon.com (AMZN) , and BN.com.  HarperCollins asked the court to bar Open Road from further
infringement of the copyright, and for awards of money damages,
litigation costs and attorney fees.  New York-based Open Road didn’t respond immediately to an
e-mailed request for comment.  Harper Collins  is represented by R. Bruce Rich and Mark J.
Fiore of New York’s  Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP .  The case is HarperCollins Publishers LLC v. Open Road
Integrated Media LLP, 1:11-cv-09400-NRB, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  Copyright Enforcer Righthaven’s Domain Name Put Up for Auction  Righthaven LLC, the Las Vegas-based group that attempted to
enforce the copyrights for content from Stephens Media Group’s
publications, has lost control of its domain name.  The righthaven.com domain name is now  up for auction  on
snapnames.com auction website. According to the website, the
name was put up for auction by a private party. When accessed
yesterday, the site indicated that six bids had been received,
and the top bid at that time was for $1,250.  The auction closes Jan. 6.  The auction is a symptom of the woes that have beset
Righthaven since courts began finding that the company didn’t
have control over the copyrights it attempted to enforce. The
sale is the result of Righthaven’s inability to pay court-
ordered fees to a defendant it unsuccessfully sued.  Most of the more than 100 infringement suits were filed in
federal court in Las Vegas in 2011 and were related to what
Righthaven claimed was unauthorized posting of content from
Stephens’ Vegas Review-Journal.  Closely held Stephens also has newspapers in  Texas ,
Washington State,  Tennessee ,  Oklahoma ,  North Carolina , Arkansas
and Hawaii.  Reliance Shuts Down File-Sharing Access When Films Are Released  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM) , the Mumbai-based telephone
and Internet services company, bars its  Internet users  from
access to file-sharing sites whenever movies produced by
affiliate  Reliance Entertainment  are released, India’s Business
Standard  reported .  Sanjay Tandon, Reliance Entertainment’s vice president,
music and anti-piracy, told the Business Standard that it blocks
the file-sharing sites to protect its intellectual property.  Although Tandon said his company has an order from the
Delhi high court blocking access to file-sharing for other
Internet service providers in addition to Reliant, the actual
blocking seems to occur only with Reliance’s RCom Internet
service, according to the Business Standard.  The blocking may do more than deter piracy because while
these sites are used for music and movie downloading, they are
also employed by those who need to transfer large-sized
documents, pictures and files, the Business Standard reported.  China ’s High Court to Issue Ruling Related to Online IP Rights  China’s Supreme People’s Court will issue a ruling related
to online  intellectual property  rights in January,  China Daily
reported .  The court found that online infringement was an element in
half the copyright cases it dealt with in 2011, according to
 China Daily .  The ruling will seek to balance the protection of IP with
the grown of China’s online community, China Daily reported.  The number of IP cases Chinese courts receive has tripled
in the past decade, China Daily reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Napa Valley Geographic Indication Recognized by  Thailand   Thailand has recognized the Napa Valley geographic
indication for wine, the  Napa Valley Vintners Association  said
in a  statement . The association represents more than 400
wineries in Northern  California ’s Napa Valley.  The St. Helena, California-based regional trade group
worked with Thailand’s Department of Intellectual Property to
achieve the geographic-indication registration in that country.  In Thailand, the preference is for red wine, which garners
70 percent of the market, according to the California Wine
Institute. The institute said wine consumption is increasing in
Thailand, especially among the 25 to 55 age group.  Kanchipuram Sari Designation Now Permits Less Gold and Silver  Weavers of saris given the  Kanchipuram  designation of
origin in  India ’s state of Tamil Nadu have received a break from
the government,  the Economic Times reported .  Saris entitled to the Kanchipuram designation were required
to contain lace woven of 57 percent silver and 0.6 percent gold,
which was causing weavers severe economic hardship because of
the rising prices of gold and silver, according to the Economic
Times.  The government has now eased the requirements to 40 percent
silver and 0.5 percent gold, the newspaper reported.  Some Kanchipuram weavers say they are against the system of
geographic origin anyway because consumers aren’t aware of what
the label symbolizes and don’t look for it when buying saris,
according to the Economic Times.  Nepali Sugar Smuggling Ring Accused of Trademark Infringement  Police in Nepal have broken up a smuggling ring that was
bringing Indian sugar to Nepal and repacking and selling it in
sacks bearing the trademarks of a Nepali company, Nepal’s
Republica newspaper  reported .  The district police found that the sugar was carried across
the border by children from bordering villages, with each child
carrying as much as 7 kilograms of sugar a day on a bicycle,
according to Republica.  An official of the Nepal Police told Republica that a
criminal case will be filed against the company selling the
goods for counterfeiting the brand of a legitimate company and
violating that company’s Black Marketeering Act.  An official of the accused company said he wasn’t trying to
infringe a trademark and was using bags marked with the
legitimate company’s logo because they were cheaper, according
to Republica.  For more trademark news, click here.  Patents  Multiple Claims in Oracle Patent Rejected by Patent Office  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s patent lawsuit against Google Inc. over
Android software may have lost a little steam following a
finding by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Dec. 23.  Redwood City , California-based Oracle is seeking at least
$1 billion in damages from the operator of the world’s largest
search engine. The company accuses Google of infringing its Java
patents and copyrights in the Android operating system, now
running on more than 150 million mobile devices. The suit was
filed in August 2010.  One of the Oracle patents at issue in the case -- 6,192,476
-- was the subject of a procedure in the patent office known as
a reexamination. The patent office took a second look at the
claims -- the key elements of the patent -- and rejected 17 of
that particular patent’s 21 claims.  That patent was issued to Sun Microsystems in February 2001
and became Oracle’s as part of its 2010 acquisition of Sun.
For patent news, click here.  IP Moves  Troutman Sanders  Adds Patent Specialist to Chicago IP Group  Troutman Sanders LLP  hired John J. Gresens for its IP
practice, the Atlanta-based firm said in a statement.  Gresens , who joined from Chicago’s  Vedder Price , does
litigation and patent acquisition work. He has represented
clients in federal court, before the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office and at the U.S. International Trade Commission, a
government body that has the authority to bar the importation of
products that infringe intellectual property rights.  He has an undergraduate degree from  St. John’s University 
and a law degree from Hamline University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 