-- Noble’s Cyprus Gas Find May Be Complicated by Turkey
-- B y   M i k e   L e e   a n d   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2011-12-29T09:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/noble-s-cyprus-gas-discovery-may-be-complicated-by-turkey-2-.html
(Corrects spelling of researcher’s name in eighth paragraph
of story originally published Dec. 28.)  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL) ’s plans to develop
as much as 8 trillion cubic feet of natural gas off the coast of
Cyprus may be complicated by a dispute with Turkey over
development of the field.  The discovery may hold 5 trillion to 8 trillion cubic feet
of gas, Houston-based Noble Energy said today in a statement.
The field, which lies in the  Mediterranean Sea  between Cyprus
and  Israel , covers 40 square miles (100 square kilometers) and
requires more appraisal before development, the company said.  Turkey doesn’t recognize the Greek Cypriot government and
in September sent an exploration vessel accompanied by warships
and fighter jets to the area after Noble started drilling.
Cyprus is divided after  Turkey  invaded the northern third of the
island in 1974. Development projects should await resolution of
the island’s political status, Turkey has said.  “The politics are going to get more and more complicated
as you get closer to development,” said  John Malone , an analyst
at Global Hunter Securities LLC in New York.  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon summoned
Cyprus President Demetris Christofias and Dervish Eroglu, the
leader of the Turkish Cypriot community, to New York for a new
round of talks in January to reunify the island.  The gas discovery is in his nation’s “exclusive economic
zone,” Christofias said at a press conference in Nicosia today.
“Cyprus is coming into Europe’s energy map with prospects of
substantially contributing to the EU’s energy security.”  Levant Basin  The U.S. Geological survey  estimates  that the Levant Basin,
a triangular slice of the Mediterranean lying between Cyprus and
Israel, may hold 122 trillion cubic feet of gas.  Noble Energy 
discovered about 9 trillion cubic feet of gas at the Tamar field
in 2009 and as much as 20 trillion cubic feet at the Leviathan
field in 2010, both off Israel.  The Cyprus field is the first discovered off the nation’s
coast. At current gas prices of about $4 per million British
thermal units, the find would be valued at $32 billion, said
Constantinos Hadjistassou, an energy researcher at the
University of Cyprus.  Noble Energy operates the Cyprus well and owns a 70 percent
share. Delek Drilling-LP and  Avner Oil Exploration LLP (AVNRL)  each hold
a 15 percent stake, it said.  Noble Energy  fell (NBL)  1.7 percent to $94.02 at the close in  New
York . Expectations for the Cyprus field were high, Michael Hall,
an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co., wrote in a note to clients,
and “were recently increased following the upgrade of Leviathan
potential and rumors that Cyprus could represent Noble’s largest
eastern Mediterranean prospect.”  More Drilling  Avner climbed to the highest level since April 28,
advancing 2 percent to 2.418 shekels at the close in  Tel Aviv .
Delek gained 1.6 percent to 14.15 shekels, the highest since
Jan. 17.  Cyprus’s government announced a second oil and gas
licensing round on Nov. 23 that will cover 12 of 13 blocks in
the ocean south of the island. Turkey said on Dec. 9 it will
begin exploring for oil and gas off the northern part of Cyprus
it controls within two months.  With enough to supply Cyprus for 150 years, gas from the
Noble Energy discovery will be exported from the Mediterranean
to Western  Europe , said Pierre Godec, an oil-industry
consultant. Exports will be complicated by historic tension
among Cyprus’s Greek community and Turkey, said Godec, a former
managing director of Elf Exploration UK Plc.  A pipeline for exports would have to be connected to
systems that cross Turkey, he said. A plant to liquefy the fuel
and ship it overseas would probably process gas from fields in
Cyprus and Israel, Godec said.  “The whole area has good prospects for some more
discoveries,” he said. “That is going to change substantially
the whole profile of Cyprus for the next five to 10 years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net ;
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  