-- Nomura Narrowly Tops Goldman in Japan Merger Advice in 2011
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2011-12-29T06:41:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/nomura-narrowly-tops-goldman-sachs-in-japan-merger-advisory-work-in-2011.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  pulled ahead of
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to hold on to the top spot for mergers
and acquisitions advisory work in  Japan  in 2011, after the two
competed neck and neck during the last two months.  Nomura, the nation’s largest brokerage, this year advised
companies on 134 transactions worth $65.4 billion, including
 Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) ’s $13.7 billion acquisition of Swiss
drugmaker Nycomed, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Goldman
Sachs came in second after handling 24 deals worth $62.3
billion, according to the data.  Retaining the No. 1 position will require Nomura to harness
Japanese demand for overseas assets. Bolstered by a strong yen,
Japan’s companies spent about $88.3 billion on overseas
acquisitions in 2011, the most in any of the twelve years for
which Bloomberg data is available. Nomura ranked fourth among
advisers of such deals, behind Goldman Sachs, Credit Suisse
Group AG and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , the data show.  “Japanese companies will increase their presence even
further next year as acquirers in cross-border mergers and
acquisitions as they are in a relatively strong position in
business and financial performance,” Nomura’s Joint Head of
Global M&A Kentaro Okuda said in an interview. “We are already
seeing this trend in our pipeline of deals which will keep our
M&A bankers busy through the New Year break.”  Nomura’s shares were unchanged at 235 yen at the 3 p.m.
close of  Tokyo  Stock Exchange trading.  Left Out  Nomura competed with Goldman Sachs for the top position
since October, when the New York-based bank took first place in
the rankings after advising Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd. in
its $22.5 billion acquisition by Nippon Steel Corp. Nomura
wasn’t involved with that deal, Japan’s biggest in at least five
years.  Japan saw 2,261 transactions valued at $195.9 billion this
year to Dec. 29, a record for the equivalent period, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. A total of 795 Japanese firms,
including Mitsubishi Corp., Kirin Holdings Co., Terumo Corp. and
Tokio Marine Holdings Inc., made acquisitions overseas.  Nomura and Goldman Sachs were followed by  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , Deutsche Bank AG and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  in the
rankings, according to the data. Goldman Sachs’s Tokyo-based
spokeswoman  Hiroko Matsumoto  declined to comment on the advisory
ranking.  Tapping Koizumi  Nomura has held the top position for five years. The Tokyo-
based brokerage had a 33.4 percent market share this year, the
lowest in three years, according to Bloomberg data.  Among the purchases on which Nomura offered advice this
year was its own acquisition of affiliate Nomura Tochi Tatemono
Co. for $11 billion. It also advised on Toshiba Corp.’s
acquisition of nuclear-plant designer Westinghouse Electric Co.
and Tokyo Stock Exchange’s merger with Osaka Securities
Exchange.  Goldman Sachs, which hasn’t been No. 1 in Japan since 2006,
is the top adviser for global mergers and acquisitions this
year. It also advised Nycomed on its takeover by Takeda as well
as with Hitachi Ltd. on its sale of a hard disk drive business
to Western Digital Corp. for $4.3 billion.  As part of its efforts to secure business after the March
11 earthquake and tsunami, the U.S. bank tapped former Japanese
Prime Minister  Junichiro Koizumi  to speak to 300 investors and
company executives at a forum in Tokyo in June.  The U.S. bank has donated at least 520 million yen ($6.7
million) to help with emergency relief efforts in the wake of
Japan’s largest earthquake on record, the biggest donation among
161 financial firms in Japan, according to research conducted by
Bloomberg News in April.  Nomura is ranked twelfth among acquisition advisers
globally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  