-- Hockney, Freud, Hirst Exhibits to Lure Art Fans in 2012: Preview
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2011-12-28T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/hockney-freud-hirst-exhibitions-to-lure-art-fans-in-2012-martin-gayford.html
Three champion British artists line
up in  London  for a grand parade of exhibitions at the start of
Olympic year. First out is  David Hockney , whose “A Bigger
Picture” (Jan. 21-April 9, 2012) will fill the main galleries
of the  Royal Academy  almost entirely with new pictures.  In recent years, Hockney has been hard at work in a quiet
corner of East Yorkshire. When asked to paint a portrait of the
Queen, he replied that unfortunately he was, “very busy
painting  England  actually, her country.”  He has not only been painting it, he has been drawing it on
his iPad and experimenting with a hi-tech medium consisting of
high-definition images taken by nine cameras pointing in
slightly differing directions. The results, a sort of moving
Cubist collage, will be unveiled to the world at the exhibition.
The  RA  recommends booking in advance for this exhibition. Rumor
has it that the projected attendance may exceed the previous
record at the venue held by one of Hockney’s idols,  Claude Monet .  Hockney wasn’t too busy to spend time a decade ago sitting
for a portrait by his friend  Lucian Freud . The exhibition
“Lucian Freud Portraits” (Feb. 9-May 27) at the  National
Portrait Gallery  is the first major showing of the artist’s work
since his death last July. The restriction of the title is in
reality not much of a limitation since to Freud a picture of
just about anything was a portrait, certainly a depiction of a
person wearing no clothes (to him, “a naked portrait”).  Personal Portrait  Had Freud lived, this exhibition would have marked his 90th
birthday year. As it is, it will be the first opportunity since
2002 to see a retrospective in London of work by a painter who
increasingly looks not only like one of the great U.K. artists,
but among the most important painters of the past 50 years
anywhere. I must, however, declare an interest, since one of the
portraits is of me. I’m looking forward to seeing myself for the
first time in some years.  Third contestant in this artistic triathlon is  Damien Hirst , the first big museum retrospective of whose art will be
at  Tate Modern  (April 4-Sept. 9). Included will be many
celebrated -- or notorious, depending on your point of view --
pieces, among them “The Physical Impossibility of Death in the
Mind of Someone Living” (1991) otherwise known as Hirst’s
shark. In the Turbine Hall, meanwhile, will be the sinister yet
sparkling “For the Love of God” (2007), the diamond-encrusted
platinum skull which, even though there is controversy as to
whether the original 50 million pound ($78.5 million) asking
price was ever paid, must be the most costly memento mori in art
history.  Claude’s Light  After the excitement of the Leonardo extravaganza, things
will be quieter on the Old Master front, though “Turner
Inspired: In the Light of Claude” (March 14-June 5) at the
 National Gallery  might be an intriguing exercise in compare and
contrast between the 19th-century British master and his idol,
Claude Lorrain.  The main event of the season at  Tate Britain  is similar in
concept: “Picasso and Modern British Art” (Feb. 15 -July 15)
will juxtapose the most influential artist of the 20th century
with his numerous local admirers. No prizes for guessing which
will come out looking best.  The  British Museum  will be continuing its series on
pilgrimages with “Hajj: Journey to the Heart of Islam” (Jan.
26- April 15), and in the decorative-art department the  Victoria
and Albert Museum  has “British Design 1948-2012” (March 31-
Aug. 12), though whether U.K. goods, fashion apart, have
deserved many medals for good looks in recent years is
debatable.  In Paris, the  Musee d’Orsay  has “Degas and the Nude”
(March 13-July 1), an investigation of the French master’s
professional preoccupation with naked women. While at the  Grand
Palais  “Beaute Animale: De Durer a  Jeff Koons ” (March 21-July
16) promises to be a treat for lovers of hares, puppies and
piglets.  Information:  http://www.royalacademy.org.uk ;
 http://www.npg.org.uk ;  http://www.tate.org.uk/modern/ ;
 http://www.nationalgallery.org.uk ;  http://tate.org.uk/britain/ ;
 http://www.britishmuseum.org ;  http://www.vam.ac.uk ;
 http://musee-orsay.fr ;  http://www.rmn.fr .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. His most recent books are “A
Bigger Message: Conversations With David Hockney” and “Man With
a Blue Scarf: On Sitting for a Portrait by Lucian Freud.” The 
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
Martingayford on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 