-- Montblanc Watches Set to Outsell Pens With China Growth: Retail
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2011-12-28T23:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/montblanc-watches-set-to-outsell-pens-with-china-growth.html
Montblanc, which has made fountain
pens for more than a century, sees the writing on the wall.  The  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR)  unit is tapping a surge in
demand for high-end watches to offset slower growth in the
brand’s traditional writing-instrument business. The shift
reflects Montblanc’s broader transformation over the past decade
into a  luxury-goods  company.  “In the next five years or so, watches have the chance to
become bigger than writing instruments” even as sales of high-
end pens continue to grow, Chief Executive Officer Lutz Bethge
said in an interview at Montblanc’s headquarters in Hamburg.  Pens account for just under half of sales at Montblanc,
which has branched out with limited-edition watches that cost as
much as $310,000, $1,415 luggage carriers and diamond jewelry
for women. Unlike those more conspicuous luxury items, pens stay
hidden in pockets or briefcases until they’re used. In the age
of e-mail, smartphones and chip-and-pin credit cards, that’s
happening less frequently.  Pens “just don’t have the growth characteristics of
watches or jewelry,” said Jon Cox, an analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets.  Montblanc, which has been making watches for 14 years, is
investing in  China , where wealthy consumers own four luxury
watches on average, according to the Hurun Wealth Report. The
company is opening its biggest outlet to date, an 1,800-square-
meter store in Beijing that will bring the total number of
boutiques to 421, with about a fifth in China.  Watch Market  Montblanc’s growth is being tempered by its exposure to
writing instruments, which are gaining more slowly than the
watch and jewelry markets, according to Cox. The global watch
market probably grew 20 percent to 30 billion euros ($39
billion) this year, double the rate for luxury goods overall,
Bain. & Co. estimates. The pen market had “double-digit”
growth to 1.2 billion euros in 2010, Bain said.  Montblanc’s sales climbed 22 percent in the last financial
year to 672 million euros, lagging Richemont’s 33 percent
increase in revenue to 6.89 billion euros.  Sales at the company may increase 9 percent this fiscal
year, lower than the 20 percent gain in Richemont’s total
revenue, said Rene Weber, an analyst at Bank Vontobel in Zurich.  “What we’ve seen over the past 10 years is a long-term
story to reposition Montblanc and it’s now seen as a
multiproduct brand with a good reputation, especially on the
watch side,” Weber said. He estimates that watches currently
account for about 20 percent of revenue.  Chasing Cartier   The brand contributes a 10th of Swiss parent company
Richemont’s 6.89 billion euros of annual sales, trailing only
jeweler Cartier as a contributor to total revenue. Geneva-based
Richemont’s 19 brands include luxury watchmakers Vacheron
Constantin and Piaget, as well as jeweler Van Cleef & Arpels.  Richemont shares have dropped 16 percent in the past year
because of concerns the economic slowdown will curb  consumer
spending  on luxury products, more than the 14 percent decline at
 LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s largest maker
of luxury goods, and the 2 percent drop in the 30-member Stoxx
600 Personal & Household Goods Index.  Bethge, who became Montblanc’s CEO in 2007 and continued a
repositioning of the brand that began under former Richemont
Chief Executive Norbert Platt, said the company faced a choice.  “Either we stayed in the functional writing instrument
market, which we saw as limited, or there was this other market
where people were buying because of a certain message and desire
for the highest quality, and this was the luxury market,” he
said. “This was where Montblanc belonged.”  Limited Production  While the company still makes pens from scratch in  Germany ,
including 100,000 euro Meisterstueck fountain pens in gold and
diamonds, watchmakers in Switzerland’s Jura mountains craft
complicated timepieces encased in precious metals such as
platinum and white gold. Output at one of two sites, Montblanc’s
Villeret atelier, is limited to just a “few hundred” pieces
each year, according to Bethge.  Unlike many watchmakers that rely on  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  and
others for their supply of movements, the motors that drive a
watch, Montblanc developed its own. Customers expect the same
quality standards that apply to the brand’s pens, Bethge said.  “It was an opportunity and challenge for us at the same
time,” he said. “We knew we would never be successful if we
just bought the movements somewhere or bought the watch and
labeled it with our brand name.”  A part of Montblanc’s efforts to break into the ranks of
Switzerland’s watchmaking elite was Richemont’s 2006 purchase of
Minerva, a 153-year-old Swiss watchmaker.  Making Movements  The acquisition helped Montblanc, which competes with
brands including Rolex and Swatch Group’s Omega, develop
movements, as well as balance springs, which help control the
speed at which the wheels and hands in a watch turn. Only a few
Swiss watchmakers can make the springs, according to Vontobel’s
Weber.  Switzerland  exported about 16.2 billion Swiss francs ($17.4
billion) worth of watches in 2010. Data from the Federation of
the Swiss Watch Industry show that  Asia  imported more than half
of those timepieces.  “Watches are not just about telling the time -- they’re
also a jewelry item and therefore a subtle way to display”
wealth and style, said Tory Frame, U.K. head of consumer
products at Bain & Co. “With pens, there are substitutes now
and people maybe aren’t writing as much as they used to.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Dermot Doherty in Geneva
at   ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Sara Marley at
   smarley1@bloomberg.net  