-- Look Past Taxes to Fix Global Puzzle of Inequality: Clive Crook
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2011-12-28T00:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/look-past-taxes-to-fix-global-inequality-puzzle-commentary-by-clive-crook.html
Democrats in the U.S. have decided
to make  inequality  a central issue in next year’s elections. I’d
question whether that’s good politics. Even in hard times,
American voters aren’t easily persuaded by appeals to class
interests.  Yet even setting electoral tactics aside, a focus on
inequality seems unlikely to lead to better policy, especially
if you look at how current U.S. policy choices stack up against
those of other advanced industrialized economies.  The reason is that inequality isn’t one issue but a
writhing bundle of issues. Unpack it and you see there’s no easy
remedy. It demands more thought and humility than most
politicians can muster.  For the American left, the question comes down to the
incomes of “the 1 percent” and their taxes. Even if, like me,
you think that a rapidly widening gap between rich and poor
calls for a response and that progressive taxes are ethically
correct, this obsession with the peak of the income pyramid is
much too simple-minded.  Growth in the highest U.S. incomes has been stunning, to be
sure. A recent  study  by the  Congressional Budget Office  found
that the after-tax incomes of the top 1 percent of U.S.
households almost quadrupled in real terms between 1979 and
2007. The income of the median household -- again after taxes
and transfers, and adjusted for inflation -- went up just 35
percent. On the same basis, incomes of the lowest 20 percent of
households managed an increase of only 18 percent.  The Inequality Mystery  In less than three decades, the 1 percent’s share of after-
tax U.S. incomes more than doubled, from 8 percent to 17
percent. The change is not unique to the U.S. -- inequality has
increased almost everywhere -- but the surge in the very highest
incomes is especially startling in America.  Why is it happening? Nobody quite knows.  The combination of global markets and new technology has
increased the earning power of star athletes and entertainers.
The pay of top executives has soared, too. That might be because
the most successful companies have grown bigger and more
difficult to run: With more at stake, companies are willing to
pay more for top talent. Globalization increases the returns to
innovation, and the U.S. is the world’s leading innovator.  If top incomes were surging only for reasons like that, few
would complain: Americans believe in pay for performance.
Unfortunately, huge rewards for disastrous incompetence have
also become common. Pay for no performance points to a failure
of corporate governance. The finance industry, with its
oversized paychecks, has expanded mightily -- not to the
country’s obvious benefit, and partly thanks to hidden subsidy.  The point is, some instances of very high pay are fair and
efficient, and some aren’t. Do you raise taxes on all high
incomes, regardless?  If that’s all you do, you leave the underlying failures (of
corporate governance, financial regulation and so on)
unaddressed. Also, heavier taxes have practical limits. There’s
collateral damage to incentives. The rich can afford to be
clever about tax shelters, so higher rates raise less revenue
than you think. Push tax rates too high and the super-rich can
simply leave.  Perhaps you think the U.S. taxes the rich so lightly these
issues don’t apply. Think again. By international standards, the
overall tax burden in the U.S. is low -- mainly because there’s
no national  sales tax  -- but contrary to popular opinion the top
marginal rates of income tax (adding in state income taxes,
where applicable) are not much out of line.  Tax the Middle  If anything, rich Americans contribute a greater share of
taxes than do their peers in other industrialized nations. The
top 1 percent of U.S. taxpayers paid 40 percent of federal
income taxes in 2007. The top 1 percent of British taxpayers
paid 24 percent of the corresponding total.  A new  report  by the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development shows that in the middle of the last decade --
i.e., after the Bush tax cuts were introduced -- the U.S. income
tax was about as strongly redistributive as income taxes in
 Canada ,  Denmark ,  Finland , the Netherlands and  Sweden . You might
have noticed that the CBO report on top incomes was widely
quoted, but one finding got less attention: Between 1979 and
2007, “the federal individual income tax became slightly more
progressive.”  The awkward truth is that the U.S. income tax system is
anomalous not because it taxes the rich lightly but because it
taxes everybody else lightly.  I grant you, because the rich in America have done so well,
they can afford to pay more taxes regardless. Yet with notable
exceptions (such as the carried interest loophole for some
financial executives), it’s wrong to say that the U.S. tax
system has been rigged in favor of the rich. Overall, despite
the Bush tax cuts, the opposite is closer to the truth.  The OECD’s international comparisons tell you some other
interesting things. For instance, at the bottom of the  income
distribution , unlike at the top, U.S. policy is an outlier. In
most industrial countries, social benefits such as  unemployment
insurance  and other cash supports are easier to get and more
generous than in the U.S. -- and typically two or three times
more powerful in reducing inequality.  This difference is at least as striking as divergent rates
of growth in top incomes. Why does it command so much less
attention? One reason is that American liberals find high
incomes more upsetting than poverty. It’s an instance of how
distorting the preoccupation with inequality can be.  An enlightened liberal agenda should include higher taxes
on the rich -- and higher taxes on the middle class as well.
That agenda needs those revenue streams not to punish the 1
percent but to pay for low-wage subsidies, other supports for
the working poor and a more effective safety net. It would
prioritize K-12 education, vocational training and other main
avenues of opportunity for the less well-off. It would attack
rent-seeking, broken corporate governance and hidden subsidies
to industries that don’t add value.  These things would narrow the gap between rich and poor.
Focus too narrowly on inequality, though, and you might forget
the rest. If you do that, you will have forgotten why inequality
matters.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed here are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 