-- Top 2011 Films Star Clooney’s Baron, Gosling’s Getaway Driver
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2011-12-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/top-2011-films-star-clooney-s-baron-gosling-s-getaway-driver.html
A fading silent-film star and a
chimpanzee that uses sign language. A sand-miner with
apocalyptic visions and a Hawaiian land baron. A distraught
mother and a getaway driver.  They’re all leading characters in my favorite films of
2011. Here’s my Top-10 list, in alphabetical order:  “Another Earth”: Brit Marling stars in this wondrous
drama about a young woman seeking redemption for causing a fatal
car crash. She finds hope in a newly discovered planet that
mirrors Earth.  “Buck”: A touching documentary about Buck Brannaman, the
inspiration for  Robert Redford ’s equine trainer in “The Horse
Whisperer.” Brannaman overcame a Dickensian childhood to become
a world-famous horse handler known for his uncanny ability to
communicate with the animals.  “Drive”: Ryan Gosling channels  Clint Eastwood  in his
quiet-hero role as a Hollywood stunt man who moonlights as a
getaway driver. Albert Brooks is shocking as a vicious gangster.  “Incendies”: Canadian siblings explore their mother’s
mysterious  Middle East  past after she dies and leaves them
envelopes for a father they thought was dead and a brother they
never knew about. A little-seen gem.  “Margin Call”: J.C. Chandor makes a scintillating
directing debut with this dark drama about an investment firm on
the brink of collapse during the 2008 financial meltdown. The
first-rate cast includes  Kevin Spacey ,  Paul Bettany , Simon Baker, Stanley Tucci and Jeremy Irons.  Talking Chimp  “Project Nim”: The true story of a chimp raised by humans
and taught sign language before being shipped back to the
primate center where he was born and later sold to a medical
research lab. An important lesson about the folly of trying to
treat animals like people.  “Take Shelter”: Michael Shannon stars in this spooky
story about an Ohio sand-miner plagued by nightmares of an
upcoming storm. Makes you want to avoid the Weather Channel.  “The Artist”: A silent film about silent films, this
French production is a gorgeous homage to an era when movie
stars were as mum as Marcel Marceau.  “The Descendants”:  George Clooney  expands his repertoire
in Alexander Payne’s bittersweet drama about a Hawaiian father
who must raise his two daughters alone after their mother is
seriously injured in a boating accident.  “We Need to Talk About Kevin”: The mother of a Columbine-
type killer tries to figure out what went wrong in this powerful
adaptation of Lionel Shriver’s novel.  Tilda Swinton  delivers a
bravura performance as the bewildered mom.  Other noteworthy films from the past year: “Hugo,”
“Carnage,” “Midnight in Paris,” “Tabloid,” “Rampart,”
“Melancholia,” “Martha Marcy May Marlene,” “A Separation”
and “Winter in Wartime.”  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 