-- Argentine VP Who Snubbed Investors Key to Stability as Boss Fights Cancer
-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s   a n d   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2011-12-29T15:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/loyal-argentine-vp-is-key-to-stability-as-boss-battles-cancer.html
Argentine Vice President  Amado Boudou , who for years antagonized investors in  South America ’s
second-biggest economy, may now become their guarantor of
political and economic stability in a nation reeling from its
leader’s surprise diagnosis with cancer.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  will take a 20-day
medical leave after she undergoes surgery Jan. 4 for thyroid
cancer, leaving her former economy minister as caretaker. While
investors derided Boudou’s 2008 seizure of $24 billion in
pension funds, they prefer him to a power vacuum or
constitutional crisis that could have arisen if someone less
loyal to Fernandez were standing in, said Mark Jones, a
political science professor at  Rice University .  “With Boudou there, Fernandez can rest comfortably and
focus 100 percent on getting better,” Jones, who has taught at
universities in  Argentina , said in a telephone interview from
Houston. “People are now looking back very favorably on their
decision to go with a loyal vice president.”  Fernandez, 58, chose Boudou to join her successful re-
election bid this year after feuding with her previous Vice
President, Julio Cobos, during her first, four-year term. In
2008, Cobos cast the deciding vote in the Senate that defeated a
government plan to raise taxes on agricultural exports and was
an outspoken critic of the government’s alleged manipulation of
inflation data.  No ‘High Jinks’  A trained economist and bureaucrat, the 49-year-old Boudou
also lacks the same weight inside the ruling Peronist Party as
another vice president, Daniel Scioli, who served under
Fernandez’s husband and predecessor  Nestor Kirchner  and now is
governor of  Buenos Aires province . Kirchner died last year of a
heart attack.  “Were Cobos still vice president, there would be much more
consternation,” said Jones. “Even with someone like Scioli
there would be greater concern about maneuvering or high
jinks.”  The long-haired, motorcycling Boudou never held elected
office before. He energized Fernandez’s campaign this year by
playing rock guitar to supporters during rallies. Like his boss,
he’s also known to lash out at government critics, including the
media. In 2010 he compared journalists from Buenos Aires’ two
biggest newspapers, Clarin and La Nacion, to Nazis “who clean
up the gas chambers.”  Fernandez, looking in good spirits, praised Boudou while
talking about her illness yesterday. During a public appearance
at the presidential palace she jokingly warned him “to watch
your step” during her convalescence.  Pension Grab  Boudou impressed Fernandez when as chief social security
regulator in 2008 he pushed through Congress a plan to
nationalize the pension industry to fund public spending during
the global financial crisis. The law gave the government control
of about a quarter of shares available for public trading and
seats on the boards of companies including steelmaker Siderar
SAIC and real-estate developer Consultatio SA.  “He was rewarded for that,” Orlando Ferreres, who was
deputy economy minister in 1989, said in a telephone interview
from  Buenos Aires . “He has never thought of doing anything
different from what Cristina does.”  Promoted to economy minister in 2009, he was in charge of
last year’s restructuring of $12.9 billion in debt left
unsettled following the country’s 2001 default on $95 billion in
bonds. He also led a failed effort to restructure more than $8
billion in defaulted debt with the Paris Club group of creditor
nations, which includes Germany and  Japan .  In an April 2010 interview Boudou blamed criticisms of the
government’s price monitoring on holders of inflation-linked
debt who wanted better returns and said price increases were low
for the poorest sector of the population. “It’s understandable
that other sectors of the population, especially the middle and
upper class, have a perception that prices” are high, he said.  Boudou’s spokesman didn’t return phone calls seeking
comment.  Markets Calm  Investors have taken Fernandez’s health problems in their
stride. The yield on government dollar bonds due 2017 was little
changed today at 10.31 percent as of 10:08 a.m. New York time.
Since her landslide re-election Oct. 23, yields are down 68
basis points while the peso has slid 1.6 percent against the
 U.S. dollar , a smaller decline than every major Latin American
currency except  Peru ’s sol.  One reason for the calm is because Fernandez’s prognosis
looks good. Tests show the tumor, which was caught in a regular
checkup, is contained and has shown no signs of spreading,
government spokesman Alfredo Scoccimarro told reporters Dec. 27.
Thyroid cancer is highly survivable, with more than 95 percent
of patients living at least 10 years after detection, according
to the U.S.  National Institutes of Health .  Resilient Economy  Similarly, Argentina’s economy is weathering the global
economic slump. While sudden policy shifts and inflation that
economists estimate at 25 percent have led foreign investors to
shun Argentina in recent years, a strong  trade surplus  and
consumer spending boom fueled 8.3 percent economic growth this
year, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. Growth next
year is expected to slow to 2.8 percent.  Still, concern about Argentina’s stability may increase if
the president’s condition grows worse or if she is sidelined
longer than expected,  Daniel Kerner , a Buenos Aires-based
analyst at the Eurasia Group, wrote in a research note.  Fernandez’s health came into question this year after she
canceled trips abroad and activities three times following bouts
of low  blood pressure . A prolonged absence may kick off an early
succession struggle within the Peronist party, though Boudou
wouldn’t be the strongest aspirant, said Kerner. Fernandez is
banned by the constitution from seeking a third term.  “There is speculation over whether she will seek to reform
the constitution, or push for a yet unknown successor,” Kerner
wrote. “At this point we think she will try to push a
successor, but this is an evolving story.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  