-- Palm Oil Advances to One-Month High as Floods Threaten Harvests
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2011-12-28T10:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/palm-oil-advances-to-one-month-high-as-floods-threaten-harvests.html
Palm oil  climbed to the highest
level in more than a month on concern that rains in Indonesia
and Malaysia, the biggest growers, will disrupt harvests and as
dry weather threatened to trim soybean crops in South America.  The March-delivery contract advanced 0.8 percent to close
at 3,185 ringgit ($1,006) per metric ton on the Malaysia
Derivatives Exchange, the highest since Nov. 21. Futures have
plunged 16 percent this year, heading for the first annual loss
since 2008.  Intermittent to occasionally heavy rains may continue until
tomorrow in the state of Sabah, which could cause floods in low-
lying areas, the  Malaysian Meteorological Department  said on its
website. Rain is also expected in Sarawak, Johor and Pahang, the
forecaster said. The four states account for about 75 percent of
total oil palm planted area in  Malaysia , according to  data  from
the nation’s palm oil board.  “A lot of the upward pressure on price has to do with the
weather concerns and the upside pressure coming from soybean
prices,” John Rachmat, an analyst with the Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc., said by phone from  Singapore  today.  Soybeans jumped the most in 11 weeks yesterday on
speculation that adverse weather may reduce output in South
America, bolstering demand for U.S. supplies.  March-delivery soybeans climbed 3.2 percent to $12.095 a
bushel yesterday on the Chicago Board of Trade, the biggest
advance since Oct. 11. Futures traded 0.7 percent lower at
$12.01 today.  Dry Weather  About 50 percent of the soybean and corn crops in  Argentina 
will be dry in the next 10 days after weekend rain stayed north
of the main growing regions, Commodity Weather Group LLC said in
a report yesterday. As much as a third of  Brazil ’s crops face a
lack of rain, the forecaster said.  La Nina conditions and the resulting dry weather and higher
temperatures intensified during the weekend and little rain is
expected in the next two weeks, which may increase stress on
corn and soybean development, Fred Gesser, senior agricultural
meteorologist at Planalytics Inc. said yesterday.  Palm oil may average 3,000 ringgit a ton in 2012, more than
the 2,700 ringgit estimated previously, Alvin Tai, an analyst at
OSK Holdings Bhd., wrote in a report today.  Palm oil for delivery in May gained 1.3 percent to close at
7,986 yuan ($1,263) per ton on the  Dalian Commodity Exchange  and
 soybean oil  for September delivery rose 1.2 percent to end at
8,978 yuan a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  