-- Panama Debt Tops Emerging Markets in 2011
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2011-12-28T15:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/panama-bonds-top-emerging-market-returns-as-latin-america-becoming-haven.html
Dollar bonds of Latin American
nations from Panama to Uruguay provided the best returns in
 emerging markets  this year, a rally that may extend into 2012 as
lower debt and higher foreign reserves limit the effects of the
European debt crisis.  Panama’s  notes advanced 16 percent this year with annual
volatility of 4.5 through Dec. 27, giving them a risk-adjusted
return of 3.5 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. Uruguay’s notes returned 20 percent
with  volatility  of 6.3 for a 3.2 percent risk-adjusted return.
Seven of the top 10 bond markets were in Latin America, while
debt from Pakistan and  Egypt  fell the most, the data show.  Latin American nations won 12 credit-rating or outlook
upgrades as Panama’s $13.5 billion infrastructure investment
plan boosted growth, Colombia pledged to cut its budget gap in
half and Uruguay boosted foreign reserves 27 percent in a year.
Shrinking debt ratios and higher ratings make the region’s bonds
less susceptible to a slowing global economy while  Europe ’s
recession may keep Hungarian and Turkish bonds lagging behind,
according to Aviva Investors and Aberdeen Asset Management Plc.  “ Latin America , despite the global slowdown expectations
next year, is an area of relative calm,” said Jeremy Brewin,
who helps manage about $4 billion as head of emerging-market
debt at Aviva in  London . “It feels like a safe haven.”  Stocks Plunge  The region’s bonds gained 13 percent this year on average,
outpacing the 2.1 percent advance in emerging Europe and 8.7
percent increase in  Asia , according to  JPMorgan’s EMBI Global
Index . Latin American  bond yields  fell 45 basis points, or 0.45
percentage point, on average to 6.53.  Their return to volatility ratio was 2.3 percent, compared
with 0.3 percent in developing European nations and 1.7 percent
in Asia. The same risk-adjusted return ratio for Latin America
debt was 2 percent in 2010 and 3.2 percent in 2009.  Dollar debt handed investors the highest returns with the
smallest price swings among developing-country assets this year.
 Dollar bonds  gained an average 8.2 percent with volatility of
4.8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and JPMorgan.
 Emerging-market stocks (MXEF)  lost 20 percent with volatility of 23,
while local-currency bonds lost 1.1 percent in dollar terms with
volatility of 11, according to Bloomberg, JPMorgan and MSCI Inc.
data.  Debt Reduction  Latin America is the only region that has reduced
government debt as a percentage of gross domestic product in the
past two years as countries including  Brazil  cut fiscal
stimulus to contain inflation after economic growth quickened.
Gross debt declined on average to 50 percent of GDP from 51
percent in 2009, according to the  International Monetary Fund .
Eastern Europe’s debt-to-GDP rose to 46.7 percent from 45.4
percent while Asia’s climbed to 35 percent from 31 percent.  Brazil’s debt equaled 65 percent of GDP, down from 68
percent in 2009, according to the IMF, as President Dilma Rousseff cut 50 billion reais ($27 billion) from this year’s
budget to help the central bank rein in the fastest inflation in
six years. Hungary’s ratio rose to 80 percent from 78 percent in
2009 as slower growth reduced revenue, according to the Economy
Ministry. Poland’s increased to 56 percent of GDP from 51
percent, the IMF data shows.  Latin America’s foreign-currency reserves are set to
increase 18 percent this year to a record $772 billion, compared
with an increase of 13 percent in Eastern Europe, including
 Russia , according to the IMF.  Chile  Upgrade  Improved credit ratings have allowed Latin America’s debt
to benefit the most from a rally in U.S. Treasuries, the
benchmark for emerging-market assets, as investors shun riskier
securities in Eastern Europe, according to Viktor Szabo, who
helps manage about $7 billion in emerging-market debt at
Aberdeen in London.  Colombia  won an investment grade rating from
all three major rating companies this year while Chile was
raised by  Fitch Ratings  in February to A+, the fifth-highest
level.  “The tendency is for Latin America to continue to
improve,” said Szabo, who has an overweight position in Latin
America debt and underweight in European securities. “There
will be more capital flight from Eastern Europe to Latin
America.”  Paul McNamara , who oversees $7 billion at GAM Investment
Management, said Eastern Europe’s higher yields will make
countries such as Poland more attractive than Brazil next year
as European policy makers move to contain the debt crisis.  ‘Cheap’ Europe  At 4.87 percent, yields on Poland’s dollar bonds due in
2021 were 148 basis points higher than similar-maturity
Brazilian notes. The gap has increased 87 basis points since
April, when Poland issued the bonds. Poland is rated A- at S&P,
two steps above Brazil’s BBB rating.  “You don’t get a lot of upside in Latin American credit,”
McNamara said in a telephone interview from London. “It’s time
to start to look at central and Eastern Europe. That’s what
looks cheap. Europe will have a pretty nasty recession, but we
don’t get a breakup of the euro zone.”  Panama ’s dollar borrowing costs fell 107 basis points to
4.17 percent this year, compared with an average decline of 10
basis points among emerging markets, according to JPMorgan
indexes.  The $44-billion economy is likely to grow 10 percent this
year, the fastest pace since 2008, Finance Minister Frank De Lima said on Nov. 30, fueled in part by an expansion of the
Panama Canal. Moody’s raised in August the outlook on Panama’s
Baa3 credit rating to positive, citing the country’s “favorable
debt dynamics.” The government plans to cut debt to 40 percent
of GDP by 2014 from 43 percent this year.  Colombia’s Budget  Yields on Uruguay’s benchmark bonds due in 2022 fell 148
basis points this year and reached a record low of 3.81 percent
on Dec. 21, after stronger trade with Brazil, Latin America’s
largest economy, helped the government reduce debt to the
equivalent of 44 percent of GDP from 50 percent in 2008.  Colombia’s  bonds rose 14 percent this year, based on
JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Index, following a gain of 11 percent in
2010 and 17 percent in 2009. The nation’s debt handed investors
a risk-adjusted return of 2.6 percent in 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Colombia joined Peru, Panama, Chile, Brazil and  Mexico  as
investment-grade countries after lawmakers passed legislation
that targets a central government deficit of no more than 2.3
percent of GDP in 2014, down from an estimated 4 percent this
year.  Pakistan , Egypt  “This is an environment where fundamentals prevail,” said
Enzo Puntillo, who oversees $1.5 billion of assets as head of
emerging-market fixed income at Swiss & Global Asset Management
AG in Zurich. “These countries are all higher quality converged
or are converging to full investment-grade status. They are at
lower risk of Europe banking contagion risk.”  Pakistan’s bonds were among the worst performers in
emerging markets this year, falling 9.5 percent with volatility
of 8, for a risk-adjusted return of -1.2 percent, as floods and
terror attacks slowed foreign investment. Egypt’s debt was the
next worst, slumping 11 percent with swings of 11 for a risk-
adjusted return of -1 percent, as the popular revolt that
toppled President Hosni Mubarak in February shut the country out
of international bond markets.  Debt issued by Belize, a Central American country with a
population of fewer than 200,000, was the biggest decliner,
losing 24 percent with volatility of 16 for a risk-adjusted
return of -1.5 percent.  Scarcity Value  Latin American countries including Brazil are reducing
overseas debt sales as demand grows for their local bonds.
Brazil’s foreign-currency debt fell to 80.9 billion reais ($43.5
billion) in November from 204 billion reais at the end of 2004,
while its real-denominated bonds rose to 1.8 trillion reais from
810 billion reais, according to the Treasury.  Latin America’s foreign debt fell to 20 percent of GDP this
year from 37 percent in 2004 while Asia’s dropped to 15 percent
from 23 percent, according to the IMF data. Eastern Europe’s
foreign debt rose to 66 percent of GDP from 50 percent.  The cutback in Latin American overseas offerings is
creating a shortage of the region’s dollar bonds that’s helping
drive up their prices, said Carlos Legaspy, who manages about
$300 million at San Diego-based Precise Securities.  “Diminishing supply, good fundamentals, relatively good
liquidity with yields not that low,” Legaspy said. “All these
reasons have made it attractive for a fixed-income investor.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at   yxie6@bloomberg.net 
 Nathan Gill  in  Quito  at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  