-- Patriots and 49ers Have Eight Players Each Picked for NFL’s 2012 Pro Bowl
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2011-12-28T05:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/patriots-and-49ers-have-eight-players-each-picked-for-nfl-s-2012-pro-bowl.html
Green Bay  Packers quarterback  Aaron Rodgers  will lead the National Football Conference Pro Bowl team
against the  New England  Patriots’  Tom Brady  and the American
Football Conference.  The Pro Bowl will be played Jan. 29 at Aloha Stadium in
Honolulu, one week before the  National Football League ’s Super
Bowl in Indianapolis.  The Patriots and the  San Francisco  49ers each had eight Pro
Bowl selections this year, while the  Baltimore Ravens  and the
Super Bowl champion Packers each had seven selections.  In addition to Brady, the Patriots’ selections are Andre Carter,  Rob Gronkowski , Logan Mankins, Matthew Slater, Brian Waters,  Wes Welker  and Vince Wilfork.  The AFC roster has 13 first-time Pro Bowl picks, including
the Cincinnati Bengals’ A.J. Green -- the first rookie wide
receiver selected since Anquan Boldin in 2003. Fifteen NFC
players are competing in their first Pro Bowl, including three
from the Chicago Bears, Packers and 49ers.  Three  New York Jets  were chosen: cornerback  Darrelle Revis 
was selected as a starter, with center  Nick Mangold  and
offensive tackle D’Brickashaw Ferguson as alternates.  The  New York Giants  will send two players to the game, both
as alternates -- quarterback  Eli Manning  and defensive end  Jason Pierre-Paul .  “When you make it to the  Pro Bowl  it’s because your team,
the offensive line, my receivers are doing a great job
protecting me, getting open, making plays,” Manning said in a
statement. “Considering some of the other quarterbacks in the
NFC who have had outstanding seasons, I’m really thrilled and
truly honored to be named to the Pro Bowl team.”  The NFC defeated the AFC 55-41 last season in the Pro Bowl.
The 2012 game is the 42nd between the AFC and NFC All-Stars,
with the NFC leading the series 21-20.  Under terms of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, each
player on the winning Pro Bowl team receives $50,000, while each
player on the losing squad earns $25,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  