-- PBOC May Suspend Sale of China’s Three-Month Bills Tomorrow, Traders Say
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-28T09:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/pboc-may-suspend-sale-of-china-s-three-month-bills-tomorrow-traders-say.html
The People’s Bank of  China  may
suspend a scheduled sale of three-month  bills  tomorrow as banks
hoard cash before the New Year holidays, pushing money-market
rates to the highest since October.  The central bank didn’t gauge demand for the securities
this morning, according to two traders who declined to be
identified because the information isn’t public. The seven-day
 repurchase rate , a measure of interbank funding availability,
touched 5 percent today as lenders sought to boost capital to
meet year-end requirements.  “It’s probably a temporary suspension because of the cash
crunch,” said Liu Junyu, a bond analyst in Shenzhen at China
Merchants Bank Co., the nation’s sixth-biggest lender. “The
central bank may cut the reserve-requirement ratio before the
Lunar New Year to add liquidity to the financial system.”  The seven-day repurchase rate rose 35 basis points to 4.80
percent as of 4:30 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted
average rate compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.
It touched 5 percent today and yesterday, the highest level
since Oct. 31. China’s markets will be closed on Jan. 2 and Jan.
3 and for a week starting Jan. 23.  A total of 13 billion yuan ($2.1 billion) of central bank
bills and repurchase contracts will mature this week, down from
17 billion yuan last week, according to China Merchants’ Liu.
The bill redemption will rise to 51 billion yuan in the five
days starting Jan. 2, he said.  Yuan Steady  The monetary authority has sold three-month bills every
Thursday since the week-long National Day holiday in October. It
issued 1 billion yuan of the securities last week, when the
yield was unchanged at 3.1618 percent for a 17th sale.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, dropped two
basis points to 2.78 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The  yield  on the 3.44 percent government bonds due June
2016 dropped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.07
percent, according to the Interbank Funding Center.  The yuan traded at 6.3212 per dollar in Shanghai, little
changed from 6.3226 yesterday, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. It touched 6.3160 on Dec. 26, the
strongest level since the country unified the official and
market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  The central bank set the currency’s reference rate 0.01
percent higher at 6.3146, the strongest level since a dollar peg
was scrapped in July 2005.  The U.S. Treasury Department said yesterday it will seek
further appreciation of the yuan and called the currency
undervalued, while declining to brand China a manipulator of its
 exchange rate . The department, releasing its semi-annual report
to Congress on the currency policies of major trading partners,
said it will “closely monitor the pace” of yuan appreciation
and “press for policy changes that yield greater exchange-rate
flexibility.”  China will continue to push for the flexibility of the
yuan’s exchange rate, Hong Lei, a spokesman for the foreign
ministry, said at a press conference in Beijing yesterday.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Ven Ram, Sandy Hendry  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 