-- Pertamina Starts Construction of $1.4 Billion Cilacap Unit
-- B y   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i
-- 2011-12-28T12:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/pertamina-starts-building-1-4-billion-cilacap-fuel-unit-1-.html
PT Pertamina , Indonesia’s state oil
company, started construction of a $1.4 billion fuel-processing
unit at its Cilacap refinery in Central Java to reduce reliance
on imports of petroleum and petrochemical products.  The residual fluidized catalytic cracker will have a daily
capacity of 62,000 barrels and will start operations in the
third quarter of 2014, Pertamina President Director Karen Agustiawan said today at a press briefing in Cilacap.  Indonesia,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest crude oil producer, is
boosting investment in refineries to help cut the nation’s
dependence on imports of oil products. The country imports
diesel, gasoline and jet fuel because its refining capacity lags
behind  consumption .  “We still need imports of 12 million kiloliters of low-
octane gasoline and 3 million kiloliters of diesel oil
annually,” Agustiawan said. “It tends to increase in line with
growing consumption of fuel.”  The new unit, which will produce high-octane gasoline and
liquefied petroleum gas, will increase Pertamina’s annual
gasoline production by 1.9 million kiloliters, she said.  Cilacap , Pertamina’s largest oil refinery, has total daily
capacity of 348,000 barrels currently, Pertamina said in a
statement.  Pertamina produces 40.6 million kiloliters of petroleum
products including low-octane gasoline, diesel oil and kerosene
from its six refineries every year, the Jakarta-based company
said in a statement today.  Pertamina plans to boost output of oil products to 66.7
million kiloliters in 2018 by revamping existing plants and
building two refineries, Processing Director Edi Setianto said.  Indonesia ’s fuel consumption may grow 4 percent every year
from 56 million kiloliters currently, according to Pertamina.
The state-oil company supplies around 73 percent of the
country’s total fuel consumption.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net . 