-- Peru Sol Falls as ECB Loan Concern Weakens Emerging Currencies
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2011-12-28T20:31:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/peru-sol-falls-as-ecb-loan-concern-weakens-emerging-currencies.html
The Peruvian sol weakened for a
second day amid a sell-off in emerging-market currencies as
concern about the health of European banks sapped demand for
higher-yielding assets.  The currency slipped 0.1 percent for a second straight day,
declining to 2.6973 per  U.S. dollar  at the close of trading in
 Lima , from 2.695 yesterday, according to prices from Deutsche
Bank AG’s Peruvian unit. The Bloomberg JPMorgan Latin American
Currency Index  fell  0.2 percent.  Of 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, 17
weakened against the dollar today after a surge in the  European
Central Bank ’s balance sheet showed the extent of its efforts
last week to keep money flowing among European lenders. The sol
reached 2.6925 per dollar on Dec. 23, the strongest since at
least 2008 as companies sold dollars to pay tax bills.  “In the last couple of days liquidity has been a factor
and so we have seen some erratic behavior, but the sol is
reflecting what is happening in regional currencies,” said
Benito Berber, a New York-based strategist at Nomura Holdings
Inc.  The central bank didn’t buy or sell any dollars today.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bonds due August 2020 rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 5.76 percent, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg.  Moody’s Investors Service today confirmed its credit rating
of  Peru  at Baa3, one level above junk, and reiterated that it
may upgrade it, saying the risk the government may hamper growth
has fallen since President Ollanta Humala took office four
months ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  