-- PetroChina Parent Signs Accord to Develop Afghanistan Oilfields
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2011-12-28T12:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/petrochina-parent-signs-accord-to-develop-afghanistan-oilfields.html
China  National Petroleum Corp., the
nation’s largest oil company, agreed to develop  Afghanistan ’s
 Amu Darya basin , a project the war-ravaged country's government 
estimates will yield about $7 billion in profits.  The project will have an initial investment of about $400
million, CNPC President Lu Gong Xun said after signing the
accord with Afghan Mines Minister Wahidullah Shahrani today in
Kabul. The contract will include exploration and extraction, and
the government will get 70 percent of the profit from selling
each barrel of oil, Shahrani said.  The deal will bolster China’s position as Afghanistan’s
largest foreign investor after Metallurgical Corp. of China won
the right in 2007 to develop the nation’s biggest copper deposit.
It will also reduce the oil import bill of President Hamid Karzai’s government, which spends about $3.5 billion to buy
almost all its fuel requirement from neighboring nations
including Uzbekistan and  Iran .  Chinese companies are also facing competition from  India ,
which is trying to increase investments to thwart nuclear-armed
 Pakistan ’s influence in Afghanistan. An Indian government-backed
group plans to spend $11 billion to mine the Hajigak iron ore
deposit west of Kabul, build a steel mill, a power plant and
transport links.  The three blocks of the Amu Darya basin, in the country’s
north, probably hold more than 87 million barrels of crude oil
reserves and the estimate may climb higher after re-exploration,
Shahrani said. The investment in the project will rise should
more reserves be discovered, Xun said.  Refinery, Royalty  PetroChina Co.’s parent won the auction in August after
offering to build a refinery and pay more royalty than rivals
from  Australia , the U.K., the U.S. and Pakistan. The refinery
will be completed in two years, Shahrani said. Afghanistan has
one oil-processing plant capable of making 500 metric tons of
fuels daily.  Northern Afghanistan may hold more than 1.6 billion barrels
of crude, 16 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and 500 million
barrels of natural gas liquids, according to the government.
Afghanistan will hold its next oilfield auction in February,
Abdul Jalil Jumriany, policy director at the mines ministry,
said in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  