-- Peugeot Joins Fiat in Sales Slump With Reliance on Europe: Cars
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2011-12-28T23:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/peugeot-joins-fiat-in-sales-slump-with-reliance-on-sluggish-europe-cars.html
A handful of people have shaken off
the wet snow and entered the Bilia car dealership in Stockholm.
They’re far outnumbered by the gleaming  Volvos (175) ,  Fords (F)  and
 Renaults. (RNO)  They’re not eager to strike a deal.  “The customers are hesitating more and the sales process
takes a longer time,” said Arne Ericsson, deputy regional chief
at Bilia Personbilar AB, the Nordic region’s largest dealership
chain, adding that orders started slipping in mid-November.  Much of the region’s auto market is faring even worse than
in relatively healthy Sweden. European car sales will fall about
4 percent to approximately 13 million vehicles in 2012 from this
year’s estimated 13.5 million, PricewaterhouseCoopers forecasts.
It would be the fifth consecutive decline from the 2007 peak of
about 16 million cars.  Citigroup Inc. predicts a European recession in which the
economy shrinks 1.2 percent next year, while the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development last month warned that
the region poses “serious downside risks” to global growth.
 PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Renault SA and  Fiat SpA (F)  will suffer most
because of their high reliance on European sales, said  Arndt Ellinghorst , a London-based analyst with Credit Suisse.  Peugeot generated 73 percent of revenue in Western Europe
last year, while Renault and Fiat earned 70 percent and 54
percent of their sales on the continent, respectively, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Most at Risk  “Peugeot and Fiat are probably most at risk” in 2012,
Ellinghorst, said. “They’re just too exposed to European
markets, they don’t have the strongest product momentum, and
their balance sheets are already stretched.”  Peugeot has plunged 57 percent this year, Fiat 47 percent
and Renault 41 percent, underperforming the 14 percent decline
for the  Bloomberg European 500 Index. (BE500)   American and Asian carmakers are also taking a hit in the
region.  General Motors Co. (GM)  will lose money in Europe this year,
the company said last month after assurances earlier in the year
that it would break even. Ford Motor Co. reported a $306 million
operating loss in the third quarter in the region, even as it
increased market share.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s European deliveries
through November are down 8 percent to 505,688 vehicles.  European Sales  European sales at Peugeot, Europe’s second-biggest carmaker
after  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , fell 13 percent last month. The company’s
automotive division will lose more in the second half than what
it earned in the first half, when it posted an operating profit
of 405 million euros ($523 million), Chief Executive Officer
Philippe Varin said Dec. 14.  The Paris-based company could cut as many as 6,800 jobs,
including temporary workers and staff working for contractors.  Renault, France’s second-biggest carmaker, could delay
investment projects and is reducing inventories to conserve
cash.  “These last weeks, we are back to a trend which is very,
very similar to the one we had in 2008,” Chief Operating
Officer  Carlos Tavares  said in an interview Dec. 16. “It’s a
serious, serious situation.”  Renault is “much better” prepared for the slowdown than
it was three years ago because of lower debt and fewer vehicles
in stock, Tavares said. The company, which is 15 percent owned
by the French government, will avoid firing employees, he said.  Euro Crisis  Car sales in France will suffer as banks tighten lending,
said  Francisco Carvalho , a London-based analyst at IHS
Automotive.  “French banks may be hit hard from the euro crisis, as
they have a lot of exposure to southern European debt,”
Carvalho said. “Consequently, credit availability for the car
market will go down in France.”  Fiat is working to stem an increase in debt as the Italian
car market approaches a 30-year low in sales. The company could
revise its operating profit targets for 2012 because of falling
demand, Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said Dec. 14,
adding that the U.S. and  South America  will help “absorb a
slowdown of European markets.”  Fiat increased its stake in Chrysler Group LLC, the third-
largest U.S. automaker, to 53.5 percent in July, helping reduce
the Turin, Italy-based company’s dependence on  Europe . U.S.
sales at Chrysler, which also makes Dodge and Jeep brand
vehicles, are up 25 percent through November. Fiat is Brazil’s
biggest carmaker.  Slumping Confidence  Consumer confidence  in Europe dropped this month to its
lowest level in more than two years, and manufacturing and
services output contracted for a fourth month.  In Germany, Europe’s largest economy, incentives to
encourage car purchases have risen lately. The average dealer’s
incentive among the major brands rose to 11.1 percent in
November from 10.5 percent in June, led by Peugeot, Renault and
Fiat, according to trade publication Autohaus PulsSchlag.  When all incentives in Germany are counted, such as rebates
offered by Internet dealers, the average approaches 18 percent,
the highest level in five years and up from 15 percent a year
ago, said  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center for
Automotive Research at the University of Duisburg-Essen.  “Carmakers need a lot of incentives to convince customers
at the moment, and that will not improve in the first half of
next year,” Dudenhoeffer said.  VW Models  VW has managed to buck the downward trend in the overall
European market on the strength of new models. Europe’s largest
carmaker has increased 11-month sales in the region 7.7 percent.
Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW, which also owns the  Audi (NSU) , Skoda and
Seat brands, introduced a new version of the Passat mid-sized
car and a revamped Audi A6 sedan this year.  The volume brands will continue to underperform premium
makers  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , Audi and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
Mercedes-Benz in 2012, said Richard Hanna, head of
PricewaterhouseCoopers’ automotive team.  While the luxury-car manufacturers will be buoyed by
corporate car spending, the mass makers will suffer after
governments in 2010 ended subsidies encouraging purchases of
more fuel-efficient cars put in place to help the auto industry
during the 2009 recession, Hanna said.  In the U.K., Google searches for buying new cars dropped by
half in the fourth quarter from the same period last year, said
Simon Empson, managing director of Broadspeed.com, which
connects customers with dealers. The level of online searches is
“a strong indicator” of sales, he said.  “At the moment there’s absolutely no good news out
there,” Empson said. “People are either scared of losing their
job or about the level of their income.”  Arne Ericsson, the dealer executive in  Stockholm , said his
company found a sales opportunity in last week’s bankruptcy
declaration by  Saab Automobile , which may force it out of
business. The dealer plans to mail Saab owners in Sweden offers
that include paying them higher-than-normal amounts for the
Saabs they trade in when they buy a new vehicle.  “Times are getting tougher, and this is a chance for some
extra business,” Ericsson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 Cthomas16@bloomberg.net  