-- Philippine Peso Falls for a Third Day on Global Growth Concern
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2011-12-28T09:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/philippine-peso-falls-for-a-third-day-on-global-growth-concern.html
The Philippine peso fell for a third
day, the longest losing streak in a month, on speculation demand
for emerging-market assets will weaken as the global economy
cools. Bonds gained.  The MSCI  Asia-Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks dropped the most in
more than a week as reports showed  Japan ’s industrial output
declined in November while South Korean manufacturers’
confidence fell to a 30-month low. Yields on 10-year Philippine
bonds dropped to the lowest level in a week after the central
bank said yesterday inflation remains manageable.  “Economic indicators out of  Asia  are starting to show
weakness and investors are seeking refuge in the  U.S. dollar ,”
said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist in Manila at
Banco de Oro Unibank Inc., the Philippines’ largest lender.
“Bond yields may move down as we have stable macroeconomic
conditions that can support a low-interest rate environment.”  The peso lost 0.3 percent to 43.975 per dollar as of 3:59
p.m. in  Manila , according to Tullett Prebon Plc. This week’s
three-day decline is the longest losing streak since Nov. 25.  The yield on the government’s 6.5 percent bonds due April
2021 fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.125
percent, according to Tradition Financial Services. That is the
lowest level since Dec. 21.  Annual inflation is forecast to be within 4 percent to 4.9
percent in December, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said
yesterday, using 2000 as base year. Consumer prices rose 4.7
percent in November.  “The outlook for inflation remains manageable as we
continue to see within-target inflation over the policy
horizon,” Tetangco said. The central bank “remains watchful of
global developments to ensure that our policy settings remain
appropriate,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  