-- Putin Promises Fair Presidential Election as ‘New Year’s Gift’ for Russia
-- B y   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2011-12-28T13:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/putin-promises-fair-presidential-election-as-new-year-s-gift-for-russia.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  promised fair presidential elections in March as a poll
showed that 44 percent of people support recent protests over
alleged voter fraud.  “Honest presidential elections in 2012,” Putin told
reporters in Moscow today, when asked what he can offer to
Russians as a New Year’s gift. The premier said he was ready for
dialogue with the country’s opposition groups, though they need
to articulate a coherent platform.  Putin, 59, is facing the biggest demonstrations since he
came to power more than a decade ago over accusations of ballot-
rigging in Dec. 4 parliamentary elections. He’s seeking to
return to the presidency in March 4 polls after pushing aside
his protege, President  Dmitry Medvedev .  An opinion poll published today by the Moscow-based Levada
Center showed that 44 percent of Russians support demonstrations
over voter fraud, with 41 percent opposed.  According to the  survey  of 1,600 people from Dec. 16-20, 54
percent of Russians believe elections have become an instrument
for the bureaucracy to remain in power, with 24 percent
disagreeing. The poll had a margin of error of 3.4 percentage
points.  Putin said yesterday he doesn’t need “any manipulation”
to win the presidential election as he maintained his refusal to
review this month’s disputed parliamentary ballot.  “I want to rely on the will of the people,” Putin said at
a meeting with his All-Russia People’s Front in Moscow.
“Otherwise it doesn’t make sense.”  The premier’s opponents are demanding that the
parliamentary elections be held again and the March presidential
poll delayed to ensure it is taking place under democratic
rules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anton Doroshev in Moscow at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Abelsky at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net  