-- Putin’s Goal of Benchmark Urals Seen in Rotterdam Terminal Tanks: Freight
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2011-12-29T11:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/putin-s-goal-of-benchmark-urals-seen-in-rotterdam-terminal-tanks-freight.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  has
been calling for Russia, the world’s largest oil producer, to
narrow the  price gap (EUCSURNW)  between its Urals export crude and the
Brent benchmark since 2005. A $1 billion terminal in Rotterdam
may help achieve that goal.  Summa Group, a shareholder in Russia’s biggest oil-export
terminals, in Novorossiysk and Primorsk, is investing in a 3
million-cubic-meter facility. It will expand liquids capacity at
Europe’s largest port by about 10 percent, said Summa First Vice
President Alexander Vinokurov. Vitol Group, the world’s biggest
independent oil trader, is a partner in the project.  The Rotterdam terminal will create a European trading hub
for Urals crude, providing deliveries directly to the port and
contributing supply stability. Vinokurov said that will be a key
step for Urals in becoming an international benchmark, at a time
when the world’s most prominent benchmark,  Dated Brent (EUCRBRDT) , faces
declining output and supply disruptions.  “The physical market for Brent is narrowing and risks are
becoming too volatile,” Mikhail Temnichenko, a vice president
for the St. Petersburg International Mercantile Exchange, said
Dec. 26. “Urals is the most obvious alternative benchmark,
offering large, stable volumes from a variety of market
participants.”  The Rotterdam terminal is evidence that competition is
“heating up” as crude oil benchmarks evolve, Platts, the
energy-pricing division of New York-based  McGraw Hill Cos. (MHP) , said
in a November presentation. On Jan. 6 Platts will broaden the
base for Brent pricing by extending the length of time over
which cargoes are measured.  Joint Ownership  The terminal could help develop a futures market for Urals,
which is necessary to become a benchmark, said  Olivier Jakob ,
managing director at Petromatrix GmbH, a Zug, Switzerland-based
oil-market researcher.  “It makes sense to create a hub in Rotterdam for Russian
crude,” Jakob said by telephone yesterday. “We need to see who
has access to the barrels. If it’s like Cushing with lots of
participants, a market could develop in time,” he said,
referring to the delivery point for New York Mercantile Exchange
oil futures in  Oklahoma .  The terminal’s 3 million cubic-meter capacity is nine times
larger than that of an average supertanker, which would normally
haul more than 2 million barrels of cargo, according to data
from Redhill, England-based IHS Fairplay. Two thirds of the
volume will be for crude and the rest will hold oil products,
Vinokurov said.  Export Volumes  The hub may also help ensure export volumes from the
Primorsk terminal, owned by  Novorossiysk Commercial Sea Port (NMTP) , as
Russian oil pipeline operator  OAO Transneft (TRNFP)  works to open a new
facility on the  Baltic Sea , said Denis Vorchik, an analyst at
UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow. Transneft and Summa jointly
own 50.1 percent of Novorossiysk, which rose 0.4 percent to 3
rubles at yesterday’s close, the highest level in a week.  “There are not many opportunities to enter the European
market and given  Russia  is a major crude exporter to that
market, it makes sense,” Mikhail Ganelin, an analyst at Troika
Dialog in Moscow, said Dec. 26.  Under an “ambitious” schedule, the terminal may be
commissioned by 2013 or 2014, earlier than the initially planned
2015 deadline, Vinokurov said in a Dec. 16 interview.  Russia is the biggest supplier of oil to the European
Union. Urals, a blend of crudes from the Volga region and
western Siberia, accounts for about 80 percent of Russia’s 5.6
million barrels a day of  exports (RUCUCRUD) .  Output of the crudes used to price Dated Brent, the
benchmark for more than half of the world’s oil including Urals,
has fallen from 1.5 million barrels a day in December 2007 to
1.1 million barrels this month, according to a Bloomberg
assessment of  loading schedules (LOSDBFOT) .  Longer Period  Platts is  considering  lengthening the cargo-measuring
period even further in 2015 or 2016 and may include more grades
of crude into its Brent assessment, according to a Sept. 16
statement. The assessment is based on a blend of several types
of crude pumped in the  North Sea , including Brent, Forties,
Oseberg and Ekofisk.  The Brent benchmark has required regular adjustments since
production went into decline in the 1990s. Forties and Oseberg
crude were added to the  benchmark (EUCRBRDT)  in 2002 and Ekofisk in 2007.  Very Unfair  Urals in northwest  Europe  has had an average  discount (EUCSURNW)  to
Brent of $1.79 over the past two decades. Putin called the gap
“very unfair” in an address when he was president in 2005. In
response, the government introduced a national oil exchange and
brand, calling it Russian export-blend crude oil, or Rebco.  The Russian crude traded at a 40-cent premium to Brent, its
biggest ever, on Dec. 1 to Dec. 6 as the EU weighed tougher
sanctions against  Iran . It was at a $1.10 discount today.  Summa expects the Rotterdam facility to add stability to
Urals supplies by creating accessible volumes outside Russia.
This may help create a market for the Urals forward market and
futures contracts, Temnichenko said by phone in Moscow.  “Urals will be more visible to traders and this could
contribute to it becoming a price indicator,” Temnichenko said.  Futures contracts for Urals have been sold on the Nymex,
the world’s largest energy futures marketplace, since October
2006 under Rebco name. Allan Schoenberg, a spokesman for Nymex
parent  CME Group Inc. (CME) , said no Rebco contracts have traded in
the past two years.  Reduced Deliveries  Transneft and state-controlled gas export monopoly  OAO
Gazprom (GAZP)  have cut energy deliveries to neighboring transit
countries during supply and transportation pricing disputes,
disrupting shipments to Europe.  Gazprom has twice in the past six years cut gas deliveries
to Ukraine on New Year’s Day. Transneft halted oil deliveries to
Belarus for almost a month on Jan. 1, rerouting about 650,000
metric tons.  Transneft built the Baltic Pipeline System-2 oil link to
the Gulf of  Finland  as Russia expands transportation capacity
away from transit countries.  “This Rotterdam terminal could ensure volumes from
Primorsk” in the face of competition from the new Ust-Luga
crude terminal, UralSib’s Vorchik said by phone Dec. 26. Ust-
Luga has been delayed for as much as three months from its
expected Dec. 1 start because of engineering difficulties,
Transneft said in last month.  Ust-Luga is being built by Vitol’s competitor, Gunvor Group
Ltd., at the end of Transneft’s Baltic Pipeline System-2 oil
link. The pipeline has a capacity of 38 million metric tons a
year, or 451,000 barrels a day, while Primorsk handles about 70
million metric tons of crude a year.  Floating Pipeline  Buyers will be able to purchase Urals to be loaded in
Rotterdam using a “floating pipeline” that relies on
icebreaking shuttle tankers shipping crude from Primorsk on the
Baltic Sea, Vinokurov said.  Urals in Rotterdam could become a benchmark with the
development of forward and futures markets, Summa said in an
Oct. 20 presentation.  “A case could be made for it to be a benchmark if there
was a stable supply in the heart of Europe,” Vinokurov said.
“We have an aggressive schedule.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  