-- Qatar, Abu Dhabi Appeal Grows for Banks
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2011-12-28T05:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/qatar-abu-dhabi-appeal-grow-as-banks-seek-security-arab-credit.html
Qatar Petroleum raised the  Middle
East ’s biggest syndicated loan this year as banks lend to state-
backed projects after the region’s political unrest and  Europe ’s
debt crisis reduced borrowing.  The state-run energy company said Dec. 13 it completed the
financing of the Barzan Gas Project with a $7.2 billion
syndicated loan. Qatar, holder of the world’s third-largest
natural gas reserves, is stepping up the pace of infrastructure
developments as it prepares to host the 2022 soccer  World Cup .  Borrowers backed by oil- and gas-rich Persian Gulf emirates
such as Qatar and Abu Dhabi have secured loans even as
syndicated lending in the Middle East and North Africa fell 47
percent, excluding most of the Barzan loan. Qatar and Abu Dhabi
have the third-highest investment grade ratings at  Standard &
Poor’s . The economy of Qatar, the region’s second-biggest issuer
of dollar bonds this year, will grow 19 percent in 2011, the
International Monetary Fund forecasts.  “Everyone is desperate to lend to anyone who definitely is
going to pay them back,” Akber Khan, a director at Al Rayan
Investment in the Qatari capital Doha, said by phone Dec. 23.
“It’s not so much about what is the right rate to lend at. The
question is who can you lend to and sleep comfortably at
night.”  Credit Worthy  Europe’s debt crisis started in October 2009 with  Greece ’s
admission it had underestimated its  budget deficit . Syndicated
lending in the Middle East and North Africa dropped to $32.4
billion this year from $61.3 billion in 2010, data compiled by
Bloomberg showed. It reached a record $109.6 billion in 2007.  Middle East lenders, including National Bank of Egypt and
 Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , accounted for five of this year’s top 10
mandated banks in the region. That’s up from three in the
previous two years.  France ’s BNP Paribas SA, ranked sixth last
year, and Credit Agricole SA, ranked fourth in 2009, dropped off
the list as Europe’s debt crisis forced them to scale back their
regional business.  The $10.3 billion Barzan project is Qatar’s most-expensive
energy project since Royal Dutch Shell Plc announced the Pearl
gas-to-liquids plant, now budgeted at $19 billion, in 2006.
Qatar will fund the project, 7 percent owned by  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) , with as much as 30 percent equity, with banks and export
credit agencies from  Japan ,  Korea  and  Italy  providing debt,
 Qatar Petroleum  said in the Dec. 13 statement.  Interest in Barzan is “unsurprising if you look at the
credit worthiness of the borrower and Qatar’s credit default
swaps,” said Al Rayan’s Khan. “It has been one of the better
performing CDS globally in 2011.” Five-year credit default
swaps for the Gulf state have fallen nine basis points from this
year’s peak on Oct. 4 to 127.4 on Dec. 26, CMA data show.  Better Positioned  Qatar Petroleum will pay an  interest rate  of 2.19
percentage points over Libor for $3.34 billion in bank loans to
help finance the Barzan natural-gas project, Finance Director
Abdul Rahman Al Shaibi said Dec. 20.  Qatari borrowers are better positioned than their
counterparts in the  United Arab Emirates , where banks pay about
30 percent more to borrow funds on the interbank market. The
U.A.E.’s three-month interbank lending rate was at about 1.52
percent yesterday, compared with 1.17 percent in Qatar,
Bloomberg data show.  “The cost of funding in the U.A.E. is higher, so their
lending has to be higher than that,” said Mohammed Ali Yasin,
chief investment officer at Capm Investment PJSC in  Abu Dhabi .  U.A.E. Pays More  Emirates Aluminium Co.’s shareholders, Mubadala Development
Co. of Abu Dhabi and Dubai Aluminium, are likely to pay a higher
interest rate for loans than the Barzan project, Yasin said by
phone. “But banks are looking for opportunities to fund
government projects, as they are not considered a risk, so such
projects shouldn’t have problems getting funding.”  Emirates Aluminium may seek to borrow two thirds of the
funds needed for a $4.5 billion Abu Dhabi aluminum smelter
expansion, two people with knowledge of the matter said on Dec.
22. Export credit agencies and commercial banks will split
funding for the smelter expansion, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the transaction hasn’t been finalized.  The U.A.E.’s riskier credit profile compared with Qatar’s
is linked to Dubai, where credit risk this year surged to the
third-highest in the region after  Egypt  and Lebanon. Dubai,
which roiled global markets in 2009 as it sought to renegotiate
terms on about $25 billion in debt, isn’t rated.  The cost of insuring  Dubai’s debt  against default rose 68
basis points since the end of October to 453 on Dec. 26,
according to data provider CMA. Abu Dhabi’s CDS were at 128
points, up 34 basis points this year, according to CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Tuttle in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  