-- Red Sox Acquire Relief Pitcher Bailey from Athletics in Five-Player Trade
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2011-12-29T05:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/red-sox-acquire-relief-pitcher-bailey-from-athletics-in-five-player-trade.html
The  Boston Red Sox  filled the hole
left in their bullpen by the departure of  Jonathan Papelbon ,
acquiring right-handed reliever  Andrew Bailey  from the Oakland
Athletics as part of a five-player trade.  The Red Sox also will get outfielder Ryan Sweeney, and the
A’s will receive outfielder Josh Reddick and minor leaguers Raul
Alcantara, a right-handed pitcher, and first baseman Miles Head.  “Andrew’s a proven, top-quality closer in the American
League,” Boston General Manager  Ben Cherington  said in a
conference call last night with reporters. “He’s converted a
very high percentage of his opportunities.”  Bailey, 27, a two-time All-Star, had 75 saves in his three
seasons with Oakland. Bailey converted 24 of his 26 save
opportunities in 2011, a 92.3 percent success rate that was
second highest in the  American League .  Bailey is the third All-Star pitcher traded away by the A’s
this month. Oakland sent starter Trevor Cahill to the Arizona
Diamondbacks on Dec. 9 and dealt starter Gio Gonzalez to the
Washington Nationals on Dec. 23.  “It was a combination of getting back a major league-ready
position player and prospects who we really like that made this
a good option for us,” said David Forst, Oakland’s assistant
general manager.  The acquisition of Bailey probably means the Red Sox will
move Daniel Bard into the starting rotation. Bard has made 192
appearances in his three seasons with Boston, all in relief.  “Bard is going to prepare for spring training as a starter
and we want to give him every chance to do that,” Cherington
said. “We believe he can do it.”  Papelbon, 31, a four-time All-Star, had 219 saves in the
past seven seasons for the  Red Sox  before moving as a free agent
to the Philadelphia Phillies in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  