-- Red Farm Brings Pastrami Egg Rolls to West Village: Ryan Sutton
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2011-12-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/red-farm-brings-pastrami-egg-rolls-to-west-village-ryan-sutton.html
Red Farm is a Chinese restaurant
that fries up shrimp jalapeno poppers and pastrami egg rolls,
making you wonder whether it’s really a TGI Friday’s.  Those fusion follies taste like accidents from a shopping
mall food court. The pastrami has the greasiness and cardboard
flavor of a heat-lamp appetizer, while the bland, boring poppers
taste of supermarket shrimp.  Things don’t look promising. Then something odd happens.  You see Anne Burrell, an accomplished Italian chef, eating
away at this cramped little  West Village  spot.  You see Gramercy Tavern’s Danny Meyer, improbably, at a
packed communal table, while plebeians relax in small,
comfortable booths. He tweets: “Red Farm is even more than it’s
cracked up to be. A gift to  New Yorkers  who bemoan lack of
awesome Chinese.”  Then you order the jasmine chicken, a credible, $24 cousin
of Pekin Duck. Sweet smoke perfumes the moist fowl; remove the
crispy skin to enjoy it by itself.  Red Farm  is an ambitious work in progress, a frequently
maddening effort to refine Cantonese-American cuisine using
seasonal ingredients sourced from local purveyors.  Santa’s Rolls  The experiment comes courtesy of owner Ed Schoenfeld, a
Brooklyn guy who’s to blame for the pastrami egg rolls. With a
white beard and red glasses he looks like a well-groomed  Santa
Claus . He works the loud, crowded room and has said that Red
Farm is New York’s best Chinese restaurant. It’s not.  The wait for three is 90 minutes. No reservations.  Schoenfeld doesn’t aim for authenticity. Hence the duck
wrap: Buttery Indian-style flatbread with bits of fatty bird and
puckery apple, the classic sweet-sour-savory flavors of
Cantonese cooking, in a $12 taco.  It’s all affordable enough; Schoenfeld avoids the pricey
pitfalls of Shang and Wakiya, New York’s famously failed
attempts at high-end Chinese with their $16 coleslaws and hip
hotel locations. Most of Red Farm’s dishes are well below $30.  There are expensive exceptions. A $39 Creekstone rib eye,
ruined by a saccharine marinade. A $65 Dungeness crab is a lot
of work for just a little bit of flavor and stringy meat in a
bland sauce.  Fried Jerky  Crispy beef tastes like fried jerky coated with barbecue
sauce. Yuzu shrimp poorly mimics textured soy protein.  Chef Joe Ng is one of the city’s consummate practitioners
of dim sum, so order “Pac Man” dumplings ($12 for four). The
gossamer creations defy the laws of physics; the encased shrimp
manage to be shockingly hot yet barely cooked through.  Soup dumplings are also fine. Bite off the tips, inhale the
porky contents, then dip the remnants in chili sauce.  Few Chinese spots have as good a wine list. Two rieslings
by the glass, Salmon Run from  New York  and S.A. Prum from
 Germany , balance sugar and acid with aplomb. Drink them with
curried tofu. With your wok-seared Manila clams, a flowery
Gewurztraminer is the right call.  Oyster lovers will appreciate plump Kumamotos, with Meyer
lemon and yuzu standing in for mignonette. Lobster with chopped
pork and eggs ($36) could be consumed for breakfast every day.
Both dishes beg for Champagne, though the only bottle available
is Laurent Perrier Brut, not worth $100.  Ng doesn’t compete with Oriental Garden by offering steamed
bass with ginger scallion sauce, one of the city’s greatest
dishes. Instead, he fries the fish, delicately infusing it with
lemongrass -- a better than credible variation.  Then fried rice with dried scallops arrives with desiccated
grains and none of the deep, rich flavors it should boast. So
move onto diced lamb with broccoli and white asparagus. Finish
with rich chocolate pudding.
Rating: * 1/2  The Bloomberg Question  Price: Most dishes under $30.  Sound Level: Loud, often over 80.  Date Place: No.  Inside Tip: Go early or late for short waits.  Special feature: Tasty filet mignon sliders.  Back on My Own Dime? Yes, for the steamed dumplings.  Red Farm is at 529 Hudson Street. Information: +1-212-792-
9700 or  http://www.redfarmnyc.com .  
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to
converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak up, please. 61 to 65: Lean
in if you want to hear your date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one
another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn because you’re yelling. 76
to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 