-- Republicans, Lost in Moderation (Part 1): Geoffrey Kabaservice
-- B y   G e o f f r e y   K a b a s e r v i c e
-- 2011-12-28T00:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/republicans-lost-in-moderation-part-1-geoffrey-kabaservice.html
When Nelson Rockefeller dropped out
of the Republican presidential race in June 1964, Barry Goldwater was left with an apparently insurmountable delegate
lead and, almost certainly, the task of defeating incumbent
President  Lyndon Johnson .  Republican moderates were left with a question: Should they
continue to fight Goldwater and his conservative movement, which
they saw as threatening not only the nation’s progress, but also
the future of their party?  Those hoping to witness the birth of an anti-Goldwater
front found the moderates in disarray over their dilemma. Just a
few weeks after Rockefeller’s withdrawal, however, this
situation changed. On June 19, Goldwater, an Arizona senator,
was one of only six Republicans to join segregationist Democrats
in  voting against  the Civil Rights Act of 1964. In opposing the
Civil Rights Act, Goldwater was setting his standard against not
only one of the most significant pieces of legislation in the
20th century, but also one of the greatest achievements of the
Republican Party.  Republican Glory Lost  The credit -- even the glory -- that the Republicans should
have enjoyed for their support for the Civil Rights Act was
effectively negated by the stance of the party’s presumptive
presidential nominee. As his defenders have tirelessly
explained, Goldwater was not personally a racist. He had
supported the  Arizona  NAACP, helped to desegregate the Arizona
National Guard, and so forth. But, in his 1960 manifesto,
“Conscience of a Conservative,” the candidate had declared that
he was “not impressed by the claim that the  Supreme Court ’s
decision on school integration is the law of the land.” He added
that the federal government had no role to play in enforcing the
rights of blacks living under Jim Crow, which was exactly what
white supremacists in the South wanted to hear.  Goldwater’s vote against the Civil Rights Act enraged
millions of moderate Republicans who saw it as a betrayal of the
party’s heritage. One of those in a position to do something
about it was  Pennsylvania ’s governor,  William Warren Scranton .
Moderates had looked toward Scranton at the start of the 1964
presidential race. Slim and handsome, born within two months of
 John Kennedy , Scranton projected a Kennedyesque image of charm,
cool, urbanity and elegance.  But Scranton also had experience in business and civic
leadership and was well versed in foreign relations. Elected to
Congress in 1960 and then as governor in 1962, he was an
independent-minded supporter of foreign aid, the  Peace Corps ,
civil rights and the Kennedy administration’s stimulus plan for
private businesses in depressed urban and rural areas. He
described himself as “a liberal on civil rights, a conservative
on fiscal policy and an internationalist on foreign affairs.”  The problem, at least for moderates who hoped Scranton
would oppose Goldwater, was that he didn’t particularly want to
be president. As journalist Theodore H. White perceived,
Scranton was “a man interested in government -- not politics. He
lacks the raw appetite for power of more elemental men.”  Two principal factors changed Scranton’s mind about
running. The first was Goldwater’s vote against the Civil Rights
Act. The second was that Scranton himself was deluged with pleas
to run from Republican politicians who feared that Goldwater’s
nomination would devastate hundreds of local Republican
organizations and candidates. Moderates believed that Scranton’s
candidacy would reassure the nation that not all Republicans had
given in to extremism.  ‘Reactionary and Heartless’  In his campaign, Scranton attacked the “small but vocal
minority [that] too often has made our party sound naive,
irresponsible, reactionary and heartless.” He lambasted
Goldwater’s calls to make Social Security voluntary, drop atomic
bombs in  Asia , break diplomatic relations with the  Soviet Union 
and repeal the income tax laws. “ Barry Goldwater  is not a true
conservative,” insisted one of Scranton’s advertisements, “he is
an extremist. He has no positive program.”  Scranton’s poll numbers moved sharply upward. A Gallup poll
in late June showed that the Pennsylvania governor had overtaken
Goldwater as the choice of Republican voters, with 55 percent
for Scranton as opposed to only 34 percent for Goldwater and 11
percent undecided. Independents were almost three times as
likely to vote for Scranton as for Goldwater.  But it was too late. Goldwater’s delegates from the South
and West and even some Northern states were a new breed,
ideologically committed and immune to the arguments about the
greater good of the party. Goldwater boasted that his “hard
core” of some 425 delegates would “stay right to the end and
march out the back of this convention if they don’t get what
they want. This is how hard these people are.”  And so on July 13 the miserably divided  Republican Party 
lurched into  its convention  at the Cow Palace in  San Francisco .
The first indication of the kind of gathering it would be had
come with the preconvention negotiations over the party
platform. Moderates and liberals assumed that the platform would
be a consensus document much like the 1960 platform. But the
Goldwater forces denied the Scranton camp any opening by
rejecting its every proposal. “These people were filled with
this Puritan, almost religious fervor, that they were in sole
possession of the truth, that anyone else was an infidel,” said
Senator Hugh Scott, a supporter of his fellow Pennsylvanian.  Goldwater’s supporters also trounced the moderates on the
convention floor, where  a speech by Rockefeller  brought a storm
of boos, chants, jeers, hisses and catcalls. “The venom of the
booing and the hatred in people’s eyes really was quite
stunning,” Rockefeller assistant Doug Bailey said.  Goldwater’s Famous Speech  Every rule of political logic would have compelled
Goldwater to make peace with the moderates. Yet Goldwater was
unusually thin-skinned for a politician, and, in  his acceptance
speech , let loose with a ringing, too-memorable pronouncement
that threw the convention into pandemonium: “I would remind you
that extremism in the defense of liberty is no vice. And let me
remind you also that moderation in the pursuit of justice is no
virtue.” Goldwater had not only failed to bind up the party’s
wounds, he had “opened new wounds and then rubbed salt in them,”
as  Richard Nixon  put it.  As anticipated, Goldwater was buried in a Johnson
landslide, carrying only five of the Deep South states and his
home state of Arizona. He trailed Johnson by 16 million votes,
and the 27 million votes he received were almost 7 million fewer
than Nixon had received four years earlier. The Republicans shed
two seats in the Senate -- fewer than anticipated -- but dropped
38 seats in the House, reducing Republican representation to its
lowest level since 1936. The progressive Republican Ripon
Society calculated that in the state legislatures, the party
lost some 540 members, again reducing Republican numbers to
levels not seen since the Depression.  In the aftermath, commentators seriously debated whether
the Republicans might follow the Whigs into extinction.
Emancipated from the restraint of conservative Southern
Democrats, Johnson would have free rein to pass what amounted to
a second New Deal.  The magnitude of Goldwater’s defeat chastened the
conservative movement. Politicians like  Ronald Reagan  and
intellectuals like William F. Buckley Jr. eventually came to
realize that the enraged nature of the Goldwater campaign -- its
embrace of extremism and unpopular positions, its nihilistic
antagonism toward potential allies -- was a formula for defeat.
It would be 40 years before a Republican presidential nominee
would again be so dismissive of moderates.  (Geoffrey Kabaservice is the author of “The Guardians:
Kingman Brewster, His Circle, and the Rise of the Liberal
Establishment.” This is the first of two excerpts from his
forthcoming book, “Rule and Ruin: The Downfall of Moderation and
the Destruction of the Republican Party, From Eisenhower to the
 Tea Party .” to be published Jan. 4 by  Oxford University Press .
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this article:
Geoffrey Kabaservice at  Geoffrey.Kabaservice@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 