-- Richter Tops Hot Artists as New Buyers Boost $1.7 Billion Sales
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2011-12-28T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/richter-tops-hot-artists-as-2011-sales-surge-to-1-7-billion-on-new-buyers.html
The contemporary-art market surged
by 35 percent in 2011’s auctions as an influx of wealthy buyers
sought refuge from financial turmoil.  Sotheby’s (BID)  and Christie’s International raised a combined
total of $1.7 billion from evening sales, according to
calculations by Bloomberg News. Collectors sought proven artists
for investment, led by Germany’s  Gerhard Richter , 79.  While some prices are still below the highs of September
2008, when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed, buyers from
the U.S.,  Russia ,  Asia  and other emerging economies have been
investing in contemporary art.  “The art market is a place for new people these days,”
Christophe Van de Weghe, a New York-based dealer, said in an
interview. “There are Americans nobody has seen before who are
excited by this world and who want an alternative to shares. And
then there are buyers coming in from places like India and
 China . The collectors who bought 15 years ago aren’t prepared to
pay today’s higher prices.”  Sotheby’s and Christie’s made their combined total with
fees from 12 high-value contemporary art sales in  New York  and
London this year. In 2010, the equivalent evening auctions made
$1.2 billion, an increase from $482.3 million in 2009. The sales
reached a record $2.4 billion in 2007, fuelled by speculative
bidding for fashionable names such as  Damien Hirst ,  Jeff Koons 
and  Richard Prince .  Market Demand  “The market is hungry for great works at ‘masterpiece’
level,” the New York-based art adviser Mary Hoeveler said in an
interview. “There is tremendous wealth to buy them. New buyers
are also migrating to the contemporary market from other more
traditional art collecting fields. Demand for contemporary art
has increased exponentially.”  Sotheby’s raised $844.1 million from its evening auctions
in 2011, while Christie’s took $834.3 million. Equivalent
auctions in New York and London held by Phillips de Pury & Co.,
which has a reputation for offering pieces by emerging artists,
totaled $208.3 million, an increase of just $7 million on 2010,
according to Bloomberg calculations.  Classic contemporary works from long-established
collections attracted intense demand. Sotheby’s sale of 34
paintings by  Georg Baselitz ,  Sigmar Polke  and other German
artists belonging to Christian Graf Duerckheim-Ketelhodt,
chairman of the Cologne-based pharmaceutical company  Axiogenesis
AG (AI8) , raised 60.4 million pounds ($94.6 million) in London on June
29. The total with fees almost doubled the low estimate of 31.8
million pounds, based on hammer prices.  Still Sells  On Nov. 9 in New York, Sotheby’s offered the Clyfford Still
abstract ”1949-A-No.1” valued at $25 million to $35 million.
One of four works by the abstract expressionist that were
consigned by the City of Denver, it was bought by a telephone
bidder for a record $61.7 million. Before the auction, would-be
bidders had to file past protesters shouting ”shame on you!”  The previous evening at Christie’s, a 1961 Roy Lichtenstein
painting from the collection of Courtney Ross, the widow of
former Time Warner Chief Executive Officer Steven J. Ross,
fetched a record $43.2 million. “I Can See the Whole Room!...
and There’s Nobody in It!” had been bought at auction for $2.1
million in 1988.  Asian collectors bought an unprecedented 14 percent of the
lots at Christie’s 38.1 million-pound sale of contemporary art
during London’s “Frieze Week” on Oct. 14.  Among living artists, Richter was the star, setting records
at  Christie’s  in October and at Sotheby’s New York in November.
A private collector entered eight abstracts by the German artist
in the latter sale and all sold above the high estimate.  Arnault’s Richter  A 1997 “Abstraktes Bild” in purple, red and blue was the
most expensive, at a record $20.8 million. The buyer was  Bernard Arnault , chairman of  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , said
dealers with knowledge of the matter.  “Richter is going to play a huge role in the market for
years to come,” Jonathan Binstock, a New York-based senior
contemporary-art adviser at  Citibank NA , said in an interview.
“Collectors are going for artists with proven reputations.”  Buyers were also keen to spot the Richters of the future. A
silver minimalist abstract by the New York painter Jacob Kassay,
26, created a stir when it sold for a record $290,500 at
Phillips de Pury & Co. in New York in May. The estimate had been
$60,000 to $80,000.  “Overall the market is more balanced and focused than it
was in the last boom,” said the London-based art adviser Wendy Goldsmith. “Though there are new clients coming in all the
time, these are mainly international business people. The hedge-
fund crowd isn’t so much a factor this time round.”  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in  London  at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 