-- Perry Sues Over Exclusion From Virginia Primary
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2011-12-29T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/rick-perry-sues-to-be-included-on-virginia-primary-ballot-on-super-tuesday.html
Texas  Governor Rick Perry is seeking
a court order to stop Virginia election officials from printing
or distributing primary ballots after his presidential campaign
was told his name wouldn’t appear on them.  Perry, a Republican, filed an emergency motion yesterday
seeking a temporary restraining order to prevent distribution of
the ballots without his name. In a lawsuit filed Dec. 27 in
federal court in Richmond, Perry claimed that the state’s
requirement that petition circulators be eligible or registered
qualified voters in Virginia violates his constitutional rights.  “Virginia ballot access rules are among the most onerous
and are particularly problematic in a multicandidate election,”
 Ray Sullivan , a spokesman for Perry, said in a statement
yesterday. “We believe that the Virginia provisions
unconstitutionally restrict the rights of candidates and voters
by severely restricting access to the ballot.”  The  Republican Party  of Virginia said Dec. 24 that Perry
and former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  failed to get the
required signatures from 10,000 registered voters, including 400
from each of the state’s 11 congressional districts. Two other
Republicans, former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas, qualified for the primary
scheduled for so-called Super Tuesday on March 6.  U.S. District Judge John A. Gibney Jr. set a hearing on the
motion for today at 10 a.m. in Richmond.  Ballot Requirements  Justin Riemer, a spokesman for the Virginia State Board of
Elections, a defendant in the lawsuit, declined to comment
yesterday on Perry’s complaint.  Virginia Attorney General  Ken Cuccinelli , a Republican,
said on his blog this week that he advocates loosening the
state’s ballot requirements so that candidates would need only
100 signatures from each of the state’s congressional districts.  Both Romney and Paul could rely on supporter networks built
up during their 2008 presidential runs, which shows that the
system favors candidates with well-entrenched campaigns,  Carl Tobias , a law professor at the  University of Richmond , said
yesterday in a phone interview.  In a memorandum filed yesterday, lawyers representing Perry
said a preliminary injunction was needed because the deadline to
print ballots in Virginia is in the next two to three weeks.  “In the absence of a preliminary injunction, plaintiff
will suffer irreparable harm,” according to the filing.  Well Known  Tobias said Virginia’s restrictions are well known. The
failure of some candidates to make the ballot reflects an
inability to organize across the state, he said.  “They have waited until the 11th hour,” Tobias said of
the efforts by Perry and Gingrich. “They can call it an
emergency, but it’s of their own creation.”  In an Algona, Iowa, campaign stop yesterday, Gingrich said
he didn’t make it on the Virginia ballot because of “fraud,”
saying someone hired to collect signatures provided false ones,
 CNN  reported.  Gingrich said he hasn’t yet looked at Perry’s legal
challenge to Virginia’s ballot requirements.  “I think it’s interesting for everybody who thought it was
my problem that you now have Governor Perry also pointing out
that Virginia is a very difficult ballot to get on,” Gingrich
told reporters in Mason City.  He added that he’d like to be on the ballot or have the
state’s legislature change the law to allow for write-in
candidates.  “Every poll in Virginia shows me beating Romney in
Virginia, so I’d love to be able to at least have a write-in
campaign,” Gingrich said.  The case is Perry v. Judd, 3:11-cv-00856, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  Virginia  (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  