-- Romney Compares Gingrich to Comedienne as Ex-Speaker Hits Paul
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2011-12-28T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/romney-compares-gingrich-to-comedienne-ball-as-former-speaker-hits-paul.html
Newt Gingrich defended himself from
a barrage of attacks -- including an unflattering comparison to
television comedienne Lucille Ball -- as he leveled some of his
strongest criticism yet against his rivals in the Republican
presidential race, especially  Ron Paul .  Paul, a Texas congressman who has one of the strongest  Iowa 
campaign operations and a chance at winning the state’s Jan. 3
caucuses, has accused Gingrich of “serial hypocrisy” in his
television ads. The former U.S. House speaker responded
yesterday in an interview with CNN by saying he likely couldn’t
vote for Paul, even if his other option was Democratic President
Barack Obama.  “You’d have a very hard choice at that point,” said
Gingrich, whose poll numbers have sagged in the face of
criticisms from Paul and others. “I think Barack Obama is very
destructive to the future of the  United States . I think Ron
Paul’s views are totally outside the mainstream of virtually
every decent American.”  Gingrich said Paul has a “record of systemic avoidance of
reality,” and pointed to questions over incendiary statements
in newsletters produced under his name in the mid-1990s,
including that citizens arming themselves was natural because of
carjackings by “urban youth who play whites like pianos.”  Paul has disavowed the statements and said he never saw
them until years later.  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney took note of
Gingrich’s failure to get enough signatures in  Virginia  -- where
he lives -- to be on the March 6 primary ballot there.  Pearl Harbor  Comparison  “I think he compared that to, was it to Pearl Harbor?”
Romney said in comments to reporters during a stop yesterday in
 New Hampshire  before he headed to Iowa. “It’s more like Lucille
Ball at the chocolate factory. I mean, you know, you got to get
it organized.”  Michael Krull, Gingrich’s campaign manager, over the
weekend compared the setback to the surprise Japanese attacks on
Pearl Harbor in December 1941. Romney’s analogy pointed to an
“I Love Lucy” television episode where the title character
becomes overwhelmed by the speed of a conveyor belt at a candy
factory where she is working.  In the  CNN  interview, Gingrich responded to the Lucille
Ball comment by reiterating his challenge to Romney to a one-on-
one debate.  “I’d love for him to have the courage to back up his
negative ads,” he said.  Caucuses Approach  The back-and-forth came one week before voters in  Iowa  will
start to winnow the Republican presidential field by attending
1,774 precinct caucuses statewide in gatherings that mark the
start of the nomination voting.  Gingrich and Romney yesterday made their first forays into
Iowa since a quiet campaign weekend in observance of the
Christmas holiday. Paul will join the group today, and all three
will spend the majority of the week in the state amid a final
flurry of bus tours, television ads and campaign phone calls.  Former U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania , Texas
Governor  Rick Perry  and U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of
 Minnesota  are also crisscrossing the state on buses as they
compete for the votes of social conservatives who have yet to
coalesce around a single candidate.  Perry also failed to make the Virginia ballot. His campaign
said in a news release yesterday that it would challenge the
decision in federal court.  Perry’s Focus  Hurt in the polls by poor debate performances, Perry has
focused on courting social conservatives in Iowa in a bid for a
strong caucus showing.  Speaking to potential caucus-goers in Osceola yesterday,
Perry heightened his opposition to abortion, the  Associated
Press  reported. He said he now opposes it for pregnancies
resulting from rape or incest, according to the AP. In the past,
he said he believed abortion was acceptable in cases of rape,
incest or when the mother’s life is at risk.  Gingrich, in his interview with CNN while he campaigned in
Dubuque, Iowa, dismissed a Wall Street Journal story yesterday
that outlined how in a 2006 memo he praised the health-care law
Romney helped put in place in  Massachusetts  as governor.
Gingrich now attacks the measure, which included for state
residents an insurance mandate that is central to the federal
health-care legislation Obama pushed into law last year.  “Where Romney and I are different is I concluded that it
doesn’t work,” Gingrich said when asked about a government
mandate for health insurance. “He still defends it.”  Romney has said he opposes the federal mandate.  Targeting Obama  During most of his campaign day, Romney aimed his fire at
Obama, offering a preview of an argument he would like to make
in a general election.  Speaking in Davenport, Iowa, Romney assailed the White
House for being unable to pull the country out of what he termed
“The Great Obama Recession.”  “Mr. President, you’ve had your moment,” he said. “We’ve
seen the results. And now, Mr. President, it is our time.”  The speech, billed by aides as Romney’s closing argument to
Iowa voters, accused Obama of transforming the country into an
“entitlement society” dependent on government aid.  “This election is about more than replacing that
president; it is about saving a vision of America,” Romney told
a crowd of several hundred gathered in a hotel ballroom. “It is
a choice between two destinies.”  Ben LaBolt , Obama’s campaign spokesman, responded with a
statement charging that Romney “believes in skewing the playing
field toward those at the top while leaving Americans facing a
challenge on their own.”  Ad Spending  As of last week, Gingrich had spent just one-fifth of the
amount of money on advertising promoting his candidacy as his
opponents and their backers had spent attacking him and his
record, according to Kantar Media’s CMAG, a New York-based
company that tracks the expenditures.  Restore Our Future, a political action committee supporting
Romney, has spent about $670,000 on commercials criticizing
Gingrich as someone with “a ton of baggage,” and Paul has
spent about $50,000 on spots critical of Gingrich.  Gingrich continued to defend his work for  Freddie Mac , the
government-backed mortgage company that paid his consulting
business at least $1.6 million after he left Congress. He said
most of the money went to overhead and that his personal annual
share was about $35,000.  “This would be like ascribing to Romney all of the income
of  Bain Capital ,” he said on CNN, referring to the Boston-based
private-equity fund his rival co-founded. “He knows better, his
staff knows better.”  Lobbyist Contact  Gingrich’s primary contact inside the organization was
Mitchell Delk, Freddie Mac’s chief lobbyist, and the former
speaker was paid a monthly retainer of $25,000 to $30,000
between May 1999 until 2002, according to three people familiar
with aspects of the business agreement.  On the campaign trail, Gingrich criticized Romney’s stance
on taxes, calling him a “Massachusetts moderate,” as he
pledged to “dramatically” cut taxes.  “It’s a pretty simple message: We know how to create jobs,
we know to create economic growth,” he told reporters in
Dubuque. “We can go back and do it again and contrast that with
Governor Romney, who as a Massachusetts moderate raised taxes on
businesses, created a larger government, imposed greater cost on
business.”  The negative ads against Gingrich came up twice while he was
taking questions at a Rotary Club lunch in Dubuque.  “The only person these negative ads are helping is  Barack
Obama ,” Gingrich said. “The commercials we’re about to put up
are all positive, they all go straight at how do you create jobs
and how do you get the right things done.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Dubuque, Iowa, at 
 Thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
John McCormick in  West Des Moines , Iowa, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  