-- Scene 2011: Dimon, Mack, Krawcheck, Paulson, Paltrow, Bundchen
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2011-12-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/scene-2011-dimon-mack-krawcheck-paulson-paltrow-bundchen.html
Scene Last Night met a lot of people
at a lot of parties in 2011. Here are some of the personalities
that entertained, intrigued and taught us something about giving
back.  Sallie Krawcheck  She kicked off the  New York  social season at the Winter
Antiques Show opening night, sponsored by U.S. Trust, a unit she
oversaw at Bank of America. Not that she had time to look at
antiques: She spent most of the evening greeting guests,
standing near a display of furniture from her hometown of
Charleston,  South Carolina .  By autumn, she had left Bank of America and was going out
with her husband to the opening nights of the  New York
Philharmonic  and  Carnegie Hall , where she serves on the board.
At the Philharmonic, the program of Wagner and Strauss was
“uplifting,” she said.  “Where’s Wagner when we need him,” quipped another guest,
J.  Christopher Flowers , founder of J.C. Flowers & Co. “He’d get
the  euro zone  whipped into shape.”  John Paulson  The founder of hedge fund Paulson & Co. lost plenty of
money this year. His party portfolio, on the other hand,
expanded.  Among the black-tie benefits he attended were the Foreign
Policy Association’s annual Financial Services Dinner, a fete
for Blenheim Palace in the company of its occupants and
caretakers, the Duke and Duchess of Marlborough, and the Whitney
Museum of American Art spring gala, which took place in a former
bus depot.  Paulson and his wife, Jenny, seemed happiest at the autumn
and spring galas for New York City Ballet, where the music of
Katy Perry played  as they shared the dance floor with  Paul McCartney , Sarah Jessica Parker, Ed Norton and Steve Buscemi.  John Mack  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s retiring chairman knows a gala doesn’t
tell a nonprofit’s full story. So one morning he gave a tour of
the  Morgan Stanley Children’s Hospital , which the firm’s
employees helped build.  We visited infants in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit,
spent a moment with a permanent resident, a Big Bird doll, and
scanned walls of donor names. Why were Steven and Alexandra
Cohen’s printed larger?  “They gave more,” Mack said. To be precise, he coaxed $50
million from the hedge-fund manager and his wife to create the
Pediatric Emergency Department, which opened in the spring.  “One of the great things here are the iPads the kids can
play on,” Mack said, tentatively scribbling on one.  Jamie Dimon  The chairman and chief executive of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
cut a handsome figure at the Museum of Modern Art’s Party in the
Garden but looked like a wallflower at the party his wife, Judy,
threw for women’s fashion designer Wes Gordon, filling their
Upper East Side home with racks of clothes, models, a harpist
and hors d’oeuvres by Olivier Cheng.  In fact Dimon kept a low profile on the party circuit,
leaving his bank unit to make the splash: Chase sponsored the
Black Eyed Peas concert in Central Park, which raised $4 million
for the Robin Hood Foundation. And at the American Giving
Awards, Chase Community Giving presented $2 million to five
nonprofits, with Miley Cyrus and Colin Farrell on hand.  Evelyn Lauder  Lauder, who passed away in November, provided a charming
moment at the Breast Cancer Research Foundation Hot Pink Party.
Asked to fill a gap in the program, the nonprofit’s founder and
chairman went on stage and told a few jokes (including one about
soliciting bids to get her to stop).  Not exactly a stand-up comedian, she was warm, passionate
and effective as ever. In 18 years BCRF has given $360 million
to 186 researchers in 13 countries.  Her experience building the Estee Lauder cosmetics empire
came in handy: The sale of pink products ranging from diamonds
to paper towels brought in $21 million last year. The next Hot
Pink Party, on April 30, will be a tribute to Lauder, with help
from Elton John and her husband, Leonard, now acting BCRF
chairman.  Paul Tudor Jones  When this hedge-fund manager is at the party, you’re going
to have a good time doing good, most likely with some live
music.  Lady Gaga came out in a luminescent egg-shaped chariot for
a long set at the  Robin Hood Foundation  gala -- after Kid Rock
had performed a new song in tribute to American veterans.  In  Palm Beach , the dress code was jeans and cowboy hats for
Kenny Chesney’s gig at the  Everglades Foundation  gala. (Dave Matthews has that job in 2012, on Feb. 17, once again at the
Breakers.)  As for which 2011 gala musician was his favorite? Jones
seemed most enthusiastic when his daughter  Caroline  played at
the inaugural benefit for the  Dubin Breast Center . Dad was
dancing in front of the stage, with mom, Sonia Jones, recording
the performance on her white mobile phone.  Gary Cohn  You can count on the president and chief operating officer
of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  for a good yarn. At the gala for the
New York University Hospital for Joint Diseases, Cohn described
an operation he had on his thumb. His doctor, Keith Raskin,
explained that the injury was skier’s thumb, a ligament tear
from holding the ski pole when you fall.  Cohn falls?  “He’s an expert skier,” clarified his wife, Lisa
Pevaroff-Cohn, a painter and jewelry designer. “Someone skied
into him.”  In any case, serving on the board of the New York
University Langone Medical Center means good care for the Cohn
family.  “I get calls from Vail,” Raskin said.  Marcus Samuelsson  The chef has fashioned a fundraising mecca in the lower
level of his Red Rooster. President  Barack Obama  was there for
braised short ribs to support the  Democratic National Committee .
 Halle Berry  and Ron Perelman stopped by to raise money for the
New York City Family Justice Center.  The dinner for  Copland House , which owns the Westchester
home where composer Aaron Copland lived and worked, featured
those Obama short ribs, smoked Arctic char, and curried lobster,
paired with music by Ellington, Gershwin, Fats Waller and
others. When baritone James Martin, a magnetic Juilliard
graduate, sang a Black spiritual, Samuelsson was one step closer
to realizing his vision of a new Harlem Renaissance.  That made dessert -- caramelized white chocolate cake --
all the sweeter.  Gwyneth Paltrow  At the  Bent on Learning  benefit, Lydia Fenet of Christie’s
auctioned off a 21-day deep cleanse, a package with celebrity
trainer Tracy Anderson and a vegan dinner with artist Francesco
Clemente. Honoree Gwyneth Paltrow also got in the game, offering
two tickets to a performance of “Glee Live! In Concert!”  “Bring your kid, I’ll send a car, and we’ll go
backstage,” Paltrow said, helping sell the package for $10,000.  The actress, dressed in Alexander Wang, ended the evening
giving hugs and autographs to Bent on Learning students, who
learn yoga at their schools.  Gisele Bundchen  The supermodel ascended the steps of the  Metropolitan
Museum  of Art Costume Institute Benefit gala behind SAC Capital
Advisors LP’s  Steve Cohen . Bundchen also mingled with financiers
at the Robin Hood gala, where the company included Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. president and COO Gary Cohn, one of the few present
who matched her height.  At the Harvard Club, she picked up a Global Environmental
Citizen Award from  Harvard Medical School ’s Center for Health
and the Global Environment.  The busy face of Givenchy is a United Nations Environmental
Ambassador, has an “eco-friendly” line of flip-flops and
started a clean-water project in her hometown in  Brazil .  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 