-- Sears as Lampert’s ‘Mismanaged Asset’ Loses Customers to Macy’s
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e   a n d   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2011-12-28T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/sears-as-lampert-s-mismanaged-asset-loses-shoppers-flowing-to-macy-s.html
When Kmart acquired  Sears (SHLD)  in 2005,
Chairman Edward Lampert said the new company would have the
geographic reach and scale to compete with Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  The billionaire hedge fund manager has since presided over
18 consecutive quarters of declining sales. He’s on his fourth
chief executive. While  Sears Holdings Corp.  shares soared in the
first few months after the merger, they’ve fallen 55 percent in
2011 alone.  Sears “has been a mismanaged asset,” Gregory Melich, an
analyst at International Strategy & Investment, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview yesterday. “A lot of traditional
department stores have reinvigorated themselves through
merchandising, through changing their locations; you think of
Macy’s. You haven’t seen that from Sears.”  Yesterday, the largest U.S. department store chain reported
that it would close as many as 120 locations after same-store
sales fell 5.2 percent in the eight weeks ended Dec. 25. By
contrast, such sales in the department-store sector will climb
an estimated 4 percent in November and December, compared with
the same period a year ago, according to the  International
Council of Shopping Centers , a New York-based trade group.  The shares plunged, falling 27 percent to $33.38 yesterday
in  New York , the largest drop since April 29, 2003.  Since becoming chairman in 2005, Lampert, 49, has reduced
costs, closing 171 large U.S. stores and cutting the headcount
by about 12 percent. Sears employed 312,000 people as of
January, down from 355,000 in June 2006, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Meanwhile, his hedge funds have made
money on the original investment.  Ceding Customers  He has tried one strategy after another. An initial push
involved converting 400 Kmart stores to a format called Sears
Essentials with grocery and convenience items. Sears Grand,
another concept, hewed to a superstore model. All have failed to
reverse falling sales and ceded customers to the likes of  Wal-
Mart (WMT)  and Macy’s.  “At Sears, a lot of what we sell is tied to housing,”
Chris Brathwaite, a Sears Holdings spokesman, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “The recession has had an impact
on our company, like most retailers.” The closings will allow
the  Hoffman Estates , Illinois-based company to focus on
“better-performing stores,” he said.  Steve Lipin, a spokesman for Lampert, didn’t return a call
seeking comment.  Buffett Inspiration  Lampert founded his hedge fund ESL Partners in 1989, taking
inspiration for his approach to finding undervalued stocks from
the shareholder letters of  Warren Buffett , the billionaire
chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Lampert has specialized in
buying stakes in beaten-down retailers, some of which he helped
turn around by either collaborating with or shaking up
management.  Lampert’s  hedge funds  bought Kmart Corp. bonds and bank
loans and then swapped the debt for stock in a bankruptcy
reorganization in 2003. At the same time, Lampert’s funds were
also building a 15 percent stake in Sears, Roebuck & Co. by
purchasing shares on the open market.  When Kmart acquired Sears in 2005 to form Sears Holdings
Corp., Lampert and his funds initially held a 39.4 percent
stake, comprised of about 64.6 million shares. Based on what the
funds paid for their Kmart stake, as well as the average trading
price during the quarters that they bought Sears stock, the
funds spent an estimated $1 billion on the investment.  Profitable Investment  Even after this year’s slump in the stock, Sears has been a
profitable investment for Lampert. His hedge funds paid about
$16 a share for the stake in the chain, based on regulatory
filings and Bloomberg calculations.  When Lampert announced his plan to buy the department store
chain in November 2004, he said Sears’s service and products
were “every bit as good as any of the competition.”  Both Sears and Kmart were struggling at the time. Sears’s
annual sales were stuck at $41 billion in each of the four years
ending in 2003. Kmart had emerged from bankruptcy after failing
to compete with Wal-Mart’s lower prices.  Now Sears is turning upside down a strategy that has
prevailed for most of its 118-year history. It’s accelerating
franchising efforts -- including Sears Hometown and Sears Auto
stores. It’s leasing space to such retailers as Forever 21. And
it’s allowing other retailers to sell the popular DieHard,
Craftsman and Kenmore products and licensing those brands.  Capital Starved  In the meantime, the larger stores have been starved of
 capital investment  and customers have defected, according to
Gary Balter, an analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG in New York.  Sears is spending less than a quarter of the $8 a square
foot that retailers typically invest to maintain stores,
according to International Strategy & Investment Group. In an
August report, the New York-based firm put Sears and Kmart at
the bottom of the list of a dozen retailers ranked by sales per
square foot and operating profitability.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in the fourth quarter will be less than half of
last year’s $933 million, Sears said yesterday.  Lampert is a self-styled merchant who has found it
difficult to cede managerial control to experienced retail
managers, said Jay Margolis, a former executive with Limited
Brands Inc. and Reebok International Ltd.  “Sears has just lagged way behind,” Margolis said
yesterday on Bloomberg Television. “There is no energy there.
We have not seen the results. We have not seen the change in the
product. He has found it difficult to let go.”  Dwindling Cash  Cash had dwindled to $624 million at the end of the third
quarter, compared with $790 million a year earlier.  “If the vendors are comfortable shipping to them, they
could go on for years,” Balter said. “Their balance sheet is
fine. But it’s usually vendors who decide and if they pull the
plug, then the company has no choice and they have to file” for
 bankruptcy protection .  Closing the Kmart and Sears stores will generate $140
million to $170 million of cash from inventory sales and leasing
or sales of the locations, Sears said yesterday. The chain plans
to reduce fixed costs by $100 million to $200 million.  The company will incur non-cash expenses of as much as $2.4
billion in the fourth quarter to write down the value of
potential tax benefits and goodwill.  Sears didn’t specify which stores will be closed. In his
annual investor letters, Lampert has identified the smaller
Hometown and Sears Outlet stores as sources of growth and
profit. The company opened 122 of those “specialty” stores
last year, he said in his 2011 letter, and now has 945 -- less
than a quarter of the total.  Web Operations  New CEO Lou D’Ambrosio, hired in February, is ramping up
Web operations. Online sales via Sears’s various websites grew
30 percent year-over-year in the second quarter of this year,
and 22 percent in the first quarter. To jog that growth, Sears
has given salesmen in 450 of its stores more than 5,000 iPads
and 11,000 iPod Touches to help them track inventory and
customer orders, and added free wireless access.  “If they can just create enough  cash flow  to get through
the downturn, at some point there is going to be a huge uptick
in appliance sales,”  Paul Swinand, an analyst with Morningstar
Inc. in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “They just have
to make sure that when that happens they are not cut off at the
knees, and that it doesn’t all go to Home Depot and Best Buy.”  Sears is to report fourth-quarter earnings on Feb. 23.  “The market is assuming there’s more bad news to come,”
Swinand said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net ;
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  