-- SEC Granted Temporary Stay of Citigroup Lawsuit by U.S. Court of Appeals
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2011-12-28T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/sec-granted-temporary-stay-of-citigroup-lawsuit-by-u-s-court.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s suit against  Citigroup Inc. (C)  will remain on hold
while a federal appeals court considers whether to review a
judge’s rejection of a $285 million settlement in the case.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan yesterday agreed to
the SEC’s request to delay the case until at least Jan. 17. The
agency is challenging U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff’s refusal
last month to approve an accord resolving claims that  New York- 
based Citigroup misled investors in a $1 billion financial
product linked to risky mortgages. The agency said halting the
case was necessary because Rakoff told Citigroup to respond to
the SEC’s complaint next week.  “The commission seeks a stay on an emergency basis because
the Jan. 3 deadline for Citigroup to answer creates an exigency
that threatens the commission with additional irreparable
harm,” the regulator said in court papers.  The court said the SEC’s request to stay the case in the
lower court and to expedite the appeal will be submitted to a
motions panel of the court Jan. 17. The case will be kept on
hold until the panel decides whether to grant the requests, the
court said in a two-sentence order.  Admission of Wrongdoing  In his Nov. 28 ruling, Rakoff criticized the agency’s
practice of settling without requiring the subject of the
allegations to admit wrongdoing. The  Manhattan  judge said the
Citigroup settlement didn’t provide him with “any proven or
admitted facts” to inform his judgment.  The SEC said it wanted to preserve agency resources by
putting the case on hold while the appeals court considers
Rakoff’s ruling.  Earlier yesterday, Rakoff issued an order denying a request
from the SEC and Citigroup’s that he halt the case during the
appeal.  Rakoff, a former federal prosecutor and civil litigator,
has previously criticized the SEC’s practice of allowing
financial institutions to settle enforcement actions without
admitting or denying the agency’s allegations. In 2009, he
rejected a $33 million agreement between the SEC and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  Rakoff “reluctantly” approved a $150 million
accord in that case in February 2010.  The commission said this month that it was unaware any court
has ever before required that “proven or acknowledged facts”
be established as a condition to the approval of a proposed
consent judgment submitted by a federal government agency.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 11-05227,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Second Circuit ( New York ). The district court case is
11-cv-7387, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  