-- Serbia Has Potential to Cut Interest Rates, Central Bank Chief Soskic Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2011-12-28T08:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/serbia-has-room-to-cut-rates-in-first-half-2012-central-bank-chief-says.html
Serbian central bank Governor Dejan Soskic said policy makers may be in a position to cut borrowing
costs in the first half to help foster economic growth because
inflation will continue to slow.  “We have a period in front of us where room for monetary
policy relaxation will exist,” the head of the Belgrade-based
Narodna Banka Srbije said in a Dec. 26 interview. There’s scope
for more rate cuts at least in the “next six months.”  The central bank expects annual inflation to slow in the
first quarter toward its target range for the end of 2012 of
between 2.5 percent and 5.5 percent, from 8.1 percent in
November.  Serbia ’s central bank lowered its benchmark two-week
repurchase rate a quarter-point to 9.75 percent on Dec. 8 for
the sixth time since June on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will
damp export demand and slow economic growth.  The rate cuts have resulted in a 5.24 percent decline in
the dinar value against the euro since June, leaving it with a
3.3 percent cumulative year-to-date gains against Europe’s
common currency, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The economy of Serbia, which is seeking to begin
negotiations to join the European Union, is expected to grow 2
percent this year, less than an originally planned 2.5 percent,
still exceeding the economies of its neighbors.  Croatia , which
will probably become an EU member in 2013, sees its economy
growing 0.4 percent this year, while EU members Romania and
 Bulgaria  expect growth of 1.5 percent and 1.9 percent
respectively.  Budget Targets  Soskic said the targeted budget deficit of 140 billion
dinars ($1.78 billion) in 2012, or 4.25 percent of gross
domestic product, isn’t expansionary and won’t fuel inflation.
The deficit target contained in the draft budget, agreed with
the  International Monetary Fund  under a 1 billion-euro ($1.3
billion) precautionary loan program, is a quarter-point below
the 4.5 percent limit imposed by fiscal rules.  An increase in risk premiums for borrowers like Serbia is a
concern and Europe’s debt crisis could make it harder for Serbia
to tap international markets for funds it needs to cover its
deficit in 2012, Soskic said. An alternative to raising debt
abroad would be to borrow both in dinars and euros on the local
market, he added.  Serbia pays as much as 13 percent a year on 53-week
borrowing in the local currency. Yields on its debut Eurobond,
which the government sold in September with a 7.25 percent
coupon, closed at 7.697 percent yesterday in Belgrade, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, more than the 6.39 percent yield
on  Georgia ’s comparable 10-year bond and 6.20 percent on
 Latvia ’s bond maturing in 2021.  Officials Warned  Soskic said he has warned the president and the prime
minister of the risks to the economy as it heads toward general
elections, adding that it’s important the country not sour
investor sentiment even as it needs to borrow more than 5
billion euros next year for its deficit, pay old debt and build
new infrastructure.  “Everyone should do their job” and prove “that Serbia is
functioning as a relatively stable democracy where political
cycles do not cause uncertainty in financial markets,” he said.  Opinion polls show the ruling  Democratic Party  led by
President  Boris Tadic  trailing their main challenger, the
opposition Serbian Progressive Party, by almost seven percentage
points.  Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic and his cabinet started
their term in July 2008, just months before the global crisis
spilled over to Europe’s east and south, resulting in economic
contraction, a decline in monthly incomes and a 6 percentage
point increase in unemployment.  The ruling coalition of Democratic Party, Socialists and a
dozen junior partners including the Pensioners Party, wants to
call a vote for late April or early May, parliamentary Speaker
Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic said yesterday.  “Serbia does not have much choice when it comes to future
economic policy” regardless of whoever wins the election,
Soskic said. Debt “must be brought under control but also the
deficit.”  Monitoring Banks  The central bank is closely monitoring banks’ activities as
their parent institutions prepare to raise core Tier 1 capital
to 9 percent by mid-2012 to meet new  capital requirements .  Soskic said the introduction of Basel II rules in Serbia as
of end-2011, which requires some local banks to boost capital,
will “counter-balance” the developments in the EU, which could
lead to a drop in credit activity in countries like Serbia.  Banks have spent 300 million euros to boost capital since
the start of 2011 and a further 90 million euros are planned, he
said.  The central bank is “closely monitoring cash and capital
flows” and has prepared measures to act if things go wrong,
Soskic said, adding that Serbia still offers banks “room to
further grow and develop, the potential that has been fairly
exhausted in some of the neighboring markets,” because its
financial intermediation measured by banks’ balance sheets stood
at 78 percent of GDP and net credits at 50 percent of GDP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  