-- Serbian Railways Expects $1.5 Billion in New Loans for Upgrades
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2011-12-28T15:04:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/serbian-railways-expects-1-5-billion-in-new-loans-for-upgrades.html
Zeleznice Srbije,  Serbia ’s state-run
rail company, is seeking several credit lines that would be used
to improve infrastructure while the company is overhauled ahead
of plans to open up the market.  The unprofitable company hopes to negotiate a 200 million-
euro ($261.4 million) loan with the  European Investment Bank ,
“approximately” 120 million euros with Ceska Exportni Banka
and 35 million euros from another, unspecified lender for
building and repairing its main routes, General Manager Milovan
Markovic told reporters in Belgrade today. Another $800 million
is expected from a Russian state loan which the governments may
soon complete, he said.  “Some of that will certainly be realized in 2012 and some
is mid-term depending on project preparation,” Markovic said.  The loans will be used for sections of the so-called
Corridor 10 that are in worst shape where trains have to slow to
under 30 kilometers per hour (18.6 miles per hour), while
upgrading the routes to speeds of more than 160 kilometers per
may cost 4.6 billion euros and take two decades to complete,
said Deputy General Manager Predrag Jankovic.  The company’s net loss widened to 17 billion dinars (215
million) in 2010 from 6.6 billion dinars in the previous year.
No forecast has been offered for 2011, while the government has
proposed subsidizing it with 12.96 billion dinars in its draft
2012 budget.  “The loan from  Russia  will come in several stages” with
the first portion of some $150 million probably in the first
quarter next year, said Milan Maksimovic, in charge of
infrastructure development at  Zeleznice Srbije .  The loan from Russia is intended for rebuilding more than
400 kilometers of tracks, including a link from Serbia’s capital
Belgrade to the Montenegrin port city of Bar, and for purchasing
12 Russian-made  diesel engines  for $100 million.  The state turned Zeleznice into a closed shareholding
company in June, dividing it into four units that handle
passenger traffic, cargo, infrastructure and asset-management.
The change was part of efforts to deregulate and modernize the
services.  Parliament this week rejected a new, government-proposed
law on rail systems which was meant to open the market and
attract investment in the services dominated by the state
company.  “I’m sorry the parliament didn’t adopt the law, but it
won’t stop the ongoing reform,” Markovic said. Zeleznice’s
further transformation into a holding company should be
completed by the end of 2012, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  