-- Singapore Press Sues Yahoo, Claiming Copyright Violations Amid Countersuit
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2011-12-28T12:39:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/singapore-press-says-yahoo-used-news-content-without-permission.html
Singapore  Press Holdings Ltd.,
embroiled in a legal tussle with  Yahoo! Inc.  as both accused
each other of copyright infringement, said the Internet company
“deliberately” reproduced its news content without permission.  “Yahoo had over an extended period of time consistently
and deliberately committed plagiarism by substantially
reproducing the words and expressions used in SPH’s articles
without permission,” Singapore Press said in a statement to the
stock exchange today. Yahoo was “free-riding” on the newspaper
publisher to boost its website page views and advertising
revenue, according to the statement.  Singapore Press sued Yahoo’s Southeast Asia unit Nov. 18,
claiming the company reproduced 23 articles from newspapers
including the  Straits Times  from November 2010 to October 2011
without authorization. On Dec. 13, Yahoo denied breaching
copyright laws and counter-sued Singapore Press for wrongly
using its images and articles on a website.  “SPH is determined to pursue this suit vigorously and to
protect its copyrighted works,” the newspaper publisher said
after filing its defense to the Singapore High Court today in
response to Yahoo’s countersuit.  Yahoo said in a defense filed to the Singapore court Dec.
13 the articles that Singapore Press claimed were reproduced
without authorization were insubstantial and insignificant.  “There is an important public interest in respect of the
right of the public to be informed of current events in
Singapore,” the Sunnyvale, California-based  Internet company 
said. “Copyright law does not protect facts and information.”  Negotiations Collapsed  Yahoo approached Singapore Press in April 2009 for a
license to reproduce news content, and negotiations between the
two companies broke down last year, according to the publisher’s
lawsuit. The Internet company relied on Singapore Press’s
articles to provide content on its website to raise traffic and
build readership without having to expend financial resources,
according to the lawsuit.  “These acts of infringement were committed by Yahoo to
direct and maximize traffic to its website in order to drive up
its page views and advertising revenue,” Singapore Press said
today. “This was not done for the public interest, as claimed
by Yahoo, but instead in furtherance of its own vested financial
interest.”  Singapore Press deliberately kept silent until a letter
from its lawyers Nov. 4, causing Yahoo to continue with the
alleged infringement for a year as it believed the publisher had
no complaints, according to the Internet company’s filing.  The case is  Singapore Press Holdings Ltd. (SPH)  v Yahoo!
Southeast Asia Ltd. S831/2011 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net . 