-- South Korean Won Advances on Speculation Exporters Sold Dollar; Bonds Gain
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2011-12-28T07:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/south-korean-won-trades-near-a-one-week-low-as-producers-confidence-drops.html
South  Korea ’s won gained for the
first time in three days on speculation exporters repatriated
earnings to take advantage of the local currency’s declines this
month.  Government bonds  advanced.  The currency climbed after a U.S. report showed yesterday
that  consumer confidence  in the world’s largest economy rose to
an eight-month high in December, tempering concern the global
recovery is stalling. The won fell 1.1 percent this month,
boosting the value of overseas earnings.  “The won gained in the final hour of trading on dollar
selling orders from exporters,” said Nam Kyung Tae, a Seoul-
based currency dealer with Industrial Bank of Korea. “Trading
volume was low with exchange rates barely moving during the day,
and small orders led to big price changes.”  The won climbed 0.3 percent to 1,155.61 per dollar in
 Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched a
one-week low of 1,160.09 yesterday. The currency has fallen 2.6
percent so far this year, set for its first decline since 2008.  A measure of South Korean manufacturers’  confidence  fell to
the lowest level since July 2009, central bank data showed
today.  The nation’s financial regulator is boosting its monitoring
of market speculation related to  North Korea , Financial
Supervisory Service spokeswoman Kim Soo Mi said today. North
Korea today lays to rest  Kim Jong Il , who developed nuclear
weapons while more than 1 million of his people starved to
death.  The yield on the 3.5 percent bonds due September 2016 fell
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.51 percent,
according to Korea Exchange Inc. prices.  Benchmark  five-year
rates dropped 57 basis points this year, set for a second annual
decline, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  South Korea ’s currency trading market will be closed on
Dec. 30, according to the Seoul Foreign Exchange Market
Committee. It will open one hour later than usual on Jan. 2 at
10 a.m. while closing as usual at 3 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  