-- States to Get U.S. Bonuses for Covering Uninsured Children
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2011-12-28T21:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/states-to-get-u-s-bonuses-for-covering-uninsured-children-1-.html
Twenty-three states will share
$296.5 million in U.S. payments for encouraging low-income
families to enroll their children in public health programs.  Bonuses announced today reward states that streamline
eligibility for Medicaid, the federal-state health program for
the poor, or the Children’s Health Insurance Program. The effort
is aimed at children younger than 19 from households with annual
incomes of as much as $45,000 for a family of four, though some
states have more generous criteria.  Despite the flagging economy, the number of uninsured
children decreased to 5.9 million in 2010 from 6.9 million in
2008, according to a  study  by the Georgetown University Health
Policy Institute in  Washington . Children still drop off program
rolls because parents don’t renew eligibility, increasing the
likelihood of missed vaccinations and dental checkups, said
Tricia Brooks, a senior fellow at the Georgetown institute.  “Families may avoid routine preventive care with the hope
they’ll have more money next month or delay seeking care until
they know they really have to bring the children in,” Brooks
said in a telephone interview. “At that point, the emergency
room is a likely choice.”  Maryland  led states  claiming 2011 bonuses with $28.3
million. Virginia was next highest with $26.7 million, followed
by Colorado with $26.1 million. Connecticut, Georgia,  Montana ,
 North Carolina ,  North Dakota , South Carolina and Virginia were
among first-time recipients for the money, authorized under a
2009 federal law.  Cutting Red Tape  To win bonuses, states took steps such as using electronic
databases rather than paperwork submissions from families to
verify incomes or presumptively enrolling kids who appear to be
eligible. States may also guarantee a year of eligibility
instead of requiring periodic renewals.  Georgia  and South Carolina use information from their
nutrition assistance programs to speed eligibility
determinations, said Marilyn Tavenner, acting administrator of
the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, during a
conference call with reporters.  Last year,  15 states  claimed bonuses totaling about $206
million led by Alabama, which got $55 million after adding
133,000 children to its public insurance programs.  Economic Effects  State-by-state variations and continued tough economic
times make any gains fragile, according to scholars studying
those without health insurance.  Massachusetts had the lowest rate of uninsured children,
while  Nevada  had the highest, according to the Georgetown study
that analyzed data from 2008 to 2010. Florida made the most
progress in the three years, cutting the number of uninsured
children by 160,824.  States including  New York  already have eligibility
standards above what the bonuses encourage. Children from
families earning as much as four times poverty can be signed up
for New York’s Medicaid program, according to the nonprofit
 Kaiser Family Foundation  in Menlo Park,  California .  The other states to receive bonuses announced today by the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services were:  Alabama ,
Alaska, Idaho, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Michigan,  New
Jersey , New Mexico, Ohio, Oregon, Washington and Wisconsin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  