-- Surfline.com Founder Sean Collins Dies of Heart Attack at 59 in California
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2011-12-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/surfline-com-founder-sean-collins-dies-of-heart-attack-at-59-in-california.html
Sean Collins , the founder of
Surfline.com, died of a heart attack two days ago while playing
tennis in  Newport Beach ,  California , according to his  website .
He was 59.  Collins, who began surfing at the age of eight, developed a
proprietary information system that kept surfers, lifeguards,
U.S. Navy Seals, the  National Weather Service , television and
movie production companies, government agencies and the Coast
Guard up to date on wave actions around the world.  “I’ve been in storms 100 miles out at sea, then surfed the
same swells the next day,” Collins said on his website. “I was
always looking at charts to plan my surfing and sailing, and
developed a keen sense about the ocean.”  Surfline started as a phone service that provided
proprietary surf reporting and forecasting services. After two
years, Collins left and started a rival company. He bought out
Surfline in 1990.  Five years later, he started Surfline.com to send free surf
reports and then in 1996 added the first live surf cam. In 1999,
Surfline had 200,000 unique monthly visitors, which eventually
jumped to 1.5 million, according to the website.  Collins was named one of the 25 Most Influential Surfers of
the Century in 1999 by Surfer magazine. In 2008, he was inducted
into the Surfers’ Hall of Fame.  The Association of Surfing Professionals said on its
 website  that Collins had been instrumental “in developing the
best event windows for the world’s best surfers to perform in.”  He learned about sailing aboard his father’s 50-foot boat.  “My favorite part of racing was bringing the boat back,”
he said on his website. “We could take our time and search out
surf spots.”  Collins is survived by his wife, Daren, and two sons, Tyler
and A.J.; his mother, two brothers and a sister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  