-- Swiss Leading Indicator at Two-Year Low Signals Deeper Slowdown: Economy
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2011-12-28T12:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/swiss-kof-indicator-declines-to-lowest-in-more-than-two-years.html
Switzerland ’s forward-looking
 economic indicator  fell to the lowest in more than two years in
December, adding to signs of a deepening slowdown.  The monthly gauge, which aims to predict the economy’s
direction about six months ahead, dropped to 0.01 from a revised
0.34 in November, the  KOF Swiss Economic Institute  in Zurich
said in an e-mailed statement today. That’s the lowest reading
since August 2009. Economists forecast a decline to 0.23,
according to the median of 12 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Switzerland’s export-led economy is floundering as  Europe ’s
debt crisis and the franc’s strength hamper foreign sales. The
government on Dec. 13 lowered its projections for 2012 growth to
0.5 percent from 0.9 percent, and the Swiss central bank this
month said “the substantial appreciation of the Swiss franc
over the summer is weighing heavily” on the economy.  “Economic growth on a year-on-year perspective is
going to stagnate over the first months of 2012,” KOF said in
its statement.  The Swiss franc gained after the release and traded at
1.2195 versus the euro at 12:04 p.m., up 0.1 percent on the day.
Against the dollar, it traded at 93.27 centimes.  Swiss Haven  The  Swiss National Bank  on Dec. 15 left its benchmark
 interest rate  at zero and stressed its resolve to defend the
limit of 1.20 francs per euro introduced in September to fight
deflation risks. The SNB will enforce the minimum  exchange rate 
“with the utmost determination,” it said.  The currency, seen as a haven in times of turmoil, gained
as much as 37 percent against the euro in the 12 months before
the SNB introduced the limit, threatening exports and lowering
the price of imported products.  Reports overnight showed  Japan ’s rebound from the March
earthquake and tsunami sputtered in November as production and
retail sales tumbled, deepening the nation’s return to the
deflation that first took hold a decade ago.  Industrial output slumped 2.6 percent from October, more
than all the forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey of 29
economists, a government report showed in  Tokyo . Retail sales
slid 2.1 percent. Consumer prices excluding fresh food fell 0.2
percent from a year earlier after a 0.1 percent decline the
previous month.  European Stocks  European stocks nevertheless extended gains, with the
benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rising for a fourth day, as
 Italy ’s borrowing costs fell at an auction of 179-day bills.
U.S. index futures advanced, while Asian shares dropped.  The German state of North Rhine-Westphalia is due to
publish December inflation data later today ahead of the pan-
German report tomorrow. Retail sales in  Sweden  unexpectedly rose
0.8 percent in November from October.  “Switzerland’s economy will rebound in the second quarter
of 2012,” said Ralf Wiedenmann, chief economist at Vontobel
Asset Management Ltd. in Zurich, who predicts the country’s
gross domestic product will expand 0.7 percent next year. “I
expect the euro-area financial crisis to subside, and that will
help exports.”  The economy will gather steam in the second half of next
year and growth will quicken to 1.9 percent in 2013, bolstered
by exports, domestic demand and construction, the government
said this month. There aren’t any signs of an “economic slump
like the one at the end of 2008,” after the failure of  Lehman
Brothers Inc ., it added.  The franc cap “has given companies stability and a stable
planning environment,” Marie-Gabrielle Ineichen-Fleisch, head
of the State Secretariat for Economic Affairs, told Neue
Zuercher Zeitung in an interview today. To return to normal, the
economy would need an exchange rate of 1.35 to 1.40 francs per
euro, she said.  Jona, Switzerland-based cement maker  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  last month
said the appreciation of the Swiss franc reduced third-quarter
sales and operating profit by 15 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  