-- Swiss Skiing Gets Cheaper as Franc Forces Resorts to Cut Prices
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2011-12-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/swiss-skiing-gets-cheaper-as-resorts-to-cut-prices.html
Four years after Bruno Prior paid
less than a dollar for an unprofitable ski resort in the Swiss
Alps, the strength of the country’s currency has quashed the
British entrepreneur’s dream of turning it around.  The Swiss franc has risen 70 percent against the pound since
August 2007, when Erner Galen’s community backed Prior’s plan to
resuscitate 12 miles (19 kilometers) of pistes over bids to
build holiday chalets. After investing more than 500,000 francs
($533,000) in the resort east of Zermatt, he’s dropped a plan to
raise another 100 million francs and is instead seeking a buyer.  “The funds we’d set aside for it were worthless,” said
Prior, 45, a director of U.K.-based Summerleaze Ltd., a firm
that specializes in renewable energy and waste disposal. “The
strength of the franc is a problem for the country long term.”  The franc’s gain, coming after a season when snowfall was
less than two-thirds of the long-term average, is putting
pressure on a ski industry worth 1.5 billion francs a year to
the Swiss economy. Resorts from St. Moritz to Verbier are
cutting prices for hotels and ski passes to lure foreign
visitors and deter locals from crossing the border into France
or  Austria .  A combination of the strong franc and Europe’s debt crisis
is weighing on this season’s bookings with some hotels only half
full, said Guy Chanel, marketing director for tourism in
Villars, a ski resort 123 kilometers (76 miles) east of Geneva.  “In the past, chalets would be booked in August or
September for Christmas,” said Chanel, adding that heavy snow
this month boosted reservations. “Now it’s last-minute.”  Ski-Pass Discounts  Almost half the resort’s 45 restaurants are reducing prices
and discounts of 30 percent are available for weekday ski
passes, according to Chanel.  The franc’s strength prompted ski-wear suppliers to cut
prices by as much as 20 percent, said Michel Daetwyler, who is
passing on those reductions to customers at his family-owned
store on the main street in Villars.  “If we didn’t own a chalet here, we probably would have
gone to  France  to ski instead,” Loralie Barker, an American
mother of three who lives in  London , said in a Dec. 21 interview
on the slopes of Villars. “The strong franc certainly would
have been an issue if we had to pay for a hotel or other
accommodation.”  About 60 percent of Swiss hotel guests are foreigners, and
half of them hail from countries using the euro, which has
weakened 20 percent against the franc in the past two years. The
 Swiss National Bank  capped the exchange rate at 1.20 per euro on
Sept. 6 after the currencies almost reached parity.  Sleigh Rides  St. Moritz, which bills itself as the birthplace of the
“white winter holiday,” is offering discounts on accommodation
and ski lessons during some weeks of the season to limit an
expected decline in overnight stays, said Sara Roloff, a
spokeswoman at the tourism office. The  Chesa Salis  hotel in St.
Moritz has started offering guests a free ride into the village
in a horse-drawn sleigh, she said.  Davos-Klosters, whose ski-season regulars include Prince Charles, was handing out  free lift passes  to people booking
overnight stays until Dec. 23, according to the Swiss Tourist
Board.  That wasn’t enough to stop Graubuenden, home to both St.
Moritz and Davos-Klosters, from being rated the most expensive
ski area in  Europe  after  Norway ’s Hemsedal, according to a study
of 488 destinations by German online travel agency Ab-in-den-
urlaub.de. While an average ski pass in Graubuenden costs 47
euros ($61.23) a day, a veal, duck liver and truffle burger will
set diners back 168 francs at La Marmite in St. Moritz.  Visitors Decline  Overnight stays by foreigners in Swiss resorts will drop
4.2 percent this winter season as tourists opt for cheaper
destinations such as Austria, according to the BakBasel economic
institute in  Basel . That would accelerate the trend between 1993
and 2011, when the number of overnight stays fell 12 percent to
less than 13 million while visits to Austrian rivals such as
Ischgl and St. Anton rose 6 percent to 16.5 million.  Verbier, where 30 percent of visitors come from the U.K.
and 15 percent from France, offers an  exchange rate  that’s as
much as 20 percent better than the official rate on ski passes
and lessons, said Yan Baczkowski, chief executive officer of the
resort’s tourism office.  The franc, coupled with Europe’s debt crisis, is the
biggest problem, according to Baczkowski, for a resort where 18
guests can rent  Richard Branson ’s The Lodge for 99,800 pounds
($156,500) during Christmas week.  Matterhorn Brand  Zermatt --  ranked  by Credit Suisse Group AG as
 Switzerland ’s most successful winter destination, along with St.
Moritz -- won’t be offering any discounts, said Edith Zweifel, a
spokeswoman for the tourist office.  Indeed, the resort near the iconic Matterhorn raised the
price of a one-day international pass by 1 franc to 86 francs
this year.  “ Zermatt  does not cut prices, because we are aware of our
brand,” she said. “I cannot read the tea leaves, but we know
from our hotels that they have very good bookings for Christmas
and New Year’s Eve, though there are many openings still for
January. People book at the last minute, so we are confident.”  Prior, the investor in Erner Galen, hasn’t made up his mind
yet what to do with the ski resort he bought out of his passion
for snow and skiing.  “There have been one or two expressions of interest, but
I’ve been so tied up with my business that I haven’t had time to
pursue them,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  