-- Arab League Observers Spread Out to Syrian Cities After Violence in Homs
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2011-12-29T14:38:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/syria-fires-tear-gas-during-arab-league-visits.html
Arab monitors moved to Syrian towns
including Hama and Daraa today after a delegation to Homs was
met with mass rallies following violence against protesters in
the city.  At least 16 people died today in the countryside outside
Damascus, at Duma, which is 12 kilometers (7.5 miles) north of
the capital, and at Hama, said Mahmoud Merei, head of the Arab
Organization for Human Rights. Two Syrian dissidents travelling
to Homs to speak with the Arab League mission were among the
people killed today, while seven others were wounded on the way
from Duma, Merei said in a telephone interview.  “It’s important they have access to all areas,” State
Department spokesman Mark Toner said in  Washington , even as the
New York Times reported that monitors were being denied
admittance to places of unrest. “We need to let this mission
get up and running. It was just the first day. They just saw one
small area within Homs.”  At least 36 people have died in violence across the country
since yesterday, according to Merei. The  United Nations 
estimates that more than 5,000 people have died since the unrest
started in mid-March. President Bashar al-Assad has blamed the
violence on foreign provocateurs and his forces have used tanks,
armored vehicles and artillery to crush the uprising.  Homs Rallies  About 70,000 people had rallied in Homs a day before the
arrival of the Arab League observers yesterday, with soldiers
using tear gas and firing guns into the air to disperse the
crowd. The delegation reported seeing “nothing frightening,”
according to Mustafa Dabi, the Sudanese chief of the monitoring
contingent, in a Reuters interview cited by Arab News.  Syria  released 755 people who were arrested during
protests, state-run Syrian Arab News Agency said yesterday,
after New York-based  Human Rights Watch  charged that the
government was moving as many as 600 detainees to military
facilities where Arab League observers couldn’t access them.  “Syria has shown it will stop at nothing to undermine
independent monitoring of its crackdown,” Human Rights Watch
Middle East Director Sarah Leah Whitson said in a  statement  on
the group’s website.  Syria agreed on Dec. 19 to allow a monthlong visit by the
observers after the league imposed sanctions. The mission will
establish an “operation room” to hear Syrian complaints and
will also accept accounts via e-mail and telephone, Arab League
Ambassador Mohamed El-Fateh El-Naserey said in a telephone
interview. The Cairo-based organization, which represents 22
Arab states, is expected to deploy as many as 500 monitors.  Bloomberg News is unable to verify reports of violence as
the Syrian government restricts foreign media access in the
country and places curbs on journalists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  