-- U.S. to Press for Yuan Gains While Declining to Name China a Manipulator
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2011-12-28T08:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/u-s-declines-to-call-china-currency-manipulator.html
The Obama administration declined to
brand  China  a manipulator of its exchange rate while calling the
yuan undervalued and vowing to press for further appreciation of
the currency.  The Treasury Department, releasing its semi-annual report
to Congress on the currency policies of major trading partners,
said yesterday it will “press for policy changes that yield
greater exchange-rate flexibility” in the yuan. The report also
criticized Japan for unilaterally selling the yen in August and
October, and specified that the U.S. didn’t support the actions.  The U.S. contends that China uses an undervalued currency
to give its exporters an unfair advantage in overseas markets
and boost growth. At the same time, the administration of
President  Barack Obama  has sought to avoid actions that could
cause friction with the world’s No. 2 economy and the second-
largest U.S. trade partner.  “The administration has probably decided it would be
counter-productive to pull the trigger at this stage on the
charge of currency manipulation,” said  Eswar Prasad , a senior
fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington  and a former
International Monetary Fund economist. “Given the fragility of
its economic recovery, the U.S. cannot afford a broader trade
war with China at this juncture.”  The Chinese government is unlikely to respond
“constructively” to pressure on its currency policy and
therefore the administration “prudently decided to save its
powder for future battles,” Prasad said.  ‘Strong’ Pressures  The Treasury said in the report that China “has resisted
very strong market pressures” over the past decade for
appreciation of the yuan. “China’s real effective exchange rate
has exhibited persistent and substantial undervaluation,
although the estimated range of misalignment has narrowed over
the course of the past 18 months.”  The U.S. should move beyond the “useless, meaningless”
quarrel over the yuan’s exchange rate and look to new areas for
bilateral and global trade cooperation, China’s state-run Xinhua
News Agency said in a commentary today. The nation is making the
currency more flexible, and gradually moving toward more
balanced trade, Hong Lei, a spokesman for the foreign ministry,
said at a briefing in Beijing today.  China often bristles at criticism that its exchange rate is
undervalued. It disputed an IMF staff assessment in July that
the currency is “substantially below the level consistent with
medium-term fundamentals,” citing reasons including faulty
current-account projections.  Criticism on  Japan   The Treasury also criticized Japan, which unilaterally sold
the yen twice in the foreign-exchange market after Group of
Seven economies jointly intervened after the March earthquake.
The operations in August and October took place when market
conditions were orderly and global economic developments were
affecting other major currencies as well, the report said.  “The  United States  did not support these interventions,”
the Treasury said, adding that the impact of the unilateral yen
sales was temporary. “Rather than reacting to domestic ‘strong
yen’ concerns by intervening to try to influence the exchange
rate, Japan should take fundamental and thoroughgoing steps to
increase the dynamism of the domestic economy.”  ‘Deeply Disturbing’  The criticism marks a contrast with last year when Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  refrained from joining U.S.
lawmakers in criticizing Japan’s decision to intervene in
September 2010. Geithner said Oct. 6, 2010, that Japan didn’t
fuel international tensions when it sold the yen even as  Sander Levin , then head of the House Ways and Means Committee, had
called the move “deeply disturbing” and then Senator
 Christopher Dodd  said it violated international accords.  In China, the yuan appreciated about 7.5 percent against
the dollar as of Dec. 16 since it decided to loosen controls on
the yuan in June 2010. Because  inflation  in China is higher than
in the U.S., the yuan has risen by about 12 percent against the
dollar in real terms, the Treasury said.  “While China’s real  exchange rate  has appreciated, the
process of appreciation remains incomplete,” the Treasury said.
It cited China’s accumulation of $3.2 trillion in foreign
exchange reserves as of September and a persistent current-
account surplus as evidence the yuan “is persistently
misaligned and remains substantially undervalued.”  Moving More Quickly  “It’s time for them to go ahead and move towards a market-
based system for their currency,” Obama said in  Hawaii  at the
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit last month. “We
recognize they may not be able to do it overnight, but they can
do it much more quickly than they’ve done it so far.” Obama
said that “most economists” estimate the yuan is 20 percent to
25 percent undervalued.  The yuan  weakened yesterday to 6.3219 per dollar. It
touched 6.3160 on Dec. 26, the strongest level since the country
unified the official and market exchange rates at the end of
1993.  China will maintain a “prudent” monetary policy and a
“proactive” fiscal policy next year, the official Xinhua news
agency reported Dec. 10, citing a meeting of the Communist
Party’s Politburo led by President Hu Jintao.  The Senate voted 63-35 on Oct. 12 for legislation that
would let U.S. companies seek duties to compensate for
“misaligned” currencies. House Speaker  John Boehner  said he
has “grave concerns” with the bill because it might start a
“trade war,” casting doubt on whether it will become law.  Romney’s View  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  said Nov. 12
he would make a case against China at the  World Trade
Organization  for manipulating its currency to artificially lower
prices and run a  trade surplus . The U.S. had a $273 billion
trade deficit with China last year.  The Treasury has taken the “right approach” by
negotiating with China directly and at international forums,
John Frisbie, president of the U.S.-China Business Council, told
reporters in Washington last month. The council’s members
include  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,  Boeing Co. (BA)  and
General Motors Co.  The Treasury’s stance isn’t shared by other corners of the
government. The U.S.-China Economic and Security Review
Commission, a body created by Congress in 2000, said in its
annual report last month that China “continues to manipulate
the value of its currency,” keeping the yuan low to reduce
export prices and increase the cost of imports.  “This policy also reduces U.S. exports to China while it
encourages U.S. consumers to purchase Chinese exports,” the
commission said. “The result has been lost production and jobs
in the United States.”  Under a 1988 law, the Treasury is required to report to
Congress twice a year on international economic conditions and
exchange-rate policies. The Treasury is required to enter direct
talks with a country deemed to be manipulating its currency, and
also seek redress through the  International Monetary Fund . The
last country labeled a manipulator was China, in 1994.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  