-- U.S. State, Local Pensions Drop 8.5%
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2011-12-28T16:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/u-s-state-local-pension-fund-assets-drop-8-5-percent-as-stocks-slide.html
U.S. public pension-fund assets fell
in the third quarter by the most since 2008 as stocks sank amid
concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis would curb economic growth,
Census Bureau data showed.  Assets of the  100 largest  public-worker plans decreased
$237 billion, or 8.5 percent, from the prior quarter to $2.53
trillion by Sept. 30, the bureau said today in a report. It
marks the first decline since the second quarter of 2010 and the
biggest since the last three months of 2008, when holdings slid
13 percent during Wall Street’s credit crisis.  The setback may strain state and local governments that
have set aside more money to cover retirement benefits. That’s
pressured governments already coping with diminished tax
collections and has propelled efforts to reduce benefit costs.  The asset decline was driven by losses in stock holdings,
which slipped $134.7 billion to $769.6 billion, the Census
Bureau said. The value of holdings of corporate bonds, U.S.
treasuries, and international securities also fell.  The  third-quarter (SPC)  rout pushed the pensions’ assets back to
where they were during the last three months of 2010, wiping out
gains this year.  Markets Swinging  Pension funds typically count on earnings of about 8
percent a year to pay for promised benefits, which means they
need more money to pour into their funds or to generate returns
that will compensate for years when money is lost.  Fund overseers use accounting techniques to spread gains
and losses over time. That prevents required contributions from
swinging with changes in financial markets, though losses
elevate required contributions over time.  U.S. stock markets have recovered some of the losses
suffered during the third quarter as European authorities moved
to ease strains on banks and countries in the euro currency
zone. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has gained 11 percent
since the end of September, recovering most of the 14 percent
loss from the prior three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  