-- U.S. East Coast May Start Year With Chill Weather, Forecasts Say
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2011-12-28T13:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/u-s-east-coast-may-start-year-with-chill-weather-forecasts-say.html
The U.S. East Coast may greet the
New Year with colder weather, according to forecasters.  Average temperatures are expected to be 3 to 5 degrees
Fahrenheit (1.7 to 3 Celsius) below normal Jan. 2 to Jan. 6 from
the Canadian Maritimes to Florida, said  Matt Rogers , president
of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  MDA EarthSat Weather of Gaithersburg, Maryland, predicts
temperatures will be seasonal along most of the East Coast, with
the coldest weather in Florida. MDA said the Canadian Maritimes
and eastern Maine will be warmer than normal.  Energy usage for heating may be near normal for many areas
of the U.S. Northeast, according to  David Salmon , a
meteorologist with Weather Derivatives in Belton, Missouri.  Traders use long-range temperature predictions to gauge
energy use and demand for heating and cooling.  Power plants 
consume about 30 percent of the nation’s gas supplies, according
to Energy Department data.  Rogers predicts the coldest days for the Midwest during the
forecast period will be Jan. 2 and Jan. 3, while the East Coast
will see its lowest temperatures on Jan. 3 and Jan. 4.  New York 
may stay below freezing, 32 degrees, both days, he said.  “Next week’s quick cold shot could be the strongest seen
so far this season, according to nearly all model guidance this
morning,” Rogers said in a note to clients today.  Higher temperatures are forecast to return to much of the
U.S., including the Northeast, in the Jan. 7 to Jan. 11 period,
according to Rogers and MDA’s 11- to 15-day forecasts.  Salmon doesn’t release an 11- to 15-day forecast.  The normal average temperature in New York for Jan. 5 is
about 34 degrees, according to MDA. In Boston, it’s 29; Chicago,
24; Atlanta, 43; Seattle, 41; Houston, 50; and in Burbank,
 California , it’s 55.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  