-- Retail Sales Rose 4.5% Before Christmas
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2011-12-28T16:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/u-s-retail-sales-rose-4-5-before-christmas.html
Sales at U.S. retailers rose 4.5
percent last week from a year earlier, as shoppers snapped up
last-minute purchases for Christmas and took advantage of some
chains extending hours.  Sales for the week ending Dec. 24 increased 0.9 percent
from the previous week, according to a chain-store sales index
released today by New York-based International Council of
Shopping Centers and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  That compared with
a 3.4 percent gain a week earlier.  Retailers benefited from Christmas Eve falling on a
Saturday, with  Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO) , Toys “R” Us Inc. and
 Macy’s Inc. (M)  among chains extending hours to lure bargain-hunting
shoppers. Unemployment at its lowest in more than two years and
falling gasoline prices boosted consumer confidence to an eight-
month high in December, prompting households to seek discounts
during the holiday season.  “Retailers who gave deals found that consumers would
spend,” Marshal Cohen, chief industry analyst at NPD Group in
Port Washington, New York, said today in a telephone interview.
“The holiday was better than expected. Consumers who were tired
of living in this spending cocoon went out and bought what they
needed and wanted.”  Retail sales may rise 3.8 percent this holiday season,
compared with a 5.2 percent gain last year, according to the
Washington-based  National Retail Federation . The ICSC reiterated
its forecast for December comparable-store sales to advance 3.5
percent to 4 percent.  Profit Margins  U.S. retailers kept stores open longer than ever throughout
the holiday season. Almost all 600 Toys “R” Us U.S. locations
remained open from Dec. 20 to Christmas Eve -- or 112 hours
straight.  While the discounts may help move the merchandise, they
also could squeeze profit margins, according to Poonam Goyal, a
Bloomberg Industries analyst based in Princeton,  New Jersey .  Black Friday discounts, including a 42-inch Sharp flat-
panel television for $199.99 from  Best Buy Co. (BBY) , drew crowds the
weekend after Thanksgiving and kicked off a “solid, not
gangbusters, holiday season,” Madison Riley, a retail
strategist at consulting firm Kurt Salmon, said in an interview
yesterday.  “December started slowly and built as it got closer to
Christmas,” Riley said. “The final week was very strong,
helped by that extra Saturday before Christmas.”  Gift-card redemption in coming weeks “could be stronger
than in recent years,”  Michael Niemira , ICSC’s chief economist,
said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
Ashley Lutz in  New York  at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  