-- U.S. Must Pay $17.8 Million in Marine Crash that Killed Mother, Children
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2011-12-28T21:39:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/u-s-ordered-to-pay-17-8-million-to-family-of-marine-jet-crash-victims.html
The U.S. must pay $17.8 million to
relatives of a 36-year-old woman who died with her mother and
two daughters when a Marine Corps fighter-jet crashed into their
 San Diego  home, less than a third of what the family had sought.  U.S. District Judge Jeffrey Miller in San Diego today
awarded the damages to Don Yoon, husband of Youngmi Lee Yoon and
the father of the children, who were 7 weeks old and 15 months
old. Plaintiffs also included the husband and surviving children
of her mother, Seokim Kim-Lee, 59, who was visiting from  Korea .  The U.S. admitted sole liability due to the negligence of
military personnel for the Dec. 8, 2008, crash of a F/A 18D
Hornet fighter that incinerated the house, according to the
judge’s ruling. The damages award came after a three-day non-
jury trial where the family members sought as much as $56
million and the government argued for unspecified “fair and
reasonable compensation.”  “Ms. Kim-Lee was a remarkable woman, imbued with a love of
life, family and traditional South Korean values,” Miller wrote
in the decision. “The care, comfort, companionship, guidance,
and love provided by Ms. Kim-Lee to her family are virtually
immeasurable.”  The pilot of the jet, a member of the Marine Fighter Attack
Training Squadron 101 known as the “Sharpshooters,” ejected
moments before the crash. He had been working toward his
qualifications for takeoff and landing from an  aircraft carrier 
at the time.  Representatives of the  Justice Department ’s civil division,
which represented the U.S. in the case, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is Don Yoon v. U.S., 10-01578, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  California  (San Diego).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  