-- U.S. Company Credit-Default Swap Index Rises From Three-Week Low
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2011-12-28T22:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/u-s-company-credit-default-swap-index-rises-from-three-week-low.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk climbed from about the lowest level in three weeks
as Italian bonds fell on concern that the European debt crisis
may spread.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
climbed 1.4 basis points to a mid-price of 122 basis points at
4:43 p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd. Earlier,
the index fell as low as 120.1, the least since Dec. 8.  The swaps gauge increased as Italian bonds erased gains and
a surge in the  European Central Bank ’s balance sheet to a record
underscored the risk that the region’s fiscal turmoil could
spread globally. Benchmark Italian 10-year bonds fell, pushing
yields two basis points higher to 7.01 percent ahead of a
planned sale of as much as 8.5 billion euros of longer-maturity
debt tomorrow.  “Italy or  Europe  in general seems to be driving a lot,”
Bonnie Baha, head of the global developed credit group at
DoubleLine Capital LP in  Los Angeles , which oversees $21
billion, said in a telephone interview. “This time of year it
takes very little in activity to move the needle,” she said.  The swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, has climbed
from 119.6 on Dec. 7 as investors wager that European leaders
may fail to prevent the region’s crisis from infecting bank
balance sheets globally.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  The U.S. two-year  interest-rate swap spread , a measure of
stress in credit markets, widened 1.4 basis points to 50.75
basis points, up from this year’s low of 13.1 on April 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  