-- Lure of Chinese Tuition Pushes Out Asian-Americans
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2011-12-28T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/lure-of-chinese-tuition-squeezes-out-asian-americans-at-california-schools.html
Kwanhyun Park, the 18-year-old son
of Korean immigrants, spent four years at Beverly Hills High
School earning the straight As and high test scores he thought
would get him into the  University of California, San Diego . They
weren’t enough.  The sought-after school, half a mile from the  Pacific
Ocean , admitted 1,460 fewer California residents this year to
accept higher-paying students from out-of-state, many from
 China .  “I was shocked,” said Park, who also was rejected from
four other UC schools, including the top-ranked campuses in
Berkeley and Los Angeles, even with a 4.0 grade-point average
and an SAT score above the UC  San Diego  average. “I took it
terribly. I felt like I was doing well and I failed.”  The  University of California system , rocked by budget cuts,
is enrolling record numbers of out-of-state and international
students, who pay almost twice that of in-state residents. Among
those being squeezed out: high-achieving Asian-Americans, many
of them children of immigrants, who for decades flocked to the
state’s elite public colleges to move up the economic ladder.  In 2009, University of  California  administrators told the
San Diego campus to reduce its number of in-state freshmen by
500 to about 3,400 and fill the spots with out-of-state and
international students, said Mae Brown, the school’s admissions
director. California residents pay $13,234 in  annual tuition 
while nonresidents pay $22,878.  12-Fold Surge  As a result, almost 200 freshmen from China enrolled in
2011, up from 16 in 2009, a 12-fold increase. At the same time,
the number of Asian-American Californians enrolled fell 29
percent to 1,230, from 1,723 in 2009. The 2009 figure is from
the UC system’s office because San Diego didn’t have it
available.  While the San Diego campus is accepting more Chinese
students, the decline in Asian-American enrollment may be a
result of the total drop in California resident admissions, and
two years’ data doesn’t reflect a trend, said Christine Clark, a
university spokeswoman.  “UC San Diego is committed to admitting and enrolling
talented students from all ethnic and cultural backgrounds,”
Clark said in an e-mailed statement.  Asian-American students fighting to distinguish themselves
to college admissions officers now have to go up against Asians
from overseas, said Casey Chang, a Chinese-American senior at
Claremont High School in Claremont, California, east of  Los
Angeles . He said he has a 4.7 grade-point average and is
applying to the San Diego campus for a joint
undergraduate/medical-school program.  One in Five  “We’re all competing for the same goal, and the fact that
they’re international makes them that much more interesting to
the UCs,” Chang said.  One in five international students nationwide, or 57,000
undergraduates, came from China in 2010-11, a 43 percent
increase over the previous year, according to the  Institute of
International Education  in Washington. Colleges are more
frequently tapping this pool as the surge in middle-class
incomes in China coincides with steep budget cuts at U.S. state
universities.  UC San Diego received $227 million from the state in the
2011-12 academic year, down from $301 million in 2007-08.
Funding for the nine other  University of California  campuses
dropped as well.  Helping to Pay  “The state is not a fully reliable partner in funding
anymore,” said Scott Waugh, the provost at UCLA, where foreign
enrollments have quadrupled since 2009. “If we’re going to give
California residents the education they want and deserve, we
need non-Californians to help pay for it.”  UCLA  is increasing the size of its student body to
accommodate more nonresidents, said Janina Montero, vice
chancellor for student affairs.  Asian-Americans already are being displaced by University
of California admissions policies that give preference to first-
generation college students. The guidelines benefit low-income
Latino and African-American students over middle-income Asian-
Americans whose parents went to college, said  Mitchell Chang , an
education professor at UCLA.  “When you add this new trend on top of the political
shifts, you might have a double whammy that tends to
disadvantage Asian-Americans,” Chang said.  California students and their parents, Asian-Americans and
others, say they’re fighting an uphill battle to enter schools
that were established to provide them with an affordable
education.  ‘Taken Away’  Veronica Zavala’s son Brandon is a senior at Diamond Bar
High School, about 30 miles east of Los Angeles. As an A student
and the son of taxpayers and a state employee -- Brandon’s
father is a prison guard -- he should be able to attend a
University of California school, she said.  “There’s no reason why someone from another country should
come and take my son’s spot,” Zavala said.  U.S. universities are expanding their ties to China and
increasingly looking to China for financial support. At least a
dozen private and public colleges are opening Chinese campuses
with funding from Chinese municipalities. A Chinese government
affiliate has spent millions of dollars to establish Confucius
Institutes for Chinese language and culture at 75 American
schools, including UCLA.  UCLA has received Chinese funding for its Confucius
Institute since 2007, with the most recent grant of $320,000 for
teacher training in Mandarin and for studying ways to integrate
Eastern and Western medicine, according to the university.  The University of California’s state appropriation has been
cut 28 percent -- almost $1 billion -- since 2007-08 and faces a
midyear $100 million cut this year.  Enrollment of Chinese and other international students are
surging at state universities across the U.S.  Washington , Michigan State  At the  University of Washington  in  Seattle , the number of
in-state students in the freshman class declined by almost 500
between 2007 and 2011, even as the school enrolled more total
students. The percentage of out-of-state students surged to 34
percent of the freshman class from 19 percent over that same
period, with more than half from overseas. Almost two-thirds of
the international students are from China.  Washington residents pay $10,346 in tuition and fees while
nonresidents pay $27,830.  At  Michigan State University , in East Lansing, Chinese
undergraduate enrollment soared 23-fold in five years, to 2,217
in 2011 from 94 in 2006. Total international enrollment almost
tripled to 3,402 in the period and now makes up close to 10
percent of undergraduates.  Office in Beijing  Michigan  State opened an office in Beijing in 2008 to
improve recruiting efforts, said James Cotter, director of
admissions. Student applications are vetted by the staff in
Beijing, he said.  The increase in nonresident students comes as Michigan’s
high-school population is expected to decrease 20 percent over
two decades, so local students aren’t being squeezed out, Cotter
said.  Park, who graduated from  Beverly Hills High School  in June,
thinks he would have been admitted to UC San Diego if it hadn’t
reduced the number of slots for California residents. His
combined math and verbal SAT score of 1340 exceeded the
university’s average of 1233. His older brother was admitted to
the school in 2009 with lower test scores, Park said.  “It’s kind of unfair,” said Park, who played volleyball
and basketball in high school and took eight advanced placement
classes, all with the aim of getting into an elite university.
While he dreamed of attending Berkeley, his guidance counselor
told him that San Diego was a realistic goal.  “I feel I met the university’s standards to get in,” he
said. “I expected to get in.”  ‘13th Grade’  Instead, Park is taking classes at Santa Monica College, a
two-year  community college  he once mocked as “13th grade.”
He’s reapplying to the UCs this fall as a transfer student.  While it cut in-state freshman enrollment, UC San Diego
increased the number of resident transfer students from
California community colleges to 2,340 from 1,624 over two
years, said Brown, the admissions director.  “The University of California has been the major vehicle
for social mobility for the Asian-American community,” said Don
Nakanishi, a retired UCLA professor who ran the school’s Asian
American Studies Center for 20 years. The campuses at Berkeley,
Los Angeles and San Diego are among the most selective public
colleges in the U.S., admitting less than 40 percent of all
undergraduate applicants.  About 43 percent of all undergraduates at  Berkeley  are
Asian-American, compared with 16 percent at  Harvard University 
and Yale University and 23 percent at  Stanford University .  Nonresident Plans  To boost revenue, the University of California system plans
to increase nonresident enrollment to 10 percent from 6.6
percent of all undergraduates, said Nathan Brostrom, the
University of California’s executive vice president of business
operations. Much of that increase will be at Berkeley, UCLA and
San Diego, the campuses with the greatest appeal to out-of-state
students, he said.  Berkeley enrolled 96 Chinese students in 2010, up from 55
in 2009. In the same period, the number of Asian-American
freshmen who enrolled at Berkeley dropped 22 percent to 1,116,
the lowest since 1995. Enrollment of white students at Berkeley
also fell 29 percent as total  admissions of state residents 
dropped.  While California and other state universities admit foreign
students for legitimate educational reasons, some may be
abdicating their responsibility to educate their own citizens,
said Patrick Callan, president of the Higher Education Policy
Institute.  ‘Revenue Chasing’  “At what point is this not diversifying the student
population and just becomes another form of revenue chasing?”
said Callan, who is based in  San Jose , California. “We’re in
some danger of simply taking whoever can pay the most.”  At UC San Diego, Chinese students say they are viewed
skeptically by other students who think they’re only there
because they pay more, said Zijin Xiao, 20, a freshman from
Shenzhen, China.  “They think ‘The foreign students, they admit some who are
not fit, maybe they’re not good at academics,’” Xiao said. “It
makes me upset.”  She and fellow Chinese students say they are comforted by
the large number of their compatriots at the university, which
makes the transition to a new country easier.  Xiaojing Pang, 22, a communications major from  Guangdong
province  who goes by Celia, said the cost of San Diego’s tuition
is a burden, though she understands the tradeoff.  “I need the education and they need my money,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  