-- Turkish Lira Slides to Record, Yields Surge on Concern Over Bank Policy
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2011-12-28T16:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/turkish-lira-falls-to-record-low-yields-surge-on-concern-over-bank-policy.html
The lira hit a record low against
the dollar and yields surged after the central bank said it will
stop lending at the benchmark  interest rate  on some days,
raising uncertainty about monetary policy.  The lira weakened as much as 1 percent to 1.9191 and fell
0.9 percent to 1.9159 at 6:00 p.m. in Istanbul, increasing this
year’s losses to 19.4 percent in the worst performance among
more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
 Yields  on benchmark two-year bonds jumped 27 basis points, or
0.27 percentage point, to 11.07 percent, a Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc index of the securities showed, the highest level
since July 2009.  Central Bank Governor Erdem Basci said the bank may stop
lending each day at 5.75 percent with weekly repurchases and
instead lend at higher rates in a later auction on
“exceptional” days. The bank will seek to influence the
 exchange rate  by how it provides funding to banks, deciding on
its policy daily, Basci said in a speech in Istanbul today. The
rate at which it lends to banks on those days will be higher and
set at an auction, Basci said in a speech in Istanbul today.  Turkish central bank policy “has spurred confusion and
fear,” said Baris Karaayvaz, a trader at Turkiye Garanti
Bankasi AS.  “We again fail to understand the governor’s comments,”
Karaayvaz said in emailed comments from Istanbul. “The bank
says, leave it to me to decide what is an exceptional day. It
says, if I do something extraordinary, than it is an exceptional
day.”  Dollar Sales  The bank sold $150 million today, three times the $50
million target it announced two days ago for daily auctions.
 Turkey ’s central bank said it plans to sell $50 million a day in
its daily dollar auctions unless there are “exceptional”
circumstances. The plan, effective yesterday, will continue
until the next monetary policy committee meeting in January.
Lenders bid for $263 million today.  “Whenever Basci speaks, he disrupts the market ,” Burak Demircioglu, a trader at EFG Istanbul Securities said in e-
mailed comments. “Nothing is clear and this is disturbing the
markets. The bank is using tools inconsistent with its
statements and this is confusing people.”  The benchmark stock  index (XU100)  fell 1.9 percent to 51,553.20,
the biggest fall in two weeks.  “The central bank taking on such an active role is
counterproductive,” Ozhan Antero Atilla, emerging-market
analyst at Danske Bank A/S, said in e-mailed comments. “We will
come to a stage where foreign markets will not heed Basci’s
comments. The bank acts as if it has to do something whenever
the lira moves past 1.90.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  