-- Vestas Short-Selling Increases to Record on 2011 Orders Goal
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2011-12-28T16:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/vestas-short-selling-rises-to-record-as-company-may-miss-goal.html
Short-selling of Vestas Wind Systems
A/S increased to the highest level on record on speculation the
biggest wind-turbine maker may not reach its 2011 orders goal.  Short positions  in Vestas rose to 17.2 percent as of Dec.
26, the most in more than five years, according to figures on
Bloomberg compiled by Data Explorers Inc. Short sellers borrow
stocks and sell them in the anticipation of profiting by
repurchasing the securities later at a lower price.  The company, based in Aarhus,  Denmark , on Oct. 30 cut its
forecasts for margins and revenue, while retaining guidance that
orders this year will reach 7,000 to 8,000 megawatts. UBS AG,
 Switzerland ’s largest bank, said in a Dec. 19 note that there’s
a “high risk” Vestas won’t meet its orders target.  “Negative expectations around Vestas have increased to
reflect the view that the company will not achieve their order
guidance of 2011,” said Rupesh Madlani, an analyst in London at
 Barclays Capital  who rates the stock “equalweight/positive.”  Vestas still expects to meet the target, Peter Kruse, a
company spokesman, said by phone, declining to comment on short-
sales. Vestas has lost two-thirds of its market value this year
as competition from Asian manufacturers pushed down turbine
prices and European governments cut investment in renewables.  “Macro developments, principally reduced availability of
bank funding for infrastructure projects, will continue to
present downside risk for the company,” Madlani said.  Short-selling reached 17 percent for the first time on Dec.
23, exceeding the May 16 figure of 16.7 percent, the previous
maximum in a series that goes back to July 2006. Vestas today
fell 0.1 percent to 59 kroner by the close in Copenhagen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  