-- Wendy’s Adds $16 Foie Gras Burger in Second Bet on Japan
-- B y   C h e n g   H e r n g   S h i n n
-- 2011-12-28T05:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/wendy-s-adds-15-foie-gras-burgers-in-second-bet-on-japan-fast-food-market.html
Wendy’s Co. , the third-biggest U.S.
fast-food chain, added goose-liver pate and truffles to burgers
as it invests as much as $200 million on a return to  Japan  two
years after leaving the country.  The Japan Premium sandwich sells for 1,280 yen ($16) at
Wendy’s in Tokyo’s Omotesando luxury shopping district, the
first of a targeted 100 shops. “We think the fast-food market
here is ready for something different,” Ernest Higa, chief
executive officer of Wendy’s Japan LLC, said in an interview at
the restaurant’s opening yesterday.  Wendy’s is re-entering Japan under a plan to expand outside
the U.S., where it got 92 percent of  revenue  in 2010, after
posting losses in six of the past eight quarters. The Dublin,
Ohio-based chain is focusing on the world’s second-biggest fast-
food market first as it looks for operating partners in China
and  Brazil .  “Japan is the most important of the three to me, because
we are actually selling burgers here today,” Darrell Van Ligten, international division president, said in an interview
in Omotesando. The company expects to eventually expand to about
700 restaurants in Japan, compared with about 3,300 for
McDonald’s Corp.’s local unit, the nation’s biggest fast-food
burger chain.  Competitive Environment  Wendy’s ended a 30-year run in Japan in 2009 after its
partner  Zensho Holdings Co. (7550)  declined to renew the agreement,
saying it would focus on building its main Sukiya chain of beef-
bowl restaurants.  “Our partner had a pretty significant business which was
their primary focus,” Van Ligten said. “Given the size of the
different businesses, Wendy’s wasn’t as much of a focus area as
we would have liked it to be.”  In coming back to Japan, the burger chain is counting on
its premium menu to lure customers in a “very, very
competitive” environment, Higa said.  “This is an aging society which has more single people who
just want a meal fast, but restaurants are too expensive so fast
food is the correct sector to be in,” Kyoichiro Shigemura, a
Tokyo-based senior analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., said by
telephone today.  Wendy’s menu pits it against Japanese rivals including Mos
Food Services Inc.’s Mos Burger in terms of taste and Lotteria
Co., which has a 1,800 yen Matsuzaka beef burger, for premium
items, Shigemura said. “The competition is really stiff,” he
said.  Slowing Growth  Japan’s outlook for slow economic growth adds to the
pressure on Wendy’s to find a new niche in the industry.  The  Bank of Japan  last week said the economy’s rebound from
the March 11 earthquake has come to a pause, lowering its
evaluation for a second straight month because of the local
currency’s strength and a cooler global expansion.  McDonald’s Holdings Co. Japan forecasts sales of 304.5
billion yen this year, a third straight annual decline and 25
percent less than 2008 revenue.  “With the economic situation, you need to bring something
that is unique and exciting,” Higa said. The “new fashion” of
high-end fast food will give the chain what it needs to thrive,
he said.  Wendy’s Japan is a joint venture between  Wendy’s Co. (WEN) , which
owns 49 percent, and closely held Higa Industries Co., with 51
percent.  Wendy’s intends to triple the number of restaurants outside
the U.S. to about 1,000, Chief Executive Officer Emil Brolick
said on a conference call last month, without giving a time
frame.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheng Herng Shinn in Tokyo at 
 hcheng52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  