-- Wheat Heads for Longest Rally in Four Years on Dry Weather in U.S. Plains
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2011-12-28T20:36:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/wheat-heads-for-longest-rally-in-four-years-on-dry-weather-in-u-s-plains.html
Wheat rose, capping the longest
rally in four years, as dry weather persisted in the U.S. Great
Plains, depleting soil moisture and eroding prospects for
dormant winter crops.  The southern Plains may be mainly dry with above-normal
temperatures over the next 10 days, according to a Telvent DTN
forecast. Much of  Texas , western Oklahoma and southwest  Kansas 
is suffering from “extreme” to “moderate” drought after
months of below-average precipitation, the University of
Nebraska at Lincoln said.  “Wheat is partially pulled up by southern Plains
weather,” Mike Zuzolo, the president of Global Commodity
Analytics & Consulting in Lafayette,  Indiana , said in a
telephone interview. “We’re looking at drier weather with no
follow-up snow from the storms a couple of weeks back.”  Wheat futures for March delivery rose 1 percent to settle
at $6.5125 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade.
The commodity advanced for the eighth straight session, the
longest rally since October 2007. Earlier, the price reached
$6.56, the highest for a most-active contract since Nov. 9.  The grain has dropped 18 percent this year, heading for the
biggest annual slump since 2008, after countries including
Russia, Australia and  Canada  boosted production.  Wheat gained today on speculation that demand for U.S.
exports will increase for use in livestock feed as a lack of
rain threatens corn and soybean crops in  South America .  Dry weather “is going to hurt corn and soybean crops down
there, so that could cut into world production and world grain
supplies,”  Tom Leffler , the owner of Leffler Commodities LLC in
Augusta, Kansas, said in a telephone interview.  Wheat is the fourth-largest U.S. crop, valued at $13
billion in 2010, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  