-- When It Makes Sense to Give a Dictator Medical Sanctuary: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2011-12-28T01:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/when-it-makes-sense-for-u-s-to-offer-a-dictator-medical-sanctuary-view.html
Should Yemen’s president, Ali Abdullah Saleh, be allowed to  come to the U.S.  for medical
treatment? Yes. But with one big condition: That he resign first
and not go home again.  Offering medical harbor to dictators can come with a price,
as the hostage crisis that followed the Carter administration’s
1979 decision to admit the ailing and deposed Shah of  Iran  so
painfully demonstrated. But Saleh is no Mohammed Reza Pahlavi,
and Yemen is no Iran. In fact, a more useful analogy can be
found in  Tunisia .  When the first of the Arab revolts took hold in January in
Tunisia,  Saudi Arabia  gave refuge to President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali. Some Tunisians protested at the time. Still, the offer
prevented Ben Ali from digging in and killing more citizens.
Today, Tunisians seem to have moved past their anger about his
safe landing.  Yemenis are already protesting the idea of the U.S.
admitting Saleh, whose forces have responded violently to
dissent. The anger will probably grow if the president makes the
trip, at least officially to receive care for burns and wounds
from an assassination attempt in June.  But there are reasons to believe that the dissatisfaction
will be neither monolithic nor permanent. Saleh is not the
single focal point of unrest in the country;  Yemen  is splintered
along tribal and geographic lines. And Saleh’s ties to the U.S.,
which deepened only in 2009, aren’t as domestically toxic as
were those of the shah, who had been a close ally for decades,
or even  Egypt ’s  Hosni Mubarak , who left power in February.  Although Saleh lacks legitimacy, coaxing him to leave for
good won’t be easy. He has shown a strong reluctance to part
with power. He reneged on a deal with opposition groups:
immunity from prosecution in exchange for turning over the
presidency and allowing elections. And, after going to Saudi
Arabia for post-assassination-attempt medical care (with an
expectation he would stay out of Yemen), he abruptly returned
home, further inflaming a chaotic situation.  For Saleh, coming to the U.S. has to mean staying here --
or at least staying out of Yemen. His departure won’t solve the
country’s problems, but it also won’t imperil U.S. interests or
make a shaky situation that much worse. It might even give the
country’s battling factions the halting opportunity to come to
terms.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 