-- Worst Currency Lifts South African Exporters as Growth Slows
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2011-12-29T08:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-28/worst-currency-boosts-south-african-exporters-as-inflation-slows-economy.html
The world’s biggest major-currency
decline is benefiting  South Africa ’s largest companies as export
earnings in dollars rise and commodity producers from  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  to  Sasol Ltd. (SOL)  beat peers in the stock market.  The rand has fallen 19 percent this year to trade at 8.30
per dollar, the biggest slump among the 12 most-traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, as Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis led to a selloff in riskier assets. It may retreat 3.7
percent to 8.50 per dollar by the end of the first quarter,
according to the median estimate of 25 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  South  Africa ’s  Reserve Bank  let the rand sink 15 percent
against the dollar in the past four months after the currency’s
advance to a four-year high in April led Trade & Industry
Minister  Rob Davies  to say it was “overvalued’ and
‘‘debilitating’’ for manufacturers. Gold producer  AngloGold
Ashanti  gained 8.3 percent since Sept. 1 as the rand’s drop
increased the local-currency value of gold. Sasol shares rose to
a 40 percent premium to the  FTSE 350 Oil & Gas Producers (F3OILG)  index.  ‘‘It’s been very beneficial for these types of companies,
like Sasol, where the rand oil price is the big driver,” Greg
Katzenellenbogen, a director of Sanlam Private Investments in
Johannesburg, which manages $7.5 billion, said in a Dec. 14
phone interview. “For shareholders, certainly from an earnings
point of view, it can lessen the pain that a weaker currency
brings in other aspects of life, such as higher inflation.”  Rand Decline  The South African rand is the world’s third-worst
performing currency this year, after taking into account price
swings, ahead of only the Argentine peso and Indian rupee, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Non-deliverable forward contracts,
which provide a guide to investors’ expectations of currency and
 interest rate  moves, show the rand extending its decline to 8.56
per dollar in 2012. The rand traded at 8.15 per dollar as of
9:54 a.m. in Johannesburg.  Sasol, the largest South African company by revenue and
provider of 40 percent of the nation’s motor fuel, posted net
income of 19.8 billion rand ($2.4 billion) in the fiscal year
ended June 30, up from 15.9 billion rand the year before.
Earnings in the six months through December may rise by at least
45 percent from a year ago, the Johannesburg-based company said
in a Nov. 30 stock exchange statement, adding that it is “well-
positioned” to increase profit in fiscal 2012 as the weaker
rand compensates for slowing global growth. The rand’s decline
“positively impacted” revenue in all the company’s divisions,
Chief Financial Officer Christine Ramon said in the statement.  Operating Profits  Annual operating profits rise 946 million rand ($118
million) for every 10 cents the rand loses, Sasol said. Sasol
shares have climbed 13 percent to 383.32 rand since the
beginning of September.  “The majority of our turnover is denominated in dollars or
significantly influenced by the rand-dollar  exchange rate ,”
Jacqui O’Sullivan, a spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-
mailed response to questions from Bloomberg. “Therefore, the
average exchange rate for the year has a significant effect on
our operating profit.”  Sasol takes out forward-currency contracts to protect
against swings in the rand, O’Sullivan said. All major capital
expenditure in foreign currency is hedged through forward
contracts immediately after approval of a project, while import
costs in excess of $50,000 are also hedged, she said. A forward
contract is an agreement to buy or sell a currency at an agreed
price at a specified future date.  Aluminum Exporters  “This policy enables us to more accurately forecast our
cash outflows for purchases of both capital items and operating
materials,” she said.  For  Hulamin Ltd., (HLM)  Africa’s largest maker of fabricated
aluminum products, every one-rand weakening in the dollar-rand
exchange rate over a full year adds as much as 200 million rand
to profits, according to Chief Financial Officer Charles Hughes.
More than 60 percent of the Pietermaritzburg-based company’s
sales revenue is earned outside of South Africa. The stock has
climbed 13 percent since the beginning of September.  “The average exchange rate for 2011 is still going to be
at the stronger end of the scale rather than weaker, but the
weakening of the rand in the last quarter will benefit our
results for sure” Hughes said in a Dec. 21 phone interview from
Pietermaritzburg. “For 2012, if it remains above 8 rand, it
will have a significant effect on our profits.”  Gold Mines Index  AngloGold Ashanti, the largest African gold producer, said
in November that the falling rand helped drive third-quarter
profit excluding one-time items to a record $457 million, or
$1.18 a share, from $342 million, or 89 cents, in the prior
quarter. AngloGold shares rose 1.5 percent this quarter to
344.03 rand. Its gain since September came as the  FTSE Gold
Mines Index (FTMIGMI)  slid 15 percent.  While exporters and companies dependent on substantial
foreign earnings are benefiting from the rand’s decline, those
more reliant on imports or domestic sales are seeing profits
fall after the weaker rand pushed costs higher. South Africa’s
annual inflation rate rose to 6.1 percent in November, breaching
the central bank’s target range for the first time in almost two
years.  “Domestic companies like retailers will be the worst
off,” Rhynhardt Roodt, an analyst at Investec Asset Management
in  Cape Town , said in a phone interview on Dec. 15. “If you
have the view the rand will weaken, you’ll import a lot more
inflation. Companies with large foreign shareholdings will also
be exposed as foreign investors sell their shares.”  Raw Materials Inventories  Adcock Ingram Holdings Ltd. (AIP) , Africa’s largest over-the-
counter drug company, reported a 19 percent rise in profit to
754.3 million rand for the 12 months through September,
benefiting from a strong rand, which averaged 6.98 per dollar
for the period, cutting the price of imported raw materials.
Those costs are set to rise as the rand declines, Chief
Executive Officer Jonathan Louw said in a statement on Nov. 22.  The company increased its raw materials inventories while
the rand was strong, and is now buying forward exchange rate
contracts to help protect against further declines. The
company’s shares have dropped 4 percent since June 7, when they
reached a six-month high.  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  in October trimmed his
forecast for growth in Africa’s biggest economy this year to 3.1
percent from 3.4 percent, and lowered next year’s estimate to
3.4 percent from 4.1 percent. South Africa’s economy expanded an
annualized 1.4 percent in the third quarter as manufacturing and
mining output slumped.  Deficit Widens  The current account deficit widened to an 18-month high in
the third quarter as the cost of imports rose faster than the
value of exports, the central bank said Dec. 8. Manufacturing
growth eased to 1 percent in October from 8.1 percent the month
before, according to Pretoria-based Statistics South Africa,
missing the 5.7 percent  median estimate (SFPMNSAY)  in a Bloomberg survey of
12 economists.  The worsening debt crisis in  Europe , which buys 30 percent
of South Africa’s manufactured goods, has also sapped demand for
exports. That may persuade the Reserve Bank, led by Governor
 Gill Marcus , to keep its benchmark  interest rate (SARPRT)  unchanged at a
30-year low of 5.5 percent until the end of the second quarter,
according to nine out of 10 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The three-month implied volatility of the rand versus the
dollar climbed to 22 percent this week, from 21.9 percent last
week, indicating traders of currency options see the currency’s
swings widening in coming months.  Weak Currency  While the weaker rand can result in a “short-term buffer”
for the economy, in the longer term it’s not a substitute for
competitiveness,  Razia Khan , an economist at Standard Chartered
Plc in  London , said in a phone interview on Nov. 30.  “There is no evidence to suggest that a weak currency on
its own is going to drive lasting real economic gains for South
Africa,” Khan said. “If the rand weakens because people are
concerned about global growth then it’s going to be difficult
for South Africa to grow market share anyway. So a weak currency
is really not the answer. The context in which it happens is
more important.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  