-- M&T Says Fed Money-Laundering Review Delays Hudson City Deal
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-04-12T13:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/m-t-says-fed-money-laundering-review-delays-hudson-city-deal-1-.html
M&T Bank Corp. (MTB)  said a  Federal
Reserve  review of its compliance with anti-money-laundering
rules has delayed its planned purchase of Hudson City Bancorp.
Both banks declined in early trading.  M&T hired an outside consulting firm as part of its effort
to respond to the Fed, the Buffalo, New York-based bank said
today in a statement.  “In view of the potential timeframe required to implement
this initiative, demonstrate its efficacy to the satisfaction of
the Federal Reserve and otherwise meet any other regulatory
requirements that may be imposed in connection with these
matters, M&T and Hudson City believe that the timeframe
for closing the transaction will be extended substantially,”
the companies said in a statement.  The banks extended until Jan. 31 the date at which either
party can terminate the deal if a combination hasn’t already
been closed, and said “there can be no assurances that the
merger will be completed by that date.” The prior deadline was
Aug. 27.  M&T announced the agreement in August, valued at $3.7
billion at the time, as part of an effort to expand into  New
Jersey . The exchange ratio of shares will remain the same as
disclosed the day of the announcement, and both companies plan
to proceed with shareholders’ meetings next week to consider the
deal, according to the statement.  The Fed “identified certain regulatory concerns with M&T’s
procedures, systems and processes relating to M&T’s Bank Secrecy
Act and anti-money-laundering compliance program,” according to
the statement.  The bank slid 5.6 percent to $99 at 9:14 a.m. in  New York .
Paramus, New Jersey-based Hudson City fell 7.1 percent to $8.15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  