-- Macy’s Loses Bid to Broaden Ban on Penney’s Stewart Sales
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-04-12T21:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/macy-s-loses-bid-to-broaden-ban-on-penney-s-stewart-sales.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  will be allowed to
sell unbranded items designed by Martha Stewart’s company in
certain categories exclusive to Macy’s Inc. after a  New York 
state judge denied Macy’s bid for an order blocking the sale.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Jeffrey Oing today
declined to expand an earlier preliminary injunction to cover
products designed by  Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc. (MSO)  and
sold at J.C. Penney that aren’t branded with the Stewart name.  Oing said Macy’s, the second-biggest U.S. department-store
chain, hadn’t shown that it would suffer irreparable harm if
J.C. Penney was allowed to sell the unbranded goods. The judge
said his earlier injunction issued in July applied only to goods
branded with  Martha Stewart ’s name in categories exclusive to
Macy’s, such as cookware and bedding.  “I cannot ignore the reality of harm to J.C. Penney even
if it results from its own acts,” Oing said in denying the
injunction, adding that the company could still face damages for
lost profits if Macy’s prevails in the case.  Macy’s is suing both Martha Stewart Living and J.C. Penney,
alleging that sales of products designed by Stewart’s company in
J.C. Penney stores violates an exclusivity deal between Martha
Stewart and Macy’s signed in 2006.  Macy’s had asked Oing to broaden a preliminary injunction
he issued in July that blocked Martha Stewart Living from
selling goods with the Stewart name at J.C. Penney in categories
exclusive to Macy’s, including soft home goods and cookware.  Macy’s Request  Macy’s wanted Oing to extend the injunction to cover goods
designed by Stewart’s New York-based company that don’t carry
her name, which Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney plans to sell
under the name “JCP Everyday.”  “We’re going to appeal,” Ted Grossman, an attorney with
 Jones Day  representing Cincinnati-based Macy’s, told reporters
after the judge’s ruling. “We’re going to seek a stay and we’re
going to do it immediately. We believe the court was in error
and we expect a reversal.”  Jim Sluzewski , a Macy’s spokesman, said he expects the
appeal to be filed April 15.  “We are disappointed in today’s decision, which is, by its
nature, a preliminary ruling and not a final determination of
Macy’s claims,” Sluzewski said in an e-mailed statement. “We
are confident of a successful outcome in the appeal and
ultimately in the litigation.”  ‘JCP Everyday’  The ruling means that J.C. Penney can start selling
products designed by Martha Stewart Living in the categories
exclusive to Macy’s under the name of “JCP Everyday” at least
until the end of the trial.  Deborah Weinswig , an analyst with Citi Investment Research
in New York, said in a note to investors last week saying that
J.C. Penney may have taken a $100 million “hit” if it had to
liquidate the inventory it already purchased.  J.C. Penney is pleased with the ruling and believes the JCP
Everyday products “will be a compelling part of our overall
home assortment, complementing brands such as Royal Velvet,
Happy Chic by Jonathan Adler, Bodum and others,” the company
said in a statement.  Oing declined to hear a request from Macy’s to enforce the
injunction issued in July in connection with plastic partyware
being sold at J.C. Penney under the name “MarthaCelebrations.”
However, he warned lawyers for Penney to avoid any mention of
Stewart’s name in connection with the unbranded merchandise.  “You are to stay away from the Martha Stewart brand and
label at all costs in the exclusive categories,” Oing said.  Trial Resumed  The three sides returned to court this week to resume a
trial of Macy’s lawsuits following a month-long break, during
which mediation efforts ordered by Oing were unsuccessful. The
trial, which began Feb. 20, has featured testimony from Martha
Stewart, Macy’s Chairman  Terry Lundgren  and former J.C. Penney
Chief Executive Officer  Ron Johnson , who was ousted the same day
the trial resumed.  J.C. Penney in December 2011 acquired a 17 percent stake in
Martha Stewart Living for $38.5 million. Macy’s, which has sold
Martha Stewart-branded home goods since 2007, sued her company
the following month, saying it had the exclusive right to sell
items in certain categories including bedding and cookware.
Macy’s sued J.C. Penney about three months later.  Lawyers for Macy’s have argued that J.C. Penney is trying
to “reap the rewards” of its work with the Martha Stewart
brand, which the chain said it rebuilt after Stewart’s release
from prison in 2005, when her products were sold at Kmart.  Penney’s Defense  Martha Stewart Living has defended its agreement with J.C.
Penney, accusing Macy’s of breach of contract and saying the
retailer stocked and priced Martha Stewart products in a manner
that favors private-label brands. Martha Stewart Living also
said Macy’s couldn’t have exercised a five-year renewal option
in January 2012 because of the breach.  The three sides are scheduled to return to Oing’s courtroom
on April 16 to determine the status of the case.  The cases are  Macy’s Inc. (M)  v. Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc., 650197/2012; Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney Corp.,
652861/2012, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 