-- Lakers’ Jordan to Interview for Rutgers Job, Trenton Times Says
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-04-13T04:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/lakers-eddie-jordan-offered-rutgers-coaching-job-yahoo-says.html
Los Angeles Lakers assistant Eddie Jordan will interview today for the men’s coaching job at
 Rutgers University , his alma mater, following a basketball
scandal that cost the former coach and athletic director their
jobs, The Times of Trenton  reported .  Jordan told the newspaper, which based its report of the
job interview on unidentified people close to the basketball
program, that he would be ideal for the position.  “The only college I would coach would be Rutgers, and I
believe it makes complete sense for me to be the next Rutgers
coach, or to at least be heavily considered,” Jordan told the
newspaper. “I am involved with the Lakers and the playoff race,
and all my interests are into this right now.”  Ten days after Mike Rice was fired by the  New Brunswick ,
New Jersey-based school for physically and verbally abusing his
players during practices, Jordan and Rutgers entered talks after
University of Rhode Island coach Danny Hurley turned down an
offer this week,  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  said on its sports website, citing
people it didn’t identify.  Rutgers spokesman Jason Baum said in an e-mail that he
couldn’t confirm the Yahoo report.  Athletic Director Tim Pernetti resigned on April 5, two
days after Rice was fired. Rice initially was suspended for
three games and fined $50,000 in December. He was fired soon
after video was aired nationally on ESPN of him throwing
basketballs and shoving players while using gay slurs and
vulgarities at practice from 2010 to 2012.  Coaching Career  Jordan, who played for Rutgers from 1973 to 1977, began his
coaching career as a Scarlet Knights volunteer assistant after
retiring as a National Basketball Association player in 1984.
Rutgers reached the Final Four of the National Collegiate
Athletic Association tournament when Jordan was a junior in
1976.  The 58-year-old Jordan was an NBA head coach for nine
seasons with the Sacramento Kings, Washington Wizards and
 Philadelphia 76ers , posting a 257-343 record.  A guard, he played seven NBA seasons, averaging 8.1 points
and 3.8 assists per game, while playing for the  Cleveland
Cavaliers ,  New Jersey Nets , Lakers and Portland Trail Blazers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  