-- Alabama Opens Way for Scottsboro Boys Pardon in Rape Case
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2013-04-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/alabama-to-pardon-scottsboro-boys-of-rape-82-years-later.html
Eight black teens who were
convicted 82 years ago by an all-white jury of raping two white
women in  Alabama  can now be posthumously pardoned by the state.  Republican Governor Robert Bentley, 70, has signed
legislation allowing the pardons of the so-called Scottsboro
Boys, saying he wanted to “right this wrong,” the Associated
Press said yesterday. Bentley has said he wanted to close a
chapter of state history that led to a landmark U.S. Supreme
Court decision against excluding blacks from juries.  The gubernatorially appointed Alabama Board of Pardons and
Parole must approve any pardon petition submitted for the dead
men. The news service said Bentley aides delivered the signed
legislation to the Secretary of State’s office yesterday, citing
a spokeswoman it didn’t identify. Until now, state law didn’t
allow posthumous pardons.  The case originated during the Depression, in 1931, after a
fight between two groups of teens -- one black, one white --
riding illegally on a train in northern Alabama.  The white riders complained to police, who searched the
train and found nine black boys and two white women, both of
whom later said they were raped.  Eight of the nine teens were sentenced to death. They
became known as the Scottsboro Boys because they were convicted
in a town in Alabama with that name.  Both women were discredited during a series of appeals, and
one later recanted her claim. None of the eight were executed.
All have since died, including the last of the Scottsboro Boys,
Clarence Norris, in 1989.  Bentley plans a ceremonial bill signing April 19 in
Scottsboro with the people who had worked to get the pardon
legislation passed, according to the  Associated Press . The news
service said the governor had to sign the bill earlier to meet a
deadline to act on measures passed by the legislature.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  