-- Alberta Looks at Renewable Energy Amid Push for Keystone
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-04-12T15:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/alberta-looks-at-renewable-energy-amid-push-for-keystone.html
Alberta may boost the use of
 renewable energy  to cut carbon dioxide emissions as the province
lobbies U.S. officials to approve  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone
XL pipeline.  Officials are in talks with companies that produce power
from wind and water turbines about the best way to spur more
development, Energy Minister Ken Hughes said yesterday in an
interview from his Edmonton office. Options include importing
hydro-electric power from Manitoba as well as changing policy to
increase hydro and wind-power development, he said.  “I’ve put the challenge out to the renewable industry to
bring forward proposals and ideas that might help us continue to
green the grid,” Hughes said. “We’ll be open to any specific
suggestions” proposed, including policy that boosts the use of
renewable power, he said.  Alberta is struggling to convince U.S. officials that its
efforts to reduce carbon-dioxide output are making a dent in
 oil-sands  emissions as Premier Alison Redford wraps up a trip to
 Washington  this week to lobby for the Keystone XL pipeline,
which would carry bitumen from the province’s oil-sands deposits
to refineries on the U.S. Gulf Coast. The U.S. State Department
is reviewing the $5.3 billion project because it would cross an
international border.  Companies that could benefit by supplying hydropower
equipment and wind turbines include  France ’s  Alstom SA (ALO) ,  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and  Vestas Wind Systems (VWS)  A/S of Denmark.  Change Perception  The western province,  Canada ’s fourth-most populous, is
responsible for a third of the nation’s greenhouse gas emissions
and the oil sands are among the fastest-growing sources,
according to the Calgary-based  Pembina Institute , an
environmental research group and consultancy.  Reducing emissions from Alberta’s coal  power plants  by
boosting renewables would change the perception of the
province’s efforts to tackle climate change, Matt Horne,
Pembina’s director of climate change research, said in an
interview.  “Certainly one of the motivators has been the pressure
around Keystone XL” for the province to address carbon output,
he said. “Coal is a big part of the emissions profile, with
three of the biggest sources of emissions in Canada coming from
coal-fired power plants in Alberta.”  “If there was action on the scale of what Ontario has done
on its coal phase-out, that would definitely shift the
conversation,” Horne said.  Deregulated Supply  Alberta is the only province in Canada with a deregulated
system of electricity generation, with companies such as
 TransAlta Corp. (TA)  producing power and selling it directly to
customers. Unlike Ontario, which implemented a feed-in tariff
for renewable energy in 2009 and plans to eliminate coal for
power generation, Alberta hasn’t provided any major incentives
to spur development of wind farms, solar power arrays or hydro,
according the Energy Ministry’s website.  Alberta’s dependency on coal for electricity is down to
about 40 percent, from 66 percent a few years ago, said Hughes.
The province has traditionally eschewed policy that offers
subsidies to renewable power generation.  “If they were really serious about environmental
stewardship, then they would concentrate on keeping the oil
underground,” said Daniel Kessler, a spokesman for 350.org, an
environmental group that opposes the Keystone XL pipeline.
“It’s tremendously important that they go after the coal
industry because the coal industry is a huge problem, but you
can’t go after one while facilitating the other.”  Renewable Resources  Alberta ’s wind and solar resources are among the best in
the country, and the region has the third-most installed wind
generating capacity in Canada after Ontario and  Quebec ,
according to the  Canadian Wind Energy Association . Wind power
accounts for about 6 percent of generation in Alberta.  In addition, the province has the potential to add as much
as 6 gigawatts of hydro output, according to a report published
last month by the provincial government. That’s the equivalent
of about half the current electricity production capacity in the
province.  “We’re glad to see Alberta turn its eye to its huge
undeveloped hydropower potential,” said Jacob Irving, president
of the Canadian Hydropower Association, by telephone from Ottawa
today. The province has more undeveloped hydropower potential
than the U.S., he said.  As part of its  climate change  policy, Alberta levies a fee
of C$15 ($15) a ton of carbon emitted by the larger producers.
The province is also spending C$1.3 billion on two carbon
capture and storage projects, a technology that removes the gas
during fossil fuel processing and buries it underground.  More action on climate change would allow Alberta to “earn
its social license to operate so that we have the full
confidence of our customers and have the opportunity to get our
products to market,” Hughes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  