-- Malone Says He’s Open to Pacts With U.S. Cable Companies
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-04-12T20:33:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/malone-says-he-s-open-to-pacts-with-other-u-s-cable-companies.html
John Malone , the billionaire
chairman of the Liberty group of companies, said he’d be
interested in agreements with U.S. cable carriers to move toward
an industry alliance.  Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR) , which got an investment last
month from  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA) , may consider transactions with
other cable companies, Malone said on CNBC. Liberty Media agreed
to buy a 27 percent stake in Charter last month for $2.62
billion,  “We can be exceptionally strong with that company for a
number of years, and in particular the rate of free  cash flow 
can be very, very strong, which allows it then to access the
leverage market in order to do roll-up transactions,
particularly where there’s horizontal synergies,” he said.
“That’s the growth scale, and then look for opportunities to
work with other cable companies to form a consortium.”  The model would be similar to the strategy of Tele-
Communications Inc., which Malone built decades ago into one of
the country’s biggest pay-TV companies. The Charter investment
marked the billionaire’s return to the U.S. industry after he
sold TCI to AT&T Corp. in 1999. In the meantime, he has focused
on the European pay-TV market, with investments through overseas
cable business Liberty Global Inc.  Regrets Sale  Malone said he regretted selling TCI to AT&T after
witnessing cable’s huge opportunity in broadband as the Internet
has expanded for consumers and businesses. Cable companies can
increase online speeds to 1 gigabit per second, about 75 to 100
times faster than the average U.S. connection today, with little
extra  capital investment , he said.  Malone also praised Charter Chief Executive Officer  Tom Rutledge , who took over in February 2012. Charter has already
taken steps to increase its size after announcing an acquisition
of Cablevision Systems Corp.’s Optimum West unit for $1.63
billion in February. Rutledge was Cablevision’s chief operating
officer before taking the job at Charter.  Borrowing money for acquisitions makes sense as long as
 interest rates  remain low, Malone said. Charter has $12.9
billion of debt and a market valuation of $10.6 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Benchmark 10-year
Treasury  yields  fell seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage
point, to 1.72 percent today.  Charter rose 0.2 percent to $105.06 at the close in New
York. The shares have gained 38 percent this year.  Alex Dudley , a Charter spokesman, declined to comment on
Malone’s remarks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  