-- Apollo Said to Sell $436 Million CLO for First Europe Deal
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-04-12T15:37:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/apollo-said-to-price-436-million-clo-for-first-european-deal.html
Leon Black ’s  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO)  priced an increased 334 million-euro ($436
million) collateralized loan obligation for its first deal in
Europe, according to three people with knowledge of the matter.  The ALME Loan Funding 2013-1 Ltd. includes 195 million
euros of AAA rated notes paying 130 basis points more than the
euro interbank offered rate, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the deal is private. The deal was
increased from 306.5 million euros it sought in March, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investor demand for structured credit products allowed the
New York-based firm to price the transaction at lower spreads
than proposed last month. The deal brings the issuance volume in
 Europe  to almost 1 billion euros this year after Cairn Capital
Ltd. and Pramerica Investment Management Ltd. sold their CLOs.  The spread for AAA rated portions of new European CLOs may
fall to 120 basis points by the end of the year, according to a
JPMorgan Chase & Co. research report citing a client survey.
Cairn sold the top-rated portion of its European CLO at a spread
of 140 basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan forecast 3 billion euros of
European CLO this year.  CLO Spreads  The 27 million-euro AA-ranked portion of the Apollo CLO was
priced at 185 basis points more than Euribor, compared with 225
basis points originally proposed, said the people. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  Citigroup arranged the CLO that has a three-year
reinvestment period and settlement on May 15, 2013, the people
said.  Apollo manages more than $64 billion of credit investments,
including $20 billion in senior secured loans.  Charles Zehren , a spokesman for Apollo in  New York ,
declined to comment. A spokesman for Citigroup in  London , who
asked not to be identified citing company policy, couldn’t
immediately comment.  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and return.  Details of the CLO are as follows:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  