-- Argentine Consumer Prices Rose at Lowest Pace Since November
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2013-04-12T19:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/argentine-consumer-prices-rose-at-lowest-pace-since-november.html
Argentina’s  consumer prices  rose
10.6 percent in March from a year earlier, the slowest pace
since November, after supermarkets and home appliance stores
agreed to freeze prices until June 1.  Last month, prices rose 0.7 percent, the national
statistics agency reported today, above the median estimate of
0.6 percent of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Retailers agreed with the government of President Cristina
Fernandez de Kirchner since February to keep prices on hold in a
bid to slow inflation, fueled by wage increases of about 25
percent a year and increased public spending. This week the
government set a cap on gasoline prices until October.  Official data contrasted with estimates by private
economists, who have released their indexes through opposition
lawmakers since 2011 in order to avoid government fines.
Yesterday, opposition lawmakers said prices rose 24.4 percent in
March from a year earlier and 1.5 percent from February, citing
the average of private estimates.  “Historically, price controls have never worked,” said
Claudio Loser, former Western Hemisphere director at the
International Monetary Fund. “They keep issuing money, they
have a complicated fiscal situation, the central bank continues
to finance the government. There’s no reason to think that the
inflation rate won’t rise further.”  Inflation estimates by private economists have been above
the official data since early 2007, when Fernandez’s husband and
predecessor, Nestor Kirchner, changed personnel at the
statistics agency, known as Indec. The IMF has urged the
government to release more reliable data and on Feb. 1 Argentina
became the first country to be censured by the Washington-based
lender for not providing accurate data.  Inflation-linked bonds lost 2 percent so far this year,
compared with a 1.4 percent gain for Brazilian bonds and a 14.9
return for similar securities in Mexico.  Argentina will have a new index, that will take prices from
urban areas nationwide, in September, Norberto Itzcovich,
director at the statistics agency, told state-run news agency
Telam on April 3.  Loser said that it doesn’t matter what methodology the
country decides to use to measure inflation as the government
seeks to rebuild confidence in the index so long as the data is
inaccurate.  “If you put in wrong numbers, it doesn’t matter the
technical quality of the index,” said Loser, who now runs the
Centennial Group Latin America research company in Washington.
“They are talking about new indexes, but they won’t take new
actions before the elections to correct inflation measures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  