-- Martha Stewart, GE, Merck, Mylan: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-04-12T11:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/martha-stewart-ge-merck-mylan-intellectual-property.html
Macy’s Inc. will ask a judge to
expand the scope of his order blocking  J.C. Penney (JCP)  Co. from
selling goods designed by Martha Stewart’s company in certain
categories even if they don’t carry her name or trademark.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Jeffrey K. Oing is
scheduled to hear arguments today in Manhattan to broaden a
preliminary injunction he issued in July keeping  Martha Stewart
Living Omnimedia Inc. (MSO)  from selling goods with Stewart’s name at
J.C. Penney in categories exclusive to Macy’s, including soft
home goods and cookware.  Macy’s wants Oing to extend the injunction to cover goods
designed by Stewart’s company that don’t carry her name, which
J.C. Penney plans to sell under the name “JCP Everyday.”
Macy’s also wants Oing to declare that plastic partyware sold at
J.C. Penney under the name  “MarthaCelebrations”  violates his
injunction and should be pulled from the shelves.  Oing on April 10 dismissed one of the two claims in Macy’s
suit against  Martha Stewart  Living, saying that Macy’s hadn’t
proved that the company violated a confidentiality provision of
their contract.  The judge yesterday denied a motion by New York-based
Martha Stewart Living to dismiss the second breach-of-contract
claim as it relates to whether the company can design products
for other retailers in the exclusive categories.  The judge granted Martha Stewart Living’s motion to dismiss
a claim for damages related to disgorgement, saying that
Cincinnati-based Macy’s isn’t entitled to part of a design fee
paid to the company by J.C. Penney, which is based in Plano,
Texas.  Oing also granted a motion to dismiss one of three claims
in Macy’s suit against J.C. Penney. The judge threw out a claim
for intentional contract interference. Oing said he will rule
today on a bid by J.C. Penney to dismiss a second claim of
unfair competition.  The cases are  Macy’s Inc. (M)  v. Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc., 650197/2012; Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney Corp.,
652861/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Patent  General Electric Offers Some Patents for Crowdsourcing  General Electric Co. (GE)  entered into an unusual arrangement
with Quirky Inc., a site that helps individuals create consumer
products. Under the agreement, announced April 10, GE will make
available its patents for use by inventors and entrepreneurs.  A GE spokeswoman, Leigh Farris, said in a phone interview
yesterday that initially GE would make “200 of its 30,000
patents available across its product lines, but may increase
that number to 1,000 over the course of the year.” GE will
receive royalties on any products in which its patents are used,
she said.  “GE and Quirky have been working together for some time
and worked together in a variety of ways,” Farris said. While
GE has sublicensed its patents before, the company “has never
made a quantity like this available to a broader platform.” She
said the arrangement is “very much an experiment.”  In a statement announcing the deal, Quirky founder Ben
Kaufman said: “We are going to return patents to their original
purpose to act as a blueprint for technological and societal
progress while protecting inventors and becoming a source of
inspiration for future creators.”  Merck Victory Upholding Vytorin Patents Will Stand, Court Says  Merck & Co.’s February victory upholding the validity of
its patents on the cholesterol drugs Zetia and Vytorin will
stand, a U.S. appeals court said yesterday.  Mylan Inc. asked the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal
Circuit to reconsider that decision. That request was denied,
according to a notice posted on the court’s website. Together,
the drugs had about $2 billion in U.S. sales last year, and the
ruling will prevent Mylan from selling generic versions of the
drugs before April 2017.  Gevo Wins Court Ruling in Butamax Biofuels Patent Lawsuit  Gevo Inc. (GEVO) , a biofuel chemical development company, won a
court ruling in its favor as part of a series of patent-
infringement lawsuits with Butamax Advanced Biofuels LLC, a
joint venture of DuPont Co. and  BP Plc. (BP/)   U.S. District Judge Sue Robinson in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
found that some claims of one Butamax patent were invalid and
that Butamax admitted that Gevo didn’t infringe another patent,
according to court papers.  “There is no just reason for delay in entering final
judgment” on those patent challenges, Robinson wrote April 10
after ruling two weeks ago on two patents. The entering of a
final judgment allows Butamax to appeal.  The judge severed claims involving two other patents in
continuing litigation between the two companies involving at
least 15 different cases in the same court, according to court
papers.  Butamax sued Gevo in 2011, alleging misuse of technology
for genetically engineered microorganisms used to produce
biofuels. Gevo is in a joint venture to make the chemicals with
the oil refiner Total SA and specialty-chemicals maker  Lanxess
AG. (LXS)   “Butamax strongly disagrees with the court’s claim
construction” and has decided to appeal the case, said a
company spokesman, Mark Buse.  The case is Butamax v. Gevo, 11-cv-00054, U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  CA Technologies Sues AppDynamics Over IT Management Patents  CA Technologies (CA) , a maker of software for managing
 information technology , filed a patent infringement suit against
AppDynamics Inc., a company started by a former CA Inc.
employee.  AppDynamics’ founder, Jyoti Bansal, previously worked at CA
on developing products related to the three IT patents,
Islandia, New York-based CA said in a complaint made public
yesterday in  Central Islip , New York, federal court.  AppDynamics, a San Francisco-based provider of application
performance-management software for the entertainment, retail
and gambling industries, has “actual knowledge of the patents-
in-suit and hasn’t ceased its infringing activities,” CA said
in its complaint.  CA, the world’s sixth-largest maker of infrastructure
software by market share, acquired the patents when it  bought 
Wily Technology in 2006 for $375 million, according to the
company. Bansal formerly “led the design and architecture for
several products” at Wily and founded AppDynamics in 2008,
according to the San Francisco company’s  website .  In November, CA sued San Francisco-based New Relic Inc.,
also asserting that it had infringed patents obtained through
the acquisition of Wily. New Relic was founded by Lewis Cirne,
formerly a senior Wily executive, according to CA. That suit is
pending.  Greg Howard, a spokesman for AppDynamics, said in an e-mail
that the company hasn’t received the official paperwork.  “We do strongly believe” AppDynamics doesn’t infringe
upon any protected  intellectual property , he said.  The case is CA Inc. v. AppDynamics Inc., 2:13-cv-02111,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York (Central
Islip).  Counterfeits  Billionaire William Koch May Win More Fake Wine Trial Damages  Billionaire William Koch won a fraud lawsuit in which he
claimed a consigner sold him 24 counterfeit bottles of wine from
France’s Bordeaux region and may get punitive damages as the
jury resumes deliberations.  The federal jury in Manhattan yesterday found against the
consigner, Eric Greenberg, concluding he made fraudulent
misrepresentations about the authenticity and provenance of the
wine, including many purported grand crus that cost Koch tens of
thousands of dollars. The jury awarded Koch $379,000 in damages,
comprising the amount he paid for the wine at a 2005 auction and
$1,000 in compensatory damages for each bottle.  The jury of six men and two women, who heard Koch and
Greenberg testify during the three-week trial, are scheduled to
return to court today to consider punitive damages. Koch, the
brother of conservative Tea Party funders  David Koch  and  Charles
Koch , is the founder of West Palm Beach, Florida-based Oxbow
Carbon & Minerals LLC.  Koch estimated that hundreds of millions of dollars in
counterfeit wine have flooded the vintage market.  Greenberg and his lawyers declined to comment on the
verdict after court.  Arthur Shartsis, a lawyer for Greenberg, argued that his
client hadn’t misrepresented the wines and had instead relied
upon wine experts to inspect and authenticate his bottles for
the sale.  The wines at issue included a purported 1864 Chateau Latour
bottle, which Koch bought for $14,160, two 1950 Chateau Petrus
magnums he bought for $20,060 each, and a 1921 Chateau Petrus
magnum that cost Koch $29,500.  The case is Koch v. Greenberg, 07-cv-09600, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets  Researcher Accused of Drug Theft for China Pleads Not Guilty  A  Medical College of Wisconsin  researcher accused of
stealing a developmental cancer drug to deliver it to a Chinese
university pleaded not guilty to charges of computer tampering
and lying to federal agents.  Hua Jun Zhao, who was indicted by a federal grand jury on
April 9, entered his plea yesterday before U.S. Magistrate Judge
Patricia Gorence in Milwaukee. He’s being held without bail.  Zhao, 42, initially was accused of economic espionage in a
criminal complaint filed on March 29. Gerald Shinneman of the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  said in an accompanying
affidavit that surveillance cameras showed Zhao to be the only
person to enter and leave a medical college office at the time
three vials of the medicinal compound vanished in February.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen Ingraham yesterday asked
Gorence to dismiss the criminal complaint while leaving
prosecutors with permission to refile those allegations at a
later date.  Zhao’s defense lawyer, Juval Scott, said yesterday in a
phone interview, “We’re looking forward to getting information
from the government and starting our own investigation.”  The case is U.S. v. Zhao, 13-cr-00058, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Wisconsin (Milwaukee).  Internet  Google Sued for ‘Cynical Manipulation’ as EU Probes Advance  Google Inc. (GOOG) , operator of the world’s largest search engine,
was sued in London by a U.K. Internet company for promoting its
own maps over those of competitors in what it claimed was
“Google’s cynical manipulation of search results.”  Streetmap, a provider of Internet maps, filed a complaint
in London March 15, according to court records. Google’s actions
have made its products “harder to find,” the U.K.-based
company alleged in an April 10 statement. It’s at least the
second such lawsuit filed against Google since June.  Streetmap said its complaint mirrors an antitrust probe by
the European Union into whether Google favors its own services
over competitors in search results.  “We have had to take this action in an effort to protect
our business and attract attention to those that, like us, have
started their own technology businesses, only to find them
damaged by Google’s cynical manipulation of search results,”
Kate Sutton, commercial director of Streetmap, said in the
statement.  Google has submitted an offer to the EU that will soon be
shown to rivals and customers as part of settlement talks to end
the probe into claims that its search results discriminate
competitors. EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  told
reporters in Washington yesterday that its goal is to “secure
legally binding commitments” from Mountain View, California-
based Google as part of the settlement negotiations.  Tom Price , a spokesman for Google, declined to comment
yesterday on the allegations, saying in an e-mailed statement
that he hadn’t seen the Streetmap complaint.  The case is Streetmap.eu Ltd. v. Google Inc., case no
13-1013,  High Court  of Justice,  Chancery Division .  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  