-- Harvard Private Equity Head Peter Dolan Said to Leave Endowment
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-04-12T18:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/harvard-private-equity-head-peter-dolan-said-to-leave-endowment.html
 Peter Dolan has left Harvard
Management Co. where he oversaw the private equity and venture
capital portfolio, according to a person with knowledge of the
matter.  Dolan left as of April 10, said the person, who declined to
be identified because the departure hasn’t been made public.  Harvard, the world’s richest university with a $30.4
billion endowment, is seeking to rebound from a lackluster
performance after it lost 0.05 percent on investments in the
year ended June 30. Private equity, which generated annual
average returns of more than 20 percent for Harvard over 20
years,  gained  1.99 percent last year, compared with a benchmark
of 4.04 percent, according to the school’s annual report.  Dolan  joined  Harvard Management, the Boston-based arm of
the university that oversees the endowment investments, in 1995
after working for consultant Cambridge Associates and Liberty
Mutual Insurance Co. He has a bachelor’s degree from Harvard and
a master’s from the  University of Virginia .  The departure was first reported by Fortune magazine’s Term
Sheet newsletter. A spokesman for Harvard declined to comment.  Harvard had more than $7 billion  invested  in private
equities, making it the second-largest segment of its portfolio,
according to the annual report. Jane Mendillo, the head of
Harvard Management, said last year the endowment is seeking to
regain its edge by investing directly in more real assets such
as natural resources while limiting increases in private equity,
where returns have weakened in recent years.  Separately, the university in February bolstered its
connections to the industry by naming James Breyer, a partner at
venture-capital firm  Accel Partners , to its governing body,
known as the Harvard Corporation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  