-- Harvard’s Chetty Cited by Obama Wins Young Economist Award
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2013-04-12T21:52:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/harvard-s-chetty-cited-by-obama-wins-clark-young-economist-award.html
Raj Chetty, a Harvard University
professor whose work on education has been cited by President
 Barack Obama , won the John Bates Clark young economist award.  “Raj Chetty is a remarkably productive economist whose
contributions assimilate evidence using a variety of
methodological perspectives to shed new light on important
public policy questions,” the American Economic Association
said in a statement today announcing the award. “He has
established himself in a few short years as arguably the best
applied microeconomist of his generation.”  Chetty, 33, has been an economics professor at Harvard in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, since 2009 and previously taught at
the  University of California , Berkeley. His work encompasses  tax
policy , unemployment and other social insurance, and education.  In a December 2011  paper  with fellow Harvard professor John
Friedman and Jonah Rockoff of  Columbia University , Chetty found
that “high value-added” teachers can boost the long-run
earnings of their kindergarten students.  The research was cited by Obama in his  State of the Union 
address last year and by New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  in his
2012  State of the City  address. Bloomberg is founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg
News .  “I’m very happy to see the evidence showing up in the
policy discussion,” Chetty said in a telephone interview,
referring to the research on teachers.  Equal Opportunity  He said the “broad theme” underlying his work was to use
scientific evidence and data collection to try to analyze
important social and economic questions. His current focus, he
added, is “on equality of opportunity in America.”  “A lot of my interest is figuring out how we can give
kids, especially from disadvantaged backgrounds, better
opportunities,” he said.  Chetty received his doctorate in economics from Harvard in
2003, and was awarded the MacArthur Foundation Fellowship, known
as the “genius” award, last year. A U.S. citizen, he was born
in  New Delhi  in 1979 and raised after age 9 in the  United
States .  “I was quite surprised” to hear about the award, Chetty
said. “I was having lunch with my wife so it was a nice time to
find out,” he added.  Chetty said another theme of his work is the importance of
behavioral traits in explaining peoples’ economic decisions.  His research found that workers were more likely to
participate in their company’s retirement plans if they were
automatically enrolled than if they were simply offered more
monetary incentives to join.  Inattention, Inertia  “Behavioral economics issues like inattention and inertia
tend to be as important as prices and economic incentives,” he
said.  In what the  association  called Chetty’s most cited
research, he concluded that retailers would lose business if
they posted prices including sales taxes, rather than excluding
them, even though consumers were aware of the taxes either way.  His work on  unemployment insurance  suggested that current
benefits may be too low because they fail to take account of the
fixed costs that those who lose their jobs face, such as paying
a mortgage, according to the association.  “He’s a very versatile, very wide-ranging applied
microeconomist,” said James Poterba, president of the National
Bureau of  Economic Research , which is responsible for dating the
beginnings and endings of recessions.  Data Pioneer  Chetty has been a “pioneer” in using large data sets,
such as tax returns and education records, in his research, said
Poterba, who also is a professor of economics at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  in Cambridge.  The John Bates Clark medal, started in 1947 as a biennial
prize, is now being awarded annually to the American economist
under the age of 40 who is judged to have made “the most
significant contribution to economic thought and knowledge,”
according to the association.  It is named after the U.S. economist, who died in 1938
after spending most of his career teaching at Columbia
University in New York.  Past winners of the award include the late  Milton Friedman ,
New York Times columnist and Princeton University professor  Paul
Krugman , and  Lawrence Summers , former director of President
Barack Obama’s National Economic Council.  “It’s a great honor to be on this list,” Chetty said.  Data compiled by Bloomberg News show that recipients of the
medal have about a one-in-three chance of eventually winning the
 Nobel Prize  in economics.  Amy Finkelstein, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, won the medal last year for her work on the
economics of health care.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  