-- Las Vegas Sands Said to Consider Special Dividend Payment
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-04-13T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/las-vegas-sands-said-to-consider-special-dividend-payment.html
Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , the casino
company controlled by  Sheldon Adelson , will consider a special
dividend or stock buyback at a board meeting late this month,
according to a person close to the company.  A dividend or buyback would further Adelson’s stated goal
of returning cash to shareholders of Las Vegas-based Sands, said
the person, who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly. The company
had $2.51 billion in  cash  at year end.  Sands, the largest U.S.-based casino company, paid $3.09
billion in dividends last year, including a $2.75-a-share
special payment in December, according to its annual report.
Adelson, 79, who owns about 52 percent of Sands stock, collected
$1.62 billion.  “It is gratifying that we have now built our business and
cash flows and strengthened our balance sheet to a degree that
we were able to return such a substantial sum while retaining
sufficient liquidity to fund our promising growth
opportunities,” Adelson, the company’s chairman and chief
executive officer, said on a January conference call.  Las Vegas Sands rose 1.9 percent to $55.99 yesterday in New
York. The stock has gained 21 percent this year,  compared  with
an 11 percent advance for the S&P 500.  Gambling revenue in Macau, where Las Vegas Sands owns
casinos, rose 25 percent in March, more than double the February
pace, according to Bloomberg Industries research.  Revenue on
the Las Vegas Strip, where the company operates the Venetian
Resort Hotel and Casino, rose 31 percent in February, the latest
period available, according to the Nevada Gaming Control Board.  Macau Resort  Sands is building a new resort in Macau, while considering
opportunities in South Korea, Japan and Spain. Adelson, who
ranks 16th on the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  with an estimated
net worth of $26.8 billion, said on the January call that the
company will only pursue projects that generate returns of 20
percent.  Investors oppose the proposed Madrid development, Harry Curtis, a Nomura Securities analyst, wrote in an Oct. 17 report,
citing its multibillion dollar cost.  In a trial under way in Nevada state court, businessman
Richard Suen has sued Las Vegas Sands, claiming he is owed $328
million for helping the company win a license in 2002 to operate
casinos in Macau.  In testimony this month, Adelson credited his company’s
vision and expertise, not Suen’s efforts.  Adelson and his wife Miriam, were the largest donors to
political action committees in last year’s presidential
election, contributing $92.8 million to conservative campaigns,
according to the Washington-based  Center for Responsive
Politics .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  