-- Ashland Climbs as Jana Stake Seen Hastening Breakup
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-04-12T20:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/ashland-climbs-as-jana-stake-seen-hastening-breakup.html
Ashland Inc. (ASH) , the biggest producer
of specialty papermaking chemicals, rose the most in 17 months
on speculation that a 7.4 percent stake acquired by activist
investor Jana Partners LLC may lead to a breakup of the company.  Ashland climbed 9.9 percent to $86.66 at the close in  New
York , the biggest gain since Nov. 30, 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The shares had dropped 2 percent this
year before today.  Jana owned 5.81 million Ashland shares as of April 10,
including options to buy stock, the New York-based company said
yesterday in a regulatory filing.  Jana’s investment draws
attention to Ashland’s undervalued shares and should influence
management to hasten plans for boosting value, said  Chris Shaw ,
an analyst at Monness Crespi Hardt & Co.  “Jana could very well push for a breakup, seeking a sale
of non-core businesses like water and performance materials,”
New York-based Shaw said in a note today. “We think there could
be a high likelihood that asset sales happen.” He recommends
buying the shares.  Jana has spoken with Ashland management and may take steps
“to bring about changes to increase  shareholder value ,” the
hedge fund said in the filing. The shares are undervalued, Jana
said.  Gary L. Rhodes, a spokesman for Covington, Kentucky-based
Ashland, and Charles Penner, a spokesman for Jana, declined to
comment today.  Performance Units  Ashland’s water treatment and performance-materials units,
which makes chemicals used in packaging, mining, tires and
energy production, are the smallest of four businesses and
accounted for 40 percent of the company’s $8.21 billion of
revenue last year, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Water treatment and performance materials would sell for a
higher multiple than Ashland as a whole trades for, and
divestitures would boost the value of the two remaining
businesses, including the consumer markets business, which makes
Valvoline motor oil, Shaw said.  Ashland said last month that fiscal second-quarter profit
will be lower than forecast because of weaker-than-expected
demand in February. That followed first-quarter earnings that
trailed analysts’ estimates because of lower sales volumes in
the specialty-ingredients unit.  Jana, which has been pushing for changes at Calgary-based
fertilizer producer  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  since May, said executives spoke
with Ashland management about “the business, capitalization,
corporate structure, operations, strategy and future plans,”
according to the filing. Jana said it expects to have more
discussions with Ashland managers and possibly with directors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  