-- Commodities Slump as ‘Death Bell Rings’; U.S. Stocks Drop
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-04-12T20:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/asian-stocks-drop-as-yen-trades-near-4-year-low-gasoline-gains.html
Metals and energy sank, sending a
gauge of commodities to an eight-month low and extending a slump
that Citigroup Inc. said may mark the “death bell” for the
four-year rally in materials. The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SXXP) 
fell from a record as retail sales and consumer confidence slid.  The S&P/GSCI Index tumbled 1.3 percent to the lowest level
since July. Gold futures plunged as much as 5.3 percent to trade
below $1,500 for the first time since 2011 and entered a bear
market, amid speculation Cyprus will sell reserves to raise
cash. The S&P 500 Index slipped 0.3 percent, while emerging
market  technology stocks  fell the most since August after
Infosys Ltd.’s sales forecast missed estimates. The 10-year
Treasury  note yield  lost seven basis points to 1.72 percent,
while the dollar strengthened versus 10 of 16 major peers.  U.S. retail sales fell in March by the most in nine months,
Commerce Department figures showed, and the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of consumer
sentiment sank to the lowest level since July. European stocks
and the euro fell earlier as the currency bloc’s finance
ministers prepared to meet. Citigroup analysts said there will
be “many more losers than winners” for commodities this
quarter and most industrial and precious metals will decline.  “It’s partly driven by a number of investors who have come
to the conclusion that it’s not attractive to be in commodities,
especially with what’s going on in the stock market,” said
Jesper Dannesboe, senior commodity strategist at Societe
Generale SA in  London . “When people see gold going down, that
might have reinforced selling in other commodities. We think
it’s overdone in base metals, in oil, because the global economy
is recovering. In gold, this is the beginning of the bear
market.”  Commodity Watch  Fourteen of the 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI
Index retreated as the gauge extended its retreat since Feb. 14
to more than 8 percent. Gold has tumbled more than 21 percent
from a record settlement of $1,891.90 in August 2011, meeting
the common definition of a bear market.  West Texas Intermediate oil for May delivery fell 2.4
percent to a one-month low of $91.29 a barrel and Brent crude
for May settlement slid 1.2 percent to $103.06 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The International
Energy Agency yesterday reduced its estimates for global oil
demand.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said the
profits of any gold sales by the Cypriot central bank must be
used to cover losses it may sustain from emergency loans to
Cypriot commercial banks. European creditors today left a
possible gold sale in the hands of the Cypriot central bank,
which manages 13.9 metric tons of the metal, according to the
World Gold Council.  Cyprus Gold  The head of Cyprus’s central bank said the government is
attacking his institution’s independence and doesn’t have the
right to sell the nation’s gold reserves without the central
bank’s consent. The central bank is at loggerheads with the
government of President Nicos Anastasiades as Cyprus finalizes a
17-billion-euro ($22 billion) bailout agreement that will shrink
its banking sector and tax deposits of more than 100,000 euros.  “The independence of the central bank of Cyprus is being
attacked at this time,” Panicos Demetriades, who is also a
member of the European Central Bank’s Governing Council, said in
an interview in Dublin today. “The government seems to have
committed to a sale of state gold without consulting the central
bank,” Demetriades said.  Gold ETF  Holdings in the  SPDR Gold Trust (GLD) , the top exchange-traded
fund backed by bullion, reached 1,181.4 metric tons yesterday,
the lowest in almost three years. Through yesterday, prices
slumped 6.6 percent in 2013 as global economies improved.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Gold ETF Volatility
Index, which measures the cost of options on the gold fund,
soared 39 percent to 21.32 for its biggest gain on record and
its highest close since June 15. The gauge gained 6.3 percent
this year through yesterday.  Minutes of the Federal Reserve’s March meeting released
April 10 showed several members were in favor of pulling back on
its $85 billion monthly debt-buying program this year. The metal
climbed for 12 straight years through 2012 partly as central
banks expanded their balance sheets.  Record S&P 500  The Fed’s unprecedented bond purchases and three straight
years of profit growth helped send the S&P 500 up almost 136
percent from its bear-market low in 2009. The benchmark index
closed yesterday at a record 1,593.37. Short covering and new
investments by money managers also helped keep U.S. stocks at
record highs.  A basket  of S&P 500 stocks with the most bearish
bets rose 4.8 percent this week, according to Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. data.  Analysts forecast S&P 500 earnings fell last quarter for
the first time since 2009, projecting a 1.4 percent decrease
from the first quarter of 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Profit growth is projected to return later in the
year, with full-year earnings forecast to increase 7.3 percent,
the data show.  The 0.4 percent decrease in retail sales, the biggest since
June, followed a 1 percent gain in February, according to the
Commerce Department. The median forecast of 85 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for an unchanged reading in March.
Department stores and electronics dealers were among the weakest
showings. The Reuters/Michigan  consumer-confidence  index fell to
72.3 in April, below all 69 estimates in a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  ‘Weak Note’  “The first quarter really ended up on a weak note,” David Chalupnik, head of equities at Nuveen Asset Management in
 Minneapolis , said in a phone interview. His firm manages $120
billion. “We’re concerned that with the economy ending on a
weak note, the commentary from companies as they report might be
a bit negative compared with what people are expecting and that
could put pressure on the market.”  Gauges of commodity and energy producers in the S&P 500
lost at least 1.3 percent today for the biggest declines among
10 industries. DuPont Co., Alcoa Inc., Chevron Corp. and Bank of
America Corp. lost at least 0.8 percent for the biggest declines
in the Dow Jones Industrial Average.  Banks slipped 1.1 percent as a group. Wells Fargo & Co.
slid 0.8 percent after results showed revenue dropped and
lending margins narrowed, overshadowing record first-quarter
profit that was helped by cost cuts. JPMorgan Chase & Co.
slipped 0.6 percent after reporting record profit that beat
estimates on cost cuts and an improvement in consumer credit
quality that let the bank reduce loan-loss reserves.  Market Movers  Harris Corp. slid 5.4 percent after forecasting revenue
that missed analysts’ estimates. J.B. Hunt Transport Services
Inc. lost 3 percent after posting first-quarter earnings that
missed projections.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.9 percent as automakers,
commodity producers and banks led declines. The gauge capped a
1.8 percent gain this week, its best in a month.  Cap Gemini, Atos and Software AG lost more than 2.5 percent
today on Infosys’s sales forecast. Telecom Italia SpA advanced
3.8 percent after saying Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. would want
control of the combined entity formed in a possible merger.  The yen strengthened at least 0.6 percent against all of
its 16 major peers, climbing the most against the South African
rand and Australian, Mexican and New Zealand currencies. It
appreciated 1 percent to 98.67 per dollar after slumping to a
four-year low this week.  Japan Stimulus  Bank of  Japan  chief Haruhiko Kuroda this week reiterated a
pledge to do what’s needed to meet an inflation target of 2
percent in two years. The BOJ said last week it will buy 7.5
trillion yen ($75 billion) of bonds a month and double its
monetary base in two years, driving the 10-year yields in Asia’s
second-biggest economy to as little as 0.33 percent.  Japanese investors  bought  a net 645 billion yen ($6.5
billion) of foreign securities in the week ended March 23,
according to Japan’s Ministry of Finance. That’s the highest
level since the data began in 2005. Purchases reached 1.61
trillion in March, also a record, the data show.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell for the first time in
four days, losing 0.9 percent. Infosys,  India ’s second-largest
software exporter, plunged 21 percent, the most in 10 years, and
India’s Sensex index sank 1.6 percent, the most in a week.
 Brazil ’s Bovespa slipped 0.8 percent, paring a 1.7 percent slide
after Mines & Energy Minister Edison Lobao said in an interview
in Brasilia that mining companies may avoid special
participation taxes. Shares of iron-ore producer Vale SA rose
0.6 percent, reversing a 2.9 percent slump.  The Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.6 percent before a
report on  China ’s first-quarter economic growth on April 15.
Russia’s Micex Index sank 1.1 percent.  South Korea’s Kospi index slid 1.3 percent and the won
snapped a three-day rally. The U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency
has reported that North Korea now has some nuclear weapons small
enough to be delivered by its ballistic missiles. The DIA
cautioned in a classified report last month that it has only
“moderate confidence” in that finding, which also said the
reliability of North Korea’s missiles “will be low.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  