-- Asia Dollar Bond Sales Surge to Record as Sinopec Plans Issue
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-04-12T04:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/asia-dollar-bond-sales-surge-to-record-as-sinopec-plans-issue.html
China Petroleum and Chemical Corp.
and  Beijing Enterprises Water Group Ltd. (371)  are planning to sell
U.S. dollar-denominated bonds as weekly sales in  Asia  outside of
 Japan  surged more than 50 times to a record. Debt risk in the
region fell.  Sinopec, as the petroleum refiner and crude oil producer is
known, will meet fixed-income investors in Asia,  Europe  and the
U.S. from April 15, according to a person familiar with the
matter. Beijing Enterprises Water, a Hong Kong-listed  water
treatment system developer , hired five banks to arrange its
issue, according to a statement to the city’s exchange.
Offerings in the region touched $7.6 billion this week as eight
borrowers sold debt, compared with $150 million from one company
in the previous five business days, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The Republic of  Indonesia , which issued $3 billion of notes
April 8, is this year’s biggest borrower, followed by China
National Petroleum Corp. which sold  $2 billion  of debt April 9,
Bloomberg data show.  State Bank  of  India , the nation’s largest
lender by assets, sold $1 billion of securities yesterday. The
cost of borrowing in the U.S. currency for issuers in the region
fell to a five-week low of 4.26 percent on April 8, and was at
 4.27 percent  yesterday, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
indexes.  “With bond yields so low, issuers are attracted to come
now,” said Shankar Narayanaswamy, the Singapore-based global
head of credit strategy at Standard Chartered Plc. “It’s pure
coincidence they all came in the same week.”  Sinopec Proceeds  Yingde Gases Investment Ltd. is also marketing five-year
dollar notes at about 8.5 percent, a person familiar with the
matter said today, declining to be identified because the terms
aren’t set. Yingde Gases hasn’t sold bonds before, Bloomberg
data show.  Sinopec will use the proceeds of its sale to fund the
acquisition of some overseas assets, invest in offshore
businesses and repay bank debt, according to a  Hong Kong  stock
exchange statement.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan declined 1 basis point to 112 basis
points as of 8:29 a.m. in Hong Kong, Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices show. The gauge is set for its lowest close
since before the current series started trading on March 20,
according to data provider CMA.  Japan, Australia  The Markit iTraxx Japan index fell 3 basis points to 87 as
of 9:15 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Citigroup Inc. prices. That
level would be its lowest close since April 2010, according to
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the private market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index decreased 0.75 of a basis
point to 111 as of 10:14 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac
Banking Corp. prices. The benchmark was last lower on March 19,
the day before the current series began, CMA data show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  