-- Asian Stocks Fall From 20-Month High as Yen Strengthens
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-04-12T12:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/asia-stocks-drop-first-day-in-five-paring-weekly-gaib.html
Asian  stocks  fell from the highest
level in 20 months, paring the biggest weekly advance since
September. Most Japanese shares dropped as the yen strengthened
against the dollar.  GS Engineering & Construction Corp. (006360)  tumbled by the daily 15
percent limit in  Seoul  for a second day after reporting an
unexpected loss.  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  slumped the most in 10 years as
 India ’s second-largest software exporter forecast sales that
missed estimates. Kyushu Electric Power Co. led a surge in
 Japanese electricity companies  after SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
said it was bullish on the industry’s earnings outlook.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 0.2 percent to 137.87 as
of 9:19 p.m. in  Tokyo , with five stocks falling for every four
that rose. The gauge climbed 3.3 percent this week and rose the
past five months on speculation Japan would do more to boost the
economy and amid signs the U.S economy is recovering.  “The big question at the moment is whether or not the
rally is sustainable,” said Masahiko Ejiri, a Tokyo-based  fund
manager  for Mizuho Asset Management Co., which oversees about
$45 billion. “There still should be a very reasonable amount of
money to come into Japan. We have not seen any significant
change in the structure of the Japanese economy. Monetary
stimulus is easy to do, but to change the economy is hard.”  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average lost 0.5 percent, with
volume 45 percent higher than the 30-day average for the time of
day, as April options contracts settled. The yen gained as much
as 0.5 percent to 99.21 per dollar.  Regional Gauges  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. boosted its outlook on Japanese
shares for the fourth time this year, citing the Bank of  Japan ’s
“credible commitment” to beat deflation. Governor Haruhiko
Kuroda today said the central bank will not set a time limit for
easing and will continue until it achieves sustainable
inflation.  Australia ’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  added 0.1 percent and South
Korea’s Kospi index slid 1.3 percent. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
rose 0.6 percent and Taiwan’s Taiex Index lost 0.5 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index retreated 0.1 percent and
 China ’s Shanghai Composite dropped 0.6 percent, extending a
third week of declines, before the release of China’s economic
growth data next week.  China’s National Bureau of Statistics will release first-
quarter economic growth data on April 15 along with March
figures for industrial production and retail sales plus first-
quarter fixed-asset investment. The world’s second-largest
economy probably grew 8 percent from a year earlier in the
January-March period, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of analysts, down from an 8.2 percent
projection in February.  Singapore GDP  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index slipped 0.4 percent as a
report showed the nation’s economy unexpectedly contracted last
quarter as companies grappled with a labor shortage and exports
faltered amid an uneven global recovery.  GS Engineering lost 15 percent to 35,700 won. The Seoul-
based builder posted an operating loss of 535.4 billion won
($474 million) for the first quarter, the company said April 10.  Infosys plunged 21 percent to 2,296.65 rupees in Mumbai,
the worst performer on the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index. (MXAP)  The firm
said it expects revenue to increase between 6 percent and 10
percent in the year that started April 1, versus the 12.7
percent estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  gained 3.2 percent to A$36.40 after
Australia’s second-largest oil producer scrapped a plan to build
a $46 billion liquefied-natural-gas project and said it may
accelerate the return of capital to shareholders. Chiyoda Corp.,
a Japanese industrial plant operator which is bidding on the
project, tumbled 11 percent to 974 yen.  Power Companies  Kyushu Electric soared 22 percent to 1,385 yen and Hokkaido
Electric Co surged 17 percent to 1,427 yen. The firms will be
among the first beneficiaries as pressurized water reactors are
expected to resume operation “rather quickly,” SMBC analyst
Hidetoshi Shioda wrote in a report.  Takata Corp. dropped 1.8 percent to 1,786 yen, extending
yesterday’s slump, after Japan’s biggest automakers recalled
cars because of defective airbags made by the company.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.2
percent. The gauge rose 0.4 percent to a record yesterday as
retailers climbed amid rising March sales at U.S. retailers, and
as jobless claims dropped more than estimated. The gauge has
more than doubled from its 12-year low in March 2009, helped by
the  Federal Reserve ’s unprecedented bond purchases and three
straight years of profit growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  