-- Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Set for Weekly Advance Amid China Optimism
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-04-12T06:53:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/aussie-n-z-dollars-set-for-weekly-advance-amid-china-optimism.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars were set for a weekly gain as the bigger nation’s
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said he’s optimistic about China’s outlook.  The so-called Aussie was near a three-month high before
Chinese data next week forecast to show the world’s second-
largest economy grew last quarter at the fastest pace in a year.
The New Zealand dollar’s value relative to its trading peers was
close to an all-time high amid speculation the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s
monetary easing will encourage domestic money managers to
increase their investments overseas.  “The Australian and New Zealand dollars are likely to
remain resilient,” said Kengo Suzuki, a currency strategist at
Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo, a unit of Japan’s third-biggest
financial group by market value. “The rising optimism toward
 China’s economy  is underpinning both currencies.”  Australia’s dollar added 0.1 percent to $1.0550 at 4:39
p.m. in Sydney after reaching $1.0582 yesterday, the strongest
since Jan. 11. It has gained 1.6 percent this week, set for the
biggest five-day advance since the period ended March 15.  The New Zealand dollar, known as the kiwi, fell 0.1 percent
to 86.22 U.S. cents. It has risen 2.3 percent since April 5,
poised for the biggest weekly advance since the period ended
June 15.  The kiwi’s trade-weighted currency  index  climbed to a
record 79.67 yesterday, according to data from the  Reserve Bank 
of New Zealand going back to 1985. It’s at 79.17 today.  China’s Economy  China’s  gross domestic product  probably expanded 8 percent
in the three months ended March 31 from a year earlier, the
fastest growth since the first quarter last year, according to
the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
The figures are due for release on April 15.  Swan said in Sydney today that a team of Australian and
Chinese academics will undertake a research project on the
Chinese currency’s internationalization. Direct trading between
the Australian dollar and  yuan  started on April 10. China is
Australia’s biggest export market.  Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund in Newport Beach, California, recommends the
South Pacific nation’s currency.  “The winners are ultimately countries with good growth and
good balance sheets, including several  emerging markets  in Asia
and Latin America,”  Scott Mather , the head of global  portfolio
management  at Pimco, wrote in a report on its website. “This
trend also favors slower growing but sound balance sheet
countries such as Australia, Canada and Scandinavian countries.
We suggest investors consider diversifying into such
currencies.”  Bond Yields  Australia’s 10-year  government bonds   yielded  3.3 percent
today, with the yield premium over similar-maturity Japanese
debt at 2.69 percentage points. The BOJ on April 4 doubled its
monthly purchases of domestic bonds to step up its fight against
deflation, lowering the nation’s yields.  “The BOJ is effectively telling domestic money managers
not to invest in government bonds,” said Mizuho’s Suzuki.
“We’re more likely to see these managers increase overseas
investments,” including in Australia and New Zealand.  The  Reserve Bank of New Zealand  said today that non-
residents held 68.3 percent of government bonds as of March 31,
up from 60.9 percent a year earlier. The benchmark 10-year bond
yield in the South Pacific nation fell one basis point to 3.35
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  