-- Australia Falls Further Into Deficit on High A$, Wong Says
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-04-12T06:57:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/australia-falls-further-into-deficit-on-high-a-wong-says.html
Australia ’s national budget fell
further into deficit in February due in part to the effects of
the high local dollar, taking the total shortfall to A$23.6
billion ($24.9 billion) for the first eight months of the
financial year, according to Treasury figures.  The gap in the financial year to Feb. 28 was A$5.7 billion
wider than was projected in the government’s Mid-Year Economic
and Fiscal Outlook, primarily due to lower tax revenue and
higher personal benefit payments, the  statement  said.  “These revenue write-downs will inevitably have a big
impact in 2012-13, but they will also have an impact across the
entire forward estimates,” Finance Minister  Penny Wong ’s office
said in an e-mailed statement today. Revenues fell due to “the
substantial hit to company profits as a result of the unusual
divergence between the sustained high dollar and the terms of
trade, continued global uncertainty and subdued price
pressures.”  Labor Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s bid to overcome the
opposition Liberal-National coalition’s lead in opinion polls is
being damaged by weaker growth, lower prices for Australia’s
resources, and a strong local currency that’s curbing tax
receipts. Gillard, the nation’s first female leader, was forced
in December to abandon a pledge to return the budget to a
surplus this year.  In its October  mid-year review , the government forecast a
budget surplus of A$1.08 billion in the 12 months ending June
30. It recorded a A$44 billion deficit last fiscal year. It had
forecast a deficit of A$17.9 billion for the fiscal year’s first
eight months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  