-- Austria Says U.K. Harbors Money-Laundering Havens
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-04-12T11:58:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/austria-s-fekter-says-u-k-harbors-money-laundering-paradises-.html
The U.K. is helping to protect
“ money-laundering  paradises” such as the  Cayman Islands  by
failing to properly exercise its legal authority, Austrian
Finance Minister Maria Fekter said.  Cyprus has been forced to accept transparency rules,
including a ban on anonymous trusts, that should apply equally
in all European Union countries, Fekter told reporters in Dublin
today, urging EU Tax Commissioner Algirdas Semeta to act.  “The U.K. especially has a plethora of money-laundering
paradises and  tax havens  in its immediate area of legal
responsibility -- the  Channel Islands (CHISPRO) , Gibraltar, Cayman
Islands, Virgin Islands,” Fekter said before a meeting of euro-
region finance ministers. “These are all hot spots for tax
avoidance and money laundering.”  Austria has resisted EU moves toward greater transparency
such as an automatic exchange of information between tax
authorities. While the country is ready to discuss data sharing,
“these negotiations can’t be a one-way street,” Fekter said
yesterday.  The Treasury in London said it will put  tax evasion  at the
top of the agenda during Britain’s presidency of the Group of
Eight nations this year. A spokesman for the Treasury said it
has already set up an information exchange with France, Germany,
Italy and Spain and that this week it announced measures to
crack down on tax evasion in the Isle of Man, Guernsey and
Jersey.  “Decisive advances are being put in place in terms of
exchange of information,” French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  told reporters in Dublin today. “We’re engaged in a
process and it won’t stop. In the battle against tax havens, in
the exchange of information.”  Fekter said today that it’s not decided yet “and also not
obviously necessary” to participate in an automatic information
exchange because Austria can also exchange data based on
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development standards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  