-- Bank Leumi, Mizrahi Accounts Used for Back-to-Back Loans
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-04-13T16:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/bank-leumi-mizrahi-said-to-aid-u-s-client-in-tax-crime.html
A Los Angeles businesswoman charged
with conspiring to defraud the Internal Revenue Service used
accounts at two Israeli banks,  Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. (LUMI)  and
 Mizrahi Tefahot Bank Ltd. (MZTF) , to hide assets, her attorney said.  Guity Kashfi will plead guilty in federal court in
California, where prosecutors filed her plea agreement, the
Justice Department said yesterday in a statement. Kashfi went to
the Los Angeles branches of both banks to obtain so-called back-
to-back loans secured by accounts she set up offshore and didn’t
declare to the IRS, according to the Justice Department.  Kashfi first set up an undeclared account at Mizrahi and
then opened one at Leumi, said her attorney, Ed Robbins. The
court documents refer to Mizrahi as Bank A and Leumi as Bank B.
The highest balance in Kashfi’s undeclared accounts was
$2.5 million, the Justice Department said.  “These back-to-back loans were part of the bank’s
service,” Robbins said. “She’s cooperating with the government
in what’s obviously an investigation of the banks and its
principals. She’s been cooperating for quite a while.”  Orit Reuveni, a spokesman for Leumi, declined to comment.
Benny Shoukron, a spokesman for Misrahi, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  March Plea  On March 29, Zvi Sperling of Beverly Hills,  California ,
pleaded guilty to conspiracy for using back-to-back loans
obtained in Los Angeles that were secured by undeclared accounts
at Israeli banks. The banks were Leumi and Mizrahi, two people
familiar with the matter said.  Dozens of U.S. citizens who used offshore accounts to avoid
taxes have helped the federal government in a criminal
investigation of those banks, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the matter wasn’t public.  The probe, which the people said involves a federal grand
jury, comes amid a U.S. crackdown on offshore tax evasion that
has widened since  UBS AG (UBSN) , the largest Swiss bank, avoided
prosecution in February 2009. Zurich-based UBS paid $780 million,
admitted it helped clients evade taxes, and later turned over
data on thousands of accounts.  Kashfi, who was born in  Iran , came to the U.S. in 1980 and
became a U.S. citizen about 15 years ago, according to a
statement of facts filed in her case. She started a clothing
business called Countess of California.  Needed Collateral  By about 1982, her business had a $2.5 million line of
credit with Mizrahi secured by her inventory. Her banker said
she needed more collateral and asked if she had any Persian
money to secure the loan. She said she had offshore funds that
she wanted to keep overseas, according to the statement of facts.  The banker recommended that she open an account in Israel
and transfer her funds to use as collateral for a back-to-back
loan. He said “everyone in their community” of Persian Jews in
Los Angeles was “using back-to-back loans to access their
offshore funds,” according to the statement of facts.  While she initially opened the account in her name, she put
it in a different name in 2001 “to prevent the U.S. government
from finding the account,” according to the statement. He said
the interest paid in  Israel  would be tax free “because it would
not be reported to the IRS so no one would know about her
Israeli account.”  Banker Arrested  In 2008, Kashfi was told that one of Mizrahi’s bankers had
been arrested and the bank would use money in her Israeli
accounts to pay off her back-to-back loans, according to Robbins
and the statement. She then transferred the money to a Leumi
account in Luxembourg “because she did not want to bring her
money back” to the U.S., according to Robbins and the statement.  Kashfi grew concerned in 2009 and went to Luxembourg to
close her account. She went to dinner with two bankers “who
told her she would have issues if she closed her account and
sent the funds” to the U.S., according to the statement.  “One of the bankers told Kashfi that her money was safe in
 Luxembourg ” because “no one could get information relating to
bank accounts” there, according to the statement.  The bankers “gave Kashfi a German cell phone to use with
both bankers’ numbers preprogrammed in the phone, and told her
to use the phone” to call them, according to the statement.
“If the bankers needed to talk to Kashfi, they would call her
on her personal phone and tell her to call them back on the
German cell phone.”  After she closed her account in Los Angeles in 2011, “the
bankers in Luxembourg told Kashfi to return the German cell
phone, which she did,” according to the statement.  She failed to report interest income of $211,306 on the
accounts from 2005 to 2011, according to court papers.  The case is U.S. v. Kashfi, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  