-- Bank Risk Models to Face Further Basel Probe on Capital Concerns
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-04-12T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/bank-risk-models-to-face-further-basel-probe-on-capital-concerns.html
Banks (BEBANKS)  face further scrutiny from
global regulators into their risk models amid concerns lenders
are underestimating the amount of capital they need to cope with
losses.  Initial studies of how lenders measure risk on assets they
intend to trade as well as those they intend to hold to maturity
found “substantial” differences in the amount of capital
different banks hold against identical securities, the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision   said  in a report to finance
ministers from the Group of 20 nations and central bank chiefs.  Banks’ modeling choices are a “key source of variation,”
the group said. “Further analysis is therefore under way, and
areas where Basel committee standards might be modified to
reduce excessive variation are becoming apparent.” The
committee is considering tightening its rules to narrow banks’
freedom to design models and said it’s also weighing the need
for tougher scrutiny by supervisors and stronger disclosure
requirements.  U.S. bankers, including  Jamie Dimon , chief executive
officer of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , have said that flexible
implementation of previous rounds of Basel rules in the European
Union has allowed lenders in the bloc to hold less capital
against some assets than their U.S. counterparts.  The Basel committee is reviewing banks’ risk models as part
of its oversight of how well nations are implementing an
overhaul of capital rules agreed on in response to the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The requirements it sets are measured as a percentage of
lenders’ risk-weighted assets. The latest round, known as Basel
III, states that banks should have core reserves equivalent to 7
percent of their RWAs.  The group said that 11 of its 27 member nations have begun
to apply Basel III, while another three have completed work on
the necessary legislation.  The European Parliament is set to vote next week on the
EU’s implementing measures, which will be reviewed by the Basel
committee once the final text is published.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  