-- Barcelona Plays Bayern in Champions League, Real Meets Dortmund
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-04-12T11:40:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/barcelona-to-play-bayern-munich-in-champions-league-correct-.html
Barcelona will meet  Bayern Munich ,
while Real Madrid faces  Borussia Dortmund  in the semifinals of
soccer’s  Champions League  in two matchups between Spanish and
German clubs.  Barcelona and Bayern Munich are both seeking to win
 Europe ’s elite club competition for a fifth time. Barcelona has
captured three titles in the past seven seasons, while Bayern
has lost two of the past three finals.  The matchups were determined by today’s draw in Nyon,
 Switzerland , with the two-match semifinals being played April
23-24 and April 30-May 1. The final will be played May 25 at
Wembley Stadium in  London .  Barcelona is in the Champions League semifinals for a
record sixth consecutive season. Two of the club’s four European
Cup titles have been won at Wembley Stadium, including a 3-1
victory over  Manchester United  two years ago.  “We’re very happy to be here and the have the chance to
return to a stadium that is magic for us,” Barcelona sports
director Andoni Zubizarreta said at the televised draw.  Record nine-time winner Real Madrid and Dortmund have
already met this season in the group stage. Dortmund won 2-1 at
home and drew 1-1 in Madrid en route to finishing atop Group D.  “We’ve played them twice this season and we didn’t manage
to beat them, but we hope that changes of course,” Real Madrid
director Emilio Butragueno said.  Real Madrid last lifted the European Cup 11 years ago. It’s
in the semifinals for the third straight year after being
eliminated in the round of 16 the previous six seasons.  Dortmund reached the last four by scoring twice in stoppage
time to beat Malaga 3-2 in their second quarterfinal match three
days ago after an opening 0-0 draw. It won its only Champions
League title in 1997 and made its last semifinal appearance the
following season.  The semifinal draw for the second-tier Europa League was
also held with Fenerbahce playing Benfica and Basel taking on
Chelsea.  Chelsea won the Champions League last season. The Blues
dropped into the Europa League this season after becoming the
first titleholder to exit in the Champions League group stage.  Fenerbahce and Basel are in the Europa League semifinals
for the first time, while Benfica reached the last four in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story: Bob Bensch in London at
   bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher
Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 