-- Barroso Says U.S., EU Trade Deal Won’t Eliminate Regulation
-- B y   J i m   S i l v e r
-- 2013-04-12T22:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/barroso-says-u-s-eu-trade-talks-won-t-imperil-essential-rules.html
Trade talks between the European
Union and the U.S. won’t undermine essential protections for
health and the environment, European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said.  The negotiations, which Barroso said will start before this
summer, will target “unnecessary costs” created by differing
regulations, as well as conventional trade barriers such as
tariffs and quotas.  “We, on both sides, will not compromise on our high levels
of health and safety standards, on consumer and environmental
protection,” Barroso said in the text of a speech he gave today
at Bloomberg headquarters in New York.  In February, President  Barack Obama  promised to pursue a
trade agreement with the EU, and EU Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht said the European bloc aims to complete the talks within
two years.  Barroso, speaking later today in a Bloomberg TV interview
with Sara Eisen, said faster progress is needed to create a
banking union for the countries using the euro. The case of
Cyprus, which was “over-dependent” on banking and is receiving
a 10 billion-euro ($13 billion) rescue, is “unique and
exceptional.”  Low Tariffs  Though transatlantic tariffs “are already fairly low,”
5.2 percent on average for the EU and 3.5 percent for the U.S.,
“even the slightest reduction has considerable impact,”
Barroso said earlier in the speech.  The two sides will also seek a “living agreement” that
prevents the creation of future regulatory barriers and puts in
place a mechanism for further economic integration, the
commission president said. The commission is the EU’s Brussels-
based executive branch.  “If we manage to come to a comprehensive agreement, the
overall gains could add up to a 0.5 percent increase in GDP for
 Europe  and 0.4 percent for the U.S. by 2027,” Barroso said.  Trade and investment between the U.S. and the EU was valued
at $4.5 trillion in 2011, the U.S. says. Still, the two sides
have been at odds over issues including  farm subsidies , health
protections and regulatory standards.  Barroso said the bilateral nature of the EU-U.S. talks
won’t undermine multilateral trade talks through the  World Trade
Organization .  Expressly Committed  “We are expressly committed to using these negotiations to
go beyond bilateral issues,” working together to strengthen
intellectual property rights and jointly taking on other issues
at the multilateral level, Barroso said.  Europe’s “economic fundamentals remain strong,” Barroso
said.  The  European debt crisis  has forced the region to revise
policies and public finances and strengthen the economic and
monetary union “in a way that we were unable -- in some cases
unwilling -- to do before,” Barroso said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Silver in  New York  at 
 jsilver@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  