-- Two Duck Species Spawn Deadly Flu, Study Finds
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2013-04-13T04:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/beijing-brambling-zhejiang-duck-spawn-deadly-flu-study-finds.html
A brambling from Beijing, a wild
bird from Korea and a duck from  China ’s Zhejiang province
probably helped spawn the new flu variant that’s killed 11
people, a study in the  New England Journal of Medicine  found.  The birds were infected with avian flu strains that most
resemble the H7N9 virus circulating in eastern China, according
to an April 11 study by researchers at the Chinese Center for
Disease Control and Prevention in Beijing and Fudan University
in Shanghai.  At least 44 people have been sickened with  H7N9 flu , which
the authors said causes brain damage, muscles to break down and
vital organs to fail in its most extreme form. Different
mutations in samples taken from patients suggest the virus
entered human populations at least twice, the study found.  “We are concerned by the sudden emergence of these
infections and the potential threat to the human population,”
Rongbao Gao and colleagues wrote. “An understanding of the
source and mode of transmission of these infections, further
surveillance, and appropriate counter measures are urgently
required.”  The new strain, which hasn’t been detected in humans or
 animals  before, raises “many urgent questions and global public
health concerns,” Timothy Uyeki and Nancy Cox, flu scientists
at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta,
said in an accompanying  editorial  in the journal.  Netherlands Variant  There’s no evidence that the virus is spreading among
people, though a previous avian flu outbreak caused by a related
variant in the Netherlands showed limited human-to-human
transmission is possible, the Chinese researchers said.  Beijing said today that a seven-year-old girl from the city
whose parents sell live poultry was infected with H7N9, the
first case to be reported in northern China.  Shanghai ’s government reported two more cases and another
death on its official microblog yesterday, taking the death toll
in China’s financial hub to seven and the number of infections
to 20. Other cases have been reported in the eastern provinces
of Anhui, Zhejiang and Jiangsu, for a total of 43 infections and
11 fatalities.  In 2009, a novel swine flu virus, known as H1N1, touched
off the first influenza pandemic in 41 years. The H5N1 bird flu
strain, which killed at  least 371 people  over the past decade,
hasn’t acquired the ability to spread easily among people.  “The 2009 H1N1 pandemic taught us many lessons, including
that a pandemic virus can emerge from an animal reservoir in an
unexpected location and be spread rapidly through  air travel ,”
Uyeki and Cox wrote.  Severely Ill  H7N9 infections are cause for concern because most patients
observed so far have been severely ill, the  World Health
Organization  said on its website, adding that both animal-to-
human and human-to-human routes of transmission are being
“actively investigated.”  It’s possible the severe cases that have been reported over
the past five weeks represent a fraction of the total number of
infections that have occurred, with some going undetected
because they had mild or no symptoms, Uyeki and Cox said.  Detailed analysis of the genetic makeup of the H7N9 virus
showed its six internal genes came from an avian H9N2 strain,
resembling one collected from a brambling, a type of finch,
isolated in Beijing last year, the Chinese researchers said.  Host Cells  The gene coding for a surface protein called hemagglutinin,
which allows the virus to grip onto host cells, resembles an
H7N3 virus collected from a duck in Zhejiang in 2011. The gene
coding for neuraminidase, a protein on the surface of the virus
that enables it to escape from infected cells, resembles an H7N9
virus isolated from a wild bird in  Korea  in 2011, they said.  The gene sequences indicate these viruses may be better
adapted than other strains of bird flu to infecting mammals,
Uyeki and Cox said. For example, a mutation in the hemagglutinin
of H7N9 gene has been shown to aid its infiltration of the upper
respiratory tract of mammals, and to increase transmissibility.  The coming weeks will reveal whether the disease pattern
reflects a widespread outbreak in birds, whether an H7N9
pandemic is beginning, or something in between, Uyeki and Cox
said.  “The key is intensified surveillance for H7N9 virus in
humans and animals to help answer important questions,” they
said. “We cannot rest our guard.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  