-- Bernanke Backs ‘Multiprong’ Approach to Aiding Low-Income Areas
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-04-12T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/bernanke-backs-multiprong-approach-to-aiding-low-income-areas.html
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said aiding low-income neighborhoods requires a
“multipronged” approach focusing on education, jobs and health
care as well as housing.  “Resilient communities require more than decent housing,”
Bernanke said today in Washington in a speech to a community
development research conference sponsored by  the Fed . “They
require an array of amenities that support the social fabric of
the community and build the capabilities of community
residents.”  The Fed chairman noted that “low-income communities were
particularly hard hit by the Great Recession.” While employment
and housing show signs of improving, “conditions in lower-
income neighborhoods remain difficult.”  The financial crisis and the worst recession since the
Great Depression pushed down earnings and wealth among low
income households, according to research by the Minneapolis Fed.
Earnings among the bottom 20 percent of U.S. wage and salaried
workers fell by about 30 percent during the downturn compared
with the median income, as workers lost their jobs or left the
labor market, the study said.  “In terms of earnings, the bottom 20 percent of the U.S.
population has never done so poorly, relative to the median,
during the whole postwar period,” researchers Fabrizio Perri
and Joseph Steinberg said in  the February 2012 paper.  The group
also faced “rapidly declining wealth,” the authors said.  Friends, Neighbors  Bernanke, while not mentioning monetary policy or the
economic outlook, cited examples where successful community
redevelopment required participation by store owners, community
centers, friends and neighbors. He is not expected to take
questions from the audience.  The 59-year-old Fed chairman is leading the Federal Open
Market Committee’s efforts to pump monetary stimulus into the
economy to help reduce 7.6 percent unemployment. The Fed
announced a third round of quantitative easing in September and
boosted it in December to $85 billion of monthly bond purchases.  U.S. central bankers estimate that the U.S. economy would
fully use labor resources when the unemployment rate ranges
between 5.2 percent and 6 percent.  U.S. payrolls grew by 88,000 last month, the smallest
increase since June, the Labor Department said on April 5.
Average hourly earnings were unchanged in March from the prior
month, the weakest showing since October.  Recent reports have added to concern that across-the-board
government budget cuts, known as sequestration, will impede
progress made in the job market. Reductions in planned spending,
which began March 1, trim 5 percent from domestic agencies and 8
percent for the Defense Department this fiscal year.  Fed Governor Sarah Bloom Raskin plans to speak on
inequality and the business cycle in New York on April 18.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanna Smialek in Washington 
 jsmialek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  