-- Billionaire Slim Preparing TV Blitz After Mexico Crackdown
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-04-12T20:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/billionaire-slim-preparing-blitz-into-tv-after-mexico-crackdown.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim  is
preparing an aggressive push into  Mexico ’s television market to
take advantage of new telecommunications legislation, even as
the changes threaten his dominance in the phone business.  While Slim’s wireless carrier,  America Movil  SAB, is one of
the chief targets of a bill to create more competition in
Mexico, proposals to give consumers more options in cable and
satellite TV will benefit the company, Chief Financial Officer
Carlos Garcia-Moreno said last month. The bill is under Senate
review after passing the lower house of Congress in March.  The law offers Slim his best chance in years to get a
license to offer pay-TV services over satellite and cable, said
Pablo Vallejo, an analyst at Corporativo GBM SAB. Slim, the
world’s richest person, is amassing media assets, including
Mexican soccer teams and the rights to air the Olympics, to lure
customers with exclusive programming.  “They’re going to move really quickly,” said Vallejo, who
is based in Mexico City. “They’ll probably start off with
really intensive promotions to gain market share.”  America Movil (AMXL)  can move so rapidly because it has a path to
enter the pay-TV business all lined up, the company’s filings
show. It has an option to acquire a controlling stake in Dish
Mexico, the nation’s second-largest satellite-TV company, as
soon as America Movil gets its TV license. Slim could also
easily begin providing television over the fiber-optic Internet
connections he has in some neighborhoods.  Home Country  Before the proposed changes, America Movil’s dominance in
phone service prevented it from expanding into the TV business.  “This is the only country in Latin America where the
incumbent can’t offer video service,” Garcia-Moreno said at the
Bloomberg Mexico Economic Summit in March. “It was paradoxical
that a company like America Movil with operations in 29
countries had opportunities to offer service in practically all
of them except its home country.”  America Movil fell 1.1 percent to 12.72 pesos at the close
in Mexico City. A press official for the Mexico City-based
company declined to comment on its specific TV plans.  Slim’s move into pay TV could squeeze profit margins for
 Grupo Televisa SAB (TLEVICPO) , Mexico’s biggest video-service provider,
which is increasingly relying on its satellite and cable
businesses for growth.  In a filing yesterday,  Televisa (TV)  said the bill before
Congress presents risks and opportunities for the company.  While the legislation may cut into revenue and create new
competitors for satellite and cable TV, it will also “level the
playing field for all participants in the telecommunications
market and foster competition, representing an opportunity for
the growth of our telecommunications business,” Televisa said.  Potential Breakup  The telecommunications law would do plenty to threaten
Slim’s dominance in the phone business. Under the proposal,
regulators could break up companies with market share of more
than 50 percent. America Movil has 70 percent of Mexico’s
mobile-phone subscribers and about 80 percent of its landlines.  The bill also lifts restrictions on foreign investment in
landline phone networks to encourage more challengers to Slim.
And it would require America Movil to share parts of its
infrastructure and to adhere to rules governing the fees it can
charge competitors to connect calls.  Implementing all those changes -- and ensuring that America
Movil is following the law -- will take months after the bill is
passed, so the company may have to wait until early 2014 or
longer to get its TV license, said Alejandro Gallostra, an
analyst at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  in Mexico City.  Seeking License  America Movil has been unable to obtain the video permit
under current law because the government has ruled it hasn’t
complied with requirements for its connections to rival
networks. Under the new bill, the company will have little
choice than to follow the rules or face harsh penalties,
Gallostra said. The good news is that would allow America Movil
to finally qualify for a TV license.  “It doesn’t behoove them to be without TV for a long
time,” Gallostra said.  The pay-TV market offers America Movil a new avenue for
growth, since more than half of Mexican households still don’t
have cable or satellite service. More importantly, Slim’s
company needs TV to keep Televisa from luring away its customers
with packages of video, voice and Internet service.  America Movil lost 225,000 landline phone customers in the
fourth quarter, more than the 164,000 Internet subscriptions it
gained.  Dish Deal  Without a TV license of his own, Slim has had to improvise.
America Movil turned to Dish Mexico in 2008 as a partner,
letting the carrier sell satellite service along with its own
phone and Internet plans. It charges customers for all three on
a single bill.  Dish Mexico, a joint venture of MVS Comunicaciones SA and
billionaire  Charlie Ergen ’s  EchoStar Corp. (SATS) , had about 2.5
million subscribers at the end of 2012, according to Amy Yong,
an analyst at Macquarie Securities in  New York . That figure
could more than quintuple by 2022, making the satellite company
an attractive target for an America Movil takeover, she said.  “That’s pretty compelling,” Yong said in an interview.
“Dish Mexico already is a pretty good consumer brand.”  Dish Mexico is probably worth about $1 billion, based on
the average of three analysts interviewed by Bloomberg. America
Movil had 45.5 billion pesos ($3.8 billion) in cash at the end
of 2012, so it could more than cover the acquisition of at least
50 percent of the satellite company.  Fiber-Optic Lines  America Movil hasn’t disclosed the full extent of its
agreement with Dish Mexico, and it’s possible that it agreed to
an acquisition price years ago, or already has debt convertible
to a stake in the company, Gallostra said. America Movil’s press
official declined to comment on the agreement. A Dish Mexico
spokesman also declined to comment.  America Movil already serves wealthier neighborhoods in
places like Mexico City with speedy fiber-optic lines, so it
could offer television to those consumers through those
connections, said GBM’s Vallejo. Dish, meanwhile, can provide
attractive deals to the broad swath of poorer Mexicans who don’t
yet have pay-TV subscriptions, he said. Dish charges 119 pesos
(less than $10) a month for its cheapest subscription.  “They’re going to try to reach all of the customers on the
pyramid,” Vallejo said.  America Movil also has exclusive content to offer. Last
month it acquired the rights to distribute the 2014 Winter
Olympics and the 2016  Summer Olympics  in all of  Latin America 
except  Brazil . The company also bought 30 percent stakes in two
Mexican pro soccer teams last year. And in 2011, it  purchased 
DLA Inc., a distributor of movies and TV programs online and on
cable systems, for $50 million.  Free Programming  Slim also could benefit from a provision in the Mexico
telecommunications bill that requires broadcasters to offer
their signals to cable and satellite providers for free. That
would allow America Movil to include some of Mexico’s most
popular programming, including prime-time soap operas and soccer
matches, without having to pay for the rights.  Still, that situation may change. The lower house of
Congress added language in the bill that would prevent a company
determined to be dominant from benefiting from the free
broadcast signals, even through a third party like Dish. That
measure, if upheld by the Senate, might close off Slim’s access
unless his market share shrinks in the phone business.  As Slim weighs his options under the new law, he’ll need to
strike a balance between retaining his most profitable customers
while getting access into the TV market to enhance America
Movil’s growth, Macquarie’s Yong said.  “It’s retention and it’s also market-share gains,” she
said. “Just like in the U.S., for every incremental service
you’re able to provide, you will return that much more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in New York at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  