-- Biotech Industry at Stake in Human Gene Patent Decision
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-04-12T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/biotech-industry-at-stake-in-human-gene-patent-decision.html
For 30 years, biotechnology
innovators have secured thousands of U.S. patents on genes,
defining the legal rights to medical and agricultural products
worth hundreds of billions of dollars.  Now the U.S. Supreme Court is considering whether that was
all a big mistake. The court next week will debate whether human
genes can be patented, hearing arguments from doctors, patients
and scientists who say patents are stifling clinical testing and
research. The group is challenging  Myriad Genetics Inc. (MYGN) ’s
patents on genes linked to breast and ovarian cancer.  A decision against gene patenting would ripple across a
host of industries -- including biotechnology, agriculture,
industrial microbiology and pharmaceuticals. The case has
implications for the growing field of personalized medicine and
efforts to map the human brain and discover new uses for
embryonic  stem cells .  It potentially could bar patents on discoveries outside the
DNA context.  “The intellectual framework that comes out of the decision
could have an impact on other patents,” said Robert Cook-
Deegan, a public-policy professor at  Duke University  and its
Institute for Genome Sciences and Policy. Beyond medicine,
“this could affect agricultural biotechnology, environmental
biotechnology, green-tech, the use of organisms to produce
alternative fuels and other applications.”  Valuable Treatments  The case, which the court will decide by June, is splitting
the medical community. Trade groups for the biotechnology,
agriculture and drug industries are siding with Myriad. They say
gene patents have led to valuable treatments, including  Amgen
Inc. (AMGN) ’s Epogen anemia drug and synthetic insulin developed by
Genentech Inc., now part  of Roche Holding AG .  Doctor groups such as the  American Medical Association  are
backing the challengers to the patents. They have partial
support from the Obama administration, which is urging the court
to uphold parts of Myriad’s patents and void other aspects.  The administration’s  stance  marks a rejection of the
longstanding policy of the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office ,
which has been awarding human gene patents since 1982.  The dispute comes to the court in an emotionally charged
package, with patient advocates accusing Myriad of standing in
the way of breast cancer diagnosis and treatment. The company at
one point demanded that the  University of Pennsylvania  stop
clinical testing of cancer patients. Breast cancer patient
advocates are planning a demonstration outside the court.  Critics say Myriad’s patents effectively give the company
ownership rights over a part of the human body.  ‘Strong Aversion’  “There is a strong aversion to patents that cover any
aspect of the human body,” said Andrew Torrance, who teaches
patent and biodiversity law at the University of  Kansas  and is a
visiting scholar at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology .
“It’s a gut-level principle. We don’t like the thought of
humans as property, and we think of patents as property.”  More broadly, the case has rekindled a debate over the
longstanding concept that patents can’t cover “laws of
nature.” The  Supreme Court  pointed to that legal principle in
1854 when it invalidated part of Samuel Morse’s telegraph patent
because it sought to cover the use of electric current to
transmit characters or letters.  “Einstein could not patent his celebrated law that E=mc2;
nor could Newton have patented the law of gravity,” the high
court wrote in a 1980 case. “Such discoveries are
manifestations of nature, free to all men and reserved
exclusively to none.”  Cancer Tests  The Myriad case tests the meaning of that principle against
the backdrop of cutting-edge medical and scientific research. In
1994, the Salt Lake City-based company won a race among five
research groups to pinpoint the genetic sequences associated
with DNA mutations that indicate hereditary risk for breast and
ovarian cancer. Myriad then developed tests for the mutations.  The group opposing Myriad says the company has used the
patents to block other laboratories from testing the genes for
mutations, in some cases depriving women of important
information. The opponents also say the patents are so broad
that they deter use of the genes for research.  Gene patenting “impedes your relationship to your
physician,” said  Daniel Ravicher , president of the New York-
based Public Patent Foundation, which along with the  American
Civil Liberties Union  represents the challengers. “It gives
exclusive monopolistic control over a portion of your body to a
corporation whose legally required interest is to maximize
profits for its shareholders.”  $500 Million  Myriad says it deserves to be rewarded for its ingenuity.
Mark Capone, president of the company’s Myriad Genetics
Laboratories subsidiary, said in an interview that the company
took a six-foot strand of DNA and identified a sequence that
could fit on the head of a pin. He said the company spent $500
million over 17 years before it broke even on the project.  “There was an incredible amount of research that was
required in order to identify exactly where in the DNA were
these two genes located,” Capone said. A federal appeals court
twice upheld Myriad’s patents.  The tests generated $405 million for Myriad during its most
recent fiscal year, almost 82 percent of the company’s revenue.  Capone said the case won’t have any material impact on the
company because the litigation affects only a fraction of its
 patent rights . Even so, Myriad shares fell 3.8 percent on Nov.
30, the day the high court said it would hear the case.  The case may turn on how the high court understands the
underlying science. The disputed patents cover gene sequences in
the form known as “isolated DNA,” after they have been removed
from the body.  ‘Snipped’ DNA  The challengers say isolated DNA is identical to the coding
that exists naturally in the body and can be easily removed --
“snipped” from a cell, according to the Obama administration.
Myriad says the process is far more complicated, transforming
the DNA molecule’s physical structure and altering its
chemistry.  The impact of the case in the human-gene field probably
will be limited. Gene patenting peaked in the 1990s, meaning
many patents have expired or are nearing the end of their 20-
year life, and most of the human genome is now in the public
domain. Companies now tend to focus on modifying genes or
creating new ones in a laboratory.  “If the Supreme Court stays narrowly focused on human
genes, it will be relatively insignificant or at least not as
significant as people fear,” said Kevin Noonan, a patent lawyer
with McDonnell Boehnen Hulbert & Berghoff in  Chicago .  Affected Industries  Other fields would potentially feel a much greater impact.
A ruling against Myriad might alter the work of animal health-
care companies, such as  Sanofi (SNY) ’s Merial unit, that search for
genetic sequences to find vaccines for common diseases affecting
livestock and pets.  The case might also affect agricultural companies,
including  Monsanto Co. (MON) , that insert genes into seeds so they can
repel insects and withstand weed-killer. Industrial
biotechnology companies might lose the ability to patent
microorganism DNA that can be altered to improve biofuel
manufacturing.  “If they rule that just because you isolate it from
nature, that’s not good enough, where is going to be the
incentive for someone to isolate something from a natural source
and make it beneficial?” Noonan said. “That’s the danger.
That’s why people are upset about this case.”  The case is Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad
Genetics, 12-398.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 