-- BNY Mellon Drops $400 Million Make-Whole Bid From Chesapeake
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-04-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/bny-mellon-drops-400-million-make-whole-bid-in-chesapeake-case.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. 
dropped its argument that  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  should pay
$400 million in extra interest to bondholders if the gas company
loses its lawsuit to redeem $1.3 billion in bonds early at par.  BNY Mellon, the trustee for the notes due March 2019,
reversed its position on the “make-whole” payment -- which
includes interest through maturity -- and doesn’t want a judge
to rule on it, the second-biggest natural gas producer in the
U.S. said in a filing on April 10 in federal court in  Manhattan .  Bank of New York Mellon will still argue at a trial
scheduled to begin April 23 that Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake
missed a March 15 deadline to call the notes early at 100 cents
on the dollar, according to the filing.  The bank “informed the court that it has acceded to this
conclusion (without conceding that it is correct), and that if
the notice sent by Chesapeake is determined to have been
untimely,  BNY Mellon  does not intend to treat the notice as
triggering a make-whole redemption,” Chesapeake said.  Chesapeake sued BNY Mellon last month after the bank said
the notice was too late to redeem early at par and would instead
automatically trigger a make-whole redemption. While the extra
interest payment is no longer a threat, the trial will still
determine if Chesapeake can execute the call and refinance some
of its debt with lower  interest rates .  Bank of New York Mellon’s lawyer in the case, Steven Bierman, declined to comment on the change in the bank’s
position when reached yesterday by phone. Chesapeake’s
spokesman, Paul Caminiti, also declined to comment.  March Footnote  The bank first notified the court of its decision to drop
the make-whole demand in a footnote in a March 31 letter to U.S.
District Judge Paul Engelmayer, who is overseeing the case. The
letter was about an unrelated dispute over the exchange of
evidence between the parties in preparation for trial.  The difference between an at par call and a make-whole
redemption of the 2019 notes amounts to 30 cents on the dollar
to hedge funds speculating on the outcome of the lawsuit,
Chesapeake said in the April 10 filing.  Engelmayer has sought to focus the lawsuit on the meaning
of the March 15 deadline in the indenture paperwork, and he
earlier criticized Bank of  New York  Mellon and a group of
investors that had intervened in the case for seeking the make-
whole payment. The bank initially said it would push ahead with
that claim regardless of the judge’s comments.  Redemption Notice  Chesapeake contends the March 15 deadline stated in the
indenture was for the notice of early redemption to be sent to
noteholders, while BNY Mellon claims the call would need to be
formally completed by that date.  Chesapeake “obviously did not intend that a notice of
special early redemption could inadvertently trigger a notice of
make-whole redemption simply by being sent too late,” the gas
company said in the April 10 filing. “An untimely notice is
simply considered ineffective, and thus null and void.”  The gas company contends that even though BNY Mellon has
changed its position on the make-whole payment, Engelmayer
should rule on the claim at the trial. The bank wants the matter
dropped from the underlying case.  “Other noteholders may disagree with the trustee’s current
position,” Chesapeake said. “A prompt ruling -- to avoid any
remaining uncertainty in the market concerning the potential
availability of a make-whole redemption -- would significantly
benefit the public interest.”  In its filing, Chesapeake said Bank of New York threatened
to reinstate its earlier position on the claim if the gas
company didn’t accept the dispute was no longer “justiciable”
-- meaning it can’t be ruled upon -- and agree to drop it from
the case.  “This threat crystallizes precisely why Chesapeake -- and
the noteholders -- continue to have a justiciable interest in
resolving this issue for once and for all.  The case is Chesapeake Energy Corp. v. Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Co., 13-cv-01582, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  