-- BOE’s Cheap Cash Smothering Mortgage Bond Market: U.K. Credit
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-04-12T09:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/boe-s-cheap-cash-smothering-mortgage-bond-market-u-k-credit.html
Britain’s residential mortgage-
backed  securities market , the biggest in  Europe , is being choked
off as cheap Bank of England cash makes issuance of the debt
uneconomic.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the nation’s largest mortgage
provider, hasn’t issued the securities since February 2012.
 Santander U.K. Plc (SAN)  last sold notes in August, the same month
banks got access to about 80 billion pounds ($123 billion) of
state-backed money at rates as low as 0.25 percent. Investors
demand a yield of about 1.2 percent to hold senior bonds backed
by U.K. prime mortgages, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. data.  The so-called Funding for Lending Scheme is designed to cut
borrowing costs for households and companies as Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  struggles to avert a third
recession in five years. Analysts say lenders risk becoming
dependent on a program that is due to end in January 2014.  “The longer-term consequences could be detrimental for the
securitization market because the Bank of England’s scheme isn’t
meant to be infinite, and so we need a proper bank funding
market in place when it stops,” said Harpreet Parhar, a London-
based credit strategist at  Credit Agricole SA. (ACA)  “It will be
difficult to grow it again because anemic volumes for a few more
years means fewer raters, originators, structurers and investors
in the future.”  Removing Liquidity  London ’s property market powered a seventh month of
increases in U.K. house prices in March as values reached a
five-year high, according to Acadametrics Ltd. The average cost
of a home in England and  Wales  rose 0.2  percent on the month to
reach 230,078 pounds, Acadametrics and  LSL Property Services Plc (LSL) 
said in a monthly report published in London today. Excluding
the capital, prices fell 0.1 percent on the month.  Sales of asset-backed securities in Britain, including
RMBS, declined 83 percent this year to 2.67 billion euros ($3.5
billion), according to JPMorgan data. A total of 35.8 billion
euros of assets were securitized last year, of which 22.8
billion euros were residential mortgages.  “The FLS and other schemes mean banks keep the assets on
balance sheets and fund through central banks,” said Henry Cooke, the London-based head of European ABS at  Threadneedle
Asset Management Ltd ., which manages about $120 billion of
assets including European securitizations. “The FLS is
definitely removing liquidity from the system.”  Wholesale Funds  Under FLS, banks and mutual lenders can borrow Treasury
bills from the  Bank of England  for a fee starting at 0.25
percent, and then use the bills as collateral to raise wholesale
funds. The three-month London interbank offered rate is about
0.50 percent.  Britain stands on the brink of another recession after
contracting 0.3 percent in the final three months of 2012. Gilts
have returned 1 percent this year compared with a 0.2 percent
gain for Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. The
pound has fallen about 4.4 percent, the worst performer after
the yen among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Investor Demand  There’s about 355 billion pounds of U.K. mortgage-backed
bonds outstanding and the dearth of new issuance, with no deals
since November, is boosting prices. Investors demand 69 basis
points more than  interbank borrowing costs  to buy a five-year
pound-denominated senior bond backed by U.K. prime home loans.
That compares with 160 basis points a year ago, and as high as
425 basis points in January 2009, JPMorgan data show.  In euros, the spread over interbank rates is 63 basis
points, compared with 91 basis points for Dutch mortgage-backed
debt and 345 basis points for Spanish bonds.  Lloyds debt sales declined as the lender “continues to
improve its liquidity position as part of our strengthening
balance sheet,” said  Matt Smith , a London-based spokesman at
the bank. “This is evidenced by the increase in customer
deposits and continuing reduction in our non-core assets.”  The shortage of new deals is prompting investors to turn to
higher yielding assets such as collateralized loan obligations,
that have been moribund since the start of the credit crisis,
and commercial mortgage-backed bonds. CLOs pool high-yield,
high-risk loans and slice them into securities of varying risk
and return.  European CLO  Cairn Capital Ltd., a London-based credit manager, in
February sold the first European CLO since 2011. Pramerica
Investment Management Ltd. priced a 300 million-euro fund this
week.  Leon Black ’s  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  plans to
increase the size of its first European CLO to 325 million euros
from the 306.5 million euros initially offered, according to
three people with knowledge of the matter.  Yields on the top-rated slices of CLOs average about 150
basis points, or 1.50 percentage points, more than the Euro
interbank offered rate, down from 280 in January 2012, according
to JPMorgan. Investors demand 285 basis points to buy senior
bonds backed by commercial mortgages compared with as high as 10
percentage points in August 2009. Investors are accepting a
lower spread even as Moody’s Investors Service says that
underlying collateral will perform “poorly” over the next two
years because of lack of refinancing opportunities and weakness
in the economy.  “The lack of issuance out from the U.K. means stronger
bids for the existing ABS and RMBS paper,” said Dalibor Jarnevic, a Frankfurt-based trader at DZ Bank AG. “That is
forcing investors to go down the credit-quality curve to capture
some yield.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  