-- BofA Ordered to Face Claims Over Insurance Kickbacks
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-04-12T19:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/bofa-ordered-to-face-claims-over-insurance-kickbacks.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
largest U.S. lender by assets, must face claims by homeowners
that it took kickbacks from private insurers, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Berle Schiller in Philadelphia denied
the bank’s request to toss the lawsuit because the statute of
limitations had expired on the claims. Homeowners who sued
should have the opportunity to develop their argument that the
claims should be allowed because the bank intentionally
concealed its behavior, Schiller said in a ruling yesterday.  “Plaintiffs’ allegations that defendants dressed up an
illegal scheme to appear as a legitimate transaction is
sufficient to deny defendants’ motion to dismiss,” Schiller
said.  Three Pennsylvania homeowners sued the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based bank last year claiming it’s pay-to-play
reinsurance scheme cost borrowers $284.7 million between 2004
and the end of 2011. That’s the amount Bank of America allegedly
collected from private mortgage insurers as its share of
insurance premiums for referring borrowers, according to the
complaint.  The homeowners, who obtained mortgage loans from the bank
in 2005 and 2007, also named private insurers Radian Guaranty
Inc., a unit of Philadelphia-based  Radian Group Inc. (RDN) ; Richmond,
Virginia-based  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) ’s Genworth Mortgage
Insurance Corp.; and United Guaranty Residential Insurance Co.,
a subsidiary of New York-based American International Group Inc.
in their complaint. They sued seeking to represent all borrowers
who obtained residential mortgage loans from Bank of America
since Jan. 1, 2004.  ‘Without Merit’  “This is a procedural ruling and not a ruling on the
merits of the case,” Shirley Norton, a Bank of America
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. “We believe the
allegations are without merit and will continue to defend
vigorously against those allegations.”  Schiller also denied the insurers’ requests to dismiss the
case while acknowledging that they raised “legitimate”
arguments about the timeliness of the claims and that homeowners
failed to exercise due diligence in discovering those claims.  Both sides are allowed to conduct limited fact-finding into
the limitations issue “before the parties pour significant time
and resources into the merits of the plaintiffs’ claims,”
Schiller wrote.  Illegal Kickbacks  Liz Urquhart, a spokeswoman for United, and Alfred King, a
spokesman for Genworth, had no immediate comment on Schiller’s
ruling. Emily Riley, a Radian spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau announced April 4
that Radian, Genworth, United and another insurer agreed to pay
more than $15 million in penalties to settle claims they paid
illegal kickbacks to lenders in exchange for business. The
settlement ended a five-year federal investigation, the agency
said.  Lenders collected revenue from mortgage guarantors through
captive reinsurance agreements and allowed them to get funds
from premiums without taking on risks, according to the CFPB.
The practice violates the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act,
the bureau said.  Homebuyers who take out mortgages with less than 20 percent
down payments are typically required to purchase private
mortgage insurance at closing. The premium paid by the borrower
protects the lender in the event of a default.  The case is Riddle v.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , 12-cv-01740,
U.S. District Court Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Philadelphia)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  