-- BOJ Said to Consider Boosting Outlook for Inflation
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-04-12T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/boj-said-to-consider-boosting-outlook-for-inflation.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  is considering
boosting its consumer-price outlook to signal confidence it will
meet a pledge to achieve 2 percent  inflation  in two years,
people familiar with the central bank’s discussions said.  The BOJ may upgrade its view on price gains excluding fresh
food to at least 1.5 percent from 0.9 percent for fiscal 2014 in
its next forecast update on April 26, according to the people,
who asked not to be identified because the talks were private.  Policy makers are seeking to assure the public that new
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda’s unprecedented stimulus will help meet
the price goal, with the yen dropping about 11 percent since the
previous forecast on Jan. 22. Kuroda said yesterday that the
central bank won’t set a time limit for easing and will continue
until it achieves sustainable inflation.  “It will be very challenging to meet this forecast, but
it’s not mission impossible,” said  Masamichi Adachi , senior
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo and a former BOJ
official. “It’s a mind game to some degree, based on raising
inflation expectations.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average pared losses following the
Bloomberg News report on the BOJ forecast to close down 0.5
percent yesterday, after falling as much as 1.1 percent. The yen
traded at 99.24 against the dollar at 8:33 p.m. yesterday in
Tokyo, up 0.5 percent after this week touching the lowest since
April 2009.  ‘Turn Positive’  “The year-on-year rate of change in the CPI has recently
been at around 0 percent or slightly negative, but looking to
the future, it is expected to turn positive and start picking
up,” Kuroda said in a speech yesterday in  Tokyo , his first
since becoming governor last month. The acceleration will mainly
reflect “improvement in the aggregate demand and supply
balance,” he said.  Separately yesterday, Japan’s new top currency official
said the nation will be able to convince trading partners that
the central bank’s monetary stimulus is not intended to weaken
the yen.  “The monetary policy being carried out by the Bank of
Japan is clearly aimed at getting Japan out of deflation,”
Mitsuhiro Furusawa, the vice-finance minister for international
affairs, said in an interview in Tokyo. He said Japan will
“properly explain” its position at a meeting of Group of 20
nations in  Washington  next week.  All Measures  Kuroda told reporters earlier this week that the central
bank has taken all “necessary” and “possible” measures to
achieve the 2 percent inflation goal. The BOJ chief reiterated a
pledge to do what’s needed to meet the target in two years.  The BOJ declined to comment for this article, a central
bank spokesman said.  The BOJ forecasts, updated about every three months,
represent the median estimate of nine board members, excluding
the effects of a consumption-tax increase. The central bank
provides a range of projections with the highest and lowest
figures left out.  An estimate of 1.5 percent would represent inflation over
the course of the 2014 fiscal year that runs from April 2014 to
March 2015, indicating price gains may approach 2 percent toward
the end of the period.  Kuroda and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe are aiming for
sustained gains in prices and wages after more than a decade of
deflation and three recessions in five years. They face an aging
population and the world’s biggest public debt load, more than
double the size of the economy.  Key Measure  Gross domestic product rose an annualized 0.2 percent in
the fourth quarter of last year. Prices excluding fresh food,
officials’ key measure, haven’t gained 2 percent in any year
since 1997, when a sales tax was increased.  Economists are skeptical about the BOJ’s attempt to reach
the price target in two years. Only two out of 40 economists
surveyed by the  Japan  Center for Economic Research said Kuroda
can achieve the goal in the time frame, according to a report
released on April 10.  Abe said this month that the central bank shouldn’t pursue
a 2 percent inflation target “at all costs” and may fail to
achieve it should global conditions change.  Deputy Governor Kikuo Iwata has said the best way to take
responsibility if the central bank fails to meet the target in
two years would be to resign.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  