-- BorgWarner Turbocharged Growth Leads Auto Supplier Surge
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-04-12T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/borgwarner-turbocharged-growth-leads-auto-supplier-surge.html
With U.S. auto sales percolating at
the best pace since 2007, parts suppliers are riding high, too --
and none more so than  BorgWarner Inc. (BWA)   BorgWarner outperformed every auto supplier in  North
America  over the past three years. Shares of the turbocharger
maker more than doubled from 2010 through 2012, which means that
solid, stolid old BorgWarner, founded in the Roaring ’20s, beat
some far more stylish companies. From the beginning of 2010, its
stock returned four times more than  Google Inc. (GOOG)   The question now is whether Auburn Hills, Michigan-based
BorgWarner’s hot hand gives new Chief Executive Officer James Verrier a big head start in doing well or an impossibly hard act
to follow. The exact split of opinion is telling: Among analysts
 surveyed  by Bloomberg, 12 rate it a buy and 12 a hold. There are
no sells.  “He has a significantly tougher job because he’s
inheriting a business that’s operating well and has high
expectations,” Matt Stover, an analyst with Guggenheim
Securities in  Boston , said in an interview.  The surge in BorgWarner’s market value to $8.75 billion as
of yesterday has been part of a rally throughout the U.S.
supplier industry. The  Bloomberg Industries North American Auto
Parts index  more than doubled since the start of 2010 to a 52-
week closing high of 408.21 yesterday. U.S. employment in the
sector, which peaked at 845,900 in June 2000, rebounded to
487,300 in January after bottoming in July 2009 at 386,300,
according to the Original Equipment Supplier Association, a
trade group.  Company History  BorgWarner was founded in 1928 by a group of entrepreneurs
that included the inventor of the first manual transmission,
according to the company’s  website . While it still makes
transmission parts, its primary product is turbochargers and it
competes in a crowded space that also includes giants
 Continental AG (CON) ,  Robert Bosch GmbH  and  Cummins Inc. (CMI)  As recently
as April 2010, it was trading at a 64 percent discount to the
auto parts index.  That’s when the revival of the U.S. car industry began to
take hold. Just as important for BorgWarner, governments around
the world increasingly began mandating more efficient engines
for better gas mileage.  Demand for BorgWarner’s turbochargers soared. The company
has 29 percent of the U.S. market, ahead of Cummins and
 Honeywell International Inc. (HON) , with 27 percent and 23 percent,
according to IBISWorld, a Santa Monica, California-based
researcher.  Turbochargers compress air to maximize the power an engine
produces. Automakers, forced by governments in the U.S., Europe
and Asia to improve  fuel efficiency  and lower emissions, are
turning to smaller, lighter engines. They’re using turbos to
give buyers the power and acceleration they still want.  CAFE Rating  “Smaller displacement and forced induction,”  Kevin Tynan ,
auto analyst for Bloomberg Industries in Skillman, New Jersey,
said in an interview. “This is the way the industry is going.”  The U.S. requires automakers to double their corporate
average fuel economy rating, known as CAFE, to 54.5 miles (88
kilometers) per gallon by 2025.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  said April 2 that about 40 percent of the
F-150 pickups it has sold to individual buyers this year in the
U.S. had six-cylinder engines powered by turbos BorgWarner helps
supply. As recently as 2010, Ford didn’t sell any six-cylinder
F-150s.  Light-vehicle makers bought about 25 million turbos
globally last year, BorgWarner estimates. By 2017, that number
will increase to 41 million, the company projects. Just-
Auto.com, a Bromsgrove, England-based market research firm,
forecasts as many as 44.9 million by 2017.  Turbocharger Stats  Sales of turbochargers for light vehicles alone make up 26
percent of BorgWarner’s $7.18 billion in annual revenue. Its
customers include Ford,  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Daimler AG (DAI) , Hyundai Motor
Co. and  General Motors Co. (GM)   Turbo sales will make up about half of BorgWarner’s net new
business for 2013 through 2015, according to the company. Of
that, 80 percent is outside the U.S., for customers such as
Ford, VW,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Fiat SpA. (F)   China 
represents about a third of BorgWarner’s net new business.  “BorgWarner’s portfolio is uniquely situated around fuel
efficiency and will play a major role in automakers’ ability to
meet more stringent requirements,” Joseph Spak, an analyst with
 RBC Capital Markets , who rates BorgWarner the equivalent of a
buy, wrote in a research note.  The company’s discount to the Auto Parts Index began
narrowing after April 2010, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg. Investors paid as much as a 55 percent premium for
BorgWarner’s forecast earnings when compared with the index in
July 2012, the data show.  Manganello’s Record  Analysts give credit to Tim Manganello, who was named CEO
of BorgWarner on Feb. 5, 2003. He was known for spending to
support the business and keeping tight controls on the rest.
Visitors to the corporate offices, for example, looked up the
CEO’s extension from a vinyl binder on a counter next to the
phone. No secretary, no comfy waiting area. The nearby research
and development center was a bit more plush.  “It’s gorgeous,” Stover said. “It showed they were
putting their money where it mattered. As an investor, you like
that.”  Manganello, 63, retired at the end of last year. The stock
quadrupled under his tenure, while sales more than doubled.  Verrier, 50, then took the helm at BorgWarner. Verrier has
been with the company for 24 years. His prior positions have
included vice president of BorgWarner’s turbo systems and
passenger-car products based in Germany. He was named chief
operating officer in March 2012.  The CEO declined an interview request, said Erika Nielsen,
a company spokeswoman.  Verrier’s Task  Verrier inherits a company that’s not flying as high as it
was just recently. The stock has slipped 7.4 percent in the 12
months ended yesterday. BorgWarner this month has traded at a
discount to the North American Parts Index for the first time
since July 2011, according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg.  Europe is the culprit. Vehicle sales in the region are
headed to the lowest level in 19 years because of the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis. BorgWarner’s European sales began to
slump six years ago and the drop accelerated over the past two.
In 2011, 56 percent of its sales were in Europe; now it’s 51
percent.  While BorgWarner’s competitors also have been hurt by the
European slump, a larger percentage of BorgWarner’s sales are
there. Cummins’ auto-parts unit, for example, gets about 17
percent of its revenue from Europe and the  Middle East .  Because of BorgWarner’s success over the past three years,
Stover, for one, is taking a wait-and-see attitude.  ‘Real Question’  “I’m not saying they can’t continue it, but the conditions
are always more challenging when the expectations are higher,”
Stover said. “The real question is what are the longer term
sources of growth for BorgWarner and how is the company going to
protect its margins.”  Stover says “the market is quietly betting against them.”  David Leiker , an analyst with Robert W. Baird & Co., has a
hold on the stock.  “The reality is the last 18 months have been a bit of a
struggle,” he said in an interview. “BorgWarner is a fantastic
company with great technology. The struggle has been that the
valuation has gotten ahead of the earnings growth,” though he
added, “I think that’s coming to an end.”  Manganello will remain as executive chairman until he steps
down at BorgWarner’s April 24 annual meeting.  “The last five to seven years have been really special for
the company,” Stover said. “It’s sort of unfair in a way for
Verrier. The hardest thing to do is upstage an act like the one
we’ve seen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  