-- Brazil Seeks Higher Power-Auction Rate to Spur Use of Coal, Gas
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-04-12T20:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/brazil-seeks-higher-power-auction-rate-to-spur-use-of-coal-gas.html
Brazil  is seeking to boost prices
at electricity auctions and spur demand for power from coal- and
natural gas-fired plants, after developers agreed to sell wind
energy at low prices that made fossil fuel less competitive.  The government is changing the rules this year in auctions
for contracts to sell electricity so wind farms won’t compete
head-to-head with other sources of power, according to a press
official for the national energy agency Empresa de Pesquisa
Energetica who declined to be named citing the organization’s
policy.  Developers of wind farms have won 55 percent of contracts
in auctions since 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Prices for wind energy fell 41 percent to 88 reais ($44.75) a
megawatt hour in a 2012 auction from 2009. That’s dragging down
rates for many other sources of power and making some proposals
unviable, said Elbia Melo, president of  Associacao Brasileira de
Energia Eolica .  “Today,  wind energy  is the most competitive so if they mix
together all the technologies they won’t be able to contract the
amount of thermoelectric they want because thermoelectric plants
are much more expensive,” Melo said in a telephone interview
today. “It’s very important for Brazil to diversify its energy
matrix.”  Three Auctions  The government will hold three auctions this year, the
energy agency official said. The A-3 event, for power projects
coming online in 2016, will have separate categories so
thermoelectric plants that run on gas, coal or biomass will
compete against each other, while wind developers will bid
against each other and against companies planning small
hydroelectric projects.  The A-5 auction, for plants that will be completed in 2018,
will also include thermoelectric plants and may have wind and
small hydro. Large hydro projects will compete against each
other in the A-5 event. A third auction will be reserved solely
for developers competing for contracts to sell power from wind
farms.  The Ministry of Mines and Energy will issue the new rules
before the first auction, the official said. The dates haven’t
been set. In Brazil’s power auctions, developers bid down the
price at which they’re willing to sell power, and the lowest
offer wins.  Price Ceiling  The decision to reserve electricity contracts for
developers of more expensive  power plants  may require the
government to raise the maximum price they’re allowed to sell
energy to as much as 150 reais a megawatt-hour, Melo said. The
ceiling price for new projects was 112 reais in last year’s
auction.  The government will also change the way wind developers
calculate their projects’ future energy supply, Melo said. The
new methodology will require companies to install more machines
to guarantee production doesn’t fall below certain levels. That
may require companies to sell power at rates as much as 20
percent higher.  “There’s still some insecurity among officials in the
energy sector over the reliability of wind energy,” Melo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  