-- Brookfield Spinoff Plans to Expand Beyond Offices, Malls
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-04-12T17:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/brookfield-spinoff-plans-to-expand-beyond-offices-malls.html
Brookfield Property Partners LP,
the $48 billion business being spun off by its Canadian parent,
plans to pursue purchases beyond office and retail, the firm’s
past areas of focus, as its access to capital improves.  The spinoff, taking effect April 15, is the last of three
main business units to be carved out by Toronto-based  Brookfield
Asset Management Inc. (BAM)  Like the other two, Brookfield Renewable
Energy Partners LP and  Brookfield Infrastructure Partners LP (BIP) ,
Brookfield Property Partners will be a limited partnership based
in  Bermuda , a traditional tax haven.  “For capital efficiency and to simplify our story, we
wanted the three big businesses to operate separately with their
own balance sheets,” Ric Clark, Brookfield Property’s chief
executive officer, said in a telephone interview. “At the
height of the economic crisis in ’09, there were lots of
opportunities but also competition amongst the groups at
Brookfield for a finite amount of balance-sheet capital.”  Brookfield Property is designed to give investors global
exposure to commercial real estate, including investments in
multifamily and industrial as well as retail and office
buildings.  Brookfield Asset Management (BAM/A)  began investing in U.S.
real estate in 1976 with purchases of office buildings and
shopping malls.  “They only locate in top markets and top-quality assets,”
Ross Moore, director of research for CBRE Canada, a unit of  CBRE
Group Inc. (CBG) , the world’s largest commercial-property brokerage,
said of Brookfield. “They’re good investors and good operators.
They are very financially astute.”  Rental Demand  Brookfield has been trying to expand in apartments and
industrial properties, two sectors where it hasn’t had large
investments, as rental-housing demand and global trade grow. One
possible acquisition target is Gazeley Ltd., a London-based
industrial developer owned by Dubai-based Economic Zones World
that’s valued at about 300 million pounds ($459 million),
according to a person briefed on the situation.  Melissa Coley , a spokeswoman for Brookfield Property,
declined to comment on possible interest in Gazeley. Economic
Zones World didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment on a
potential sale.  Brookfield Asset Management tried to acquire Archstone Inc.
in 2011 when the U.S. apartment landlord’s shareholders sought
offers for the company, according to two people with knowledge
of the effort. Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., Archstone’s
biggest shareholder at the time, later bought all of Archstone
and last year agreed to sell its assets to  Equity Residential (EQR) 
and  AvalonBay Communities Inc. (AVB)   Andrew Willis, a spokesman for Brookfield Asset, and
 Kimberly Macleod , a spokeswoman for Lehman, declined to comment
on Brookfield’s possible past interest in Archstone.  Apartment Purchases  In February, Brookfield Asset Management bought 19
apartment complexes in the Carolinas and Virginia from Babcock &
Brown Residential Inc. for $414 million. The multifamily
portfolio is part of Brookfield Property Partners, which has
assets valued at about $48 billion.  “Now that we’ve created a separate company, we have the
ability to raise our own equity in the public markets to support
our growth plans,” Clark, 54, said.  Brookfield Property Partners today consists mainly of
stakes in two publicly traded companies: 50 percent of
 Brookfield Office Properties Inc. (BPO) , the biggest U.S. office
landlord, with about 64 million square feet of space either
wholly or partly owned, and about 22 percent of  General Growth
Properties Inc. (GGP) , the No. 2 U.S. shopping-mall landlord.  General Growth  Together with warrants and fund partners,  Brookfield owns 
about 42 percent of General Growth. Brookfield also has a 37
percent direct stake in  Rouse Properties Inc. (RSE) , a mall landlord
spun off from General Growth, and a 54 percent stake with its
partners.  The stakes in Brookfield Office, General Growth and Rouse
make up about 75 percent of Brookfield Property Partners, with
private real estate funds and directly owned assets accounting
for the rest, said Coley, the Brookfield Property spokeswoman.
That percentage is likely to shrink as the company makes more
direct purchases of real estate, she said.  “The intention is to change that balance so in the near
term it’s more like 50-50,” Coley said. “Longer term, the
public companies could be less significant -- more like 10 or 20
percent,” with directly held real estate and funds making up
the balance.  Hard Rock  In 2011, Brookfield Asset Management seized control of the
Hard Rock Hotel and Casino in  Las Vegas  through a mezzanine loan
that was converted to equity, and took over three resorts from
South African casino magnate Sol Kerzner’s company, including
the Atlantis Paradise Island in the Bahamas. Those assets also
are now part of Brookfield Property Partners.  Brookfield Asset Management will spin off the property unit
through a special dividend of about 36 million units of the new
company. Holders of Class A and B shares will receive 5.74 units
of Brookfield Property for every 100 Brookfield Asset shares
held as of March 26. After the spinoff, the parent will hold an
effective economic stake of about 92.5 percent in the property
unit, according to a company filing.  The stake held by Brookfield Asset will decline as
Brookfield Property, which pays its parent a management fee,
sells shares to fund acquisitions, Coley said. Brookfield Office
Properties, meanwhile, will continue to operate as a separate
publicly traded company.  ‘Get Exposure’  “If there’s a Class A office building that’s for sale in a
market that’s a part of Brookfield Office’s strategy, they’re
going to pursue that transaction, and Brookfield Property would
get exposure through its investment in Brookfield Office
Properties,” Clark said. “The creation of Brookfield Property
does not change the way Brookfield Office operates.”  Brookfield Asset Management traces its roots to  Brazil ,
where it started as a power company in the 1890s. One of the
group’s early real estate investments was the 1971 acquisition
of the company that owns the Montreal Forum and the Montreal
Canadiens hockey team. The arena and the team were sold in 1978,
after the Canadiens won five Stanley Cup championships.  Brookfield Infrastructure Partners, which began trading in
January 2008, has  doubled  since then, compared with a 12 percent
gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Brookfield  Renewable
Energy  has risen about 21 percent since it began trading on the
Toronto Stock Exchange on Nov. 30, 2011, compared with 1.1
percent for the S&P/TSX Composite Index. The returns exclude
dividends.  Flagship Complex  Brookfield Asset Management acquired its flagship U.S.
property, formerly called the World Financial Center, in the
1990s through the recapitalization of Olympia & York USA,
previously owned by Canada’s Reichmann family. The property is
now part of Brookfield Office Properties.  Brookfield Office needs to find tenants for the complex,
where lead tenant Merrill Lynch’s lease expires in September.
New tenants are needed for 3 million square feet (280,000 square
meters) after Merrill, which leased 4.6 million square feet,
decided to keep some space and Brookfield signed leases for part
of the space being vacated. The World Financial Center was
renamed Brookfield Place last year.  “I suspect they’re wishing they didn’t have quite that
much exposure in lower  Manhattan ,” said Moore of CBRE. “That’s
a fairly large albatross hanging from their neck. It’s a big
chunk of real estate and now you’re having to compete with all
the new construction.”  Toronto Tower  Other Brookfield Office assets include the 72-story First
Canadian Place in Toronto, Bank of America Plaza in  Los Angeles ,
Houston’s Allen Center complex and properties in  Australia .  Besides its public-company holdings, Brookfield Property
Partners also has stakes in private-equity funds. Its funds
include vehicles for opportunistic investments, real estate
finance, Canadian offices and Brazilian retail properties.  “We’re seeing opportunities in almost all sectors,” Clark
said. “The  U.S. economy  is poised for growth. We think  Europe ’s
got a way to go, but we are seeing lots of opportunities
there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  