-- Bumi Unable to Verify Some Spending at Berau Unit in Indonesia
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-04-12T12:46:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/bumi-unable-to-verify-some-spending-at-berau-unit-in-indonesia.html
Bumi Plc, the coal company that has
been at the center of a dispute between co-founders  Nathaniel Rothschild  and  Indonesia ’s Bakrie family, said it has been
unable to verify some spending at its  PT Berau Coal Energy (BRAU)  unit.  Berau’s management decided there was “not sufficient
evidence to support the capitalization of certain expenditures”
estimated at about $56 million last year, Bumi said in a
statement today. The spending will be treated as a cost in the
2012 income statement and excluded from underlying results.  Bumi said March 19 that it was delaying announcing earnings
while it reviews the balance sheet of its 85 percent-owned Berau
unit. Bumi, which plunged 69 percent last year in  London 
trading, is working to separate from the Bakries after defeating
an attempt by Rothschild to take control of the Bumi board.
There’s a likelihood its full-year results, due April 24, will
need to be further delayed, Bumi said today.  Management at Jakarta-based Berau had also been unable to
fully verify about $38 million in land payments, Bumi said in
its statement. The transactions at Indonesia’s fifth-largest
coal producer are under review and a provision will be taken
once this is complete.  Bumi fell 0.7 percent to 298 pence by 1:21 p.m. in London
after earlier dropping as much as 7.2 percent.  “The new management at Berau, under new leadership from
 Bumi Plc (BUMI) , is intent on clarifying and rectifying these issues
and is engaging with the previous management team to achieve
this,” Bumi said in the statement. If “expenditures cannot be
substantiated, Berau is seeking undertakings from any
responsible parties that it will be properly compensated for the
financial impact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  