-- California Opens Shanghai Trade Office as Exports Slump
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-04-12T01:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/california-opens-shanghai-trade-office-as-exports-slump.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown  is
scheduled to reopen a trade office in China, the state’s third-
largest market, after exports to the world’s most populous
nation slipped in 2012.  Businesses are footing the $1 million annual cost of the
 Shanghai  outpost, along with support staff in California, said
Jim Wunderman, president of the  Bay Area Council , a San
Francisco-based advocacy group sponsoring the mission.  California exported $14 billion in products to China in
2012, down 1.5 percent from 2011, though still the most of any
state, according to U.S. Census Bureau  figures . The Golden State
closed its trade offices in Shanghai and Beijing in 2003 because
of budget cuts.  “We think this is a major step in building a bridge
between  China  and California,” Wunderman said in a conference
call with reporters.  Brown, a 75-year-old Democrat, was scheduled to inaugurate
the Shanghai office today as part of a seven-day trip to China,
which ranks behind only Mexico and Canada as a California export
market. Civilian aircraft parts, diamonds and communications
equipment had the highest dollar value,  according  to the Census.  Seventeen states, including Florida, Pennsylvania and
 Idaho , already have trade offices in China, according to
information compiled by Marc Ross, a spokesman for the nonprofit
U.S.-China Business Council in Washington.  North Carolina, which exported $2.5 billion in products to
China last year, operates trade offices in Hong Kong and
Shanghai at a cost of $321,870 a year, said Joshua Ellis, a
spokesman for the state’s Commerce Department.  The offices helped small- to medium-sized companies,
particularly technology businesses, gain access to Chinese
customers, Ellis said by e-mail. North Carolina exports to China
fell 3.3 percent from 2011 to 2012, according to Census data.  California’s unemployment rate fell to 9.6 percent in
February,  according  to data compiled by Bloomberg. California
 tied  with Mississippi and Nevada for that month’s highest
unemployment rates, according to the  U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics .  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  