-- California Raises $2.7 Billion as Rate Boost Lifts Demand
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h ,   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-04-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/california-raises-2-7-billion-as-rate-boost-lifts-demand.html
California  seized on demand for
tax-exempt securities and increased a general-obligation bond
offering to $2.7 billion yesterday from $2 billion after yields
on some maturities were raised.  The most-indebted state sold $1.25 billion for capital
projects and about $1.5 billion to refinance existing debt, up
from $802 million offered April 10, according to Treasurer Bill Lockyer’s office. Individual buyers ordered 72 percent of the
bonds available to them, said Tom Dresslar, a spokesman.  “A $668 million size increase, orders for almost 75
percent of the bonds offered to retail investors and, best of
all, about $350 million of savings for taxpayers -- that’s an
outstanding result,” Lockyer said yesterday in a statement.
“We couldn’t be more pleased with the market’s response.”  Still, the state raised its offer on some debt, pricing 10-
year bonds to yield 2.37 percent yesterday, up from 2.33 percent
the day before, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The final yield
is about 0.58 percentage point higher than the rate on benchmark
10-year munis, compared with a spread of 0.48 percentage point
on a borrowing last month, the  data  show.  The sale yesterday follows three California offerings in
four weeks -- a general-obligation issue, a tobacco-revenue bond
sale backed by the state’s pledge to repay, and securities tied
to state lease payments.  Buyer ‘Fatigue’  “You’re probably getting a little bit of fatigue” among
investors who buy the state’s debt, said Craig Brothers, who
helps manage $3 billion of munis at Bel Air Investment Advisors
LLC in Los Angeles. “Overall, they have a pretty successful
deal.”  California’s second general-obligation debt sale of the
year came as personal-income tax receipts, the state’s largest
revenue source, have exceeded both projections and 2012 levels
ahead of the April 15 filing deadline, according to figures
compiled by Controller John Chiang. Income-tax receipts in March
came in $324.1 million, or about 15 percent, higher than
estimated, helping to raise state revenue by $395.5 million, or
7.2 percent, above expectations, Chiang’s office  reported .  California’s general-fund revenue from July 1 through the
end of March was $4.7 billion, or 7.8 percent higher than
projections in the budget set by 75-year-old Democratic Governor
Jerry Brown, according to calculations by Chiang’s office.  Key Weeks  “While the first nine months of revenue far exceeded
expectation, income-tax deposits over the next two weeks will
show whether that uptick is solid or fleeting,” Chiang, a 50-
year-old Democrat, said in a statement. “The governor and
lawmakers have exercised discipline by waiting to make spending
decisions until we can explain whether this surge reflects
economic growth, or simply means that taxpayers paid their taxes
earlier than usual.”  California debt is becoming safer as the state economy
rebounds and Brown reduces long-term obligations, said John Ceffalio, municipal-credit analyst for New York-based
AllianceBernstein Holding LP, manager of $443 billion in assets.  “There’s always a chance of an April surprise on one side
or the other,” Ceffalio said of California revenue. “Long-
term, there’s always a chance of volatility owing to the
progressive nature of California’s income tax.”  In the March sale, Lockyer had to raise yields on some
bonds with longer maturities amid a slump in state and local
debt. Yields on 20-year securities rose to 3.57 percent from
3.39 percent as a 10-day rally in the Dow Jones Industrial
Average may have presented a more attractive alternative.  California voters in November boosted income-tax rates on
residents earning $250,000 or more, with levies on incomes of $1
million or more increasing 3 percentage points, to 13.3 percent.  Brown, who backed the increases to fund education, said in
January that California would have an $851 million surplus at
the end of June, its first in more than a decade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  