-- Camp Basks in Obscurity With Tax Code His Singular Focus
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   B r e n d a n   G r e e l e y
-- 2013-04-12T16:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/camp-basks-in-obscurity-with-tax-code-his-singular-focus.html
Republican Representative Dave Camp, chairman of what’s usually called the “powerful” House
Ways and Means Committee, has a quiet voice. He’s tall and thin
and leans in a bit when he speaks, as if to make sure you hear
him when he says, “We are going to do a bill this year.”  He means legislation to rewrite the country’s byzantine tax
laws, something that’s eluded Congress since 1986 and that has
become Camp’s singular focus, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in
its April 15 issue.  Elected to his first term in the same year as House Speaker
John Boehner, Camp has represented central  Michigan  in the House
for 22 years. As head of the Ways and Means panel, with
authority over tax laws, he holds one of the most coveted
positions in the Capitol -- though you can be excused for never
having heard of him.  Camp spends weekends in his home state, not on the Sunday
talk shows. He doesn’t offer up provocative sound bites for
cable news. Instead, he has been meeting one-on-one with
colleagues -- including every freshman Republican in the House -
- trying to convince them there’s a way for  Washington  to break
out of the cycle of standoffs over taxes and spending. He thinks
they can come up with a deal that’s short of a grand bargain and
still ambitious.  What politicians call tax reform sounds like a good idea --
until they start looking at the details and trade-offs. The
George W. Bush administration considered a rewrite of the U.S.
tax code in 2001, and opted to lower rates instead. Bush
commissioned a bipartisan panel in 2005 and then ignored its
report.  Corporate Rates  Camp, 59, wants to try again, aiming to cut the corporate
and individual tax rates to 25 percent. In his budget plan
released April 10, President  Barack Obama  called for a corporate
rewrite that’s similar to Camp’s approach. They part ways when
it comes to individuals, dividing over whether a tax overhaul
should lower rates or increase revenue. It’s a major obstacle
that Camp hasn’t explained how he’ll overcome.  To cut rates as much as Republicans would like, they’d need
to find $5.7 trillion in offsetting tax increases over the next
decade. That means Camp would have to consider curtailing or
eliminating middle-class breaks for mortgage interest and
charitable contributions. To simplify the system, he’d have to
take on industries by doing away with their coveted breaks.  “The question is, do we get the kind of alignment of
interests that are enough to overcome the centrifugal forces of
the special interests that pull apart tax reform,” said Elaine Kamarck, a former aide to Al Gore who is now helping run a
coalition of companies focused on reducing the corporate rate,
including  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and  Macy’s Inc. (M)   Resisting Pressure  The process will be tedious, which is why it’s well-suited
to a low-profile journeyman like Camp. He’s fond of saying the
U.S. tax code is as long as the Bible with none of the good
news. After taking over Ways and Means in 2011, Camp resisted
pressure within his party to do a small deal that would have
helped companies bring overseas profits home. He didn’t want to
give away leverage he’d need for a more ambitious rewrite with
the lower rates.  “His approach initially was to set a goal without any
indication of how to get there,” says Michigan Representative
Sander Levin, Camp’s Democratic counterpart on Ways and Means,
who’s skeptical that Camp can meet his revenue and rate targets
in a way that doesn’t make the tax code worse for most
households.  2011 Supercommittee  To get a bill passed, leaders can craft it from the top
down -- over sandwiches with the president or through a “blue-
ribbon” commission or supercommittee. Camp sat on Obama’s debt-
reduction committee in 2010 and voted against its
recommendations. He was a member of the failed 2011
supercommittee.  Or a chairman can take matters into his own hands and push
a bill through his committee, securing votes from rank-and-file
members and making it awkward for leadership and the White House
to ignore the results. So far, that’s Camp’s approach.  “There are multiple paths to get tax reform done,” says
Sage Eastman, a Camp aide. “Anyone who thinks they know exactly
which path it has to take or will take is being foolish.”  Instead of waiting for Boehner to negotiate a deal with the
White House that would leave Camp to carry out instructions from
above, he’s starting a process much like the one kids learn
about in grade school.  ‘Ground Up’  “This is not writing the bill in a leadership office and
rolling it out on the floor,” Camp says. “This is about
building a bill, piece by piece, from the ground up.”  A successful effort in the House could push the
administration to show leadership that has been lacking, said
Michael Graetz, a law professor at Columbia University in New
York.  “If you get a major tax bill that is voted on a bipartisan
basis out of the House, then I don’t see how the White House can
stand idly by and watch it move over into the Senate without
entering the fray,” he said.  In February, Camp and Levin agreed to divide Ways and Means
into 11 working groups, each led by a Democrat and a Republican
and each assigned to study one piece of the tax code.  The groups have been soliciting input and drawing tax-break
defenders out of the woodwork. Literally. The president of
Millard Lumber in Omaha,  Nebraska , wrote to defend last-in,
first-out accounting, and the Wood Machinery Manufacturers of
America pitched write-offs for capital expenses.  Camp set April 15 -- the same day individual tax returns
are due -- as the deadline for individuals and businesses to
submit comments.  Overseas Income  Camp has released draft proposals for revamping narrow
areas of the tax laws. Under his plan for overseas income, U.S.
companies would receive a 95 percent break on their foreign
profits in exchange for limitations on their ability to shift
the money to low-tax countries.  His proposal on derivatives -- which Obama embraced this
week -- would require investors to pay annual taxes based on
changes in value, even if they hadn’t sold, which would make it
harder for the wealthy to collect income through lightly taxed
capital gains. Camp suggested tightening some of the provisions
that lower the tax bills of businesses organized as partnerships
instead of corporations.  Such changes would be the biggest in decades. Camp’s drafts
so far represent a small portion of the law and aren’t fully
spelled out.  ‘Tough Choices’  “The important and tough choices remain very much
unaddressed,” Levin said.  Camp says he’s getting there: The committee has held a
hearing on charitable deductions, and he’s planning another on
mortgage interest. He vows to get a bill out of his committee
this year.  Texas Republican Representative Kevin Brady, who sits on
Ways and Means, says over the past two years Camp has proved he
can negotiate with Democrats on issues such as a payroll tax cut
extension.  “There’s not a day that goes by that he doesn’t wake up
asking, ‘How can I move fundamental tax reform forward,’ and
then acting on it,” Brady said.  That includes meeting weekly with his Senate counterpart,
Max Baucus of  Montana , the Democratic chairman of the Finance
Committee.  “I see this relationship to be very strong,” Baucus said.
“Now, we may in the end reach an impasse. It’s possible there’s
a disagreement. But the mutual respect is solid.”  1986 Agreement  That spirit of cooperation is important, said Bill Bradley,
who helped forge the 1986 agreement when he was a Democratic
senator from New Jersey. Bradley said Camp should unveil a
specific proposal as soon as he can to clarify the debate and
force “panic” among special-interest groups.  “There’s got to be trust,” Bradley said. “And if there’s
not trust then you can’t deal with anything complex or anything
that is controversial, because then you’re the prisoner of the
special interests that will go out and yell the loudest.”  A little mutual respect and trust can go a long way. In
1996, President Bill Clinton twice vetoed Republican bills to
change the country’s welfare programs. On the third try, a
Republican who’d helped to write the bill persuaded  Newt Gingrich  to drop cuts to Medicaid, and Clinton signed the bill.  The congressman was Dave Camp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Greeley in Washington at 
 bgreeley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  