-- Canada Dollar Falls on U.S. Retail Sales Drop, European Concern
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-04-12T21:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/canadian-dollar-falls-as-renewed-focus-on-europe-sours-sentiment.html
The Canadian dollar fell against
its U.S. counterpart for the first time this week as U.S retail
sales dropped the most in nine months and on reports that steps
to strengthen  Europe ’s financial system were faltering.  The currency pared a weekly gain against the greenback as
retail sales in the U.S.,  Canada ’s largest trading partner, fell
0.4 percent in March after a 1.1 percent gain the month before.
Cyprus was forced to deny it required additional European aid
and Germany’s Handelsblatt newspaper reported a discussion on
direct bank recapitalization from Europe’s bailout fund was
“going in circles.” Futures bets that Canada’s currency would
fall against its U.S. counterpart outnumbered wagers it would
rise by the most in six years, data today showed.  “One of the reasons people bought Canada was the
expectation the U.S. would recover,” said  Sebastien Galy , a
foreign-exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA, by phone
from New York. “The business cycle in the U.S. is showing
increasingly some signs of softness which might last a while.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, fell 0.3 percent to C$1.0136
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. The currency gained 0.4
percent this week. One loonie buys 98.66 U.S. cents.  The Canadian dollar should fall to C$1.02 per U.S dollar,
Galy said, before rising again as the U.S. recovery picks up
later in the year.  Market Mix  “The Canadian story was a lot of hopes, and I think that
should calm down, we should settle in a range,” Galy said.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators increased their
bets that the Canadian dollar will decline against the U.S.
dollar, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers on a decline in the
Canadian dollar compared with those on a gain -- so-called net
shorts -- was 71,133 on April 9, the most since March 16, 2007,
and compared with net shorts of 64,544 a week earlier.  Canada’s 10-year  government bonds  rose, with yields falling
five basis points or 0.05 percentage point to 1.74 percent. The
1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 rose 42 cents to
C$97.82.  Futures of crude oil, Canada’s largest export, fell 2.9
percent to $90.93 per barrel, touching a one-month low. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks lost 0.3 percent.  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart has fallen 27 basis points to
6.07 percent since April 8, when it reached its highest point in
three weeks. Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to
set option prices, signals the expected pace of currency swings.  Weaker Tone  “It’s just a risk-off scenario because of continuing
problems in Europe that’s caused the Canadian dollar to sell
off,” said David Bradley, director of foreign-exchange trading
in Toronto at Scotia Capital Inc., a unit of  Bank of Nova
Scotia. (BNS)   The  Bank of Canada  is forecast to leave its benchmark
 interest rate  at 1 percent at its policy meeting next week,
according to all 23 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “The Canadian economic landscape remains frustrating as
the expected rotation from consumer spending/housing/government
spending towards external trade/ capital spending  is
sputtering,”  Mark Chandler , head of fixed-income strategy at
Royal Bank of Canada, wrote in a research note. “Yet another
downgrade to growth is expected from the BOC next week.”  Central Bank  The central bank’s March 6 policy statement called for the
economy to “pick up through 2013” on its way to 2 percent
annual growth, while Governor  Mark Carney  reiterated the central
bank’s eventual next move will probably be an increase to the 1
percent benchmark target rate. Policy makers meet on April 17.  The Canadian dollar has gained 0.1 percent in the last
month against nine other developed-nation currencies tracked by
the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index, trailing the
currencies of its commodity exporting peers of  Australia  and  New
Zealand , which have gained 0.7 percent and 3 percent
respectively. The  U.S. dollar  lost 1 percent and the euro fell
0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  