-- Canada Oils Weaken as U.S. Economic Data Points to Lower Demand
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-04-12T18:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/canada-oils-weaken-as-u-s-economic-data-points-to-lower-demand.html
Canadian crudes weakened on the
 spot market  as U.S. economic data pointed toward lower fuel
demand.  U.S. retail  sales  fell 0.4 percent last month, the Commerce
Department said, while a gauge of U.S. consumer sentiment fell
to a nine-month low. U.S. crude stockpiles also increased to a
22-year high last week, according to the Energy Information
Administration’s April 10 report, potentially diminishing demand
for Canadian shipments.  Western Canada Select, a heavy oil blend of oil-sands
bitumen, weakened by 20 cents a barrel to a $14.50 discount to
U.S. West Texas Intermediate oil, according to Calgary oil
broker Net Energy Inc. Syncrude, a light oil produced from oil-
sands upgraders, weakened by 25 cents to a $6.25 premium to WTI,
Net Energy said.  Both Canadian grades are retreating from six-month highs
reached earlier this month amid a seasonal decline in output
from  Alberta  during the spring breakup, when drilling and
equipment transportation is slowed. Several upgraders that
produce light oil from bitumen are also scheduled to undergo
maintenance this month and next, which would cut supplies and
support prices.  Western Canada Select reached a six-month high versus WTI
on April 5, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Canadian  oil rig  count dropped to 83 this week from 509 March 1,
Houston oil field-services company Baker Hughes Inc. said today.  Syncrude prices reached a six-month high April 2 on
speculation supplies will decline as upgraders that produce the
grade are being taken down for maintenance.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  said it will perform a seven-week
turnaround at its 350,000-barrel-a-day Fort McMurray, Alberta,
upgrader in April and May, and  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) 
said it plans to shut down its 110,000-barrel-a-day Horizon
upgrader for 18 days in May.  Royal Dutch Shell (RDSA)  said April 4 its
255,000-barrel-a-day Scotford upgrader in Alberta was undergoing
planned maintenance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  