-- Carlyle Group Says More African Investment Deals Are Imminent
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-04-12T14:27:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/carlyle-group-says-more-african-investment-deals-are-imminent.html
Carlyle Group  LP, the world’s
second-largest private-equity firm, is close to signing
investment deals in sub-Saharan  Africa  to tap into rising
consumer spending on the world’s poorest continent.  Carlyle came to the region two years ago and has opened
offices in Johannesburg and Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial capital,
amid plans to invest $500 million. It was part of group that
invested $210 million in Export Trading Group, a Tanzanian
agricultural commodity company, last year, the only African deal
it’s concluded to date.  “We have other investments that are either on the verge of
being completed or in the pipeline,” David Marchick,
Washington-based Carlyle’s managing director, told reporters in
 Cape Town  today. “We have a very broad pipeline of deals. We
are active in a number of sectors in a number of countries.”  Global buyout companies are paying increased attention to
Africa as they seek to diversify away from western economies to
earn higher returns. Sub-Saharan Africa’s economy grew 4.7
percent last year and is projected to grow 5.5 percent this
year, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Private-equity transactions in the region jumped by 19
percent to 43 deals in the first nine months of last year,
compared to a decline of 17 percent in  China  to 179
transactions, according to the  Emerging Markets  Private Equity
Association.  Natural Resources  Carlyle wants “to tap into the growth that we have seen in
Africa over the last few years,” said Marlon Chigwende,
Carlyle’s managing director and co-head for sub-Saharan Africa.
“We like the quality of the growth. We think that is
sustainable over the medium to long term. We think there are
incredible opportunities to help fast-growing medium-sized
companies grow even faster.”  With Africa holding some of the world’s largest reserves of
minerals including gold and tin and with fast expansion in the
use of technology including mobile phones, private-equity
investments in the region have focused mainly on natural
resources and telecommunications.  Carlyle is interested in “anything that touches the
consumer, fast-moving  consumer goods , agriculture, mobile
telephony, financial services,” Chigwende said. Two-thirds of
recent growth in Africa “has been consumer related.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at   nseria@bloomberg.net  