-- Carlyle-Backed HD Supply Files for IPO, Seeks to Cut Debt
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d ,   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-04-12T20:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/carlyle-backed-hd-supply-files-for-ipo-seeks-to-cut-debt.html
HD Supply Holdings Inc., the
construction-supply business owned by private-equity firms
including  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , filed for a $1 billion U.S. initial
public offering.  The offering size is a placeholder amount that may change.
Proceeds from the IPO will go toward repaying debt, the Atlanta-
based company said in a regulatory filing today. The company,
led by Chief Executive Officer Joseph J. DeAngelo, had $8.93
billion in total liabilities as of Feb. 3.  HD Supply generated $8 billion in sales in the year ended
Feb. 3 operating in more than 600 locations in the U.S. and
 Canada .  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the world’s biggest home-improvement
chain, sold HD Supply in 2007 to a group including Carlyle, Bain
Capital LLC and Clayton, Dubilier & Rice LLC for $8.5 billion.  Home Depot had reduced the price at the time of the sale
after the U.S. credit squeeze shrank demand for leveraged buyout
debt. The three buyout firms each own about 28 percent of HD
Supply, the filing shows.  The offer coincides with the rebounding housing market and
rising demand by contractors. In Home Depot’s fourth quarter
ended Feb. 3, sales to professionals grew as quickly as sales to
consumers after lagging behind during the housing downturn,
Chief Executive Officer  Frank Blake  told analysts in February.  Housing Rebound  Blake sold HD Supply, reversing former CEO  Robert Nardelli ’s expansion of the unit, to focus on boosting profit at
Home Depot’s stores. Net income at Home Depot has advanced
annually since 2009, pushing shares higher in each of those  four
years  and up 16 percent this year through yesterday.  HD Supply is following a February IPO by Boise Cascade Co.,
a U.S. producer of wood products used in  home construction . Its
shares surged 49 percent from Feb. 5 through yesterday after the
stock sale raised $284 million including an overallotment.  “Perhaps the success of the Boise IPO helped drive their
confidence to do this,”  David Strasser , an analyst at Janney
Montgomery Scott in  New York , said today in an e-mail. He rates
Home Depot neutral, the equivalent of a hold rating.  Builders began work on more houses in February and permits
for future construction climbed to the highest level in almost
five years. Housing starts climbed by 0.8 percent in February to
a 917,000 annualized pace, the Commerce Department reported last
month in  Washington . Permits rose 4.6 percent to a 946,000 rate,
the most since June 2008.  IPO Surge  Companies in industries from homebuilding to retail are
fueling a pickup in U.S. IPOs this year, taking advantage of
rising investor appetite as U.S. stocks surge to record highs.
U.S. initial offerings have raised $10.3 billion so far in 2013,
35 percent more than in the year-earlier period, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  HD Supply joins other companies bought in large leveraged
buyouts that are now selling shares to the public. Bausch & Lomb
Holdings Inc., the eye-care company that Warburg Pincus LLC took
private in a $4.6 billion transaction in 2007, filed for an IPO
last month, regulatory filings show. Realogy Holdings Corp.,
which Apollo Global Management LLC bought the same year for $6.8
billion in the biggest leveraged buyout of a real-estate firm,
raised $1.24 billion in an October IPO including an
overallotment option, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Home Depot, based in Atlanta,  rose  2.4 percent to $73.62 at
the close in New York.  Bank of America Corp., Barclays Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Credit Suisse Group AG are among the banks managing the
share sale. The company didn’t specify which ticker it would use
or which exchange it would list on.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Greensboro,  North Carolina , at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  