-- McGraw-Hill Bid to Consolidate State Suits Gets Hearing
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-04-12T19:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/mcgraw-hill-bid-to-consolidate-ratings-cases-to-go-before-panel.html
A McGraw-Hill Cos.’ bid to
consolidate lawsuits filed by 16 states and the District of
Columbia, accusing it of knowingly issuing misleading securities
ratings, is to be heard by a federal judicial panel next month.  Several states sued New York-based McGraw-Hill in February
in conjunction with a U.S. Justice Department action accusing
the company’s  Standard & Poor’s  unit of boosting bond ratings to
curry favor with clients. McGraw-Hill has called the allegations
meritless.  McGraw-Hill last month had many of the cases moved from
state courts to local federal courts and asked that they be put
on hold while it sought to have them bundled for pretrial
depositions and document review in federal court in New York.
The Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation will hear
arguments on the request on May 30 at the U.S. courthouse in
Louisville,  Kentucky , according to an order entered April 10.  “Taken as a whole, the actions represent a concerted
effort to supplant, if not undermine, a detailed, comprehensive,
and carefully balanced federal scheme through patchwork and
inevitably conflicting rulings across the country,” McGraw-Hill
told the panel in a petition filed last month.  States with cases that could be transferred include
Arizona, Colorado, Iowa, Missouri, North Carolina, Washington
and the  District of Columbia . Absent from that list are the
suits filed by  California  and the federal government.  Case Halted  U.S. District Judge Matthew Kennelly in Chicago on March 20
halted progress on an S&P case filed last year by  Illinois 
Attorney General Lisa Madigan.  McGraw-Hill had that case moved to federal court two weeks
earlier, asking that it be halted pending the multidistrict
panel ruling. Madigan asked the judge to return her case to
state court in Chicago, where it was filed.  While granting the defense request for a stay, Kennelly
also ordered the parties to brief him on issues concerning the
return of the case to state court. He said he would rule May 15.  A federal judge in  Pennsylvania  last week stopped progress
on that state’s lawsuit pending the panel’s ruling. McGraw-Hill
has filed a similar request in  Connecticut , where it was sued in
2010. That motion has been opposed by the state and federal
governments.  The Illinois case is People of the State of Illinois v.
 McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP) , 13-cv-01725, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Illinois (Chicago). The Connecticut case is
Connecticut v. McGraw-Hill Cos., 13-00311, U.S. District Court,
District of Connecticut (New Haven). The U.S. case is U.S. v.
McGraw-Hill Cos., 13-cv-00779, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  