-- Chile Keeps Region’s Highest Key Rate Unchanged as Growth Eases
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-04-12T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/chile-keeps-region-s-highest-key-rate-unchanged-as-growth-eases.html
Chile ’s central bank kept its
benchmark lending rate unchanged for the 15th consecutive month
yesterday as South America’s fastest-growing economy after Peru
starts to show signs of cooling.  Policy makers, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara, held
the key rate at 5 percent, as forecast by all 13 analysts
 surveyed by Bloomberg . Chile’s inflation-adjusted interest rate
is 3.5 percent, the highest among major Latin American
economies.  The decision to keep rates unchanged, even as inflation
slows below the target range, is beginning to have an impact.
The world’s largest copper producer grew at the slowest pace
since September 2011 in February, after exceeding analyst and
central bank forecasts last year, easing pressure for tighter
monetary policy. The bank took note of the slowdown in a
statement accompanying yesterday’s decision.  “It signaled something of a deceleration could be coming
if you consider credit conditions and the fact that data for
February were below expectations,” Felipe Jaque, an economist
at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , said by phone from
Santiago after the decision. “This is incipient.”  Two-year interest rate swaps, which reflect traders’ views
of average borrowing costs, fell 14 basis points, or 0.14
percentage point, to 4.95 percent yesterday from the end of
March. That implies policy makers will reduce borrowing costs
over the 24-month horizon after swaps in March pointed toward an
eventual increase, according to calculations made by Bloomberg.  Slowing Down  The economy as measured by the  Imacec index , which is a
proxy for gross domestic product, expanded 3.8 percent in
February from the year before, the central bank said in a report
published April 5. From the month earlier, the index contracted
a seasonally-adjusted 0.1 percent.  Credit is tightening as the supply of loans for builders
and households becomes more restrictive, the central bank said
in a survey of banks published April 10.  “February’s activity indicator was below market
expectations,” the central bank said in a statement
accompanying yesterday’s decision. “Credit conditions are
somewhat more restrictive.”  Retail sales in February expanded 7.4 percent, the slowest
increase in four months, while manufacturing output climbed 0.9
percent after increasing 4.1 percent in January.  Forecast Revised  The slowdown comes at the same time that policy makers this
month raised their 2013 growth forecast by a quarter-point to a
range of 4.5 percent to 5.5 percent, adding in the April 2
report that growth still threatens to put pressure on consumer
prices. Analysts polled by Bloomberg forecast GDP will climb 4.8
percent in 2013, the fastest pace in South America behind  Peru .  The economy expanded 5.6 percent last year.  Inflation rates will climb as well, increasing to 2.8
percent by year-end from 1.5 percent in March, according to
central bank forecasts. Still, 2.8 percent is less than the 2.9
percent forecast by policy makers in December and below the mid-
point of the 2 percent to 4 percent target range, indicating the
central bank board may not see the need to tighten policy any
further.  “The central bank has sent a message that it doesn’t have
extremely powerful motives to increase rates soon,” Banchile
Inversiones economist Nathan Pincheira said by phone from
Santiago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 