-- China Said to Plan Replacing Chen at Largest Policy Lender
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-12T05:40:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/china-said-to-plan-replacing-chen-at-world-s-largest-policy-bank.html
China  Development Bank Corp.
Chairman Chen Yuan will step down, handing the reins of the
world’s largest policy lender to Bank of Communications Co.’s Hu Huaibang, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  An announcement may not be made until next week, said the
people, asking not to be named because they aren’t authorized to
speak to reporters on the matter. The South China Morning Post
newspaper reported Hu’s move to Beijing-based CDB yesterday.  Chen, son of one of Communist China’s founding fathers, in
1998 took over a bank with a bad-loan ratio of more than 40
percent. The 68-year-old has pared that to less than 1 percent
while building an institution bigger than the World Bank, with
 assets  last year of 7.37 trillion  yuan  ($1.2 trillion).  “Chen Yuan is currently one of the very few big shots in
China who has financial experience and rich political and
economic ties,” Chen Xingyu, a Shanghai-based analyst at
Phillip Securities Group, said in a telephone interview. “Chen
doesn’t just represent himself or CDB, he represents China.”  Premier Li Keqiang is relying on CDB to achieve the
government’s policies of urbanization and cutting pollution. The
state-owned bank created the system of local financing for
infrastructure projects during Chen’s first year at the helm,
helping to fund highways, schools, dams and housing developments
across the country. The system helped cushion China from the
global financial crisis.  Local Governments  CDB is the biggest lender to so-called local government
financing vehicles that have accumulated at least 10.7 trillion
yuan in debt. Half of the bank’s lending this year will go to
urbanization, according to a Jan. 29 notice on its website.  Hu, 57, has been chairman of  Bank of Communications  since
2008. On his watch the Shanghai-based lender reported average 20
percent annual  profit growth , while its assets almost doubled
from December 2008 to 5.27 trillion yuan at the end of 2012. The
bank also bolstered its capital and deepened cooperation with
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , which owns about 19 percent.  Chen will help set up a new development bank for the BRICS
countries, which group China with  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and
South Africa, Caixin reported yesterday, citing people close to
CDB that it didn’t identify.  “Chen joining the BRICS bank would mean China wants to
keep building CDB’s international presence,” said Phillip
Securities’ Chen, no relation to Chen Yuan.  A press officer at Bank of Communications in  Shanghai  said
the lender hasn’t received any notice regarding the change in
management. Xu Fei, a spokesman for CDB, didn’t answer calls to
his mobile and office phones and didn’t immediately respond to
an e-mailed request to comment on the personnel move.  Zero Risk  The appointment of Hu may speed up the process of
converting CDB into a commercial lender under a restructuring
plan approved in 2007. While the bank became a joint-stock
company in December 2008, holders of its debt are still allowed
to categorize such investments as “zero” risk, meaning they
don’t need to set aside additional capital to cover potential
losses. That’s helped keep CDB’s borrowing costs low.  CDB, like China’s other two policy banks, doesn’t take
deposits, instead financing its loans through debt sales in the
domestic and overseas markets. The lender, wholly owned by the
state via the Finance Ministry and a sovereign wealth fund, got
a $20 billion government capital injection in December 2007.  Green Energy  Under Chen, the son of Mao Zedong’s economic czar Chen Yun,
CDB became the nation’s largest lender for funding acquisitions
and investments abroad, with more overseas lending than any of
China’s four main commercial banks. At the end of last year CDB
had $248.2 billion in foreign-currency loans.  Since 2008, CDB has lent  Venezuela  more than $40 billion to
be paid back through oil shipments. In the past decade it made
$65 billion in lines of credit available to  ZTE Corp. (000063)  and Huawei
Technologies Co. to fund their global expansion.  CDB has also been the biggest lender to China’s alternative
energy companies, including Yingli Green Energy Holding Co.
Since 2010, the bank has committed credit lines of $68.8 billion
to solar and wind companies, according to figures from Bloomberg
New Energy Finance.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  