-- China Stocks Fall Before GDP Data, Capping Weekly Drop
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-04-12T07:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/china-stock-futures-rise-banks-may-gain-as-huijin-boosts-stakes.html
China’s stocks  fell, capping a
third week of losses, and a gauge of price swings dropped to a
five-year low before gross domestic product data next week.  Gree Electric Appliances Inc. (000651)  and SAIC Motor Corp., the
largest Chinese makers of air-conditioners and autos, led
declines for consumer-discretionary companies.  Air China Ltd. (601111) 
and Cosco Shipping Co. retreated at least 1 percent. Henan
Shuanghui Investment & Development Co., a pork processor, rose
2.8 percent on speculation slumping hog prices will cut costs.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 0.6 percent to
2,206.78 at the close, the lowest level since Dec. 27. The
measure lost 0.8 percent in the past five days as data on
exports and new bank lending boosted concerns about the economy.
The CSI 300 Index fell 0.6 percent to 2,462.11. The Hang Seng
 China  Enterprises Index slipped 0.5 percent. The  Bloomberg
China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  slid 1.1 percent yesterday.  Stocks fell “ahead of the GDP data on Monday,” Zhang Haidong, an analyst at Tebon Securities Co., said by telephone
from Shanghai. “Recent data show the economy is still weak and
investors are still digesting bad news such as property curbs,
so we are undergoing a period of correction.”  The Shanghai index has fallen 9.4 percent from a Feb. 6
high amid concern steps to cool  property  prices will drag on
economic growth. The measure changed directions more than a
dozen times as 10-day volatility reached 6, the lowest level
since the global financial crisis in 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors have priced in recent news so there’s nothing
to excite the market, so volatility is at a low point,” Zhang
said.  Consumer Stocks  Valuations on the gauge dropped to 9.1 times projected 12-
month earnings yesterday, near the lowest level since Dec. 13
and less than the seven-year average of 15.8,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Gree Electric lost 2 percent to 26.20 yuan. The company
reported 14 percent growth in first-quarter profit, according to
a preliminary earnings statement. Profit growth missed market-
consensus expectations of a 20 percent gain, Zhou Haichen,
analyst at Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co., wrote in a report
today. SAIC retreated 1.9 percent to 15.29 yuan.  The National Bureau of Statistics will release economic
growth data for the first quarter on April 15 along with March
figures for industrial production and retail sales and first-
quarter fixed-asset investment.  China’s economy  probably grew 8 percent in the January-
March period from a year earlier, according to the median
forecast of 40 economists, down from an 8.2 percent projection
in February.  Mixed Data  Industrial production probably rose 10.1 percent from a
year earlier, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey. That compares with 9.9 percent in January-February
combined, which was the slowest for the period since 2009.  Chinese stocks have had to weather a slew of economic
reports this week, including data showing March exports falling
more than forecast, inflation easing and producer prices
slumping for a 13th month. Data yesterday showed new loans and
money supply exceeding analysts’ forecasts, prompting Nomura
Holdings Inc. to predict policy tightening ahead.  Data on  money supply  and total social financing may
heighten concerns about gains in asset prices, analysts led by
Zhu Jianfang at Citic Securities Co. wrote in a report dated
yesterday. An increase in reserve-ratio requirement may also be
reasonable option in the case of fund inflows, the report said.  Excess Liquidity  “The market interprets these data as too much liquidity
being put into the market, which may be followed by some
tightening to prevent real estate prices from going higher,”
Elena Ogram, who manages $50 million in emerging-market assets
at Bank am Bellevue AG in Zurich, said by e-mail. “On one hand,
the economic recovery is subdued and authorities are trying to
support it by extra liquidity. On the other, the extra liquidity
may push real estate prices higher.”  Air China, the nation’s biggest international carrier, lost
1 percent to 5.12  yuan . Cosco Shipping Co., a unit of the
biggest shipper, dropped 1.6 percent to 3.63 yuan.  China’s government bonds are heading for their longest
rally in two years on concern the bird influenza outbreak will
damp demand for food and services in an economy rebounding from
its weakest growth in 13 years.  The nation’s 35 cases of H7N9 flu virus infections and nine
deaths are raising the specter of the 2003 global pandemic of
severe acute respiratory syndrome that killed 774 people and
caused almost $40 billion in economic losses.　  Henan Shuanghui advanced 2.8 percent to 78.52 yuan. The
pork processer benefits as costs drop amid a slump in hog
prices. Pork prices posted a weekly drop of 2.4 percent as of
April 9. As  Shanghai  cracks down on distributors following the
discovery of thousands of dead pigs floating in the city’s main
waterway, Henan Shuanghui is preparing to spend 5 billion yuan
($805 million) on expansion this year, Zhang Taixi, president of
the company, said in an interview on March 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  