-- Companies in U.S. Add to Inventories at Slowest Pace Since June
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-04-12T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/companies-in-u-s-add-to-inventories-at-slowest-pace-since-june.html
Companies in the U.S. added to
inventories in February at the slowest pace in eight months,
putting them in a better position to deal with a subsequent
slowdown in demand.  The 0.1 percent increase in  stockpiles , the smallest since
June, followed a revised 0.9 percent gain in January, Commerce
Department figures showed today in  Washington . The median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey projected a 0.4 percent advance.
Sales climbed 1.2 percent, the biggest jump since September.  Another Commerce Department report today showed sales at
retailers unexpectedly fell in March by the most in nine months
as employment slowed, showing households ended the first quarter
on softer footing. Smaller increases in inventories mean
companies will not need to pull back as much this quarter even
as demand cools.  Retailers’ stockpiles, the only part of today’s inventory
report not previously released, climbed 0.3 percent in February
while sales jumped 1.2 percent.  The other Commerce Department report today showed retail
sales dropped 0.4 percent last month, the biggest decrease since
June, following a 1 percent gain in February. Department stores
and electronics dealers were among the merchants with weakest
showings.  Businesses had enough items on hand to last 1.28 months at
the current sales pace, the least since December and down from
1.29 the prior month.  The median  forecast  for business inventories was based on a
Bloomberg survey of 48 economists. Estimates ranged from little
change to gains of 0.6 percent. January’s figure was revised
from an originally reported 1 percent increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  