-- Cool Weather, Wet Soils Leave U.K. Crops Weeks Behind, ADAS Says
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-04-12T16:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/cool-weather-wet-soils-leave-u-k-crops-weeks-behind-adas-says.html
Air and soil temperatures have
warmed in parts of the U.K. at six weeks to eight weeks behind
the average pace, leaving the development of all crops “well
behind normal,” consultant ADAS U.K. said.  A gauge of “thermal time,” measured by adding average
temperatures above freezing together for a cumulative figure,
show that since Sept. 1, there have been 300 day degrees less
than the average of the past 30 years, ADAS said today in an
online  report , citing measurements from Boxworth, England, near
Cambridge. As of April 1, degree days matched the total of what
normally would have been achieved by early February. Soil
temperatures have warmed at a pace six weeks behind normal.  “The slow accumulation of temperature is shown in the
growth in crops,” ADAS said. All crops and grass “are well
behind normal,” according to the report.  Winter crop area probably dropped by about 20 percent
because of excess rain last autumn, and spring plant varieties
are being sown in poor conditions, with soils cold and wet, ADAS
said. Hay and silage yields probably will decline as grass
growth slows, and harvests probably will be delayed.  Most rapeseed crops in the U.K. had six or fewer leaves at
the end of March, a time when plants usually are more developed
and are increasing in height, ADAS said. Some plants also have
lost most of their leaves from pigeon grazing.  Farmers growing horticulture crops in greenhouses face
higher energy costs to keep plants warm, and plants are
developing behind schedule because of low light levels, ADAS
said. Overwintered vegetable crops are developing as much as 5
weeks slower than normal, it said.  While bud development for apple and pear trees is as much
as two weeks behind normal, crops tend to fare well when delayed
growth is followed by rapidly warming temperatures, ADAS said.
Strawberry development is “very late,” which may shorten the
window for harvesting and lead to unpicked fruit. The activity
of bees, which aid pollination, also has declined, so
strawberries may be misshaped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 