-- Dogan Climbs to One-Month High on Expansion Bets: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-04-12T15:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/dogan-climbs-to-one-month-high-on-expansion-bets-istanbul-mover.html
Dogan Sirketler Grubu Holding AS (DOHOL) ,
the owner of  Turkey ’s biggest media company, rose for a second
day to a one-month high on speculation it will benefit from
expansion plans.  The  stock  gained 1.8 percent to 1.13 liras at the close in
Istanbul, extending its two-day rally to 4.6 percent. Almost 36
million shares changed hands, or 6 percent more than the three-
month daily average. The  Borsa Istanbul National 100 (XU100)  index rose
0.6 percent, extending this week’s gain to 3.1 percent.  Dogan’s two day advance, the biggest since March 6, came
after Chairwoman Begumhan Dogan Faralyali told Bloomberg
yesterday that the company is planning to buy media assets in
eastern  Europe  and the Middle East. Chief Executive Officer
Yahya Uzdiyen said the same day Dogan may bid in government
auctions for power plants. The holding company owns  Dogan Yayin
Holding AS (DYHOL) , a media group, and closely held Dogan Enerji AS, an
energy company.  “Dogan has deep pockets for new investments,” Emir Bolen,
an analyst at Global Securities in Istanbul, said in a phone
interview today. “Possible acquisitions of energy assets this
year would provide the shares with a short- and medium-term
catalyst and that’s reflected in this two-day advance.”  Dogan had net cash of $1.2 billion as of September 2012,
according to a presentation on the company’s website. Its energy
unit has investments across Turkey in hydropower and wind. It
also has a stake in an oil field in Arbil,  Iraq , which has
recoverable reserves of 136 million barrels, according to the
presentation.  The company reported net income of 155.7 million liras ($87
million) in 2012, from a loss of 753.7 million liras a year
earlier, according to a filing with Borsa Istanbul yesterday.
Sales climbed 10 percent to 3.16 billion liras in the period.  Global Securities has a buy recommendation for the shares
and a 12-month price target of 1.44 liras, according to a March
19 report by Bolen and Bertan Ilbak. Eight analysts  recommend 
investors buy the stock and two say hold, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  