-- Drive-Ins Skirt Extinction in Cinedigm Deal for Digital
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-04-12T23:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/drive-ins-skirt-extinction-in-cinedigm-deal-for-digital-upgrades.html
Cinedigm Digital Cinema Corp. (CIDM)  has
signed agreements with more than 100 drive-in theaters to
install digital projectors, a move aimed at helping owners
compete with modern multiplexes.  The conversions from 35mm film are expected to be complete
by early summer, when studios release major films including new
“Iron Man” and “Star Trek” installments, Cinedigm and the
 National Association of Theatre Owners  said in a statement.  The cost of digital conversion, typically about $70,000,
has presented a dilemma for cash-strapped drive-ins, which
typically operate one or two screens for a few months of the
year. Under the agreements with almost a third of the remaining
drive-ins, studios will help owners repay loans for projectors
and screens. The plan is similar to one that helped indoor
cinema chains make the switch.  “We’re very focused on the smaller exhibitors, the ones
with fewer screens,” Cinedigm Chief Executive Officer Chris McGurk said in an interview. “They’re such a piece of
Americana, it would be an absolute shame if we could not help
them convert to digital.”  The number of drive-in cinemas in the U.S. has declined to
357 from a high of 4,063 in 1958, according to the website of
the  United Drive-In Theatre Owners Association.   Cinedigm, which also distributes independent films to
theaters and for home video, will promote the funding program
next week in Las Vegas at CinemaCon, the annual trade show for
cinema operators, McGurk said.  Studios are phasing out film prints of movies, creating a
dilemma for cinemas that haven’t switched to digital. The move
eliminates the cost of film and subsequent expense of shipping
thousands of reels to theaters for every movie they release.  Like the digital financing program for indoor theaters, the
drive-in plan calls for studios to share savings with theater
operators to cover conversion costs, according to the statement.  Cinedigm, based in Morristown, New Jersey, closed unchanged
at $1.48 in New York. The stock has gained 5.7 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  