-- Hearts Sale Plan Derailed as Lithuania Freezes Romanov’s Assets
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-04-12T11:05:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/hearts-sale-plan-derailed-as-lithuania-freezes-romanov-s-assets.html
Heart of Midlothian owner Vladimir Romanov’s assets were frozen by a Lithuanian court, derailing
any potential sale of the Scottish  soccer club .  The assets of Ukio Banko Investicine Grupe, or UBIG,
through which Romanov controls 79 percent of Hearts in
Edinburgh, were blocked yesterday in the course of a lawsuit
against the Russian-born investor and his sister, Olga Goncaruk,
Kaunas District Court said today on its website.  “Any sale or transfer” of UBIG’s shares in Hearts or its
other property “is forbidden,” Gintare Putnikiene, a
spokeswoman for the court in Kaunas said by phone today. Several
companies are suing Romanov and Goncaruk to recover “large
debts” the two jointly undertook, Putnikiene said.  Regulators in February closed  Ukio Bankas AB (UKB1L) , a Lithuanian
lender that Romanov controlled and used to finance international
sport, aluminum and real-estate projects. Foundation of Hearts,
an Edinburgh-based supporters group, said on April 9 it was
 negotiating  together with other fan associations to buy a
majority of Hearts shares from UBIG.  Besides UBIG assets, which include Hearts’s Tynecastle
stadium in the west of the Scottish capital, the court said it
also froze property belonging to Romanov and Goncaruk personally
and to Birac Europe AB, a company they jointly own.  The arrest order can be appealed within seven days,
according to the court’s statement.  Speaking by phone to LNK television last night, Romanov
said he wouldn’t comment on the court’s decision until he had
more information, according to a  report  on Vilnius-based LNK’s
website. Officials at UBIG couldn’t be immediately reached by
telephone at their office in Kaunas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  