-- ECB Unable to Exit Without Governments’ Help, Commerzbank Says
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-04-12T10:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/ecb-unable-to-exit-without-governments-help-commerzbank-says.html
The European Central Bank won’t be
able to unwind its expansive monetary policy without the support
of the region’s governments, said  Joerg Kraemer , chief economist
at Commerzbank AG.  “The ECB can’t exit without the help of finance ministers
because that would endanger the monetary union,” he said during
a press briefing in  Frankfurt  today. “We need a breakthrough in
reforms in the periphery and a top-up of the rescue fund. Only
then could the ECB retreat.”  Financial markets have calmed since ECB President Mario Draghi pledged in July to do whatever it takes to safeguard the
euro and later announced an unlimited bond-purchase program for
countries committed to reforms. Even inconclusive elections in
 Italy , which have left the region’s third-largest economy
without a government since February, and a bungled bailout in
Cyprus haven’t resulted in sustained market turbulence.  “Markets believe in the safety net of the ECB,” Kraemer
said. “We’ve received a lot of bad news in recent weeks but
markets digested them much better than last year. The sovereign
debt crisis is no longer perceived as a global threat.”  While “much speaks for Slovenia asking for help from the
European community,” the country “isn’t a second Cyprus,” he
said. Slovenia is may become the sixth euro-area country to
request international aid as a banking crisis strains the
budget, government bonds plunge and default risk soars.  Symbolic Step  ECB policy makers will “refrain from taking a symbolic
step” and keep  interest rates  at 0.75 percent at the next
meeting in May, Kraemer predicted. They “won’t cross the
Rubicon” and start buying assets to improve funding conditions
for small and medium-sized companies either, he said. “They’d
rather expand the collateral framework further.”  Economists have brought forward their forecasts for lower
interest rates after Draghi said last week that officials
“stand ready to act” to bolster a flagging economy. The median
estimate is still for no change in rates through the end of next
year, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “Hard data have disappointed in the first quarter and that
has an immediate impact on our annual forecasts,” Kraemer said.
“The outlook from the second quarter is broadly unchanged.”  Commerzbank lowered its economic projection for the euro
area to a 0.2 percent contraction from growth of 0.3 percent.
The German economy,  Europe ’s largest, is expected to grow 0.5
percent this year, less than the previous forecast of 1 percent,
Commerzbank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  