-- EDF, EON Contribute to $375 Million U.K. Home Efficiency Plan
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-04-12T11:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/edf-eon-contribute-to-375-million-u-k-home-efficiency-plan.html
EON SE,  SSE Plc (SSE)  and U.K. units of
 Electricite de France SA  and  RWE AG (RWE)  contributed to 244 million
pounds ($375 million) of finance to help pay for energy
efficiency upgrades in Britain’s 26.9 million homes.  The utilities were among 16 members of the Green Deal
Finance Company and other groups that provided 69 million pounds
in loans to the organization set up to finance home
improvements, the company said in a statement. The Department of
Energy and Climate Change supplied 25 million pounds of that sum
and committed 50 million pounds in further facilities.  The U.K. Green Investment Bank provided 125 million pounds
in senior debt, according to the statement. The Green Deal
Finance Company plans to boost the total to 300 million pounds,
using a loan from the  European Investment Bank  with negotiations
expected to finish in coming months, according to the statement
released yesterday.  The Green Deal is part of Britain’s efforts to shield
consumers from rising wholesale  gas prices  amid prolonged cold
weather while curbing emissions by reducing energy use. The
program aims to make the nation’s homes more efficient through
measures such as loft or wall insulation paid for by a charge
added to power bills. The goal is for the charge to be smaller
than the savings that result from the measures.  The funds, signed March 12, will help set up operations and
supply finance for providers of Green Deal measures at an
initial interest rate of 6.96 percent a year.  Department of Energy and Climate Change commitments
comprise a 20 million-pound junior capital facility, to be used
if demand for plans is reached prior to securing further
investment and a 30 million-pound contingent capital agreement,
to be used if non-repayment on plans reaches a certain level.  The Green Deal, started in January in  England  and Wales and
February in  Scotland , has booked 9,268 home assessments to date,
government data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 