-- Mubarak Retrial Postponed as Judge Withdraws
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-04-13T11:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/egypt-to-begin-new-mubarak-trial-on-protester-killing-charges.html
A Cairo judge recused himself from
the retrial of ousted President  Hosni Mubarak  on charges linked
to protesters’ deaths, referring the case to another court.  Judge Mostafa Hassan Abdullah’s withdrawal adds delay to a
trial that families of about 850 people killed during the
January 2011 uprising see as justice denied. Mubarak, 84, is
facing a retrial after his first conviction and life sentence
were overturned.  Unlike the first trial, Mubarak waved to his supporters
several times from inside a cage, and was seen laughing and
smiling with one of his two sons, both of whom were also with
him in the metal enclosure. As he was wheeled in, a supporter
yelled, “we love you,” and another shouted, “we’re sorry,
president,” and frantically waved at the former leader.  “If I had any suspicions he committed the massacres he’s
accused of, I wouldn’t have been here,” Abeer Hosni, 40, said
in an interview from inside the courtroom. “But I’m certain
he’s innocent.”  Abdullah cited unease, without elaborating in court. The
judge’s comment means there are external factors that may be
seen as affecting his ability to fairly review the case, Ahmed
Atia Abo-Shosha, a prosecutor with the Court of Cassation,
 Egypt ’s highest appeals court, said in a phone interview.  Execution Demand  In scenes reminiscent of his first trial, Mubarak was
wheeled into the defendant’s cage on a stretcher, after arriving
by helicopter at the police academy where the hearing was held.  After the judge read his decision, the court erupted into
rival chants, with Mubarak’s opponents clapping and yelling,
“the people want the execution of the ousted” president, and
his supporters responding with: “Down, down with the rule of
the murshid,” in a reference to the Muslim Brotherhood’s top
leader.  The trial opened as Mubarak’s successor, Islamist President
Mohamed Mursi, faces mounting and frequently violent protests.
Mursi’s opponents say he has advanced the interests of the
Brotherhood, which fielded him for office, while failing to
pursue the goals of the revolution against Mubarak, including
improving  living standards , expanding political freedom and
bolstering the independence of the judiciary.  Mubarak had been held initially at a prison hospital ward,
before being moved to the nearby military hospital amid reports
of his failing health.  “Transitional justice has not been served,” Ashraf el-
Sherif, a political science lecturer at the American University
in Cairo, said by phone. “Dismantling the institutions of the
former regime has not happened and the hope for a new justice
system has not been realized. All of this cements the belief
that many people hold that the revolution has gradually boiled
down to nothing.”  Homemade Nooses  With Mubarak in the cage was his long-time interior
minister, Habib el-Adli, whose life sentence was also
overturned, and six other top security officials who had been
acquitted in the first trial.  Mubarak supporters outside the fortified police academy
hoisting banners reading, “Mubarak has stepped down, and
security and peace disappeared,” a reference to increased
lawlessness.  Some families of the victims carried homemade nooses.
Police formed a human barrier to keep the two camps apart.  Mubarak and el-Adli’s sentencing, which was overturned in
January, failed to appease activists in the 18-day uprising,
especially after the acquittal of six security officials. Their
acquittals were read as opening the door for Mubarak to appeal
his sentence.  Courtroom Fistfights  Prosecution of the former president has been a key demand
of protesters, who say Mursi must follow through on promises to
hold the old regime accountable.  The first Mubarak trial, in which he was charged with
complicity in the killing of protesters, opened in August 2011
and was frequently chaotic, with fistfights erupting in the
makeshift courtroom. The court sentenced him in June last year
for failing to prevent the killings, in a verdict that triggered
protests.  Lawyers representing the victims and their families in that
trial criticized the prosecution evidence as weak and hastily
assembled.  “If the new trial is based on the same incomplete evidence
presented before, the result will not be good and an acquittal
will be more likely than a conviction,” Hoda Nasrallah, a
lawyer, said by phone. “This is a case in which the police are
both the accused and the party that is supposed to be collecting
evidence against itself. It is not right.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  