-- Telus Said to Be in Talks to Buy Competitor Mobilicity
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-04-12T20:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/telus-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-competitor-mobilicity.html
Telus Corp. (T) , Canada’s third-largest
wireless carrier, is in talks to buy Mobilicity, one of four
companies that sought to challenge the country’s incumbents
under government moves to boost competition, according to a
person with direct knowledge of the deal.  The two firms are working on a letter-of-intent that is
unsigned, said the person, who asked not to be identified as the
talks are confidential. A deal would value Mobilicity at C$350
million ($345 million) to C$400 million, the person said.  Telus is looking to bulk up against  BCE Inc. (BCE)  and  Rogers
Communications Inc. (RCI/B) , which have opted to increase business by
acquiring sports and other media companies to offer fresh
content to subscribers. Vancouver-based Telus has avoided
acquisitions and instead tapped the faster-growing economy of
western Canada to add subscribers faster than its competitors.  Telus spokesman  Shawn Hall  declined to comment, as did
Sheryl Steinberg, a spokeswoman for Toronto-based Mobilicity. As
a private company, Mobilicity doesn’t disclose subscriber
numbers, she said. Earlier today, the Globe and Mail reported on
the Telus-Mobilicity talks.  Mobilicity, Public Mobile and Wind Mobile,  Quebecor Inc. (QBR/B) ’s
Videotron unit, all bought wireless spectrum in a 2008 auction
for new networks in a government-backed plan to spur greater
competition in Canada. Bell, Telus and Rogers combined still
control 90 percent of the Canadian wireless market. Mobilicity
has been competing with Telus and the others for almost three
years.  ‘Considered Accordingly’  “Any transaction that requires regulatory approval will be
considered accordingly,” said Alexandra Fortier, a spokeswoman
for Industry Minister Christian Paradis.  “We cannot comment on
speculation.”  Public Mobile has hired a bank to explore a sale, according
to the Globe and Mail. Lisa Papas, a spokeswoman for Public
Mobile, declined to comment.  Wind Mobile has been put up for sale by its prospective new
owners  Vimpelcom Ltd. (VIP) , a different person familiar with that
process has said. The sale has been complicated because the
transfer of shares owned by Wind Mobile founder  Anthony Lacavera 
to Amsterdam-based Vimpelcom has yet to be approved by the
Canadian government.  While Wind and Mobilicity could be expected to attract the
interest of Canadian incumbents because of the valuable airwaves
waves they own, current rules prohibit a transfer of ownership
of spectrum before 2014.  “ Industry Canada  is consulting Canadians on the conditions
of spectrum license transfer requests, with comments due by May
3, 2013,” Fortier said. “Our government intends to finalize
the approach shortly thereafter.”  Rogers agreed in January to pay about C$300 million for
spectrum that  Shaw Communications Inc. (SJR/B)  purchased in 2008 and
never used after it shelved plans to start a mobile-phone
service. That deal has yet to be approved by Canadian
regulators.  Telus rose 0.8 percent to C$70.20 at the close in Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  