-- Emerging Stocks Pare Weekly Advance as Infosys Plunges
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-04-12T21:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/emerging-stocks-snap-three-day-gain-on-earnings-infosys-plunges.html
Developing-nation stocks slid for
the first time in four days, led by  India , as commodities
declined on concern the global outlook is deteriorating and
 Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  forecast lower-than-estimated sales.  Infosys, India’s second-largest software services exporter,
dropped the most in a decade in Mumbai and  New York  after saying
revenue will expand at a rate around 50 percent below the pace
projected by analysts. The S&P BSE India Index sank the most
since February. Technology stocks led declines on the  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)   Brazil ’s Bovespa index pared a slump of
as much as 1.7 percent as Vale SA rallied.  The gauge of developing-country stocks dropped 0.9 percent
to 1,019.61 in New York, trimming a weekly advance to 1.1
percent. The S&P GSCI Spot Index of commodities retreated 1.3
percent after the  International Energy Agency  cut its estimates
for global oil demand. Crude sank 2.4 percent in New York as
U.S. retail sales unexpectedly fell in March by the most in nine
months and a gauge of consumer sentiment slipped.  “Globally, there are too many ifs and buts and there’s
hardly anything that seems certain,” Neelakantan Sethuram Iyer,
chief investment officer at Daiwa Asset Management India Pvt.,
said from Mumbai. “There could be some hiccups in earnings.”  Nine out of 10 groups in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index
fell as technology shares dropped 2 percent. The emerging-
markets gauge slipped 3.4 percent this year, trailing an 8.8
percent increase in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed-country
stocks. The emerging-markets measure trades at 10.6 times 12-
month projected profit, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple
of 14.1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund declined 1.5 percent to $41.88. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
surged 4 percent to 17.92.  Brazil’s Bovespa trimmed its loss to 0.8 percent after
Mines and Energy Minister Edison Lobao said the nation’s mining
companies probably will avoid a special participation tax. Vale
rallied 1.6 percent.  Mexican homebuilder Corp. Geo SAB plunged 8.8 percent to
the lowest level since July 2003 as the company said it will
seek to restructure its debt amid waning cash flows. The
benchmark IPC Index fell 0.9 percent in Mexico City.  The Micex Index slid 1.1 percent to the lowest level since
November. Russian growth is forecast to slow to 2.4 percent this
year on high  interest rates  and lower gas exports, Economy
Minister Andrei Belousov told reporters today. OAO  Mechel (MTLR) , a
coking coal and steel producer, tumbled 6.3 percent.  ‘Building Concern’  “Growth forecasts have come down,”  Alan Gayle , senior
strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management, said by phone from
Atlanta. His firm oversees about $48 billion. “Softer U.S.
consumer news and building concern in  North Korea  are weighing
on emerging markets.”  Indian stocks tumbled the most in more than a month, with
the benchmark index completing a second week of declines.
Infosys plunged 21 percent for the biggest loss in the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index.  Korea’s Kospi index fell 1.3 percent as foreign investors
sold equities on concern profit of builders and shipyards will
slump and North Korea tensions may increase.  GS Engineering &
Construction Corp. (006360) , which reported an unexpected loss this week,
tumbled by the daily limit for a second day.  The Shanghai Composite Index dropped 0.6 percent to the
lowest level since Dec. 27. The Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index slipped 0.5 percent. Gree Electric Appliances Inc. and
SAIC Motor Corp., the largest Chinese makers of air-conditioners
and autos, slumped. Sihuan Pharmaceutical Holdings Group Ltd.
jumped 6 percent in  Hong Kong .  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage points, to 284 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  