-- Lennar Continuing Project as China Talks Said Broken Off
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   D a n   L e v y
-- 2013-04-12T17:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/lennar-continuing-project-as-china-talks-said-broken-off.html
Lennar Corp. (LEN)  is proceeding with its
Hunters Point project in San Francisco even as talks with China
Development Bank Corp. for $1.7 billion in financing for the
site and the nearby Treasure Island have broken off.  “We are continuing to move forward with development of
Hunters Point Shipyard and are expecting to start home
construction this summer,” the Miami-based homebuilder said in
an e-mailed statement. “Lenders continue to have significant
interest in financing The Shipyard and Treasure Island, which
they believe are extremely attractive projects.”  Ten months have passed since Lennar signed a memorandum
with Beijing-based China Development Bank for a five-year loan
to develop the Hunters Point and Treasure Island sites, where
plans call for more than 18,000 homes, along with commercial
buildings, job-training centers, parks, trails and open space.
The loan talks haven’t progressed for more than a month, said
two people with direct knowledge of the matter, who asked not to
be identified because the discussions are private.  A U.S. tax law requiring foreign banks to report certain
information about their American assets or else pay a levy was a
sticking point that contributed to discussions breaking off,
according to a separate person.  Construction Contract  Another issue was a stipulation that Lennar must award
 China  Railway Construction Corp. a contract to build roads and
bridges for the project as a precondition for the loan. China
Railway Construction didn’t agree on a contract because it’s
concerned the payment being offered will result in it posting a
loss on the project, the two people said.  Kofi Bonner, the Lennar executive who is overseeing the
projects, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the
status of the discussions. The San Francisco Chronicle reported
yesterday that talks on the loan had collapsed.  Construction on the first homes at Hunters Point is
expected to begin in June, Emile Haddad, chief executive officer
of FivePoint Communities Inc., which is managing the the San
Francisco projects’ development for Lennar, said in a March 26
interview. Haddad declined to comment today when he was reached
by phone in China, where he is traveling on a trade mission with
California Governor Jerry Brown.  Redeveloping the former U.S. Navy bases would create two
new neighborhoods in a city strapped for housing. San Francisco
Bay area home prices jumped almost 25 percent in February from a
year earlier, research firm Dataquick reported last month.  Since the China talks began, pension funds have become more
willing to invest in housing developments, banks have been more
willing to lend and homebuilders have had an easier time raising
debt and equity as the housing market has recovered, said John Burns, chairman of  Irvine , California-based John Burns Real
Estate Consulting. Lennar may still face a challenge in finding
a deal for such a large development, he said.  “I’ve seen capital come back but not for projects like
that yet,” Burns said. “That’s a lot of money.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  