-- Hershey Should Supply Child-Labor Records, Academics Say
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-04-12T21:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/hershey-should-supply-child-labor-records-academics-say.html
Hershey Co. (HSY)  should turn over child-
labor records for cocoa farms in  Ghana  and the Ivory Coast as
part of an investor suit and to help define U.S. corporations’
legal obligations abroad, two law professors told the judge in a
lawsuit over the company’s practices.  A prospective “friend of the court” brief filed today in
Delaware Chancery Court is aimed at establishing accountability
in state corporate law, wrote  Harvard Law School ’s Nancy Gertner, a former federal judge, and  Boston College ’s  Kent
Greenfield , a corporate-governance scholar.  The case “is a perfect example of both the need for
companies to be mindful of their legal and ethical
responsibilities in a global economy,” and a need for the court
“to continue its efforts to delineate the responsibilities of
 Delaware  corporations to respect the rule of law wherever and
through whatever vehicle they do business,” they wrote.  The Louisiana Municipal Police Employees’ Retirement System
sued last year seeking books and records and claiming Hershey
put its reputation at risk by relying on cocoa farms in the west
African countries. Hershey acknowledged there is “rampant”
child labor in both countries, according to the complaint.  Activists have long pushed companies to fight child labor
in the cocoa industry. Common children’s tasks on cocoa farms
are filling plastic bags for nurseries, breaking up pods and
moving plants, according to the  Fair Labor Association .  Heavy Loads  Carrying heavy loads is one of the worst forms of child
labor, and using machetes and knives to break pods is hazardous,
said the association, a workers’ advocacy group, citing non-
government organizations in  Ivory Coast . About 89 percent of
Ivory Coast children were involved in growing cocoa, according
to a 2008 government survey.  “With evidence of the realities of chocolate production in
Western Africa, coupled with the dominant role of the Hershey
corporation in that market, the shareholders have certainly
presented sufficient information to satisfy the requirement of
showing a proper purpose” for inspecting records and a
“credible basis to believe that mismanagement or wrongdoing has
occurred,” according to the brief.  “The Hershey Company has a long history of supporting
children” and “we are committed to responsible sourcing and
have been supporting cocoa-growing communities for more than 50
years,” said Jeff Beckman, a Hershey spokesman, in an e-mailed
statement.  ‘Substantial Contributor’  He said Hershey is “a substantial contributor in
addressing the social and economic issues in cocoa-growing
communities.”  “The Delaware court matter will be addressed through the
appropriate legal processes,” he said.  The company has said it is working with the U.S. Labor
Department and the  United Nations ’ International Labor
Organization on the issues.  Once records are produced, the professors concluded, the
case will “provide an excellent juridical vehicle for the Court
of Chancery to clarify the obligations of Delaware corporations
acting globally.”  Delaware courts are “the nation’s most important judicial
monitor of multinational companies,” balancing legality with
fairness in an increasingly global milieu of which Chancellor
Leo Strine has been taking increased notice, Gertner and
Greenfield wrote.  The case is Louisiana Municipal Police Employees’
Retirement System v. Hershey Co., CA7996, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  