-- EU Calls on Hungary to Heed Concerns Rule of Law Concerns
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-04-12T15:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/eu-calls-on-hungary-to-heed-concerns-rule-of-law-concerns.html
The European Commission stepped up
pressure on Hungary over Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s
consolidation of power, calling on the government to heed its
warnings about the erosion of the rule of law in the nation.  “Based on a first legal analysis, the commission has
serious concerns over the compatibility” of the most recent
constitutional amendment with the 27-nation bloc’s laws and
values, the European Union executive said in a statement today.
Once the legal analysis is finalized, the commission said it
will take steps “where relevant” to start infringement
procedures against Hungary, which could lead to a court case.  Lawmakers last month backed a constitutional amendment to
curtail judicial authority, limit campaign ads in private media,
restrict the definition of a family to marriage and allow the
criminalization of homeless people who live on the streets, all
of which the  Constitutional Court  has vetoed in past decisions.
The move underscored concern for the rule of law and checks and
balances in Hungary, where Orban wields a two-thirds
parliamentary majority.  “I strongly appeal to you and to your government to
address these concerns and to tackle them in a determined and
unambiguous way,” European Commission President  Jose Barroso 
said in a letter to Orban, according to the commission
statement.  The showdown with the EU threatens to affect Hungary’s
finances after the foreign ministers of Germany, Denmark,
 Finland  and the Netherlands last month pushed to impose EU
 funding cuts  on member states that violate the bloc’s democratic
values.  Independent Institutions  Orban has asserted his influence over independent
institutions since winning elections in 2010, drawing criticism
from the EU, the U.S. and the  United Nations . His lawmakers
passed a new constitution over opposition protests, ousted the
chief justice of the  Supreme Court  and set up a media regulator
led by ruling-party appointees. Last month, Orban named  Gyorgy Matolcsy , his former Economy Minister, to head the central bank.  The European Commission’s concerns include “the clause on
 European Court  of Justice judgments entailing payment
obligations, the powers given to the President of the National
Office for the judiciary to transfer cases and, subject to a
more detailed analysis, the restrictions on the publication of
political advertisements,” according to today’s statement.  The Venice Commission, the Council of Europe’s advisory
body on constitutional matters, which is on a mission to
Budapest today, will prepare an opinion on the fourth amendment
in June, according to the statement. Barroso “expects that the
Hungarian authorities will take due account of this opinion and
address it in full accordance with both European Union and
Council of  Europe  principles, rules and values.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  