-- EU Clears German Roadblock to ECB Oversight With Treaty Talk Vow
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-04-12T20:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/eu-clears-german-roadblock-to-ecb-oversight-with-treaty-talk-vow.html
The European Union cleared a
roadblock toward equipping the European Central Bank with
oversight powers after finance ministers won German backing
after agreeing to weigh changes to the bloc’s rulebook.  Ministers meeting today in Dublin committed to “work
constructively” on any treaty alteration proposed by an EU
government, according to a declaration released after the
gathering. They agreed that the ECB bank oversight law should be
amended in the light of any such changes.  “We got the definitive accord of the ministers on the
first cornerstone of the banking union,” Michel Barnier, the
EU’s financial services commissioner, told reporters.  EU leaders called last year for the ECB to take on
oversight powers for euro-area lenders in a bid to untangle the
finances of  banks  and governments. The single supervisor for the
euro area is a precondition for banks to get direct aid from the
currency area’s firewall fund.  The adoption of the legislation snagged last month on
German requests for technical changes to the text and a
commitment to consider treaty changes.  The German concerns were that the bloc’s current rules
undermine attempts to separate ECB monetary policy-setting from
supervisory decisions, and that they make it harder to submit
the bank supervisor to democratic oversight.  Banking Union  Nations reached today’s deal after haggling over the
wording in the declaration on further work by the EU to build a
so-called banking union, with common financial backstops,
according to two EU officials, who didn’t want to be named
because the talks are private.  Germany sought to scale back the reference to the banking
union project in the declaration, compared with early drafts,
the officials said.  The final version of the text says that the EU will work
for the “urgent completion of all the agreed elements of
banking union.”  Barnier said yesterday that he plans to come forward in
June with a draft law to endow the euro area with a central
authority for dealing with failing banks, backed by a common
fund. Like the single supervisor, EU nations that don’t belong
to the euro area would be free to sign up if they wished.  While EU leaders last year called for a common resolution
authority, they have not yet given similar endorsement to the
idea of a common fund.  The EU has already adjusted its treaties as part of its
efforts to combat the financial crisis, agreeing targeted
changes to allow the setting up of the European Stability
Mechanism, a fiscal backstop for euro-area nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Dublin at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  