-- EU Should Move Fast on Joint Bank Resolution Plan, Vestager Says
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-04-12T15:45:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/eu-should-move-fast-on-joint-bank-resolution-plan-vestager-says.html
 Danish Economy Minister  Margrethe Vestager  said the European Union should press ahead with plans
for a joint mechanism to handle failing banks, rather than delay
it as  Germany  would like.  “We would like to pass it as quickly as possible,”
Vestager told reporters in Dublin today before a meeting of EU
finance chiefs. “We think it’s important to keep the momentum.
Of course we listen to the German problems, for obvious reasons,
but we hope that we can decide upon it as soon as possible.”  Central powers to handle failing banks are the second leg
of the EU’s banking union strategy, which EU leaders laid out
last year in an attempt to break the link between weak banks and
sovereign debt struggles. The project took on new urgency in the
aftermath of Cyprus bailout talks that culminated in forced
losses for unsecured depositors at that nation’s two largest
banks.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, plans in
June to unveil plans for a joint bank resolution agency and a
dedicated common fund. The European Commission hasn’t yet
decided where the new agency will be located, what legal form it
would take or how it will be funded. At the same time, EU
officials are committed to moving ahead even though some
nations, such as Germany, oppose pooled financial commitments.  Barnier called yesterday for a “common resolution fund”
for the euro area and other nations that sign up their banks for
ECB oversight. “Common financial backstops” are needed, he
said in a speech in Dublin. “From a European perspective, it
would make sense and be both more coherent and effective.”  ‘Moral Hazard’  The EU shouldn’t rush this matter, Swedish Finance Minister
 Anders Borg  told reporters in Dublin today. The plan needs to be
designed carefully so that it doesn’t create “moral hazard,”
he said.  Vestager said the EU can’t afford to get bogged down in
delays as it pursues banking union. For example, legislation to
establish a euro-area supervisor at the  European Central Bank 
has been held up by technical snags.  “We thought the common supervisor was a done deal and then
we bump into legal issues, but they need to be cleared as we
have to move on to discuss how to handle banks in distress,”
Vestager said. “We want clarity on what to expect.”  Denmark hasn’t decided whether it will join the joint
supervision regime. Vestager said Denmark might support pooled
backstops for banks in other nations under some circumstances.  Predictable Rulebook  “If it’s caused by someone failing to assume
responsibility elsewhere the answer is a resounding no, while we
would consider to do it if things are done in an orderly
fashion,” Vestager said.  European Commission data show the bloc’s governments have
injected 1.7 trillion euros into their banking systems since
2008 as the fates of nations depended on the survival of their
financial industries. Bank of Finland Deputy Governor Pentti Hakkarainen said the EU needs a more predictable crisis-
management rulebook after Cyprus’s bank creditor bail-in
confused investors.  “The better the mechanism is designed, the smaller the
bailout need becomes,” Hakkarainen said in an April 10
interview in Helsinki. “Adequate risk buffers and adequate
amounts of bail-in-able items. The financial crisis taught us
that that’s needed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Dublin at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Dublin at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  