-- Cyprus Aid Deal Seen Ready for Parliaments After Dublin Meeting
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-04-12T12:44:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/euro-area-finance-ministers-aim-to-agree-0n-cyprus-aid-package.html
Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said a 10 billion-euro ($13 billion) rescue for
Cyprus is now ready to be ratified by parliaments after euro-
region officials assessed the accord in Dublin today.  “The agreement is fully in line with the parameters and
key objectives set by the Eurogroup on March 25,” Dijsselbloem
told journalists after the meeting in the Irish capital. “We
consider that the necessary elements are now in place to launch
the relevant national parliamentary procedures required for the
formal approval.”  Dijsselbloem earlier dismissed questions of whether Cyprus
would require as much as 6 billion euros more than the aid
package agreed in Brussels last month. He said that the size of
the program won’t change and Cyprus will be able to fill other
funding gaps as it restructures its two largest banks.  “The program is going to be 10 billion, as agreed, and all
the other elements of the program will be financed either from
the bail-in of the banks or the privatization and other
elements,” Dijsselbloem told reporters as he arrived to chair
the meeting of finance ministers.  Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades said in Cyprus today
that he will write to EU President Herman Van Rompuy to seek
“further aid,” in line with his nation’s needs.  Cypriot government spokesman Christos Stylianides said
Anastasiades hasn’t requested more financial assistance and is
discussing the possibility of increasing European structural
funds. That followed comments from a separate government
official that the president will seek to increase the size of
the rescue package.  Crisis Bailouts  Cyprus is the fifth euro-zone country to tap international
aid in  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis, which has entangled the
finances of banks and nations in a mutually destructive spiral.
The rescue talks roiled markets as Cypriot lawmakers rejected an
initial plan that included a tax on insured bank deposits.  Anastasiades then agreed to a new accord on March 25, which
closed the doors of  Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl (CPB) , the second-largest
lender, and imposed losses on depositors with more than 100,000
euros.  The letters to EU authorities “will refer to the need for
a change in the EU’s policy stance toward Cyprus with extension
of further aid, in light of the critical moments we are going
through as a result of the economic crisis and the measures that
have been imposed on us,” Anastasiades told reporters in
Nicosia earlier today.  Bank of Finland Deputy Governor Pentti Hakkarainen said in
an interview on April 10 that Europe’s policy makers need to
come up with a more predictable crisis-management rulebook after
Cyprus’s bailout confused investors.  Joint Effort  Irish Finance Minister Michael Noonan said today that the
Cyprus program is “appropriate” for conditions there, and
involves smaller amounts of money than earlier rescues for
 Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland.  “The situation in Cyprus is pretty well resolved,” Noonan
said.  The Cypriot rescue is a joint effort of the International
Monetary Fund, the European Commission and the European Central
Bank, the so-called troika that has handled euro-area bailouts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Dublin at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Christie in Dublin at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  