-- European Stocks Post Largest Weekly Gain in a Month
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-04-12T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/european-stocks-post-largest-weekly-gain-in-a-month.html
European stocks  posted the biggest
weekly advance in more than a month amid speculation that
central banks will continue to provide monetary stimulus and as
a report showed Chinese imports beat forecasts.  A gauge of lenders climbed, with National Bank of Greece SA
rallying 24 percent and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  advancing 6.9 percent. Man
Group Plc, the world’s largest publicly traded hedge-fund
manager, surged the most in four years as regulators cut the
amount of capital it must hold. Volkswagen AG and Pirelli & C.
SpA slid more than 4 percent as auto-industry shares declined.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 1.8 percent to 292.39 this
week, even after dropping 0.9 percent yesterday as U.S. retail
sales and  consumer confidence  missed forecasts. The gauge had
fallen for three straight weeks, the longest stretch of losses
in more than 10 months. The benchmark measure has gained 4.5
percent this year as American lawmakers agreed on a compromise
budget and data on housing and jobs fueled optimism the world’s
biggest economy is recovering.  “The week was pretty mixed data-wise, but China saved the
world,” said Christian Zogg, who manages about $540 million as
head of equity and fixed income at LLB Asset Management AG in
Vaduz, Liechtenstein. “The poor figures out of Europe and the
U.S. at the end of last week suggested that the central banks
can run a loose monetary policy for a much longer time.
Financial shares got a pretty strong boost from that. Sentiment
isn’t exactly euphoric, but stocks offer the best yield on the
capital market.”  FTSE, DAX  National benchmark indexes rose in all of the 18 western
European markets this week, except Iceland. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX) 
added 2.2 percent, while France’s CAC 40 increased 1.8 percent
and Germany’s DAX gained 1.1 percent. Greece’s ASE Index surged
13 percent for the biggest jump in nine months and Portugal’s
PSI-20 jumped 5.1 percent, the most since September.  The European Central Bank will look for signs in economic
data that inflation may slow more than it anticipates and policy
will remain loose for “as long as needed,” according to its
monthly bulletin released on April 11  China’s  imports  rose by a better-than-forecast 14.1 percent
in March, while  export  growth slowed to 10 percent , the customs
administration said in Beijing. In Germany, exports fell more
than economists estimated in February as the euro area, the
country’s biggest trading partner, struggled to emerge from
recession.  In the U.S., initial jobless-benefit claims declined more
than expected, while retail sales dropped then most in nine
months and  consumer confidence  slid to a nine-month low.  Earnings Season  Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum producer,
unofficially kicked off the American  earnings season  by posting
first-quarter profit excluding some items of 11 cents a share.
That beat the 9 cent-average analyst estimate.  National Bank of Greece surged 24 percent and  Eurobank
Ergasias SA (EUROB)  more than doubled. The lenders’ planned merger has
been postponed and not canceled, Bank of Greece Governor George
Provopoulos said, after statements on April 8 that they will be
recapitalized separately.  Barclays, Britain’s second-biggest bank, and Banco Espirito
Santo SA, Portugal’s largest bank by market value, rose 6.9
percent and 9.5 percent, respectively, as European banking
shares posted their biggest advance in three months.  Man Group soared 20 percent, the most since March 2009.
Under a new regulatory status approved by the U.K.’s Financial
Conduct Authority, Man has become a limited license group
instead of a full-scale group, the London-based firm said. The
change may boost capital to as much as $920 million from $370
million by January, it said.  Ashmore, Volkswagen  Ashmore Group Plc jumped 18 percent, the biggest rally in
almost four years, as the assets it oversees increased. The U.K.
fund manager that invests in  emerging markets  reported net
inflows of $7.3 billion in the quarter that ended March 31.
Assets increased by 9.4 percent to $77.7 billion.  A gauge of carmakers was the  only group  among 19 in the
Stoxx 600 that posted a decline this week. Volkswagen dropped
4.3 percent as Europe’s biggest automaker said global sales
growth slowed in March.  Pirelli, the region’s third-largest tiremaker, slumped 11
percent and Continental AG lost 3 percent.  Spirent Communications Plc (SPT)  fell 10 percent to a 14-month
low. UBS AG downgraded the U.K. maker of telecommunications
testing systems to neutral from buy, citing a slower-than-
expected recovery after Seattle-based peer F5 Networks Inc. cut
its revenue forecasts last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  