-- European Stocks Drop as U.S. Retail Sales Fall
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-04-12T16:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/european-stock-index-futures-fall-before-u-s-data.html
European stocks  fell the most in a
week, snapping the longest streak of gains in three months, as
U.S. retail sales and  consumer confidence  unexpectedly dropped.  Cap Gemini SA (CAP)  declined the most in five months as Indian
peer Infosys Ltd. forecast annual sales that were lower than
analysts’ estimates.  Croda International Plc (CRDA)  slid 3.9 percent
after UBS AG downgraded its recommendation on the stock.
Volkswagen AG slipped the most in seven weeks after saying
global-sales growth slowed in March.  The  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  lost 0.9 percent to 292.39 at the close of
trading, paring its weekly gain to 1.8 percent. The gauge
rallied for the past four days as  China ’s imports increased more
than estimated and U.S. jobless claims fell. The Stoxx 600 has
jumped 4.5 percent so far this year.  “The March soft patch is an early warning sign of a weak
Q2 to come,” Witold Bahrke, who helps oversee $55 billion as
senior strategist at PFA Pension A/S in Copenhagen, said about
U.S. retail sales. “On the positive side, there is a wall of
money from central banks, which is getting bigger and bigger,
but on the negative side, risk sentiment has to cope with a
weaker U.S. macro picture and increased political and fiscal
risks in the  euro zone .”  Volatility in euro-area stocks, estimated by options
prices, rose for the first time this week as the  VStoxx Index (V2X) 
gained 7.3 percent.  National benchmark indexes declined in all of the 18
western European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index slid 0.5
percent, while France’s CAC 40 Index dropped 1.2 percent and
 Germany ’s DAX Index lost 1.6 percent.  American Economy  U.S.  retail sales  unexpectedly fell in March, a report
showed. The 0.4 percent decrease, the biggest since June,
followed a 1 percent gain in February, according to Commerce
Department figures in  Washington . The median forecast of 85
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an unchanged reading
in March.  Separate data showed the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary  sentiment index  for April slipped to 72.3
from 78.6 in March. Economists in a Bloomberg survey had
predicted no change for this month’s reading.  In Cyprus, President Nicos Anastasiades said he will write
to European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  to seek “further
aid.” This means he will seek an increase in the size of the
rescue package above 10 billion euros ($13 billion), a
government official said.  Germany said extra aid is not on the agenda for rescuing
the island nation.  Separately, euro-area finance ministers met in Dublin where
they reviewed support to Cyprus. Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen
Dijsselbloem said the size of the program won’t change and
Cyprus will be able to fill other funding gaps as it
restructures its two largest banks.  Industrial Production  Figures released today showed euro-area  industrial
production  in February expanded more than economists. Output in
the 17-nation economy rose 0.4 percent from January, when it
dropped a 0.6 percent, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said. That beat the 0.2 percent increase projected by
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Cap Gemini , France’s biggest computer-services company,
retreated 4.1 percent to 34.25 euros, the biggest decline since
November. Software AG fell 2.6 percent to 27.51 euros.  Infosys Ltd.,  India ’s second-largest software-services
exporter, said it expects revenue to increase 6 percent to 10
percent in the year ending March 2014. Analysts estimated sales
growth of 12.7 percent, based on the average of 66 predictions
compiled by Bloomberg.  Croda, Rentokil  Croda, the world’s second-biggest maker of cosmetic
ingredients, slid 3.9 percent to 2,608 pence. UBS downgraded the
shares to sell from neutral, saying the company has failed to
deliver consistent earnings growth.  Volkswagen,  Europe ’s biggest carmaker, fell 3.3 percent to
147.80 euros, the most since Feb. 22, after saying deliveries
rose 0.2 percent last month as demand in China and  North America 
was offset by shrinking sales across Europe.  “The data for March clearly show that the markets are
becoming even more difficult,” Christian Klinger, Volkswagen’s
sales chief, said in a statement.  A gauge of automotive-industry stocks was the  worst
performer  among the 19 groups on the Stoxx 600. Porsche SE lost
1.9 percent to 56.55 euros and Continental AG dropped 3.2
percent to 87.82 euros.  Rentokil Initial Plc (RTO) , the largest pest-control company,
lost 2.5 percent to 97.9 pence. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut the
shares to neutral from buy and reduced its price estimate by 14
percent to 111 pence. Goldman said it expects the company’s net
debt to rise because of acquisitions and capital expenditure.  K+S AG, Europe’s biggest potash maker, fell 3.9 percent to
34.28 euros. Deutsche Bank AG downgraded the stock to sell from
hold, citing continued pressure on potash prices.  Mediaset SpA tumbled 4.9 percent to 1.70 euros. The
broadcaster controlled by former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio
Berlusconi  denied reports it plans to sell Mediaset Premium, its
pay-TV business.  Rio Stoppage  Rio Tinto  dropped 1.9 percent to 3,080.5 pence. The second-
largest mining company suspended operations at Bingham Canyon
copper mine in  Utah  after a wall slide late on April 10. Rio
said the slide occurred along a geotechnical fault line.  National Bank of Greece SA led lenders lower, declining 6.5
percent to 64.5 euro cents.  JCDecaux SA (DEC) , the world’s largest outdoor advertising
company, jumped 2.2 percent to 20.76 euros, the biggest gain
since Jan. 17. The stock was upgraded to outperform from
underperform at Exane BNP Paribas, which said it expects the
company’s revenue growth to accelerate.  Telecom Italia SpA, which received approval from its board
to pursue a possible merger with Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.’s
Italian business, gained 3.8 percent to 63.55 euro cents.
Italy’s biggest phone company said Hutchison would want control
of the combined entity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  