-- Levin Calls China ‘Real Disappointment’ on North Korea
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-04-13T04:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/levin-calls-china-real-disappointment-on-north-korea.html
Senate Armed Services Committee
Chairman Carl Levin said the Chinese aren’t “doing what they
can do and should do” to stop North Korea’s nuclear weapons
program.  “They are the key to the solution to the problem, and they
are a real disappointment,” Levin, a Michigan Democrat,  said
in an interview for Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital
with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  China has been unwilling to work more closely with the U.S.
to put pressure on North Korea, which it borders, even though
the two economic powers share security concerns about the Korean
peninsula, Levin said.  “They don’t want North Korea to have a nuclear weapon,”
Levin said. “They don’t want North Korea probably to collapse,
because of the immigration problem” that would cause China.  North Korea is unlikely to fire a nuclear-armed missile,
even if it has the capability, because “that would lead to
their own destruction, and they only care about their own
survival,” he also said.  A finding by the Defense Intelligence Agency that was
disclosed April 11 said the office has “moderate confidence”
that North Korea now has some nuclear weapons that are small
enough to be delivered on ballistic missiles. The reliability of
those missiles “will be low,” the agency said.  The Pentagon distanced itself from the report, issuing a
statement saying, “It would be inaccurate to suggest that the
North Korean regime has fully tested, developed, or demonstrated
the kinds of nuclear capabilities referenced in the passage.”  Minority View  Levin, 78, said the classified report represents “the
minority view in the intelligence community. It’s not the
majority view.”  If North Korea fires a missile, “We can defend against it,
we can shoot it down,” he said. “If it had a nuclear warhead
on it and we shot it down, we would then act against North Korea
just for trying.”  Secretary of State John Kerry, on a visit to Asia this
weekend, said he will attempt to persuade Chinese President Xi Jinping to “put some teeth” into efforts to restrain North
Korea.  “China has an enormous ability to help make a difference
here, and I hope that in our conversations, when I get there
tomorrow, we’ll be able to lay out a path ahead that can defuse
this tension,” Kerry told a Seoul news conference yesterday.  Levin, in his interview, dismissed calls by some in South
Korea for the country to develop its own nuclear arsenal,
saying, “We don’t want to have a nuclear peninsula. We want to
stop North Korea from doing what they’re doing.”  Armed Drones  Levin also said the Obama administration hasn’t supplied
all the material justifying the legal authority and policy
guidance to use armed drones to strike suspected terrorists
overseas.  “I’ve asked for it, but I don’t think we’ll succeed in any
further demands, and I don’t think a court would sustain it,”
he said. “They’d say it’s a political issue.”  The administration’s use of unmanned strike aircraft has
become a political flashpoint on Capitol Hill, and the issue
briefly held up the confirmation last month of John Brennan to
be CIA director.  Levin offered a qualified endorsement of President  Barack Obama ’s 2014 budget, which proposes cuts in entitlements such as
Social Security and Medicare along with some tax increases.  ‘Ideological Rigidity’  “The key for me is whether or not the Republicans will end
their ideological rigidity on the question of revenues,” he
said.  Levin, who has sought to close tax loopholes on
corporations earning revenue overseas, also said, “A huge chunk
of revenues could come from simply closing the loopholes, which,
frankly, shouldn’t exist even if we had no deficit.”  The automatic budget cuts known as sequestration have begun
“pinching our military readiness,” Levin said, citing a
reduction in flying hours for pilots among the cutbacks.  “It’s been surprising to me,” he said, that “my
Republican colleagues have basically gone along with
sequestration, even though it has had that negative impact.”  He said Republicans have been unwilling to avoid
sequestration by supporting more targeted spending cuts and
additional revenue.  “They will not budge on the additional revenues,” he
said.  Levin, a former Detroit City Council member first elected
to the Senate in 1978, announced earlier this year he wouldn’t
seek re-election in 2014. His brother, Michigan Democrat Sander Levin, 81, has served in the House since 1983.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  