-- Levin Panel Plans to Refer JPMorgan Whale Loss to Justice, SEC
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-04-12T17:50:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/levin-panel-plans-to-refer-jpmorgan-whale-loss-to-justice-sec.html
U.S. Senator Carl Levin said he
plans to forward results from his panel’s nine-month
investigation into  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s record trading loss to
the Justice Department and Securities and Exchange Commission to
review for possible wrongdoing by company executives.  “When you say criminal referrals, there will be referrals
to the Justice Department and to the regulators, the Securities
and Exchange Commission,” Levin, chairman of the Senate
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, said today in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital With  Al Hunt .” “We’ve laid out hundreds of pages of what I consider to
be wrongful practices.”  The committee said last month that New York-based JPMorgan,
led by Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon, dodged regulators
and misled investors as losses swelled on a derivatives bet by a
trader known as the London Whale because of the size of his
bets. Managers at JPMorgan, the largest U.S. bank, manipulated
risk models and pressured traders to overvalue their positions 
in an effort to hide growing losses, according to the 
committee’s report.  Levin, a Democrat from  Michigan , said referrals to the
Justice Department and the SEC are “fairly routine” following
a review by his panel and, if staff hasn’t already sent their
report to investigators, they should.  While he wouldn’t say whether he believed there was
criminal activity at JPMorgan, Levin said, “I’m very
disappointed, though, that there has not been action taken
criminally against some of the higher-ups” on Wall Street,
declining to name individual companies or executives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  