-- Ex-German President Wulff Charged Over Oktoberfest-Bill
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-04-12T14:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/ex-german-president-wulff-charged-over-oktoberfest-bill.html
Former German President  Christian Wulff  was charged with accepting bribes from a film producer
who sought his influence in 2008 to get  Siemens AG (SIE)  to support
distribution of a movie.  David Groenewold, the film producer, who was also charged,
paid 719.40 euros ($939) for Wulff’s hotel and child care during
the Munich Oktoberfest in 2008, Hanover prosecutors said in an
e-mailed statement today. The businessman also spent 3,209 euros
for a dinner with Wulff and other people.  “It seems sufficiently likely that this happened with the
intent to motivate Wulff to solicit support from Siemens for
distribution of the movie ‘John Rabe’,” prosecutors said. “One
day after the Oktoberfest visit, Groenewold asked Wulff to
contact the Siemens Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher .”  Wulff, an ally of Chancellor  Angela Merkel , resigned when
prosecutors opened the probe in February 2012. He became the
second man to resign from the largely ceremonial post in less
than two years after  Horst Koehler  stepped down due to comments
he made about the country’s military mission in Afghanistan.  Wulff, who was prime minister of the German state of Lower
Saxony from 2003 to 2010, in December 2008 wrote a letter to
Loescher asking him to support Groenewold’s film project,
prosecutors said. He became German president in July 2010 after
being nominated by Merkel.  The former president rejects the allegations and “trusts
in the court’s independence, sovereignty and sense of
proportion,” his lawyers Bernd Muessig and Michael Nagel said
in a  statement  on their website. The Hanover Regional Court now
has to rule on whether Wulff must face a trial.  Wulff and Groenewold earlier this week both rejected an
offer by prosecutors to settle the charges.  Lawyers for Groenewold didn’t immediately reply to e-mails
seeking comment today. They have previously said their client
did nothing wrong.  Siemens’s spokesman Philippe Encz declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 