-- Mexican Constitutional Oil Change Achievable, PAN Senator Says
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-04-12T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/mexican-constitutional-oil-change-achievable-pan-senator-says.html
Mexico ’s  National Action Party 
supports a possible constitutional change to open the state-
controlled oil industry to more private investment and will work
with other parties to pass such legislation, according to the
PAN’s top senator on the energy commission.  The PAN, as the party is known, wants to allow private
companies to invest in oil and natural gas production and
development, an area the nation’s charter now limits to state-
owned  Petroleos Mexicanos , Salvador Vega said. The party would
stop short of allowing companies to own Mexico’s oil, as they
did before the late President  Lazaro Cardenas  nationalized them
in 1938, he said.  President Enrique Pena Nieto of the  Institutional
Revolutionary Party , who took office in December, has promised
an initiative this year to reverse eight years of production
declines at Pemex, the oil producer that funds one third of the
 federal budget . Working with the PRI, as Pena Nieto’s party is
known, and the Democratic Revolution Party, Vega said the PAN
can help achieve changes that it failed to win under President
 Felipe Calderon , Pena Nieto’s predecessor.  “We must leave no doubts for whoever seeks to invest in
Mexico that they have the legal and constitutional right to do
so,” Vega, who served as Calderon’s anti-corruption minister,
said in an interview in his Senate office yesterday. “It
wouldn’t be possible for someone to come and spend billions of
dollars without knowing that it’s legal.”  Support, Opposition  Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo, speaking at
Bloomberg’s Mexico Economic Summit on March 21, said the
overhaul the administration wants would require a constitutional
change. Jesus Zambrano, the head of the PRD, as Mexico’s third-
biggest party in Congress is known, says it seeks to modernize
Pemex while opposing any moves it sees as “privatization.”  Pena Nieto won the PRI’s support to ease Pemex’s oil
monopoly and support constitutional changes at the party’s
national assembly last month. The president has pledged to open
the oil industry to more competition and reduce Pemex’s tax
burden. His administration says such measures could boost
economic expansion, which has trailed  Latin America ’s for the
past decade, and increase gross domestic product by as much as 2
percentage points a year.  Changing the nation’s charter requires approval by two-
thirds of Congress and a majority of legislatures from 31
Mexican states and the capital. The PAN and PRI together control
more than two-thirds of the Senate and about two thirds of the
lower chamber. Adding support from the PRI-allied Green Party
creates a majority of more than 70 percent in both chambers.  Consensus Building  The federal government needs to work within the PRI and
with outside parties to build a consensus for an energy
overhaul, Vega said, adding that he doesn’t expect a unanimous
PRI vote for a constitutional change.  “I’m not that sure all of the PRD will be opposed,” he
said. “Having a clear and concrete proposal can help to resolve
things.”  The PRI weakened energy and tax overhauls under former
presidents Calderon and Vicente Fox, most recently thwarting a
2009 bid by Calderon to expand taxes to food and medicine. Both
Calderon and Fox were  PAN  members.  The PAN and PRI have worked together since Pena Nieto’s
election to approve a labor initiative giving employers more
flexibility in hiring and firing workers and an education bill
to improve standards and make teachers more accountable for
performance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  