-- Fekter Says France Doesn’t Intend to Blacklist Austria on Taxes
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-04-12T13:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/fekter-says-france-doesn-t-intend-to-blacklist-austria-on-taxes.html
Austria ’s Finance Minister Maria Fekter said her French counterpart told her today that Budget
Minister Bernard Cazeneuve didn’t intend to threaten
blacklisting the Alpine nation as non-cooperative in tax
matters.  “Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  approached me and made
it clear that his colleague, who has only been in his job for 15
days, didn’t really mean it when he spoke of putting Austria on
a black list,” Fekter told reporters in Dublin after a meeting
of euro region finance ministers.  Austria is under increased pressure after Luxembourg’s
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said April 10 that his
country will begin the automatic exchange of tax data in 2015.  Austrian banks risk a backlash unless the country
cooperates with a European Union initiative to fight  tax fraud 
by sharing account information with other bloc members,
Cazeneuve said in an interview on  France Info  radio. Austria
“risks being listed as a non-cooperative nation,” he said.  The discussion about bank secrecy in Austria takes place in
an election year. The conservative  People’s Party  opposes an
automatic exchange of all data, saying it wants to protect the
privacy of small depositors. The party, to which Fekter belongs,
has called for a legal review over whether information on
foreign account holders can be exchanged.  “I have asked the minister to enlighten his budget
minister that Austria meets OECD standards and therefore does
not and will not appear on any list,” Fekter said.
“Threatening sanctions between EU members is bad form.”  Austria and  France  have had a double taxation agreement for
years that meets information exchange requirements according to
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development standards,
Fekter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  