-- Finland Plans Alcohol-Ad Ban in Public Places to Shield Children
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-04-12T11:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/finland-plans-alcohol-ad-ban-in-public-places-to-shield-children.html
Finland  plans to tighten alcohol-
advertising laws after pushing cigarette sales under the counter
to protect children.  The government will ban alcohol ads in public places, such
as bus stops and billboards while continuing to allow
sponsorship of sports events and concerts, according to an e-
mailed statement from the Helsinki-based executive today.
Beverage commercials based on consumer participation, such as
games, competitions and lotteries, will become illegal.  The decision marks the latest step in Finland’s efforts to
protect children from exposure to addictive substances. Shops
have been banned from displaying tobacco products and brands
since 2012, forcing retailers to keep such goods under the
counter or behind cupboards with opaque doors. Cigarette vending
machines will become illegal in 2015.  “Banning outdoor advertisements and placing new
restrictions on digital ones was quite a surprise,” Elina Ussa,
managing director at the  Federation of Brewing and Soft Drinks
Industry , said by phone today. “This will have a significant
impact on the brewing industry’s possibility to launch new
products.”  Alcohol advertising is completely banned in  Norway , while
 France  restricts it to factual references such as strength,
origin, ingredients and methods of production. Finland decided
not to forbid advertisements intended to boost a brand or
relying on images to create a positive link between the product
and the impact from its consumption, even after the ban was
proposed in a draft law last year.  The proposal is an effort to reach a compromise between
views brought forward by the brewing industry and organizations
dedicated to ending alcohol abuse, the government said. It will
be sent to parliament this spring.  “We’ve made significant investments in self-regulation,
which could be a better way to solve these things,” Ussa said.
“It will be quite an effort to police digital media.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  