-- Flood Risks Rising in Canada Grain Belt as Snow, Cold Delay Thaw
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2013-04-12T05:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/flood-risks-rising-in-canada-grain-belt-as-snow-cold-delay-thaw.html
The risk of crop-damaging floods is
increasing in  Canada , the world’s second-largest wheat exporter,
as late-season snow and freezing weather delay spring planting
across the Prairie Provinces and into the northern U.S.  Most of southern Manitoba and Saskatchewan, which together
produced 61 percent of Canada’s wheat last year, got at least 15
percent more  precipitation  than normal in the past six months,
including twice as much in an area from Saskatoon to below the
North Dakota border, government data show. Manitoba classified
its flood risk April 10 as “moderate to major,” two days after
Saskatchewan predicted above-normal runoff.  While farmers in western Canada rely on melting snow to aid
crop growth, a late thaw can mix with spring rains to deliver
too much moisture in a short period, leaving soils saturated.
Snowpack last month along the Saskatchewan and  North Dakota 
portions of the Souris River, which feeds the Red River Valley,
was as much as twice the average, Manitoba said this week. The
government was anticipating normal weather on March 18 when it
predicted a record-large wheat harvest in 2013.  “We normally plant in April, but now we’re a month
behind,” Will Bergmann, 30, said by telephone from Glenlea,
Manitoba, where he grows wheat, canola, oats and corn less than
half a mile from the Red River. As of yesterday, there was still
a foot (30 centimeters) of snow on his fields. “It’s a waiting
game now to see if the river overflows from the excess ice, if
more snow falls, and how fast the snow melts.”  Thick Ice  The cold spell has left major rivers and tributaries in
Manitoba, which accounted for 14 percent of Canada’s wheat crop
last year, with a thick ice cover and below-normal flows this
month, the province’s Hydrologic Forecast  Centre  said in its
April 10 report. The melt may not begin until April 17,
increasing the chance of aggravated overland flooding and
tributary flows, it said.  In Saskatchewan, the top Canadian wheat grower at 47
percent of total output, the  government  said April 8 that the
highest flood risk was from Moose Jaw east to Indian Head and
then south to Weyburn, and from Saskatoon to North Battleford.
During the past six months, the area from Moose Jaw to Regina
had as much as 120 millimeters (4.7 inches) more precipitation
than normal, or twice the average, according to data from
Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, a government agency.  “With the increased snow cover and late melt, I urge all
people and communities to look at the forecast and prepare for
flooding,” Ken Cheveldayoff, the province’s minister
responsible for the Water Security Agency, said in a statement.  Less Growth  Snow depths with the equivalent of as much as 7 inches of
moisture may delay spring planting from  Minnesota  to Canada this
year, Mike Tannura, a meteorologist and owner of T-Storm Weather
LLC, said by telephone from  Chicago . With the snow lingering,
Canadian farmers may have a shorter time for optimal early
planting, raising the risk of crop damage later in the season,
he said.  “If you plant it too late, you can get hit by heat at the
wrong time of year, or you can get hit by a cold wave early in
the season,” Tannura said. “The earlier you plant, the less
probable those things are.”  While wheat futures on the Chicago Board of Trade are up
6.6 percent from a nine-month low on April 1, closing yesterday
at $7.0325 a bushel, prices still are down 25 percent from last
year’s closing peak in July. The grain may start to rally if
farmers aren’t planting by mid-June, Manitoba’s cut-off to
qualify for full crop insurance, said Jerry Klassen, a manager
at GAP SA Grains & Products in Winnipeg.  Crop Outlook  The Canadian  government  on March 19 predicted a record
harvest of 28.4 million metric tons, up from 27.205 million a
year earlier, mostly because farmers were expected to boost
plantings by 5.8 percent.  The forecast was based on “very limited weather-related
information,” Fred Oleson, the chief of the grain- and
oilseeds-market analysis group of Agriculture Canada, wrote in
an April 5 e-mail. “In Western Canada, the large amount of snow
we have had this winter and the late spring melt has created a
lot of uncertainty regarding seeding.”  The government won’t revise its estimates on 2013 seeding
until  Statistics Canada  releases its survey results of farmers’
planting intentions on April 24, Oleson said.  U.S. Output  Excessive snow and cold weather is increasing the chance of
planting delays in some U.S. states bordering Canada, according
to DTN.  Spring-wheat crops may be sown later in North Dakota,
 Montana  and Minnesota, where snow was as heavy as many parts of
Manitoba, said DTN’s  Bryce Anderson , who correctly predicted in
January that drought in parts of the U.S. will persist through
spring. The three states are the largest spring-wheat growers,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Farmers in North Dakota are forecast to plant 6.2 million
acres of spring wheat this season, with 2.9 million acres in
Montana and 1.35 million in Minnesota, the USDA said. Ice on the
upper  Mississippi River  in Minnesota already has delayed the
start of barge traffic until April 8, three weeks late, the USDA
said yesterday in a  report . The U.S. is the world’s largest
wheat exporter.  As recently as 2011, flooding in Manitoba was so extensive
that farmer Bergmann was able to  kite surf  across his fields,
which were covered with 5 feet of water. In 1997, during a flood
that forced 28,000 to evacuate the province, Bergmann said 99
percent of his land was underwater.  “We’re right along the Red River, so we would be the first
farm to experience a flood,” he said. “Anything can happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in  New York  at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  