-- From ‘Mad Men’ to a Mad Congress
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2013-04-12T13:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/from-mad-men-to-a-mad-congress.html
The season premiere of “Mad Men”
ended with  Don Draper  staring at the front page of the  New York 
Times from Jan. 1, 1968. “World Bids Adieu to a Violent Year,”
reads the headline. (The Times story, by Murray Schumach, is
real; you can read it  here .)  As in “Mad Men,” a sense of dread pervades the Times
story. “Nations said farewell to a year of violence, tension,
and economic uncertainty,” it informs readers, who will soon
discover that the new year brings even more lurid violence than
the one just past. The accompanying photograph shows two  New
Yorkers , backs to the camera, umbrellas open against a storm,
walking through a deserted  Central Park . It’s bleak.  That was America, 1968. By comparison, the America of 2013
is downright quiescent. “No one is burning down cities,” says
author Rick Perlstein, whose “ Nixonland : The Rise of a
President and the Fracturing of America” is a history of
political convulsions. “The national guard isn’t shooting
anyone. You don’t have thousands of people on college campuses
pledging themselves to sedition against the  United States . You
don’t have civil rights activists being murdered or churches
being bombed. You don’t have draft resistance. You don’t have a
string of political assassinations. In that sense, what’s
happening now doesn’t compare to the 1960s.”  In fact, the 1960s marked a low point of congressional
polarization; as the country was coming apart,  Washington  was
working overtime to pull it together. When Beltway graybeards
long for the comity of the “Mad Men” era, they are recalling a
political system in which polarization flowed into Washington,
was more or less homogenized by the establishment, and then
flowed back out as consensus. What we have today might be called
the “Mad Congress” era: Relative calm flows into the capital,
angry polarization flows out.  Polarization Today  The volatility of the 1960s is worth keeping in mind as we
consider polarization today. America in 2013 is not more divided
than it has ever been -- just the parties are. That’s a very
different, and preferable, problem.  Sean Theriault, a political scientist at the  University of
Texas  who specializes in party polarization, has run the numbers
comparing the 90th Congress, in 1967-1969, with the 112th
Congress, in 2011-2013. The percentage of party-based votes has
increased dramatically. “The Senate was 27.2 percent as
polarized as it could have been in the 90th Congress,” he told
me. “In the 112th, it was 42.1, an increase of 55 percent. The
House was 24.2 percent as polarized as it could have been in the
90th Congress. In the 112th, it was 54.8 -- an increase of 126
percent!”  In both the House and Senate, says Theriault, the author of
“ The Gingrich Senators : The Roots of Partisan Warfare in
Congress,” the  Republican Party  has moved much further right
than the  Democratic Party  has moved left, a conclusion endorsed
by other political scientists. In the Senate, “Republicans were
responsible for 78 percent of the polarization,” he said. While
in the House, “the Republicans were responsible for 76 percent
of the polarization.”  These numbers explode many of the easy assumptions of
contemporary political punditry. For one thing, the political
unity of yesteryear largely relied on a combination of extremist
views and poorly functioning parties. Congress wasn’t very
polarized partly because the Democratic Party was populated by
conservative Southern racists who used their powerful committee
chairmanships, accrued through seniority, to block civil-rights
and other liberal legislation.  “The country was very divided in 1968 over civil rights
and race relations and the  Vietnam War  as well as the emerging
youth culture,” says Alan Abramowitz, a political scientist at
 Emory University  in Atlanta. “But it wasn’t nearly as divided
along party lines. You had pro-war and anti-war, pro-civil
rights and anti-civil rights, and social liberal and
conservative factions in both parties.”  Buttressing Segregation  Polarization is not a synonym for extremism: Moderate
parties can be highly polarized while extreme opinions can find
support on both sides of the aisle. In the era when Washington
was less polarized, political consensus rested on a foundation
of bigotry that most would find abhorrent today. It’s
frustrating to watch the two parties bicker endlessly over
raising taxes, but it’s far better than watching them agree on
buttressing segregation.  The interesting question is whether the polarized country
of the “Mad Men” era helped produce the polarized Congress of
today. “These issues -- especially civil rights and some others
that were the progeny of the civil-rights movement, like
feminist issues -- contributed to the realignment of the parties
that led to the high polarization we have now,” says Barbara
Sinclair, a political scientist at the  University of California ,
 Los Angeles , and the author of “Party Wars: Polarization and
the Politics of National Policy Making.”  Sarah Binder , a professor of political science at George
Washington University, makes the connection more vividly. The
two eras are not so much apples and oranges, she says, as
“perhaps unripe versus ripened pear.”  Commentators who hope against hope that the two parties
will somehow “work together,” or that the president will fix
everything by choosing “to lead,” need to keep Binder’s
orchard in mind: Pears don’t unripen. The 1960s should be seen
as an anomalous period, not only for the fissures in the country
but for the unity in Washington. It’s abnormal for political
parties to be at once so heterogeneous and indistinct from one
another.  The great political sorting that moved Dixiecrat Senator
 Strom Thurmond  from the Democratic Party to the Republican
Party, and brought much of the white South with him, is well
documented. But to believe that such party polarization will
soon reverse itself, you would have to believe that Southern
conservatives will return to the Democratic Party or that
liberals will begin winning Republican primaries. That simply
won’t happen.  We like to say that hindsight is 20/20. But nostalgia
isn’t. Remember that next time you hear some white-haired
politician yearning for the Washington of his youth.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net  