-- Furusawa Says Japan Will Win Over G-20 Currency Skeptics
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p ,   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 2013-04-12T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/furusawa-says-japan-will-win-over-g-20-currency-skeptics.html
Japan ’s new top currency official
said the nation will be able to convince trading partners that
the central bank’s unleashing of unprecedented monetary stimulus
last week is not intended to weaken the yen.  “The monetary policy being carried out by the  Bank of
Japan (8301)  is clearly aimed at getting Japan out of deflation,”
Mitsuhiro Furusawa, the vice-finance minister for international
affairs, said in an interview today in  Tokyo . He said Japan will
“properly explain” its position at a meeting of Group of 20
nations in  Washington  next week.  The yen has weakened about 14 percent against the dollar
since Prime Minister Shinzo Abe took office in December pledging
to pull Japan out of deflation through bold monetary easing. At
the G-20 meeting, Furusawa will be tasked with calming concerns
of countries including  South Korea  that the yen’s fall is
hurting their trade competitiveness.  “Exchange rates are clearly decided by markets,”
Furusawa, 57, said. “We are not causing the market to move.
Market participants are moving markets based on various
expectations.”  Global finance chiefs pledged not “to target our exchange
rates for competitive purposes” in a joint statement at the
G-20 meeting in Moscow in February. Japan wasn’t singled out for
allowing the yen to drop.  The yen is nearing 100 yen against the dollar, falling this
week to its lowest level since April 2009 after BOJ Governor
 Haruhiko Kuroda  pledged last week to double the monetary base to
end more than a decade of deflation. The Japanese currency was
trading at 99.21 at 7:48p.m. in Tokyo today, down about 6
percent from before the central bank’s policy meeting on April
4.  Weakening Yen  Furusawa declined to comment on the level of the yen or
whether its movements have been volatile. Japan’s monetary
authorities will keep monitoring the  currency market  carefully,
he added.  Finance Minister Taro Aso said this week that the excessive
gains of the yen -- which rose to 75.35 in October 2011 -- are
in the process of correction, repeating that the BOJ’s easing is
aimed at shaking off deflation and not intended to artificially
depreciate the currency.  Import Costs  While a weaker currency helps exporters and boosts
repatriated earnings, the government may be on guard against
excessive declines swelling import costs and fueling trade
tensions.  South Korea’s Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok last month
urged the G-20 to revisit the issue after the group refrained
from criticizing Japanese policies in February. In contrast,
International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
this week welcomed the BOJ’s record easing.  Furusawa took his new position last month, replacing
Takehiko Nakao, the incoming president of the  Asian Development
Bank . Furusawa previously headed the ministry’s financial
bureau, which manages bond issuance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  