-- German Stocks Fall, Snapping Two-Day Gain; K+S Declines
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-04-12T16:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/german-stocks-fall-snapping-two-day-gain-k-s-sap-drop.html
German stocks  declined, snapping a
two-day rally, after Cyprus was said to seek an increase in its
bailout funds as euro-area finance ministers met in Dublin, and
a report showed U.S. retail sales unexpectedly fell in March.  K+S AG (SDF)  lost the most in five months after  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
recommended selling  Europe ’s largest potash maker. Deutsche Bank
and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  retreated at least 2.8 percent, following a
gauge of European lenders lower.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  fell to its
lowest price in more than five months after saying global sales
growth slowed in March.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  retreated 1.6 percent to 7,744.77 at the
close of trading in  Frankfurt , paring its weekly gain to 1.1
percent. The broader HDAX Index slipped 1.5 percent today. The
volume of shares changing hands in companies on the DAX was 17
percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  “Generally there is a sense that the U.S. market can’t
continue pushing upwards for an indefinite period so people in
Europe are getting more cautious,” Raimund Saxinger, a  fund
manager  at Frankfurt-Trust Investment GmbH, which oversees about
$22 billion, said in a telephone interview. “The economy in
Europe is still weak so there is not a fundamental reason why
there should be a push higher.”  German stocks extended their decline after Cyprus was said
to seek an increase in the 10 billion euros ($13 billion) in aid
pledged by the euro area. President Cyprus Nicos Anastasiades
will also seek more for Cyprus from the European Union
structural funds, according to a government official, who asked
not to be identified.  European Funds  Cyprus government spokesman Christos Stylianides said
afterwards that Anastasiades hasn’t requested additional
financial assistance. “What the President of the Republic is
discussing with European officials is the possibility of
increasing European funds, for growth and social cohesion,” he
said in an e-mailed statement from Nicosia.  Germany  said extra aid is not on the agenda for rescuing
the island nation.  Separately, euro-area finance ministers met in Dublin where
they reviewed support to Cyprus. Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said the size of the program won’t change and
Cyprus will be able to fill other funding gaps as it
restructures its two largest banks.  Retail  sales  in the U.S. fell in March by the most in nine
months as employment slowed. The 0.4 percent decrease, the
biggest since June, followed a 1 percent gain in February,
Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington. The
 median  forecast of 85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for an unchanged reading in March.  K+S Downgraded  K+S slid 3.9 percent to 34.28 euros after Deutsche Bank cut
the stock to sell from hold, citing poor medium-term earnings
per share and cashflow prospects, and saying it expects potash
pricing to remain under pressure.  Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank, Germany’s biggest lenders,
dropped 3.6 percent to 31.30 euros, and 2.8 percent to 1.17
euros, respectively. A gauge of European banks posted the  third-
worst performance  of the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe
600 Index.  Volkswagen fell 3.3 percent to 147.80 euros. Europe’s
biggest automaker said deliveries rose 0.2 percent last month as
demand in China and  North America  more than offset shrinking
sales across Europe. The Wolfsburg, Germany-based carmaker also
said that headwinds in its home region are intensifying.  “The data for March clearly show that the markets are
becoming even more difficult,” Christian Klingler, VW’s sales
chief, said in a statement.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the largest maker of luxury
cars, slipped 2.4 percent to 67.40 euros, while  Daimler AG (DAI) , the
third-biggest, lost 2.8 percent to 40.12 euros.  A gauge of European auto-related stocks fell 2.8 percent,
for the biggest decline on the Stoxx 600.  Duerr AG (DUE)  gained 3.9 percent to 87.40 euros after UBS AG
initiated coverage of the German maker of painting plants for
the automobile industry with a buy rating, citing the shares’
further potential for outperformance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  