-- German Bunds Rise Amid Cyprus Talks as U.S. Retail Sales Drop
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-04-12T15:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/german-bonds-little-changed-before-euro-area-factory-output-data.html
German 10-year government bonds
rose, paring their first weekly drop in five, as European
finance ministers struggled to get consensus on Cyprus’s bailout
and a drop in U.S. retail sales boosted demand for safer assets.  Benchmark bund yields fell by the most in two weeks. Cyprus
President Nicos Anastasiades will seek an increase to the
nation’s 10 billion-euro bailout from the European Union,
according to a government official, who asked not to be
identified. Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said the
size of the program won’t change. Portuguese bonds rose after
euro-area ministers endorsed an extension to rescue loans for
the nation and Ireland. Spanish bonds slid.  “There’s been a little bit of risk-off and that’s been
reinforced after the U.S. retail sales,” said Allan von Mehren,
chief analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen. “Bunds have
been rallying, U.S. Treasuries too, and also in the peripheral
countries, we’ve seen a bit of higher yields there.”  German 10-year bunds fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.26 percent at 4:47 p.m. London time after
sliding five basis points, the biggest drop since March 27.
Yields are five basis points higher  this week . The 1.5 percent
security maturing February 2023 gained 0.4, or 4 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,306) face amount, to 102.22.  What the Cypriot president “is discussing with European
officials is the possibility of increasing European funds, for
growth and social cohesion,” government spokesman Christos
Stylianides said in a statement e-mailed from Nicosia.  “The market is tinged with bearishness,” said  Ciaran O’Hagan , head of European rates strategy at Societe Generale SA
in Paris. “For the coming quarter, bund yields will stay low.”  Italian Yields  Dijsselbloem, who chaired a meeting of euro-area finance
ministers in Dublin today, had dismissed questions of whether
Cyprus would need as much as 6 billion euros more than the aid
package agreed in Brussels last month. He said the size of the
program won’t change and Cyprus will be able to fill other
funding gaps as it restructures its two largest banks.  Yields on 10-year Spanish bonds increased two basis points
to 4.69 percent after falling yesterday to 4.61 percent, the
 lowest  since Nov. 17, 2010.  Similar maturity  Italian yields were
little changed at 4.33 percent.  Italian politicians have failed to form a government since
elections on Feb. 24-25 produced a hung parliament, producing a
political deadlock that may limit the country’s scope to combat
the longest recession in more than two decades and cut a debt
load that the government said will reach 130.4 percent of  gross
domestic product  this year, more than twice the euro-area limit.  Retail Sales  U.S. retail  sales  fell 0.4 percent in March, the biggest
decline since June, after a 1 percent advance in February,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington . The
 median  forecast of 85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for an unchanged reading. Department stores and electronics
dealers were among the weakest showings.  Gains in U.S. Treasuries pushed benchmark 10-year yields
down by six basis points to 1.73 percent.  Irish 10-year yields were little changed at 3.89 percent,
having dropped 33 basis points this month. They declined
yesterday to 3.877 percent, the lowest since December 2006.  Portugal ’s government bonds rose after Austrian Finance
Minister Maria Fekter said euro-region finance ministers have
agreed to a seven-year extension for loans to the nation.  The 10-year bond yield fell five basis points to 6.31
percent.  Volatility on Belgian bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets followed by those of  Germany  and the Netherlands,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities and credit-default swaps.  German bonds returned 0.5 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Irish debt
securities gained 6.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  