-- Gingrich Tops Latest List of Guests for Thatcher Funeral
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-04-12T13:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/gingrich-tops-latest-list-of-guests-for-thatcher-funeral.html
Newt Gingrich , former speaker of
the House of Representatives and a candidate for the Republican
nomination in the 2012 U.S. presidential election, tops the
latest list of expected guests at Margaret Thatcher’s funeral.  More than 2,000 invitations are being sent out for the
service for the former prime minister in London’s St. Paul’s
Cathedral on April 17, with all surviving former British
premiers and U.S. presidents being asked to attend. The
ceremonial funeral with full military honors is the biggest such
event for a political leader since the state funeral for Winston Churchill in 1965. Queen Elizabeth II will lead the mourners.  Former Australian Prime Minister John Howard and Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the World Wide Web, were also on
the list of expected attendees published by Prime Minister David Cameron’s office today.  Roads in central London will be closed and Parliament
suspended for the service, which starts at 11 a.m. More than 700
troops from U.K. units that fought in the 1982 Falklands War
with  Argentina  under Thatcher’s government will line the route
of the procession.  Thatcher’s death four days ago at age 87 after a stroke has
prompted a divided reaction in the U.K., with her Tory
supporters lauding her economic reforms and strength of
character. Her political opponents have pointed to the decline
in traditional manufacturing and growing north-south divide
under her premiership, which lasted from 1979 to 1990.  Also on the list of expected guests announced today are the
actor Michael Crawford and the opera singer Katherine Jenkins.
Maurice Saatchi, whose advertising agency created the  “Labour
Isn’t Working”  posters that Thatcher’s Conservatives used to
oust the Labour Party in the 1979 general election, is also
expected to be there, Cameron’s office said.  Among those whose planned attendance was confirmed
yesterday are former Labour Prime Minister Tony Blair and former
South African President F.W. de Klerk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in  London  at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  