-- Glaxo’s Avandia Gets Second Look at Heart Risk by U.S.
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-04-12T16:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/glaxo-s-avandia-gets-second-look-at-heart-risk-by-u-s-.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Avandia, the
best-selling diabetes pill that was pulled off the market in
 Europe  and tightly restricted in the U.S. because of its heart
risks, will undergo another regulatory review.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  plans a June meeting
to discuss a re-analysis of a 2009 study, known as Record, that
found Avandia more than doubled the risk of heart failure,
without increasing hospital stays or death from cardiovascular
disease. The re-analysis was requested by a previous advisory
panel that found the drug should remain available in the U.S.  Glaxo isn’t filing any new applications for Avandia or
seeking wider use of the medication, Mary Anne Rhyne, a
spokeswoman for the London-based drugmaker, said in a telephone
interview. The results have been submitted to a journal for
publication and a summary is posted on the company’s clinical
trial register, she said.  “We welcome the opportunity to update the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration about completion of these post-marketing
requirements related to Avandia,” she said in an e-mail.
“GlaxoSmithKline stands behind the safety and efficacy of
Avandia when used appropriately and according to its label.”  The unusual decision to further review the data may mean
the agency wants to try again to pull the drug, which once had
$3 billion in annual sales, said  Ira Loss , an analyst at
Washington Analysis who tracks the FDA. Avandia posted a loss of
$19 million last year, according to Rhyne.  “They must have something in this new adjudication that
gives them more leverage,” Loss said in a telephone interview.
“Very few patients are able to get the drug any more. I have no
idea why they are wasting two days of an advisory committee
meeting. It’s sort of like beating a dead horse.”  Duke Study  The study being re-analyzed was funded by Glaxo and done at
the request of European regulators. The analysis was conducted
by the Duke Clinical Research Institute in Durham,  North
Carolina , and covers 4,500 patients enrolled in the trial from
2001 through 2009, she said.  The FDA is evaluating the results of Duke’s reassessment,
and it’s possible the findings could change the way Avandia is
handled, said Morgan Liscinsky, an agency spokeswoman. The
agency was concerned about the way the study was originally
designed and conducted, thus prompting the review, she said in a
telephone interview.  The  meeting  is scheduled for June 5 and 6 in  Silver Spring ,
 Maryland .  Glaxo, the U.K.’s  biggest drugmaker , has said it paid more
than $3 billion to settle federal and state government claims
that it illegally marketed Avandia, once the world’s best-
selling diabetes pill, and other medications. The drug is
governed by a strict program in the U.S. that limits its use to
patients who understand the risks and have no alternatives.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  