-- GM Strengthens Cadillac Leadership for Global Brand Focus
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-04-12T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/gm-strengthens-cadillac-leadership-for-global-brand-focus.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , pushing to
expand Cadillac’s success outside of the U.S., promoted  Don
Butler  to a new position overseeing the luxury brand’s global
strategy and hired an outsider to direct marketing.  Butler, who had led Cadillac’s U.S. marketing, including
the introduction of the new ATS compact sedan last year, becomes
vice president of global Cadillac strategic development
effective today, GM said in an e-mailed statement. He continues
to report to Bob Ferguson, the Cadillac brand’s head for the
past six months.  The ATS, aimed at customers who might otherwise buy a BMW 3
Series, helped fuel a 49 percent Cadillac sales gain last month
in the U.S. It was the sixth straight month of gains for
 Cadillac , which is rolling out 10 new models by 2015. Chief
Executive Officer Dan Akerson wants the luxury brand to rival
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s BMW and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi.  “Cadillac is continuing to expand in our home market and
globally, which demands that we continually enhance our team’s
focus and capabilities,” Ferguson, vice president of global
Cadillac, said in the statement. “Don’s international
experience and deep product knowledge will be major assets as we
take our global growth to the next level.”  As marketing vice president, Butler has helped change the
perception of the brand during the past year with the
introduction of the ATS and XTS, a new full-size sedan, and the
redesigned CTS, revealed at the  New York auto show  last month.  The XTS began production earlier this year in  China  and the
ATS is planned to go on sale in that country later this year or
next. GM aims to increase Cadillac sales in China to more than
100,000 by 2015 from about 30,000 last year.  Marketing Director  GM also named Steve Majoros to lead Cadillac’s global
marketing team as a director reporting to Ferguson. He joins GM
from Campbell Ewald, where he was a managing director, GM said.  In March, GM announced it was conducting a review of its
 advertising agency  for Cadillac. Fallon Worldwide, which has the
account, was invited to participate with the other agencies, the
automaker said.  While the automaker didn’t disclose which other agencies
it’s talking to, GM executives have already been in
communication with Campbell Ewald about the Cadillac business,
two people familiar with the efforts said at the time.  Ferguson said last month at the New York auto show that he
aims to have resolution on the matter by mid-May.  “We’re building an international brand so we want to have
agencies with capabilities that will help us build that brand
internationally,” Ferguson told reporters in March.  Ferguson was named head of Cadillac in October as part of
Akerson’s reorganization to move the automaker away from
regional fiefdoms toward a company built around global brands
and operations. Akerson has said that the company’s two main
pillars globally will be  Chevrolet  and Cadillac. A similar
global leader for Chevrolet hasn’t been named.  GM slipped  0.1 percent to $27.80 at 11:11 a.m.  New York 
time. The shares rose 3.1 percent this year through yesterday,
trailing the S&P 500’s 12 percent gain.  -- Editors: Jamie Butters, Cecile Daurat  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  