-- Gundlach Sees Junk-Bond Selloff 4 Years Away as Rates Hold
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-04-12T18:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/gundlach-sees-junk-bond-selloff-four-years-away-as-rates-hold.html
A selloff in speculative-grade
bonds is as much as four years away, according to  Jeffrey Gundlach , manager of the top-ranked  DoubleLine Total Return Bond
Fund. (DBLTX)   “ Junk bonds  will do OK,” Gundlach, whose Los Angeles-
based DoubleLine Capital LP managed $56 billion as of March 31,
said yesterday in an interview. While increasingly loose
covenants, payment-in-kind bonds and other signs of froth are
concerning, they haven’t “crossed the line,” he said. “The
stresses aren’t there because rates are low, profits are high.”  This credit cycle has been stretched out after investor
demand for corporate debt allowed issuers to extend maturities
and refinance at lower rates, effectively bailing them out and
delaying the next downturn by three to four years, he said. U.S.
junk-bond yields fell to a record low 6.31 percent yesterday,
down from last year’s high of 8.46 percent, according to the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield index.  Federal Reserve Governor  Jeremy Stein  warned in February
that he was seeing “a fairly  significant pattern  of reaching-
for-yield behavior emerging in corporate credit,” as more than
four years of central bank stimulus push investors toward the
riskiest securities. Gundlach, who correctly predicted the
subprime mortgage crisis in 2007, said while he expects
investors to lose enthusiasm for bonds, yields can stay low for
a long time and interest rates aren’t poised to rise as the Fed
maintains its policy.  Leftover Fruit  Gundlach, who said in December investors should hold cash
and wait to buy risky assets at lower prices, is hunting for the
“fruit left on the trees,” securities that are “off the
run,” for yields of as much as 7 percent and returns of as much
as 10 percent for a “couple of years,” he said in a talk to
investors yesterday at the  New York  Yacht Club.  Gundlach’s DoubleLine Total Return fund has grown to $40
billion since its 2010 inception. The fund  advanced an annual 12
percent  to beat 99 percent of peers over the past three years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Gundlach co-founded
DoubleLine in December 2009 after he was fired from TCW Group
Inc. over a dispute.  Speculative-grade, high-risk bonds, rated below Baa3 at
Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard &
Poor’s , gained an average of 23.2 percent in the four years
ended Dec. 31, 2012, and have returned 2.9 percent this year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Default Rate  The trailing 12-month U.S. speculative-grade corporate
default rate is expected to fall to 2.6 percent by the end of
the year after finishing the first quarter at 2.9 percent,
unchanged compared with a year ago, according to a report April
8 from Moody’s.  The Fed’s Stein said that the junk-debt market may be
overheating in a Feb. 7  speech  in  St. Louis . If so, “it does
not bode well for the expected returns to junk-bond and
leveraged-loan investors.”  A measure of investor protection on North American high-
yield debt averaged over three months deteriorated to a record
low even as covenant quality improved in March, Moody’s said.  The average covenant score, in which 1 is the strongest
covenant quality and 5 the weakest, worsened for a third period
to 3.97 last month, according to Moody’s Covenant Quality Index.  Dan Fuss , whose  Loomis Sayles Bond Fund (LSBDX)  beat 98 percent of
its peers in the last three years, said in January in an
interview in  London  that high-yield is more “overbought” than
at any time in his 55-year career.  “This is absolutely, from a valuation point, ridiculous,”
Fuss said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  