-- Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Declines to a Nine-Month Low
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-04-12T14:42:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/michigan-consumer-sentiment-declined-in-april-to-nine-month-low.html
Confidence among consumers fell in
April to a nine-month low as Americans grew more pessimistic
about the outlook for the economy.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer  sentiment  declined to 72.3 in April from 78.6
a month earlier. This month’s reading was lower than all 69
estimates in a Bloomberg survey that called for no change from
the March number. Consumers’ assessments of their financial
situation deteriorated.  The figures are a sign Americans may be feeling the lagged
effects of a higher payroll tax and they follow a report today
that showed March retail sales fell by the most in nine months.
At the same time, stock prices close to all-time highs and
rising property values are helping to improve household
finances, which may keep spending from faltering.  “If this weakness persists, then I think it will likely
temper spending in coming months,” said  Millan Mulraine ,
director of U.S. rates research at TD Securities USA LLC in New
York. “The rollback on payroll taxes is beginning to have an
impact on consumer spending activity and  consumer confidence .”  Stocks fell after the reports, dragging the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index down from a record. The S&P 500 declined 0.6
percent to 1,584.59 at 10:42 a.m. in New York.  Forecasts in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 74 to 84.5.
The index averaged 64.2 during the recession that ended in June
2009, and 89 in the five years prior to the 18-month slump.  Retail Sales  A report earlier showed  retail sales  fell last month by the
most since June, showing household spending ended the first
quarter on softer footing. The 0.4 percent decrease followed a 1
percent gain in February, Commerce Department figures showed
today in  Washington . The median forecast of 85 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for no change. Department stores
and electronics dealers were among the weakest showings.  The Michigan survey compares with Bloomberg’s measure of
sentiment, which has been little changed over the past four
weeks, holding within a 0.5-point range. The Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index was minus 34 in the week ended April 7 from minus
34.1 the prior period.  The Michigan survey’s  current conditions  index, which
measures whether Americans think it’s a good time to make big
investments and gauges consumers’ view of their personal
finances, dropped to a preliminary reading of 84.8 in April, the
lowest in nine months, from 90.7 in March.  Consumer Expectations  The index of  expectations  six months from now, which more
closely projects the direction of consumer spending, decreased
to 64.2 this month from 70.8 in the prior period.  The report showed that Americans are now more likely to
expect lower permanent after-tax incomes. At the same time, they
maintained positive buying plans for automobiles and houses.
More consumers -- 32 percent -- said they expected the
unemployment rate to increase, compared with 24 percent who said
it will decline.  Rising home prices are improving household balance sheets,
a source of strength for spending and the economy. Home prices
rose 10.2 percent in the 12 months through February, the biggest
increase in almost seven years, according to  Irvine , California-
based CoreLogic Inc.  Stocks are also adding to net worth, while cheaper prices
at the gas pump give consumers more money to spend on other
goods and services. The S&P 500 climbed for a fourth day
yesterday, closing at a record high.  Gasoline Prices  The average price of a gallon of  regular gasoline  was $3.56
yesterday, down from a recent high of $3.79 on Feb. 26,
according to figures from AAA, the largest U.S. motoring group.  The labor market cooled in March. Payrolls grew by 88,000
last month, the smallest increase since June, the Labor
Department said on April 5. Average hourly earnings were
unchanged in March from the prior month, the weakest showing
since October.  Workers are also paying higher payroll taxes. The levy that
funds Social Security reverted in January to its 2010 level of
6.2 percent from 4.2 percent. A person earning $50,000 is taking
home about $83 less a month as a result.  The challenges aren’t lost on some companies such as
Matthews, North Carolina-based  Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO)   “Whether it’s  the payroll tax increase, tax refund
delays, gas prices or difficult weather comparisons, all of
these factors make near-term trends difficult to predict,”
Howard Levine, the company’s chief executive officer, said on an
April 10 earnings call. “As we move into the second half of
fiscal 2013, our discretionary sales continue to be challenged
by both the financial pressures facing our customers as well as
unseasonably cold spring weather.”  Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 3 percent over the next 12 months, compared
with 3.2 percent in March. Over the next five years, Americans
expected a 2.8 percent rate of inflation, the same as in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  