-- Michigan Lawmakers Oppose U.S. Pact With Japan on Autos
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-04-12T19:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/michigan-lawmakers-oppose-u-s-pact-with-japan-on-autos.html
Michigan  lawmakers and an
association of U.S. automakers expressed doubts about a deal
with Japan to reduce vehicle tariffs and pave the way for the
Asian nation to join talks aimed at a Pacific free-trade accord.  The U.S. and Japan, the world’s first- and third-largest
economies, today announced the deal, an important step toward
Japan joining 11 nations forging the Trans-Pacific Partnership
free-trade region. With Japan’s inclusion, it would create a
trading area worth about $26 trillion, the largest in history.  “This package is not at all adequate as a basis for
Japan’s entry into TPP,” Representative  Sander Levin  of
Michigan, the top Democrat on the House Ways and Means
Committee, which oversees trade legislation, said today on a
conference call with reporters. He said the agreement doesn’t
offer enough specific measurements to show that Japan will open
its auto market further to foreign competitors.  An industry group representing U.S. automakers  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)  said Japan’s policies to restrict
auto imports and devalue its currency give it an unfair trading
advantage.  “This is why allowing Japan to join the TPP at this time
risks unraveling the entire free-trade agreement and will
certainly delay its completion,” Matt Blunt, a former
Republican governor of  Missouri  and president of the group, the
Washington-based American Automotive Policy Council, said today
in a statement.  In addition to Ford, of Dearborn, Michigan, and Detroit-
based GM, the organization includes Chrysler Group LLC, a unit
of  Fiat SpA (F)  of Turin,  Italy .  Tariff Elimination  “We take the concerns of the U.S. auto industry extremely
seriously,”  Michael Froman , President  Barack Obama ’s deputy
national security adviser for international economic affairs,
said today on a conference call with reporters. While the
agreement is an “important step forward,” U.S. negotiators
will need to make sure they consider the auto industry’s
concerns, he said.  If a Pacific trade pact is created, the U.S. and Japan
agreed to phase out U.S. tariffs on Japanese autos, and Japan
would expedite certification of American vehicles it accepts.
U.S. automakers will be allowed to export 5,000 autos of each
vehicle type, up from the current limit of 2,000, according to a
fact sheet from the U.S. Trade Representative’s office.  Camp, Stabenow  Michigan lawmakers, long allies of the state’s automakers,
immediately weighed in, casting doubt on the ability to finish
negotiations swiftly.  “I will not support Japan’s entry into TPP unless we
obtain airtight assurances that Japan’s participation in the TPP
negotiations will neither diminish the comprehensive and
ambitious nature of these negotiations nor delay the goal of
concluding the negotiations this year,” Republican
Representative  Dave Camp , chairman of the House Ways and Means
Committee that deals with trade issues, said in a statement.  Democratic Senator  Debbie Stabenow  of Michigan said in a
statement if if Japan doesn’t agree to “stop blocking American
companies from its markets,” she will fight ratification of the
trade agreement.  The two nations also announced today that they would work
toward resolution of trade issues in the insurance and
agricultural sectors. The U.S. trade-in-goods deficit with Japan
in 2012 widened 21 percent to $76.3 billion from the previous
year, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.  Talks Timing  The agreement today doesn’t let Japan join the TPP
negotiations. The 11 nations that are now drafting the accord
must agree to formally invite Japan, and the  U.S. Congress  has
90 days to weigh in before official talks can begin.  “It’s premature to really speculate about timing,” acting
U.S. Trade Representative Demetrios Marantis said on the
conference call.  The U.S., which endorsed Japan’s entry, accounts for almost
75 percent of the current TPP nations’ economic output. Other
governments in the talks are Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile,
Malaysia, Mexico,  New Zealand ,  Peru , Singapore and Vietnam.  Japan and the U.S. will also discuss non-tariff auto issues
including regulations, distribution and new vehicle technology
during talks that will take place alongside the TPP discussions,
according to the USTR.  Dispute Settlement  U.S. negotiators won’t conclude their TPP talks with Japan
until they complete separate talks on autos and non-tariff trade
barriers, Marantis said. For the first time, there will be a
dispute-settlement mechanism allowing the two sides to resolve
their trade differences, he said.  “More work remains to be done before Japan’s full
participation in these talks, but today’s announcement should
lay the groundwork for the eventual addition of a strong U.S.
ally,” Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, said in a
statement.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  of Aichi, Japan, the world’s
largest automaker, operates a plant in Tennessee.  Japanese automakers want the talks to “dispel any
unfounded misunderstandings on the U.S. side” regarding the
Asian nation’s auto market, Akio Toyoda, chairman of the Tokyo-
based Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association Inc., said in a
statement. He is also Toyota’s chairman.  “We believe it is critical to start taking part in these
talks at the earliest possible time,” Toyoda said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  