-- Tiger Woods Heads Into Second Round of Masters Four Shots Back
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-04-12T04:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/tiger-woods-heads-into-second-round-of-masters-four-shots-back.html
Tiger Woods’s quest for his fifth
Masters Tournament title began with two errant shots that struck
fans and ended with a 2-under-par 70 that left him four shots
off the lead.  The world’s No. 1-ranked golfer had three birdies and a
bogey yesterday at Augusta National Golf Club, where he is
seeking to end an eight-year title drought. The opening round
matched the second-lowest total of his 19 appearances at the
event in Augusta, Georgia. Woods posted first-round scores of 70
en route to three of his four previous titles.  “It’s a good start,” Woods told reporters. “Some years,
some guys shot 65 starting out here. But right now I’m only four
back and I’m right there. It was a good day.”  Australia’s Marc Leishman, making his second Masters
appearance, and Spain’s  Sergio Garcia , a 15-time participant,
lead at 6-under par, one shot ahead of American Dustin Johnson.  Fred Couples , 53, and 2008 winner  Trevor Immelman  are among
a group of six players at 4 under. Couples, the tournament’s
1992 winner, bogeyed his final hole to fall two shots off the
lead.  Among Woods’s gallery at the first of golf’s four annual
Grand Slam events was  Lindsey Vonn , his girlfriend and a six- time World Cup ski champion.  Erratic Start  A three-time winner on the U.S.  PGA Tour  this season,
Woods’s day began erratically. After a par on the opening hole,
where his birdie putt from about 10 feet came up short and left
of the cup, he struck the leg of a fan with his second shot on
the next hole. He went on to make par, sinking a short putt
after a long, curling chip from the back of the green.  He followed that with a tee shot on the par-4 third hole
that knocked a beer cup out of a startled spectator’s hand on
the left side of the fairway. Again, Woods was able to salvage a
two-putt par.  After he birdied the par-3 sixth and par-5 eighth holes,
course workers moved his name to the top of the leaderboard
behind the ninth green though several players still had better
scores. Woods glanced at the leaderboard as he walked to the
10th tee at the same time that three-time Masters winner  Phil Mickelson  was approaching the course’s nearby first tee.  Mickelson is at 1 under.  Woods’s third birdie came on the par-5 13th hole, giving
him his 44th birdie in 71 Masters rounds on the hole, the most
of any hole on the course. Though Woods’s early play was less
than perfect, it didn’t diminish the support he received as he
walked the course.  Knight, Rudy  Along with Vonn, who wore a soft brace on her surgically
repaired right knee, Woods’s gallery included  Nike Inc. (NKE)  Chairman
and co-founder  Phil Knight , who walked with Woods’s mother,
Kultida, on his left arm, and former  New York  City Mayor  Rudy Giuliani .  Vonn’s knee injury forced her to spend most of the day
under a large oak tree behind the clubhouse among a group that
included  Mark Steinberg , Woods’s agent.  Woods, 37, has won his past two U.S. PGA Tour starts and
has three victories this season to climb back atop the Official
World Golf Ranking. Woods won the most recent of his four
Masters titles in 2005 and hasn’t captured a major championship
since claiming the 14th of his career at the 2008  U.S. Open .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Augusta, Georgia at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  