-- High-Speed Trader Said to be Considered for SEC Post
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-04-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/high-speed-trader-said-to-be-considered-for-sec-post.html
Chris Concannon, an executive at
high-frequency trading firm Virtu Financial LLC, is under
consideration to oversee trading and markets at the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, according to people briefed
on the discussions.  Concannon met April 10 with the new SEC chairman, Mary Jo White, to discuss the opening, said the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the meeting was private.  In the 1990s, Concannon worked at the SEC in the same
division, which monitors exchanges, brokerages and dark pools,
where prices aren’t publicly displayed. A partner and executive
vice president at Virtu, Concannon has held top jobs at early
electronic trading platforms and at  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)   White, an ex-prosecutor, lacks expertise in market
regulation and has identified high-frequency trading and market
complexity as priorities for her term at the SEC, which began
April 10. Concannon, with his inside view of automated modern
markets, would be a departure for a division that has typically
been run by attorneys with little trading experience.  “I’d want someone who understands the markets, who is
extraordinarily brilliant and not afraid to say the outrageous
and who plays well in the sand pile,” David A. Lipton, director
of the securities law program at Catholic University School of
Law in Washington, said in a telephone interview. “Chris
Concannon fits that to a T.”  Concannon, 45, wouldn’t comment about his talks to run the
SEC’s Trading and Markets Division. SEC spokesman  John Nester 
also declined to comment.  ‘Flash Crash’  One of White’s most immediate tasks is hiring. Along with
the trading and markets job, she needs to fill leadership posts
in the agency’s enforcement and corporation finance divisions.  If chosen, Concannon would be at the forefront of the SEC’s
push to protect individual investors from the potential dangers
of increasingly fragmented markets and high-speed computerized
trading.  The SEC has been under pressure to improve market stability
since the May 2010 “flash crash,” when the Dow Jones
Industrial Average temporarily lost more than $1 trillion in
market value. It took the SEC more than four months to
reconstruct the factors behind the crash, which it blamed on a
single trader’s algorithm.  SEC officials say they continue to study whether high-
frequency traders help or harm modern markets. White asked
whether such firms “result in unnecessary volatility, or create
an uneven playing field” during her Senate nomination hearing
in March.  “The experts and studies to date have not been consistent
or definitive in their observations and findings about whether
and to what extent harm is caused by the current market
structure and practices,” White told the Senate Banking
Committee on March 12.  Knight Bid  In August,  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  was nearly driven into
bankruptcy by automated trading errors that cost the firm more
than $450 million. Knight agreed in December to be acquired by
automated market maker Getco LLC, which beat out a competing
offer by Concannon’s firm, Virtu.  Concannon is a graduate of Catholic University’s law
school, where he studied under Lipton. He worked at the SEC from
1994 to 1998.  In addition to meeting with White, Concannon spoke April 9
at a panel organized by the SEC and Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, which discussed oversight of high-speed
traders and market complexity.  Concannon said the right approach to monitoring high-speed
trading is to require technology controls, such as the SEC’s so-
called “market access rule,” which requires brokers to employ
safeguards against erroneous orders.  ‘Difficult Game’  Defining and making rules for high-frequency trading is “a
very difficult game to play as regulators,” Concannon said at
the forum. Instead, “let’s put filters around the market to
protect. Let’s put obligations in place for people to make sure
there aren’t inappropriate behaviors.”  Before joining Virtu, Concannon was executive vice
president of Nasdaq. He also serves on the board of the
Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation and on an advisory
committee of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dave Michaels in  Washington  at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  