-- Time Warner Hires Eastdil as It Mulls Leaving Building
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-04-12T16:04:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/time-warner-moves-forward-with-plan-to-leave-headquarters.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  hired real estate
brokerage Eastdil Secured LLC to evaluate its headquarters in
Manhattan, taking a step toward leaving the iconic twin-towered
building for less-expensive space.  Eastdil will determine the market value for the company’s
1.1 million-square-foot (100,000-square-meter) building, said
 Keith Cocozza , a spokesman for the media company. No decision
has been made on whether it will sell or lease the Time Warner
Center, a glass-clad structure overlooking Columbus Circle near
Central Park.  Time Warner Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Bewkes is
working to trim costs and focus on the business’s lucrative TV
operations. The company, which owns  HBO , CNN and  Warner Bros .,
announced plans last month to split off its sluggish Time Inc.
magazine group after a failed attempt to form a joint venture
with publisher Meredith Corp.  The Time Warner Center has become one of midtown
Manhattan’s best-known buildings since it opened in 2004. In
addition to  office space , it houses upscale restaurants,
shopping and a Whole Foods market.  Reuters reported yesterday that Time Warner had hired
Eastdil. The company has been considering the move since at
least 2011, when Bewkes called the Time Warner Center “an
indulgence” in an interview with the  New York  Times.  Eastdil managing director Douglas Harmon, who is in charge
of the effort, recently represented Sony Corp. in the $1.1
billion sale of its Manhattan headquarters.  Time Warner shares have climbed 65 percent in the past
year, lifted by profit gains at its television business. The
company posted a 21 percent gain in operating income in the
fourth quarter, largely because of growth in programming revenue
for its cable channels, such as HBO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  