-- Income Partners Focuses on Liquid Credit as Chandra Departs
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-04-12T01:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/income-partners-focuses-on-liquid-credit-as-chandra-departs.html
Income Partners Asset Management
(H.K.) Ltd. , a $1.3 billion credit hedge-fund manager, is moving
away from investments in less-frequently traded assets,
prompting the departure of one of its three partners.  Jiffriy Chandra, who focused on private-capital investments
since the 2008 global financial crisis, left last month after 15
years, Francis Tjia, Hong Kong-based Income Partners’s  chief
executive officer , said in a telephone interview on April 9.  Hedge-fund companies, including  Philip Falcone ’s Harbinger
Capital Partners LLC, put their most illiquid investments in
separate pools and restricted investor withdrawals in the wake
of the 2008 financial crisis to avoid fire-sales of such assets
as their prices plummeted. Raising money for such illiquid
investments has been difficult because of shifts in demand for
financing over the years in the region, Tjia said.  “We’ve been growing much more on the liquid, on the credit
side and that’s where we want to focus most of our efforts,”
Tjia said. “Our liquid side of the business is something we’re
known for.”  Within  Asia , company demand for private financing has
shifted from asset-based lending five years ago to mezzanine
loans, private-equity types of investments and more recently
high-yield lending, making fundraising tougher, Tjia said.
Raising capital for such funds often involves sharing revenue
with investors and tapping into a different pool of investors
willing to accept years of lockup of their commitments, he said.  Keeping Funds  Income Partners’s private-capital investments have included
financing for pre-initial public offerings, and company
recapitalization and debt for distressed companies, according to
its w ebsite . The hedge fund was co-founded by Tjia and Emil Nguy
in 1993 as a fixed-income focused asset manager, with the
backing of Banque Privee Edmond de Rothschild and Lloyd George
Management, the website showed.  The company is retaining its two existing private-capital
funds which have fully invested their combined $300 million of
capital and are expected to exit the investments in the next
couple of years, Tjia said. It has no plans at the moment to
raise new funds dedicated to such investments, he said.  Chandra co-founded TransAsia Private Capital Ltd. with
Eddie Wong, former chief executive officer of  Winnington Capital
Ltd. , a Hong Kong-based manager with $1.8 billion assets, after
leaving Income Partners, the latter said in a separate telephone
interview on April 9.  TransAsia, based in  Hong Kong , will raise capital from
professional and institutional investors to provide private-
capital financing to medium-sized growth companies and projects
in the consumer, real estate, resources and commodity industries
in  Greater China  and  Southeast Asia , according to an e-mailed
document provided by Wong.  Chandra, who joined Income Partners in 1998 as a distressed
and high-yield analyst, rose to one of its three partners before
he left, according to the document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  