-- India’s Factory Output Unexpectedly Rises as Singh Seeks Revival
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-04-12T05:40:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/india-s-factory-output-unexpectedly-rises-as-singh-seeks-revival.html
India’s industrial production
unexpectedly rose in February after policy changes and interest-
rate reductions to revive economic growth from its weakest pace
in a decade.  Production at factories, utilities and mines climbed 0.6
percent from a year earlier after a 2.4 percent gain in January,
the Central Statistical Office said in a statement in New Delhi
today. The median of 30 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 1.3 percent drop.  India is trying to boost expansion as it grapples with a
record current-account deficit and elevated inflation, which has
limited the central bank’s scope to reduce borrowing costs
further. Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram embarks on an
investor roadshow next week in the U.S. and Canada to lure
investors to Asia’s third-largest economy after the steepest
drop in foreign direct investment in more than a decade.  “Growth is likely to remain subdued for the first half of
the year and then we expect a broad recovery, but it won’t be
sharp,” Vishnu Varathan, a Singapore-based economist at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd., said before the report. “Neither domestic
nor global indicators suggest growth roaring back.”  The rupee strengthened 0.1 percent to 54.45 against the
dollar as of 11:01 a.m. in Mumbai, while the  BSE India Sensitive
Index (SENSEX)  slumped 1.4 percent. The yield on the 8.15 percent note
maturing June 2022 slipped 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 7.88 percent.  Stubborn Inflation  India’s wholesale-price  inflation  accelerated to 6.84
percent in February from a year earlier. While economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News predict data due March 15 may show
price gains eased last month, Reserve Bank of India Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao said last week inflation remains “stubborn and
elevated.”  The current account deficit, the broadest measure of trade,
swelled to $32.6 billion in the quarter ended Dec. 31, or 6.7
percent of gross domestic product, stoked by gold and oil
imports and subdued exports. The shortfall has weighed on the
rupee, which is the biggest loser after the yen in the past year
in a basket of 11 most-traded Asian currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  The central bank has cut its  policy rate  by 50 basis points
so far this year to spur growth. Still, carmakers from  Maruti
Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL)  to Ford Motor Co. reported a 6.7 percent fall
in annual sales in the 12-month period ended March, the biggest
decline since 2001, according to the Society of Indian
Automobile Manufacturers.  India’s GDP rose 5 percent in the fiscal year ended March
2013, the slowest pace since 2003, hampered partly by a
moderation in investment, the statistics agency estimates. The
economy may grow 6.1 percent to 6.7 percent in the year through
March 2014, the Finance Ministry predicts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  