-- Indian Top Court Rejects Death-Row Delay as Grounds for Clemency
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k
-- 2013-04-12T09:51:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/indian-top-court-rejects-death-row-delay-as-grounds-for-clemency.html
India’s  top court  said years spent
on death row can’t be considered grounds for clemency as it
rejected a mercy plea from a convicted Sikh militant, a verdict
that may be applied to others aiming to prevent their execution.  Judges gave the ruling as they threw out a petition from
Devinder Singh Bhullar, found guilty of murdering nine people in
a 1993 bombing of an office of the ruling Congress party.
Bhullar, a member of a group that had fought for an independent
Sikh state until the insurgency was crushed in the mid-1990s,
argued his death sentence should be commuted to life in prison
due to the torment he’d suffered awaiting execution.  Supreme Court justices G.S. Singhvi and S.J. Mukhopadhaya
said in their order today that “the petitioner failed to make
out a case for commutation of sentence.”  The verdict has implications for at least nine people on
death row who have sought clemency from  India ’s president. India
was among four countries in the last year that resumed using the
death penalty, bucking a global trend to halt capital
punishment, Amnesty International said in a  report  this month.  “This case has interpreted the law and all pleas will
ultimately be dismissed on the reasoning given in today’s
judgment,” Supreme Court advocate D.B. Goswami said in an
interview. All pending mercy petitions may be “decided soon.”  Since Pranab Mukherjee was appointed president in July he
has rejected mercy petitions of at least seven people, leaving
them at risk of execution, Amnesty International said. Two
people have been hanged -- Mumbai attack gunman Mohammed Ajmal Kasab, and Afzal Guru, a Kashmiri found guilty of participating
in a strike on India’s parliament in 2001. Kasab’s was the
country’s first execution since 2004.  ‘Quicker the Better’  Indian Chief Justice Altamas Kabir said this week that the
government should speed up the punishments for people on death
row. Kabir said “the quicker things are done, the better it is
for everybody,” in  comments  reported by the Times of India
newspaper.  The car bomb triggered by Bhullar, a member of the
Khalistan Liberation Front, was an attempt to kill the leader of
the Youth Congress in Punjab, and left the politician’s two
bodyguards among the dead. Friends of Bhullar told reporters
today that he was mentally ill.  The violence in Punjab simmered for years and erupted in
1984, when India’s army assaulted the Golden Temple in Amritsar
and killed the leader of the insurgency who had taken refuge in
Sikhism’s holiest shrine. Then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi was
shot and killed later that year by her Sikh bodyguards, who were
seeking vengeance.  The assassination of Gandhi led to riots in the capital New
Delhi that left 3,000 people dead. A commission headed by
Justice G.T. Nanavati named some Congress leaders for
instigating crowds to attack Sikhs.  About 20,000  people  were killed in the fight for a Sikh
homeland, according to academics at Amherst College and Georgia
Institute of Technology.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Pratap Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  