-- Indian Rupee Completes Weekly Gain on Optimism Imports Will Slow
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-04-12T11:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/india-s-rupee-set-for-weekly-gain-on-optimism-imports-will-slow.html
India ’s rupee completed its biggest
weekly advance in more than a month on optimism imports will
slow, helping rein in a record current-account deficit.  The International Energy Agency and Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries yesterday cut forecasts for global
oil demand in 2013.  Gold prices  were poised for a third weekly
decline after some investors reduced holdings of the metal as
signs the U.S. economic recovery is gaining momentum spurred
speculation that the  Federal Reserve  may pare stimulus. India is
the world’s biggest bullion-importing nation and ships in more
than 80 percent of its oil needs.  “A sustained fall in gold and crude  oil prices , which are
the biggest drivers of the current-account deficit,” will
contribute to a slight strengthening of the rupee, analysts at
Edelweiss Financial Advisors Ltd., including Mumbai-based Vinay
Khattar, wrote in a report today.  The rupee gained 0.5 percent this week to 54.5250 per
dollar in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, the
biggest advance since the five days through March 8. The
currency ended unchanged today from April 10. The market was
shut yesterday for a local holiday.  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell 31 basis points,
or 0.31 percentage point, this week to 7.52 percent.  Export Concern  The rupee pared gains today after rising earlier by as much
as 0.3 percent, as Infosys Ltd., the nation’s second-largest
software services exporter, forecast annual sales growth as slow
as half the pace analysts estimated. The company’s shares
plunged 21 percent, the most in 10 years, helping push the S&P
BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  Index down 1.6 percent.  The shortfall in India’s  current account , the broadest
measure of trade, rose to an all-time high of $32.6 billion in
the quarter through Dec. 31 as oil and gold imports surged.  Industrial production  in  Asia ’s third-largest economy rose
0.6 percent in February after a 2.4 percent gain in January,
official data showed today. The median of 30 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 1.3 percent drop.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 55.59 per
dollar, compared with 55.57 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 55.47 versus 55.38. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  