-- Infosys Extends Biggest Slide in a Decade in U.S. Trading
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   S u r e s h   S e s h a d r i
-- 2013-04-12T20:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/infosys-profit-beats-estimates-after-lodestone-adds-to-revenue.html
Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  plunged the most since
2003 in  New York , following a 21 percent slide in Mumbai, after
 India ’s second-largest software services exporter forecast
annual sales growth will slow to as little as half the pace
estimated by analysts.  American depositary receipts of Infosys sank 21 percent to
$43.10 at the close in New York, the steepest decline since
April 2003. Shares tumbled to 2,296.65 rupees in Indian trading,
also the largest drop in a decade and the  biggest slump  on
Mumbai’s S&P BSE India Index.  The company, based in Bangalore, said that it expects
 revenue  to rise 6 percent to 10 percent in the year ending March
2014. The  average  of 66 analysts’ estimates was for a 12.7
percent increase in sales for the period, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The uneven global recovery poses a challenge for
the information-technology services industry, Chief Executive
Officer S.D. Shibulal said after the  European Central Bank  cut
growth and inflation forecasts last month.  “It is a real disaster for Infosys, primarily because of
their low guidance along with their fourth-quarter revenue,”
said Amar Mourya, a Mumbai-based analyst at India Nivesh Ltd.,
which has rated Infosys a buy since March. “Their confidence
seems to be shaken with such a broad forecast, and visibility
looks poor.”  Bigger competitor  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , which is
scheduled to report earnings April 17, fell 1.6 percent in
Mumbai and  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  dropped 4.8 percent. ADRs of Wipro,
India’s third-largest software-services provider, slipped 4.6
percent in New York, set for the biggest one-day drop since Jan.
18. While the S&P BSE Sensex fell 1.6 percent, the  Bank of New
York Mellon Corp. (BK)   index  of Indian company ADRs rose less than
0.1 percent in U.S. trading.  ‘Substantial’ Unknowns  Infosys didn’t provide an earnings per share forecast as
the “unknowns are substantial,” CEO Shibulal said on a
conference call with analysts. The company said that it charged
customers less last quarter, underscoring concerns that service
providers won’t be able to raise prices.  The spending budgets of customers in financial services,
which contributed 27 percent of Infosys’ revenue, will drop, the
company said last month.  “From an environment perspective it is mixed, it is
challenging,” Shibulal said in Bangalore today. “Clients are
completely focused on cost, which is leading to pricing
pressure. In the U.S. and  Europe  the signals are mixed so that
is hampering clients’ ability to take quick decisions.”  India’s information-technology industry is forecast to
expand as much as 14 percent in the year started April,
according to Nasscom, an industry group.  Volatile Environment  “The volatility in the environment and our ability to
predict the ramp ups and the new deal wins and closures is
something which is the challenging part right now,”  Infosys (INFY) 
Chief Financial Officer Rajiv Bansal said.  The ECB expects the 17-nation euro-region economy to shrink
0.5 percent this year before growing 1 percent in 2014.  Net income  for Infosys rose 3.4 percent to 23.9 billion
rupees in the three months ended March from a year earlier, the
company said today. That beat the 23 billion-rupee median of 41
 analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 18 percent
to 104.5 billion rupees, less than the 107.5 billion-rupee
median of 46 projections.  “The margin performance this quarter is very disappointing
and clearly indicates the firm is in transition,” said Ankur Rudra, an analyst with Ambit Capital Pvt. in Mumbai. “The way
they are going, we don’t see a tremendous amount of growth or
margin recovery in the short term.”  Reduced Spending  Accenture Plc (ACN) , the world’s second-largest technology-
consulting company, signaled last month that customers may be
reducing or holding back on spending because of economic
uncertainty, particularly in Europe.  Siemens AG (SIE)  yesterday said that it is targeting the industry
division for about half of its planned job cuts as Europe’s
biggest engineering company seeks cost savings to counter
falling demand.  Infosys got 62 percent of its  revenue  from  North America  in
the year ended March, 23 percent from Europe, 2 percent from
India and the rest from other regions, according to the company.  Top information technology service providers are predicted
to post “double-digit” growth as a recovery in the U.S. and in
financial services stokes demand, according to Bloomberg
Industries analyst Anurag Rana.  “In-line with the results of our December 2012 survey and
as indicated by a dismal top line growth guidance, the company
continues to struggle competitively” Moshe Katri and Avishal
Kantor, analysts at Cowen & Co., wrote in a note to clients
today. “The bottomline, we believe Infosys’ issues continue to
be company specific rather than industry-specific.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net ;
Suresh Seshadri in Bangalore at 
 sseshadri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  