-- Hitachi Loses Royalty Bid on TPV High-Definition TV Sales
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-04-14T15:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/hitachi-loses-patent-trial-against-tpv-over-hdtvs.html
Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  lost a U.S. patent-
infringement trial in which it sought as much as four years of
royalty payments from  TPV Technology Ltd. (903)  on sales of high-
definition televisions.  A federal jury in Marshall,  Texas , last week said TPV, the
world’s fourth-largest maker of LCD televisions, didn’t infringe
four Hitachi patents and that two of them were invalid.  The dispute is over inventions related to an industrywide
standard for a process to transmit digital audio and visual
signals, as well as program data, over the airwaves. Hitachi
claimed that televisions made by TPV and its units infringed the
company’s patents.  TPV sells televisions under its own brands AOC and Envision,
according to information on the company’s website. It also took
over Royal Philips Electronics NV’s television operation last
year. LCD televisions generated $3.7 billion in sales, about a
third of TPV’s total revenue, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  TPV denied infringing the patents and claimed at least some
of them were invalid. Hong Kong-based TPV also is the world’s
biggest contract maker of computer monitors.  Tokyo-based Hitachi ended 56 years of TV manufacturing last
year as part of a turnaround from a record loss three years ago
amid falling prices for the electronics. It outsources
manufacturing while still selling Hitachi-branded TVs.  Hitachi’s consumer products division  generated  sales of 787
billion yen ($7.9 billion), or 8 percent of the company’s
revenue, in the 12 months ending March 31, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Vizio Inc., which sells low-cost televisions, also was
named in the case before the two sides signed a settlement
agreement on April 1.  The case is Hitachi Consumer Electronics Co. v. Top Victory
Electronics ( Taiwan ) Co., 10cv260, U.S. District Court for the
Eastern District of Texas (Marshall).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  