-- Mitsubishi UFJ CEO Plans to Boost U.S. Energy Industry Loans
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2013-04-15T02:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/mitsubishi-ufj-ceo-plans-to-boost-loans-to-u-s-energy-industry.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest lender, plans to increase loans to energy
and utility industries in the U.S. to capitalize on a recovery
in the world’s largest economy, President Nobuyuki Hirano said.  The bank, whose San Francisco-based UnionBanCal Corp. unit
last week agreed to acquire $3.7 billion of U.S. property-loan
assets from Deutsche Bank AG, is still looking to buy another
lender in the country, Hirano, 61, said in an April 8 interview.  Mitsubishi UFJ is  stepping up  acquisitions in the U.S. as a
rebound in the housing market and increasing demand for its
natural gas brighten growth prospects. The Tokyo-based lender,
Morgan Stanley’s largest shareholder, bought UnionBanCal in 2008
and Santa Barbara-based Pacific Capital Bancorp last year as
persistent deflation inhibits  loan demand  at home.  “We want to accumulate project-finance loans in the energy
and utility sectors on top of our commercial and corporate
banking operations to bridge our businesses on the west and east
coasts,” said Hirano. “By unifying those platforms, we can
further increase our presence in the U.S.”  Hirano, who has worked at Mitsubishi UFJ and its
predecessors for 39 years, became president this month,
succeeding  Katsunori Nagayasu . He takes the reins of a bank that
expanded overseas lending last year by 20 percent to 21.9
trillion yen ($221 billion) as of Dec. 31.  Shares of Mitsubishi UFJ fell 0.9 percent to 667 yen in
 Tokyo  as of 11:02 a.m. The benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY) 
dropped 1.1 percent.  Gas Boom  The U.S. is poised to become a net exporter of liquefied
petroleum gas for the first year ever as shale-based energy
production jumps, prompting new orders for specialized ships to
haul propane and butane. The boom in natural gas and oil
production helped the U.S. meet 84 percent of its energy needs
in 2012, the most since 1991, government data show.  Mitsubishi UFJ is still seeking to  buy  a regional bank on
the west coast to strengthen commercial lending at UnionBanCal,
Hirano said.  “The regional banks that we’ve been looking at recently
are mostly small ones with a market value in the 100 million to
multi-hundred million dollar range,” he said, without
elaborating. “We want to buy something that can bring about
geographical synergy.”  In an interview last April, Hirano said the Japanese bank
was considering spending “several billion” dollars to buy a
U.S. lender.  Profit Goal  The Americas generates about 60 percent of Mitsubishi UFJ’s
revenue outside  Japan , according to presentation materials
posted on its website. The bank aims to increase gross profit
from the region by 30 percent in the year ending April 2015 from
three years earlier, it said.  UnionBanCal will acquire a commercial real estate lending
portfolio from Deutsche Bank’s PB Capital Corp., it said in a
 statement  on April 7. About 35 percent of the loans are from  New
York , while  Los Angeles  makes up 9 percent and Chicago 8
percent, according to the statement.  Sales of new U.S.  houses  in February capped the best back-
to-back months in more than four years, Commerce Department
figures show. The economy’s expansion probably accelerated to a
3 percent annual rate last quarter from 0.4 percent at the end
of 2012, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  “No other market is bigger or deeper than the U.S.,” said
Hirano, who served on  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s board for two years until
May 2011. “The chance to grow our businesses there remains
high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  