-- Liverpool Is Favorite to Sign Swansea’s Williams: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-04-12T08:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/liverpool-is-favorite-to-sign-swansea-s-williams-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Williams Wanted  Liverpool is the favorite to sign Swansea’s Ashley Williams
in the offseason after Arsenal had a 9 million-pound bid for the
central defender rejected in January, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Although Arsenal has left its offer open, Williams is a
boyhood Liverpool fan and previously played under Reds manager
Brendan Rodgers at Swansea, the newspaper added.  12 Million Pounds  Liverpool must decide if it wants to pay a minimum of 12
million pounds to beat Arsenal to the signature of Williams, the
 Daily Telegraph reported .  Rodgers, who covets Williams as the successor to the
retiring Jamie Carragher, needs to persuade the club’s board
about the merits of spending a significant portion of his
transfer budget on a 28-year-old, the Telegraph added.  Going for Goetze  Manchester City joined Arsenal and Manchester United in
expressing an interest in Borussia Dortmund playmaker Mario Goetze, the  Daily Mail reported .  Goetze, 20, has said he would be keen to play for United at
some stage, although Champions League semifinalist Dortmund
values him at about 35 million pounds and expects him to stay
another season, the newspaper added.  United Jittery  Antonio  Valencia  said Manchester United is concerned about
throwing away its 12-point lead atop the Premier League
following this week’s loss to second-place Manchester City, the
 Independent reported .  “We’re a little worried,” the newspaper cited Valencia as
telling Ecuadorian radio station Sonorama. “Last year, we were
eight points clear with six games to go and we lost the league.
Now it is 12 points and seven games, and we don’t want it to
happen again.”  Carroll’s Price Cut  West Ham will offer Liverpool 10 million pounds for striker
Andy Carroll at the end of the season, the  Daily Mail reported .  Carroll is on loan at West Ham and the club has an option
to sign him permanently for 17 million pounds, though injuries
and his goal return have prompted the Hammers to reduce their
offer, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  