-- J.C. Penney Said to Hire Blackstone to Raise $1 Billion
-- B y   J o d i   X u ,   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-04-12T20:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/j-c-penney-said-to-hire-blackstone-to-raise-at-least-1-billion.html
Myron Ullman is just a few days
into his return as chief executive officer of money-losing
department store  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  and he’s already come to one
important conclusion: the chain needs cash.  J.C. Penney Co. hired  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  to help it raise
at least $1 billion, said people with knowledge of the
situation, as the retailer tries to recover from its worst
annual  loss  in more than 25 years.  The third-largest U.S. department-store chain is exploring
a range of options to raise the money, including selling a stake
to some private-equity firms, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the process is private. The Plano, Texas-
based company also is interviewing other outside advisers to
help it preserve cash, said one of the people.  J.C. Penney ousted CEO  Ron Johnson  this week after a dismal
first year on the job and reinstated his predecessor, Ullman.
Sales in the year ended Feb. 2 plunged 25 percent to $13
billion, the lowest since at least 1987. Ullman, 66, served as
J.C. Penney’s chairman and CEO for about seven years before
Johnson, 54, took over in November 2011.  Hiring outside advisers “suggests a little bit of a level
of desperation,”  Liz Dunn , an analyst at Macquarie Group in New
York, said in an interview. “They have said repeatedly they
have adequate liquidity.”  Funding Transformation  Chief Financial Officer Kenneth Hannah told analysts on a
Feb. 27 conference call to discuss fourth-quarter results that
the company had plenty of liquidity and would fund Johnson’s
transformation of the 110-year-old chain with cash from
operations.  J.C. Penney  declined  1.6 percent to $14.62 at the close in
New York. The shares have dropped 7.9 percent since Ullman came
back. The stock fell 50 percent from Nov. 1, 2011, the day
Johnson started, through his last day on April 8.  A representative for Blackstone declined to comment
yesterday. J.C. Penney said it couldn’t confirm whether it’s
hired Blackstone to raise capital. Daphne Avila, a spokeswoman
for the retailer, did say in an e-mailed statement that the
company had hired advisers to best position the chain from a
financial standpoint during Johnson’s transformation, which J.C.
Penney hadn’t previously disclosed.  Johnson Overhaul  Johnson, the much-heralded former head of Apple Inc.’s
retail division, attempted to overhaul almost every aspect of
the chain. He reduced promotions in favor of everyday low
prices, cut the workforce by more than 40,000 employees and
invested in renovating about 700 of the chain’s 1,100 stores
with boutiques dedicated to such brands as Levi’s and Izod in an
attempt to attract younger and wealthier shoppers.  It didn’t work, and current customers fled while new ones
didn’t visit. As a result, J.C. Penney posted a net loss of $985
million last year. By the time the company’s board replaced
Johnson on April 8, the chain was in an “urgent cash
situation,” Michael Binetti, an analyst for UBS AG in  New York ,
wrote in an April 9 note to clients.  The chain’s operations consumed $10 million  in cash  in the
year ended Feb. 2, the first year they’ve done so since at least
1987, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. J.C. Penney
produced $820 million in cash from operations the previous year.  That led the company to delay payments to major vendors and
push out payable days in recent weeks, Binetti said, citing
vendor contacts. Binetti recommends selling J.C. Penney shares.  The move to hire Blackstone may have been driven partly by
Ullman wanting to reassure vendors that J.C. Penney will be able
to keep paying them, said Dunn, who has a neutral rating on J.C.
Penney shares.  Creditors Fleeing  Creditors have been fleeing J.C. Penney, whose debt rating
 Standard & Poor’s  cut Feb. 28 to a grade that indicates
vulnerability to nonpayment. The company’s cash position also
had declined to $930 million in the quarter ended Feb. 2 from
$1.51 billion a year earlier.  Standard & Poor’s said in a February note lowering J.C.
Penney’s debt rating that the retailer may have to borrow from a
$1.85 billion revolving  credit line  to fund operations or seek
more financing for its transformation.  Part of the reason Ullman may be seeking to raise capital
is that the company is spending to finish renovating the home
goods sections of 500 stores, Dunn said. Binetti said in his
note that this project represented 15 percent of the company’s
selling square footage.  The Wall Street Journal reported earlier yesterday that
J.C. Penney hired Blackstone to raise capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jodi Xu in New York at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  