-- JAB Buys Master Blenders for $9.8 Billion in Biggest Deal
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   C e l e s t e   P e r r i
-- 2013-04-12T16:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/jab-agrees-to-purchase-d-e-master-blenders-for-9-8-billion-1-.html
Joh. A. Benckiser, the investment
arm of the billionaire Reimann family, agreed to buy  D.E Master
Blenders 1753 NV (DE)  for about 7.5 billion euros ($9.8 billion) to
build a coffee conglomerate in the industry’s biggest deal ever.  JAB will pay 12.50 euros a share, the companies said in a
statement today, less than the price the parties disclosed they
were discussing last month. Amsterdam-based Master Blenders’
board supports the offer, it said in the statement.  The purchase of the Senseo maker, which was spun off by
Sara Lee Corp. last year, will give JAB a platform to expand its
coffee business both organically and by acquisition, JAB
Chairman Bart Becht said today. JAB agreed to buy U.S.-based
coffee chains Peet’s Coffee & Tea Inc. and Caribou Coffee Co.
for more than $1 billion in total last year.  While the offer is lower than originally suggested, “it
certainly looks like a fair price,” said Jon Cox, an  analyst  at
Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich. “I presume JAB’s idea is to
establish a global coffee company, something hybrid between
Starbucks and Nestle/Nespresso. Competition will be pretty
intense between companies.”  Shares Fall  Master Blenders shares fell 1 percent to 12.11 euros at the
close of Amsterdam trading. JAB and Master Blenders announced on
March 28 that they were in discussions that could lead to a deal
at 12.75 euros a share, triggering a 25 percent advance for the
stock that day.  The price was “disappointing,”  Marco Gulpers , an analyst
at ING said today. Gulpers said in a note yesterday he expected
a closing price of 13 euros if Master Blenders’ team would fight
to “extract the highest value not only for shareholders, but
also for other stakeholders.”  Master Blenders interim Chief Executive Officer Jan Bennink
today attributed the lower price to due diligence in an
interview posted on the company’s website.  “In any due diligence process, there’s a couple of
positives, there’s a couple of negatives and in the end, we came
to an agreement that 12.50 euros is the correct price,” Bennink
said in the interview. The deal gives Master Blenders a total
value of 36 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, according to Bloomberg data. JAB’s purchase of
Peet’s valued that business at 22 times Ebitda.  Termination Fee  The transaction, which is subject to shareholders
controling 95 percent tendering their shares, is expected to be
completed at the end of July or beginning of August, Bennink
told analysts in a conference call. If the merger falls through,
JAB will forfeit a reverse termination fee to Master Blenders of
150 million euros, according to the statement.  Following years of underinvestment when it was part of Sara
Lee, Master Blenders has stumbled since it was spun off in June.
Accounting errors were uncovered at the Brazilian business, and
CEO Michiel Herkemij departed after only 12 months, leaving
Chairman Bennink in charge. In February, the company reduced its
2013 sales and profitability forecasts --casting doubt on
Bennink’s plan to become the world’s No. 2 coffee company.  Master Blenders “has a very strong management team,
fantastic brands, enormous expertise and potential in the coffee
and tea categories,” Becht said today. The company intends to
use Master Blenders to expand in coffee and tea, he said.  Strategic Holding  JAB took a stake in Master Blenders last year following the
spin-off, saying it was a financial rather than strategic
holding. The company had not decided at that point whether it
wanted to buy all of the company, Becht said.  “We believed we could pick up the shares at a very
interesting price and have a good return,” Becht said. “Our
decision to go for the total came much, much later and really
came subsequent to a strategic review, which we did at the
beginning of this year.”  The offer is fully financed and JAB said it will use a
combination of about 3 billion euros in debt and about 4.9
billion euros of equity. The company has fully committed debt
financing from Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc., Rabobank
and Morgan Stanley, it said. The company has also secured equity
financing from parties including JAB Forest BV and BDT Oak
Acquisition Vehicle.  Plant Facilities  Master Blenders’ headquarters, research and development,
and plant facilities will remain in the Netherlands, JAB said.
After the deal is completed, JAB proposes a board to include
Becht as chairman, and Peter Harf, Olivier Goudet, Alexandre Van
Damme,  Byron Trott  and Alejandro Santo Domingo as non-executive
members.  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  acted as lead financial adviser to Master
Blenders. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. also
aided the Dutch company. Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Leonardo
& Co., BDT & Co. and Rabobank/Rothschild advised Oak Leaf BV, a
company owned by a JAB-led investor group, which made the offer.
Morgan Stanley and Citigroup advised JAB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  