-- Japan Teachers Fund to Invest Abroad as J-REITs Become Expensive
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2013-04-12T01:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/japan-teachers-fund-to-invest-abroad-as-j-reits-become-expensive.html
Japan’s  Teachers’ Mutual Aid Co-
operative Society  will invest as much as 6 billion yen ($60
million) in real estate investment trusts mainly abroad this
fiscal year after REITs at home became expensive.  The pension fund with about 600 billion yen in assets
invested 5 billion yen in Japanese REITs in the fiscal year
ended March 31 and doesn’t plan to increase allocations for now
after they surged in value, said Toru Higuchi, a general manager
in the asset management department in Tokyo.  The 39-member  Tokyo Stock Exchange REIT Index (TSEREIT)  has surged 44
percent this year on the back of the government’s plan to end
decades of economic stagnation and deflation, even as a recovery
in rents has trailed. The U.S. REIT market, the world’s biggest,
offered an average 3.42 percent yield as of March 25, while that
in  Australia  provided 5.24 percent, Japanese REITs returned 3.24
percent and U.K. trusts offered 3.93 percent, according to
Mizuho Securities Co.  “The J-REITs are getting expensive based on the
fundamentals, such as rents,” Higuchi said in an interview in
Tokyo yesterday. “Unlike the mini bubble we have in Japan, the
yields in global REIT markets, such as the U.S., Australia and
the U.K., look attractive.”  The 527,000-member fund, which offers teachers coverage,
including medical, automobile and fire insurance, earned returns
on assets of 0.8 percent in the year ended March 2012, according
to the most recent financial statement. That compares with a 2.3
percent return in the same period by  Japan ’s Government Pension
Investment Fund, the world’s largest, according to its  website .  Rental Decline  Office rents for Tokyo’s central five wards have been
declining since the global financial crisis in 2008, according
to Miki Shoji Co., an office brokerage company. They fell to a
record low of 16,504 yen ($165) per tsubo in March, the broker
said. A tsubo, the standard measure of property in Japan, is 3.3
square meters, or 35.5 square feet.  The office vacancy rate, which peaked in June at 9.4
percent, fell to 8.56 percent in March, it said.  The 48-year-old teachers’ pension fund last year adopted a
new strategy to counter a decline in the value of traditional
asset classes, such as stocks and bonds, which have made up the
bulk of its main investments.  The fund is seeking a couple of REIT advisers to help
manage investments in global REITs and may finalize its plan by
June, Higuchi said. The pension will also look for one to two
hedge funds to invest in, he said, declining to elaborate.  Fifty-five percent of Teachers’ Mutual’s assets were in
government and corporate bonds in the fiscal year ended March,
while Japanese equities accounted for 6 percent, followed by 4
percent in foreign bonds and overseas stocks, according to the
fund. The rest was in cash and general accounts of life
insurers, the fund said on its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in  Tokyo  at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  