-- Japan Reaches Deal With U.S. on Joining TPP Trade Talks
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-04-12T12:43:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/japan-reaches-deal-with-u-s-on-joining-tpp-trade-talks.html
Japan  reached a deal with the U.S.
on bilateral trade issues that clears the way for the world’s
third-largest economy to join talks for the Trans-Pacific
Partnership trade agreement as soon as July.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe told his Cabinet at a meeting
today in  Tokyo  that an agreement had been reached, after Mexico
said April 8 it will support Japan’s entry into negotiations on
an accord that would lower tariffs in countries that account for
40 percent of global trade.  Japan is pushing to gain the necessary approval from all 11
governments in the talks, with  Canada ,  Australia , New Zealand
and Peru yet to give consent. Abe has said the accord is
necessary for the nation’s economic future, while vowing to
shield farmers, who have been protected by a 778 percent tariff
on rice and traditionally have backed his  Liberal Democratic
Party .  “The real battle to realize our national interests starts
now,” Abe told his ministers. “I want to join the TPP talks as
soon as possible and lead the negotiations.”  The Japan-U.S. agreement includes measures to lower trade
barriers in the automotive and insurance sectors, as well as
non-tariff issues, according to a fact sheet from the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office today.  ‘Economic Benefits’  “Japan’s entry into this important initiative for the
Asia-Pacific region will help it to deliver significant economic
benefits to the  United States , Japan and the Asia-Pacific
region,” acting U.S. Trade Representative Demetrios Marantis
said today in a statement welcoming the two-nation agreement.  House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp , a
Michigan Republican whose panel reviews trade accords, said his
support for Japan’s role relied on swift completion of the
broader talks.  “I will not support Japan’s entry into TPP unless we
obtain airtight assurances that Japan’s participation in the TPP
negotiations will neither diminish the comprehensive and
ambitious nature of these negotiations nor delay the goal of
concluding the negotiations this year,” Camp said in a
statement.  The regional negotiations are aimed at boosting trade by
lowering tariffs and also at strengthening patent protection and
improving access to government contracts. U.S. automakers have
opposed Japan’s participation unless the nation eases market
barriers that they say restrict American sales.  Automaker Caution  “We don’t believe, based on experience, that Japan will
truly open its market,” Matt Blunt, a former Missouri governor
and president of the American Automotive Policy Council, said in
a phone interview yesterday. The group represents American
automakers including  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)   “We’re strong supporters of the TPP,” Blunt said. “If
you add Japan you really undermine the quality of the agreement
itself and certainly delay its completion.”  The U.S. and Japan agreed to conduct negotiations on the
automobile trade in parallel with TPP talks, according to a
statement released by the Japanese government.  Both governments confirmed that as part of the TPP
negotiations, U.S. tariffs on cars will be abolished through
gradual reductions over the longest possible period of time.
This process will take more time than agreed to in the U.S.-
Korea free-trade agreement, according to Japanese Economy
Minister Akira Amari.  The two nations also agreed to discuss non-tariff barriers
in areas including insurance and sanitary and phytosanitary
measures, in parallel with the TPP talks, according to the
statement.  Joining the TPP would boost Japan’s gross domestic product
by 3.2 trillion yen ($32.3 billion) while cutting farm and
marine production by 3 trillion yen, according to a government
estimate.  The other members of the talks are Australia, Canada,  New
Zealand , Singapore, Brunei, Malaysia,  Vietnam , Peru and  Chile .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  