-- Joy Global Says Reviews of IMM Indicate Results Accurate
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-04-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/joy-global-s-reviews-of-imm-indicate-results-accurate-cfo-says.html
Joy Global Inc. (JOY) , the world’s
second-largest maker of mining equipment, refuted allegations
made about its International Mining Machinery Holdings Ltd. unit
and said it has a “high level of comfort” in the reported
results of the business it bought in  China  last year.  “Joy Global has conducted numerous internal and external
financial and operational audits and business reviews of IMM
before, during and subsequent to the company’s acquisition in
2012,”  Jim Sullivan , Milwaukee-based Joy Global’s chief
financial officer, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“These audits and business reviews have not uncovered any
fraudulent activity and have given management a high level of
comfort that the internal controls within the business are sound
and reported results are accurate.”  A report dated April 11 on the website of Anonymous
Analytics said there was fraud at IMM before Joy Global
completed its purchase of the company, and five of IMM’s six
largest disclosed customers appeared to have been “shell
entities or related parties controlled” by the unit’s insiders.
There may be a risk of Joy taking a writedown on IMM, according
to the unsigned report.  Sullivan said yesterday that  Joy Global  conducted its
regular goodwill review at the end of fiscal 2012 and will go
through the process again for the year through October. At the
moment, the company sees no reason to believe there will be a
goodwill charge, he said.  ‘Independent’ Customers  The distributors or sales agents listed in the report are
“active and independent” customers of IMM, Sullivan said.  Joy  fell  0.7 percent to close at $54.47 yesterday in  New
York . The shares tumbled 4.2 percent the previous day.  Sutherlin said in January the company is “not concerned
with writedowns at this point” and tests and controls including
a year-end audit confirm the accuracy of information from IMM.  Questions about IMM have been raised since  Caterpillar
Inc. (CAT) , the world’s largest mining-equipment maker, said it
uncovered false accounting at a Chinese unit. Caterpillar
announced Jan. 18 it would take a $580 million writedown after
discovering accounting “misconduct” at the Zhengzhou Siwei
Mechanical & Electrical Manufacturing Co. unit of Chinese
subsidiary ERA Mining Machinery Ltd. Former ERA directors Emory
Williams and Li Rubo were founders of IMM.  Anonymous Analytics said in its report that while it
doesn’t hold direct or indirect interests or positions in Joy
Global, it can be assumed that contributors to the report and
its clients have short positions in the stock or debt of the
company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  