-- JPMorgan Switches Risk Model Again After Whale Loss
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-04-12T15:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/jpmorgan-switches-risk-model-again-after-whale-loss.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , whose trading
loss of more than $6.2 billion last year was fueled by the
adoption of a formula that understated risks, has adopted yet
another model.  JPMorgan said today it employed a new formula to judge the
risk of its credit derivatives position, at least the fourth
such model it’s used since January 2012. The portfolio was built
by Bruno Iksil, known as the London Whale because his bets were
so big they moved markets.  The bank changed its measurement of value at risk, or VaR,
for the credit derivatives book in the first quarter of this
year “to achieve consistency with like products” within the
corporate and investment bank, JPMorgan said today in a
 supplement . “This change had an insignificant impact” to
average VaR for fixed income and the investment bank’s trading
and credit portfolio, the New York-based bank said.  JPMorgan had previously changed the VaR model, which
estimates the most amount of money a trading position can lose
on 95 percent of the trading days, when the corporate and
investment bank took over most of the credit book from the chief
investment office last year. That change last year reduced
JPMorgan’s estimated risk by 24 percent to $115 million in the
third quarter.  JPMorgan’s switch of risk models in January of last year
may have helped fuel the trading loss at the chief investment
office, Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  told the Senate
Banking Committee in June. Dimon said last May that the bank had
reviewed the effectiveness of that VaR model, deemed it
“inadequate” and decided to return to the previous version.
Restoring the use of the earlier model meant the risk was twice
what the bank had reported in April of 2012.  CIO’s Losses  The January 2012 switch and the timing of the firm’s
disclosures are the focus of an  inquiry  by the Securities and
Exchange Commission as the U.S. examines how long executives
knew about the CIO’s swelling bets and losses.  Dimon told lawmakers in June that the models “never are
totally accurate in capturing changes in business,
concentration, liquidity or geopolitics.” JPMorgan uses data
going back one year, Dimon has said, so the VaR figure might
fall just because a volatile week was no longer included in the
calculation.  JPMorgan slipped 0.6 percent to $49.02 at 10:41 a.m. in  New
York . The bank said today that first-quarter profit rose 33
percent on cost cuts and an improvement in  consumer credit  that
allowed the bank to reduce loan-loss reserves.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  