-- JSW Steel to Refinance Rupee Debt With Cheaper Dollar Loans
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-04-12T07:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/jsw-steel-to-refinance-rupee-debt-with-cheaper-dollar-loans.html
JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) ,  India ’s third-
largest producer, plans to refinance as much as 55 billion
rupees ($1 billion) of loans with dollar debt this year  to
lower interest costs.  The steelmaker, owned by the billionaire Jindal family,
plans to replace the rupee equivalent of $600 million of debt
raised by unit  JSW Ispat Ltd. (JSWI)  this quarter and the remaining
later this year, Group Chief Financial Officer Seshagiri Rao
said in an interview in Mumbai. The move will help the company
cut interest costs by more than 100 basis points from 11 percent
to 12 percent at present, Rao said. A basis point is 0.01
percentage points.  Cheaper dollar loans and policy initiatives by the central
bank to increase the maximum amount of foreign loans an Indian
company can raise, is attracting JSW Steel, Reliance Industries
Ltd. and Indian Oil Corp. to seek funds overseas.  The  Reserve Bank  of India on Sept. 11 increased the maximum
amount of external commercial borrowings a domestic company can
raise to 75 percent of the average foreign-exchange earned in
the preceding three years or 50 percent of the highest foreign
exchange earnings realized in any of the preceding three years,
whichever is higher.  “There is a lot of liquidity and yields are coming down
making it very attractive,” Rao said. “I believe we won’t need
hedging since ours is a commodity-based company where purchases
and sales are linked to the dollar.”  Bengal Plant  The Mumbai-based steelmaker has delayed raising funds for
its $3 billion steel project in the eastern state of West Bengal
for lack of assured raw material supply, Rao said.  The company in 2012 got land and all approvals for the 3
million-metric ton steel factory, which has been delayed by more
than six years.  “We have the land needed for the project but the problem
is in ensuring iron ore supplies for the plant, which I don’t
know when we will get,” Rao said. “The financial closure for
the project can’t be achieved unless we ensure iron ore
supplies, so we don’t face problems that we are facing in
Karnataka.”  India’s top court in August 2011 banned mining of the
steelmaking ingredient in the southern state of Karnataka and
allowed only state-owned  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC) , India’s biggest ore miner,
to mine in the province leading to shortages of the raw
material. The  Supreme Court  also ordered the sale of all ore
only in an online auction.  JSW had planned to start construction of the West Bengal
project by October after securing $2 billion in debt funding,
Rao had said in an interview in April last year. In Karnataka,
it runs a 10 million ton plant, without a long-term agreement
for ore supplies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  