-- Just Energy Says Dividend Safe Amid Expansion Plans
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r   a n d   D i v y a   B a l j i
-- 2013-04-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/just-energy-says-dividend-safe-amid-expansion-plans.html
Just Energy Group Inc. (JE)  said rising
cashflow means it won’t have to make further cuts to its
dividend, the second-highest among  Canada ’s largest companies.  “We changed it in February so we think it is very safe for
a long period of time,” Ken Hartwick, chief executive officer
of  North America ’s second largest residential  energy-retailer ,
said in an interview in Bloomberg’s Toronto office on April 4.  Just Energy’s shares have  plunged  31 percent since the
Mississauga, Ontario-based company announced the 32 percent
dividend cut on Feb. 7. Some investors are concerned the company
won’t be able to fund both its expansion and a dividend yield
that still stands at 12 percent, behind only  Chorus Aviation
Inc. (CHR/B)  in the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite index, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  If things don’t go according to plan, Just Energy may have
to “sacrifice growth to fix the balance sheet, sacrifice growth
to fund the dividend, or decide to slash the dividend and focus
on balance sheet and growth,” said Trevor Johnson, a Toronto-
based analyst at National Bank Financial Group, who rates the
company the equivalent of a hold, said by phone on April 5.  Just Energy, fell 0.4 percent to C$6.79 at the close in
Toronto yesterday for a market value of C$962.1 million ($951.8
million). It has declined 28 percent this year. The share price
drop and speculation of further payout reductions prompted the
company to issue a March 25 statement that it didn’t expect
further dividend changes, despite “rumors in the market.”  Adding Customers  Just Energy’s expansion is the path to future dividend,
Hartwick, 50, said. The company has added customers during the
past two years at more than twice the pace of five years ago,
according to a company presentation at Bloomberg’s office.  Its 4.3 million residential and commercial customers in six
Canadian provinces and 13 U.S. states have locked in multiyear
natural gas and electricity prices. Most contracts become
profitable after the first year, the CEO said. Including the
average amount of people who opt out of their contracts early,
the company predicted at the end of the last quarter it would
have C$2.2 billion coming in so-called embedded margin during
the next five years.  “That is margin we’re just going to realize by work we’ve
already done,” Hartwick said. “We don’t have to grow any more,
we don’t have to do anything.”  With about 4 percent market share in North America, Just
Energy has plenty of room to grow, including in the U.K. where
it had 10,000 customers at year-end and is expanding, Hartwick
said. The company can boost its customer base in the “high
single digits, low-double digits for the foreseeable future,”
he said.  Payout Ratio  “We could double the business and we don’t have to worry
about running out of customers in the next 10 years,” the CEO
said. Just Energy is the second biggest energy retailer in North
America after Direct Energy, a unit of  Centrica Plc. (CNA)   In  February , it said that dividend payments exceeded funds
from operations for the 2013 fiscal year ended March 31. Cutting
the dividend would reduce the payout ratio to between 60 and 65
percent by 2016 from 172 percent, the company said.  Just Energy has C$1.06 billion of  debt  outstanding,
including C$126 million of bonds coming due in 2014. The company
reported a loss of C$126.5 million in 2012 compared with profit
of C$355.1 million in 2011 as sales fell 5.6 percent to C$2.79
billion.  The current payout ratio, or the percentage of the
company’s earnings shareholders receive in cash dividends, is
108 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with 127 percent at Chorus, 404 percent at Canadian
Pacific Railways Ltd. and and 1,552 percent at  Pengrowth Energy
Corp. (PGF) , the highest in the S&P/TSX Composite index.  Cash Flow  Just Energy is expected to maintain its dividend at 84
cents for the next three years, according to  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg.  The company has the  cash flow  to support the current
dividend and will need to increase its net customer base by
about 6 percent to achieve the 65 percent target payout ratio,
Nelson Ng, a Vancouver-based analyst for RBC Capital Markets
LLC, said in a March 14 note.  Just Energy’s high dividend is a legacy of the company’s
previous incarnation as an income trust, a tax structure that
allowed it to distribute most of its funds to shareholders in
monthly payouts. The Canadian government shut down the structure
in 2006, forcing companies to convert to  dividend-paying 
corporations.  Income Seekers  “Their historic shareholder base is one which is often a
retail client and pensions and has a very strong desire to
receive a dividend,” said David Lieberman, who helps manage
$500 million including Just Energy stock at  Hasbrouck Heights ,
New Jersey-based Advisors Capital Management LLC.  Lieberman said he’d like to see further dividend cuts by
Just Energy to boost growth “but frankly if they did that it
would probably hurt the share price.” He doesn’t predict
another dividend cut any time soon.  Just Energy requires upfront capital to fuel growth, as
most of the costs associated with a new contract come at the
signing date, according to a company presentation. Marketing
costs are incurred to sell new contracts and the company has a
practice of buying all the electricity or natural gas needed for
the life of a contract at the outset to make margins immune to
shifting commodity prices. A new residential customer contract
takes a year to break even and turns a profit in the following
years, according to a  company presentation .  Four Percent  Just Energy  is expanding into other businesses, selling
energy from renewable resources and offering customers the
ability to rent energy efficient water heaters, furnaces and air
conditioners.  With North American gas prices reaching a 10-year low last
year, customers may be less inclined to lock in a long-term
supply contract, said  Barry Schwartz , who helps manage C$500
million as a Toronto-based  fund manager  for Baskin Financial
Services Inc.  “This business model works in a high-inflation, high-
input-price environment and we’re not in that type of
environment,” said Schwartz, who doesn’t own Just Energy’s
stock and has been a customer of the company.  Hartwick said low gas prices are not ideal. The contracts
become more attractive as commodity prices get volatile, he
said.  “We’re very comfortable with the business strategy, very
comfortable with our growth,” said Hartwick. “The market says,
ok, just show us that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  