-- Jason Day Takes Masters Lead Into Third Round
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-13T04:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/kuchar-gets-within-one-of-masters-leader-leishman-as-scores-rise.html
Jason Day will take a one-shot lead
into the third round at golf’s Masters Tournament, where  Tiger Woods  is three strokes back and 14-year-old Tianlang Guan is the
youngest player to make the cut for weekend play in one of the
sport’s four major championships.  Day is 6 under par through 36 holes after shooting
yesterday’s best round, a 4-under-par 68 at Augusta National
Golf Club in Augusta, Georgia. The 2011 Masters runner-up is one
shot ahead of fellow Australian Marc Leishman and 53-year-old
American  Fred Couples , the 1992 Masters champion.  While Woods remains the oddsmakers’ favorite to win, a pair
of major winners and the U.S. PGA Tour’s 2012 FedEx Cup champion
are two shots back.  Angel Cabrera  of Argentina, the 2009 Masters
winner, birdied five of his final six holes yesterday to get to
4 under par with Americans  Brandt Snedeker  and  Jim Furyk , the
2003 U.S. Open winner.  “The moment I start worrying about other players is the
moment I start losing focus on what I need to do, and when I do
that, I’ll start making bogeys,” said Day, who tees off today
at 2:45 p.m. local time with Couples. “I’m very excited for the
challenge over the next two days.”  Since 2000, the only two players who held at least a share
of the second-round lead and went on to win the Masters were
 Mike Weir  in 2003 and  Trevor Immelman  in 2008.  Bad Break  Woods, a four-time Masters champion seeking his first major
title since 2008, heads to the weekend tied for seventh place at
3 under par after a bad break knocked him out of a share of the
lead. He was in a four-way tie atop the leaderboard with six
holes remaining when his third shot on the par-5 13th hole
ricocheted off the flag stick and into the pond in front of the
green, turning a potential birdie into a bogey.  “I felt I played really well and had a round that should
have been in the 60s,” Woods said after a 1-under-par 71. “My
score doesn’t quite indicate how well I played.”  Woods is in a group of seven players at 3 under and is
scheduled to tee off today in a pairing with Spain’s Gonzalo Fernandez-Castano at 1:45 p.m. Also at 3 under are  Adam Scott  of
Australia,  Jason Dufner  of the U.S., K.J. Choi of South Korea
and Englishmen  David Lynn ,  Lee Westwood  and  Justin Rose .  Rory McIlroy of Northern Ireland, who is second in the
Official World Golf Ranking to Woods, is among those at 2 under
par after shooting rounds of 72 and 70. He closed the second
round with three birdies over the final six holes and tees off
today at 1:25 p.m. with Charl Schwartzel, who’s also 2 under.  Guan Advances  Guan, the Chinese amateur who is the youngest player in a
major golf championship in 148 years, made the cut at 4 over par
even though he was penalized a stroke for slow play on his next-
to-last hole yesterday. Day missed birdie chances on the final
two holes that could have bumped the cut to 3 over and knocked
out both Guan and defending champion Bubba Watson.  A total of 61 players qualified for the final two rounds by
being within 10 shots of the lead. Guan has a 9:45 a.m. tee
time, while Watson is scheduled to go off solo to begin the
third round at 9:25 a.m.  Watson, who is also 4 over par, avoided becoming the first
defending Masters champion to miss the cut since Weir in 2004.
Players who missed the cut included  Graeme McDowell ,  Webb Simpson ,  Ian Poulter ,  Padraig Harrington  and  Hunter Mahan .  Tough Scoring  On a day where gusting winds, early-morning rain and
challenging pin placements led 68 of 93 players to shoot par or
higher in the second round, Day birdied four of the final nine
holes to climb atop the leaderboard. He took the outright lead
with a curling six-foot birdie putt on the par-3 16th hole.  After tying for second behind Schwartzel at the Masters two
years ago, Day in 2012 had to withdraw from the tournament
because of an ankle injury, limping off the course eight holes
into the second round.  “The injury was disappointing, but it’s really good to be
back here and being on top of the leaderboard is a great
honor,” said Day, who is seeking to become the first Australian
to win the Masters. “I’m really looking forward to getting out
there the next two days and playing well.”  Day is listed as the 6-1 second-favorite to win the
Masters, according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book. Woods
remains the favorite with 9-4 odds.  Day’s playing partner today, Couples, is 5 under through 36
holes for the second year in a row. Couples last year started
the third round with consecutive bogeys en route to a 75. He
trailed by six shots entering the final round and closed with a
72 to tie for 12th.  ‘Another Run’  “I would like to have another run,” said Couples, who was
tied with Dufner at this point a year ago. “Last year, both
Jason and I, we struggled right off the bat and we really were a
non factor on Saturday and that was not really much fun.
Hopefully (today) will be a little different and I’ll play well
and have a shot at Sunday. That’s my goal.”  Like Woods,  Dustin Johnson  and  Sergio Garcia  were among
those who stumbled after sitting atop the leaderboard during the
second round. Johnson was 7 under par before playing the final
five holes in 6 over. He double-bogeyed the 15th and 18th in
shooting a 76 that left him 1 under par for the tournament.  Garcia, after a first-round 66, also had a 76 yesterday
that included three balls hit into water hazards over the final
nine holes. He’s at 2 under heading to the weekend.  Three-time Masters champion  Phil Mickelson  is 3 over par
after a second-round 76 and is tied for 48th place. A day after
saying he expected the course to be a “birdie-fest,” Mickelson
had five bogeys and a double-bogey. Mickelson will tee off at
10:25 a.m. today.  “You’re never out on this tournament,” Mickelson said.
“I’ve got a little bit of work to do, it doesn’t feel far off.
If I can get a couple to fall and hit a few more good shots, I
think that I have something in the mid 60s, which I will need to
get back in it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Augusta, Georgia at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  