-- Kuroda Says Bank of Japan Won’t Limit Easing to Two Years
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-04-12T04:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/kuroda-says-bank-of-japan-won-t-limit-easing-to-two-years.html
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said the
 Bank of Japan (8301)  will not set a time limit for easing and will
continue until it achieves sustainable inflation.  “It is not appropriate to say that the monetary easing
will only last for two years,” Kuroda  said  in a speech in Tokyo
today. “The bank will continue with monetary easing, aiming to
achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, as long as it
is necessary.”  The yen weakened to the lowest level since April 2009
yesterday after Kuroda said this week he had taken all necessary
measures for now to achieve 2 percent inflation in two years.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. boosted its outlook on Japanese shares
on the Bank of  Japan ’s “credible commitment” to beat
deflation, with the Nikkei 225 Stock Average up almost 30
percent this year.  “In our view, the latest decisions include all the
necessary measures to achieve the 2 percent target” within two
years, Kuroda said today. The bank “will not hesitate to make
adjustments as appropriate.”  At his first policy meeting, Kuroda pledged last week to
double the monetary base in two years by buying about 7.5
trillion yen of bonds a month, equivalent to about 70 percent of
new government bond issuances. Such unprecedented asset
purchases have increased volatility in the market.  The yield on the 10-year bond touched a record low of 0.315
percent on April 5, the day after the BOJ’s policy announcement,
and then surged to almost double that level in the same session.
Also that day, shifts in bond futures triggered circuit breakers
on the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange.  Benchmark 10-year bond yields were 0.585 percent at 1:18
p.m. in Tokyo. The yen was at 99.47 per dollar, down about 13
percent for the year.  In an effort to explain the new policy, the BOJ held a
meeting with representatives of financial institutions yesterday
and separately announced schedules of bond auctions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  