-- N.J. Democrats Plan to Propose Instant Gun-Buyer Checks
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-04-12T22:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/n-j-democrats-plan-to-propose-instant-gun-buyer-checks.html
New Jersey  would create a first-in-
the-nation electronic system for instant background checks of
gun buyers, under firearms-safety bills Senate President Stephen Sweeney announced.  Sweeney, along with Senate Majority Leader Loretta Weinberg
of Teaneck and Senator Donald Norcross, from Camden, will
introduce the bills April 15 in the state Senate. All three are
Democrats and their party controls the state legislature.  A  task force  commissioned by Governor  Chris Christie , a
Republican seeking re-election this year, released a report
April 10 that recommended requiring gun owners to renew their
identification cards periodically and give them up following a
criminal conviction. The governor has said he was reviewing the
report and plans to release his own proposals in about a week.  “We all want the same thing: to provide safety and
protection for our friends and family,” Sweeney, from West
Deptford, said today in a statement. “These bills will do just
that, both through common-sense and new, innovative measures.”  The central component of the Democrats’ plan will be the
system that facilitates background checks for buyers in
all firearms purchases, Sweeney said. The system would combine
licensing for handguns and hunting rifles and encode information
from drivers’ licenses or state-issued identification in order
to immediately spot those who aren’t permitted to own a weapon.  Rifle Ban  The Democrats also would ban .50-caliber Barrett “assault
weapon,” crack down on illegal gun trafficking and prohibit
sales to those on the federal no-fly list, according to the
 statement . Sweeney said they would also require immediate
revocation of gun permits from those convicted of a crime or for
those involuntarily committed.  The bills also would deal with mental-health issues and
school safety, according to the statement. The Democrats also
would require a firearms identification card to buy ammunition
and mandate a training course for those who want to obtain a gun
permit, and exempt firearms records from public view.  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, didn’t
immediately respond to a telephone call or e-mail seeking
comment on the measures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  