-- N.J. Plans 15-Year Lottery Sales Accord With Northstar
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-04-12T21:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/n-j-plans-15-year-lottery-sales-accord-with-northstar.html
New Jersey  plans to award a 15-year
lottery marketing contract to Northstar, a business partnership,
in a move that may raise state revenue as much as $6.88 billion
beyond what it might get by retaining current management.  The partnership will make an upfront payment of $120
million once the contract is signed, under terms announced today
by the New Jersey Treasury Department. The agency said the
venture has committed to generating at least $1.42 billion more
in net income for the state over the accord’s life than would
have been collected from the gaming operation with no change.  “For more than 40 years, the Lottery has provided critical
financial support to New Jersey’s institutions and educational
programs,” Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff said in the
announcement. The agreement with Northstar New Jersey Lottery
Group will position the operation “for sustained growth and
continued success in the face of an increasingly complex and
competitive marketplace,” he said.  In New Jersey’s fiscal 2012, which ended in June, the
lottery had $2.76 billion in revenue and produced $950 million
in income for the state, according to the Treasury announcement.
It said the Northstar group may produce an increase in the
state’s take of as much as $6.88 billion over the life of the
agreement, which involves sales and marketing for the operation.  Partners Listed  The partners that make up the Northstar group were
identified as Gtech Corp. of Providence,  Rhode Island ,  New York- 
based  Scientific Games Corp. (SGMS) , and a unit of the Ontario
Municipal Employees Retirement System, based in Toronto.
Scientific Games is 38 percent  owned  by billionaire investor Ron Perelman.  Bob Vincent, a Gtech spokesman, said the new venture is
“grateful” for the contract. He declined to comment on the
company’s plans, saying the deal has yet to be consummated.  Since it began in 1970, New Jersey’s lottery has provided
more than $20 billion in support for state institutions and
educational programs. In the 2012 fiscal year, lottery revenue
totaled $2.76 billion and it contributed $950 million to state
coffers, according to Sidamon-Eristoff’s statement.  With the deal, Republican Governor  Chris Christie ’s
administration joins Ohio, Pennsylvania and  Indiana  in seeking
to put public assets under private management to maximize
profits. In  Illinois , where Northstar runs the state lottery,
revenue fell $100 million below promised levels, according to an
analysis by the  Chicago Tribune . An arbitrator ruled in November
that the shortfall stemmed from state decisions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 