-- Natural Gas Futures May Decline on Milder Weather, Survey Shows
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2013-04-12T11:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/natural-gas-futures-may-decline-on-milder-weather-survey-shows.html
Natural gas futures may decline
next week as moderating weather cuts demand for the heating
fuel, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Seven of 12 analysts, or 58 percent, forecast that gas
futures will fall on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through
April 19. Three, or 25 percent, said futures will stay the same
and two predicted that prices will rise. Last week, 53 percent
of participants said  gas prices  would drop. Gas has climbed 24
percent this year as cold winter weather spurred demand.  Temperatures will be mostly normal in the Northeast and
Great Lakes region from April 16 through April 20, according to
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland . The low in
Cleveland on April 17 may be 43 degrees Fahrenheit (6 Celsius),
matching the usual reading,  AccuWeather Inc .’s website showed.  “It’s warmer, there’s less demand and power generation
appears to be lower,” said Gordy Elliott, a risk-management
specialist at INTL FCStone Inc. in  St. Louis Park ,  Minnesota .
“This rally has been significant and we are due for a
breather.”  Natural gas for May delivery climbed 1.4 cents, or 0.3
percent, to settle at $4.139 per million British thermal units
in the first four days of trading this week on the New York
exchange.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex natural-gas futures will
probably rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This
week’s results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  2     7         3  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in  New York  at 
 Cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  