-- Nissan Hires Ram CEO for Brand in U.S.; Castignetti Exits
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-04-12T21:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/nissan-hires-ram-ceo-for-brand-in-u-s-castignetti-exits.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , with U.S. sales
lagging the industry’s rebound this year, said it hired a former
Chrysler Group LLC executive to run its namesake brand in the
country after the departure of a long-time sales official.  Fred Diaz, 47, formerly president and chief executive
officer of Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler’s Ram brand and
Mexican unit, will be vice president of U.S. sales and marketing
for the Nissan brand, according to an e-mailed statement
yesterday. Diaz, who spent 24 years at Chrysler begins May 1 and
the position is new, said Travis Parman, a Nissan spokesman.  Al Castignetti , who had been vice president of sales for
the brand since 2008, resigned yesterday to “pursue interests
outside the company,”  Brian Brockman , a spokesman for the
Yokohama, Japan-based company, said in a phone interview.  Nissan’s U.S. sales, including its Infiniti luxury brand,
slid 1.3 percent in the first quarter even as industrywide
light-vehicle deliveries rose 6.4 percent, according to
researcher Autodata Corp. While the company’s Altima sedan, was
the best-selling car in the U.S. last month, the model fell to
third place in the quarter from second a year earlier, trailing
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Camry and  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s new Accord
sedan.  “Nissan is losing market share right now and that’s a
situation  Carlos Ghosn  must find intolerable,” said  Rebecca Lindland , an analyst with Rebel Three Media & Consultants, based
in Cos Cob, Connecticut. “This market is cutthroat, and
manufacturers can’t afford to lose momentum, to lose time.”  Ghosn’s Confidence  Ghosn, chief executive officer of both Nissan and alliance
partner  Renault SA (RNO) , in an interview last month said he was
confident in the potential of the new Altima, redesigned last
year, and Nissan’s U.S. sales officials.  “I trust that the team would know how to position it in
the United States to get the kind of return that we’re expecting
from this car,” Ghosn said March 27 at the New York auto show.
“And sooner more than later it will show up in the market.”  Jose Munoz, senior vice president of North American sales
for Nissan Motor, will oversee the Nissan brand on an interim
basis until Diaz begins, Parman said. Munoz was promoted to the
regional management post in December to replace Brian Carolin.  Chrysler declined to comment on Diaz’s departure, Jodi
Tinson, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The North American unit of Japan’s second-largest automaker
is based in Franklin, Tennessee, near Nashville. Nissan’s
American depositary receipts rose less than 0.1 percent to
$20.96 at the close in New York. The shares have gained 9.78
percent this year, trailing the S&P 500’s 11 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  