-- Norway Will Vote on Plan to Ban Merchant Power Links, U.K. Cable
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2013-04-12T12:53:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/norway-will-vote-on-plan-to-ban-merchant-power-links-u-k-cable.html
Norway  plans to grant state-owned
grid operator Statnett SF ownership of cross-border electricity
cables after companies including  Vattenfall  AB said the proposal
would hamper the development of links.  The government today submitted the amendment to parliament
to ensure Statnett can control flows, it said in an e-mailed
statement. That effectively bans so-called merchant, or
privately owned, cross-border cables.  The proposal has been open for public  consultation  since
September, drawing criticism from Vattenfall’s Northconnect
project and Energy Norway, the country’s power industry
association, as well as opposition political parties. The plan
would improve  energy security  and make the electricity grid more
efficient, the government said today.  “I am concerned about the overall management of the power-
transmission grid,” Oil and Energy Minister Ola Borten Moe said
in the statement. Giving Statnett control of power links will
“help coordinate power imports and exports between Norway and
other countries,” he said.  Planned merchant cable projects include the 1,400-megawatt
Northconnect between Norway and the U.K. to be built by
Vattenfall, E-CO Energi AS, Agder Energi AS and Lyse Energi AS.
Statnett and the U.K.’s National Grid Plc are planning a
separate 1,400-megawatt cable linking the countries that would
also be completed by 2020.  “The government aims to pass the law before the summer,”
Odd Oeygarden, chairman of the Northconnect owners group, said
today by telephone from Kristiansand, Norway. “We will not give
up on the project, but instead continue to follow further
developments and study the details of the proposal, as well as
the impact on NorthConnect.”  Nordlink, NorGer  Separately, Statnett and TenneT Holding BV plan to build a
1,400-megawatt undersea cable from  Germany  to Norway by 2018,
called Nordlink. Together with the cable to the U.K., it is
intended to allow Norway to export excess hydropower output and
allow Germany and the U.K. to offset intermittent production
from wind and solar power, according to the  company .  Within 10 years of the completion of Nordlink, Statnett
will build another 1,400-megawatt cable to Germany, called
NorGer, the company said on March 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  