-- Obama Tax Cap Seen Slowing Issuance From 2010 High: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-04-12T00:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/obama-tax-cap-seen-slowing-issuance-from-2010-high-muni-credit.html
Sugar Land,  Texas , plans to pump
$50 million into new parks around the city of 85,000, just the
kind of project President  Barack Obama  wants to revitalize the
U.S. economy by spurring investment in aging infrastructure.  Yet the Houston suburb would have to scale back that work,
along with fixes to streets and buildings, if lawmakers adopt
the president’s proposal to limit the century-old exemption on
interest from municipal debt. The step was one of the Democrat’s
ideas to generate revenue to curb the federal deficit, and was
part of his fiscal 2014 budget released this week.  From  Portland ,  Oregon , to Columbia, South Carolina, local
officials said the policy would lift property taxes and utility
rates, and curb issuance even as municipal interest rates are
below their five-decade  average . The recommendation for a 28
percent cap on income-tax deductions for the wealthiest
households would boost tax-exempt yields as much as 0.7
percentage point, according to Citigroup Inc.  “It’s kind of ironic, encouraging communities to invest in
infrastructure, but then you’re going to take away the benefit
of our tax exemption,” Jennifer Brown, director of budget and
research in Sugar Land, said in an interview. “It just ends up
costing the local communities more.”  Infrastructure Gap  As states and cities repair their finances after the
longest recession since the 1930s, they’re also taking on
projects to alleviate a $1.6 trillion U.S. infrastructure gap.  Sixty percent of cities expect to increase investment in
roads, bridges and schools this year, up from 35 percent in
2011, according to a National League of Cities survey. Yet 61
percent also said they’d cut the number of capital projects if a
limit on munis’ tax-exemption were imposed.  Municipalities have sold $85 billion of long-term, fixed-
rate debt this year, ahead of the pace last year, when they
issued the most since 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Obama proposed spending $50 billion on new infrastructure
projects. He asked Congress to create a national infrastructure
bank and recommended a program called America Fast Forward
Bonds. The debt would be similar to taxable Build America Bonds
issued by localities in 2009 and 2010, and would pay as much as
50 percent of the interest on borrowings to build schools.  Cost Climb  States and cities have borrowed $2.3 trillion in the past
10 years through the muni market for new projects, according to
Matt Posner, legislative coordinator for Concord, Massachusetts-
based Municipal Market Advisors.  The NLC estimated it would have cost cities an extra $173
billion over the past decade to finance the same initiatives if
the tax cap were in place.  As it stands, the cap would apply to previously issued
debt, not just issuance after such legislation is enacted.  “If you’re really interested in infrastructure, why would
you tamper with that?” Posner, who’s based in New York, said in
an interview. For investors, “there’s trust that when the
broker sold you bonds, you’re buying an exempt product that will
remain exempt. Dependency and permanency are things that markets
trade on.”  The president “would not support anything that only had
provisions that led to states and local governments being in
more negative position to invest in the modern infrastructure
our economy needs for both jobs and our future
competitiveness,”  Amy Brundage , a White House spokeswoman, said
in an e-mail.  Issuance Plan  Some officials say a tax change wouldn’t halt issuance.  The cap “in reality wouldn’t stop us from coming to
market,” said Tim Ewell, senior deputy county administrator in
Contra Costa County,  California . Still, the locality may have to
reduce service levels to make up for higher interest costs, he
said in an interview.  Investors saw just four months ago how the risk of a tax
change can roil the market. Local debt lost 1.6 percent in
December, the biggest slump in two years, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data. Individuals dumped munis in the
second half of the month on concern that the tax exemption would
be part of a deal to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff of tax
increases and spending cuts.  Top-rated munis such as those issued by Sugar Land would
become less valuable to the wealthiest buyers under Obama’s
proposal. Benchmark 10-year munis yield 1.79 percent, Bloomberg
 data  show. For investors in the top tax bracket, that’s
equivalent to about a 3 percent taxable yield. That rate would
drop to about 2.5 percent under a 28 percent cap.  Previous Threat  The threat to the municipal-bond tax exemption isn’t new.
In 2010, Obama’s deficit-cutting commission proposed doing away
with it as part of an overhaul to lower income-tax rates and
raise government revenue. In 2011, the president also suggested
capping the benefit for top earners.  Neither plan advanced in Congress. On Wall Street, analysts
such as  George Friedlander , chief muni strategist at Citigroup,
said the tax-free status of muni interest could be  targeted  by
both Republicans and Democrats as part of revamping the tax
code. Proposals are now being crafted by committees in both
houses of Congress.  House Republican leader Eric Cantor indicated support for
the tax-exemption, while 14 senators sent a letter to Obama on
April 2 saying his proposals would add to the burden on
localities. At a House hearing in March, both Republicans and
Democrats expressed concern that changes to the exemption could
cost local governments.  Cantor’s Stance  Cantor’s comments are the most meaningful because he’s most
likely to have a major part in tax overhaul negotiations, said
Michael Zezas, head of municipal strategy at Morgan Stanley in
New York. The remarks led him to reduce the probability of a
change to the exemption to 20 percent from 25 percent.  The mayor of Columbia, South Carolina, said that costs from
a tax cap would trickle down from the wealthiest 2 percent to
residents through higher taxes or water bills.  “There is this view that it’s a rich man’s loophole,”
said Steve Benjamin, the Democratic mayor. The city is spending
$100 million a year to upgrade its water and sewer system.
“It’s not -- it’s a sacred partnership. And once we begin to
disrupt it, who knows what happens next?”  About 1,000 miles (1,609 kilometers) southwest in Sugar
Land, the city will ask voters in November to approve park
projects for hiking, festivals and sports. Officials have
pledged not to raise property taxes by more than 5 cents for the
initiative.  5 Cents  “The 5-cent increase just wouldn’t buy as much, so we’d
have to cut back on our projects,” said Brown, the budget and
research director. “We’ll have to evaluate what we can
afford.”  Localities are wrapping up the biggest week of issuance
this year, selling about $10.8 billion, Bloomberg data show.
Supply is poised to shrink to about $6.6 billion next week.  Even with the sales wave,  yields  on benchmark 10-year munis
have fallen to the lowest since January, as investor selling
related to tax season wanes.  The rally has driven muni yields to about even with those
on federal debt for the first time in a month. The  ratio  of
local yields to those on Treasuries is about 100 percent, the
lowest since March 12. The smaller the percentage, the more
expensive munis are relative to federal securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  