-- Tombini and Mantega Signal Brazil to Raise Key Rate Soon
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-04-12T17:52:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/tombini-and-mantega-signal-brazil-to-raise-key-rate-soon.html
Brazil ’s central bank President
Alexandre Tombini and Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  signaled
that policy makers will raise the benchmark rate soon as
inflation accelerates above the bank’s target range. Swap rates
jumped.  “There is not and there won’t be tolerance of inflation,”
Tombini told reporters in Rio de Janeiro. “We are closely
monitoring all indicators and in the future will make decisions
on the best course for monetary policy.”  Brazil is ready to take necessary steps, including higher
rates, to control inflation, Mantega said earlier today at an
event in Sao Paulo. There is no need to slow growth to control
price increases, Mantega added.  “This is a clear signal that the probability of an April
rate hike is a lot higher,”  Tony Volpon ,  head of research for
the Americas at Nomura Securities, said in a telephone interview
from  New York . “The word ’closely’ seals the deal.”  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration is under renewed
pressure to slow inflation after annualized price increases  in
March  breached the upper limit of the central bank’s target
range for the first time since November 2011. Recent indicators
show that the highest annual inflation levels in 16 months may
be reducing purchasing power, as both industrial production and
retail sales declined in February. Traders this week increased
bets that policy makers will raise  interest rates  at the April
16-17 monetary policy meeting.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2014, the most
traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose 21 basis points, or 0.21
percentage point, to 8.13 percent at 2:45 p.m. local time. The
real strengthened 0.4 percent to 1.9677 per dollar.  Inflation Jump  Annual inflation in the world’s second-largest emerging
market jumped to 6.59 percent in March from 6.31 percent the
month prior. The central bank targets inflation at 4.5 percent,
plus or minus two percentage points.  “The government gives great attention to control of
inflation, and we have been successful,” Mantega said today.
“The government has strong reasons to exert itself and not let
inflation rise. Inflation hinders investment and undertakings in
all productive sectors.”  Retail sales fell 0.4 percent in February on a drop in
supermarket purchases, the national statistics agency said
yesterday. Industrial output in the same month declined 2.5
percent, the biggest drop since December 2008.  Latin America’s largest economy expanded 0.9 percent last
year, the slowest pace in three years. Growth will rebound to at
least 3 percent this year, Mantega said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  