-- Morgan Stanley’s Ichikawa Sees BOJ Boosting Overseas Debt Demand
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2013-04-12T01:43:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/morgan-stanley-s-ichikawa-sees-boj-boosting-overseas-debt-demand.html
Tatsuo Ichikawa, the co-head of
fixed income in  Tokyo  at Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co.,
comments on market implications from the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s
decision last week to double monthly bond purchases.  Japanese investors may seek out French government debt and
U.S. mortgage-backed securities as the BOJ’s easing compresses
domestic yields, according to Ichikawa, who spoke in an
interview in Tokyo on April 10.  The yield on Japan’s 10-year  government bonds  touched a
record low of 0.315 percent on April 5 and then surged to almost
double that level in the same session. Ten-year French
 government securities  yielded 1.84 percent yesterday.  On investor flows:  “The BOJ’s bond purchases will tighten supply in the
domestic market and may force investors to look overseas.”  “Investors are favoring French government bonds which have
higher yields than German bunds and better fiscal standing than
Spain and  Italy .”  “U.S. mortgage-backed securities and Treasury notes up to
three and five years in maturity may also be bought.”  On volatility:  “While we are seeing volatility in the JGB market after
the BOJ decision, yields are unlikely to rise significantly in
the longer term as 60 to 70 percent of the debt issued will be
absorbed by the central bank.”  “In the domestic market, we have been recommending asset
swaps since last year as a good way to manage risk.”  “Volatility may increase when the BOJ starts to
contemplate an exit from stimulus, and swaptions are effective
to hedge against those risks in a few years’ time.”  Ichikawa worked for Morgan Stanley  Japan  between 1999 and
2005 before moving to ABN Amro Securities, which was
subsequently integrated into the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. He
rejoined Morgan Stanley Japan in 2009 to strengthen the firm’s
rate strategy and advisory services and was appointed co-head of
fixed income in Japan from January with Yukiko Hashimoto.  Hashimoto joined Morgan Stanley in 2008 as head of foreign-
exchange sales for the Asia Pacific region including Japan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  