-- House Votes to Shutter Labor Board Hobbled by Obama Recess Picks
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-04-12T16:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/house-votes-to-shutter-labor-board-hobbled-by-obama-recess-picks.html
The U.S. House passed Republican-
backed legislation that would shut the federal agency that
weighs disputes over labor law.  By a 219-209 vote, the House approved the measure that
would freeze the work of the  National Labor Relations Board 
until the Senate confirms all five members. Supporters said
shutting the board is justified following a January ruling by a
three-judge appeals court that three of President  Barack Obama ’s
appointments to the board without Senate confirmation were
“constitutionally invalid.”  “No one -- employer, worker or union -- can rely on a
board decision today,” Representative  John Kline , a Minnesota
Republican and head of the committee with oversight for labor
policy, said today during debate. Obama’s advisers would
recommend the president veto the bill if it passes Congress, the
Office of Management and Budget said on April 10.  The Obama administration has appealed the January decision
in a case brought by soft-drink bottler Noel Canning Corp. to
the Supreme Court. Employers, citing the ruling, have appealed
about 100 board rulings. Hundreds of orders, decisions and
routine actions by the board are subject to challenge.  “The majority is using this misguided bill in a
coordinated attack on the National Labor Relations Board, and on
America workers,” said Representative Rush Holt,  Democrat from
 New Jersey .  Recess Appointments  Three 2012 appointees were ruled invalid because Obama had
acted when the Senate wasn’t in recess, the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in  Washington  ruled Jan. 25. To prevent Obama from
making so-called recess appointments, House and Senate
Republicans refused to call a recess. The Senate then held pro-
forma sessions every few days that lasted less than 2 minutes.  None of Obama’s nominations were considered by the Senate,
said Representative Rob Andrews, a New Jersey Democrat.  The House bill would require the NLRB to “cease all
activity that requires a quorum of the members of the Board”
and block it from implementing or enforcing any decision taken
since Jan. 4, 2012, when Obama made the recess appointments. The
restrictions would end once the board has a quorum of members
confirmed by the Senate, the  Supreme Court  rules on the recess
appointments, or until the 113th Congress adjourns, which could
be as late as early January 2015.  The board currently has three members, all Democrats. Obama
has renominated the sitting members, plus two Republicans.  “Allowing the board to continue to issue decisions with
this cloud over its authority is inconsistent with the
principles of good government and undermines the rule of law,”
Fred Wszolek, spokesman for the Workforce Fairness Institute, a
business group that focuses on labor issues, said in a
statement.  The bill is H.R. 1120.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  