-- Pakistan Keeps Benchmark Rate Unchanged as Inflation Eases
-- B y   F a s e e h   M a n g i
-- 2013-04-12T21:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/pakistan-keeps-benchmark-rate-unchanged-as-inflation-eases.html
Pakistan ’s central bank left
interest rates unchanged after inflation eased to the lowest in
at least three and a half years.  The State Bank of Pakistan left the discount rate at 9.5
percent, the lowest level in five years, spokesman Inayat
Hussain told reporters in Karachi yesterday. All 20 analysts in
a Bloomberg News  survey  predicted the decision.  “It’s better to hold for now,” said Saad Khan, who helps
manage about 11 billion rupees ($112 million) at Askari
Investments Management Ltd. in Karachi. “The political
situation is unclear and foreign-exchange reserves are
depleting.”  The decision comes a month before Pakistan votes for a new
government that faces record power outages, falling foreign-
exchange reserves and a Taliban insurgency in the northwest. The
May 11 election will be the first time power is transferred
through the ballot in the nation that has been ruled by the army
for half its history.  The rupee has weakened by about 8 percent versus the dollar
in the past year, while foreign reserves have declined 21
percent to $11.8 billion in the year started July. A new
government will have to go to the International Monetary Fund
for a bailout to address its dwindling foreign-exchange
reserves, Standard & Poor’s said in a statement on April 4.  Pakistan is scheduled to repay about $7.5 billion to the
Washington-based IMF between 2012 and 2015, with $3.2 billion
paid as of Feb. 26, according to the central bank. A partially
disbursed $11.3 billion loan program expired in September 2011.  The nation’s consumer prices rose 6.57 percent in March,
the  slowest  since Bloomberg started tracking the data in 2009.  -- With assistance from Manish Modi in New Delhi. Editors:
Malcolm Scott, Sam Nagarajan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Faseeh Mangi in Karachi at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  