-- Paulson Loses More Than $300 Million as Gold Declines
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2013-04-13T08:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/paulson-loses-more-than-300-million-as-gold-falls.html
Billionaire John Paulson lost more
than $300 million of his personal wealth on his gold bet, as the
precious metal fell to its lowest price in almost two years.  Paulson has roughly $9.5 billion invested across his hedge
funds, of which about 85 percent is invested in gold share
classes. Gold dropped 4.1 percent yesterday, shaving about $328
million from his net worth on this bet alone.  Gold tumbled and entered a bear market after falling more
than 20 percent since August 2011, bringing more bad news for
57-year-old Paulson, who has struggled with poor returns for the
past two years. He told investors last year that his $700
million Gold Fund would beat his other strategies over five
years because the metal was the best hedge against inflation and
currency debasement as countries pump money into their
economies. The fund slumped 28 percent this year through March,
a person familiar with the matter said this month.  “The recent decline in gold prices has not changed our
long-term thesis,” John Reade, a partner and gold strategist at
Paulson & Co., said in an e-mailed statement. “We started
investing in gold at $900 in April 2009 and while it’s down from
its peak to $1500, it’s up considerably from our cost.”  Paulson investors can choose between dollar-and gold-
denominated versions for most of the firm’s funds. In addition
to losses from bullion’s decline, investors in Paulson & Co.
funds, including the firm’s founder, lost about $62 million
yesterday on their gold-stock investments, based on holdings as
of Dec. 31, 2012. New York-based Paulson & Co.’s biggest wagers
in miners include a 7.35 percent stake in  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)   ‘Printing Money’  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said this week that the turn in
the gold-price cycle is accelerating after a 12-year rally as
the recovery in the U.S. economy gains momentum. The bank
reduced forecasts for the metal through 2014.  Deutsche Bank AG cut its 2013 gold outlook this week by 12
percent, citing a strengthening dollar and a lack of haven
buying, and Societe Generale SA said in an April 2 report that
gold is in a “bubble.”  Paulson’s Reade said gold will continue to appreciate in
the long run because governments are pumping money into the
economy at a rate not seen before.  “Federal governments have been printing money at an
unprecedented rate,” said Reade. “We expect the strengthening
of the economy and stock market to cause money supply to rise
more than real growth and eventually lead to inflation. It is
this expectation of paper currency debasement which makes gold
an attractive long-term investment for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  