-- Philippine Peso Drops by Most in a Week on SDA Rate-Cut Outlook
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-04-12T08:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/philippine-peso-drops-by-most-in-a-week-on-sda-rate-cut-outlook.html
The Philippine peso fell by the
most in a week on speculation the central bank will reduce the
interest rate on its special-deposit accounts for a third time
this year, damping inflows. Government bonds due 2037 advanced.  The currency completed a second weekly decline after Bangko
Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco said last week the
option of reducing the rate it pays on 1.9 trillion pesos ($46
billion) in the SDAs will be retained. The central bank, which
reviews policy on April 25, is monitoring capital flows after
the  Philippines  achieved an investment-grade ranking from Fitch
Ratings last month, Tetangco said April 5.  “There are a lot of expectations that the BSP will make
another adjustment in the SDA rate this month,” said Emilio Neri, an economist at Bank of the Philippine Islands in  Manila .
“Also, some investors are taking profit on the attractive asset
prices in the Philippines.”  The peso declined 0.5 percent to 41.265 per dollar at the
close in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. That was the
biggest drop since April 4. It touched 41.315 on April 8, the
weakest level since Nov. 16, and has fallen 0.2 percent this
week. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, rose six basis
points to 4.84 percent.  Fitch raised the rating on the nation’s long-term foreign
currency-denominated debt one level to BBB- from BB+ on March 27.
The next day, Tetangco said the central bank is preparing to
announce a new set of “liberalization measures” to encourage
outflows as early as April.  The yield on 6.125 percent bonds due October 2037 fell five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.08 percent,
according to Tradition Financial Services. The rate rose eight
basis points this week and touched 3.71 percent on April 2, the
lowest level since the notes were sold in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  