-- Pimco Sees Hyperactive Aussie Easing Aiding AAA Gains
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-04-12T06:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/pimco-sees-hyperactive-easing-aiding-aaa-gains-australia-credit.html
Australian  government bonds  are
poised to extend the best rally among top-rated nations as local
policy makers cut  interest rates  in response to global monetary
easing, according to Pacific Investment Management Co.  “Hyperactive monetary policies underway across the vast
majority of the developed world” will keep the Australian
dollar strong,  Robert Mead , head of  portfolio management  at
Pimco’s Sydney office, said at the  Bloomberg Australia Economic
Summit  this week. “The escape valve becomes monetary policy
once again and that probably starts to show up sooner rather
than later.”  The country’s 10-year  yields  fell 31 basis points over the
past month to 3.31 percent, the biggest drop among 10 sovereign
markets with AAA scores from all three major ratings companies.
The notes offer more than twice the average for top-rated peers
even after the yield plunged 2.3 percentage points in two years.  The Aussie dollar reached a 28-year trade-weighted high
this week after the  Bank of Japan (8301)  surprised forecasters on April
4 by doubling monthly bond purchases to almost match the  Federal
Reserve ’s extraordinary monetary easing. The erosion in export
earnings, along with a slowdown in  China , will damp Australia’s
economy and pressure the  Reserve Bank  to cut rates to a record,
according to Pimco, which runs the world’s biggest bond fund.  28-Year High  The RBA’s  trade-weighted index , which tracks the so-called
Aussie dollar against the currencies of 21 nations that account
for at least 90 percent of the country’s commerce, rose to 80
yesterday, the highest since February 1985. The currency bought
$1.0551 as of 7:06 a.m. in  London , extending its record nine-
month run above parity with the greenback.  The Australian dollar’s strength has also helped boost
gains for bonds, pushing the benchmark  10-year yield  to 3.18
percent on April 8, the lowest level this year. Similar-dated
Norwegian debt has the second-highest rate among AAA rated notes
at 2.19 percent yesterday.  Bonds rallied globally after the BOJ’s announcement sent
 Japan ’s 10-year yield to a record-low 0.315 percent on April 5.  “It’s still primarily a yield story that’s attracting this
portfolio capital into  Australia ,” Ray Attrill, the Sydney-
based global co-head of currency strategy at National Australia
Bank Ltd., said at the Bloomberg summit this week. “Until that
advantageous yield differential, either in nominal terms or in
real terms, is going to seriously reverse, we shouldn’t be
realistic about thinking that we’re going to see a major
collapse in the Australian dollar.”  Central Banks  Three-quarters of 60 central banks polled in February said
they are investing in or may buy Australian dollars, Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc said April 7, citing a survey of officials
supervising a combined $6.7 trillion of reserves.  The Australian and Canadian dollars will be separately
identified in International Monetary Fund data on official
reserve holdings from the third quarter, the Washington-based
lender said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation
of Financial Analysts Societies show  Australian bonds  due in a
year or longer have climbed 0.5 percent since April 4, when BOJ
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda unveiled unprecedented stimulus
measures, including boosting monthly asset purchases to 7.5
trillion yen ($75 billion) and removing a limit on debt
maturities. Kuroda aligned with counterparts in the U.S., U.K.
and  Europe  in using unconventional policies to boost growth.  Governor Stevens  In contrast, RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  led the developed
world in raising rates after the 2009 global financial crisis,
before renewed turmoil prompted him to bring down borrowing
costs to match a half-century low of 3 percent.  Stevens and his board may be reluctant to take the
overnight cash-rate target below the current level, said Cameron Clyne, National Australia Bank’s chief executive officer.  “There is probably a bias to hold if they can,” Clyne
said yesterday in an interview. “They’ll want to see if they
need to keep moving down the stimulus path.”  The statistics bureau said yesterday the  unemployment rate 
climbed in March to a 3 1/2-year high of 5.6 percent after a
bigger-than-expected decline in payrolls. A private report
showed  consumer confidence  fell this month for the first time
since December, while government figures indicated larger-than-
forecast gains in building approvals and retail sales.  ‘Room to Cut’  “There’s room to cut should that be necessary,” RBA
Assistant Governor Christopher Kent said at the Bloomberg
summit. While there are some signs that previous rate reductions
are aiding the non-mining parts of the economy, “the peak in
resources investment is now close,” Kent said.  “Once it has passed, the decline in mining investment --
and the effect of the still high level of the  exchange rate  and
ongoing fiscal consolidation -- will weigh on economic growth.”  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 64 percent chance the cash rate will drop to at least an
all-time low of 2.75 percent by the central bank’s Sept. 3
gathering.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said her government’s
“tight” fiscal stance leaves room for the central bank to cut
interest rates.  Gillard’s Budget  “I don’t think our current fiscal position in any way
reduces the scope” for the RBA to lower borrowing costs,
Gillard, 51, said in an interview yesterday in her office in
Sydney, the nation’s business capital. “We are keeping a limit
on expenditure” and will move to a surplus over time, she said
ahead of the May 14 annual budget release.  Even after 1.75 percentage points of cuts since the
beginning of November 2011, Australia’s benchmark interest rate
remains the highest among major developed economies and compares
with a record-low 0.75 percent in the euro zone and near-zero
rates in the U.S. and Japan.  Pimco sees little chance of the RBA calling a halt to rate
cuts as it expects the economy will weaken because of the
strength of the Aussie dollar, the government’s commitment to
ending budget deficits and a slowdown in China, the nation’s
biggest trading partner.  “As the market flirts with ends of easing cycles, we think
that’s representing investment opportunities for Aussie
investors and the global investor base,” Mead said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  