-- Psy Shows Swiveling Hips in Gangnam Pony Dance Follow-Up
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-04-12T08:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/psy-shows-swiveling-hips-in-gangnam-pony-dance-follow-up.html
Psy, the South Korean rapper behind
the “Gangnam Style” worldwide smash hit that featured his
unique pony dance moves, is releasing his new single today to
119 countries.  Nine months after Gangnam was unveiled and became the most-
watched YouTube video of all time with more than 1.5 billion
views, the new “Gentleman” single was previewed first in  New
Zealand . The dance pop song will be released at midnight local
times in the different countries.  Similar to Gangnam, the new song matches a throbbing
electronic beat with catchy Korean lyrics, climaxing in a chorus
of “I’m a mother father gentleman.” The single is so far only
available as a digital download, and a music video will be
released some time after tomorrow’s concert, according to Hwang
Min Hee, a spokeswoman for Psy’s agency,  YG Entertainment Inc. (122870)   “We don’t have a specific viewership goal for the new
video at the moment,” Hwang said. “The audience will decide.”  Psy, a 35-year-old singer whose real name is Park Jae Sang,
revealed a teaser of his dance moves for the new song on his
Twitter account, showing swiveling hips.  The singer will perform the song live for the first time in
Seoul tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. local time in a  concert  for 50,000
fans that will be  streamed  on YouTube. Psy will tour in the U.S.
in April,  Europe  in May and  Asia  in June to promote the new
single, Hwang said.  Satirical Lyrics  Gangnam Style , which featured satirical lyrics about the
habits of wealthy South Koreans, propelled Psy to global fame,
earning him appearances on U.S. television programs including
“The Ellen DeGeneres Show” and NBC’s “Today Show,” and a
nomination for Time magazine’s 100 most influential people.  Advertising revenue from Psy’s YouTube clips is estimated
at 200 million won ($177,000) a month, including the licensing
fee that goes to  Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of YouTube, said Han Youp
Lee, an analyst at Samsung Securities Co.  Psy also appears in TV commercials in South Korea for
companies such as Samsung Electronics Co. and mobile carrier  LG
Uplus Corp. (032640)   YG Entertainment, which reports first-quarter earnings in
May, is up  21 percent  this year on the Korean stock exchange,
compared with a 11 percent gain in the Kosdaq index, where the
company is listed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Biggs at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net  