-- Putin Builds Space-Arms Defense as Russia Targets Mars, Moon
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-04-12T13:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/putin-builds-space-weapon-deterrent-as-russia-target-mars-moon.html
Russia ’s building a system to
neutralize space weapons as it prepares to send a man to Mars
and build a permanent moon base, President Vladimir Putin and
members of his government said.  Russia will have the technical means by 2030 to counteract
threats from space by other countries, Deputy Prime Minister
Dmitry Rogozin said at a government meeting near the country’s
new cosmodrome in the Far East today. Until then, Russia will
continue to expand its orbital capabilities to monitor potential
threats and prevent rocket attacks, Rogozin said.  “If someone ventures to break the tradition of keeping
space as a collaboration zone, then Russia will undoubtedly find
a technical response,” said Rogozin, Russia’s former envoy to
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Putin said he may create
a space ministry to help develop the industry.  Russia, which put the first man into space, Yuri Gagarin,
52 years ago today, plans to spend 1.6 trillion rubles ($52
billion) on its space industry in 2013-2020, including
completing the Vostochny cosmodrome near the border with  China .
Russia currently uses the Soviet-era Baikonur base in Kazakhstan
for manned missions.  The new facility is on schedule to handle its first rocket
launch by 2015 and its first manned mission by 2018, according
to Putin.  Rocket Failures  Russia is going ahead with plans for its first manned
mission to Mars, even after it lost the Phobos-Grunt probe to
one of the red planet’s moons last year, Rogozin said. That was
one of at least four failed Russian spacecraft launches since
2010. Roscosmos, Russia’s space agency, halted launches of
Proton-M rockets last August after two satellites were lost.  Roscosmos is working on a new “super-heavy” rocket for
the Mars mission, Vladimir Popovkin, the head of the agency,
said today.  Russia last month signed an agreement with  Europe ’s space
agency for a joint unmanned mission to Mars to search for signs
of life beyond Earth.  Russia is also pushing forward with plans to establish a
permanent base on the Moon for scientific study, Rogozin said,
without elaborating.  Russian rocket-maker OAO Energiya has proposed
industrializing space to mine the moon for helium-3 and other
potential sources of energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  