-- Qihoo Slips With Baidu as Web Ads Trail: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-04-14T16:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/qihoo-slips-with-baidu-as-web-ads-trail-china-overnight.html
Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU) , the
Chinese Internet company whose search engine debut drove shares
to a record, is falling along with rival  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  on concern
advertising spending isn’t keeping pace with economic growth.  Qihoo, a Beijing-based  software developer  that introduced a
search engine in August, has retreated 13 percent from an all-
time high reached March 5 in  New York , while Baidu, owner of
 China ’s most-used search tool, has slid 0.8 percent. Qihoo’s 30-
day correlation with shares of Beijing-based Baidu rose to 0.44
last week, the highest since Aug. 6 and compared with negative
0.28 Feb. 26, when their movements were most divergent.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. has slumped 9.3 percent this year on
concern the economy’s emergence from a seven-quarter slowdown
will be hampered by government curbs to the  property market .
While both companies dominate China’s search market, they
reported slowing sales growth in 2012, and Qihoo said in March
operating margin will “see the bottom” in the first quarter
due to the cost of expanding its business to mobile Internet.  “The outlook for first-quarter ad revenue isn’t optimistic
because the rebound in business ad spending has been lagging
behind the macroeconomic recovery,” Henry Guo, an analyst at
research firm ABR Investment Strategy LLC, which focuses on
technology and media companies, said by phone from San Francisco
April 12. “Baidu and Qihoo will move generally in the same
direction unless Qihoo’s market share can rise significantly in
the short term. We don’t think that is likely to happen.”  Advertising Rebound  Guo recommended buying shares of Baidu and Qihoo, saying
that the companies will benefit from a rebound in the online ad
market should China’s economic growth rate continues to rise.
Baidu’s ADRs rose 8.4 percent last week to $90.62 in New York
and Qihoo gained 5.8 percent to $30.17.  China’s economy probably grew 8 percent in the first
quarter, according to the median of 40 economist forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg before a government report today. The pace
of growth rose to 7.9 percent in the last three months of 2012.  The economists’ projection represents a drop from a
forecast of 8.2 percent in February, as China’s largest cities
restricted multiple home purchases this month after policy
makers in March asked local governments to step up efforts to
cool the property market.  Baidu’s online marketing sales, which accounted for 99
percent of the  Internet company ’s total income of $1 billion in
the fourth quarter, increased 41 percent from a year earlier, it
said in a Feb. 4 earnings statement. That was down from a growth
of 50 percent in the previous three months and 60 percent in the
second quarter of 2012, according to its quarterly results.  Mobile Revenue  Qihoo, whose web ad revenue contributed to 65 percent of
total sales for the final quarter of 2012, rose 49 percent from
a year earlier, according to its earnings report dated March 5.
That slowed from a growth pace of 67 percent in the previous
quarter and 90 percent in April-June of 2012. Qihoo has cornered
about 12 percent of China’s search market to Baidu’s 79 percent,
according to March data from New York-based Internet-tracking
firm Experian Hitwise.  Both companies must find ways to make money from mobile
devices as more users shift from desk computers to smartphones
in China, according to Erik Lam, director of Asian equity sales
at Auerbach Grayson & Co. in New York.  “Investors are concerned about the sustainability of
Baidu’s competitive edge in the current environment, where the
transition from desktop computers to mobile smartphones has
arisen as a major issue,” Lam said April 12. “Whether Baidu
rises to the challenge will determine its fate in the
marketplace.”  ‘Several Years’  Qihoo Chief Financial Officer Alex Xu said advertising is
“probably not going to be a meaningful contributor in the early
days of mobile monetization” in a conference call March 5.
Operating margin based on Non-Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles will drop to 25 percent for the first quarter from 30
percent last year, and it will probably take “several years”
to get to 40 percent, he said.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., fell 0.7 percent to $36 on
April 12, rising 1 percent for the week. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index slipped 0.3 percent from a record high to 1,588.85,
trimming its weekly advance to 2.3 percent.  The China-US gauge slipped 0.5 percent to 89.99 April 12 in
New York, paring its five-day gain to 1.1 percent.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , whose main unit was forced into
bankruptcy after defaulting on a $541 million bond repayment
last month, jumped 80 percent to 75 cents, the steepest weekly
advance on record. While the Wuxi, China-based solar maker had
the biggest gain on the Bloomberg China-US gauge for the week,
it is still down 60 percent from this year’s high reached Jan.
16.  Short Interest  The stock jumped 16 percent April 8 after a news service
owned by  Hong Kong Economic Times  said  Warren Buffett ’s
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co. may buy the solar panel maker,
citing an unidentified person. Tina Potthoff, a spokeswoman for
MidAmerican in  Des Moines ,  Iowa , said by e-mail that it doesn’t
comment on speculation. Shashin Surti, a spokesman for Suntech,
said it also doesn’t comment on speculation by e-mail April 9.  Suntech’s ADRs tumbled 14 percent to 75 cents April 12.  Short interest in Suntech’s shares has plunged to its
lowest level since 2007, suggesting investors have closed out
positions betting the stock will decline since the solar
company’s main unit went bankrupt last month. The portion of
outstanding shares sold short fell to as little as 2.2 percent
on April 3 from 6.5 percent on March 18, according to data from
Markit Group Ltd., a London-based researcher. The percentage was
3.2 percent April 11.  Weaker Momentum  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in  Hong Kong 
retreated 0.5 percent to 10,655.68 on April 12, trimming its
weekly advance to 2.2 percent, while the Shanghai Composite
Index of domestic Chinese shares dropped 0.6 percent to 2,206.78
for a third weekly retreat of 0.8 percent.  “People were very bullish about China’s economic rebound
at the end of last year, but the momentum has weakened over the
last few months,” Wang Qinwei, an economist focused on  China’s
economy  and equities at Capital Economics Ltd., a London-based
research firm, said by phone April 12. “We are even more
pessimistic about the growth rate, which may even be slower than
the previous quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  