-- Rand Pares Best Week This Year as Signal Suggests Rally Overdone
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-04-12T14:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/rand-pares-best-week-this-year-as-signal-suggests-rally-overdone.html
The rand declined, paring its
biggest weekly advance this year, as investors bet a rally that
took it to a six-week high had gone too far.  South Africa ’s currency retreated 0.2 percent to 8.9133 per
dollar by 4:08 p.m. in Johannesburg, paring its gain this week
to 2.1 percent, still the most since the five days through Dec.
7. Yields on 10.5 percent bonds due December 2026 dropped two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.04 percent, for a
decline of 10 basis points this week.  The rand had strengthened 4.8 percent since falling to a
four-year low on March 21, rallying for seven straight days
until yesterday, as monetary easing by global central banks
sparked demand for emerging-market bonds. That rebound may be
overdone, a technical indicator signaled.  “Resistance to further rand gains is likely” as the
currency “moves into overbought territory,” Mohammed Nalla,
head of strategic research at  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  in
Johannesburg, said in a report e-mailed to clients today.
“Given the correction over the last three weeks, dollar-buying
interest should resume around current levels.”  The stochastic oscillator for the rand versus the dollar
was at 91 today, above the 70 threshold that signals the
currency may have appreciated too quickly and is poised for a
retreat. The measure, which tracks the price of a currency
relative to its highs and lows during a particular period, has
been above 70 for the past two days.  Manufacturing Falls  The rand also declined after manufacturing data added to
evidence that  Africa ’s biggest economy is stalling. Factory
output declined 2.9 percent in February from revised growth of
3.7 percent in January, as domestic and global demand dropped,
offsetting the benefits of a weaker rand. The median estimate in
a Bloomberg survey of nine economists was for 2.1 percent
growth.  “A much weaker manufacturing number moved the currency”
weaker, Bruce Donald, a strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd.
in Johannesburg, said via e-mail.  A recession in  Europe , which accounts for a fifth of South
African exports, and local labor unrest have curbed growth and
undermined  consumer confidence  in South Africa. The  Reserve Bank 
and National Treasury expect the economy to expand 2.7 percent
this year, less than the 7 percent the government is targeting
to address a 24.9 percent unemployment rate. Manufacturing makes
up about 15 percent of South Africa’s gross domestic product.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  