-- Treasury Lists Russians Facing Sanctions on Human Rights
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-04-13T09:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/treasury-lists-russians-facing-sanctions-on-human-rights.html
The Obama administration released  a
list  of 18 Russians who will be subject to financial sanctions
and banned from entering the U.S. for playing a role in  human
rights  abuses, prompting Russia to impose its own ban.  The Treasury Department acted yesterday under a law passed
last year known as the Magnitsky Act, named for a Russian lawyer
who accused police officials of stealing $230 million from the
national treasury. Supporters of Sergei Magnitsky, who was
arrested on tax evasion charges and died in jail in 2009, say he
was tortured and denied medical treatment.  The administration submitted a second, classified list to
Congress of other Russians who will be banned from traveling to
the U.S., according to a State Department official who briefed
reporters on condition of anonymity. The official said he
couldn’t explain why the second list was classified because that
would give away who was on it, and he declined to say how many
people were on it.  The official acknowledged that the use of a classified
sanctions list may add to friction with  Russia , where the
Magnitsky law has been denounced as interference in the
country’s internal affairs. Russia’s Investigative Committee
said last month that Magnitsky, who advised Hermitage Capital
Management, died of cardiac failure and that it found no
evidence he suffered physical abuse.  Russian Counter-List  The Russian Foreign Ministry today released its own list of
18 former and current U.S. officials barred from entering
Russia, the ministry said on its website. The ban, for human-
rights violations against Russians abroad, also includes people
the ministry accuses of torture at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.  Included in the Russian list are David Addington, the
former chief of staff to U.S. Vice President  Dick Cheney , and
Jeffrey Harbeson, the head of the U.S. Navy base in Guantanamo
until 2012.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is trying to secure
Russia’s cooperation to end the civil war in  Syria . It is also
seeking Russia’s help in negotiations with  Iran  over its nuclear
program.  Restart Talks  Obama administration officials are trying to restart
nonproliferation talks with Russia, and National Security
Adviser Tom Donilon is scheduled to travel there later this
month.  The list of 18 Russians issued yesterday doesn’t include
some higher-profile names that U.S. lawmakers have said they
wanted to see facing sanctions, including Russia’s top police
official,  Alexander Bastrykin , who led a crackdown on opponents
of his nation’s government, and Chechen leader  Ramzan Kadyrov .  Republican Representative Ed Royce of  California , the
chairman of House Foreign Affairs Committee, said “the
publication of this list is a welcome step in our efforts to
support democracy and human rights in Russia.” Royce urged
Secretary of State  John Kerry  “to ensure that the names of all
those involved in such crimes are made public.”  Financial Penalties  The State Department official said political considerations
didn’t play a part in decisions about who was placed on the
list. He was unable to say whether the 18 on the public list
have financial assets in the U.S. that would be frozen under
sanctions. The people on the classified list won’t face
financial sanctions.  Sixteen people on the public list were cited because of
their association with Magnitsky’s persecution and death, the
official said. They include senior investigators from the
 Interior Ministry , the prosecutor’s office, prison officials and
the head of the pre-trial detention facility.  Of the others, one is accused of firing the shots that in
2006 killed Umar Israilov, a Chechen who filed claims in the
 European Court  for Human Rights against Russia for human rights
violations in Chechnya.  The other is associated with the 2004 murder of Paul Klebnikov, the 41-year-old American editor of Forbes Magazine in
Russia. Klebnikov was killed as he left his office, when
assailants in a car shot him. The investigative journalist was
killed two months after publishing a list of Russia’s 100
wealthiest people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  