-- Treasuries Head for Weekly Loss as Fed May Scale Back
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-04-12T07:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/treasuries-head-for-weekly-loss-as-fed-may-scale-back.html
Treasuries headed for the first
weekly loss in five as Philadelphia Federal Reserve President
Charles Plosser said the central bank should begin scaling back
its bond purchases in the next few months.  U.S. government securities dropped 0.5 percent this week
through yesterday, leaving them little changed for the year,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. Stocks have surged in
2013, sending the Dow Jones Industrial Average up 13 percent,
including dividends, to a record. Several Fed officials favored
cutting bond purchases this year and halting the record stimulus
by year-end, according to minutes of the March 19-20 meeting of
the Federal Open Market Committee released this week.  “There’s a lot of chatter about that,” said Ali Jalai, a
Treasuries trader in  Singapore  at Scotiabank, a unit of  Canada ’s
 Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , one of the 21 primary dealers that trade
directly with the central bank. “It seems like the Fed wants to
stop sooner than later. The economy’s OK. I’m a little short,”
with a bet that 10-year notes will fall.  Benchmark 10-year yields were little changed at 1.78
percent as of 8:18 a.m. in  London , based on Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The price of the 2 percent note maturing February
2023 was 101 31/32.  The yield has risen seven basis points since April 5, the
first weekly increase since the period ended March 8. It is
still less than half a percentage point away from the record low
of 1.38 percent set in July.  BOJ Purchases  Japan ’s 10-year rate climbed five basis points to 0.62
percent. It has risen from the record low of 0.315 percent set
last week after the  Bank of Japan (8301)  doubled its monthly bond
purchases to 7.5 trillion yen ($75.4 billion) as it strives to
end deflation. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  In the U.S., the Fed buys $85 billion of Treasury and
mortgage debt a month. Both central banks are trying to spur
growth by putting downward pressure on borrowing costs.  The Fed should begin to trim its purchases, barring a slump
in the economy, Plosser said yesterday in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s  Susan Li  in Hong Kong.  A cut should start “in just a few months’ time,” he said.  The Fed last met before the Labor Department reported April
5 the U.S. added 88,000 jobs in March, the slowest growth in
nine months.  Plosser, who does not vote on monetary policy this year,
said that the report didn’t alter his view. “One month’s number
is not enough for me to change my forecast,” he said.  The central bank pledged after its meeting to press on with
purchases until the labor market improves “substantially.”  Slow Withdrawal  The Fed will probably be slow to take back the money it has
pumped into the economy, said Robert Michele, the global chief
investment officer for fixed income, currencies and commodities
at JPMorgan Asset Management Inc. in New York.  “The period of very low bond yields continues for quite
some time,” he said yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s
“Market Makers” with Sara Eisen and  Erik Schatzker . “A rapid
rise in interest rates is not something anyone wants to see
right now, least of all the Federal Reserve,” said Michele, who
helps oversee more than $154 billion.  Retail  sales  stagnated in March, economists said before the
report today.  The value of purchases was little changed, according to the
 median  forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, after
a 1.1 percent increase in February that was the biggest gain in
five months. Separate reports today may show wholesale prices
fell last month and consumer sentiment was little changed in
April.  Retail sales will probably be weak enough to support bonds,
said Allen Lei, a Taipei-based Treasuries trader at Hontai Life
Insurance Co., which has $6 billion in fixed-income assets. Lei
said he planned to buy Treasuries before the Commerce Department
report, scheduled for 8:30 a.m. in  Washington .  The bulls are in a minority. Treasury yields will rise to
1.95 percent by June 30, according to a Bloomberg survey of
banks and securities companies, with the most recent projections
given the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  