-- Treasuries Climb on Slow Growth as Bullish Bets Reach 2013 High
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-04-12T21:35:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/treasuries-gain-for-second-day-before-u-s-retail-sales-report.html
Treasury 10-year notes gained for a
second day after retail sales in the U.S. unexpectedly fell in
March and as large speculators raised their net-long positions
on the securities’ futures to the highest level this year.  Benchmark  10-year yields  declined the most on a closing
basis in six weeks as separate reports showed measures of
wholesale prices and consumer sentiment fell more than forecast,
adding to speculation the  Federal Reserve  won’t end its monetary
stimulus anytime soon. Speculative  long positions , or bets
prices will rise, outnumbered short positions by 120,779
contracts on the  Chicago  Board of Trade in the week ending April
9, rising 9 percent from the previous week to the highest level
since Dec. 17, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data
showed.  “The push to the low rates has been a perfect storm --
starting with  Europe ,  Japan , the Fed and now weak U.S. data,”
said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at
Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for
institutional investors. “We’ve had an onslaught of bad data in
the U.S. and there isn’t much to stake bearish views on.
Ultimately, it gives the Fed cover to keep buying.”  Benchmark 10-year yields fell seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 1.72 percent as of 5 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. It was the biggest drop
since Feb. 25. The price of the 2 percent note maturing February
2023 rose 5/8, or $6.25 per $1,000 face amount, to 102 17/32.  Yields on  30-year bonds  fell eight basis points to 2.92
percent after closing above 3 percent yesterday for the first
time in a week.  Central Banks  Treasury 10-year yields fell on April 4 after  Bank of Japan (8301) 
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said the central bank would double its
asset purchases, to 7.5 trillion yen ($76 billion) of bonds a
month, in a bid to encourage inflation. Japan held $1.12
trillion of  U.S. debt , Treasury data through January shows.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on April 8 economic
conditions “are clearly still far from where we would all like
them to be,” stoking speculation the central bank will need
longer to exit its stimulus program.  The Fed bought $1.484 billion of Treasuries maturing
between February 2036 and February 2043 today as part of its $85
billion of monthly Treasury and mortgage debt buying in the
third round of its quantitative-easing strategy to spur economic
growth.  ‘Weakening Economy’  “The economic data is pointing to a weak and weakening
economy, which continues to keep a bid in Treasuries,” said
 Scott Graham , head of government-bond trading at  Bank of
Montreal (BMO) ’s BMO Capital Markets unit in Chicago, one of 21
primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “With such aggressive
global central-bank action, the onus is squarely on good data to
get the market to higher yields, and we just haven’t seen that
yet.”  The 0.4 percent decrease in retail sales, the biggest since
June, followed a 1 percent gain in February, Commerce Department
figures showed today in Washington. The median forecast of 85
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an unchanged
reading. Department stores and electronics dealers were among
the weakest showings.  The  producer price index  dropped 0.6 percent, the biggest
since May, following a 0.7 percent gain in the prior month, the
Labor Department reported today in  Washington . The median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 75 economists called for a 0.2
percent decline.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
 sentiment index  for April fell to 72.3 from 78.6 in March. No
change was projected for this month’s reading compared with
March, according to another Bloomberg survey.  ‘Ugly Numbers’  “Those are pretty ugly numbers,” Ira Jersey, an interest-
rate strategist in New York at Credit Suisse Group AG, one of 21
primary dealers that trade directly with the Fed. “In an
environment where you have very slow jobs growth and poor sales,
the two of those things don’t bode well for the economy. An
early reduction in quantitative easing is further off the table
because of these numbers.”  Bond fund managers are retreating from the most defensive
bets in more than four years on U.S. debt investments as a
sudden slowdown in  job creation  mutes the risk of a rise in
 interest rates .  Fixed-income money managers overseeing a combined $130
billion have increased their asset-weighted duration, a
reflection of how long the debt they own will be outstanding, to
98.6 percent of target benchmark indexes as of April 9 from 97.2
percent on March 19, the least since September 2008, according
to a survey by Stone & McCarthy Research Associates in
Plainsboro,  New Jersey .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  