-- Rename U.K. Airport for Thatcher, Tory Lawmakers Suggest
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-04-12T13:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/rename-u-k-airport-for-thatcher-tory-lawmakers-suggest.html
One of the U.K.’s major airports
should be renamed to honor former Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher , who died four days ago, two lawmakers from her
 Conservative Party  suggested.  Stephen Metcalfe and Eleanor Laing, who represent districts
in Essex to the northeast of London, made the proposal in a so-
called  early-day motion  in Parliament this week. Such motions
are rarely debated, though other lawmakers can add their
signatures to signal support.  Metcalfe and Laing’s proposal calls on the government “to
commemorate Baroness Thatcher’s colossal achievements by
renaming one of the U.K.’s international airports Thatcher
International Airport as an enduring testament to her
contribution to the world.”  Thatcher’s death at age 87 after a stroke has prompted a
divided reaction in the U.K., with her Tory supporters lauding
her economic reforms and strength of character. Her political
opponents have pointed to the decline in traditional
manufacturing and growing north-south divide under her
premiership, which lasted from 1979 to 1990. She will receive a
ceremonial funeral in  London ’s St. Paul’s Cathedral on April 17.  The motion calls on the House of Commons to recognize that
Thatcher “changed not only the face of politics but the face of
a nation, through her dedication, commitment, energy and
determination, that she secured a successful future for this
country that many at the time thought unthinkable.”  Heathrow Proposal  The Press Association newswire cited Metcalfe as saying
both London’s main hub, Heathrow, and Stansted in Essex could be
considered for renaming.  There are international precedents:  Washington National
Airport  was renamed for U.S. President  Ronald Reagan , Thatcher’s
Cold-War ally, while Paris’s main hub bears the name of
President  Charles de Gaulle . Last year, Prague’s airport was re-
named after the poet-president,  Vaclav Havel , while Berlin’s new
airport, whose opening has been delayed, recalls former German
Chancellor Willy Brandt.  In the U.K., cultural and sporting icons are commemorated
instead: Liverpool John Lennon Airport recalls the late Beatle,
while  Belfast City Airport  carries the name of Northern Ireland
soccer star  George Best .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  