-- Republican Committee Says Marriage Should Be Man-Woman
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-04-12T18:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/republican-committee-says-marriage-should-be-man-woman.html
The  Republican National Committee 
reaffirmed its view that marriage should be only between a man
and a woman, as the party sought to calm members of its base
concerned that a rebranding effort might go too far.  Meeting in Los Angeles today, the party’s 168-member
governing body passed a resolution that says marriage between
“one man and one woman” is the “optimum environment in which
to raise healthy children for the future of America.”  The move is meant to assure core supporters that the party
isn’t moving away from its bedrock tenets following the March 18
release of the “Growth and Opportunity Project” report
commissioned by RNC Chairman Reince Priebus.  That document, a highly critical assessment of the party’s
2012 election efforts, among other things called for a more
inclusive tone and attitude toward those who disagree with the
Republican platform that opposes on abortion rights and same-sex
marriage.  “For many younger voters, these issues are a gateway into
whether the party is a place they want to be,” the report said.
“If our party is not welcoming and inclusive, young people and
increasingly other voters will continue to tune us out.”  A NBC News/Wall Street Journal  poll  released today shows 53
percent of Americans support allowing same-sex marriage,
compared with 42 percent opposed. The survey of 1,000 adults was
taken April 5-8 and has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1
percentage points.  ‘Grow a Backbone’  Tony Perkins, president of the Washington-based Family
Research Council, which opposes same-sex marriage and abortion
rights, called for contributions to be stopped to the RNC in a
message posted online yesterday.  “Until the RNC and the other national Republican
organizations grow a backbone and start defending core
principles, don’t give them a dime of your hard-earned money,”
he wrote. “If you want to invest in the political process, and
I encourage you to do so, give directly to candidates who
reflect your values and organizations you trust.”  The party’s Resolutions Committee had planned to consider
language reaffirming the party’s platform, including the
“sanctity” of human life, the right to keep and bear arms and
that marriage should be between a man and woman, even before a
letter was sent to the party this week demanding such action.  That letter, reported earlier by NBC News, came from a
coalition of groups who oppose same-sex marriage and abortion
rights. Addressed to Priebus, it said the party risks losing its
base if it goes too far in adopting the approaches recommended
by the RNC report.  ‘Historical Mistake’  “The Republican Party makes a huge historical mistake if
it intends to dismantle this coalition by marginalizing social
conservatives and avoiding the issues which attract and energize
them by the millions,” the letter said.  Leaders from 11 groups, including the Family Research
Council and  American Values , signed the April 8 letter.  “Republicans would do well to persuade young voters why
marriage between a man and woman is so important, rather than
abandon thousands of years of wisdom to please them,” the
letter says.  That isn’t likely to work, according to Republican
strategist Mike Murphy. Speaking this week at the University of
Chicago’s Institute of Politics, Murphy said the party needs to
moderate its message on marriage if it wants to win.  “The question is how many elections we want to lose along
the way,” he said. “The numbers are just too strong among
young voters,” he added, referring to poll data showing strong
support among young people for legalizing same-sex marriage.  Voter Outreach  Murphy, who worked on  Arizona  Senator John McCain’s 2008
presidential campaign, said the party’s efforts must go beyond
better voter outreach and technology.  “We are making a foolish mistake if we think the problem
is simply mechanics,” he said. “What counts is message and
policy, and we have to modernize the conservatism that works.”  Polling shows the depth of the Republican challenges. While
both parties have relatively low approval ratings, Republicans
are viewed more unfavorably than Democrats.  A CNN/ORC International  poll  released March 18 showed 54
percent of Americans have an unfavorable view of the Republican
Party, compared with 48 percent for the Democratic Party. Two-thirds said Republicans favor the rich, and almost half think
the party’s policies are too extreme.  A Gallup  poll  conducted March 20-21 showed one in five
Americans, when asked to say what they most dislike about the
party, think the Republicans are too inflexible and unwilling to
compromise. The number is even higher -- 26 percent -- among
Republicans, highlighting the conflict within the party.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  