-- Republicans Pressed on Gun Bill as Some Democrats Waver
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-04-12T04:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/republicans-pressed-on-gun-bill-as-some-democrats-waver.html
President  Barack Obama ’s bid to
enact even a scaled-back  version  of his  gun -safety agenda needs
support from many of the 16 Senate Republicans who showed
they’re at least willing to debate it.  He also must hold onto almost all of the 52 Democrats and
independents who joined yesterday’s 68-31 vote to advance the
measure for debate.  The White House already may be losing Democratic Senator
 Max Baucus , who voted yes for debate though said in an interview
later that he has trouble with the legislation.  “I oppose the bill, I just cannot support it,” said
Baucus of Montana, who faces re-election in 2014. “I’m just not
going to block debate on it.”  Several Republicans said they voted yes for the same reason
-- to allow the measure to advance -- though they probably won’t
back it in a final vote.  “It’s a debate we ought to have,” said Republican Senator
Johnny Isakson of Georgia. “I don’t think I am going to support
the legislation.”  The Senate agreed yesterday to move to debate on the
legislation, S. 649, which would expand background checks of gun
purchasers, increase funding for school safety and set new
penalties for gun trafficking.  The bill, should it clear the Senate, faces an uncertain
fate in the House, where Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio
Republican , said he won’t make a “blanket” commitment to bring
a gun measure to the floor.  Sandy Hook  The debate over  gun control  was reignited by the Dec. 14
shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown,
Connecticut. Adam Lanza used a Bushmaster AR-15 semiautomatic
rifle to kill 20 children and six school employees. Just weeks
later, Obama proposed a package of measures to curb gun violence
that included renewing a ban on assault weapons and setting size
limits for ammunition magazines.  Those proposals were dropped from the Senate bill amid
opposition from the  National Rifle Association . The president
campaigned this week to preserve momentum for what’s left of the
measure, bringing families of Newtown victims to Washington on
Air Force One to ask senators to support it.  Baucus was one of the Democrats who met with Newtown
victims’ relatives. He called it a “heart wrenching and
emotional meeting” that, nevertheless, didn’t change his
position on the legislation.  Begich, Pryor  Senator  Mark Begich  of Alaska, who said he met twice with
the Newtown families, voted yesterday to block consideration of
the measure.  “The base bill, I still had problems with it,” Begich
said.  Democratic Senator  Mark Pryor  of Arkansas also voted
against moving forward with the bill.  Begich and Pryor -- the only 2 Democrats to oppose bringing
the measure up for debate -- are up for re-election next year.  The 16 Republican votes to advance the bill signaled that
at least some in the party will support the legislation. Still,
one of those Republicans,  Saxby Chambliss  of Georgia, said he
won’t back the measure.  A number of Republicans think that voting to allow debate
“gives them the freedom to vote against the bill,” said Stu Rothenberg, editor of the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political
Report in Washington.  “I think it’s at the least embarrassing, and more than
that, a bit of a problem, that Democrats can’t get every
Democrat,” Rothenberg said. “It becomes easier for Republicans
to just to say ‘look at Pryor or Begich.’”  Democrat  Mary Landrieu  of Louisiana, who is up for re-
election next year in a state that Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney  won in November, wouldn’t say whether she
supports the legislation.  Second Amendment  “I am going to be a strong supporter of the Second
Amendment,” Landrieu said. The constitutional amendment
protects Americans’ right to bear arms.  The political concerns of these Democrats are weighing on
party members heading into next week’s vote.  “This is that big issue that the nation faces that you
need to stand up and vote on,” said California Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a Democrat who unsuccessfully sought to include an
assault-weapon ban in the legislation. “It always surprises me
when some people, the first thing they think of is getting re-
elected.”  Democratic defections may extend beyond those facing re-
election. Senator Heidi Heitkamp of  North Dakota , a freshman
lawmaker, said she hasn’t “formed any opinions” on the
background-check compromise.  ‘Way of Life’  North Dakota has a strong gun culture, Heitkamp said. “You
need to understand in our part of the country, this isn’t an
issue, this is a way of life, this is how people feel,” she
said.  Yesterday’s bipartisan vote followed a compromise by
Republican  Pat Toomey  of Pennsylvania and  Joe Manchin  of West
Virginia, a Democrat, to require background checks for gun sales
over the Internet and between private parties at gun shows.  Mandatory background checks for most gun purchasers are
supported by 91 percent of U.S. voters, including 96 percent of
Democrats, 88 percent of Republicans and 88 percent of gun-
owning households, according to a Quinnipiac University poll
conducted March 27-April 1.  The Manchin-Toomey proposal will be offered as the first
amendment to the Senate bill. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
said debate and votes may stretch into the week of April 22.  The push for legislation by the Newtown families and other
groups supporting it has been an offsetting force to the
influence of the NRA, the nation’s biggest gun lobby.  A-Minus Rating  Nine of the Republicans voting to move to debate on the
bill received at least an A-minus rating from Gun Owners of
America, a gun-rights group based in Springfield, Virginia.  “The political landscape in America on gun safety is
changing before our eyes,” said Connecticut Senator  Richard Blumenthal , a Democrat. “Four months ago gun safety and gun
violence were thought to be politically untouchable in
America.”  Republicans including  John McCain  of Arizona will be
crucial to the success of the legislation. In an interview
yesterday, he stopped short of endorsing the legislation.  “I’m certainly favorably disposed but I’ve got to look at
all the details,” he said. “The Internet aspect of the issue
is something I have concerns about.”  Another Republican being pressed on the issue is  Susan Collins  of Maine, who is sponsoring a separate bill to set
penalties for firearms trafficking. She said the compromise
between Manchin and Toomey addressed many of her concerns about
the legislation.  “It takes care of many of the problems that are in the
underlying bill,” she said. “It’s certainly a positive
development.”  Democratic Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York predicted a
challenge to gain votes in the coming days.  “Make no mistake about it; we have a tough fight” to pass
the gun measure, Schumer said. “The NRA will try and throw all
kinds of amendments at us.”  -- Editors: Laurie Asseo, Jodi Schneider  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  