-- ResCap Approved to Pay as Much as $7.8 Million in Bonuses
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-04-12T21:12:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/rescap-wins-approval-to-pay-as-much-as-7-8-million-in-bonuses.html
Residential Capital LLC, the
bankrupt former mortgage company, won court permission to pay as
much as $7.8 million in bonuses to employees, with almost half
the money potentially going to eight top executives.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in  Manhattan  approved
the bonus plans today, over the objection of the Office of the
U.S. Trustee, which monitors corporate bankruptcies. The trustee
had argued that it was unfair to have such a large share of the
bonus pool going to a handful of the executives.  In his opinion, released today, Glenn said he gave the plan
“close scrutiny” because of the high percentage going to the
executives. He concluded the potential payments were necessary
“in light of the complexity and challenges of the tasks
remaining to be done, and the importance of executive leadership
in achieving the goals that have been set.”  The three bonus plans cover more than 160 remaining ResCap
employees. Chief Financial Officer James Whitlinger and Patrick Fleming, ResCap’s capital markets officer, will be eligible for
as much as $1.1 million should the company achieve all of the
goals for selling assets and controlling costs set out in the
plans.  Six other executives would collect as much as
$2.52 million. About 155 other employees are also eligible for
bonuses.  ResCap, based in  New York , filed for bankruptcy in May with
plans to sell most of its assets and resolve legal claims
related to residential mortgage-backed securities. The company
is owned by Detroit-based auto lender  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)   The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  