-- ResCap Unsecured Creditors Seek Permission to Sue Ally
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-04-12T14:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/rescap-unsecured-creditors-seek-permission-to-sue-ally.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  may owe
$25 billion to unsecured creditors of its bankrupt Residential
Capital LLC unit, the creditors said in court papers seeking to
sue Ally.  Ally created the “mortgage securitization mess” that
helped force ResCap, as the unit is known, into bankruptcy, the
creditors claim in a motion filed last night in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in  Manhattan . To save itself, Ally allegedly took assets
from ResCap and imposed liabilities on the unit in a scheme that
began as early as 2004.  The official committee of ResCap’s unsecured creditors and
a court-appointed bankruptcy examiner have been investigating
Ally’s pre-bankruptcy relationship with ResCap. They focused on
a settlement proposed by Ally in which ResCap would give up the
right to sue its parent in exchange for a $750 million payment.  “Ally believes the claims are without merit,” the company
said in an emailed statement. “We are highly confident in our
legal position. Our settlement offer reflected a desire to reach
closure not an admission of guilt.”  ResCap, based in  New York , filed for bankruptcy May 14 with
plans to sell its assets and use the proceeds to repay as much
of its debt as possible. Ally, a Detroit-based bank that
specializes in  car loans , is 74 percent-owned by the  U.S.
Treasury  after receiving a bailout.  Lawsuit’s Aim  In the proposed lawsuit, creditors would seek to force Ally
to take responsibility for much of ResCap’s debt.  Creditors say the $750 million settlement offer would not
be enough. They are negotiating with ResCap and Ally, and if
those talks fail, the committee would sue Ally.  Any lawsuit by the creditors requires permission from U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn.  Information emerging from the court-ordered examiner’s
investigation shows Ally’s intent to “exploit and misuse” its
control over ResCap, the creditors said in court papers. The
details emerging from the investigation may support claims that
would make Ally liable for all of ResCap’s unsecured debt, which
may total $25 billion, they say.  Arthur Gonzalez , a former bankruptcy judge, was appointed
last year to investigate transactions between ResCap and Ally as
well as Cerberus Capital Management LP, which led a group of
investors that acquired a 51 percent stake in Ally, then known
as GMAC, in 2006.  “The information available to date paints a stark picture
of AFI’s domination, control and abuse of the debtors that
supports strong claims against the AFI defendants,” lawyers for
the creditors’ committee said in the filing.  Ally might face claims of preferential transfer, fraudulent
conveyance, indemnification and equitable subordination,
according to the filing.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-bk-12020,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 