-- Retail Sales in U.S. Probably Stagnated as Employment Cooled
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-04-12T04:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/retail-sales-in-u-s-probably-stagnated-as-employment-cooled.html
Retail  sales  probably stagnated in
March amid the smallest employment gain in nine months, showing
household spending ended the first quarter on softer footing,
economists said before a report today.  The value of purchases was little changed after a 1.1
percent increase in February that was the biggest gain in five
months, according to the  median  forecast of 85 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Other reports today may show consumer
sentiment was also little changed in April and wholesale prices
fell last month.  Economists project  consumer spending , which accounts for 70
percent of the economy, grew in the first quarter at the fastest
pace in two years as advances in January and February more than
made up for the weakness last month. A pickup in hiring and
bigger increases in wages will be needed to ensure any slowdown
proves temporary as  federal budget  cuts slow growth.  “In the first quarter, consumers played a very important
role in helping to support economic growth,” said  Michael Brown , an economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina . “If we continue to see slow personal income
gains and very slow job growth, they will play less of a role
later this year.”  The Commerce Department will release the retail sales data
at 8:30 a.m. in Washington.  Economists’ estimates ranged from a decline of 0.6 percent
to an increase of 0.7 percent.  Spending Forecast  March’s weaker sales data come after demand strengthened at
the end of 2012 and into this year. Consumer spending  advanced 
at a 1.8 percent rate from October through December, according
to Commerce Department data. It rose at a 3 percent rate from
January through March, the most since the first quarter of 2011,
according to median projection of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg this month.  Sales held up even as taxes took more from Americans’
paychecks. Congress agreed to a fiscal pact on Jan. 1 that
allowed the tax used to finance  Social Security  to revert to 6.2
percent from 4.2 percent.  Households’ attitudes also remain steadfast. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan gauge of consumer sentiment, due
at 9:55 a.m., was little changed in April from the prior month
at 78.5. March’s 78.6 was the highest reading since November.  Offering some respite last month, gasoline prices  fell  in
March, a time when they typically rise. Income tax returns from
the  Internal Revenue Service  have also come in after a delay.  Not ‘Weak’  “The consumer does not feel as weak as what I’m sensing
investors think,”  Karen Hoguet ,  Macy’s Inc. (M)  chief financial
officer, said during an April 9 conference. “The very low end
is struggling a bit, and the very high end is struggling a bit
due to either perception or reality of increased taxes.”  Shares of the second-largest department-store chain are up
13.6 percent so far this year. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Retailing Index, which includes Macy’s, has
climbed 13.8 percent over the same period.  Economists nonetheless project the strength in demand
during the first three months of 2013 will give way to a smaller
gain this quarter. Consumer spending will probably slow to a 1.8
percent pace from April through June, according to the Bloomberg
survey of 59 economists taken from April 5 to April 9.  Payrolls grew by 88,000 last month, the smallest increase
since June, the Labor Department said on April 5. Average hourly
earnings were unchanged in March from the prior month, the
weakest showing since October.  Recent reports have added to concern that across-the-board
government budget cuts, known as sequestration, will impede
progress made in the job market. Reductions in planned spending,
which began March 1, trim 5 percent from domestic agencies and 8
percent for the Defense Department this fiscal year.  Also today, an 8:30 a.m. release from the Labor Department
will show an index of producer prices decreased 0.2 percent in
March after rising 0.7 percent the prior month, according to the
survey median.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  