-- Brazil’s Retail Profits Threatened by Consumer Pullback
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-04-12T14:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/retail-profits-threatened-by-consumer-pullback-corporate-brazil.html
Brazilian consumers are scaling
back purchases of furniture and appliances for the first time in
almost four years, endangering profits at retailers from
 Magazine Luiza SA (MGLU3)  to Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao
de Acucar.  February retail sales fell 0.2 percent from a year earlier,
a government report showed yesterday, surprising all  27 analysts 
in a Bloomberg survey. Their estimates ranged from gains of 1.2
percent to 6.5 percent. Food and beverages posted the steepest
slide, followed by durable goods, clothing and shoes.  Shoppers are deferring costlier items as inflation saps
spending power while stagnant growth and the specter of rising
interest rates erode  consumer confidence . That imperils an
industry that has bolstered Brazil’s economy, with consumer-
discretionary stocks producing the Bovespa index’s top returns
in 2012’s second half even as the economy slowed.  “This very much caught everyone on the hop,” Daniel Snowden, an emerging-markets analyst at Informa Global Markets
in  London , said in a telephone interview. “Consumer demand has
been so strong over the last year and a half, the stop in
spending is a surprise.”  Consumers are being squeezed by rising prices, especially
on food and beverages. The government’s benchmark  consumer price
index  rose at a 6.59 percent annual rate in March, exceeding the
6.5 percent upper limit of the central bank’s target range for
the first time since November 2011.  Durable Goods  Durable-goods purchases fell 1 percent from a year earlier
in February, the first drop since June 2009, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Supermarket sales slid 2.1 percent and clothing
and shoe purchases decreased 1 percent.  “This could be signaling that economic activity could be
at a level much lower than previously believed,” said Paulo de Sa Pereira, who helps manage more than 23 billion reais ($11.7
billion) at Fundacao Cesp including stock in  Pao de Acucar ,
appliance retailer Magazine Luiza and  Lojas Americanas SA. (LAME4)   “If this lasts for more than a month, it could result in a
lowering of expectations, and it could affect some retail
companies,” Pereira said by telephone from Sao Paulo.  The MSCI index of Brazilian consumer-discretionary stocks,
which include Lojas Americanas, Lojas Renner SA and  Cia. Hering (HGTX3) ,
slid 2.3 percent this year through yesterday. That compares with
a  25 percent surge  in the last six months of 2012.  Retailer’s Valuation  Pao de Acucar, Brazil’s biggest retailer, traded yesterday
at 23 times its estimated 2013 earnings, compared with an
average of 16 for all companies on the Bovespa, after rallying
25 percent in the past year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Lojas Americanas, which sells household goods, appliances
and electronics, had a ratio of 31, making it the most-expensive
consumer stock on the gauge.  The company fell 0.1 percent to 17.24 reais at 11:11 a.m.
in  Sao Paulo  trading. Pao de Acucar rose 0.6 percent to 108.11
reais.  Pao de Acucar’s durable-goods unit, which includes Ponto
Frio electronics and appliance stores and Casas Bahia furniture
outlets, was the Sao Paulo-based company’s best performer last
year, more than quadrupling  profit . That compares with a 24
percent increase for the retail segment.  Spokesmen for Pao de Acucar and Rio de Janeiro-based Lojas
Americanas declined to comment on decreasing durable-goods sales
as Brazilians become more indebted and possible interest-rate
increases loom. Magazine Luiza, based in Franca, Brazil, didn’t
return an e-mail request for comment.  ‘Atypical’ Drop  Retail sales should rebound in March and April after
February’s “atypical” decline, said Roberio Costa, chief
economist at Banco Rabobank International Brasil in Sao Paulo.  “In supermarket sales, there’s no explanation, especially
considering the increase in salaries in January,” said Costa,
referring to annual wage adjustments negotiated between the
companies and unions. “It was weak and it doesn’t reflect a
change in trends. Spending should continue to grow.”  Still, faster inflation could prompt policy makers to raise
 borrowing costs , further hindering appliance and furniture
purchases. Consumers may be hesitant to take on more loans after
the average household spent 21.65 percent of its income to pay
off debt in January, according to the central bank.  “That’s close to developed-world countries, but with
higher rates,” Luiz Cesta, an analyst at Votorantim Corretora,
said in an interview in Sao Paulo.  Brazil ’s interest-rate futures contracts climbed to a one-
week high yesterday, adding to speculation that policy makers
will raise borrowing costs as soon as next week from the record
low 7.25 percent.  Economists in the latest central bank survey published
April 5 forecast growth of 3 percent in 2013. That’s down from a
median estimate of 4 percent in October. Last year’s economic
expansion was 0.9 percent.  “If consumers are going to stop spending along 2013, are
we even going to get to 3 percent?” said Snowden at Informa
Global Markets. Shoppers “are keeping their wallets in their
pockets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  