-- Rosengren Says Jobless Rate Justifies Continued Fed Easing
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-04-12T16:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/rosengren-says-jobless-rate-justifies-continued-fed-bond-buying.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said the central bank should press on
with its bond-buying stimulus as the  unemployment rate  remains
above its goal and inflation is below its objective.  “Consistently missing our inflation target alone would
justify a highly accommodative policy,” Rosengren, who votes on
U.S. monetary decisions this year, said in a speech prepared for
delivery today in Boston. “Coupled with persistently high
unemployment, the justification for continuing highly
accommodative policy by large-scale asset purchases is clear.”  Inflation in February was 1.3 percent, below the Fed’s 2
percent target and close to the lowest level since 2009, while
growth has been too weak to generate jobs for millions who are
out of work. The jobless rate fell to 7.6 percent in March, a
four-year low, as more Americans abandoned the search for work.  Fed officials are debating how and when they will curtail
asset purchases that have swollen the central bank’s balance
sheet to a record  $3.23 trillion . The policy-setting  Federal
Open Market Committee  led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  decided
last month to continue $85 billion in monthly bond buying until
the labor-market outlook improves “substantially.”  The current quantitative easing program is aggressive
enough if it continues and it may be appropriate to slow the
purchases when the jobless rate declines to 7.25 percent,
Rosengren said in an interview with CNBC today. Conditions may
warrant that policy makers “consider tapering” even before
unemployment reaches that level, which he said may happen by the
end of this year.  ‘Taper or Stop’  “I’d like it to happen not by people pulling out of the
 labor force  but by getting the kind of payroll employment growth
that’s consistent with an improvement in the labor markets,”
Rosengren said in the CNBC interview. “If we’re really seeing
significant pick-up in payroll employment and we’re seeing labor
markets tightening up, it may be appropriate at that time to
either taper or stop our purchase program.”  The economy probably expanded at about a 3 percent annual
pace in the first quarter that will decelerate to 1.5 percent in
the second quarter, Rosengren said in the interview.  “There’s strength in the underlying economy,” he said.
“If you’d asked me six months ago would we have the kind of
growth that we’ve been getting with the tax increase, with the
sequester, with the problems in Europe, I probably would have
expected a slower economy than what we’re actually finding.”  Voter Support  Rosengren is one of seven central bank officials voicing
support for pressing on with asset purchases. The officials,
commenting in speeches and interviews last week, include four
others who also hold a vote on the FOMC: Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , Governor  Daniel Tarullo , Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  and St. Louis’s  James Bullard .  Falling short of both sides of the central bank’s dual
mandate of  price stability  and full employment creates “a
strong rationale for continuing our highly accommodative
monetary policy,” Rosengren said in his speech today at the
Boston Fed’s 57th economic conference.  Rosengren also said that other nations would benefit by
adopting the Fed’s dual mandate, which is required by Congress.
With its dual objectives, U.S. price stability has been as good
or better than many countries operating with a single inflation
mandate, he said.  “The dual mandate in the U.S. has been criticized by some
for providing an inflationary bias,” Rosengren said. “However,
the data show little such evidence. Inflation outcomes in the
U.S. over the past 15-20 years appear to compare quite favorably
to that of single-mandate countries.”  Rosengren said in an April 5  speech  that the harm from
long-term unemployment warrants a powerful effort by the Fed to
boost the labor market. He  said  in a speech last month he wants
to continue the central bank’s bond purchases through year-end
and raise or lower the pace in response to economic data.  Rosengren, 55, became president of the Boston Fed in July
2007, and had previously served in the economic and supervision
departments of the bank. The Boston Fed district includes
Connecticut excluding Fairfield County, Massachusetts, Maine,
 New Hampshire ,  Rhode Island  and  Vermont .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  