-- Truck Sales in China Augur Well for Rubber, Orient Futures Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-12T01:41:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/truck-sales-in-china-augur-well-for-rubber-orient-futures-says.html
Truck sales in  China , which rose
7.7 percent in March from a year earlier, bode well for
consumption of natural rubber, Orient Futures Co. analyst Yan
Xinbin said.  “We think the truck sales are showing some positive
signs,” Yan said by phone from Beijing after the release of
data yesterday from the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers. Rubber, which has dropped 8.5 percent this year
on the  Tokyo  Commodity Exchange, would receive a boost if April
truck sales confirm sustained strength in demand, said Yan, who
was ranked as the best rubber analyst in China by the Futures
Daily and the Securities Times newspapers last year.  China’s truck sales rose to 320,300 units in March,
according to a statement by the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers yesterday. Sales in the first three months were
741,573 units, about 5.3 percent higher from the same period a
year ago, according to Bloomberg Data.  Trucks account for about half of China’s natural rubber
consumption, according to estimates by  Sri Trang Agro-Industry
Pcl (STA) ,  Thailand ’s largest publicly-traded rubber exporter.  Rubber fell into a bear market this month on signs that
production will outpace demand. The global surplus may widen
this year as consumption expands less than expected because of
 Europe ’s debt crisis and a lack of demand in China, the largest
consumer, according to RCMA Commodities Asia Group.  Rubber for September delivery in Tokyo, the global
benchmark, fell 0.1 percent to 277.5 yen a kilogram ($2,787 a
metric ton) at 10:37 a.m. local time.  China’s enforcement of an environmentally more strict Euro
IV standard for trucks starting July 1 will also boost sales for
the old-model trucks in the months before July, Yan said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  