-- Russian Cabinet Member to Repatriate Assets as Restrictions Loom
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-04-12T08:48:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/russian-cabinet-member-to-repatriate-assets-as-restrictions-loom.html
Russian First Deputy Prime Minister
 Igor Shuvalov  and his wife, the second-biggest earners among
families of Cabinet members, plan to move their assets under
Russian jurisdiction to comply with new restrictions.  Shuvalov and his wife Olga are planning to shift their
foreign holdings, Alexander Machevsky, a spokesman for Prime
Minister  Dmitry Medvedev ’s only first deputy, said by phone
today, confirming a  report  in the Vedomosti newspaper.  Russian officials have come under greater scrutiny after
President  Vladimir Putin  backed anti-corruption legislation that
would put limits on ownership of foreign bank deposits and
securities. Government officials and heads of state companies
have until July 1 to close any foreign accounts,  Sergei Ivanov ,
head of the presidential administration, said this month.  Shuvalov, who has faced corruption allegations, and his
wife last year declared 374.6 million rubles ($12.1 million) of
income in 2011, a 3 percent decrease from 2010 and second in the
Cabinet to the family of Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Khloponin. Shuvalov last year denied any activities
inappropriate for a government official after the Financial
Times and the Wall Street Journal reported that his family
benefited from buying shares in state-owned OAO Gazprom in 2004.  Shuvalov and his wife owned a Jaguar and three Mercedes-
Benz cars, according to their  declaration  published on the
government’s website last year.  Their assets also included seven properties owned or rented
by the first deputy premier and his spouse, who lease a house in
 Austria  that is almost 1,500 square meters (16,000 square feet),
a 424-square-meter apartment in Britain and a 753-square-meter
apartment in the  United Arab Emirates .  Blind Trust  In June 2012, Shuvalov and his family placed their holdings
in a blind trust registered in the British Virgin Islands after
publications disclosed his wife’s earnings from her Bahamas-
based company, according to Vedomosti. Financial information
leaked last week showed Olga Shuvalova as the owner of Severin
Enterprises in the British Virgin Islands, the  Guardian
newspaper  reported April 3, citing files it obtained on the
offshore bank accounts and shell companies in tax shelters.
Shuvalov’s spokesman, Machevsky, declined to comment.  Shuvalov’s family unsealed their blind trust at the end of
last year and is gradually shifting accounts and assets to
Russia, Vedomosti said, citing two unidentified people with
knowledge of the matter.  Ownership Limits  A draft law banning officials from owning  bank deposits  and
assets abroad, excluding foreign property, passed the first
reading in February in the State Duma. Uproar over property
holdings abroad have dogged senior members of the lower house of
parliament this year, felling lawmakers including Vladimir
Pekhtin from the ruling United Russia party after bloggers
published documents showing he owned luxury real estate in
 Florida .  Putin, who returned to the Kremlin last year for third
term, has ordered the government to draft proposals to bring
about the “de-offshorization” of the economy, backing efforts
to repatriate as much as $1 trillion in capital held by
companies and high ranking officials abroad. Russia recorded
$54.1 billion in net capital outflows last year, according to
the central bank.  Last month, Shuvalov said  Russia  may ultimately benefit
from  Europe ’s decision to target deposit holders as part of a
bailout plan in Cyprus. By setting that precedent, Europe has
cast doubt on the reliability of its banks and makes Russia’s
financial system look comparatively more attractive, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  