-- Russia Risks Recession as Economic Growth Weakens, Belousov Says
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-04-12T17:31:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/russia-risks-recession-as-economic-growth-weakens-belousov-says.html
Russia ’s economy will face a
recession risk in the autumn unless it adopts stimulus measures,
Economy Minister Andrei Belousov said.  Russia expects growth to slow to 2.4 percent this year
compared with a previous estimate of 3.6 percent, according to
revised forecasts published by the  Economy Ministry  on its
website today. In the worst case scenario, gross domestic
product will increase 1.7 percent in 2013.  “We will propose economic stimulus measures,” Belousov
told reporters in the far eastern city of Blagoveshchensk today.
“We need to get out of the situation we are in to avoid
recession.” While Russia’s economy isn’t contracting, “there
is such a risk,” he said.  Russia, the world’s largest energy producer, faces an
economic slowdown as  Europe ’s debt crisis prompts companies to
cut investment. The expansion eased to 2.1 percent in the fourth
quarter of 2012, the slowest pace since a recession in 2009.
Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev ’s medium-term target is for 5
percent growth.  Belousov’s deputy,  Andrei Klepach , said there is a “real
slowdown” that started in the second quarter of last year and
is largely caused by weakening exports. While the risk of
recession exists, the economy probably “won’t slide into” it,
he told reporters in Moscow today.  One of the most important stimulus measures required is to
provide companies with better access to financing and lower
 interest rates , Klepach said. The Economy Ministry is also
arguing for tapping into one of the country’s two sovereign-
wealth funds for investments in the economy, he said.  GDP will expand 2.1 percent in the second quarter of the
year and about 3 percent in the second half, Klepach said.
First-quarter recorded estimated growth of 1.1 percent, he
added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  