-- Rutgers Gay-Slur Debacle Shows Sports Can Soil College Ambitions
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n ,   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r   a n d   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2013-04-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/rutgers-gay-slur-debacle-shows-sports-can-soil-college-ambitions.html
Two months into his presidency at
Rutgers University, Robert Barchi was overseeing the largest
reorganization at U.S. public colleges, including a medical
school merger. In a fateful decision, he chose not to watch a
video of the men’s basketball coach abusing players that later
horrified the nation.  Barchi became the latest college president to discover that
big-time athletics -- while a small part of massive
organizations -- can easily create a crisis that can derail a
leader’s ambitions and tarnish a school’s reputation. Similar
scandals have engulfed Ohio State University, Duke University,
the University of North Carolina and  Pennsylvania  State
University. Now the Rutgers scandal is endangering Barchi’s own
career, distracting from New Jersey Governor Chris Christie’s
plan for the biggest public university merger in U.S. history
and putting Christie on the defensive in his re-election.  The Rutgers crisis is an example of the risk involved with
big-time sports programs, especially for public-university
presidents facing steep budget cuts that monopolize their
energy, said Terry Hartle, senior vice president of the
Washington-based  American Council on Education , which represents
1,800 college presidents.  “It’s a cautionary tale for any new university leader,”
Hartle said in a telephone interview. “The potential for
intercollegiate athletics to create serious problems for
university presidents appears to be limitless.”  Christie Plan  Barchi was working to complete what Christie called the
largest public university merger in U.S. history, between
Rutgers and the  University of Medicine and Dentistry of New
Jersey , when he was told about the video of Rice taken during
practices from 2010 to 2012.  He left the investigation to Athletic Director Tim Pernetti, general counsel John Wolf and an outside law firm. The
group decided in December -- with Barchi’s support -- to suspend
Rice for three games and fine him $50,000. The video was aired
by ESPN’s “Outside the Lines” program on April 3 and Rice was
fired the following day.  Barchi, 66, received support from Christie, a Republican,
and Rutgers’s Board of Governors as calls for his firing came
from some faculty and students.  “You cannot micromanage every issue,” Christie said at an
April 8 press conference. “While I agree with Dr. Barchi that
he should have looked at the video tape, on the other hand I can
tell you that’s not his main responsibility as president of the
university.”  Delegate Word  Barchi said at an April 5 news conference to announce the
resignation of Pernetti and the demotion of Wolf that while
running an organization the size of Rutgers, which has 40,000
students, he often is forced to rely upon those that report to
him rather than examining issues himself. Wolf resigned
yesterday.  “This is one where I dearly wished I had,” Barchi said.
“If I had to do it again, I would have asked for that video.”  College sports scandals are wide-ranging in nature, often
developing due to rules infractions and sometimes from criminal
activity. Examples include the child sex-abuse case involving
former Penn State assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky and
accusations of rape, later proven false, against members of  the
lacrosse team at Duke, in Durham, North Carolina.  At the University of Notre Dame in South Bend,  Indiana , the
2010 death of a student assistant who fell from a video tower
during a football practice drew intense media interest, as did a
hoax last season involving a fake online girlfriend of
linebacker Manti Te’o.  Chancellor Leaving  Holden Thorp, chancellor of the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill, last September announced his intention
to resign at the end of June after college athletes and faculty
were implicated in an academic cheating scandal.  Rutgers spokesman Steve Manas and Duke spokesman Michael Schoenfeld said in e-mails that their schools declined to
comment about the athletic department scandals. Mike McFarland,
a spokesman at North Carolina, said Thorp was out of town and
unavailable for comment. Penn State spokeswoman Lisa Powers and
Notre Dame spokesman Dennis Brown didn’t return e-mails seeking
comment.  School administrators call athletic programs the “front
porch,” a public gateway to the broader organization, according
to  Angela Pratt , who teaches sports communication at Bradley
University in Peoria,  Illinois .  “They certainly know that’s not all there is to the
university, but it does leave a big impression,” Pratt, 35,
said in a telephone interview. “It garners more media attention
than almost anything else and certainly presidents have to pay
attention to that.”  Sandusky Case  Sandusky, a long-time defensive coordinator at Penn State
in State College, Pennsylvania, was sentenced to at least 30
years in prison for sexually abusing boys over a 15-year period,
some of them on campus. Joe Paterno was fired as coach after 46
seasons; Graham Spanier, once considered among the top
university presidents in the nation, also lost his job. Spanier
was charged with perjury, conspiracy and endangering the welfare
of children in a cover-up of the Sandusky abuse and is awaiting
trial.  Such job losses are rare. The Chronicle of Higher Education
reported in August 2011 that of the 29 presidents whose schools
were put on NCAA probation in the previous five years, 15 were
still running their universities, while the rest resigned for
reasons unconnected with the sports scandal or moved on to
schools of comparable or greater prestige.  Buckeye Tattoos  Ohio State President Gordon Gee kept his job in 2011 when
the school’s football team received a one-year bowl ban and
other penalties after it was learned that players received
$14,000 in cash and tattoos in exchange for autographed jerseys
and other memorabilia.  Gayle Saunders, a spokeswoman for Ohio State, declined to
comment on the case in an e-mail.  New presidents at schools with prominent athletic programs
need to know the culture they’re walking into, said Karen Holbrook, who was Columbus, Ohio-based Ohio State’s president
from 2002 to 2007. Holbrook said she was unprepared for the
fervor that surrounds Buckeyes sports.  “It’s very, very important to know how important it is,”
said Holbrook, now the vice president for research and
innovation at the University of South Florida in Tampa.  Holbrook said she met regularly with Ohio State’s general
counsel and Athletic Director Andy Geiger, and trusted them to
alert her to issues that warranted her attention. Those included
Title IX, the U.S. law mandating gender equity, as well as cases
of hazing or violence, “anything that would embarrass the
university or cause the trustees pain,” she said.  O’Brien Firing  Geiger recommended firing Ohio State men’s basketball coach
Jim O’Brien in 2004 after paying a recruit. O’Brien later won a
lawsuit against the university.  “It was an agonizing situation,” she said. “This isn’t
something you wanted to do because Jim was someone that was very
much admired. Andy knew he had to maintain the standards of the
university.”  Holbrook, who declined to discuss the Rutgers case in
detail, said she probably would have wanted to see the video of
Rice.  “I liked to know more than less,” she said. “I would
want to know what was going on.”  Biddy Martin, former chancellor at the University of
Wisconsin and now president at Amherst College in Amherst,
 Massachusetts , said she faced a crisis soon after joining the
Madison, Wisconsin-based school over alleged hazing by marching
band members. Like Barchi, she relied on advice of those who
reported to her, banning the band from a nationally televised
night game against Ohio State.  ‘Excellent Advice’  “I was new and didn’t understand the history, but I got
excellent advice,” Martin said in a telephone interview.  Presidents of big research universities must focus on tasks
such as running hospitals and medical schools, intellectual-
property transfer and orienting research toward practical
applications, Martin said.  “We have to find ways to ensure that athletics is not its
own dominion and doing that takes more than just a president,”
she said. “It takes establishing a team to ensure athletics can
be more easily folded into the core mission of the
institution.”  Pay Scale  Presidents of large universities usually aren’t compensated
as well as the football and basketball coaches they oversee.  University of Louisville President James Ramsey will
receive $600,000 this year, less than 10 percent of the $6.1
million in salary and bonuses due men’s basketball coach Rick Pitino, who led the Louisville, Kentucky-based school to the
NCAA title April 8.  “It is in some cases a little bit of an unfair fight,
regardless how much the president is officially in control,”
said University of  Georgia  President Michael Adams. “Coaches
with multimillion-dollar contracts, huge constituencies that can
apply pressure, you have to be careful how you interact so that
you are making the right decisions in managing the department
while keeping the whole institution moving forward with as few
distractions as possible.”  Presidents have 40 to 50 items on their to-do lists, each
critical in varying degrees to their constituencies, said Adams,
who is retiring in June.  “Athletics may or may not be near the top of the list on
any given day, but of course, their supporters believe it should
be and is,” Adams said in a telephone interview.  Sports Revenue  Athletic expenditures as a percentage of a university’s
total institutional budget range from 4 percent to 5 percent at
top-tier programs, according to the most recent NCAA  Revenue and
Expenses Report . The document also showed that 23 athletic
programs among more than 120 in the Football Bowl Subdivision,
the highest level, reported a profit in fiscal 2011, up one from
the previous year. Median generated income for all in the group
was $38.8 million.  Rutgers’ athletic department accounted for 3.4 percent of
the school’s $1.89 billion in spending for the 2012 fiscal year,
according to the athletic department’s revenue and expense
report.  Rutgers’s move to the Big Ten Conference, which would bring
financial and academic benefits to the university, was also
probably on the mind of Barchi, Pernetti and others. A two-hour
meeting with more than 20 Rutgers officials including trustees
and board members on Dec. 14, three weeks after the change was
announced, focused on the conference move and revenue from its
marketing deal, the  Star-Ledger  of  Newark , New Jersey, said
yesterday.  Pernetti Praised  Pernetti discussed the allegations against Rice at the
meeting, according to the Star-Ledger, which obtained minutes of
the gathering. None of the participants recommended firing Rice,
and Barchi commended Pernetti and his department for handling
the case “appropriately,” the newspaper said.  Pernetti said in November at a  New York  University Sports &
Society panel that when he was hired as athletic director at
Rutgers in 2009, the school’s board asked him to promise nothing
bad would happen under his watch. He said he told his bosses he
couldn’t make that pledge.  “Human capital is what you can control,” Pernetti said in
 video  of the NYU event. “That’s the only piece you can truly
control anymore.”  Pernetti failed to control it. He hired Rice.  At Georgia, Athletic Director Greg McGarity reports
directly to Adams, who said ADs “need to be on the same
wavelength, so much that they develop a sixth sense for what I’d
want and need to know.”  “The president will ultimately be held accountable, and
should be,” Adams said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net ;
 John Hechinger  in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  