-- Rutgers Coach Abuse Scandal May Hurt Rating, Moody’s Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-04-12T17:02:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/rutgers-coach-abuse-scandal-may-hurt-rating-moody-s-says.html
The coach-abuse scandal at  Rutgers
University  is “credit negative” for the state school’s debt
because it raises questions about governance and management,
Moody’s Investors Service said.  The  New Jersey  university fired men’s basketball coach Mike Rice, who had 15 wins and 16 losses in the past season, on April
3 after video showed him kicking players and throwing balls at
them while hurling epithets, including gay slurs. His boss,
Athletic Director Tim Pernetti, resigned two days later.  The eighth-oldest U.S. college is investigating how the
men’s basketball program handled the claims of abusive behavior
after Rutgers four months ago suspended and fined Rice instead
of removing him, Moody’s said in a report today. Rutgers, based
in  New Brunswick , has more than 58,000 students on three
campuses.  “These events are credit negative for Rutgers because they
draw criticism from national media and public officials, raise
questions about governance and management practices at the
university, and strengthen the possibility of government
investigations and possible legal actions,” Edith Behr, a
Moody’s analyst, said in the report.  Moody’s placed Rutgers under review for possible downgrade
on Nov. 21 because of questions about how much debt it would
assume with the acquisition of the University of Medicine and
Dentistry of New Jersey, which becomes effective July 1. Moody’s
rates Rutgers’s $1.2 billion of debt Aa2, third highest.  Even with the potential of a rating cut, investors are
demanding less additional yield to buy Rutgers debt, using BVAL
pricing analysis. Rutgers bonds callable in May 2020 and due
four years later were valued at a yield spread of 0.85
percentage point above benchmark debt yesterday, compared with
1.1 percentage points Nov. 20, the day before Moody’s placed the
school under review for a possible downgrade, BVAL data show.  “The university takes seriously the behavior that came to
light in the men’s basketball program, and is continuing to take
steps to address concerns raised by the episode,” Steve Manas,
a Rutgers spokesman, said in a e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  