-- Salini Reaches 86 Percent Impregilo Stake, Paving Way for Merger
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-04-12T18:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/salini-reaches-86-percent-impregilo-stake-paving-way-for-merger.html
Salini SpA raised its stake in
 Impregilo SpA (IPG)  to more than 86 percent after its offer for the
holdings it didn’t own in  Italy ’s biggest builder was subscribed
to by four-fifths of the owners of the shares.  Salini, which also is based in Milan and owned just less
than 30 percent of Impregilo, obtained 80.8 percent of the
shares which it offered to buy, the Italian Stock Exchange said
in a regulatory filing. That means it now owns about 86.5
percent, according to Bloomberg calculations.  Salini last month offered 4 euros cash for each ordinary
share of Impregilo it didn’t own. The success of the offer,
valuing the company at 1.6 billion euros ($2.1 billion), paves
the way for a merger between the two businesses by year end.
Salini won control of Impregilo’s board in July and ousted
directors backed by IGLI, an  investment company  controlled by
Beniamino Gavio that also owned about 30 percent of the
construction company before tendering its shares within the
offer.  Salini offers construction and maintenance for
hydroelectric plants, dams, roads, bridges, underground
railways, airports and industrial buildings.  Impregilo builds tunnels and roads and is working on the
expansion of the Panama Canal. The company said March 11 that
net income more than tripled to 601 million euros last year
after the sale of a stake in Brazil-based motorway operator
Ecorodovias.  Impregilo’s shares fell 0.5 percent today to 3.974 euros
today, taking their year-to-date advance to 12.5 percent.  -- With assistance from Chiara Vasarri. Editors: James Kraus,
Karl Maier  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  