-- Ex-Credit Suisse CDO Chief Pleads Guilty to Conspiracy
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-04-12T22:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/serageldin-to-plead-guilty-to-conspiracy-his-lawyer-says.html
Kareem Serageldin, the ex-global
head of  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s structured credit trading
business, pleaded guilty to conspiracy, saying that when he
discovered subordinates falsifying the value of mortgage-backed
bonds in late 2007, he joined the scheme rather than stop it.  “Why did you do that?” U.S. District Judge Alvin Hellerstein asked Serageldin today in Manhattan federal court.  “To preserve my reputation in the bank at a time when
there was great financial turmoil in the marketplace,” he said.  Serageldin, 39, pleaded guilty today to a single count of
conspiracy to falsify Credit Suisse’s books and records, which
carries a maximum prison sentence of five years. Serageldin is
scheduled to be sentenced Aug. 2.  Under a plea agreement with the government, Serageldin
agreed to forfeit $1 million as proceeds of the crime. Both
sides agreed that federal sentencing guidelines, which aren’t
binding on the judge, call for Serageldin to get from four years
and nine months to five years in prison.  Sean Casey, Serageldin’s lawyer, declined to comment on his
client’s guilty plea after the hearing today.  Boost Bonuses  Prosecutors claimed Serageldin marked up the collateralized
debt obligations to meet targets and boost year-end bonuses for
his $5.35 billion trading book, which was known as “ABN1,” at
a time when the U.S. housing market was plummeting. After the
scheme was discovered, Credit Suisse took a $2.65 billion write-
down, according to the government. About $540 million of the
write-down was due to the ABN1 securities, according to the
government.  Last year, two of Serageldin’s former subordinates, David Higgs and Salmaan Siddiqui, pleaded guilty to overstating the
value of the mortgage-backed assets in ABN1 after the collapse
of the U.S. housing market. Both said they acted at Serageldin’s
direction and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors.  “While the real estate market was imploding and the
financial crisis emerging, Kareem Serageldin and his co-
conspirators concealed significant subprime mortgage-related
losses in order to secure multimillion dollar paydays,”
 Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement today.  Employees Fired  Credit Suisse, based in Zurich, fired all three employees
in 2008 and cooperated with the U.S. government’s investigation.  Serageldin was arrested outside the U.S. consulate in
 London  in September. He was taken into custody by the Federal
Bureau of Investigation April 5 after he was extradited from the
U.K. When charges were  announced  in February 2012, the U.S. said
Serageldin was a U.S. citizen. He said in court today that he’s
now a British citizen.  Serageldin was originally charged with falsifying books and
records and wire fraud in addition to the conspiracy count.  “I made a terrible mistake and I deeply regret my
conduct,” he told Hellerstein today.  The cases are U.S. v. Serageldin, 12-00090, U.S. v. Higgs,
12-cr-00088, and U.S. v. Siddiqui, 12-cr-00089, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 