-- Singapore Keeps Currency Gain as Inflation Outweighs Growth Sag
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-04-12T00:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/singapore-keeps-currency-gain-as-inflation-outweighs-growth-sag.html
Singapore ’s  central bank  said it
will retain the existing pace of currency appreciation to combat
lingering inflation, even after the economy unexpectedly
contracted last quarter.  “This policy stance is assessed to be appropriate for
containing inflationary pressures, anchoring inflation
expectations, and facilitating the restructuring of the economy
towards sustainable growth,” the Monetary Authority of
Singapore said today in a  statement  following its semi-annual
exchange-rate review. There will be no change to the slope and
width of the currency trading band that the MAS uses as its main
policy tool, the authority said. The level at which it is
centered will also remain unchanged, the MAS said.  The decision was forecast by 21 of 22 financial companies
surveyed by  Bloomberg News , while one said the central bank
would shift to a zero slope.  “Relatively loose financial conditions stemming from a low
interest rate environment and a tight labor market remain strong
underlying drivers of inflationary pressures,” Mark Tan,
Singapore-based economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote in
an e-mailed response to questions before today’s announcement.
“Medium-term inflation concerns remain the main underlying
driver of the MAS policy stance.”  The  Singapore dollar  fell 0.2 percent to S$1.2388 versus
its U.S. counterpart as of 8:04 a.m. local time. It has declined
1.4 percent this year.  Gross domestic product  shrank an annualized 1.4 percent in
the three months ended March 31 from the previous quarter, when
it climbed 3.3 percent, the Trade Ministry said today. The
median of 10 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for 1.7
percent expansion.  Inflation Quickening  A report last month showed  prices  climbed 4.9 percent in
February from a year earlier, the fastest pace since June and
more than double the 1.9 percent average in the past 20 years.
Singapore’s inflation rate compares with a 2.1 percent pace for
China and 2 percent for the U.S.  The MAS unexpectedly left policy unchanged at its previous
decision in October. It uses the  exchange rate  rather than
borrowing costs to conduct monetary policy, adjusting the pace
of appreciation or depreciation against an undisclosed trade-
weighted band of currencies by changing the slope, width and
center of the band. A flatter slope allows slower appreciation
or depreciation over time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  