-- Six EU Nations Seek Bank Detail Sharing; Austria Resists
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n ,   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-04-13T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/six-eu-nations-seek-sharing-of-bank-details-as-austria-resists.html
The European Union moved closer to
agreement on a coordinated clampdown on  tax evasion  as a total
of nine countries backed an initiative for automatic sharing of
bank details across borders.  The bloc’s six biggest nations won support from the
Netherlands, Belgium and  Romania  for their proposal to adopt the
U.S.’s  FATCA information-exchange  program, EU Tax Commissioner
Algirdas Semeta said in Dublin yesterday. Semeta also said the
27-nation EU is closing in on updates to a savings tax accord as
holdouts Luxembourg and  Austria  show willingness to compromise.  “I see a clear window of opportunity,” Semeta told
journalists on the long-delayed measure requiring nations to
exchange information on savings income across borders.
“Considering the strong political will, I think we’ll be able
to manage” an agreement on it by next month, he said.  Governments from the U.K. to  Poland  are eyeing what the
commission estimates is 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) of lost
tax revenue as many European nations struggle to narrow budget
deficits. Politics is also spurring the initiative, notably in
 France , where President  Francois Hollande ’s popularity has
slumped after his budget minister resigned and admitted having
an offshore bank account following months of denials.  No Place to Hide  The message to anyone avoiding taxes is that “the places
you can hide are getting smaller and smaller and fewer and
fewer,” U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said at
a joint press conference with his counterparts from Germany,
France, Italy, Spain and Poland. That followed a meeting of EU
finance ministers in the Irish capital.  Luxembourg, one of the countries that previously resisted
giving up its banking secrecy rules, dropped its opposition
April 10, though Finance Minister Luc Frieden said yesterday
that he wants  Europe  to win broader global support for the
initiative within the Group of 20 nations.  “We will play a very constructive part in this,” Frieden
said in an interview. Yet we need to “ensure a level playing
field. Our partners in the G-20 must make sure that the new
trend we see, the automatic exchange of information, will become
the global standard. Otherwise, we risk the delocalization of
capital out of Europe.”  The position of Austria, the other EU nation that has
defended banking secrecy, may also be shifting.  Tax Paradise  Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter lashed out in front
of reporters at the U.K. for harboring “money-laundering
paradises” and said the U.S. needs to reciprocate any European
initiative by handing over information from the “ tax havens ”
of Delaware and  Nevada . Still, she didn’t voice opposition to
plans in the meeting, Semeta said.  “Austria is seriously considering the way ahead,” he
said. “She didn’t say anything against the proposals, and I
consider that progress.”  Semeta said the European Commission has years of technical
work ready to service the “surge” in political interest in the
sharing of bank information across borders. While a European
system may not replicate the U.S.’s FATCA system exactly, it can
probably be made compatible, he said.  The commission will bring a plan for EU finance ministers
to consider May 14. If approved, it can then be considered by
the bloc’s leaders at a Brussels summit on May 22.  “The tools are already on the table waiting to be
seized,” Semeta said. This is “about fairness and EU
solidarity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Dublin at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Dublin at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Dublin at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  