-- SolarCity Sees Energy Storage ‘Viable’ Within 10 Years, CEO Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-04-12T20:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/solarcity-sees-energy-storage-viable-within-10-years-ceo-says.html
SolarCity Corp. (SCTY) , the solar power
provider led by billionaire Elon Musk, will complete about 100
energy storage systems for customers this year and plans to
expand as costs decline, according to its chief executive
officer.  “It’ll be a viable product in the next ten years,”
SolarCity CEO Lyndon Rive said today in an interview in San
Francisco. “We don’t know yet how big the next phase is going
to be, but this is a long term investment, full stop,” he said.
“We will solve the storage issue.”  The  San Mateo , California-based company is installing 8
kilowatt-hour battery packs provided by  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  and
combining them with energy management systems that allow for
remote monitoring. Storage will be crucial to balance the U.S.
electric grid as solar expands from 1 percent of total
generation capacity today, according to Rive.  “The criticism that solar gets is that it’s intermittent,
that you can’t depend on it, but at 1 percent it still doesn’t
matter,” Rive said. “Once you get to 20 percent, it starts to
matter,” he said.  Rooftop solar systems that SolarCity provides don’t have
the same risk of dropping off in large amounts from the grid,
though that is an issue with larger utility-scale systems,
according to Rive.  “The fear of intermittency actually comes from large
central solar,” he said. “We can forecast very accurately what
power you’re going to produce based on the weather conditions
that we see,” he said.  SolarCity has 395 energy storage “pilots” under contract,
according to a filing March 27.  Musk is Tesla’s CEO as well as SolarCity’s chairman and
it’s largest shareholder. Rive is his cousin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  