-- South Africa Debt, Lloyds Traders, Netflix: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-04-12T12:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/south-africa-debt-lloyds-traders-netflix-media-use-compliance.html
A plan to give investors the same
level of protection when buying South African investment-grade
corporate debt as they get with  junk bonds  is dividing the
nation’s money managers.  The proposals being debated include limits on further
borrowing, which will enhance the safety of the debt, said Jason
Lightfoot, a portfolio manager at Futuregrowth Asset Management.
Stricter covenants may reduce the bond market’s attraction as
issuers will have to maintain the debt safeguards on an ongoing
basis, Investec Asset Management’s Simon Howie said.  The  Association for Savings and Investment South Africa ,
whose members together manage about 4 trillion rand ($450
billion), is debating standardized debt covenants, the Cape
Town-based body said by e-mail.  Prudent underwriting practices have deteriorated with the
inclusion of so-called covenant-light transactions and less-
than-satisfactory risk management practices, according to March
22 guidance from the U.S. Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
Covenant-light loans carry fewer safeguards for creditors such
as limits on how much debt a company can add to its balance
sheet.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU Set to Approve ECB Bank Oversight Law, Ireland’s Noonan Says  European Union nations are set to back laws to hand the
European Central Bank oversight powers, even as Germany
considers making a declaration voicing its concerns about the
legal basis of the plans,  Michael Noonan , Ireland’s finance
minister, told reporters.  Noonan said he’s confident that the measures will be
approved at a two-day meeting of the bloc’s finance ministers
that begins today in Dublin, Ireland. Germany’s declaration may
be published alongside the draft law, he said.  EU leaders called last year for the ECB to take on
oversight powers to help break the link between  banks (BEBANKS)  and
governments. The adoption of the legislation enshrining the new
powers snagged last month when Germany requested a series of
changes to the draft accord.  OCC Asks for Enforcement Powers Against Banks’ Consulting Firms  The U.S. regulator for national banks wants Congress to
expand the agency’s authority to sanction independent consulting
firms for wrongdoing in their work for lenders.  Daniel P. Stipano, deputy chief counsel for the Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency, made remarks on the subject in
testimony prepared for a Senate Banking subcommittee hearing in
Washington yesterday.  Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, is holding the
hearing amid scrutiny of consultants such as Promontory
Financial Group LLC and Deloitte & Touche LLP over their roles
in a failed review of banks’ faulty U.S. foreclosures. He said
the committee should consider the OCC’s plea for heightened
enforcement powers, and he said he hoped “to clarify the foggy
relationship” between consultants and regulators.  In enforcement settlements, regulators often require banks
to hire consultants to perform or review fixes. Stipano said it
would be useful for regulators to have additional reach into
that work, and also to have jurisdiction when banks outsource
work to consultants.  Facing the 2011 review of potential errors in more than 4
million foreclosures, the OCC and Fed put the task in the hands
of independent consultants. When the process did not produce
compensation to harmed borrowers after 18 months, regulators
scrapped the initial approach in favor of a $9.3 billion
settlement, saying that too much money had been paid to
consultants.  For more, click here.  SEC Crowdfunding Delay Faulted for Stunting Business Growth  U.S. small-business growth is being stunted by regulators’
delay in issuing rules to permit so-called crowdfunding and
other means of raising capital, company owners and an academic
told lawmakers.  The  House Small Business Committee  held a hearing yesterday
in Washington to examine the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s work to implement the Jumpstart Our Business
Startups Act, enacted last year with the goal of spurring job
creation. The SEC has missed deadlines for writing rules
including ones that would let  hedge funds  advertise for
investors and allow startups to raise money over the Internet.  The hearing underscored frustration among lawmakers and
business owners over the lack of progress on the rules. SEC
Chairman Mary Jo White, who took the agency’s helm April 10, has
said she will prioritize completion of the rules.  SEC officials didn’t disclose when they will issue the new
rules, according to their prepared testimony. They said the
agency has released guidance to help companies use portions of
the law that don’t require rulemaking.  Lona Nallengara, the SEC’s acting director of corporation
finance, said in a statement that the commission and staff “are
moving forward on various rule-makings” and “look forward to
completing the remaining provisions as soon as practicable.”  The JOBS Act generally limits equity crowdfunding
investments to the greater of $2,000 per person or five percent
of one’s annual income or net worth. People with more than
$100,000 in annual income can invest as much as 10 percent of
their income or net worth.  The SEC is considering allowing people to self-certify to a
brokerage or crowdfunding portal how much they can invest,
reducing paperwork requirements, Nallengara told the committee.  Compliance Action  Lloyds Banking Said to Probe Two Traders Over Libor-Rigging  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the second-largest U.K.
government owned lender, is probing two money-markets traders
over their alleged role in the rigging of  interest rates , three
people familiar with the matter said.  Andrew Reed , who had input the firm’s submissions to the
yen London interbank offered rate, was put on leave in June over
allegations he held improper discussions about the benchmark,
said two of the people, who asked not to be identified because
the investigation isn’t yet complete. The firm is also probing
communications by Andrew Doe, a yen cash-trader and rate setter
who left the bank in the middle of 2009, the people said.  “As with many others in the sector, the group is assisting
various regulators in their ongoing investigations into the
setting of Libor,” Lloyds said in a statement. “Until these
investigations are completed, it would be inappropriate for us
to comment any further.” Both Reed and Doe weren’t contactable
through directory assistance and Internet searches.  The two traders are the current focus of regulators’ probes
into Lloyds’s involvement in attempts to manipulate the
benchmark for more than $300 trillion of securities worldwide,
one of the people said. The London-based lender is unlikely to
reach a settlement with regulators this year, one of the people
said. So far, the probe has uncovered no evidence that senior
managers were involved, the people said.  For more, click here.  Netflix Lists Facebook, Twitter as News Outlets After Ruling  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the subscription video-streaming service,
said it may use Facebook and Twitter to release material
information now that U.S. regulators have cleared the practice.  The company listed the social-media services operated by
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Twitter Inc. as possible outlets for news in a
 regulatory filing  April 10 and said it will continue to make
financial announcements on its website, in filings and in press
releases.  The move furthers Chief Executive Officer  Reed Hastings ’s
role in legitimizing the use of social media to disseminate
financial information. The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission last week ended an investigation of Hastings and the
company, clearing them for his Facebook posts that regulators
deemed material. The new guidelines clear companies to use
Facebook and Twitter as long as investors are notified first.  In its filing, the company said it may release material
information on its Facebook or Twitter feeds, Hastings’s
Facebook page or on the Netflix Blog and Netflix Tech Blog.  Hastings, 52, stirred controversy over SEC disclosure rules
when he wrote in a July 3 post on Facebook that viewing on
Netflix’s streaming service had “exceeded 1 billion hours for
the first time” in June. Hastings serves as a  director  at
Facebook.  Hastings said in a January interview at Bloomberg’s  New
York  headquarters that he’s “not going to back down and say
it’s inappropriate. I think it’s perfectly fine. Sometimes
you’re just the example that triggers the debate.”  For more, click here.  Luxembourg Plans to Sell Stake in BGL BNP Paribas to Cut Debt  Luxembourg plans to sell its minority stake in BGL  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP) , the country’s second-largest retail bank, to reduce
debt before a $2.6 billion bond matures in December.  Luxembourg still owns 34 percent of BGL BNP Paribas, which
it acquired in the first government attempt to rescue Fortis in
2008 by converting 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion) of debt into
equity of Fortis’s local banking subsidiary.  BNP Paribas SA, based in Paris, controls BGL BNP Paribas
through its Belgian unit BNP Paribas Fortis SA. The largest
French bank also bought a direct stake of almost 16 percent in
BGL from the Luxembourg government in an all-share transaction
in May 2009 that gave the country a  1 percent  holding in BNP
Paribas.  Bank Risk Models to Face Further Basel Probe on Capital Concerns  Banks face further scrutiny from global regulators into
their risk models amid concerns lenders are underestimating the
amount of capital they need to cope with losses.  Initial studies of how lenders measure risk on assets they
intend to trade as well as those they intend to hold to maturity
found “substantial” differences in the amount of capital
different banks hold against identical securities, the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  said  in a report to finance
ministers from the Group of 20 nations and central bank chiefs.  Banks’ modeling choices are a “key source of variation,”
the group said. “Further analysis is therefore under way, and
areas where Basel committee standards might be modified to
reduce excessive variation are becoming apparent.” The
committee is considering tightening its rules to narrow banks’
freedom to design models and said it’s also weighing the need
for tougher scrutiny by supervisors and stronger disclosure
requirements.  The Basel committee is reviewing banks’ risk models as part
of its oversight of how well nations are implementing an
overhaul of capital rules. The requirements it sets are measured
as a percentage of lenders’ risk-weighted assets. The latest
round, known as Basel III, states that banks should have core
reserves equivalent to 7 percent of their RWAs.  Courts/Tribunals  Broker Defrauded NFL, NBA Players, Industry Regulator Says  Success Trade Securities, Inc. was sued by the brokerage
industry’s self-regulator over claims it sold fraudulent
promissory notes to professional athletes.  Fuad Ahmed, the chief executive officer of the Washington-
based firm, raised more than $18 million since 2009 from 58
investors, many of whom are current or former players in the
 National Football League  and  National Basketball Association ,
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority said in a complaint
issued yesterday.  Finra, which didn’t disclose the names of the harmed
investors, filed a temporary cease-and-desist order to halt the
alleged misuse of investors’ funds and assets.  Ahmed sold promissory notes offering annual interest rates
ranging from 12 percent to 26 percent, Finra said. To meet the
monthly interest obligations, the brokerage issued and sold
additional notes to new and existing investors, according to the
complaint.  A phone call and e-mail to the firm were not immediately
returned.  Interviews/Speeches  Wheatley Says Structured Products Like Spread Bets ‘on Steroids’  Structured products are a “perfect example” of securities
where banks have overloaded investors with information without
ensuring they understand the risks,  according to  the head of a
new U.K. regulator.  The products, which typically package debt with
derivatives, have “often been mind-bogglingly complicated
financial gambles,” according to Martin Wheatley, chief
executive of the  Financial Conduct Authority . They are “almost
like spread bets on steroids,” he said in a speech April 10.  Regulators in the U.S. and Europe are seeking to increase
transparency for the securities after they came under scrutiny
following the financial crisis in 2008 for being overly complex.
Rules requiring banks in the European Union to provide concise
information outlining the characteristics and risks of the
products they sell could be in place by the end of 2014,
according to the European Commission.  Wheatley highlighted a so-called auto-callable structured
note where investors lock up money for between one and six years
with their returns dependent on the share prices of three
technology companies, as an example of a complex product.  Enria Calls for Binding Rules on Cross-Border Bank Loss-Sharing  The European Union needs “clear and binding criteria” for
sharing losses when cross-border banks fail, European Banking
Authority Chairman Andrea Enria said.  Enria called on the EU to avoid “exclusive reliance” on
national budgets and nationally oriented bailouts for banking
woes, according to an article prepared for a conference in
Dublin yesterday that was obtained by  Bloomberg News . That has
hurt cross-border banking activity as regulators and banks have
retreated within national borders, he said.  The Brussels-based European Commission is developing plans
for a single resolution authority to handle bank failures within
the  euro zone  and other nations that sign on for oversight by
the  European Central Bank , which is due to become the currency
bloc’s bank supervisor next year.  Enria urged the EU to broaden the resolution plans to
include all 27 EU nations, including those like the U.K. that
neither use the euro nor plan to join the ECB oversight regime.  Comings and Goings  RBS Japan Unit Chief Resigns as Bank Punished for Libor Breach  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s Japan brokerage head
resigned after the country’s financial regulator punished the
unit for attempts to manipulate benchmark interest rates.  RBS Securities Japan Ltd.  country representative Ryusuke
Otani left the firm today and was replaced by Shoji Taniguchi,
it said in a  statement  on its website. The Financial Services
Agency ordered the firm to improve operations, the regulator
said in a separate statement.  The punishment comes two months after the unit pleaded
guilty to wire fraud as part of a $612 million settlement with
the U.K. and U.S. for rigging the London interbank offered rate.
More than a dozen banks and brokers are being probed worldwide
for influencing benchmarks including Libor, the benchmark for at
least $300 trillion of securities.  RBS must submit a report to the FSA by May 13 describing
how it will improve compliance and prevent a recurrence, the
regulator said.  For more, click here.  High-Speed Trader Said to Be Under Consideration for SEC Post  Chris Concannon, an executive at high-frequency trading
firm Virtu Financial LLC, is under consideration to oversee
trading and markets at the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, according to people briefed on the discussions.  Concannon met April 10 with the new SEC chairman, Mary Jo
White, to discuss the opening, said the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the meeting was private.  In the 1990s, Concannon worked at the SEC in the same
division, which monitors exchanges, brokerages and dark pools,
where prices aren’t publicly displayed. A partner and executive
vice president at Virtu, Concannon has held top jobs at early
electronic trading platforms and at  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)   White, an ex-prosecutor, lacks expertise in market
regulation and has identified high-frequency trading and market
complexity as priorities for her term at the SEC, which began
April 10. Concannon, with his inside view of automated modern
markets, would be a departure for a division that has typically
been run by attorneys with little trading experience.  Concannon, 45, wouldn’t comment about his talks to run the
SEC’s Trading and Markets Division. SEC spokesman  John Nester 
also declined to comment.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  