-- Spartan Racers to Climb Walls at Citi Field While Mets Are Away
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-12T14:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/spartan-racers-to-climb-walls-at-citi-field-while-mets-are-away.html
Joe De Sena’s ultimate goal is to
have a  Spartan Race  included in the Olympics. For now, the
Queens native who founded the obstacle racing series is happy to
have the sport at New York’s Citi Field.  While the  New York Mets  are on a nine-game road trip, their
stadium tomorrow will welcome about 12,000 participants willing
to test themselves on 15 physical and mental obstacles over a
three-mile course.  More than 1.5 million people competed in obstacle-style
races in 2012, up from fewer than than 50,000 in 2010, and the
Citi Field event is one of more than 60 Spartan races scheduled
for this year around  North America . The series, which had more
than 350,000 entrants in 2012 and is similar to events such as
the Tough Mudder or Warrior Dash, was created by the 43-year-old
De Sena, who said he founded a multimillion-dollar swimming
pool-cleaning business while he was in college and is now
managing director for  Wall Street  brokerage agency ICAP Plc.  “We’ll probably have a couple thousand people from Wall
Street coming out to Citi Field,” said De Sena, whose passion
for endurance events has led him to participate in 12 Ironman
triathlons in a single year. “It’s an introduction to the sport
to a different crowd. If we get to touch a bunch of people who
otherwise wouldn’t have driven out that extra 30 or 60 minutes
to an event, then we’ve done our job.”  De Sena, who proposed to his wife during an endurance
event, said  Spartan Races  are a perfect fit for the Type-A
personalities found on Wall Street.  ‘Extra Bonus’  “We’ve been watching it since the movie Wall Street in the
’80s where guys are questioning their existence and what they’re
doing for a living,” De Sena said. “So they get the extra
bonus of actually doing something productive. It just doesn’t
feel right sitting in front of a computer 10 hours a day. They
get to apply not only their mind, but their body.”  Unlike some Spartan Race courses with obstacles that
include mud pits, barbed wire, water and fire, the Citi Field
event will be more tame. Participants will have to climb walls
and cargo nets, and run stadium steps while carrying added
weight from sandbags. Although the Mets are away from Citi Field
from April 8-18, organizers will have only 24 hours to set up
and break down the course, a process De Sena likened to setting
up for a concert.  The entry fee ranged from $100 to $135 and participants
will compete in waves of 200 competitors starting every 15
minutes from 8 a.m. local time to about 9:30 p.m.  Outside Events  The Spartan Race is among 900 events held at Citi Field on
non-game days since 2009, functions ranging from concerts, trade
shows and college lacrosse games to weddings, festivals and
corporate meetings. While the Spartan Race participants are
inside Citi Field,  Cirque du Soleil’s Totem  shows will be held
in the stadium parking lot this weekend.  Heather Collamore, the executive director of Metropolitan
Hospitality at Citi Field, said with 81 home games for the Mets,
the stadium is able to average more than one non-baseball event
for each of the 284 non-game days each year.  De Sena said about 40 percent of Spartan Race participants
are women, and that he gets several e-mails a day from people
who share how the event changed the way they perceive challenges
they face on a daily basis. Obstacles are designed to get
competitors out of their comfort zone, he says.  ‘Obstacle Immunity’  “We say it helps build obstacle immunity,” De Sena said.
“We put you up against a wall, literally, and you and your
friends see how you react against those obstacles. You then
start to react differently to the stupid little obstacles in
life like coffee being too cold, the car not starting, minor
things where you used to get frustrated.”  De Sena said while his Spartan Races will exceed $50
million in revenue globally this year, “we put every dollar and
a few extra back in each month as we are choosing to invest in
Spartan over being profitable.”  As popularity for obstacle-style races grows, De Sena said
he hopes that his series can make the jump to the Olympics,
whose motto is “Faster, Higher, Stronger.”  The  International Olympic Committee  reviews every event
following the games, and in February the IOC’s executive board
voted to drop wrestling from the program for the 2020 Olympics.
Wrestling still has a chance to rally support and will be among
eight sports vying for inclusion at the 2020 Games.  Golf and rugby sevens will join the Olympic program at the
2016 Games in Rio de Janeiro.  De Sena is looking even further into the future for an
obstacle-style event like the Spartan Race to be considered for
the Olympics.  “To do so, you have to have set standards,” De Sena said.
“What barbed wire should look like, what a wall should look
like, what fire should look like as an obstacle. We’ve got 30 or
40 set obstacles and we know how we want them to work. It’s an
Olympic sport in the making. If they have ping pong and curling
in the Olympics, they should have Spartan racing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  