-- Sugar Seen Lower With Hedge Funds Most Bearish Ever: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-04-12T19:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/sugar-seen-lower-with-hedge-funds-most-bearish-ever-commodities.html
Sugar traders are the most bearish
in nine weeks and hedge funds are making their biggest ever bet
on lower prices on mounting concern that record supply from
 Brazil  will extend a global glut.  Seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices to fall
next week, three forecast gains and two were neutral, making the
proportion of bears the highest since Feb. 8. The sweetener slid
to a 2 1/2-year low of 17.47 cents a pound on April 3 and
speculators have been betting on a decline since Jan. 22, U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  Supply of the commodity, which tumbled into a bear market
in September, is outpacing demand for a third year, Rabobank
International estimates. Output in the main growing region of
Brazil, the biggest exporter, will reach an all-time high in the
season that began this month, the government predicts. Morgan
Stanley raised its surplus estimate by 31 percent on April 8
partly on rising output in  India , the second-biggest producer.  “The world doesn’t need any more sugar, and the surplus
for this season has got bigger,” said  Kona Haque , an analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd. in  London  who expects a drop toward 17
cents in the next three months. “Prices will need to fall more
to send the signals for Brazilian millers to make less sugar and
focus on ethanol,” which is also derived from cane.  Sugar Price  Raw sugar fell 8.6 percent to 17.84 cents on the ICE
Futures U.S. exchange in New York this year, extending two years
of declines. A third year of losses would be the worst run since
1992. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 commodities lost
3.6 percent since the start of January, and the MSCI All-Country
World Index of equities rose 7.1 percent. Treasuries returned
0.2 percent, a Bank of America Corp.  index (MXWD)  shows.  Sugar closed more than 20 percent below its July 20 peak on
Sept. 5, the common definition of a bear market, and fell
another 6.2 percent since then. Hedge funds had a net-short
position of 79,070 futures and options as of April 2, the most
according to CFTC data going back to June 2006. They were net-
long by as much as 129,999 contracts in July.  The size of the net-short position may cause prices to
rally should there be a change in the outlook for supply or
demand because it would spur  speculators  to close out their
holdings by buying contracts, Macquarie’s Haque said. The bank
raised its forecast for the surplus to about 10 million metric
tons this month, from a February estimate of 8.5 million tons.  Brazil Record  Production in Brazil’s center south will be a record 39.2
million tons this season, the government said April 9. That’s
higher than the 34 million to 35.2 million tons forecast by a
Bloomberg survey of six mill owners that make up about a third
of the area’s supply.  Rabobank already expects this year’s glut will reach 8.53
million tons, with stockpiles accounting for 43 percent of world
usage, the highest level in five years.  Mexico  and  Thailand  will
also produce more than previously forecast, according to Mexican
industry group Conadesuca and broker Marex Spectron Group.  Mexico will produce a record 6.2 million tons of sugar in
the 2012-13 season, Isaac Cain Lascano, deputy director of trade
policy at industry group Conadesuca, said by phone on March 11.
That’s up from a November forecast of 5.7 million tons.  Thailand’s sugar production will be “just under” 10
million tons in 2012-13, Marex Spectron said in a report on
April 8. That’s up from a forecast of 9.2 million tons a month
ago, Paul Bannister, head of sugar brokerage at the company,
said.  “With the start of the new center south Brazil crop upon
us, the bigger Thai and Indian crops, buyers are now much more
likely to hold back and wait as prices fall,” said Tom McNeill,
a director at Green Pool Commodity Specialists Pty. in Brisbane.  Sweet Treats  There are signs demand may increase before the start of the
Muslim holy month of Ramadan in July. While people fast during
daylight hours, sweet treats are common at night. Premiums being
paid to secure raw sugar in Thailand are their highest since
August because so much is being refined for exports before
Ramadan, German researcher F.O. Licht said in an April 4 report.  Egypt ’s state-run Sugar and Integrated Industries Co.
bought 50,000 tons of raw sugar, the first purchase since
September, an official at the company said earlier this week.
Iraq is also tendering for 50,000 tons, the Trade Ministry said
April 10.  Favor Biofuels  Declining sugar prices and rising ethanol returns may spur
more millers to favor biofuel production. The price of hydrous
ethanol, the pure biofuel used in flex fuel cars in Brazil, is
20.6 cents a pound, said Patricia Luis-Manso, an analyst at
researcher Kingsman SA. That’s 15 percent more than raw sugar
futures today on ICE. Center-south millers will direct 46.5
percent of the sugar cane harvested to making sweetener, down
from 49.5 percent last year, Kingsman estimates.  Rain in Brazil’s center south is delaying the start of the
crop, and may result in millers making even more biofuel at the
start of the season, Luis-Manso said from Lausanne, Switzerland.
There may not be enough time to process all the cane, she said.  Cosan SA Industria & Comercio (CSAN3) , which shares control of the
world’s biggest sugarcane processor with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
said Feb. 6 that fourth-quarter profit rose as it expanded into
energy. The company’s shares gained 4.4 percent in Sao Paulo
this year, reaching a more than six-year high March 5.  Grain Survey  In other commodities, 16 of 29 people surveyed anticipate
higher corn prices next week and 11 said the grain will drop,
while 13 of 30 said soybeans will rise and 12 expect a decline.
Twelve of 26 traders predicted higher wheat prices and the same
number were bearish. Corn slid 8.2 percent to $6.4125 a bushel
this year as soybeans lost 2.2 percent to $13.7925 a bushel in
 Chicago . Wheat is down 7.5 percent at $7.195 a bushel.  Seven of those surveyed said copper will slide next week,
four predicted gains and three were neutral. The metal for
delivery in three months, the London Metal Exchange’s benchmark
contract, fell 6.6 percent to $7,406.50 a ton this year.  Fourteen of 31 traders surveyed said gold would decline
next week and 11 were bullish. Bullion slid 11 percent to
$1,487.96 an ounce in London since the start of January, after
climbing for a 12th consecutive year in 2012 as nations pledged
more stimulus to bolster economic growth. Investors have cut
holdings in exchange-traded products to the lowest since August,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Minutes of the Federal Reserve’s March meeting released
April 10 showed several members were in favor of pulling back on
its $85 billion monthly debt-buying program this year. That
compares with  Bank of Japan (8301)  policy makers who said April 4 they
would boost monthly debt purchases. The International Monetary
Fund is predicting global growth of 3.5 percent in 2013, from
3.2 percent in 2012. The S&P GSCI gauge of raw materials reached
a five-month low on April 5.  “From a commodity perspective the state of the economy is
much more important than money printing,” said Filip Petersson,
a commodities strategist at SEB AB in  Stockholm . “Gold is
likely to drift lower on better macro conditions in spite of
quantitative easing. In general, we expect commodity prices to
print their year lows in the second quarter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  