-- Suntech Short Positions Closed After Bankruptcy Cuts Stock Price
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2013-04-12T21:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/suntech-short-positions-closed-as-bankruptcy-cut-stock-price.html
Short interest in  Suntech Power
Holdings Co. (STP)  has plunged to its lowest level since 2007,
suggesting investors have closed out positions betting it will
decline after the Chinese solar company’s main unit went
bankrupt.  The portion of outstanding American depositary receipts
 sold short  fell to as little as 2.2 percent on April 3 from 6.5
percent on March 18, according to data from Markit Group Ltd., a
London-based researcher. The percentage was 3.2 percent April
11.  “Short sellers have gradually covered their positions in
Suntech, taking profits as the stock neared zero,” Alex Brog, a
director at Markit, said by phone. “Now that the shares can’t
fall much further, almost all are out.” Suntech’s ADRs are each
worth one ordinary share.  Suntech, once the top solar panel manufacturer, may become
the largest renewable-energy insolvency after its main unit was
pulled into bankruptcy proceedings in  China  on March 20. The
ADRs that reached as high as $88 in January 2008 fell to as
little as 36 cents on April 1 and closed at 75 cents in New York
yesterday.  Short sellers profit by selling stock they’ve borrowed and
recouping the cost later when the price of the share has fallen.
Short interest for the Wuxi, China-based company, which started
trading in mid-2006, reached almost 20 percent two years ago.
Solar shares are the most shorted of any industry, Brog said.  China Shorts  Short positions on most Chinese solar stocks have been
easing since 2011. The surge in  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) ’s shares
starting with an April 9 forecast for higher-than-expected sales
helped boost shares across the industry this week.  Yingli Green Energy Holding (YGE)  Co. Ltd., the largest panel
maker, rose 21 percent on April 9. About 9.9 percent of Yingli
shares were sold short April 11 compared with 4.9 percent for
 LDK Solar (LDK)  Co. Ltd.  “If you’re short of stock and you’re confident it’s going
to go to zero, you’re incentivized to stay short the stock,”
said Gordon Johnson, an analyst at Axiom Capital Management Inc.
in New York. For Suntech, he said, “somebody must have assumed
that positive news would come out and the stock would be
volatile and probably just wanted to close out short
positions.”  Overall, short positions in the industry are much lower
than in past years because the companies’ capitalizations are
now well below the limit for most of the biggest funds, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  