-- U.S. Antitrust Plea Deals Won’t Name Non-Culpable People
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-04-12T14:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/u-s-antitrust-plea-deals-won-t-name-non-culpable-people.html
The U.S.  Justice Department ’s
antitrust division said it will stop publicly naming individuals
associated with corporate antitrust plea agreements who aren’t 
believed to be culpable in any alleged wrongdoing, according to
a statement.  The names of so-called carved-out employees, which included
those who refused to cooperate with a probe, are currently
included in publicly filed corporate plea deals, Assistant U.S.
Attorney General Bill Baer said today in an e-mailed statement.  “The division will continue to carve out employees who we
have reason to believe were involved in criminal wrongdoing and
who are potential targets of our investigation,” Baer said.
“However, we will no longer carve out employees for reasons
unrelated to culpability.”  Employees against whom the government is still developing
evidence, or employees with “potentially relevant information”
who can’t be located, will be omitted from the publicly filed
portion of plea agreements.  In the past, corporate plea agreements have included a
provision offering non-prosecution protection to those employees
who cooperate and whose conduct doesn’t warrant prosecution. The
division excluded, or carved out, employees who were believed to
be culpable from such receiving non-prosecution deals.  Baer said the division will continue to exclude from non-
prosecution agreements any employees whose conduct may warrant
prosecution.  Those decisions will be made on an “employee-by-employee
basis” depending on the evidence, he said.  “We will continue to demand the full cooperation of anyone
who seeks to benefit from the non-prosecution protection of a
corporate plea agreement, and will revoke that protection for
anyone who does not fully and truthfully cooperate with division
investigations,” Baer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  