-- U.S. House Clears Bill Obscuring Federal Workers’ Assets
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-04-12T19:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/u-s-house-clears-bill-obscuring-federal-workers-assets.html
Detailed financial disclosures from
senior federal employees and congressional aides wouldn’t be
posted in searchable online databases under legislation sent
today to President  Barack Obama  for his signature.  The bill, S. 716, was hurriedly introduced and passed in
the Senate without a roll-call vote yesterday to get ahead of an
April 15 deadline for financial transaction reports to be posted
online. The bill passed the House today the same way.  Federal employee groups had lobbied for the change, saying
that easy access to personal financial information could lead to
harassment or make the workers more vulnerable to identity
theft. Critics faulted the measure for undermining a law, called
the Stock Act, aimed at preventing profits from trading
securities based on inside information.  The bill is an “epic failure” by lawmakers that “sets an
extraordinarily dangerous precedent suggesting that any risks
stem not from information being public but from public
information being online,”  wrote  Lisa Rosenberg, government
affairs consultant for the Washington-based Sunlight Foundation,
which advocates for government transparency.  Intrusive Disclosures  The bill would modify requirements to deal with concerns
raised in a  March 28 report  by the National Academy of Public
Administration, which found that detailed online disclosures
would pose a security risk to government employees and make them
more vulnerable to identity theft.  The Office of Government Ethics, the agency that oversees
the federal financial disclosure system, made a similar
recommendation in an  April 5 letter  to congressional leaders.  Carol Bonosaro, president of the Senior Executives
Association, said the disclosures were intrusive and could
compromise security. “You really don’t want to put people in
the position where you’ll harm them for no good reason,”
Bonosaro, whose organization represents career federal
executives, said by telephone.  Steve Ellis, vice president of the Washington-based
watchdog group Taxpayers for Common Sense, said lawmakers should
have delayed implementation of the rules, rather than striking
whole categories of those affected. “There is a valid public
interest in being assured that staff and federal employees in a
position to know insider information are not profiting from that
information,” he said.  Followed Recommendations  “We followed exactly what the NAPA report recommended and
OGE told us,” Adam Jentleson, spokesman for Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said by e-mail.  The bill flew through Congress in less than two days and
with little disclosure. Reid introduced it Thursday and copies
of the text weren’t publicly available until after the Senate
had agreed to pass it by unanimous consent, with no roll-call
vote. The House cleared it today with a similar procedure.  “It is possible that the Senate’s overreaction could have
been avoided if anyone had the chance to read the bill,” said
the Sunlight Foundation’s Rosenberg. The group had advocated
narrower exemptions to existing disclosure laws.  “It’s rather a curious way to legislate,” Bonosaro said,
“but we’ll take it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  