-- U.S. Urges Japan to Refrain From Competitive Yen Devalue
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-04-13T02:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/u-s-to-press-japan-to-refrain-from-competitive-devaluation.html
The U.S. Treasury Department said
it will press  Japan  to refrain from competitive devaluation
while stopping short of accusing it of manipulating the yen in a
report on exchange rates.  The Treasury will pressure Japan to adhere to international
commitments “to remain oriented towards meeting respective
domestic objectives using domestic instruments and to refrain
from competitive devaluation and targeting its exchange rate for
competitive purposes,” the department said in its semi-annual
currency report to Congress released in  Washington  yesterday.
The report also declined to name  China  a currency manipulator.  “This is a shot across the BOJ’s bow,” Kit Juckes, a
global strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London , said in an
e-mail. “Everyone still supports Japan’s fight against
deflation, but the U.S. would much rather the yen did not weaken
significantly further.”  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  surprised markets on April 4 by doubling
monthly bond purchases to almost match the  Federal Reserve ’s
monetary easing, and by setting a two-year horizon for achieving
its goal of 2 percent inflation. BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda
said yesterday there’s no time limit to the stimulus.  The Bank of Japan and Japanese  Finance Ministry  didn’t
answer phone calls today by  Bloomberg News .  The yen has depreciated against all 16 of its most-traded
peers since April 4, declining 2.2 percent to the  U.S. dollar ,
3.5 percent to Europe’s 17-nation common currency and 2.8
percent to Australia’s dollar.  ‘Too Rapid’  “Yen moves have been too rapid for the U.S. to applaud
Japan’s battle to end deflation,” said  Yasuhide Yajima , chief
economist at NLI Research Institute Ltd. in  Tokyo , an affiliate
of Nippon Life Insurance Co., Japan’s biggest life insurer.
“Japan will have to show fiscal plans and means to strengthen
growth to make it clear it’s not depending only on weakening the
yen to revive the economy.”  The yen traded at 98.37 per dollar at 5 p.m. in  New York 
last night, from 99.68 a day earlier. It lost 0.8 percent this
week in its second five-day drop.  Juckes said until recently, the U.S. had been supportive of
Japan’s policies. “How could they not be after years of calling
for them to combat deflation?” Juckes said. “Now, with the yen
falling so far, so fast, the Treasury has changed its tune.”  TPP Deal  Japan this month reached a deal with the U.S. on bilateral
trade issues that clears the way for the world’s third-largest
economy to join talks for the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade
agreement as soon as July. The TPP would lower tariffs in
countries that account for 40 percent of global trade.  The U.S. is reiterating statements by the Group of Seven
and Group of 20 that macroeconomic policies “should be directed
at the domestic economy and not at the exchange rate,” said
 Edwin Truman , a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in Washington.  The U.S. will be “watching to make sure that the focus of
Abenomics is on stimulating the domestic Japanese economy and
not its external sector,” Truman said, referring to the
policies of Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.  In the report, the Treasury declined to name China a
manipulator while saying that the  yuan  “remains significantly
undervalued.”  ‘Appreciation Warranted’  “Intervention appears to have resumed, and further
appreciation of the RMB against the dollar is warranted,” the
Treasury said, using another term for the Chinese currency.  The Treasury said it will press China for policy changes
and greater  exchange-rate  flexibility.  The Obama administration’s “refusal to label China a
currency manipulator once again demonstrates President Obama’s
deep-seated indifference to a major, ongoing threat to American
manufacturing’s competitiveness, and to the U.S. economy’s
return to genuine health,” Alan Tonelson, research fellow at
the U.S. Business and Industry Council, which represents about
2,000 domestic manufacturers, said in a statement.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew traveled to China last
month and said he pressed the country’s new leadership on the
exchange rate.  A market-determined yuan is in China’s interest, and “they
recognize the need to do it for internal reasons as well,” Lew
said during his two-day visit.  Many U.S. corporations favor less confrontation as they
seek access to China’s market. U.S. companies such as Apple Inc.
and  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  make a substantial share of their sales in
China, according to a Bloomberg Government analysis.  February Signal  Global finance ministers, who will meet next week during
the  International Monetary Fund  and World Bank spring meetings
in Washington, signaled in February that Japan can stimulate its
stagnant economy as long as policy makers cease publicly
advocating a sliding yen.  The G-20 officials, meeting in Moscow, pledged not “to
target our exchange rates for competitive purposes.” Japan
wasn’t singled out for allowing the yen to drop and won backing
for its push to beat deflation.  On  South Korea , the Treasury report said it’s
“problematic” that the government doesn’t publish intervention
data on the Korean won. “Many market participants believe that
the Korean authorities intervened in both the spot and forward
currency markets to limit the pace of won appreciation,
particularly in the latter part of 2012 and early 2013,”
according to the report.  The Treasury released the twice-yearly report, due April 15,
early for the first time since 2000. The last report, due on Oct.
15, was released on Nov. 27. The report due on April 15, 2012
came out May 25, 2012. Under former Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , approaching international gatherings, such as the IMF-
World Bank meetings, were cited as a reason for delaying the
currency report.  ‘Fundamental, Thoroughgoing’  The Treasury report yesterday said Japan needs to “take
fundamental and thoroughgoing steps to increase the dynamism of
the domestic economy, by easing regulations that unduly deter
competition in its domestic economy.” Economic stimulus
measures “will be supportive in the short term but cannot be a
substitute for structural reform that raises productivity and
trend growth.”  The Treasury’s statements about the yen are “about having
some balance between Japan and China, said Domenico Lombardi, a
senior fellow on global economics at the  Brookings Institution 
in Washington. “The U.S. doesn’t want that its benign neglect
about Japan is interpreted as a green light or relaxation for
China to pursue exchange-rate devaluation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  