-- UBS Sued by Fired Singapore Traders’ Former Manager
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n   a n d   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-04-12T05:55:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/ubs-sued-by-fired-singapore-traders-former-manager.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , fighting lawsuits from two
 Singapore  traders it fired for alleged serious misconduct, was
sued by their former boss Balasubramanian Venkatesan.  The claims in Venkatesan’s lawsuit, filed earlier this
month, couldn’t be determined as the papers were sealed by the
Singapore High Court. Venkatesan, who had been the bank’s co-
head of fixed income, currencies and commodities for emerging
markets in  Asia , declined to comment on the lawsuit when
contacted today. Julie Yeo, a Singapore-based spokeswoman for
UBS, also declined to comment.  UBS, fined about $1.5 billion in December by U.S., U.K. and
Swiss regulators for trying to rig global interest rates, said
last month that it’s continuing the probe that led to the firing
of Mukesh Kumar Chhaganlal and Prashant Mirpuri. The two traders
sued the bank, claiming it fired them to cover up its role in
manipulating derivatives used to speculate on the movement of
currencies.  Chhaganlal, the bank’s former co-head of macro-trading for
 emerging markets  in Asia, said in his lawsuit he had raised
concerns with Venkatesan, his supervisor, last year about
unrealistic U.S. dollar-Indonesia rupiah rates being set in
Singapore. Chhaganlal said he was told “there was no way to
control the market or how people set the rates on the market.”  Venkatesan and Yeo declined to comment on when he had left
the bank, and under what circumstances.  Both Chhaganlal’s and Mirpuri’s lawsuits have since been
sealed. The Zurich-based bank has said it will defend itself
against the lawsuits of the two traders and that it is
cooperating fully with the authorities.  Regulators worldwide are probing banks over allegations
traders colluded to manipulate benchmark rates so they could
profit from bets on derivatives. The Singapore central bank in
September asked banks to expand their review of benchmark
 interest rates  to include non-deliverable forwards, which are
used to speculate on the movement of currencies subject to
foreign exchange restrictions.  The case is Balasubramanian Venkatesan v UBS AG. S260/2013.
Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ;
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  