-- Lucky, Juicy Brands Said to Draw Interest From VF, Buyout Firms
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   J o d i   X u
-- 2013-04-12T19:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/lucky-juicy-brands-said-to-draw-interest-from-vf-buyout-firms.html
Fifth & Pacific Cos. (FNP) ’s Lucky Brand
and  Juicy Couture  labels are attracting interest from private-
equity firms and strategic buyers including  VF Corp. (VFC) , said
people with knowledge of the matter.  The brands could be sold together or separately, and their
combined value is at least $700 million, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the process is private.
Apparel-maker VF Corp., South Korean retailer E-Land Group and
buyout firms Leonard Green & Partners LP and Advent
International Corp. are among those that have signed
confidentiality agreements for access to Fifth & Pacific’s
financial data, the people said.  Authentic Brands Group LLC also may bid for Juicy Couture,
said another person familiar with the situation. New York-based
Fifth & Pacific has told bidders to submit first-round offers by
the end of April, three of the people said, with the goal of a
 sale  in July.  Representatives at Fifth & Pacific, Authentic and Advent
declined to comment. Officials at VF Corp. and  Leonard Green 
didn’t return calls seeking comment. Representatives for Seoul-
based E-Land didn’t immediately respond to messages sent outside
normal business hours. Fifth & Pacific hired boutique investment
banks Perella Weinberg Partners LP and Centerview Partners LLC
to handle the sale, said the people familiar with the situation.  Lucky Brand, founded in  Los Angeles  in 1990, is likely to
fetch a higher price than Juicy Couture of at least $400
million, said one of the people. Its profitability -- as
measured by gross margin -- expanded as its sales jumped 10
percent to $461.7 million last year. It operated 177 stores of
its own as of February.  Lucky’s Comeback  The revitalization of that denim-based business has been
spearheaded in recent years by David DeMattei, hired away from
Williams-Sonoma Inc. He built fashions and accessories around
the denim line and added skinny stretch jeans to appeal to
women.  Juicy Couture, known for its velour sweatsuits and
whimsical feminine designs, will fetch at least $300 million,
said one of the people familiar with the situation. The label
posted a 6 percent drop in revenue to $498.6 million last year,
as markdowns needed to clear inventory eroded its profitability.  Juicy Couture was hurt by focusing mainly on the high-end
fashion content of the brand, which should have represented just
20 percent of the merchandise, Fifth & Pacific Chief Executive
Officer Bill McComb said Feb. 21 on a conference call with
analysts. Juicy Couture operated 78 full-priced stores of its
own in  North America  and  Europe  at the end of 2012.  Juicy Couture’s 2013 adjusted earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization are projected to tumble to
$5 million at most this year, according to a company statement
in January, from $25 million in 2012.  Lucky Brand ’s adjusted
Ebitda will be about $50 million to $55 million. Apparel labels
such as Lucky Brand and Juicy Couture typically fetch about
eight times earnings, said one of the people with knowledge of
the matter. Potential buyers would also consider revenue growth,
brand cachet and forward sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Xu in New York at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  