-- Munich Mayor Says Bavaria Wrongly Joined $3.3 Billion GBW Buyout
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-04-12T16:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/munich-mayor-says-bavaria-wrongly-joined-3-3-billion-gbw-buyout.html
Munich Mayor Christian Ude accused
the Bavarian government of unlawfully helping to fund the 2.5
billion-euro ($3.3 billion) purchase of 32,000 apartments and
asked European Union regulators to halt the sale.  Ude told EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  in a
letter mailed today that Bavaria contributed 50 million euros to
a group offer led by  Patrizia Immobilien AG (P1Z)  to buy Bayerische
Landesbank’s GBW residential property unit, according to Ulrich
Meyer, the mayor’s spokesman. That violates EU state-aid rules,
Ude said in the letter, Meyer added.  No one at the Bavarian Finance Ministry was immediately
available for comment. A spokesman at Patrizia declined to
comment.  Ude’s letter may complicate what would be  Germany ’s biggest
property deal in five years. Patrizia led a group of investors
who agreed to buy the Bavarian apartments from GBW for 882
million euros excluding debt, according to statements from
Patrizia and BayernLB on April 8.  Patrizia beat at least four other bidders, including a
group of municipalities that included Munich, Bavaria’s capital,
and the city of Nuremberg, four people with knowledge of the
matter said. Ude is a  Social Democrat , while the Bavarian state
government is ruled by a coalition of the  Christian Social Union 
and the Free Democratic Party.  The Bavarian government may join the buyers through a state
foundation, BayernLB spokesman Matthias Luecke said in an e-
mail. That’s a matter between Patrizia and the foundation, and
BayernLB’s board didn’t know of their arrangement when it chose
the winning bid, he said.  The EU had required the bank to sell its stake in GBW by
the end of this year after it received state aid in 2008. The
European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, checks whether
state aid distorts competition in the 27-nation bloc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at +49-30-70010-6217 or
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at +49-30-70010-6223 or
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  