-- TVA Without U.S. Leaves Little More Than Junk: Corporate Finance
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2013-04-12T04:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/tva-without-u-s-leaves-little-more-than-junk-corporate-finance.html
President  Barack Obama ’s suggestion
that the U.S. sell the  Tennessee Valley Authority  reveals a
utility with a higher debt burden than any domestic peer except
Calpine Corp. and the former TXU Corp.  While the largest government-owned power producer issues
bonds with an Aaa  credit rating  from Moody’s Investors Service,
debt accounts for 57 percent of Knoxville, Tennessee-based TVA’s
 assets . That’s more than any utility with at least $1 billion of
bonds except Calpine, which left  bankruptcy protection  in 2008,
and Energy Future Holdings Corp., the former TXU, which Moody’s
says faces a “material restructuring” within 12 months.  Obama is considering cleaving the  New Deal -era legacy of
President  Franklin Roosevelt  from government financial backing
with TVA, which has $23 billion of bonds outstanding, poised to
exceed a $30 billion debt cap to pay for infrastructure
improvements and meet new environmental rules. While a potential
deal would probably include the government injecting capital
into TVA, the utility probably wouldn’t retain its top credit
rating, according to Pierpont Securities LLC.  “There’s a lot of debt there,” Mark Pibl, the head of
credit strategy at Pierpont in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “As a standalone with the same credit profile, it’d
be very levered,” which would require it to raise equity and
cut debt to operate as a public company.  Bonds Drop  TVA’s $1 billion of 3.5 percent bonds due December 2042
dropped to 95.7 cents on the dollar yesterday after trading at
102.6 cents on April 9, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
A yield of 3.74 percent, or 74.3 basis points more than
Treasuries, compares with a 4 percent average for similar-
maturity debt issued by U.S. utilities, none of which have a
Moody’s rating higher than Aa3.  The company, in common with other utilities across the
nation, is contending with rising costs to upgrade  power lines ,
replace old generators and meet new air-quality standards. The
agency plans to invest more than $25 billion in the next 10
years for environmental and infrastructure improvements, leading
the Obama administration to consider to reducing or eliminating
the federal government’s ownership as a way to help shrink the
budget  deficit .  ‘Fairly Competitive  “TVA still has a lot of investment in front of them,”
said Noel Hebert, the chief investment officer at Concannon
Wealth Management, which oversees about $250 million of assets
in Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania . “Being spun out would likely mean a
loss of access not only to lower borrowing costs, but also”
political support, he said.  The government will work with TVA over the next few months
to develop a plan for the review, which will address the
company’s financing issues, according to an administration
official who asked not to be identified, citing lack of
authorization to speak publicly.  “TVA can’t issue stock, so our primary vehicle for raising
capital for investments in the power system are bonds,” Duncan
Mansfield, a spokesman for TVA, said in telephone interview.
“We are fairly competitive if you take that into account,
compared with investor-owned utilities.”  Strategic Review  The company will work with the Office of Management and
Budget to provide information for the administration’s strategic
review, TVA said in an April 10 statement. The 80-year-old
organization, created during the Great Depression to bring
electricity to rural communities, said the suggestion of a
potential sale was unexpected.  “It’s a concept that’s in play,”  Robert Smith , the chief
investment officer at Austin, Texas-based Sage Advisory Services
Ltd., which holds TVA debt, said in a telephone interview.
“It’ll put an uncertainty into this name, and until the book is
either closed or they get on with it, you’re going to see a bit
more volatility in these spreads.”  TVA has a higher ratio of debt to its $3.4 billion of
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
than 95 percent of U.S. peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Its total debt to capital ratio of 84 percent leaves
TVA without an investment-grade credit profile on a standalone
basis, according to FTN Financial.  ‘From Somewhere’  “It’s been essentially free-cash-flow neutral for years
with debt levels rising incrementally; the problem is now
they’re expecting to be free-cash-flow negative going forward as
they have to invest to upgrade their plants,” said Austen Gray,
an analyst at FTN Financial in New York. “They’re going to have
to raise that capital from somewhere.”  To retain a credit rating above Ba1 from Moody’s and BB+
from Standard & Poor’s in the event of a sale, TVA may require
$8 billion of additional capital, Gray wrote in a report
yesterday that said it’s unlikely TVA will be privatized.  S&P now ranks TVA AA+, equivalent to its grade for  U.S.
government debt .  The administration will have to contend with political
opponents such as Senator  Lamar Alexander , a Tennessee
Republican, who said a government divestiture of TVA was “one
more bad idea in a budget full of bad ideas.” Higher-cost debt
may also lead to increased prices for TVA’s 9 million customers
across seven states that pay below the national average.  Flood Control  A “multiple notch downgrade is likely” if a for-profit
company were to own TVA, Toby Shea, an analyst at Moody’s in New
York, wrote yesterday in a report. Along with government
backing, TVA’s Aaa rating reflects its requirement to set rates
to cover operating expenses and debt-service obligations.  The company, which gets no taxpayer money and makes no
profits, also provides flood control, navigation and land
management for the Tennessee River system, according to TVA’s
website.  “It’s unclear what, if any, support the government might
give to bondholders should a deal materialize,” said  Joel Levington , managing director of corporate credit research at
Brookfield Investment Management Inc. “But just based on the
current figures and zero government support, the credit would be
much weaker compared with its current Aaa credit rating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  