-- Venable, Troutman Sanders, Sidley: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-04-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/venable-troutman-sanders-sidley-business-of-law.html
Michael J. Rivera, formerly chief
investigative counsel for the Special Inspector General for the
Troubled Asset Relief Program has joined Venable LLP’s
Securities and Exchange Commission and white-collar defense
group as a partner in the Washington office.  Rivera, who worked at the oversight body created as part of
the TARP bailouts from August 2010 until joining Venable,
managed more than 150 investigations conducted by SIGTARP’s
investigations division. He worked with prosecutors and senior
officials at federal and state bank and securities regulatory
agencies and law enforcement agencies, the firm said in a
statement.  Rivera was responsible for criminal and civil
investigations and prosecutions involving TARP fraud, accounting
fraud, bank fraud, loan fraud, securities fraud, mortgage
servicer misconduct, fraudulent advance-fee schemes, money
laundering, obstruction of justice, perjury and tax fraud, the
firm said. His responsibilities also included overseeing the
TARP financial relief programs, which had $2.5 trillion in
government and private funds.  Rivera, “led what was arguably one of the country’s most
significant government investigative and prosecutorial
initiatives in history in his role as Chief Investigative
Counsel at SIGTARP,” Geoffrey Garinther, who chairs Venable’s
litigation practice group, said in a statement. “He brings a
rare combination of skills to our group, and a track record that
will enhance our most important financial and corporate
litigation matters.”  Rivera also served as SIGTARP’s representative to President
 Barack Obama ’s Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force and its
bank, mortgage and securities working groups, and he led
SIGTARP’s establishment of working groups with the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, the firm said.  Prior to joining SIGTARP, Rivera was a partner at Fried,
Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP, where he practiced for 17
years. Before that he was a staff attorney in the SEC’s Division
of Enforcement.  “Venable’s SEC and white collar practice has a strong
reputation for performing top-notch work,” Rivera said in a
statement. “The firm’s stellar bench of former SEC enforcement
staffers, bank regulators and assistant U.S. attorneys has
substantial experience defending major financial fraud
investigations,”  Venable has more than 500 lawyers at eight U.S. offices.  Bingham Enhances Antitrust Strength with Government Hires  Bingham McCutchen LLP bolstered its antitrust and white-
collar practices with two federal government lawyer hires. The
Federal Trade Commission senior competition adviser, Darren
Tucker, and a former Justice Department prosecutor, Michael
Whitlock, join the firm as litigation partners in the Washington
office.  At the FTC, Tucker drafted the agency’s liability decision
in a case that tested the power of doctors to exclude non-
licensed providers offering competitive services, the firm said.  Whitlock joins Bingham from the National Criminal
Enforcement Section of the Justice Department. He investigated
auto-parts companies for price fixing, bid rigging and market
allocation as well as prosecuted companies and people accused of
collusion in the coastal-shipping and air-cargo industries, the
firm said.  Both men will work in the antitrust, competition and trade
regulation group, with Whitlock also joining Bingham’s white
collar investigations and enforcement group.  “Darren’s background in FTC merger and conduct
investigations, particularly in the health-care and technology
sectors, and Michael’s prosecutorial experience in some of the
largest and most significant criminal antitrust investigations
in the DOJ’s history ensure that we will continue to deliver the
agency knowledge and experience our clients expect and
deserve,” Leiv Blad, co-chairman of Bingham’s antitrust group,
said in a statement.  Bingham has approximately 1,000 lawyers in 14 offices in
the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Troutman Sanders Hires Stoel Rives’ Renewable Energy Chairman  Energy lawyer Stephen C. Hall joined Troutman Sanders LLP
as a partner in the Portland, Oregon, office. He was previously
a partner at Stoel Rives LLP, where his practice focused on
representing energy industry companies on regulatory and
commercial issues. He’s the former chairman of Stoel Rives’
renewable energy initiative.  “His work representing independent power producers,
renewable energy developers, investment banks, power marketers,
and major utilities will complement and enhance both our energy
regulatory and project development and finance practices,”
Clifford S. Sikora, a partner and section chief of Troutman
Sanders’ energy practice, said in a statement.  Troutman Sanders has more than 600 lawyers and 15 offices
in the U.S. and Asia.  Jones Day Adds Food and Drug Partner Heisey in Washington  Jones Day announced that Colleen Heisey has joined the
Washington office as a partner in the health-care practice.
Formerly a partner at Hunton & Williams LLP, Heisey focuses on
food and drug law with a particular emphasis on advertising,
promotion and compliance counseling.  “Health-care and life sciences companies are under
increasing scrutiny from the FDA, USDA and other federal and
state regulatory agencies,” James Dutro, the San Francisco
based co-leader of Jones Day’s health care practice, said in a
statement. “Colleen’s deep understanding of the regulations and
the regulators adds significantly to the formidable capabilities
we have assembled to counsel clients worldwide on the evolving
regulatory environment.”  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers in 36 offices
worldwide.  Withers Bergman Hires International Corporate Tax Partner  Withers Bergman LLP added partner Patrick M. Cox to its
international corporate tax group in New York. Cox joins from
Brown Rudnick LLP, where he was chairman of the tax group.  Cox works with domestic and international clients in
developing tax strategies for cross-border and domestic business
transactions. He represents businesses, investors and financial
intermediaries on federal income tax issues related to capital
market transactions as well as mergers and acquisitions, the
firm said. He also advises corporations and consolidated groups
on the tax consequences of debt offerings, exchanges and
reorganizations.  Withers Bergman has more than 100 partners and more than
270 other lawyers, with 10 offices in the U.S., Europe, Asia and
the British Virgin Islands.  News  Rutgers General Counsel Resigns After Coaching Scandal  Rutgers University’s general counsel, John Wolf, resigned
after criticism of his role in the investigation of Mike Rice,
who was fired as men’s basketball coach last week for physically
and verbally abusing players.  Wolf and Rutgers President Robert Barchi “agreed that it
is in the best interests of the university that Mr. Wolf resign
from the university effective immediately,” the New Brunswick,
New Jersey-based school said on its website.  Rice was suspended for three games and fined $50,000 in
December following an investigation of his actions by Wolf,
Rutgers Athletic Director Tim Pernetti and an outside law firm.  The coach was fired on April 3, a day after video was aired
on ESPN’s “Outside the Lines” showing Rice shoving players and
throwing basketballs at them while uttering gay slurs and
vulgarities during practices from 2010 to 2012.  Barchi said April 5 at a news conference to announce
Pernetti’s resignation that Wolf had “resigned his leadership
position.”  New Jersey State Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, a Democrat
from East Orange, yesterday questioned the decision to reassign
Wolf to another post at the school rather than fire him.  “The decision-making process that has gone on at Rutgers
is simply baffling,” Oliver said in an e-mailed statement. “If
Mr. Wolf’s questionable judgment played a role in the
suspension, rather than the firing, of Mike Rice, he needed to
be held accountable, not reassigned to another sizeable
taxpayer-funded position.”  Wolf will work with the school’s next general counsel to
assure a smooth transition as Rutgers works toward a July 1,
2013, merger with the University of Medicine and Dentistry of
New Jersey, according to the school statement.  “While I regret the circumstances surrounding my departure
from Rutgers, I always will have very fond memories of the
challenges and achievements that I have been a part of and the
many colleagues and friends, both inside and outside the
university, with whom I have worked at Rutgers since 1984,”
Wolf said in a statement. “I wish Rutgers well.”  Senate Republicans Erect Few Roadblocks to Srinivasan Nomination  A recent White House push to build Republican support for
judicial nominees showed signs of headway, as senators signaled
little opposition to a candidate for a seat on a powerful
appellate court in Washington.  The nomination of Sri Srinivasan, a deputy solicitor
general at the U.S. Justice Department, to the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit went before the
Senate Judiciary Committee April 10. The appellate panel is
considered the nation’s second-most-influential court because
its jurisdiction over federal rulemaking means it often hears
major environmental, labor and national-security cases.  The White House has tried to bolster Srinivasan’s
nomination by releasing a letter of support from former
officials, including six Republicans. They include Kenneth Starr, who was solicitor general under President George H.W.
Bush and investigated President Bill Clinton in the 1990s, and
Ted Olson, solicitor general under President George W. Bush.  “I intend to support you based on what we’re talking about
here,” Senator Orrin Hatch, a Utah Republican, said at the
April 10 hearing. “You’re a very impressive person as far as
I’m concerned. I don’t believe judges should be filibustered.”  Last month, President Barack Obama withdrew his nomination
of former New York state solicitor general Caitlin Halligan for
a seat on the D.C. appellate bench after Republicans used a
procedural maneuver known as a filibuster to block her
nomination. Halligan, whom Obama nominated three times -- in
2011, 2012 and 2013 -- and who asked to have her name withdrawn,
was to fill one of four vacancies among 11 seats on the court.  No nominee to the panel has been confirmed since 2006.
Judges on its bench regularly move up to the U.S. Supreme Court,
where four of the nine current justices, including Chief Justice
John Roberts, previously served on the lower court. Democrats
blame politics for the impasse.  Confirmation of appellate and district-court nominees took
an average of 227 days in Obama’s first term, compared with 176
days in George W. Bush’s first four years and 98 days during
Clinton’s first term, according to an analysis by Russell
Wheeler, a fellow at the Brookings Institution, a nonprofit
research organization in Washington.  The number of appeals-court vacancies rose to 17 during
Obama’s first term from 14 when he took office in January 2009,
according to Wheeler’s analysis. During Bush’s initial four
years, appellate vacancies declined to 18 on his second
inauguration from 27 when he entered the White House.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Larry Barden Named Vice Chair of Sidley’s Management Committee  Sidley Austin LLP elected Chicago corporate partner Larry Barden vice chairman of the firm’s management committee. He will
succeed Charles W. Douglas in April 2014.  “Chuck has spent the last 15 years guiding the firm
through the changing legal landscape and helping to establish it
as a global leader,” Carter G. Phillips, co-chairman of
Sidley’s executive committee, said in a statement.  “I look
forward to collaborating with Larry in leading the firm.”  Barden is one of the global coordinators of the firm’s
securities practice. He was elected to the executive committee
in 1999 and to its management committee in 2011. His principal
areas of practice, which he will continue to pursue, are mergers
and acquisitions, securities/corporate finance, strategic
counseling/corporate governance and private equity/venture
capital, the firm said.  Sidley has approximately 1,700 lawyers in 18 offices
worldwide.  Video  Survey Says Law Firms Must Change, But Don’t Know How  A survey of the readers of the Adam Smith, Esq. law-firm
management blog found widespread agreement that law firms have
to change their fundamental business models, consultant Bruce
MacEwen told Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia.  Still, lawyers have real doubts that firms will be willing
to invest the money necessary to compete with legal process
outsourcers or even know how to compete in a changing legal
profession, MacEwen said.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  