-- Visa, MasterCard Judge Asked to Approve Settlement, Fees
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-04-12T15:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/visa-mastercard-judge-asked-to-approve-settlement-fees.html
Lawyers for plaintiffs in a  Visa
Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  antitrust case over interchange fees
asked for final approval of a settlement along with $720 million
in legal fees and $27 million in expenses.  The attorneys, representing a class of more than 7 million
merchants, filed papers late yesterday in  Brooklyn ,  New York ,
seeking a final blessing for the accord from U.S. District Judge
John Gleeson.  The settlement, estimated to be the largest ever in an
antitrust case, would provide for about $7.25 billion in cash
payouts, according to a memorandum filed by Robbins Geller
Rudman & Dowd LLP, one of the lead law firms in the case.  “With the largest-ever cash relief in an antitrust class
action settlement plus unprecedented rules changes that would
enable merchants to recover their costs of credit card
acceptance” the settlement “is far more than ‘fair, adequate,
and reasonable,’” the lawyers wrote.  In a separate filing, the lawyer said their request for
attorneys’ fees is reasonable given the complexity of the issues
and the length of time of the eight-year-long case.  “The settlement will affect as great a segment of the
United States economy as any previous antitrust class action,”
lawyers for the plaintiffs said in the filing, noting that about
60 law firms worked on the case. “Such an extraordinary
settlement could result only from a similarly extraordinary
effort by class counsel and their co-counsel.”  Retailers Opposed  Merchant trade groups and some large retailers including
 Target Corp. (TGT) ,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  spoke out
against the accord, claiming it isn’t large enough and gives
card companies too much leeway to raise fees in the future. The
lawsuit alleged the card companies and some of the country’s
largest banks conspired to fix prices of fees paid by merchants
when customers pay with plastic.  A hearing on final approval has been scheduled for
September.  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and
Merchant Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York federal court
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  