-- VW Sales Growth Slows in March on Europe Market Declines
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-04-12T13:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/volkswagen-growth-slows-in-march-as-europe-headwinds-intensify.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s biggest
automaker, said global sales growth slowed in March and that
headwinds in its home region are intensifying.  VW eked out a 0.2 percent rise in deliveries last month to
864,400 vehicles as demand in  China  and  North America  more than
offset shrinking sales across Europe, the Wolfsburg, Germany-
based carmaker said today. In the first two months of the year,
VW vehicle deliveries rose 8.3 percent to 1.4 million.  “The data for March clearly show that the markets are
becoming even more difficult,” Christian Klingler, VW’s sales
chief, said in the statement.  Auto executives are forecasting a sixth straight annual
decline for the industry in Europe this year as the region’s
waning economy stifles demand for new cars. VW, which forecasts
2013 earnings matching last year’s level, reiterated last month
that first-quarter profit will likely drop due to weak demand in
Europe and costs to introduce new vehicles.  “I expect sales growth rates to remain muted beyond the
first quarter, because the European market is just very weak,”
Hans-Peter Wodniok, an analyst at Fairesearch GmbH in Kronberg,
 Germany , said in a phone interview. Pricing and underlying
profit will be in focus when VW releases first-quarter earnings
later this month, he said.  The shares  declined  as much as 6.65 euros, or 4.4 percent,
to 146.20 euros and were down 4 percent as of 3:42 p.m. in
Frankfurt trading. The stock has declined 15 percent this year,
valuing the company at 66.4 billion euros ($86.8 billion).  Deliveries Down  VW’s first-quarter deliveries in Europe dropped 5.9 percent
as sales in Germany, the region’s largest market, plummeted 7.2
percent. Deliveries in North America were up 15 percent and rose
21 percent in China, Volkswagen’s biggest single market.
Volkswagen’s presence in  emerging markets  like China, Brazil and
 Russia  has enabled it to steer through the European industry
gloom better than many mass-market rivals.  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ’s credit rating was cut to four levels
below investment grade yesterday by Moody’s Investors Service,
which said Europe’s car-market contraction puts the auto
manufacturer’s plans to restore  cash flow  at risk.  Peugeot, Europe’s second-largest carmaker, is eliminating
jobs and closing a factory to end losses as the region’s auto
market, already close to a two-decade low in 2012, shows no
signs of a rebound.  Europe’s car-sales contraction accelerated in recent weeks
as a steepening decline in Germany, the region’s biggest market,
added to the drop. Registrations fell 10 percent to 829,359
vehicles in February, the Brussels-based European Automobile
Manufacturers’ Association, or ACEA, said last month. Two-month
sales fell 9.3 percent to 1.75 million cars. Figures for March
will be released next week.  Fiat SpA (F)  plans to review forecasts for 2013 at the end of
this month. A decline in European sales “would be worse than
the forecasts we indicated in January as our base for 2013
targets,” Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said on
April 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  