-- Vornado More Likely to Sell Than Buy After Prices Rise
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-04-12T21:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/vornado-likely-to-sell-more-than-buy-with-bubble-chairman-says.html
Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) , owner of more
than 100 million square feet (9.3 million square meters) of U.S.
properties, will probably sell more real estate than it acquires
following a surge in values, Chairman Steven Roth said today.  “I can see the bubble on the horizon; the fat lady
entering the building,” Roth wrote in his annual letter to
investors, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. “My belly tells me that prices are now higher than
future prospects and therefore, we will buy carefully and likely
sell more than we buy.”  U.S. commercial properties have recovered value lost during
the recession and are now back to 2007 highs on average, real
estate research firm Green Street Advisors Inc. said in a report
earlier this month. Economic growth, low interest rates and
minimal construction have fueled appreciation, according to the
Newport Beach, California-based firm.  “It also feels to me like interest rates will stay lower
for longer than the pundits expect and that we are near the
tipping point where market participants will start to believe
and act as if it’s their God-given right to zero-bound interest
rates,” Roth said in today’s letter.  Vornado, based in New York, has sold $2.75 billion of
assets since the chairman’s letter last April, outgoing Chief
Executive Officer Michael Fascitelli said on Feb. 27. The
company had a net gain of $718 million from 26 transactions, he
said. Sales included the Kings Plaza shopping center in New
York’s Brooklyn borough, for $751 million; the Green Acres Mall
in Valley Stream, New York, for $500 million; and Vornado’s
stake in LNR Property LLC, the biggest manager of troubled U.S.
commercial mortgages, for proceeds of $241 million.  J.C. Penney  Fascitelli, whose last day as CEO is April 15, announced
his resignation on Feb. 27, a day after the company reported a
$224.9 million loss on its stake in  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  Vornado,
which bought its stake in the Plano, Texas-based department-
store chain in 2010, sold 10 million shares in the company last
month, leaving it with a 6.1 percent stake.  “This has obviously been a difficult and very
disappointing investment,” Roth said in today’s letter.  Roth, 71, who will take over as Vornado’s CEO, joined
Vornado in 1980 and has been chairman since 1989. He was CEO
from May 1989 through May 2009.  The letter was filed after the close of regular U.S.
trading. Vornado rose 0.2 percent to $87.41 today in New York.
The shares have gained 7.9 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  