-- Wallabies Pick Folau, Omit Cooper for Lions Preparation Camp
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-04-12T07:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/wallabies-pick-30-players-to-attend-planning-camp-for-lions.html
Australia rugby union selectors
included code-switcher  Israel  Folau among seven rookie players
for a 30-man planning camp ahead of the Test series against the
British and Irish Lions in June and July.  Full-back Folau was chosen after playing seven Super Rugby
games since joining the New South Wales Waratahs in December
following stints in rugby league and Australian Rules football.
The Australian Conference-leading ACT Brumbies provided the
other six newcomers in Jesse Mogg, Christian Leali’ifano, Nic
White, Scott Sio, Ben Mowen and Fotu Auelua.  “We’ve seen Israel play top-level sport and he’s very
comfortable in the arena,” Wallabies coach Robbie Deans told
reporters in Sydney. “He enjoys the big stage so his transition
to union has been remarkably smooth. He’s on our radar.”  Queensland Reds fly-half Quade Cooper,  Australia ’s first-
choice playmaker at the 2011 Rugby World Cup, was among those
omitted as he tries to regain a spot in the national team after
last year describing the Wallabies environment as “toxic” and
criticizing their style of play under Deans.  The 30 players will assemble in Sydney on April 14 and 15
“to conclude off-field requirements and team planning” for the
best-of-three contest against the Lions, the Australian Rugby
Union said. The get together will allow players to complete the
team’s commercial obligations for the series and undertake
“specific rugby-related planning,” the ARU said.  ‘Strong Form’  Although not an official Wallabies squad, a number of
players were chosen on the basis of “strong form” for their
Super Rugby teams this year, the ARU said in announcing the
roster on its website. Exclusion “did not” rule players out of
the Lions Tests, Deans said.  A 25-man squad for the series starting June 22 in Brisbane
will be named May 19 and will enter training camp from June 3. A
further six players will be added when the final 31-man roster
to face the Lions is announced June 11.  The Lions, a combined team from the U.K. and Ireland that
tours every four years, last visited Australia in 2001, when the
Wallabies secured a 2-1 victory. The Lions haven’t won a Test
series since beating South Africa in 1997.  LIST OF PLAYERS TO ATTEND PLANNING CAMP: Jesse Mogg
(Brumbies), Israel Folau (Waratahs), Digby Ioane (Queensland
Reds), Joe Tomane (Brumbies), Adam Ashley-Cooper (Waratahs), Ben
Tapuai (Queensland Reds), Pat McCabe (Brumbies), Christian
Leali’ifano (Brumbies), Berrick Barnes (Waratahs), James
O’Connor (Melbourne Rebels), Nic White (Brumbies), Will Genia
(Queensland Reds), Wycliff Palu (Waratahs), Fotu Auelua
(Brumbies), Michael Hooper (Waratahs), Liam Gill (Queensland
Reds), Dave Dennis (Waratahs), Scott Higginbotham (Melbourne
Rebels), Ben Mowen (Brumbies), Rob Simmons (Queensland Reds),
James Horwill (Queensland Reds), Kane Douglas (Waratahs),
Sitaleki Timani (Waratahs), Dan Palmer (Brumbies), James Slipper
(Queensland Reds), Ben Alexander (Brumbies), Benn Robinson
(Waratahs), Scott Sio (Brumbies), Stephen Moore (Brumbies),
Tatafu Polota Nau (Waratahs).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  