-- Wells Fargo CEO Sees Housing Shortage Helping Mortgage Results
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-04-12T17:39:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/wells-fargo-ceo-sees-housing-shortage-helping-mortgage-results.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  Chief Executive
Officer  John Stumpf  said there aren’t enough homes for sale in
some markets and that a rebound in sales, prices and
construction will bolster future earnings.  “If anything today there’s probably a shortage of housing
on the market,” Stumpf, 59, said on a conference call today.
“It’s not true in every market and in every  price range  but
when I’m out talking with Realtors and customers, the amount of
supply, especially in the lower end or starter houses, there’s
not a lot of supply out there.”  An improving housing market will boost home building and
prices and limit costs tied to faulty or soured mortgages as
more borrowers regain equity, Stumpf said. Wells Fargo is the
biggest U.S. home lender and has set its sights on originating
loans for purchases as refinancings slow.  Stumpf and Chief Financial Officer Timothy Sloan sought to
assuage the concerns of analysts including Morgan Stanley’s
 Betsy Graseck  and  Paul Miller  of FBR Capital Markets Corp. about
whether the bank can withstand a slowdown in the refinancing
market. San Francisco-based Wells Fargo got 23 percent of its
first-quarter fee income from writing mortgages for purchases
and refinancings.  “We’re seeing the housing market start to pick up, we’re
seeing home builders building homes but there’s still not a lot
of loan growth being created,” Miller said on the call. “Do
you see that changing over the next couple quarters?”  Mortgage Outlook  Without predicting it will happen, Stumpf responded that
mortgage production could get a boost if rates stay low, the
economy improves and more households are created. To stimulate
 economic growth , the  Federal Reserve  has kept its benchmark
 interest rate  near zero since December 2008, and is buying bonds
to push down long-term rates.  Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities climbed 9 percent from last
March through January, according to a S&P/Case-Shiller index.  Wells Fargo reported a record $5.17 billion  profit  for the
first quarter. Mortgage originations fell 13 percent from the
fourth quarter to $109 billion and applications -- a gauge of
future results -- fell 7.9 percent to $140 billion. Wells Fargo
ended the quarter with $74 billion of pending mortgages, which
Sloan called “very strong.”  The bank has added employees in certain markets to benefit
from a housing rebound, and the bolstered capacity has helped
the lender cut the time to close a loan from 90 days to 60 days,
Sloan said on the call. Wells Fargo  employed  274,300 people at
the end of March, a 2 percent increase from the end of 2012.  Lenders will extend $1.43 trillion in mortgages this year,
an 18 percent decline from last year, according to the  Mortgage
Bankers Association . Originations totaled $482 billion in the
first quarter, the Washington-based group estimated in a March
22 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  