-- Wholesale Prices in U.S. Fall More Than Forecast on Energy
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-04-12T13:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/wholesale-prices-in-u-s-fall-more-than-forecast-on-energy-1-.html
Wholesale prices in the U.S. fell
more than forecast in March as the cost of energy slumped by the
most in three years.  The 0.6 percent drop in the producer price  index  was the
biggest since May and followed a 0.7 percent gain in the prior
month, the Labor Department reported today in  Washington . The
 median  estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 75 economists called
for a 0.2 percent decline. A core measure of prices that
excludes the volatile food and energy categories rose 0.2
percent for a third month.  Weakness in  Europe  and slower growth in other global
markets are restraining demand for commodities including oil,
limiting the ability of U.S. companies to raise prices. A
smaller risk of inflation is giving Federal Reserve officials
room to keep buying assets at an unprecedented rate as they seek
to boost growth and lower unemployment.  “Inflation fortunately remains low and that will support
spending,” said  Gus Faucher , senior economist at PNC Financial
Services Group Inc. in Pittsburgh. “Inflation is a non-issue.”  Another report showed retail sales unexpectedly fell in
March by the most in nine months as employment slowed, showing
household spending ended the first quarter on softer footing.  Retail Sales  The 0.4 percent decrease, the  biggest  since June, followed
a 1 percent gain in February, according to the Commerce
Department in Washington. The median forecast of 85 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for no change in March. Department
stores and electronics dealers were among the weakest showings.  Stock-index futures extended declines after the retail
data. The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring
in June dropped 0.4 percent to 1,581.1 at 9:08 a.m. in  New York 
after closing at an all-time high yesterday.  Economists’ estimates for producer prices ranged from a
decrease of 1.1 percent to a 0.5 percent gain. Core wholesale
prices were projected to rise 0.2 percent, the Bloomberg survey
showed.  Compared with the same month last year, companies paid 1.1
percent more for goods, the smallest 12-month advance since
July, today’s report showed. The core index increased 1.7
percent in the year ended in March, matching the prior month’s
gain.  Energy Prices  The wholesale cost of energy, including gasoline,  diesel
fuel  and natural gas, slumped 3.4 percent in March. The decrease
was the biggest since February 2010.  Diesel prices dropped 12.8 percent last month, the most in
four years. Gasoline costs decreased 6.8 percent, the biggest
decline since November.  The cost of finished consumer foods increased by the most
in four months. Prices for fresh and dry vegetables jumped by
21.5 percent in March.  Among other finished goods that increased in March,
civilian aircraft costs posted the biggest gain since December
2008.  A rebounding  housing market  is pushing up prices of
carpeting. The costs of carpets and rugs increased 2.5 percent
in March, the most since April 2009.  Expenses for intermediate goods decreased 0.9 percent, the
most since October 2011, and those for crude goods slumped 2.5
percent.  Some companies are offering discounts to stoke consumer
demand in the wake of a January tax increase and limited job
growth.  Budget Minded  Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI) , based in  Orlando ,  Florida , is
trying to draw more budget-minded customers with lower-priced
offerings at its  Olive Garden  eateries.  “There are clearly a large number of guests at Olive
Garden that would come more often if the experience is more
affordable, and we’re going to address that in the short-term
promotionally,” Darden President and Chief Operating Officer
Drew Madsen said at an April 4 conference. “At the same time,
we’re going to work on some more distinctive dishes at the other
end. But in combination, we think it is going to lead to a check
growth that’s clearly slower, meaningfully slower than it has
been over the last four, five, six years.”  The limited pressure on prices has given the Fed room to
continue an asset-purchase program that has swollen its balance
sheet to a record $3.22 trillion. The  Federal Open Market
Committee  last month said it would press on with its $85 billion
in monthly bond purchases until the labor market improves
“substantially.” Several Fed officials favored a retreat from
the record stimulus by year’s end, according to minutes of the
March 19-20 meeting that were released this week.  The  producer price index  is the second of three monthly
inflation gauges reported by the Labor Department. The first,
import prices, fell 0.5 percent in March, more than expected, as
fuel prices retreated, the Labor Department reported yesterday.  The cost of living index, the broadest of the three
measures, will be released next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  