-- Why Is the Press Ignoring the Kermit Gosnell Story?
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-04-12T16:56:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/why-is-the-press-ignoring-the-kermit-gosnell-story-.html
A few years ago, I made the mistake
of watching an Eli Roth horror film called “ Hostel .” It is,
technically, a successful movie, in that it achieves its purpose
of making you feel both terrified and ill.  “Hostel,” which is categorized by people who do such
categorizing as “torture porn,” concerns a criminal syndicate
that provides victims to wealthy sadists for abuse and murder.
It is filled with images that I would prefer to expel from my
mind but can’t.  I’m reminded of “Hostel” because my mind is now filled with
other images I wish I could expunge. Unfortunately, these are
real-world images, contained in  testimony  about a series of
atrocities at a Philadelphia abortion clinic. The clinic, the
grandly named Women’s Medical Society, was run by Kermit
Gosnell, who is now on trial for murder. According to testimony
at the trial, the doctor trained his technicians -- unlicensed,
usually -- to cut the spinal cords of babies who were born alive
during late-term (extremely late-term) abortions.  According to William Saletan of Slate, one of the only
journalists in the mainstream media to  report  on this horrific
case as it developed, the Gosnell scandal broke open in 2010,
when detectives and federal agents, investigating illegal drug
sales, raided the clinic. They found “dirty surgical
instruments, blood on the floor, cat excrement on the stairs, a
stench of urine in the air, and operating facilities one agent
compared to a bad gas station restroom.”  Fetal Remains  They also found -- brace yourselves -- fetal remains stored
in milk jugs and cat-food containers. “Semi-conscious women
scheduled for abortions were moaning in the waiting room or the
recovery room, where they sat on dirty recliners covered in
blood-stained blankets. All the women had been sedated by
unlicensed staff -- long before Gosnell arrived at the clinic --
and staff members could not accurately state what medications or
dosages they had administered to the waiting patients.”  By any standard, this is a newsworthy trial. The question I
had, when I first heard of it this week, is: Why is it just
being discussed now? I only heard about it because Kirsten Powers, writing in  USA Today ,  scolded the news media  for
ignoring what is quite obviously a hugely important story.  “Let me state the obvious,” Powers wrote. “This should be
front page news. When  Rush Limbaugh  attacked Sandra Fluke, there
was non-stop media hysteria,” she continued. “Yet, accusations
of babies having their heads severed -- a major human rights
story if there ever was one -- doesn’t make the cut. You don’t
have to oppose abortion rights to find late-term abortion
abhorrent or to find the Gosnell trial eminently newsworthy.”  Powers is right: National news coverage of this case has
been scarce to the point of nonexistence. In addition to the
horror-movie aspects, the case touches on several national
policy concerns, including regulation of abortion clinics and
the morality of late-term abortions, just for starters.  Last year, I was one of many people in the new media who
covered the controversy surrounding the Susan G. Komen
Foundation, which had cut its funding to  Planned Parenthood .
There was  outrage  -- justifiable outrage, I think -- that Komen,
a women’s health organization, would defund Planned Parenthood
for what were quite obviously ideological reasons. I’m proud to
say that the media covered that story assiduously.  Where is that same assiduousness on the Gosnell case, a
case that shocks the conscience? This story -- which if nothing
else suggests that live births do, in fact, happen during late-
term abortions -- upsets a particular narrative about the
reality of certain types of abortion, and that reality isn’t
something some pro-choice absolutists want to discuss.  It’s too late now, though, to suppress coverage. Powers and
others have shamed the media into paying attention, and the
press is now on the case. It’s remarkable that it took this
long.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for The Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own. This is the second in a two-part series.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 