-- Why Thatcher Wasn’t Her Era’s Most Transformative Leader
-- B y   A l a s d a i r   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-04-12T16:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/why-thatcher-wasn-t-her-era-s-most-transformative-leader.html
In September 1982, U.K. Prime
Minister Margaret Thatcher traveled to Beijing to discuss the
future of Hong Kong with Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping.  It wasn’t an easy encounter. Premier Zhao Ziyang had
previously announced China’s determination to reclaim
sovereignty over Hong Kong, which had been a British colony for
140 years. Thatcher later told the press that her talks with
Deng were  friendly . In reality, Deng hadn’t concealed his anger.  Two years later, the two nations reached a rapprochement.
The U.K. promised to relinquish its claim on Hong Kong in 1997,
and China vowed to maintain a free-market economy in the
territory for 50 years after the handover.  For Thatcher, this was an important concession by the
Chinese. To the Western press, it was further evidence of the
Chinese leader’s pragmatism. Deng, the  New York  Times said, had
“put aside ideology” to close the deal.  In this respect, Deng appeared to be the complete
antithesis of Thatcher, who was frequently condemned as an
ideologue and a radical. She didn’t take this as criticism. She
admired Friedrich Hayek’s “crisp, clear analytic arguments” in
defense of liberty and free markets. And she reveled in her
battles with the “wets” inside her own Conservative Party; the
“collectivists” in the opposition Labour Party; and the
“apparatchiks” who controlled the U.K.’s trade unions.  Global Reformer  It is that steadfastness for which Thatcher, who  died  April
8, is now remembered. As the “Iron Lady,” she privatized
government-run industries, reduced regulation and limited the
welfare state. And her influence wasn’t limited to the U.K.
After her death, the Economist magazine said she “had changed
the world.” Der Spiegel called her “one of the most important
reformers of the postwar era.”  Future historians may take a different view. Indeed, the
most important global transformation of the Thatcher era may
have been the rise of China, and its distinct model of
authoritarian capitalism. And the leader who deserves credit for
this transformation is Deng, not Thatcher.  When Deng and Thatcher came to power in 1978-79, the U.K.’s
gross domestic product was greater than that of China. More than
30 years later, China’s GDP is about triple the U.K.’s. In 1982,
none of the five busiest ports in the world was in China, and
one (Hong Kong) was under British control. By 2006, three of the
busiest five ports were Chinese. (One of these -- Shenzhen --
was only a cluster of small towns when Thatcher took office in
1979.) By the early 2000s, the number of people migrating each
year from China’s rural regions to its industrial centers
substantially exceeded the total population of the U.K.  Although Thatcher later commended China’s “embrace of
capitalism,” she did little to bring it about. Thatcher had
scarcely begun her parliamentary career when Deng articulated
his famous defense of market-oriented policies -- “It does not
matter if the cat is black or white, what matters is whether it
gets the mouse” -- in 1961.  Deng was being persecuted for rightist tendencies while
Thatcher was a backbench member of Parliament. He came to power
and launched China’s “course of four modernizations” while she
was still the leader of the opposition. Deng’s promise to
maintain the free-market model in Hong Kong, mistaken as a
concession to the West, was consistent with a policy that the
Chinese leader had been pursuing for years.  So far as the writing of history is concerned, Deng
suffered from certain disadvantages, at least in the short term.
He wasn’t the leader of an English-speaking nation. He worked
within an opaque regime. And he had learned, through brutal
experience, not to be perceived as a radical. He presented
economic modernization as a technical, rather than an
ideological, problem. And the final authority of the Communist
Party was never questioned. Reform was about economic, rather
than political, freedom.  The Thatcher years were undoubtedly a period of profound
global transformation. But the most important legacy of that era
isn’t Thatcher’s bold vision of political and market liberalism.
It is Deng’s model of authoritarian capitalism. Thatcher the
ideologue captured our attention. But Deng the pragmatist
changed our world more profoundly.  (Alasdair Roberts is the Jerome L. Rappaport professor of
law and public policy at Suffolk University Law School. His
 books  include “The Logic of Discipline: Global Capitalism and
the Architecture of Government.” The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the author of this post:
Alasdair Roberts at  alasdair.roberts@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  