-- Wind Picks Huawei for $1.3 Billion Italy Mobile Network
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-04-12T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/wind-picks-huawei-for-1-billion-euro-mobile-network-in-italy.html
Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA, the
Italian phone company owned by Russia’s  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , will
spend 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in the coming five years to
build a high-speed mobile network.  Italy’s third-largest mobile provider, based in  Rome , has
hired Shenzhen, China-based Huawei Technologies Co. and Milan-
based Sirti SpA to supply equipment and infrastructure services,
the companies said yesterday in a joint statement.  “This is certainly one of our biggest contracts in
 Europe ,” Roberto Loiola, Huawei’s head of Western Europe, said
in a conference call. Half of the revenue from Wind’s contract
will go to Huawei, Loiola said.  Like other European carriers, Wind is betting that faster
wireless service will help attract clients who are willing to
spend more on their monthly subscription. EE in the U.K. and
 France Telecom SA (FTE)  have adopted similar strategies. Wind, which
has a 23.2 percent market share according to data compiled by
Italian regulator Agcom, has been refocusing its phone packages
to include more services to raise prices, shifting away from a
low-cost strategy.  Huawei, China’s largest maker of network gear, has
predicted an increase in spending this year from carriers
building out faster networks using a technology called long-term
evolution. Ryan Ding, head of Huawei’s Carrier Network Business
Group, forecast in February that the unit’s sales will increase
by 9 percent this year to about $28 billion.  While business for Huawei has been flowing at home from the
likes of  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the company is fighting concerns
over cyber-security abroad in some markets, including the U.S.,
as American intelligence agencies and security companies traced
Web attacks to  China .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  