-- World’s Wealthiest Gain $31 Billion as Slim Preps for TV
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 2013-04-12T21:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/world-s-wealthiest-gain-31-billion-as-slim-preps-for-tv.html
The 100 wealthiest people on the
planet added $30.5 billion to their collective net worth this
week as stocks and bonds rose and commodities tumbled.  One of the week’s biggest winners by percentage was
Vladimir Lisin. The 56-year-old chairman of OAO Novolipetsk
Steel,  Russia ’s most valuable steelmaker, gained 8.9 percent --
$1.1 billion -- as the company’s shares surged. He has a $13.4
fortune, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  “It’s a double whammy, a double benefit this week, with
very stable fixed income and higher equities,” said Russ Certo,
a managing director at Brean Capital LLC in New York. “Those
with wealth have a higher percentage of equity versus
commodities and foreign exchange exposure. Commodities were
significantly lower this week.”  Gold futures traded below $1,500 for the first time since
2011, amid speculation Cyprus will sell reserves to raise cash.
The head of Cyprus’s central bank said the government is
attacking his institution’s independence and doesn’t have the
right to sell the nation’s gold reserves without the central
bank’s consent. Cyprus is finalizing a 17-billion-euro ($22.3
billion) bailout agreement that will shrink its banking sector
and tax deposits of more than 100,000 euros.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 2.29 percent during
the week to close at 1588.85 in New York. The S&P/GSCI Index, a
gauge of commodities, tumbled 1.3 percent to it lowest level
since July.  Slim, Gates  Mexican telecommunications magnate  Carlos Slim  remains the
world’s richest person. He’s preparing a push into  Mexico ’s
television market to take advantage of new telecommunications
legislation, even as the changes threaten his dominance in the
phone business. He is worth $74.5 billion, up $2.6 billion for
the week, according to the Bloomberg ranking.  While Slim’s wireless carrier,  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB, is one of
the chief targets of a bill to create more competition in
Mexico, proposals to give consumers more options in cable and
satellite TV will benefit the company, Chief Financial Officer
Carlos Garcia-Moreno said last month. The bill is under Senate
review after passing the lower house of Congress in March.  The largest wireless carrier in the Americas by subscribers
rose 3.1 percent, while Slim’s bank, Grupo Financiero Inbursa
SAB, gained 5.7 percent.  Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates, 57, is No. 2 in the world
with a net worth of $69 billion. Gates, who has donated $28
billion to his charitable foundation, gave some simple advice
this week to  Australia ’s richest man Andrew Forrest on his
crusade to end modern slavery: find a metric to quantify it.  Buffett, Ortega  “Global modern slavery is hard to measure and Bill’s a
measure kind of guy,” Forrest, 51, the founder of iron ore
producer Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. who formed the Walk Free
anti-slavery charity last year, said in a phone interview. In
McKinsey & Co. “management speak, if you can’t measure it, it
doesn’t exist,” he said.  Warren Buffett , 82, is the world’s third-richest person.
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , the company he has run for more than
four decades, gained 2.7 percent. His has a $57.3 billion
fortune.  Spanish retail tycoon  Amancio Ortega , is $1.8 billion
behind behind Buffett. The 76-year-old founder of the Zara
clothing chain has seen his wealth decline amid fresh concern
that Spain’s recession will hurt sales for his  Inditex SA (ITX) 
holding company. From a record high on Jan. 2, the shares have
slumped 8.1 percent. He’s worth $55.4 billion, down $2.1 billion
for the year.  The Bloomberg Billionaires Index takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in New York and listed in U.S.
dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  