-- Zinc Falls on Demand Concern Amid Struggle to Maintain Growth
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-04-12T09:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/zinc-falls-on-demand-concern-amid-struggle-to-maintain-growth.html
Zinc fell in London, paring the
first weekly advance in nine, on concern about prospects for
demand as economies struggle to maintain growth.  Figures on April 15 will show  China’s economy  expanded at
an 8 percent annual pace last quarter, slower than projected in
February, according to economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .
The country is the world’s biggest zinc consumer. U.K.
construction slid 7 percent on the year in February and Indian
industrial output dropped from January, reports showed today.  “Ahead of the  China  Q1 GDP figure on Monday, the market
showed caution,” Pengjiang “Richard” Fu, director for Asian
commodities trading at Newedge Group SA in London, said by e-
mail. “Copper eased down a bit.”  Zinc for delivery in three months declined 1.1 percent to
$1,892 a metric ton by 10:17 a.m. on the London Metal Exchange,
leaving prices up 0.4 percent this week. Copper retreated 0.5
percent to $7,575 a ton and the metal for delivery in May fell
0.4 percent to $3.419 a pound on the Comex in  New York .  Zinc, which protects steel from corrosion, is used
“extensively” in the  construction industry  for roofing, wall
cladding and gutters, the International Zinc Association  says .
 India  was the world’s third-biggest zinc user last year,
according to the International Lead and Zinc Study Group.  Exports from China, also the leading global consumer of
copper, rose less in March than estimated by analysts and growth
in manufacturing was weaker than projected, according to reports
this month.  Declines may be limited for copper after a pit wall
collapsed April 10 at Rio Tinto Group’s  Bingham Canyon  mine in
the U.S. Lost production stemming from the slide may wipe out a
surplus of the metal predicted for this year, UBS AG said.  LME copper  inventories , up 85 percent this year to the
highest since September 2003, climbed 0.6 percent to 593,650
tons, daily exchange figures showed. Inventories monitored by
the Shanghai Futures Exchange dropped to 228,290 tons this week.  Orders to remove copper from LME warehouses rose 1.5
percent today to a record 158,350 tons.  Aluminum, lead, nickel and tin slid in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  