-- 
Manchester Utd. Beats Bolton 1-0, Extends Premier League Lead Over Arsenal

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-03-19T19:56:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/manchester-utd-beats-bolton-1-0-extends-premier-league-lead-over-arsenal.html
Ten-man  Manchester United  beat
Bolton 1-0 to extend its lead in English soccer’s Premier League
over Arsenal, which rallied to tie West Brom 2-2.  Second-half substitute  Dimitar Berbatov  scored in the 87th
minute to give United the home victory at Old Trafford after the
host’s Jonny Evans was sent off in the 76th minute for a foul on
Stuart Holden.  The win gives United 62 points, five more than Arsenal
which has played one game less. The Gunners rebounded from a 2-0
deficit for their draw at West Brom.  West Ham moved out of the three relegation places at the
bottom of the standings after a goalless draw at Tottenham,
while Birmingham lost 2-1 at last-place Wigan to fall into the
drop zone. Wolverhampton beat  Aston Villa  1-0, Stoke routed
Newcastle 4-0, Blackburn rallied to tie Blackpool 2-2 and
Everton beat Fulham 2-1.  Berbatov came off the bench to score his league-leading
20th goal and lift Manchester United to victory. His goal three
minutes from full-time came after Bolton goalkeeper Jussi Jaaskelainen failed to hold a shot from Nani.  Evans received a red card with 14 minutes remaining for a
foot-first challenge on Holden, who was carried off the field on
a stretcher.  United is unbeaten in 15 league home matches this season,
winning 14. Manager  Alex Ferguson  watched from the directors’
box as he began a five-match suspension for recent comments
about referee  Martin Atkinson .  Comeback  Arsenal stayed in the title chase by coming from behind in
the final 20 minutes to get a draw at the Hawthorns.  Steven Reid scored with a third-minute header and  Peter
Odemwingie  added a goal in the second half, after Arsenal
goalkeeper  Manuel Almunia  ran out of his area, to give West Brom
a 2-0 lead.  Andrey Arshavin started the Arsenal comeback with a goal in
the 70th minute and  Robin van Persie  tied the score eight
minutes later.  West Ham moved above the drop with its scoreless draw at
Tottenham. Spurs remain fifth, two points behind Chelsea in the
race for the final Champions League place.  Maynor Figueroa’s goal in added time gave Wigan the win
over Birmingham which dropped the Carling Cup Champions into the
relegation zone. Matt Jarvis’s goal lifted Wolves past Aston
Villa, while Blackburn rallied for the home draw against
Blackpool on Junior Hoilett’s injury-time header.  Stoke routed Newcastle to end a four-game winless run in
the league, while Seamus Coleman and  Louis Saha  scored as
Everton ended Fulham’s five-game unbeaten streak.  Wolves have 32 points, Birmingham has 31 and Wigan has 30
in the relegation places. West Ham has 32 but is ahead of Wolves
on a superior goal difference, while Blackburn, Aston Villa,
Blackpool and West Brom all have 33 points.  Sunderland visits Liverpool and Chelsea hosts  Manchester
City  in tomorrow’s games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  