-- 
Atomic Fuel Stored at U.S. Plants Poses Risks Similar to Japan Facilities

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-03-19T00:59:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/atomic-fuel-stored-at-u-s-plants-poses-risks-similar-to-japan-facilities.html
U.S. nuclear power plants that
store thousands of metric tons of spent atomic fuel pose risks
of a crisis like the one unfolding in  Japan , where crews are
battling to prevent a meltdown of stored fuel, nuclear safety
experts said.  U.S. nuclear plants had an estimated 63,000 metric tons
(138.9 million pounds) of spent fuel stored on site as of
January 2010, according to a  report  from the U.S.  Nuclear
Regulatory Commission . About 2,000 metric tons a year is
expected to be added to that total, the NRC said.  The fuel, which contains uranium and radioactive
byproducts, is taken from reactors and stored at least five
years in water-filled cooling pools, then sometimes sealed in
steel-and-concrete casks for longer-term storage. Without
cooling, the spent fuel would overheat and release harmful
radiation.  “In the U.S., we are worse off, said  David Lochbaum , a
nuclear engineer for the Union of Concerned Scientists who is a
former safety instructor for  the NRC . ‘‘Our spent-fuel pools are
more full than in Japan.’’  Storing radioactive waste has been a key sticking point in
the expansion of nuclear power in the U.S. as landowners and
environmental groups oppose plans for fuel dumps. A storage site
at Yucca Mountain in  Nevada  was canceled by the Obama
administration in 2009 after 20 years of planning and a cost of
$9 billion.  Crisis in Japan  Tokyo Electric Power Co. is working to contain damage at
its six-reactor Fukushima plant following this month’s
earthquake and tsunami that shut down power to its cooling
systems. The company is trying to keep the spent fuel stored in
cooling pools covered with water to prevent them from being
exposed to air. If exposed to air, the fuel would overheat and
melt down, releasing radiation.  The crisis in Japan underscores why the U.S. must alter the
way it stores spent fuel at its power plants, said Robert
Alvarez, a senior scholar at the Washington-based Institute for
Policy Studies who has studied the risks of spent-fuel storage.  Thirty-five states  have facilities storing spent nuclear
fuel, including 31 with operating reactors, the NRC said in its
2010-2011 Information Digest. Illinois had the most fuel in
storage through 2009, followed by  Pennsylvania ,  South Carolina ,  New York  and  North Carolina , according to the NRC’s ranking.  Radiation Risks  ‘‘Unlike the Japanese reactors, in the  United States , the
spent-fuel pools are currently holding, on the average, four
times more than their designs intended,” Alvarez said yesterday
at a press conference in Washington. “They are densely
compacted.”  Radioactive material generates heat, so spent fuel rods
need to be cooled or their temperature will continue to rise
until they break or catch fire, releasing radiation into the
air, said Paul Padley, a physics professor at  Rice University  in
Houston.  Most spent-fuel pools have only one system to circulate
coolant, even though they accumulate far more fuel than a
reactor core, Lochbaum said. Reactors, by comparison, are
required to have multiple backup systems such as diesel pumps
and batteries to keep their fuel cool in case of a shutdown.  Fuel Storage  Spent fuel removed from reactor cores must remain in a
cooling pool for at least five years, said David McIntyre, a
spokesman for the NRC. Then, the fuel can be taken out and
sealed in a solid cask, although that is more expensive and
labor intensive, he said.  Bryant Kinney, a spokesman for the  Nuclear Energy
Institute , said a little less than a quarter of the spent fuel
stored at U.S. nuclear  power plants  is in  dry casks .  Nuclear plants weren’t designed with the intention of
storing their spent fuel permanently, said Bozidar Stojadinovic,
a professor in the department of civil and environmental
engineering at the  University of California , Berkeley.  “The plants have always been designed with the idea that
the fuel will be taken care of," Stojadinovic said. ‘‘The
government promised to do that.’’  Environmentalists and other opponents said the Yucca
Mountain storage site might be subject to earthquakes, and that
transporting the radioactive material to the site would be
hazardous. Washington state, home of a World War II-era plant
that built one of the first nuclear bombs, sued last year along
with other states to force the federal government to reverse its
decision and allow storage to be built at Yucca.  National Policy    Exelon Corp. (EXC) , the largest U.S. nuclear power-plant
operator, believes there should be a national policy controlling
commercial fuel disposal, said Craig Nesbit, a company
spokesman.  ‘‘The systems that we have in place now are adequate for
the intermediate term,’’ Nesbit said. ‘‘They are perfectly safe
and we will continue to work with those until such a national
policy is developed.’’  U.S. reactor operators must study Japan’s nuclear crisis
and consider ‘‘appropriate’’ steps to prevent similar problems,
the Nuclear Regulatory Commission said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. The NRC sent plant operators a notice with details on
the March 11 earthquake and tsunami so that they could examine
how it might apply to their facility and what changes might be
needed.  Similar Scenarios  The possible dangers of spent-fuel pools were discussed in
a  report  from the National Academies Press in 2006 that looked
at potential terrorist attacks. One of the scenarios considered
was similar to the crisis spawned by the earthquake in Japan,
said Padley, the Rice University professor.  Nuclear plants likely will face new requirements related to
spent fuel in order to obtain future license extensions, said  Kevin Book , a managing director at ClearView Energy Partners, a  Washington  policy group. If those regulations prove too
expensive, some operators may consider shutting plants, he said.  Lochbaum said some safety improvements, such as better
fire-fighting systems, have been added to spent-fuel pools since
the terrorist attacks of September 2001. The U.S. still hasn’t
acted to fix the situation, by either finding a permanent home
for spent fuel or requiring that more of it be stored in casks,
he said.  ‘‘We know the hazard, we know what the fix is,’’ Lochbaum
said.  With assistance from Simon Lomax in Washington. --Editors:
Susan Warren, Donna Alvarado  To contact the reporters on this story: Edward Klump in
Houston
at   eklump@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:  Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 Mlee326@blooomberg.net . 