-- 
Big East, Big Ten Are Big Winners at NCAA Men’s Basketball Tournament

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-03-19T05:53:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/big-east-big-ten-are-big-winners-at-ncaa-men-s-basketball-tournament.html
Seven Big East conference schools
advanced to the Round of 32 in the men’s college basketball
tournament, and five teams from the Big Ten conference moved on
to weekend action.    Duke University , Ohio State University and the University
of Kansas joined the University of Pittsburgh in the next
round. The four regional top seeds won their opening games by
an average of more than 28 points.  Kyrie Irving returned to score 14 points and lead
defending national champion Duke to an 87-45 defeat of Hampton
University yesterday on the second full day of National
Collegiate Athletic Association play.  Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski got his 899th career victory to
pull within three wins of his mentor, Naismith Memorial
Basketball Hall of Famer Bob Knight, as freshman point guard
Irving played for the first time since injuring a toe Dec. 4.  “I thought our team was sharp and I thought Kyrie was
sharp,” Krzyzewski said in a news conference. “I thought he
was very confident as it moved along.”  William Buford scored 18 points and the Ohio State
Buckeyes, the tournament’s top overall seed and No. 1 in the
East Region, hit 57 percent of their shots in a 75-46 win
against the University of Texas-San Antonio.    Kansas , the top seed in the Southwest Region, won 72-53
against Boston University at the Bank of Oklahoma Center in
Tulsa. Duke is the top seed in the West Region. Pitt, No. 1 in
the Southeast Region, won its opening game two nights ago.  Eight games are scheduled for today and eight more for
tomorrow as the field is narrowed to 16 teams by the end of the
weekend.  Big East Showdown    Connecticut  plays Cincinnati today in an all-Big East
contest. They are among the seven conference teams that won
their opening games, including Syracuse, Marquette and Notre
Dame yesterday. Another Big East school, Georgetown, lost 74-56
yesterday to Virginia Commonwealth, which hit 12 shots from 3-
point range.  “They outplayed us, they shot the ball well and they beat
us,” said Chris Wright, a senior who played his last game for
Georgetown. “They played better than us, and they deserved to
win.”    Notre Dame  got 15 points from Ben Hansbrough and topped
Akron 69-56. Marquette won 66-55 against Xavier, which shot 2-
for-13 on 3-pointers. Rick Jackson had 23 points as Syracuse
won 77-60 against Indiana State.  Four Big Ten schools won yesterday -- Ohio State,  Michigan ,  Illinois  and Purdue. Wisconsin had advanced a day
earlier.  Michigan Beats  Tennessee   Michigan rallied from a first-half deficit to beat
Tennessee by 30 points. The Wolverines went 0-for-1 from the
free-throw line, becoming the first team in NCAA tournament
history to win a game without converting a foul shot.  Illinois defeated UNLV 73-62 and next will play Kansas.
Purdue, the third seed in the Southwest, defeated St. Peter’s
College 65-43.  Also winning yesterday were  North Carolina , the No. 2 seed
in the East, which won 102-87 against the Long Island
University Blackbirds;  Texas , an 85-81 winner against Oakland;
Pacific-10 conference teams Arizona and  Washington ; Florida
State, and George Mason.  The tournament, which this year was expanded to 68 teams
from 65, concludes April 4 in Houston.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  