-- 
Canadian Currency Loses Most in Four Months on Japan Nuclear Plant Crisis

-- B y   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-19T04:00:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/canadian-currency-loses-most-in-four-months-on-japan-nuclear-plant-crisis.html
  Canada ’s dollar lost the most in
four months against its U.S. counterpart after a nuclear power-
plant crisis caused by Japan’s worst earthquake damped investor
appetite for higher-yielding currencies.  The loonie, as the currency is also known for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, pared its first weekly loss in
more than a month after the Group of Seven intervened in the
foreign-exchange markets to stabilize the yen. Canadian retail
sales increased, data next week may show.  “The focus this week has been on  risk aversion , moving
away from higher-yielding currencies like the Australian dollar
and Canadian dollar,” said  Darren Richardson , senior corporate
dealer in Toronto at CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign-
exchange company. “It’s going to be a wait-and-see situation to
see what comes out of Japan and whether the market has the
tolerance for taking on more risk.”  The Canadian currency depreciated 1.1 percent, the most
since the five days ended Nov. 12, to 98.43 cents per  U.S.
dollar  yesterday in Toronto from 97.32 on March 11. It touched
the weakest level in a month, 99.74 cents, on March 17. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0160.  The loonie fell to 77.16 yen on March 17, its lowest level
in almost two years, as the Japanese currency surged amid
speculation Japanese investors were bringing home overseas
assets to pay for rebuilding after the deadly temblor and
tsunami six days earlier.  The G-7 nations, including Canada, agreed in a conference
call on March 17 to jointly intervene in the foreign-exchange
market for the first time since 2000 to stabilize the yen.
Central banks intervene by selling or buying currencies to
influence prices.  Most Since May  The Canadian dollar strengthened as much as 4.3 percent
yesterday against the Japanese currency, the biggest intraday
jump since May, to 83.52 yen.  The loonie gained against the U.S. dollar earlier yesterday
as crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, rose on concern turmoil
in  Libya  and the Middle East would disrupt supplies. Futures for
April delivery rose to $103.66 a barrel in New York, the highest
since March 10.  Crude reversed its advance, erasing a weekly gain, after
Libyan Foreign Minister Moussa Koussa said in a televised news
conference the North African nation is ceasing all military
action and will start talks with rebels. The  United Nations
Security Council  on March 17 approved military intervention to
protect civilians in Libya, and President  Barack Obama  said
yesterday  Muammar Qaddafi  must stop violence and repression
against the Libyan people or face a military response by an
international coalition.  Crude futures ended the week little changed at $101.07. The
commodity has gained 11 percent this year.  Commodities Slip  Other commodities slid on speculation that business
shutdowns in quake-damaged  Japan  would hurt demand. The
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of  raw materials  declined 0.2
percent on the week. Raw materials account for about half of
Canada’s export revenue.  “The Canadian dollar is a commodity currency,” said  Tim O’Sullivan , chief trader at FOREX.com, a unit of the online
currency trading company Gain Capital in Bedminster,  New Jersey .
“It’s going to reflect the fundamentals of oil and metals and
certainly natural gas.”  The loonie outperformed the currencies of other countries
that export commodities this week, including  Australia  and  New
Zealand . The Australian dollar weakened against all of its 16
major peers, and the  New Zealand dollar  fell versus 14 of 16.  Aussie Versus Loonie  “The Aussie has the potential to be particularly impacted
by things going on from the Japanese side, and that’s not really
the case for the Canadian dollar,” said Jens Nordvig, a
managing director of currency research in  New York  at Nomura
Holdings Inc.  Japan is Australia’s second-largest trade partner. Canada’s
biggest is the U.S.  Canada’s government bonds rose this week, pushing the yield
on the benchmark 10-year note down 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 3.17 percent. It touched 3.12 percent, the
lowest level since Jan. 4. The price of the 3.5 percent security
due in June 2020 increased 86 cents to C$102.66. The 2-year note
yield dropped 14 basis points to 1.61 percent and touched 1.52
percent, the lowest since Nov. 8.  The loonie gained versus the greenback on March 17 as data
showed foreigners bought a net C$13.3 billion ($13.4 billion) of
Canadian securities in January, including C$10.1 billion of
federal  government bonds . The total was more than double the $6
billion forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Retail Sales  Canadian retail sales rose 1 percent in January, after
unexpectedly declining 0.2 percent the previous month, according
to the median forecast of 23 economists before  Statistics Canada 
reports the data on March 22.  Data this week showed Canadian factory sales rose in
January more than four times faster than economists predicted,
on a surge in production by carmakers, auto parts manufacturers
and aerospace companies. Sales increased 4.5 percent to C$47.7
billion ($48.5 billion) from December, Statistics Canada said.  Inflation, excluding volatile items such as gasoline,
slowed to a record low last month on a drop in prices for hotels
and cars, the nation’s statistics agency said yesterday. The
core inflation index, which excludes eight volatile items, rose
0.9 percent from a year earlier, after a 1.4 percent gain in
January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexandra Harris in New York at 
 Aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  