-- 
CDU Budget Expert Barthele Urges Merkel to Push Down ESM Costs

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-03-19T17:05:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/cdu-budget-expert-barthele-urges-merkel-to-push-down-esm-costs.html
  Chancellor Angela Merkel  should try
to push down the costs for German taxpayers of stocking the
future European Security Mechanism with adequate funding, said
her party’s budget spokesman, Norbert Barthele.    Germany  may be faced with paying up to 80 billion euros to
the ESM on top of the 123 billion euros ($174.5 billion) it
pledged last year to a temporary rescue fund, said Barthele in
an interview. About a quarter of the extra finance may be in the
form of cash, said Barthele, citing official estimates.  As euro-group finance ministers prepare to meet tomorrow in
Brussels to hammer out who pays what into the ESM, “Germany
really must make a push to limit the fall out on taxpayers,”
said the budget expert by phone today. “In the very least, we
must ensure that we don’t have to pay any cash component in one
go in 2013.”  Euro-region leaders have commissioned ratings firms to
assess how their countries may limit the new cash component of
the ESM without jeopardizing its outlook for a triple-A rating.
The euro-group said on March 12 after a meeting that the fund’s
500 billion euro composition would comprise guarantees, so-
called “paid-in” capital as well as “callable” capital.  In euro-group talks tomorrow, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  should ensure that Germany, which is the biggest
contributor to the temporary fund, won’t be compelled to pay its
stake in the ESM in one go.  “That would send net borrowing sky rocketing,” said
Barthele. Depending on the assessment of ratings firms and
negotiation positions of the euro-group, Germany may be landed
with 20 billion euros to pay into the ESM “as a worst case,”
he said. “Payment in installments would be the only solution.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Brussels at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at  at
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  