-- 
Clinton Says Arab Nation Made Pivotal Statement on Libya

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-03-19T20:37:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/clinton-says-arab-nation-made-pivotal-statement-on-libya-1-.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said the United States will support its European, Canadian and
Arab partners in their efforts to stop further violence against
civilians in  Libya  by Muammar Qaddafi’s forces, including
“through the effective implementation of a no-fly zone.”  Arab nation leadership in efforts to stop violence in Libya
has played a key role in mobilizing the international coalition,
Clinton said. Clinton said that the  Arab League  with its
“pivotal statement” changed the “diplomatic landscape” with
regard to the approach toward the United Nations Security
Council resolution this week authorizing “all necessary
measures,” including a no-fly zone to end violence and protect
civilians in that country.  Clinton spoke to reporters in Paris today after a summit
with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , officials from the Arab
League and European leaders.  Clinton made it clear that the U.S. will play a supporting
role in the international coalition, in which French fighter
planes were flying over Libya and hitting military targets.  If left “unchecked,” Qaddafi will commit “unspeakable
atrocities,” Clinton said. Qaddafi continues to “defy the
world,” she said.  Arab nations sent another “strong message” by
participating in the Paris summit, Clinton said. She spoke to
counterparts from Iraq, Qatar,  United Arab Emirates , Morocco and
Jordan. She said she also spoke to Arab League Secretary General
Amre Moussa.  “The very strong statements that were made by Arab
representatives is extraordinarily important,” Clinton said.
She said the  United States  will look to Arab nations “for
continued leadership” as well as “active” participation in
the Libyan efforts. Clinton did not say what kind of assets Arab
countries, such as the UAE and Qatar, might send to enforce the
UN resolution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Paris at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net 
-0- Mar/19/ :30 GMT 