-- 
Cuomo Seeks Meeting With NRC About Indian Point Safety

-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 
2011-03-19T17:48:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/cuomo-seeks-meeting-with-u-s-nrc-about-indian-point-safety.html
  New York  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said
Lieutenant Governor Robert McDuffy and other state officials
will meet with the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission to discuss
how safe  Entergy Corp. (ETR) ’s Indian Point nuclear-power plant,
located north of New York City, would be in an earthquake.  Cuomo earlier this week expressed surprise at reports that
the Indian Point plant, which opened in 1962, was the most
vulnerable to an earthquake of all U.S. nuclear facilities.
Regulators have been concerned after  Japan ’s struggles to avert
a disaster at a power plant crippled last week by a tsunami and
the 9.0 magnitude temblor off the northeastern coast.  The gathering on March 22 was set up by the White House at
Cuomo’s request, the governor’s office said in an e-mailed
statement. It will include Howard Glaser, director of New York
state operations, the statement said.  The meeting is intended to determine Indian Point’s
earthquake vulnerabilities, preparedness and risk assessment,
according to the statement. Rich Bamberger, a spokesman for the
governor, could not immediately say where the meeting would be
held.  The reactors, located about 24 miles (38 kilometers) from  New York City , supply 25 percent of the power used by the city
and suburban Westchester County. They are designed to withstand
at least a magnitude 6 earthquake, said Jerry Nappi, a plant
spokesman. A magnitude 7 earthquake in the region is possible,
based on the features of the two faults, according to scientists
at  Columbia University ’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory.  ‘Should be Closed’  Cuomo said in a March 16 press conference in Albany that
while he was New York’s attorney general, he’d concluded Indian
Point shouldn’t have been issued a new license and “should be
closed.”  An emergency plan for the evacuation of about 320,000
people within a 10-mile radius of the plant is evaluated every
two years by the  Federal Emergency Management Agency , according
to Nappi. The plan was approved last year.  “You cannot move that many people in the amount of time
required because there aren’t that many roads,” said Paul
Gallay, executive director of Riverkeeper Inc., an environmental
watchdog group based in Ossining, New York, that says the
evacuation plan isn’t adequate.  Separately, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has been
aware of a leak in the liner of a refueling cavity at Indian
Point since 1993 and yet allowed the plant to continue
operating, according to a  report  by the Union of Concerned
Scientists.  The liner was installed to prevent leaking of radioactive
material during an earthquake and the chances of that equipment
fulfilling its safety function is “nil,” the report said.  “We believe Indian Point is capable of withstanding the
most significant historical earthquake for that area,” said
Neil Sheehan, a spokesman for the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission .  To contact the reporter on this story:  Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  