-- 
Egypt’s First Ballot After Mubarak Tests Country’s Shift Toward Democracy

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-03-19T18:16:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/egypt-s-first-ballot-after-mubarak-tests-country-s-shift-toward-democracy.html
Egyptians cast ballots today, many
for the first time, in a constitutional referendum that will
test the country’s democratic transformation and may help
determine who will emerge as its new power brokers.  The referendum on constitutional changes, drafted by a
committee appointed by the military council running the country
since last month’s ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak , asks
Egyptians to approve measures including  term limits  for
presidents and fuller judicial oversight of voting. They are
aimed at paving the way for parliamentary and presidential
elections.  “I’ve been waiting for this day to vote,” said 36-year-
old Hadeel Saeed, who was queuing at a polling station in
central Cairo. “I’m so happy. I now feel that I have an opinion
that matters.” Egyptian Prime Minister Essam Sharaf called the
vote “a celebration of democracy,” according to the Cabinet’s
Facebook Inc. page.  Backers such as the Muslim Brotherhood, banned under
Mubarak, say amendments will help speed up the transition to
civilian rule, free the army for duties like guarding national
security and end turmoil that is hurting the economy. Opponents
say proposals aren’t enough to advance democracy and a rushed
transition will let established forces -- the Brotherhood, and
Mubarak’s former ruling party -- dominate Parliament at the
expense of activists who led the popular uprising.  Muslim Brotherhood  “The support of the Islamic currents and of the
Brotherhood for the amendments has complicated the referendum
and increased the state of polarization,” said Amr el-Choubaki,
director of the Alternatives Forum for Political Studies, an
independent research organization, by telephone in Cairo “If
the changes are accepted, then the power of the Brotherhood will
increase.”  Opponents advocate rewriting the constitution from scratch
and call for more time to prepare for legislative elections.
That’s the reverse of the timetable set out in one of the
amendments, which says that after elections Parliament would
create a constituent assembly to write a new constitution.  Turnout appeared to be high, in contrast with previous
votes. Outside some polling stations, lines snaked as voters,
some leaning on canes, waited to cast their ballots. Animated
debates broke out among supporters and opponents. Outside a
polling station at a school in Cairo’s Saida Zeinab district,
49-year-old Sumaia Shaker, who works for the National Research
Centre, lobbied for a “yes” vote.  Polling Debate  “Vote ‘yes’ so that we can have some stability and have a
new parliament,” she told a small group of would-be voters.
“It’s your duty to spread the word. Otherwise, chaos will
reign.”  “You want us to build on a constitution that is flawed?”
responded Ali Talaat, a 22-year-old merchant who rejects the
changes.  Inside, Samah Emad, a 32-year-old housewife, stood in line
to cast ballots for the first time.  “Before, we had no elections. Everything was rigged. Now,
I am determined to say ‘no’ so that I can feel that I am in a
democratic country,” she said. “I don’t want the former ruling
party or the Brotherhood to be in charge.”  Uncertain Future    Egypt ’s political transition is still “fraught with
uncertainty” that is damaging the “fiscal position and broader
economic performance,” Moody’s Investors Service said on March
16, justifying its decision to cut the debt rating one level.
Yields on benchmark 10-year dollar bonds, at about 6.8 percent,
have jumped more than 160 basis points this year.  Egypt’s stock market has been shut for seven weeks, many
tourists have stayed away and factory output has been hit by
strikes. Sharaf said today Egypt’s stock exchange may open
“within days” after remaining closed since Jan. 27. Finance
Minister Samir Radwan has forecast economic growth of 4 percent
this fiscal year, down from a pre-crisis estimate of 6 percent.  The proposed amendments would limit presidents to two four-
year terms, ease restrictions on who can run for the post, and
let judges scrutinize the balloting when elections are held.
Opponents say they fail to curb the powers of the president, a
measure they say is necessary to prevent Mubarak-era abuses.  Those campaigning against the changes include potential
presidential candidates Amr Moussa and  Mohamed ElBaradei ,
prominent businessman  Naguib Sawiris  and the Alliance of the
Youths’ Revolution, a coalition of protesting groups. ElBaradei
said he had been attacked on his way to vote.  Restrictions Eased  Restrictions on forming political parties will be eased
after the referendum and parliamentary elections will probably
be in September, allowing new parties time to organize and
promote their platforms, Major General Mamdouh Shahine, the
assistant defense minister for legal and constitutional affairs,
told Al Masry Al Youm newspaper. If the changes are rejected,
the military council is expected to issue a constitutional
declaration with guidelines for the transitional period.  The Brotherhood has been seeking to assuage fears its
influence is growing, saying it will not field a presidential
candidate or seek a majority in a new parliament.  About 45 million Egyptians, more than half of the country’s
population, were eligible to vote today. Balloting started at 8
a.m. and officially ended at 7 p.m. but voters who queued up
before the closing time were still allowed to cast ballots,
Egypt’s Middle East News Agency said. Results are expected
tomorrow or the following day. Voters must accept or reject the
amendments as a single package.  Step to Democracy  “We are seeing huge numbers of voters. We are seeing many,
many first time voters and that is very significant,” said
Ghada Shahbender, a member of the board of The Egyptian
Organization for Human Rights, which monitored the vote. “I’m
beyond thrilled with the participation rate. Our silent majority
is finally out.”  Shahbender said there were “procedural errors” like
unstamped ballot cards --which was dealt with by having members
of the judiciary sign the cards -- but “I didn’t see intent on
fraud.” Voting under Mubarak was regularly overshadowed by low
turnout, violence and widespread allegations of rigging.  ElBaradei said he was “attacked by organized thugs” and
his car stoned when he went to vote, according to a comment on
his Twitter account. “Holding a referendum in the absence of
law and order is an irresponsible act,” he wrote. Footage aired
by  Al Arabiya  showed ElBaradei being hurried to his car as what
appeared to be rocks were thrown at it.  Google Inc. executive Wael Ghonim, one of the online
activists who helped spark the uprising and who was jailed in
its early stages, has said he will be casting a ballot for the
first time.  “Finally, I feel that my vote counts,” he wrote on his
Twitter account. “Democracy is worth all the sacrifice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 