-- 
England’s Six Nations Grand Slam Bid Is Dashed by 24-8 Loss to Ireland

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-03-19T22:08:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/england-s-six-nations-grand-slam-bid-is-dashed-by-24-8-loss-to-ireland.html
England was denied its first Six
Nations rugby Grand Slam in eight years after losing its final
game to Ireland 24-8, but still claimed the title after  Wales 
lost 28-9 to France.  England finished with eight points after winning its first
four games. Defending champion France, Ireland and Wales had six
points each, followed by Scotland and Italy with two apiece.  Though Wales would have had eight points if it won in
Paris, the English were virtually assured of the title because
of a better points difference. That put the English focus on
completing a perfect run through the tournament -- known as the
Grand Slam.  “You don’t want to seem ungracious but we missed out on
the big one today,” England captain Nick Easter told the
British Broadcasting Corp. after receiving the Six Nations
trophy at the team hotel in Dublin. “I guess it’s a little bit
of a reward for the strides we made this year.”  The past three champions -- Wales, Ireland and  France  --all
did the Grand Slam.  “I said to the boys, we take it on the chin,” England
coach  Martin Johnson  told the  BBC  after the game. “We certainly
got beat today. It’s disappointing because they worked hard to
get where we wanted to get.”  ‘Very, Very Good’  Tommy Bowe and Brian O’Driscoll touched down as Ireland
outscored England two tries to one at Aviva Stadium. Jonathan
Sexton kicked 14 points for the Irish, who led 17-3 at halftime.  “We knew it was in us,” O’Driscoll, who scored his record
25th Six Nations try, told the BBC. “For some reason it didn’t
happen in the first four (games). Today we were very, very
good.”  Lionel Nallet scored two tries as France took second place
on points difference over Ireland and Wales. James Hook kicked
three penalties for Wales, which dropped to fourth place with
the defeat.    Scotland  beat Italy 21-8 at Murrayfield in Edinburgh for
its first win in this year’s competition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 