-- 
French Fighter Jets Fire Upon Libyan Military Vehicles as Offensive Begins

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 
2011-03-19T19:17:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/french-jets-fire-on-libyan-military-vehicles-as-qaddafi-fights.html
French fighter jets fired shots at
Libyan armored vehicles today in two separate incidents in the
first reported engagement of international forces against  Muammar Qaddafi  and his loyalists, who have scorned calls for a
cease-fire.  The first jet “neutralized” a vehicle at 2:45 p.m. local
time, said Colonel Thierry Burkhard, a French defense ministry
spokesman. Details of a separate attack on four tanks were
provided by a military source who could not be named because of
defense ministry rules. The strike occurred as coalition forces
imposed a naval blockade of Libya, according to a Sky News
report.  European, U.S. and Arab officials had gathered in Paris
earlier to discuss the situation in Libya and the enforcement of
a no-fly zone. Even as they met, Qaddafi’s forces attacked the
rebel stronghold of Benghazi in defiance of their pledge and
international demands for a cease-fire, television stations
reported.  “Right now our planes are blocking air strikes on the
city” of Benghazi, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  told
reporters today before the strike. “French planes are ready to
act against armored vehicles that would be threatening unarmed
civilians.”  U.S. Support  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said the U.S. will
support international efforts to protect civilians. “America
has unique capabilities, and we will bring them to bear to help
our European and Canadian allies and Arab partners stop future
violence against civilians,” she said at a news conference in
Paris.  Clinton said the U.S. would support “all necessary
measures” to implement a United Nations-authorized no-fly zone,
while reiterating President Barack Obama who said that the U.S.
doesn’t plan to send ground troops to the country.  The Libyan revolt is the bloodiest of popular uprisings in
the Middle East this year that have toppled Tunisian President
Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak .
There have also been anti-government demonstrations in Yemen,
Bahrain, Jordan, Syria, Algeria,  Iran , Iraq and Oman, calling
for democracy and improved living standards.  “The time for action has come,” British Prime Minister
David Cameron said today. It is “vitally important action takes
place, urgently.”  Unanimous Vote  The UN Security Council voted March 17 to ground Qaddafi’s
air force and to grant military authority to the U.S. and its
allies to protect civilians and population centers threatened by
his forces.  The UN’s principal policy-making panel voted 10-0, with
five abstentions, to adopt a resolution that establishes a no-
fly zone over Libya, demands a cease-fire and allows “all
necessary measures” to protect civilians “excluding a foreign
occupation force of any form on any part of Libyan territory.”    Brazil ,  China ,  Germany ,  India  and  Russia  abstained.    Libya ’s crude oil exports may be halted for “many months”
because of damage to facilities and international sanctions, the  International Energy Agency  said March 15. Crude oil for April
delivery slipped 9 cents to $101.07 a barrel this week on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The conflict, which has left
hundreds dead, has sent futures up about 23 percent from a year
ago.  Al-Jazeera cited the head of the rebel council, Mustafa Abdel Jalil, as saying bombing raids took place in Benghazi,
which has about 1 million people. There is no indication that
Qaddafi is following through on his regime’s pledge to observe
UN demands for a cease-fire, a State Department official said.  Arab Leaders  Arab officials attending the Paris summit included Arab
League Secretary-General Amr Moussa, United Arab Emirates
Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al-Nahyan, Iraqi
Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari, Jordanian Foreign Minister
Nasser Judeh,  Morocco ’s Foreign Minister Taieb Fassi Fihri and
Qatar Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad Bin Jasim Al Thani, according
to an e-mailed list of the participants.  Qaddafi must “immediately end the acts of violence carried
out against civilians,” according to a joint statement issued
after the meeting in Paris.  “We cannot allow the slaughter to continue,” Cameron
said.  ‘Without Any Limits’  The U.K is deploying Tornado and BAE Systems Plc
Eurofighter Typhoon jets. Italy’s cabinet approved the use of as
many as seven air bases for the operation. Italy is only
providing bases, not aircraft, for the mission for the moment,
Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi said. The NATO base in Naples
will probably be the main center for coordinated international
action, Berlusconi told reporters in Paris.  Libya has about 30 sites with surface-to-air (SAM)
missiles, linked to 15 early-warning radar, that pose a
“significant threat” to foreign warplanes over or near Libyan
airspace, according to information provided by the Pentagon.  Libya has a limited  air force , with about 80 percent of its
aircraft “non-operational.” Libyan pilot training levels and
air combat tactics “have remained far inferior to those of U.S.
pilots and well-trained Middle Eastern pilots,” such as those
from  Egypt  and  Saudi Arabia , according to the Pentagon.  U.S. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates postponed a trip to
Russia, scheduled to begin today, to monitor developments in
Libya from  Washington , Pentagon spokesman  Geoff Morrell  said by
telephone to reporters gathered at Andrews Air
Force base to travel with Gates.  CF-18 Jets  Canada will deploy six CF-18 fighter jets, Postmedia News
reported, citing people not identified by name.    Norway  will contribute as many as six F-16s and one Orion
plane with crew of about 100 in five to 10 days, Aftenposten
reported today citing Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg.  Denmark has sent six F-16s to the U.S. Naval Air
Station at Sigonella in Sicily, several of which are likely to
be in Libyan airspace Sunday, Danish news agency Ritzau and
newspaper Jyllands-Posten said today.  Qatar plans to take part in the mission to protect Libyan
civilians under the UN resolution, the state-run Qatar News
Agency.  The U.S. sent as many as 1,200 Marines and two Navy
vessels, including the amphibious assault ship  USS Kearsarge , to
the Mediterranean Sea off the Libyan coast, Gates said March 1.
The U.S. is also monitoring Libyan airspace.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  