-- 
Gbagbo Urges Ivory Coast Resistance After Attack Kills 30 People in Market

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-03-19T01:21:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/gbagbo-urges-ivory-coast-resistance-after-deadly-market-attack.html
Ivory Coast ’s incumbent leader,  Laurent Gbagbo , called on the population to “fight the rebels”
after forces loyal to him shelled a market this week in Abidjan,
killing as many as 30 people.  “Rebels are hidden in the civilian society, so we ask the
people to collaborate with us, and let us inform so as to locate
the rebels whom we consider terrorists,” Ahoua Don Mello,
spokesman for Gbagbo’s government, said by phone from Abidjan.  At least six 81-millimeter (3.2-inch) mortar shells were
fired from a military camp on March 17, the  United Nations
Mission in Ivory Coast  said in e-mailed statements. Between 25
and 30 people were killed and as many as 60 injured, it said.  The Abidjan suburb of Abobo is a stronghold of  Alassane Ouattara , the internationally recognized winner of the Nov. 28
presidential election.  “Such an act, perpetrated against civilians, could
constitute a crime against humanity,” the UN said.  The  Ivory Coast , the world’s top cocoa producer, has been
gripped by a political crisis since the electoral commission
named Ouattara the election winner and Gbagbo refused to cede
power. Clashes intensified in recent weeks between forces loyal
to the leaders, bringing the West African nation to the brink of
civil war. At least 435 people have died since mid-December,
according to the UN.  In a statement released last night in  Washington , Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  said the U.S. condemned Gbagbo’s
“continued attacks on unarmed civilians” and demanded “an
immediate end to this brutality.” Gbagbo’s “incendiary
rhetoric stands in sharp contrast to President Ouattara’s appeal
for calm and restraint,” she said.  Midnight Visit  Residents of at least three shantytowns in Abidjan’s suburb
of Cocody said they had been threatened by pro-Gbagbo militias
claiming to search for rebels.  “Just after midnight our neighborhood received a visit
from pro-Gbagbo youth accusing us of hiding rebels,” Idriss
Yanobo, who is originally from  Burkina Faso , said in a telephone
interview. “I want to leave the area but I have nowhere else to
go.”  Armed pro-Gbagbo forces also surrounded a shantytown in the
center of Cocody yesterday, a witness said.  “Some of them were carrying Kalashnikovs and they
surrounded the town. They did not shoot, but it looked very
threatening,” said Arouna Ouadrago, a resident, by phone.  A number of those killed in the shelling were women and
children,  Amnesty International  said in an e-mailed statement,
citing unidentified people it said were witnesses.  “The security forces responsible for this appalling
shelling must immediately end the use of force that causes the
deaths and injuries of people going about their daily lives,”
said Veronique Aubert, deputy director for  Africa  at the London-
based rights group, according to the statement.  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  condemned the attack
as “abhorrent” and called for Ouattara to take up “his
rightful position” as president, according to an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax in Johannesburg at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net ;
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  