-- 
Goldman Says Chatterjee to Head India Unit; Entwistle Moves to Singapore

-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-03-21T07:56:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/goldman-sachs-names-sonjoy-chatterjee-india-chairman-vijay-karnani-co-ceo.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  named
Sonjoy Chatterjee  to the new post of  India  chairman to lead the
U.S. firm’s expansion of banking and asset management operations
in the world’s second-fastest growing major economy.  L. Brooks Entwistle, who has been chief executive officer
in the South Asian nation since January 2006, is moving to  Singapore  to become chairman and head of investment banking for  Southeast Asia , according to two March 18 internal memos
obtained by Bloomberg. Chatterjee had been hired in April from  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  as managing director and co-chief for India.  Entwistle, 43, moved to India as the New York-based firm
dismantled its joint venture with billionaire Uday Kotak in 2006
to set up its own  investment banking  unit. He oversaw its bid
last week to buy India’s largest provider of index-tracking
funds, the application for a commercial banking license and the
almost fourfold expansion of a back-office unit in Bangalore.  The purchase of Benchmark Asset Management Co., which is to
be completed this year, will give Goldman Sachs access to a
market where assets managed by  mutual funds  have more than
tripled to 6.8 trillion rupees ($150 billion) in the five years
to Dec. 31, according to the Association of Mutual Funds of
India. The terms of the transaction weren’t disclosed.  Benchmark Asset oversaw 29.35 billion rupees in assets as
of Dec. 31. Goldman Sachs, which set up its local fund unit in
2008, had no assets under management at the end of December.  No. 1 Ranking  Goldman Sachs has about 13,600 staff, or 42 percent of its
employees, based outside of the Americas, and generates about 20
percent of its revenue from  Asia , according to company financial
filings.  It ranked as the No. 1 manager of initial public offerings
in the Asia-Pacific region last year and was ranked sixth for
arranging sales of bonds in dollars, euros and yen in the
region, excluding Japan, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The bank was also one of three hired to manage
Hutchison Port Holdings Trust’s $5.5 billion IPO, the world’s
largest this year.  Chatterjee and Vijay Karnani will be co-chief executive
officers overseeing Goldman Sachs’s Indian unit in Mumbai,
according to the memos. Tim Leissner will relocate to Hong Kong
from Singapore to take up more senior responsibilities across
the region, they said.  ICICI Departure  Chatterjee joined Goldman Sachs last year following a 16-
year career at ICICI Bank, where he served as an executive
director with responsibility for corporate and investment
banking, project finance, government banking and international
banking businesses.  Karnani was appointed head of Goldman Sachs’s securities
division in India in 2009. He joined the firm in 1998 in the
equity capital markets team, moving to equity derivatives in  Hong Kong  in 2000 and then to the Asian special situations group
in 2006. He was named managing director in 2007 and partner in
2010.  Goldman Sachs, which set up its Indian operations in
December 2006 after exiting the 10-year-old joint venture with
Kotak Mahindra Group, now has investment banking, offshore asset
management, equity trading and sales, fixed income securities
and research services in the nation. The company has also
deployed more than $2 billion in capital since 2006 through
private equity and other investments, it said in April.  Bangalore Center  The firm employs about 3,000 people in the southern city of
Bangalore to provide back-office support and services to its
global operations, it said in April. That’s up from about 850
people when Entwistle took over operations in the nation.  Entwistle became a partner at Goldman Sachs in 2008, giving
him a share of a special bonus at the end of each year. Before
helming Indian operations, he had completed stints as managing
director of the financial services group in  New York , chief
operating officer for Asia ex  Japan  and as Hong Kong-based co-
head of its Asia technology group in the investment banking
unit.  The year that Goldman Sachs split with Kotak Mahindra, the  U.S. bank  ranked 18th in Indian M&A advisory. It ranked 14th
last year, and is No. 2 this year, according to Bloomberg data.
The company isn’t among the top 20 banks for share sales in
India this year, and ranked No. 16 last year, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  