-- 
Libyan Oil Chief Says Production Falls, ‘Could Reach a Halt’

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   I n a l   E r s a n
-- 
2011-03-19T22:33:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/libya-oil-chief-says-crude-production-could-reach-a-halt-due-to-conflict.html
  Libya ’s oil production fell to less
than 400,000 barrels a day after foreign companies pulled out
their staff, the chairman of the country’s state-run National
Oil Corp.,  Shokri Ghanem , said in a televised media conference
from Tripoli.  Ghanem said the North African country had no intention of
breaking commitments with foreign companies and called on them
to send their employees back to resume work. Libya may otherwise
award new oil and gas concessions directly to companies in
countries such as China, India and  Brazil  in order to raise
production, which “could reach a halt,” he said.  Within hours of Ghanem’s remarks, war planes and naval
vessels from the U.S.,  Canada ,  France , the U.K. and  Italy  began
bombing Libyan air defenses and other military targets to
enforce a United Nations-authorized no-fly zone. Earlier today,
dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  abandoned a cease-fire he announced
yesterday and ordered an attack on the rebel stronghold of
Benghazi.  Oil and gas installations in Libya, including the main oil
hub of Ras Lanuf, were damaged in fighting between rebels
seeking the ouster of Qaddafi and forces loyal to him after mass
protests against his four-decade rule erupted on Feb. 17.  Supply Drops  “We are continuing to monitor the situation,”  Michaela Huber , a spokeswoman for Vienna-based  OMV AG (OMV) , said in an e-mail.  Robert Wine , a spokesman for  BP Plc (BP/) , said the London-based
company is also keeping an eye on events in the country.  Daily supply from  Africa ’s third-largest producer dropped
by an estimated 195,000 barrels to 1.385 million barrels in
February, from 1.58 million barrels the previous month, before
slumping to a “trickle” by March 11, the Paris-based
 International Energy Agency  said in its monthly Oil Market
Report.  Oil fell yesterday after the Libyan regime said it would
cease military operations and begin talks with the rebels. Crude
for April delivery dropped 35 cents to settle at $101.07 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures were up as
much as 2.2 percent at $103.66 before the Libyan announcement.    Oil prices  have risen by more than 10 percent in the past
three months as unrest has spread across the Middle East,
toppling the leaders of Tunisia and Egypt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Inal Ersan in Dubai at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Digby Lidstone at 
 dlidstone@bloomberg.net  