-- 
Japan Atomic Crisis Eases as U.S. Says Worst May Be Over

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-03-21T00:54:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/japan-s-tepco-seeks-to-restore-power-to-damaged-nuclear-plant.html
Japan had some success cooling
reactors at the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, bringing
two of the six reactors under control and connecting a second
electric cable to the station, according to reports.    Tokyo  Electric Power Co., the operator, declared Units 5
and 6 safe after cooling water pumped into them reduced
temperatures. An electric cable was hooked up to the No. 5
reactor, Kyodo News said, citing Tepco.  U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu said the Obama
administration believes the worst of the crisis is over. Unit
2, where Tepco connected a 1.5-kilometer (1 mile) power cable
March 18 as it tried to revive cooling systems knocked out by
the magnitude-9 temblor and tsunami, is the main source of
concern, Chu said on CNN’s “State of the Union” program.  “Because of the higher levels of radiation there, we
take that as evidence that there might be a breach in that
containment vessel,” he said. “But they’re not
extraordinarily high, so it appears if there is a breach, it
would be a limited breach. But, again, we don’t really
know.”  The  International Atomic Energy Agency ’s 35-member board
of governors will convene an extraordinary meeting today for
the first time since Dec. 2009 when Director General Yukiya Amano was voted into his post. Amano will report on his March
19 meeting with Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  and senior
nuclear officials.  Shifting Winds  Radiation measured in Tokyo, 220 kilometers (140 miles)
south of Fukushima, declined marginally yesterday, to 0.0480
microgray per hour between 3 p.m. and 4 p.m. local time
yesterday. In Kitaibaraki City, located between Tokyo and the
damaged plant, radiation was at 0.783 at 3 p.m., down from
readings above 1 microgray on March 18. An x-ray typically
has 50 micrograys of radiation.  Shifting winds and rain will carry radiation released
from the Fukushima complex inland and deposit radionuclides
on the ground,  Austria ’s Meteorological and Geophysics Center
reported yesterday, citing United Nations data.  “From the point of view of the worst-case scenario, the
largest emissions are behind us and they went out to the  Pacific Ocean ,”  Sergei Kiriyenko , head of  Russia ’s state
nuclear power company, Rosatom Corp., said on Russian state
TV Vesti. He said there may continue to be periodic emissions.  Stabilizing Pressure  Japan’s military sprayed water from fire engines to cool
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi No. 4 reactor, the site of two blazes
last week. Pressure in No. 3, which spiked earlier, has
stabilized, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said in Tokyo
yesterday.  Tepco considered venting radioactive steam from the
reactor yesterday before it stabilized, said Naoyuki
Matsumoto, a company spokesman.  Tepco is still working on getting power fully restored
after connecting the cable to Unit 2, Matsumoto said by phone
late yesterday. Water pumps and controls may still fail to
function once power is back if they’ve been damaged. A
successful hook-up would advance efforts to prevent a
meltdown.  If fuel rods in the plant have been damaged, the reactor
cores may be more difficult to cool after power is restored,
Edwin Lyman, a physicist with the Union of Concerned
Scientists, said on a conference call.  Hazardous Work  Efforts to contain the crisis have been hampered by
radiation that made it hazardous for workers to spend
prolonged periods in the immediate vicinity of damaged
buildings. Soldiers from  Japan ’s Self Defense Force and
firefighters from Tokyo have used water cannons, specialized
fire equipment and helicopters to douse damaged reactor No. 3
for the past five days.  Temperatures at spent-fuel cooling pools at all six
reactors measured below 100 degrees Celsius (212 degrees
Fahrenheit), Kyodo News said.  “These readings are something that Japanese people can
be relieved to hear,” Kyodo quoted Defense Minister Toshimi Kitazawa as saying at a press conference yesterday.  The longer Tepco can prevent overheating of the reactor
cores and water-filled pools used to store spent fuel, the
smaller the supply becomes of the most dangerous, volatile
elements, said Roger N. Blomquist, principal nuclear engineer
at the Argonne National Laboratory, near  Chicago .  Tainted Spinach  The radioactive nature of the fuel means that it’s in a
constant state of decay, he said. Even if some of the nuclear
material has started melting, restoring electrical systems
will enable Tepco to bring temperatures down to a manageable
level so corrective measures and a cleanup can begin, said
Blomquist, who oversees the nuclear section at Argonne, an
Energy Department research center managed by the  University
of Chicago , birthplace of the nuclear industry.  Edano, the chief cabinet secretary, said radiation above
government limits was found in milk and spinach produced near
the plant struck by the earthquake, Japan’s strongest on
record. Japan’s Health Ministry asked residents of the town
of Iitate in Fukushima prefecture to refrain from drinking
tap water because of radioactive iodine,  Kyodo News  reported.  People living within 30 kilometers of the plant should
wear masks and long sleeves and stay out of the rain, Japan’s
nuclear safety agency said.  Residents in an adjacent region that covers an area
equivalent in size to  Los Angeles  were evacuated in the first
few days after the disaster.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Yoshiaki Nohara} in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
{Tsuyoshi Inajima} in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  