-- 
Kan Asks Political Opposition Chief to Join His Cabinet; LDP Rejects Idea

-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-03-19T19:45:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/kan-asks-political-opposition-chief-to-join-his-cabinet-ldp-rejects-idea.html
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  invited
the head of the largest opposition party to join his cabinet as
the government stepped up efforts to build political support for
its battle to contain the nation’s deepest postwar crisis.  Sadakazu Tanigaki, who heads the Liberal  Democratic Party ,
told reporters yesterday in Tokyo that Kan had called him to
propose he become vice prime minister for earthquake
reconstruction, an idea rejected by the LDP’s leadership. Kan
also met yesterday with former leaders of his ruling party.  Kan is asking other parties for cooperation, rather than a
coalition,  Yukio Hatoyama , Kan’s predecessor as premier, told
reporters in Tokyo yesterday after meeting with him.  Ichiro Ozawa , whom Kan defeated last year for leadership of the
Democratic Party of Japan, and  Seiji Maehara , who resigned as
foreign minister this month, also attended the Cabinet Office
gathering.  The ruling DPJ failed to break an impasse in parliament
before the March 11 earthquake when the opposition refused to
approve legislation needed to let the government sell deficit-
financing bonds. On the morning of the 11th, Kan, 64, had sought
to head off calls for his resignation as he became engulfed in
political-donation turmoil.  “It seems likely that the disaster will break the gridlock
in parliament over the issue of the financing bill, which is
near-term positive,”  Andrew Colquhoun , the Hong Kong-based head
of Asia-Pacific sovereigns at  Fitch Ratings , said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television last week.  LDP Opposed  The  Liberal Democratic Party , which ruled Japan for almost
all of the postwar period until the DPJ unseated it in 2009, has
pledged cooperation on a stimulus package to help rebuild from
Japan’s record earthquake.  Tanigaki said that he told Kan “it’s not time for changing
the cabinet members, you should devote yourself to help refugees
and manage the reactors issues.”  Shu Watanabe, vice-chairman of the DPJ’s counter-disaster
council, had earlier today indicated the government wanted LDP
members to join it.  “We proposed to the opposition to form a cabinet for
saving this country -- this is a way of saying, let’s put aside
political differences and put all our efforts into
rehabilitation and reconstruction,” Watanabe said in a panel
discussion on TBS television yesterday.  In one sign of prospects for cooperation, the DPJ last week
signaled it may ditch campaign promises in order to secure funds
for earthquake reconstruction efforts.  Debt Burden  “We must secure funds to deal with this massive
disaster,”  Katsuya Okada , secretary general of the Democratic
Party of Japan, told reporters on March 15 in  Tokyo . “We have
to decisively” review spending plans including campaign
promises such as childcare handouts and toll-free highways, he
said.  Japan’s record debt burden limits its capacity to increase
borrowing without further endangering its sovereign-debt rating
and leading to higher funding costs. Public debt is about twice
the size of gross domestic product.  Japan’s rating outlook was lowered to negative from stable
by Moody’s Investors Service Feb. 22 on concern that political
gridlock would constrain efforts to tackle the debt burden. The
ranking is Aa2, the company’s third highest.  Standard & Poor’s 
cut its grade in January to fourth highest.  For now, bonds have rallied as investors sought a haven
with a slump in equities after the earthquake, which killed
thousands and crippled a nuclear power plant, spurring the
danger of spreading radiation.  New Political Landscape  Japanese  government bonds  posted the biggest weekly gain in
five months March 18. The benchmark 10-year yield retreated six
basis points since March 11 to 1.21 percent at  Japan  Bond
Trading Co. The yield spread with 40-year debt widened to the
most in three years on speculation the government will increase
debt issuance to finance rebuilding.  The disaster has changed the political landscape since Kan
on the morning of the temblor faced a battle to remain in
office. He told lawmakers that day he “had no idea” a
political contributor to his office wasn’t a Japanese citizen,
violating campaign rules.  The Asahi newspaper reported Kan received 1.04 million yen
($12,900) from a South Korean resident. A similar charge
prompted Maehara, who was the most favored person to become
prime minister in a Sankei newspaper survey published March 1,
to resign March 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  