-- 
Air France Crash Victims to Be Recovered for ID

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-05-18T17:40:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/air-france-crash-victims-to-be-recovered-for-id.html
Bodies found in the wreckage of Air
 France  Flight 447 can still be identified almost two years after
the Airbus SAS jetliner crashed into the Atlantic and will be
recovered where possible, Paris police said today.  Laboratory tests extracted viable DNA in tissue samples
taken from two of about 50 bodies discovered last month within
the wreck of the A330, police said in an e-mailed statement.  “The lab has been able to extract DNA for the purposes of
establishing a profile,” the statement said. “This confirms
the possibility of identification.”  All 228 people aboard the Air France flight from  Rio de
Janeiro  to Paris were killed when it plunged into the Atlantic
on June 1, 2009. The remains of 51 passengers and crew were
recovered by search vessels in the weeks after the disaster.  Today’s results clear the way for operations to retrieve
all remains that can be brought to the surface intact, the
police statement said. The DNA from the two recovered bodies has
not yet been profiled and identified, it said.  The question of whether to recover victims’ bodies has led
to divisions among their families. Some relatives have pressed
for all corpses to be retrieved, while others have said they
would prefer them to be left undisturbed.  Deputy Paris Prosecutor Jean Quintard said May 12 that
recovery would be attempted only if identification was possible.
The bodies are in a fragile state after immersion for almost two
years at a depth of 3,900 meters (12,800 feet), he added.  Black Boxes  An initial examination of the black-box flight recorders,
returned to Paris from the crash site this month, has so far
revealed no new technical issues with the A330, according to
Airbus. In a May 16 advisory to airlines, approved by France’s
BEA accident investigation bureau, the company said the analysis
suggests no immediate changes to equipment or procedures.  Flight 447’s last automated transmissions, sent minutes
before the crash, logged faulty readings from airspeed sensors
that caused the autopilot to shut down in bad weather, a
situation pilots are trained to cope with. The sensors, made by
 Thales SA (HO) , have since been removed from global airline fleets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  