-- 
‘Hard Calls’ Required of Obama After UN Vote to Rein In Libya’s Qaddafi

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-03-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/obama-must-make-hard-calls-after-un-vote-to-stop-qaddafi.html
President  Barack Obama ’s push for a
United Nations resolution authorizing military action to stop  Muammar Qaddafi  leaves the president responsible for the outcome
in Libya and the challenge of preparing Americans for U.S.
involvement, analysts said.  Even if the U.S. and its allies stop Qaddafi’s forces from
attacking rebels and civilians, the Libyan leader may remain in
power for months and potentially weaken the international
coalition, undercutting Obama’s position, said Peter Feaver, who
served on the National Security Council under Presidents  Bill Clinton  and  George W. Bush .  Qaddafi “is not without options, so this could go on for a
while” and have a “pernicious effect on Obama’s position,”
said Feaver, now a political science professor at  Duke
University  in Durham,  North Carolina .  Qaddafi may halt advances on the rebels and instead
“consolidate territory he has now” in the western parts of the
country, Feaver said. He may “manipulate the refugee-
humanitarian problem,” Feaver said, and in such situations “it
will take months and months to really bring him to his knees.”  Obama said yesterday that Qaddafi “has a choice” of
implementing a cease-fire or contending with an international
coalition enforcing a no-fly zone. In a statement at the White
House, he said the U.S. won’t deploy ground troops in Libya,
which holds the largest proven oil reserves in  Africa .  European and Arab nations would take the lead in the skies
over  Libya , Obama said.  Not ‘Acting Alone’  “American leadership is essential, but that does not mean
acting alone, he said. The U.S. will provide its ‘‘unique
capabilities’’ to the coalition, ‘‘including enabling our
European allies and Arab partners to effectively enforce a no-
fly zone.’’  ‘‘Our British and French allies and members of the Arab
League have already committed to take a leadership role in the
enforcement of this resolution,’’ the president said.  The goal of the international action is to protect Libyan
civilians, Obama said.  ‘‘Left unchecked, we have every reason to believe that
Qaddafi would commit atrocities against his people,’’ he said.  The president must win congressional backing for U.S.
military intervention and also prepare for the possibility that
the first round of military action to enforce a no-fly zone may
fail to dislodge the Libyan leader, leaving Obama with an
escalating crisis in yet another Islamic country, said  Anthony Cordesman , a senior defense analyst at the  Center for Strategic
and International Studies  in Washington.  ‘Vast Uncertainties’  ‘‘You’re dealing with vast uncertainties,’’ Cordesman said.
If the no-fly zone fails, he asked, ‘‘How far are you willing to
escalate? At the end of it, the president’s going to have to
make some extremely hard calls under very tight deadlines.’’  Before his remarks yesterday, Obama conferred with a
bipartisan group of 18 lawmakers, including Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , Democrat of  Nevada , and House Speaker  John Boehner , Republican of  Ohio , along with key members of Senate
and House committees dealing with defense, intelligence and
foreign policy.  ‘‘We need to see results and not just rhetoric’’ from
Qaddafi about a cease-fire, Senator  John Kerry , a Massachusetts
Democrat and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
said in a statement. ‘‘President Obama’s stern ultimatum to
Qaddafi is the right message. There must be a full cessation of
hostilities immediately.’’  ‘Robust Action’  If Qaddafi fails to stop the violence, ‘‘we must be
prepared to take robust action with our NATO partners and the  Arab League  to enforce it,’’ said Kerry, who first called for a
no-fly zone in a March 2 congressional hearing.    Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican who sits on the
Senate Armed Services Committee, said in a statement on his
Facebook page that ‘‘it is imperative’’ the UN resolution
calling for military action to stop the violence in Libya ‘‘be
implemented immediately.’’  Obama didn’t explicitly call yesterday for Qaddafi to
leave, as he did on March 3. That may be because ‘‘the
administration wants to give the impression that the end goals
of the U.S. policy are still unfolding and they’ve not been
decided,”  Cliff Kupchan , a senior analyst at  Eurasia Group , a
New York political-risk consulting firm, said in a phone
interview.  ‘9-Millimeter Solution’  The rosiest outcome would be if Qaddafi collapses and “if
one of his own team decides to take him out,” Feaver said,
calling this “the 9-millimeter solution,” in reference to a
9mm handgun. That may not happen, however, and “I expect it to
be much messier,” he said.  Libya may end up in a stalemate with Qaddafi and his forces
controlling some territory, and then Obama may have to engage in
a “slow, agonizing diplomatic siege or encourage rebels to go
on the offensive,” said  Jeffrey White , a defense policy analyst
at the  Washington Institute for Near East Policy . Then it
becomes a “matter of resolve” on the part of people who pushed
for Qaddafi to go, he said.  If Qaddafi remains for a long period of time, rebels and
opposition leaders may face retribution, White said, and
removing Qaddafi may require ground troops, which the UN
resolution prohibits.  Cease-Fire  A day after the UN vote, Libyan Foreign Minister Moussa Koussa said the country’s forces had declared a cease-fire.
European Union’s foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton said the
claim must be examined “very carefully.”  Libya’s cease-fire announcement led to gasoline prices
slipping, and futures traded in a 7.5-cent-per-gallon range.  Though Obama was slow to back international cooperation to
enforce a no-fly zone over Libya, “he’s finally doing the right
thing,” Kupchan said. “This intervention could have reduced
Qaddafi’s control over the country if it were done weeks ago.”  Obama’s delay in favoring military action was because “he
pondered this very thoroughly and was waiting for the moment
when he could get something through the UN Security Council,”
said  Jan Techau , director of the  Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace  in Brussels and a former analyst at the NATO
Defense College in  Rome  and the German Defense Ministry.  “Once Obama realized that the costs of not intervening
would be higher than intervening, he came around very quickly,”
Techau said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  