-- 
Obama Says Latin America Visit Will Help to Boost U.S. Economic Recovery

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-03-19T10:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/obama-says-latin-america-trip-will-help-boost-u-s-recovery.html
President  Barack Obama  said a main
objective of his trip to Latin America will be to forge even
stronger economic partnerships in the region in order to create
jobs in the U.S.  Obama began his  weekly address  on the radio and Internet by
reaffirming his earlier statements that the U.S. will work with
international partners to protect Libyan civilians and “hold
the Qaddafi regime accountable.” He also repeated his pledge to
“stand with the people of  Japan  in their greatest hour of
need” as they recover from the aftereffects of the March 11
earthquake and tsunami.  Obama said that even “as we respond to these immediate
crises abroad, we also will not let up in our efforts to tackle
the pressing, ongoing challenges facing our country, including
accelerating economic growth.”  The president left yesterday for a five-day trip to  Brazil ,  Chile  and  El Salvador  that will focus on his goal to double U.S.
exports by 2015.  Obama said he wants U.S. companies to take advantage of
Latin America’s growing economy. For every $1 billion worth of
goods and services the U.S. exports, he said, more than 5,000
U.S. jobs are supported.  He said that Brazil imports more goods from the U.S. than
from any other country in the world. In 2010, U.S. exports to
Brazil supported more than 250,000 U.S. jobs, he said. The
president will be meeting with Brazilian and U.S. business
leaders during the trip to try to find ways to increase trade.  Jobs Through Trade  Obama said companies like Chatsworth, California-based  Capstone Turbine Corp. (CPST)  -- which he said recently sold $2 million
worth of equipment to Brazil -- are examples of ways the economy
can be strengthened through increased trade. He said larger
companies also benefit from trade with Brazil, citing  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s sales of Sikorsky helicopters that help
support workers at plants in  Connecticut ,  Alabama  and  Pennsylvania . U.S. exports to Chile have also grown, surging 300
percent since 2004 and supporting 70,000 U.S. jobs, he said.  The Obama administration plans to revise trade agreements
with Colombia and  Panama  this year and submit them for approval
to Congress.  “In an increasingly global economy, our partnership with
these nations is only going to become more vital,” he said.
“For it’s a source of growth and prosperity -- and not just for
the people of Latin America, but for the American people as
well.”  Republican Address  In the  Republican address , Representative Jaime Herrera Beutler of  Washington  state said that “if we want to get our
economy back to creating jobs, we can’t duck our responsibility
to rein in spending.”  Herrera Beutler, who was part of the Republican wave of
victories in November that gave the party the majority in the  House of Representatives  this year, said Republican lawmakers
have reduced spending by $10 billion over five weeks through
short-term funding measures. On March 17, Congress passed a
stopgap measure to fund the government through April 8 as
lawmakers seek agreement on a final budget for the 2011 fiscal
year, which ends Sept. 30.  Congress is moving closer to confrontations that may force
the issue of dealing with entitlement programs, such as Social
Security and Medicare. A bipartisan majority of the  U.S. Senate 
sent Obama a letter yesterday asking him to lead a broad effort
to slash the nation’s debt through spending cuts and tax
increases as part of negotiations on this year’s budget.  ‘Debt Crisis’  Herrera Beutler, who sits on the House Small Business
Committee, said “failing to address the explosive growth of
autopilot spending means failing to address our debt crisis.”
She criticized Democrats for not passing a budget for fiscal
year 2011 and said the Senate must work with the House to pass a
long-term budget bill.  “Instead of offering a credible long-term plan, the
president has stayed on the sidelines,” she said.  Herrera Beutler, who is in her first term, said she thinks
of her job as a “tale of two Washingtons.” She said her
constituents in Washington state work hard and are “scraping to
save more than they spend as they cope with double-digit
unemployment,” while politicians in Washington, D.C., are
stifling Republican efforts to cut the deficit and create jobs.  “I was sent here to get this Washington, with all its
overspending and overregulation, out of the way, so the country
we know and love can thrive and prosper,” she said.  Herrera Beutler said  House Republicans  are working to block
added regulations by voting to repeal parts of Obama’s health-
care law that would harm small businesses. They will work to
block regulations by the  Environmental Protection Agency  that,
she said, would raise  gas prices .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  