-- 
Obama Gets Warm Brazil Embrace From Lula Successor Rousseff

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-03-19T17:15:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/obama-in-brazil-gets-warmer-embrace-from-lula-successor-rousseff.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff ’s efforts to distance herself from her predecessor give
President Barack Obama an opportunity to deepen ties with
Latin’s America’s biggest economy in a visit that starts today.  Rousseff won election last year pledging to continue the
work of her popular mentor, President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva .
Since taking office three months ago, her moves to rein in
spending, take a tougher stance on  China ’s controlled currency
and end Lula’s friendly relations with Iran have surprised both
friends and foes.  Her shared sense with Obama that China is harming the
economic interests of both their countries by undervaluing the
yuan creates an opening for the U.S. leader, who arrived for two
days of meetings with  Brazil ’s first female president and
sightseeing in Rio de Janeiro with his wife, Michelle, and two
daughters, Malia and Sasha.  “For her, Lula is a tall act to follow,” said Jim O’Neill, the London-based chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management, who coined the term BRIC to describe the large,
fast-growing emerging markets of Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and
China. “But it’s important for Obama to understand her; she’s a
different person and has a different style.”  ‘Historic Opportunity’  Obama, speaking alongside Rousseff in Brasilia, said he
chose Brazil to kick off his first-ever visit to South America
in recognition of the country’s economic ascendancy. Obama said
Brazil is increasingly a global leader and the two countries
have a “historic opportunity” to deepen cooperation for
decades to come.  “The  United States  doesn’t simply recognize Brazil’s rise,
we support it enthusiastically,” Obama told reporters alongside
Rousseff after a meeting at the presidential palace in Brasilia.  Prior to the trip the Obama administration said both
leaders would take questions by journalists. Those plans were
scrapped at the insistence of Brazil, said a U.S. administration
official.  While both of Obama’s immediate predecessors also visited
Brazil, his decision to meet Rousseff so early in her presidency
reflects the country’s growing clout. Its $2.2 trillion economy
grew 7.5 percent last year, the fastest pace in more than two
decades. Brazil is now the fourth-biggest U.S. creditor, holding
$198 billion in Treasuries, and one of four Group of 20 members
with whom the U.S. had a trade surplus last year.  ‘Time to Engage’  Brazil’s Bovespa stock index slipped 3.5 percent this year,
compared with a 1.7 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index of stocks in the U.S.  “It’s time to engage because it’s a 200-million-people
economy with all the things going right,”  Eike Batista ,
Brazil’s richest man, said in a March 14 interview at
Bloomberg’s New York headquarters. His Rio de Janeiro-based EBX
Group Ltd. controls companies in businesses ranging from oil to
iron-ore mining.  The two leaders must make up a lot of ground to improve
ties. Relations reached a nadir last year when Lula, pushed by
anti-American elements of his and Rousseff’s Workers’ Party,
voted against tighter United Nations sanctions on  Iran ’s nuclear
program. Obama said in his 2010 State of the Union Address that
Iran has violated international agreements in pursuit of nuclear
weapons. Lula also embraced Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez,
who is  Washington ’s fiercest critic in the region.  ‘Currency War’  Guido Mantega, Lula’s finance minister, who continues under
Rousseff, blamed the U.S. last year for a “currency war” that
has fueled a 36 percent rally by the real the past two years.
The U.S. has also rebuffed calls to eliminate barriers for
Brazil’s farm exports, including sugar-based ethanol.  Rousseff, 63, has said she admires the 49-year-old Obama
and has compared her victory to Obama’s historic election as
America’s first black president. She’s said she wants to forge
closer ties with the U.S. by helping Brazilian engineers study
in the U.S., exchange technology and promote development
together in  Africa .  A former student activist who was tortured while jailed by
Brazil’s 1964-1985 military dictatorship, Rousseff criticized
Iran’s human-rights record after Lula hosted Iranian President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in 2009 and visited Tehran in 2010.  She also postponed a decision to purchase 36 fighter jets,
breathing new life into a bid by Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)  after
Lula said he favored awarding the contract, valued at as much as
$7 billion, to Paris-based  Dassault Aviation SA. (AM)   Shared Concern  Obama and Rousseff’s biggest shared concern may be China,
which surpassed the U.S. as Brazil’s biggest trading partner in
2009. Brazil considers China’s dollar peg a “priority,” Trade
Minister Fernando Pimentel said two days after Rousseff’s
government took office. The real has strengthened 33 percent
against the yuan since the start of 2009, more than all 24
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, hurting
manufacturers that compete with Chinese-made goods.  “There is increased recognition, as trade with China has
grown, that it’s not only a cooperative relationship but also a
competitive one,” said Albert Fishlow, a former deputy U.S.
assistant secretary of state who has written a book on Brazil
that was published this month. “There is clearly a degree of
similarity in the U.S. and Brazilian positions.”  Chinese Windfall  China’s demand for Brazil’s iron ore and soy beans has been
a windfall for Brazil. Trade with China jumped 53 percent to $56
billion last year, compared with $45 billion for the U.S., which
can tap into Rousseff’s desire to expand beyond commodity
exports.  “Brazil isn’t going to tag-team with the United States and
gang up on China,” said  Christopher Garman , director for Latin
America at Eurasia Group, a Washington-based political risk
group. “But I think it’s going to be a more nuanced and
balanced relationship.”  When Rousseff met with Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner in Brasilia last month, she described Brazil as a
Western country that shares a common set of values and interests
with the U.S. and wants to increase cooperation, according to an
Obama administration official who spoke on condition of
anonymity.  ‘Take Advantage’  Geithner, who is returning with Obama and four other
members of his cabinet, said the U.S. wants to “take advantage
of this moment” to improve cooperation within the G-20. The
delegation will be joined in Brasilia by the heads of Atlanta-
based  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and Motorola Solutions Inc. of Schaumburg,  Illinois .  They are among 10 business leaders seeking to profit from
Brazil’s recent oil discoveries, the largest in the Americas
since 1976, and $200 billion in road, airport and hotel
improvements needed before the 2014  World Cup  and 2016 summer
Olympics.  There are limits to closer ties. Brazil this week abstained
from the UN Security Council decision to authorize air strikes
against  Libya , saying it was concerned they could exacerbate
tensions in the country and the Middle East.  Obama expressed appreciation for Brazil’s aspiration to
become a permanent member of the council, though did not endorse
its bid like he did India’s on a trip to New Delhi last year.
Instead, the two leaders agreed the council needs reform and
expressed their support for a modest expansion that improves its
effectiveness and efficiency, as well as its representation.  “It took a very deep economic crisis to overcome
conservative thought that blocked the reform of financial
institution,” Rousseff said. “In the case of UN reform, we
have the opportunity to act preemptively.”  Trade Tensions  Long-standing trade tensions are unlikely to be resolved
during Obama’s visit, said  David Fleischer , an American-born
political analyst at the University of Brasilia. Among them are
U.S. farm subsidies, the 54 cents-per-gallon tariff on imports
of Brazilian ethanol, which Congress renewed in December, and
Brazilian duties on consumer goods such as electronics.  “We want a commercial relationship that is fairer and more
equal,” Rousseff told Obama. “For us it’s fundamental the
removal of barriers to our products” including ethanol, beef
and orange juice, she said.  Rousseff, while recognizing the “great” effort by Obama
to restore American economic growth, took issue with policies
that she said are generating global imbalances.  “Everyone knows that strong measures provoke important
changes in the relationship of currencies throughout the
world,” she said. “This erodes good economic practices and
pushes countries to take protectionist and defensive actions.”  The two presidents signed 10 agreements deepening
cooperation in areas ranging from the development of aviation
biofuels and the promotion of educational exchanges for
scientists and scholars. The two governments also agreed to help
Brazil prepare to host the 2014 World Cup and 2016 Olympics.  “The trip is basically a photo-op in Brazil for Obama,”
Fleischer said. “The main thing coming out of it is that if one
of them wants to call the other up on the phone, they can do it
because they’ve already met in person.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  