-- 
Toyota, Sony Disruptions May Last Weeks on Supplier, Power Supply Damage

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n ,   D a v e   M c C o m b s   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-03-20T00:28:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/toyota-sony-disruptions-may-last-weeks-after-japan-quake-power-shortages.html
  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Sony Corp. (6758) ,
two of Japan’s biggest manufacturers, are facing worst-case
scenarios of long-term production shortfalls as scores of plants
remain closed and workers are idled in the aftermath of the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  “The current situation is still difficult,” Chisato Kitsukawa, a spokesman for Tokyo-based Sony, by phone yesterday.
The company has shut eight plants in Miyagi, Ibaraki and
Fukushima prefectures, and workers are inspecting equipment and
facilities, he said. Toyota has said it will keep 21 auto and
components plants closed until March 22.  Sony and Toyota’s efforts to resume production are
complicated by the need for hundreds of different components to
build TVs and cars from a variety of different suppliers that
may have suffered plant damage in the earthquake and tsunami.  Japan  is also facing electricity shortages because a nuclear-
power plant was crippled by the temblor.  “This will be played out not in days, but in weeks,” said
John Hoffecker, head of the automotive practice at consulting
firm AlixPartners LLP in  Detroit . “Nothing on this scale has
really occurred before.”  Quake, Tsunami  The earthquake and tsunami killed more than 7,000 people
and damaged or destroyed more than 100,000 buildings in the
Tohoku region of northeastern Japan, according to the National
Police Agency of Japan. Workers are also battling to prevent a
nuclear meltdown at a plant north of Tokyo.  Sony and Toyota, based in Toyota City, Japan, have both
fallen 12 percent in  Tokyo  trading since March 10, the last day
of trading before the quake. The Topix Index has dropped 11
percent.  Keisuke Kirimoto, a Toyota spokesman, didn’t immediately
reply to message left on his cellphone yesterday.  For Sony, the most significant damage is to its Tagajo
plant, in Miyagi prefecture, that produces coating materials for
magnetic tapes, touch-panel mobile devices and Blu-ray discs.
Short-term recovery is “very difficult due to flooding caused
by the tsunami,” Sony has said.  The electronics company and its suppliers probably have at
least two weeks of inventory on hand, which offsets disruptions,
said Jordan Selburn, principal analyst for consumer electronics
at IHS iSuppli Corp. The more likely challenges are a shortage
of basic components and power supplies, he said.  ‘Less Glamorous Parts’  “Some of the less glamorous parts that they need to build
their own stuff may be lost to them,” he said. “That’s the
nail keeping the horse, for want of a shoe, from joining the
battle and that leads to losing the kingdom.”  Toyota’s shutdown affects about 95,000 units of production,
of which 60 percent is for shipment to markets, including the
U.S.,  Steve Curtis , a spokesman for the carmaker’s sales unit in
Torrance,  California , said March 17. U.S. inventory levels
remain “normal,” he said then.  Shipments of parts including chemicals, plastics, steel and
other metals, precision ball bearings and electronic components
may be disrupted for weeks, Hoffecker said.  General Motors Co. (GM) ,
the largest U.S. automaker, will suspend car production at
plants in Spain and  Germany  next week because of a lack of
Japanese-made parts.  “An automobile has 5,000 parts,” said  Maryann Keller , an
analyst and principal of a self-titled consulting firm in
Stamford,  Connecticut . “It has to be produced with every single
one of them.”  Nissan, Honda  Nissan Motor Co., Japan’s second-largest carmaker, has
suspended operations at six plants, the Yokohama-based company
said this week. The company has more than 1,500 Leaf electric
vehicles either in transit from Japan or at ports in the U.S.,
the Franklin, Tennessee-based Nissan Americas said in a
statement. Nissan Americas’ manufacturing operations will follow
a normal production schedule until at least March 25.  Honda Motor Co. has closed six factories, including three
car factories and one motorcycle assembly plant that will be
shut until March 23, the company said in a statement. The
automaker, which builds more than 80 percent of its vehicles for
the U.S. market in North American plants, also suspended orders
from U.S. dealers for Japan-built models.  Honda told U.S. Honda and Acura dealers, who typically
order vehicles six weeks in advance, of the plan March 17 in a
memo, Christina Ra and Gary Robinson, U.S. representatives for
the Tokyo-based company, said.  Panasonic, Fujitsu    Panasonic Corp. (6752) , the nation’s biggest maker of batteries,
has closed two plants in the area hit by the quake. It didn’t
have an estimate for when production would resume,  Akira Kadota ,
a spokesman, said by phone.    Fujitsu Ltd. (6702) , the maker of personal computers and home
appliances, has closed 10 plants and it isn’t able to say when
they will reopen, said Etsuro Yamada, a spokesman. Camera-maker  Nikon Corp. (7731)  is yet to decide when it will reopen four plants
shut since the quake.  “We are struggling intensely to resume our operations,”
said Takuya Moriguchi, a spokesman.  Sharp Corp. is operating its Tochigi audiovisual products
plant and several others at reduced hours to conserve power,  Miyuki Nakayama , spokeswoman for the company, said by phone.
Inspections showed no significant damage at plants in the quake
areas, she said.  Hitachi, Japan’s second-largest manufacturer by revenue,
began receiving fuel at some of its plants, said Kenichiro Mizoguchi, a spokesman. Seven of its factories, including
facilities for making elevators, car parts and home appliances,
remain closed. The company’s air-conditioning unit factory in
Tochigi prefecture is operating at reduced hours because of
power shortages.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Dave McCombs in Tokyo at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net ;
Clifford Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 