-- 
Pound Weakens Against Euro For Week on Speculation of Slower Rate Hikes

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-03-19T07:30:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/pound-weakens-against-euro-on-speculation-of-slower-rate-hikes.html
The pound slid against the euro for
a fourth week, the longest run of declines since October, as
investors bet the Bank of England will be slower to raise rates
than its euro-region counterpart.  Implied yields on short-sterling futures dropped after a
report showed U.K. consumer confidence fell to a record low.
Sterling gained versus the dollar and U.K. government debt rose
as  Fitch Ratings  said the U.K. should keep its top  credit
rating , citing government efforts to reduce the budget.  “Over the course of the past month yields have been
heading lower, and you’ve seen the short sterling contracts
creeping steadily higher over the same period,” said  Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist at Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. in London. “As a result, sterling has come under pressure
at the same time. We keep getting pretty mediocre numbers coming
out. I’m thinking in particular of that consumer-confidence
survey. The likelihood is those numbers will continue.”  The pound weakened 1.1 percent in the week to 87.38 pence
per euro as of 4:42 p.m. in  London  yesterday. That’s the biggest
decline this month. Sterling strengthened 0.8 percent against
the dollar.  A gauge of U.K. sentiment dropped to 38 last month, the
lowest since records began in 2004,  Nationwide Building Society 
said. Implied yields on short-sterling futures dropped 11 basis
points in the week as traders scaled back bets the Bank of
England will raise  interest rates .  Inflation Data  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
signaled earlier this month that the bank may raise its key rate
from 1 percent as soon as April.  Data on Tuesday is expected to show U.K. inflation probably
accelerated to the fastest pace since October 2008 in February,
which may sharpen the divide among  Bank of England  policy makers
on whether to raise rates to tame price pressures. The BOE
publishes minutes of its March 9 policy meeting on Wednesday.  Sterling has gained 1.8 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. It trails behind the euro’s 3.9
percent advance, the Swedish krona and Norwegian krone. The
pound has lost 1.9 percent against the 17-nation European
currency since Dec. 31.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond fell 12
basis points to 3.51 percent in the week, with two-year note
yields 10 basis points lower at 1.19 percent.  Gilts made 1.08 percent this month, while German  government
securities  lost 0.05 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes. The FTSE 100 Index of stocks fell 4.3
percent in the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  