-- 
Libya Military Strikes Draw Closer With French Warplanes Over Libyan Skies

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 
2011-03-19T16:29:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/qaddafi-defies-cease-fire-in-benghazi-attacks-as-west-prepares-for-action.html
Warplanes coursed in the sky over  Libya  in preparation for attacks on forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  after the regime scorned international calls for a
cease-fire and assaulted the rebel stronghold of Benghazi.  “Right now our planes are blocking air strikes on the
city” of Benghazi, French President Nicolas Sarkozy told
reporters today. “French planes are ready to act against
armored vehicles that would be threatening unarmed civilians.”  European, U.S. and Arab officials gathered in Paris today
to discuss the situation in Libya and the enforcement of a no-
fly zone. Even as they met, Qaddafi’s forces attacked Benghazi
in defiance of their pledge and international demands for a
cease-fire, television stations reported.  The Libyan revolt is the bloodiest in a wave of popular
uprisings in the Middle East this year that have toppled
Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak . There have also been anti-government
demonstrations in Yemen, Bahrain, Jordan, Syria, Algeria, Iran,
Iraq and Oman, calling for moves toward democracy and action to
improve living standards.  “The time for action has come,” British Prime Minister
David Cameron said. It is “vitally important action takes place,
urgently.”  Unanimous Vote  The United Nations Security Council on March 17 voted to
ground Qaddafi’s air force and to grant military authority to
the U.S. and its allies to protect civilians and population
centers threatened by his forces.  The UN’s principal policy-making panel voted 10-0, with
five abstentions, to adopt a resolution that establishes a no-
fly zone over Libya, demands a cease-fire and allows “all
necessary measures” to protect civilians “excluding a foreign
occupation force of any form on any part of Libyan territory.”    Brazil ,  China ,  Germany ,  India  and  Russia  abstained.  Libya’s crude oil exports may be halted for “many months”
because of damage to facilities and international sanctions, the  International Energy Agency  said March 15. Crude oil for April
delivery slipped 9 cents to $101.07 a barrel this week on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The conflict, which has left
hundreds dead, has sent futures up about 23 percent from a year
ago.  Al-Jazeera cited the head of the rebel council, Mustafa Abdel Jalil, as saying bombing raids took place in Benghazi,
which has about 1 million people. There is no indication that
Qaddafi is following through on his regime’s pledge to observe
UN demands for a cease-fire, a State Department official said.  Arab Leaders  Arab officials attending the Paris summit included Arab
League Secretary-General Amr Moussa, United Arab Emirates
Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al-Nahyan, Iraqi
Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari, Jordanian Foreign Minister
Nasser Judeh,  Morocco ’s Foreign Minister Taieb Fassi Fihri and
Qatar’s Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad Bin Jasim Al Thani,
according to an e-mailed list of the participants.  Qaddafi must “immediately end the acts of violence carried
out against civilians,” according to a joint statement issued
after the meeting in Paris.  “We cannot allow the slaughter to continue,” Cameron
said.  Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  said military operations
may start today.  ‘Without Any Limits’  The French newspaper Le Figaro, citing an unidentified
official, reported that air strikes might start once the Paris
summit is over, with French, U.K., Canadian and Norwegian planes
set to carry out the first attacks.  The U.K is deploying Tornado and BAE Systems Plc
Eurofighter Typhoon jets. Italy’s cabinet approved the use of as
many as seven air bases for the operation. Italy is only
providing bases, not aircraft, for the mission for the moment,
Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi said. The NATO base in Naples
will probably be the main center for coordinated international
action, Berlusconi told reporters in Paris.  Libya has about 30 sites with surface-to-air (SAM)
missiles, linked to 15 early warning radar, that pose a
“significant threat” to foreign warplanes over or near Libyan
airspace, according to information provided by the Pentagon.  Libya has a limited  air force , with about 80 percent of its
aircraft “non-operational.” Libyan pilot training levels and
air combat tactics “have remained far inferior to those of U.S.
pilots and well-trained Middle Eastern pilots,” such as those
from  Egypt  and  Saudi Arabia , according to the Pentagon.  CF-18 Jets  Denmark has committed to sending six Lockheed Martin Corp.
F-16 fighter planes to help back the no-fly zone, Copenhagen-
based newswire Ritzau reported, citing Defense Minister Gitte Lillelund Bech. Canada will deploy six CF-18 fighter jets,
Postmedia News reported, citing people not identified by name.  Qatar plans to take part in the mission to protect Libyan
civilians under the UN resolution, the state-run Qatar News
Agency.  The U.S. sent as many as 1,200 Marines and two Navy
vessels, including the amphibious assault ship  USS Kearsarge , to
the Mediterranean off the Libyan coast, Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said March 1. The U.S. is also monitoring Libyan airspace.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  