-- 
Qaddafi Forces Reported to Attack Benghazi as Allies Meet on No-Fly Zone

-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-03-19T09:28:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/qaddafi-forces-reported-to-attack-benghazi-as-allies-meet-on-no-fly-zone.html
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s
forces attacked the rebel stronghold of Benghazi, television
stations reported, as Western and Arab leaders prepared to meet
to discuss how to implement a no-fly zone to halt the assault.  Pro-Qaddafi forces entered the outskirts of Benghazi, a
city of 1 million people,  Al Jazeera  reported. A BBC
correspondent reported seeing government tanks on a bridge
inside the eastern port city. CNN said Qaddafi forces pushed
back rebels overnight and reported “loud explosions and
smoke.” An aircraft was shot down over Benghazi today,
according to the Associated Press.  Those actions would be in breach of a cease-fire that
Libyan Foreign Minister Moussa Koussa said the regime was
observing yesterday and that is a key demand of the  United
Nations . Government troops yesterday clashed with rebels in the
towns of Sulooq and Maqroon, about 30 miles (50 kilometers)
away, Al Jazeera said.  The UN Security Council authorized the use of air attacks
and a no-fly zone over Libya two days ago to protect civilians
from forces loyal to Qaddafi. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will attend a meeting in Paris today on imposing the no-
fly zone hosted by French President Nicolas Sarkozy along with
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , United Nations Secretary
General Ban Ki-moon and Arab leaders.  Obama’s Demands  President  Barack Obama , speaking at the White House
yesterday, set out the demands he, Cameron and Sarkozy are
imposing on the Libyan regime. Qaddafi must immediately stop
attacks on civilians, halt his advance on Benghazi, and pull
back forces from three embattled cities, Ajdabiya, Misrata, and
Zawiyah, scenes of deadly fighting in the past two weeks.  The Libyan leader must also re-establish water, gasoline
and electricity supplies to all areas, and he must allow aid to
“reach the people of  Libya ,” Obama said.  Former British Prime Minister  Tony Blair  said Qaddafi’s
forces must be stopped.  “If Colonel Qaddafi were allowed to kill large numbers of
Libyans to squash the hope of a different Libya, we shouldn’t be
under any illusion,” Blair wrote in an article in London’s
Times newspaper. “We would send a signal of Western impotence
in an area that analyzes such signals keenly. We would dismay
those agitating for freedom, boosting opposition factions
hostile to us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  