-- 
Radiation at Safe Levels in Tokyo Water; Some Foods Testing Above Limits

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r ,   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   T a k   K u m a k u r a
-- 
2011-03-19T15:08:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/radiation-found-in-milk-spinach-from-near-japan-nuclear-plant.html
Small amounts of radiation were
detected in  Tokyo ’s water supply and above-limits radiation was
found in milk and spinach from areas near Japan’s damaged
nuclear plant, the government said in its first acknowledgement
the disaster may have contaminated the  food supply .  “This is not at the level that would have any direct
effect on your health,” Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano
said at a news briefing in Tokyo yesterday. Eating the spinach
for one year would be equivalent to 20 percent of the radiation
exposure associated with a CT scan, he said.  Engineers have been attempting to contain overheating of
the nuclear reactors at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, damaged by
Japan’s strongest earthquake, and prevent a meltdown and the
further spread of radiation.  South Korea ,  Indonesia , Thailand
and  Singapore  have started screening food imports from Japan.  Samples of tap water taken March 18 in Tokyo and five
nearby prefectures showed traces of radiation that were within
acceptable levels, the Japanese government said. The prefectures
include Tochigi, Gunma, Saitama, Chiba and Niigata, Japan’s
Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology
said yesterday in a faxed statement.  The milk is from Fukushima prefecture and the spinach from
neighboring Ibaraki prefecture, Edano said.  Ecosystem Affected  The government didn’t say how the milk and spinach became
contaminated, making it difficult to assess the risks, Lam
Ching-wan, a chemical pathologist at the University of Hong Kong
School of Medicine, said by telephone.  “They should seriously think about restricting any
agricultural products in that area,” he said. “It seems that
the whole ecosystem could be affected, so they shouldn’t take
any chances.”  One millisievert, a measure of radioactivity levels, in a
liter of milk consumed by a six-year-old child would increase
the risk of cancer by 0.017 percent, Lam said. A full-body CT
scan would produce exposure of 12 millisieverts, according to
the  World Health Organization .  Japan will check the source of contaminated milk and
spinach and will recall the products that show higher than
standard radiation levels,  Kyodo News  said, citing Kohei
Ohtsuka, vice minister of the Ministry of Health, Labor and
Welfare.  People living within 30 kilometers (19 miles) of the
Fukushima plant should wear masks and long sleeves and stay out
of the rain, Japan’s nuclear safety agency said yesterday.  Food Tests  Officials in Japan’s 47 prefectures have been asked to test
agricultural products, seafood and drinking water for possible
contamination to prevent tainted grains, milk, vegetables, meat
and eggs from being consumed, Kumiko Tanaka, an official at the
Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, said March 18.  Ibaraki also produces cucumbers, tomatoes, onions,
strawberries and pears. Fukushima produces cucumbers, tomatoes
and string beans.  Japan exported 481 billion yen ($6 billion) worth of food
last year, accounting for 0.7 percent of total exports,
according to data on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture,
Forestry and Fisheries. In 2009, more than 70 percent of Japan’s
food exports went to  Hong Kong , the U.S.,  China ,  Taiwan  and
South Korea, according to the Japan External Trade Organization.  “No doubt people will be afraid of anything coming from
Japan,”  David Cohen , head of Asian forecasting for Action
Economics in Singapore, said by phone. “It’s still more of a
question of fear rather than any elevated radiation levels so
far.”  Chernobyl Measures  South Korea plans to strengthen radioactivity tests on
livestock and seafood from Japan, the Ministry for Food,
Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries said March 15 in an e-mailed
statement. South Korea imported 527 metric tons of livestock
products, mostly dairy, and 84,018 tons of seafood from Japan
last year, it said.  “We will use the same measures that we used during
Chernobyl in 1986,” Pipat Yingseree, secretary-general of  Thailand ’s  Food and Drug Administration , said March 15 in
Bangkok. “If it becomes clear that there is radioactive
contamination, we will ask for cooperation from operators to
delay food imports from Japan, and we will implement serious
checks by seizing all products and inspecting all of them.”  Sushi restaurants and hotels, including Shangri-La Asia
Ltd.’s luxury chain and  London ’s Zuma and Roka Japanese
restaurants have stopped buying fresh produce from Japan over
fears of possible contamination. The Hong Kong government has
been testing radiation levels on all food imported from Japan
since March 12.  California Screening  California officials will screen milk produced in the state
for signs of radiation contamination transmitted by grass-eating
cows, said Howard Backer, interim director of the California
Department of  Public Health .  California authorities are reassuring residents that any
radiation drifting across the  Pacific Ocean  from  Japan ’s
earthquake-damaged nuclear reactors would not pose any health
threat. Officials are monitoring radiation levels and had not
detected any rise as of March 17, Backer said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Frederik Balfour at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  