-- 
Radiation Detectors in High Demand as Worry of Nuclear Fallout Spreads

-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 
2011-03-19T00:09:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/radiation-detectors-in-high-demand-as-worry-of-nuclear-fallout-spreads.html
Demand for radiation detection
equipment made by  Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (TMO) ,  Danaher Corp. (DHR) ,
and Mirion Technologies Inc. has jumped in the aftermath of the
Japanese tsunami and nuclear emergency.  The demand is driven mostly by the need to monitor exposure
of relief teams responding to the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami. Sales also are coming from companies who want to check
the safety of employees based in Japan and individuals who worry
they may become exposed to radiation from explosions and leaks
at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.  Products range from  San Ramon , California-based Mirion
Technologies’ $175  Instadose , a device the size of a computer
flash drive, to Thermo Fisher’s $30,000 gamma neutron backpack.
Some companies that make detectors are asking employees to work
extra shifts and put in long hours.  “There’s a lot of anxiety right now,” said Adam Grose,
vice president and general manager of radiation measurement and
security for  Thermo Fisher , the world’s largest maker of
laboratory instruments, based in Waltham,  Massachusetts .  Thermo Fisher makes high-end devices primarily used by
professionals in the medical imaging and nuclear power
industries, and supplies material used in lower-cost devices
marketed by partner companies. As news about the crippled
reactors began to emerge, the company and its partners were
getting three to four times the normal number of calls from
customers, Grose said yesterday in a telephone interview.  ‘Significant Increase’  “We’ve seen a significant increase in demand for radiation
survey meters in Japan and throughout the world, including the  United States , since the emergency began,” Barbara Hulit,
president of Washington-based Danaher’s Fluke Corp. unit, said
in an e-mail. “Most of this new demand is coming from emergency
response and radiation safety professionals.”  Monitors set up in the U.S. by the Environmental Protection
Agency and the  Department of Energy  have found no radiation
levels of concern, the agencies said yesterday in a statement. A
station in  Sacramento ,  California , detected “miniscule
quantities” of the isotope xenon-133 yesterday whose origin was
“consistent” with a release from the Fukushima reactors. The
dose “poses no concern at the detected level,” the agencies
said in the statement.  SE International , a closely held maker of radiation
detection equipment, has more than doubled its normal output of
about 200 detectors a week, said Corey Walker, director of
marketing for the Summertown, Tennessee-based company. SE’s six
production employees are working overtime and a furloughed
employee was brought back to work, she said.  ‘Panic Mode’  “The consumer -- they’re in a little bit of a panic mode
right now,” Walker said. “They hear radiation and they’re
scared.”  Thomas Logan, chief executive officer of Mirion
Technologies, said that while his company is getting more calls
from “concerned citizens” who are worried they may become
exposed to radiation, he hasn’t seen evidence of panic.  At least a dozen companies advertising radiation detection
equipment can be found on the Internet and some of them now find
themselves unable to meet the demand.  “Due to the crisis in  Japan  and overwhelming request for
our radiation survey meters, we are currently not taking any new
individual retail orders,” says a banner that pops up on  SE
International’s  website.  Arrow Tech Inc.,  a Rolla, North Dakota-based closely held
company that makes dosimeters for personal radiation
measurement, is getting 10 to 20 times its normal demand, said
Brian Carlson, the company’s radiation safety officer.  ‘Pretty Worried’  “We’ve sold to Japan, we’ve sold to individuals in the
U.S. we’ve sold to people traveling to the Pacific,” he said.
“Everyone’s pretty worried about radiation.”  Walker at SE International said she and her colleagues were
trying to calm panicked callers by providing them with basic
information about radiation threats and safety. She said she
tells callers from the U.S. not to worry too much about
radiation from Japan and that they probably don’t need a
detector for that purpose.  If they insist, however, “I would recommend the Monitor
4.”  The company’s flagship product sells for $325 and “it’s
easy to use,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Rob Waters  in  San Francisco  at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 