-- 
Treasuries Advance on Concern Over Japan’s Radiation Leak, Libyan Turmoil

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-03-19T04:00:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/treasuries-advance-on-concern-over-japan-s-radiation-leak-libyan-turmoil.html
Treasuries gained, with the 10-year
note yield touching the lowest level this year, as Japan’s
nuclear crisis and Libyan political turmoil encouraged demand
for the safety of  U.S. government debt .  Yields on two-year notes dropped for a fifth week in the
longest stretch of decreases since August as a surge in the yen
following Japan’s earthquake led Group of Seven nations to
intervene in  currency markets . The  Federal Reserve  said the U.S.
recovery is gaining strength before a report next week forecast
to show the economy expanded faster than earlier estimated.  “The flight to quality is intact,” said  William Larkin , a
fixed-income portfolio manager in Salem,  Massachusetts , at Cabot
Money Management, which manages $500 million. “People are going
to want the extra security. Because of the currency
intervention, people may avoid the yen and may want to buy
Treasuries.”  The yield on the two-year note dropped six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 0.59 percent this week in  New York ,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 0.625
percent security maturing in February 2013 increased 3/32, or 94
cents per 1,000 face amount, to 100 2/32.  The benchmark 10-year note yield fell 14 basis points to
3.27 percent in the biggest weekly slide since decreasing 17
basis points in the five days ended Feb. 25. The yield touched
3.14 percent on March 17, the lowest level since Dec. 8. The 30-
year bond yield dropped 13 basis points to 4.42 percent.    Libya  Turmoil  Yields fluctuated yesterday after Libya said it will start
talks with the opposition and as the Fed joined other central
banks in selling the yen following a surge to a record that
threatened  Japan ’s exporters.  The yen declined yesterday the most in more than two years
against the dollar after rallying on March 17 to 76.25, the
strongest level since World War II. Japan’s currency had gained
before the intervention on speculation insurers and investors
would sell foreign assets and repatriate funds to help pay for
damage from the earthquake.  Japan’s holdings of U.S. government debt rose for an eighth
straight month to $885.9 billion in January in the longest
period of increase since a 22-month span ending August 2004, the
Treasury Department reported this week. The country is the
second-largest foreign lender to the U.S. after  China , whose
holdings fell for a third month to $1.15 trillion.  G-7 Intervention  The  Bank of Japan  began the G-7 intervention effort
yesterday, with  Europe ’s central banks, the Fed and the  Bank of
Canada  following as trading in their markets began.  Libya declared a cease-fire yesterday after a UN vote
cleared the way for strikes against Muammar Qaddafi’s regime.
Libyan Foreign Minister Moussa Koussa made the announcement in a
televised news conference carried by Al Arabiya TV yesterday,
adding that the resolution authorizing a no-fly zone violates
the UN’s charter.  Forces loyal to Qaddafi shelled the city of Misrata even
after the cease-fire announcement, Al Jazeera television
reported, citing witnesses.  Treasury yields rose on March 17 after evidence the U.S.
economic recovery is gaining momentum. Manufacturing in the
Philadelphia region expanded this month at the fastest pace
since 1984, consumer prices increased in February more than
forecast, and initial jobless claims fell last week.  Global Uncertainty  “Domestically, we’re doing quite well relatively, but it’s
lost with what’s going on in Japan and the Middle East,” said
Thomas Simons, a government debt economist in New York at
Jefferies Group Inc., one of 20 primary dealers that trade with
the Fed. “We’ll probably hold in here or go lower in yields
because of tremendous uncertainty on the global landscape. This
offers further support for Treasuries.”  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt known as the
break-even rate, was 2.44 percentage points after narrowing to
2.33, the least since Feb. 18.  The U.S. government will sell $11 billion in 10-year
inflation-indexed notes on March 24, the Treasury Department
announced this week.  The Fed said following its March 15 meeting that
“conditions in the labor market appear to be improving
gradually” and higher energy prices will have a temporary
effect while reaffirming its plan to buy $600 billion of
Treasuries through June to keep borrowing costs low  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 3 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter, according to the median forecast of 64
economists in a Bloomberg News survey before the Commerce
Department’s report on March 25. The government reported last
month a 2.8 percent pace of expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  