-- 
Sony’s Stringer Says Quake Recovery Effort May Jump-Start Japanese Economy

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-03-20T08:40:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/sony-s-stringer-says-crisis-may-jump-start-japanese-economy.html
  Sony Corp. (6758)  Chairman Howard Stringer
said that Japanese recovery efforts after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami may jump-start the country’s lagging
economy as the country uses savings to rebuild.  “They’ll have to spend the money on rebuilding and
restructuring,” Stringer said from New York on  CNN ’s “Fareed
Zakaria GPS” program, according to a transcript of the
interview. “So that might also generate some energy in the
economy.”  Sony and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  are among the scores of
Japanese companies forced to halt some operations after the
earthquake and ensuing tsunami that hit Japan and claimed more
than 8,000 lives. Japanese manufacturers are also facing power
outages, disruptions in the supply chain and a strong yen that’s
undermining the competitiveness of exports.  Shares of Sony and Toyota, based in Toyota City,  Japan ,
have both fallen 12 percent since the end of trading March 10,
the last day of trading before the earthquake. The Topix Index
has dropped 11 percent.  Sony, Japan’s largest exporter of consumer electronics, is
planning to resume partial operations at a plant that makes
rechargeable batteries in Tochigi prefecture, northern Japan,
from March 22, Hiroshi Okubo, a Tokyo-based spokesman, said by
phone today. The plant would be Sony’s third to resume
operations since the 9.0-magnitude earthquake resulted in the
electronics maker halting 10 factories.  No End in Sight  The company may restart a DVD-manufacturing plant in
Ibaraki prefecture within a week, Okubo said.  A factory that makes magnetic tapes and Blu-ray discs
suffered the most damage among the company’s facilities, Okubo
said. The plant, located in Tagajo City, Miyagi, where more than
6,000 people live in evacuation centers, isn’t receiving any
power and is partially covered with rubble and mud, he said.  “The problem is, we just don’t know enough at the moment
as to when this crisis will end,” said Stringer, who flew out
to  New York  the day before the earthquake hit.  Like other Japanese businesses, Sony is experiencing
blackouts, transportation slowdowns, shortages of materials and
suppliers unable to make shipments, Stringer wrote in an op-ed
column published in the Wall Street Journal March 18. The
company is beginning to recover from the “profound psychic and
physical shock to our bodies and our businesses,” he wrote.  Death Toll  The earthquake and tsunami killed more than 8,000 people
and damaged or destroyed more than 100,000 buildings in the
Tohoku region of northeastern Japan, according to the  National
Police Agency  of Japan. Still, Japan’s economy may avoid a
contraction and grow about 1 percent this year as the nation
rebuilds, according to estimates by analysts at UBS AG and  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)   “There is so much money there,” Stringer told CNN. “They
save more acutely, as you know, than anybody else in the
world.”  Japan will return to nuclear power after the crisis
precipitated by the earthquake, which damaged nuclear reactors,
subsides, Stringer said.  “The walls will be higher and the electricity power will
be reorganized,” Stringer said. “And then, eventually, we’ll
have to go back to nuclear power because windmills aren’t going
to do it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  