-- 
Etisalat Ends $12 Billion Zain Bid Citing Mideast Unrest, Investor Discord

-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-03-19T13:48:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/u-a-e-s-etisalat-terminates-talks-for-12-billion-zain-stake-purchase.html
Emirates Telecommunications Corp.,
the Middle East’s biggest phone company by market value, ended
talks to buy a majority stake in Zain,  Kuwait ’s largest, citing
political unrest and disagreement among shareholders.  “The current political unrest in the region” and “non-
unanimous agreement among Zain shareholders” mean the offer is
“no longer viable,” the Abu Dhabi-based company known as
Etisalat said in an e-mailed statement today.  Etisalat offered $12 billion in September to buy most of
Zain. The collapse of the deal comes after two months of unrest
across the Middle East and North Africa that has toppled
Egyptian and Tunisian presidents, created civil war in  Libya  and
prompted deadly clashes in Yemen and Bahrain, countries
bordering  Saudi Arabia .  “It’s a pity, it would have created an Arabic company on
the world telecoms stage,” said Irfan Ellam, an analyst at  Al
Mal Capital PJSC  in Dubai. “It looks as if Zain no longer wants
to be bought, it looks like they want to remain independent,”
he said in a phone interview today.  Etisalat’s offer was contingent on the sale of Zain’s 25
percent stake in Zain Saudi Arabia. Offers from Bahrain
Telecommunications Co., known as Batelco, and Saudi billionaire
Prince Alwaleed bin Talal’s  Kingdom Holding Co. (KINGDOM)  were rejected by
Zain last month.  Repay Debt  In their latest non-binding offer, Kingdom and Batelco
agreed to pay $950 million in cash. In addition, Zain Saudi
would repay $250 million of debt to Zain Group after ownership
is transferred and the unit has been restructured, Zain said
March 16. Batelco is “confident” it can raise as much as $1.2
billion of debt to finance the bid, Chief Executive Officer
Peter George Kaliaropoulos said in an e-mailed statement today.  If Zain Saudi is sold, Zain Group will rid itself of a cash-
strained asset and “be left with a nice cash-generative company
with a decent footprint in the Middle East,” Ellam said. “The
assets would be of interest to acquirers. Etisalat could come
back,  France Telecom  has ambitions in the region, Kingdom
Holding could decide at a later stage that it wants to expand in
telcoms,” he said.  Deal Opposed  Etisalat’s bid was focused on talks with Kharafi-owned Al-
Khair National for Stocks & Real Estate Co., Zain’s second
biggest shareholder after the Kuwaiti sovereign wealth fund. The
deal was opposed by Sheikh Khalifa Ali Al-Sabah, whose  Al-
Fawares Holding Co.  owns a 4.5 percent Zain stake. Kuwait’s
commercial court in December allowed Etisalat to proceed with
due diligence, denying Al-Fawares’ bid to halt the transaction.  Al-Khair said March 1 its commitment to sell a controlling
stake to Etisalat had expired after Etisalat missed a second
deadline in its acquisition attempt. A day later, Etisalat
reiterated its interest in Zain.  Discussions “have ended” with Al-Khair, Etisalat said in
its statement today.  Etisalat, which had offered 1.7 Kuwaiti dinars ($6) a
share, also cited Kuwait’s “upcoming mandatory offer rules”
for the deal’s collapse. The Capital Markets Law, which took
effect this month, means any acquirer seeking more than 30
percent of a listed Kuwaiti company must make the same offer to
all remaining shareholders. 