-- 
U.S. Nuclear Regulations Aren’t Tougher Than Japan’s, Group Says

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-03-19T17:53:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/u-s-nuclear-regulations-aren-t-tougher-than-japan-s-group-says.html
U.S. regulation of nuclear-power
plants isn’t more strict than  Japan ’s and in some cases requires
operators to do less, said an official with the  Union of
Concerned Scientists , which monitors the nuclear industry.  “It’s unfair for us to say Japan has weaker regulation,”
Dave Lochbaum, the director of the group’s nuclear safety
project, told reporters today on a conference call. The Japanese
“just had worse luck,” he said.  Japan has a lower threshold for replacing damaged pipes
than U.S. regulators, and requires back up power systems to run
for twice as long, Lochbaum said.  Batteries to operate cooling-water pumps that help prevent
reactor fuel from melting and causing an explosion must operate
for eight hours in Japan, he said. In the U.S., 93 of the 104
reactors operating have batteries that last four hours, he said.  Nuclear plants in Japan have additional backup generators
running on  diesel fuel  to keep the cooling-water systems
operating. The units at the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant
were apparently washed away in the tsunami created by the
magnitude-9  earthquake, leading some reactors and spent fuel
pools to overheat and release radiation, he said.  “All reactors have hazards,” Lochbaum said. “We need to
revisit our design and procedure so our reactors become less
vulnerable.”  President  Barack Obama  has sought a comprehensive safety
review of all U.S. reactors. The nuclear industry has sought to
reassure policy makers in  Washington  about the safety of U.S.
plants.  “We feel like we have a very good regulatory regime in the
U.S.,” said Bryant Kinney, a spokesman for the Washington-based  Nuclear Energy Institute , in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  