-- 
U.S., Coalition Fire More Than 110 Missiles to Create No-Fly Zone in Libya

-- B y   A n t h o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-03-19T23:18:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/u-s-coalition-fire-more-than-110-missiles-to-create-no-fly-zone-in-libya.html
  Libya  was pummeled today by more
than 110 Tomahawk cruise missiles in the first phase of an
assault by international forces intent on protecting civilians
from attack by their leader  Muammar Qaddafi  and his loyalists.  French fighter jets hit a Libyan armored vehicle and then
four tanks in the first volley of “Operation Odyssey Dawn,” an
advance by a coalition of nations, including the U.S., U.K.,  France ,  Canada  and Italy, to create a no-fly zone over the North
African nation.  As many as 25 vessels, including the USS Mount Whitney
command vessel, were coordinated to weaken Libya’s command-and-
control capability, U.S. Vice Admiral William Gortley told
reporters in Washington. Gortley said the events, which
continued into the night in Libya, were the first in a
“multiphase” operation meant to “shape the battle space in
Libya.”  Gortley said more than 20 targets -- including four
airfields in Tripoli and air-defense sites in the east -- were
the focus of the first-day of attacks. He did not set a deadline
for when the no-fly zone would be clear but he said that the
success of the operation may take days to verify.  Gortley said the assault was supported by Western and Arab
nations, while declining to name all involved. Other countries
“will announce their own involvement,” he said. The attack
 began at about 3 p.m. local time and did not involve U.S.
 aircraft traveling overland, he said.  Libya Responds  Libya official Mohammed Al-Zewi told reporters in Tripoli
that the attack was “barbaric aggression,” and civilians were
injured and needed hospital care. Al-Zewi identified himself as
chairman of the Libyan National Public Conference.  The coalition struck after European, U.S. and Arab
officials gathered in Paris today to discuss the situation in
Libya and continuing attacks by government forces on civilians.
Even as they met, Qaddafi’s forces attacked the rebel stronghold
of Benghazi in defiance of their pledge and international
demands for a cease-fire, television stations reported.  Just before news about the deployment of coalition forces
broke, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  issued a warning to the
Libyan regime. “Right now our planes are blocking air strikes
on the city” of Benghazi, told reporters before the strike.
“French planes are ready to act against armored vehicles that
would be threatening unarmed civilians.”  U.S. Support  U.S. President Barack Obama and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , in coordinated statements from Brazil and Paris, also
warned that the U.S. was ready to help with “the effective
implementation” of a United Nations-authorized no-fly zone.  “This is not an outcome that the  United States  or any or
our partners sought,” Obama said, after authorizing what he
called “limited military action” in Libya. Obama added: “We
cannot stand idly by when a tyrant tells his own people there
will be no mercy.”  “America has unique capabilities, and we will bring them
to bear to help our European and Canadian allies and Arab
partners stop future violence against civilians,” Clinton said
at a separate news conference in Paris.  The Libyan revolt is the bloodiest of popular uprisings in
the Middle East this year that have toppled Tunisian President
Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak .
There have also been anti-government demonstrations in Yemen,
Bahrain, Jordan, Syria, Algeria, Iran, Iraq and Oman, calling
for democracy and improved living standards.  “The time for action has come,” British Prime Minister
David Cameron said before the attack. It is “vitally important
action takes place, urgently.”  Unanimous Vote  The UN Security Council voted March 17 to ground Qaddafi’s
air force and to grant military authority to the U.S. and its
allies to protect civilians and population centers threatened by
his forces.  The UN’s principal policy-making panel voted 10-0, with
five abstentions, to adopt a resolution that establishes a no-
fly zone over Libya, demands a cease-fire and allows “all
necessary measures” to protect civilians “excluding a foreign
occupation force of any form on any part of Libyan territory.”    Brazil ,  China ,  Germany ,  India  and  Russia  abstained.  Libya’s crude oil exports may be halted for “many months”
because of damage to facilities and international sanctions, the  International Energy Agency  said March 15. Crude oil for April
delivery slipped 9 cents to $101.07 a barrel this week on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The conflict, which has left
hundreds dead, has sent futures up about 23 percent from a year
ago.  Al-Jazeera cited the head of the rebel council, Mustafa Abdel Jalil, as saying bombing raids took place in Benghazi,
which has about 1 million people. There was no indication that
Qaddafi followed through on his regime’s pledge to observe UN
demands for a cease-fire, a State Department official said.  Arab Leaders  Arab officials attending the Paris summit included Arab
League Secretary-General Amr Moussa, United Arab Emirates
Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al-Nahyan, Iraqi
Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari, Jordanian Foreign Minister
Nasser Judeh, Morocco’s Foreign Minister Taieb Fassi Fihri and
Qatar Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad Bin Jasim Al Thani, according
to an e-mailed list of the participants.  Qaddafi must “immediately end the acts of violence carried
out against civilians,” according to a joint statement issued
just after the meeting in Paris.  ‘Without Any Limits’  Before the attack, the U.K deployed Tornado and BAE Systems
Plc Eurofighter Typhoon jets.  Italy ’s cabinet approved the use
of as many as seven air bases for the operation. Italy is only
providing bases, not aircraft, for the mission for the moment,
Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi said. The NATO base in Naples
would probably be the main center for coordinated international
action, Berlusconi told reporters in Paris.  Libya has about 30 sites with surface-to-air (SAM)
missiles, linked to 15 early-warning radar, that pose a
“significant threat” to foreign warplanes over or near Libyan
airspace, according to information provided by the Pentagon.  Libya has a limited air force, with about 80 percent of its
aircraft “non-operational.” Libyan pilot training levels and
air combat tactics “have remained far inferior to those of U.S.
pilots and well-trained Middle Eastern pilots,” such as those
from  Egypt  and Saudi Arabia, according to the Pentagon.  U.S. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates postponed a trip to
Russia, scheduled to begin today, to monitor developments in
Libya from  Washington , Pentagon spokesman  Geoff Morrell  said.  CF-18 Jets  Canada will deploy six CF-18 fighter jets, Postmedia News
reported, citing people not identified by name.    Norway  will contribute as many as six F-16s and one Orion
plane with crew of about 100 in five to 10 days, officials said.
Denmark has sent six F-16s to the U.S. Naval Air Station at
Sigonella in Sicily, several of which are likely to be in Libyan
airspace Sunday, Danish news agency Ritzau and newspaper
Jyllands-Posten said today.  Qatar plans to take part in the mission to protect Libyan
civilians under the UN resolution, the state-run Qatar News
Agency.  The U.S. sent as many as 1,200 Marines and two Navy
vessels, including the amphibious assault ship  USS Kearsarge , to
the Mediterranean Sea off the Libyan coast, Gates said March 1.
The U.S. is also monitoring Libyan airspace.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  