-- 
Workers Reconnect Power Cable at One Reactor in Fukushima Nuclear Plant

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-03-19T18:32:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/workers-miss-deadline-to-reconnect-power-at-japan-s-stricken-nuclear-plant.html
Workers reconnected the power cable
to one reactor at the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic plant,
signaling progress in efforts to prevent  Japan ’s nuclear crisis
from escalating.  Radiation levels at the plant went close to zero after a
water-spraying operation by troops and fire-fighters, suggesting
the water was striking its target,  Kyodo News  reported
yesterday, citing a Tokyo fire department official. The
facility, damaged following a March 11 earthquake and tsunami,
hasn’t had a “massive radiation release,” said the
International Atomic Energy Agency.    Tokyo Electric  Power Co. will begin work on restoring power
to the cooling system of the No. 2 reactor this morning, said
Hidehiko Nishiyama, a spokesman for the Japan Nuclear and
Industrial Safety Agency. Tokyo Electric cautioned that cooling
systems may fail to function even with power restored because of
damage sustained during the quake and tsunami.  “It’s really a question of how many of the pumping systems
they can start up,” said George Dracoulis, a professor in the  Australian National University ’s nuclear physics department.
“It’s still not clear whether all of them can be restarted
because they may be damaged.”  Tepco, as Tokyo Electric is known, vented hydrogen gas at
reactor Nos. 5 and 6 yesterday to prevent a buildup of pressure,
spokesman Kaoru Yoshida said. Such buildups caused explosions at
units 1, 2 and 3.  Milk, Spinach  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said radiation above
government limits was found in milk and spinach produced near
the plant struck by the magnitude-9 earthquake, Japan’s
strongest on record. Radioactive iodine in drinking water from
Fukushima prefecture was at one point slightly above government
safety limits, the  Associated Press  reported.  While the damaged plant will release radiation into the
future, the amounts emitted probably won’t threaten people
outside of the island nation,  International Atomic Energy Agency 
safety director Denis Flory said today at a press conference in
Vienna.  A series of aftershocks have rocked the country since, and
a 5.9-temblor struck about 45 miles (73 kilometers) southwest of
the Fukushima plant yesterday, according to the  U.S. Geological
Survey .  People living within 30 kilometers of the plant should wear
masks and long sleeves and stay out of the rain, Japan’s nuclear
safety agency said.  Emissions Toward Capital  Today the weather may take emissions toward the capital,
220 kilometers south of the station, Austria’s meteorological
center  said , using data from the Comprehensive Test-Ban Treaty
Organization. At current levels, the radiation isn’t dangerous
beyond the immediate vicinity of the plant,  Austria ’s
Meteorological and Geophysics Center said in a statement.  A frontal system with heavy rain and northerly winds is
predicted for today, “increasing the risk for the region around
Tokyo,” the center said.  Radiation has been detected in eastern Russia at levels
that pose no risk to humans, the center said.  Germany  will
measure radiation levels of people, aircraft and cars shipped
from Japan as “precautionary measures,” the country’s
environment ministry said.  “I can’t see members of the general public exposed to
dangerous levels of radiation,” Don Higson, a fellow at the
Australasian Radiation Protection Society and former adviser to
the International Atomic Energy Agency, said by phone.  New York Response  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said Lieutenant Governor
Robert McDuffy and other state officials will meet on March 22
with the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission to discuss how safe
Entergy Corp.’s Indian Point nuclear-power plant, located about
24 miles north of  New York City , would be in an earthquake.  Cuomo earlier this week expressed surprise at reports that
the Indian Point plant, which opened in 1962, was the most
vulnerable to an earthquake of all U.S. nuclear facilities.  Next week’s meeting was set up by the White House at
Cuomo’s request, the governor’s office said in an e-mailed
statement. It will include Howard Glaser, director of New York
state operations, the statement said.  Tepco said yesterday workers restarted a cooling pump from
backup generators at the No. 5 reactor, which was undergoing
maintenance at the time of the earthquake and was one of the
least damaged. The power cable attached to the No. 2 unit will
also power the No. 1 unit, Nishiyama of the safety agency said.  Restoring Power  Power may be restored to all six reactors today, Hikaru
Kuroda, chief of Tepco’s nuclear facility management department,
said in  Tokyo .  The cable connection is a “positive development,” Graham
Andrew, a special adviser to IAEA Chief Yukiya Amano on nuclear
technology, said in Vienna. “We hope that power is returned to
unit 2 today, which can then be used as a hub to restore power
to unit 1.”  The failure of backup generators used to pump cooling water
helped cause explosions in at least three of the buildings
surrounding Fukushima’s six reactors. A fire also started in a
pond containing spent fuel rods from reactor No. 4.  “We need to see the pumps working and once the cooling
systems are resumed then the worst is over,” Robin Grimes, a
professor of materials physics at Imperial University in  London ,
said by phone. “We need to see the temperatures continuing to
go down and the radiation going down.”  Radioactive Materials  Japan’s nuclear safety agency said March 17 there is a
possibility of no water at the No. 4 reactor’s spent-fuel
cooling pool. If exposed to air, the fuel rods could decay,
catch fire and spew radioactive materials into the air.  Efforts to control the crisis at the plant were delayed by
concerns over damaging valuable assets and initial passivity
from the Japanese government, the Wall Street Journal reported
yesterday, citing people familiar with the matter.  Tepco was reluctant to use seawater to cool the No. 1
reactor because it would likely make the equipment inoperable,
the Journal reported. The utility didn’t use seawater until the
evening of March 12 after being ordered to do so by Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan , the Journal said.  “I’m aware there are many criticisms, and rightly so,”
Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said yesterday in response
to a question about the Journal report. “We did our best during
the whole process, and we aren’t at a stage where we can make
any judgment on that.”  A veteran of the 1986 Chernobyl disaster who visited Japan
to offer help in its effort to contain its nuclear crisis told
Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin Japan’s response has been
“inadequate.”  Using helicopters to dump water on the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant was “useless,” Vladimir Asmolov, now deputy head
of state nuclear power company Rosatom, told Putin at a meeting
in Sakhalin in  Russia ’s far east today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  