-- 
World Economic Recovery Faces ‘Powerful Shocks,’ Roach Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-19T06:49:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/world-economic-recovery-faces-powerful-shocks-roach-says.html
The global economic recovery may be
threatened by an array of “powerful shocks” including Japan’s
record earthquake and  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis, said  Stephen Roach , nonexecutive chairman of  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Asia.  The impact of Japan’s magnitude-9 earthquake, together with
the euro-region’s funding problems, turmoil in the Middle East,
and a jump in oil prices are “worrisome” as the global
economy’s rebound from the recession of 2008 and 2009 remains
weak, Roach said at a conference in Beijing today.  “When you have a weak recovery, you don’t have a cushion
that allows you to be able to withstand shocks,” Roach said.
“Right now we have a lot of shocks. We are too optimistic on
global growth.”  Global equities lost about $1 trillion of market value this
week and the yen touched a post-World War II high amid concern
the March 11 temblor and tsunami and the nuclear crisis they
triggered will hurt  Japan ’s growth. Crude oil reached a 29-month
high of $106.95 a barrel in  New York  on March 7, as unrest that
has already unseated rulers in Tunisia and Egypt spread to
Bahrain and Libya.  Roach is more pessimistic than economists at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co., who said the world economy
will bear up in the face of the twin blows from Japan and oil.
Goldman Sachs forecasts expansion of 4.8 percent this year,
while JPMorgan predicts 4.4 percent, surpassing the 3.4 percent
average of the past two decades.  Continued Growth  The world economy will continue to grow even as Japan’s
earthquake causes “modest supply disruptions,” Citigroup
Inc.’s chief U.S. equity strategist,  Tobias Levkovich , said in a
Bloomberg Television interview yesterday.  More stimulus may be needed to spur a global recovery,  Joseph Stiglitz , the Nobel Prize-winning economist, said in
Beijing today. The U.S. Federal Reserve has joined the  European
Central Bank  in holding interest rates unchanged after adding to
its bond purchase plan last year to bolster growth.  “Austerity has never worked and won’t work in the current
context,” Stiglitz said. “Unfortunately, many of the countries
in Europe and elsewhere are focusing on austerity which means
the prognosis in many of these countries and therefore the
global economy on that side is rather pessimistic.”  While austerity won’t help the global recovery, stimulus
programs including “zero”  interest rates  and “open-ended”
budget deficits may not work either, Roach said.  “To do it with artificial stimulus, you have this image of
a patient laying in a recovery room in a hospital,” Roach said.
“Whenever you withdraw the medicine the patient goes back into
a coma. That’s a real risk for the global economy today.”  --Kevin Hamlin. Editors: Shiyin Chen, Paul Tighe  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  