-- 
Yen Declines After G-7’s Post-Earthquake Market Intervention Pares Gain

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-03-19T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-19/yen-decline-after-g-7-s-post-earthquake-intervention-pares-gain.html
The yen slumped against all of its
major counterparts after the Group of Seven nations intervened
in foreign-exchange markets yesterday, paring gains earlier in
the week as the nation copes with a deadly earthquake.  The Japanese currency fell the most in more than two years
against the dollar, paring a weekly gain, after the  Bank of
Japan  was joined by G-7 central banks in an effort to stabilize
foreign exchange markets. The yen surged 4.5 percent in 26
minutes March 17 to a post-World War II high on concern Japanese
investors would repatriate assets to pay for rebuilding after
the March 11 tsunami and resulting nuclear power crisis. The
euro rose against the dollar on speculation the European Central
Bank will increase  interest rates  before the  Federal Reserve .  “People were expecting intervention all week and finally
they came in,” said David Mann, head of research for the
Americas at Standard Chartered Bank, in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” with  Carol Massar  and  Matt Miller . “This is about limiting volatility and reducing
uncertainty.”  The yen strengthened 1.5 percent to 80.58 per dollar, from
81.84 March 11. It fell 2.1 percent yesterday, its first drop in
six days, and hit a record high of 76.25 the previous day.  The yen declined 0.5 percent to 114.31 per euro. The dollar
depreciated 2 percent to $1.4182 per euro, from $1.3903.  G-7 Intervenes  The Japanese currency weakened yesterday as Fed and Bank of
Canada action followed those of the Bank of  Japan , the ECB, the  Bank of England , the Bank of  France ,  Germany ’s Bundesbank and
the Italian central bank. Japan’s authorities probably sold less
than 2 trillion yen ($25 billion) in yesterday’s foreign-
exchange market intervention, a Japanese government official
told reporters in  Tokyo .  The yen had appreciated 5.2 percent since the 9-magnitude
earthquake and tsunami through March 17. Japan’s Finance
Minister, Yoshihiko Noda, said the coordinated central bank
interventions are an attempt to limit the damage a strong
Japanese currency will have on the nation’s economy.  Added Liquidity  The BOJ added 4 trillion yen to Japan’s financial system
yesterday, bringing its emergency fund injections this week to
38 trillion yen.  The euro gained against most of its major counterparts as  European Central Bank  President  Jean-Claude Trichet  indicated
yesterday the bank still plans to raise interest rates next
month.  “I have nothing to add, nothing to withdraw,” Trichet
told reporters in  Frankfurt  when asked if policy makers are
still in a posture of strong vigilance, ECB code words for an
imminent rate increase. “No new message at all,” he said.  Trichet took investors by surprise earlier this month when
he announced the ECB may raise its benchmark rate from a record
low of 1 percent in April. Since Japan’s earthquake, investors
had pared bets on higher ECB rates.  “The market in general had expected that what’s happening
in Japan would lead to slower growth, and so maybe  Europe  would
be more dovish,” said Douglas Borthwick, managing director and
head of foreign-exchange trading at Stamford, Connecticut-based
Faros Trading LLC. “This confirms that they have no interest in
being dovish whatsoever.”  Fed Policy  The U.S. central bank has kept its benchmark lending rate
at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008. The Fed will boost
the rate by 25 basis points in the last three months of the
year, according to the weighted average forecast of 68 analysts
in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Swiss franc was the biggest gainer against the yen as
concern unrest in the Middle East and North Africa would spread
drove investors to seek haven assets. Bahrain declared a three-
month state of emergency on March 15 as forces from neighboring  Saudi Arabia  arrived in the nation to support its government.  The Swiss currency added 1.7 percent to 89.49 yen. It
advanced 3.1 percent to 90.10 centimes per dollar.    New Zealand ’s dollar,  Australia ’s currency and the South
African rand dropped the most against the yen as commodity
prices slumped.  Kiwi, Aussie  The kiwi dropped 3.1 percent to 58.90 yen, the Aussie
slumped 3.3 percent to 80.24 yen and the rand weakened 3.2
percent to 11.52 yen.  The three nations are commodity exporters. The Thomson
Reuters /Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials lost 0.2 percent.  The franc pared its gain and currencies of most commodity-
exporting countries rose yesterday after  Libya  declared a cease-
fire.  One-month implied volatility for the dollar-yen rate
reached 20.1 percent March 17, the highest in two years. One-
month euro-yen volatility dropped to 14.75 percent, from 17.25
percent. Implied volatility is a measure of expected price
swings and the key gauge for option prices.  Implied volatility in the G-7 currencies, as measured by
the JPMorgan Chase & Co. index, dropped 2.4 percent to 11.58. It
reached a nine-month high of 14.13 on March 17.  ‘Recent Movements’  “In response to recent movements in the exchange rate of
the yen associated with the tragic events in Japan, and at the
request of the Japanese authorities, the authorities of the
U.S., the U.K.,  Canada , and the European Central Bank will join
with Japan, on March 18, 2011, in concerted intervention in
exchange markets,” the G-7 said yesterday in the statement.  G-7 members hadn’t entered the market together since
September 2000, when they sought to buoy the euro as it tumbled
in its second year of existence.  Japan’s intervention was its first since September, when it
acted on its own after the yen had climbed to 82.88, the
strongest at that time since 1995. The BOJ sold 2 trillion yen
in that effort, which was the first such move since 2004. Even
after the move, the yen appreciated to a 15-year high Nov. 1,
before weakening.  The yen has dropped 1.9 percent against a basket of
currencies from 10 developed-world nations this year, while the
dollar is down 2.6 percent, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indices. The euro has advanced 3.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  