-- Abraaj Plans New Turkish Buyouts in 2012 After Acibadem Exit
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-02-09T14:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/abraaj-plans-new-turkish-buyouts-in-2012-after-acibadem-exit-1-.html
Abraaj Capital Ltd., the  Middle
East ’s biggest buyout firm, will buy more Turkish companies this
year after it raised about $1 billion from selling the Turkish
hospital chain  Acibadem Saglik Hizmetleri & Ticaret AS .  The Dubai-based private equity firm, which has about $6.5
billion of assets under management, is currently in
“significant negotiations with three or four companies” in
 Turkey , Selcuk Yorgancioglu, Abraaj’s country chief for Turkey,
said in an interview in Istanbul yesterday.  Abraaj especially likes the food-making industry and the
companies the firm is negotiating to buy aren’t publicly traded,
Yorgancioglu said, declining to give further details.  Turkey has been a popular target for deals in recent years
as companies seek to tap its $735 billion economy, which grew
8.2 percent in the third quarter of 2011, the fastest increase
among Group of 20 countries after  China . Ernst & Young expects
mergers and acquisitions in Turkey to rise to $20 billion this
year from $14 billion in 2011.  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the London-based
distiller, bought the Turkish spirits maker Mey Icki Sanayi Ltd.
for $2.1 billion from U.S.-based buyout firm TPG Capital in
February in Turkey’s biggest private-equity exit ever.  “After the Mey Icki and Acibadem exits, Turkey proved to
be a market where large deals can go the full cycle for private
equity,” Yorgancioglu said. He added that the firm was raising
a new fund, and expected to have some news regarding two more
deals this year.  Foreign Investors  Carlyle Group , a U.S. private-equity firm, bought 48
percent of the Istanbul-based education group Bahcesehir
Kolejleri for an undisclosed price, it said last month. Cerberus
Capital Management LP, a New York-based private equity firm,
announced a joint investment initiative on Oct. 4 with the
Turkish broker Garanti Securities for about 10 buyouts or stake
purchases in Turkish family-run businesses with market
capitalizations of $50 million to $250 million.  The Gazprombank OJSC unit Prima Energy Trading LLC plans to
acquire 26 percent of Avrasya Gaz AS, a Turkish wholesale gas
trader. Eastgate Capital Group will also buy a 49.8 percent
stake in Fabeks Dis Ticaret AS, a Turkish textile maker,
according to the website of the Competition Authority, an
Ankara-based antitrust body.  Company valuations in Turkey have come down since the
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapse in 2008, Yorgancioglu
said.  Investment Environment  “The investment environment in Turkey -- with its prudent
central bank policies, stock market volumes greater than most
central European countries and effective regulatory institutions
-- makes it a very attractive target,” Yorgancioglu said.
“Cash comes into Turkey and will keep coming.”  Turkey’s food are attractive because they export to most of
the country’s Middle Eastern neighbors.  “We like the  food industry  here very much,” Yorgancioglu
said. “We can quickly create synergies with our Spinneys
supermarkets.” Spinneys, a supermarket chain based in Nasr
City,  Egypt , also has stores in Lebanon, Qatar and Jordan,
according to the company’s website.  Abraaj, which prefers to hold majority stakes in its
portfolio companies, is also looking into the services and
education industries in Turkey, Yorgancioglu said. The buyout
firm also plans a real estate investment through a separate
fund.  Selling Acibadem  Abraaj and the Aydinlar family, which co-owned Acibadem,
sold 75 percent of the parent of Turkey’s largest hospital chain
in December. The deal with Integrated Healthcare Holdings Sdn, a
unit of the Malaysian sovereign wealth fund  Khazanah Nasional
Bhd (KNBZ) , put the market value Acibadem Saglik at $1.68 billion.
Abraaj exited the investment while the Aydinlar family retains
25 percent.  Yorgancioglu said Acibadem’s enterprise value, the sum of
it debt and equity value used as a benchmark in M&A
transactions, was about $2 billion. His firm bought the stake
for about $606 million in 2007 and 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  