-- Abu Dhabi Shares Poised for Biggest Gain in Week on Earnings; Aldar Rises
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-02-09T11:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/abu-dhabi-shares-poised-for-biggest-gain-in-week-on-earnings-aldar-rises.html
Abu Dhabi ’s shares rose the most in a
week amid speculation earnings at the emirate’s biggest real-
estate companies will improve and they will benefit from
infrastructure spending plans.  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR) , Abu Dhabi’s biggest property
developer, rose for a third day this week.  Sorouh Real Estate (SOROUH) ,
the emirate’s second-largest developer, rallied 3.4 percent. Abu
Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  rose 0.1 percent, the most since Feb.
2, to 2,466.74 at the 2 p.m. close in the emirate, trimming this
week’s drop to 0.4 percent. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  fell 0.1
percent.  “Sentiment for real-estate stocks has improved slightly as
soon to-be-announced earnings are expected to be substantially
better for both Aldar and Sorouh,” said Ziad Dabbas, a
financial analyst at  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC , the  United
Arab Emirates ’ second-biggest bank by assets.  Aldar, which obtained 16.8 billion dirhams ($4.6 billion)
from Abu Dhabi’s government by selling assets in December,  may
post  a 2011 profit of 494 million dirhams after a loss of 2.4
billion dirhams a year earlier, according to the mean estimate
of eight analysts on Bloomberg. Sorouh may report next week
full-year profit almost tripled to 379 million dirhams,
according to the mean estimate of six analysts on Bloomberg.  Aldar shares rose 3.2 percent to 97 fils. Sorouh climbed to
92 fils, the highest close since Dec. 11.  Property Prices  About 80 million shares  traded  in Abu Dhabi today, compared
with a 12-month daily average of about 62 million shares.  Abu Dhabi, the oil-rich emirate transforming itself into a
business and cultural hub, plans to resume projects including
branches of the Louvre and Guggenheim museums after reviewing
their viability, the government said in January.  “The executive council decision has helped build momentum
in Abu Dhabi’s real-estate stocks, though some macro issues
still remain in the sector,” said Sebastien Henin, who helps
oversee $100 million at The National Investor in Abu Dhabi.  Real-estate prices have fallen more than 60 percent in
Dubai and 45 percent in Abu Dhabi from 2008 peaks after the
global credit crisis caused banks to curtail lending and
speculators left the market. Developers completing contracts are
supplying thousands of homes and offices at a time when demand
is dropping.  In Dubai,  Arabtec Holding Co. (ARTC) , the U.A.E.’s biggest
construction company, rallied 3 percent to 2.74 dirhams, the
highest close since October 2009. The stock is up 72 percent
this year amid speculation the company will benefit from
regional infrastructure spending.  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  advanced 0.3 percent. Oman’s
benchmark stock  index  and Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  were little changed.
Bahrain’s  measure  gained 0.1 percent and  Kuwait ’s  gauge  rose 0.2
percent.  Saudi Arabia ’s market was closed for the weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  