-- Activision Fourth-Quarter Tops Estimates on ‘Call of Duty’; Outlook Misses
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-02-09T21:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/activision-fourth-quarter-profit-tops-estimates-while-forecast-falls-short.html
Activision Blizzard Inc. , the largest
video-game publisher, posted fourth-quarter profit that exceeded
analysts’  estimates  on sales of “Call of Duty.” The company’s
forecast for this quarter fell short of projections.  Net income totaled $99 million, or 8 cents a share,
compared with a loss of $233 million, or 20 cents, a year
earlier,  Santa Monica , California-based Activision said today in
a  statement . Revenue fell 1.4 percent to $1.41 billion.  Profit excluding some items totaled 62 cents a share,
topping the 56-cent average of 19  analysts ’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Adjusted sales, excluding changes in deferred
revenue, were $2.41 billion, beating estimates of $2.2 billion.  This quarter, Activision sees profit of 3 cents a share,
excluding items, below the 15-cent average of eight analysts’
estimates. Adjusted revenue will be $525 million, less than
estimates of $787.6 million. The company has no major packaged
good titles set for release before March, Bobby Kotick, chief
executive officer, said in an interview. The first-quarter
forecast also doesn’t incorporate a new Blizzard release.  Activision  rose  0.9 percent to $12.66 at the close in  New
York  and has gained 2.8 percent this year.  Through December, Activision sold 21.5 million units of its
“Call of Duty” shooter franchise, the company said in an e-
mail, citing data from NPD Group, Charttrack and GfK.  Activision stabilized subscriber defections from the
Blizzard unit’s “World of Warcraft” online multiplayer games,
after losing almost 1 million the previous quarter. The number
of paying subscribers fell to 10.2 million from 10.3 million in
October.  New Online Titles  The online multiplayer unit plans to release two new titles
this year, Kotick said. He declined to provide the dates.  “They are hard at work at making sure they’re going to
deliver things that are going to satisfy their audience,”
Kotick said.  Activision hasn’t followed other traditional game companies
in developing games for social platforms such as Facebook Inc.  The company is trying to boost sales with digital downloads
of new game levels and an online subscription service for its
core “Call of Duty” franchise. As of Jan. 31, it had 1.5
million people paying $49.99 annually for strategy guides and
other content.  “You’re seeing shifts in platforms, shifts in places
people are consuming interactive entertainment and
stratification to very high-quality experiences,” Kotick said.  Digital revenue accounted for more than 34 percent of total
sales for the year, the company said in the statement.  For all of 2012, Activision forecasts profit of 94 cents a
share excluding items, on adjusted sales of $4.5 billion.
Analysts project 97 cents on revenue of $4.55 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  