-- Thai Constitution Plan May Threaten Turmoil
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-02-09T06:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/thai-constitution-plan-may-threaten-turmoil.html
Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s party submitted its plan to overhaul the
constitution written after a 2006 coup that ousted her brother,
an effort that has sparked political turmoil in the past.  The Pheu Thai party presented a proposal to parliament to
create a Constitution Drafting Assembly, House Speaker Somsak
Kiatsuranont told reporters in Bangkok today. The measure will
be put on the agenda for lawmakers to discuss within 15 days,
Somsak said.  The committee would comprise 99 people and have 180 days to
draw up a new constitution, Pheu Thai Spokesman Prompong
Nopparit said by phone yesterday. Moving to rewrite the
constitution is Yingluck’s biggest challenge to a military
establishment that six years ago overthrew former Prime Minister
 Thaksin Shinawatra  since she took power in August.  “The Pheu Thai party sees that the 2007 constitution is
not democratic,” Prompong said. “It weakens political parties,
weakens politicians and limits the freedom of people. The
constitution should be drafted by people for people.”  A nationwide referendum will be held after the rewrite is
completed, Prompong said. Moves by Thaksin’s allies in 2008 to
change the constitution sparked violent street protests by his
yellow-shirted opponents that shut down parts of Bangkok and
culminated in the seizure of the city’s airports.  “The government thinks it is confident enough to make a
move that will certainly upset the military and anti-Thaksin
forces,” said  Michael Montesano , a visiting research fellow at
the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies in  Singapore . “I’d be
very surprised if the Yellow Shirts can bring out the numbers
they were able to bring out several years ago.”  Post-Coup Constitution  Thailand ’s  SET Index (SET)  fell 0.1 percent as of the mid-day
break, after rising 1.4 percent yesterday to a six-month high.
The baht weakened 0.1 percent against the dollar.  The proposal calls for the amendment of Article 291, which
specifies how the constitution can be changed. Right now
amendments require the approval of a joint sitting of the 480-
member House of Representatives and 150-member Senate.  The assembly would comprise 99 people, including a
representative elected from each of Thailand’s 77 provinces and
22 legal experts selected by the Parliament, Prompong said.
Members of political parties would be barred from sitting on the
assembly, he said.  The  People’s Alliance  for Democracy, known as the Yellow
Shirts, will protest on the streets again if the constitution
seeks to give Thaksin an amnesty or reduces the power of the
monarchy, spokesman  Parnthep Pourpongpan  said yesterday. The
group has worn yellow in the past to show allegiance to the
king.  ‘Grab More Power’  “They know that this process will create a constitution
for the Pheu Thai party to amnesty Thaksin and grab more
power,” Parnthep said by phone. “They are trying to avoid the
investigation process by the court.”  Thaksin, who founded what became Thailand’s biggest mobile-
phone company, draws his support from poorer Thais in the north
and northeast who make up a majority of the population. In July,
Pheu Thai won 265 seats in the 500-seat parliament, the fifth
straight time a party linked to Thaksin has won the most seats
in an election since 2001.  Pheu Thai won the most seats in 37 provinces during the
last election, compared with 25 for the main opposition Democrat
party. The remaining 15 provinces either were split or won by
smaller parties,  election results  show.  The army has no opinion on the proposed amendments,
spokesman  Sansern Kaewkamnerd  said by phone. The military ousted
Thaksin in 2006 on grounds he failed to respect  King Bhumibol
Adulyadej , 84.  Political Bans  Under a clause in the  post-coup constitution , a party can
be disbanded and its executive board banned from office for five
years if one member is found guilty of a crime. Since the coup,
courts have disbanded two parties composed of Thaksin’s allies
that won elections in 2005 and 2007.  In 2008, Thaksin’s allies proposed changing the clause that
made it easy to dissolve political parties, triggering the
airport protests that led to a change in government. After
violence in 2010 that claimed more than 90 lives, former prime
minister and current opposition leader Abhisit Vejjajiva ignored
a reconciliation committee’s suggestion to change the party
dissolution clause while making two minor tweaks.  Thaksin has lived overseas since fleeing a two-year jail
sentence in 2008 for abuse of power. After his allies won July
elections, Thaksin said a new constitution was needed “to allow
freedom and justice.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  