-- Thai Stocks May Gain Extra 16% This Year on Consumption, Top Analyst Says
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-02-09T05:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/thai-stocks-may-gain-extra-16-this-year-on-consumption-top-analyst-says.html
Thailand ’s benchmark stock index may
climb a further 16 percent this year as a rebound in spending
following the nation’s worst floods in almost 70 years boosts
earnings, according to  SCB Securities Co.   The benchmark  SET Index (SET)  may rise to 1,300 by the end of the
year driven by shares of  oil companies  and food producers as
demand increases and prices rise, Sukit Udomsirikul, an
investment strategist at SCB Securities, said in a phone
interview from Bangkok. The SET has gained 9.2 percent this year
and rose 0.4 percent to 1,119.97 at 12:04 p.m. in Bangkok.  “Thai equities are very attractive to overseas investors
because their valuations are still at a discount to other
Southeast Asian markets,” Sukit, jointly  ranked  the nation’s
top equity strategist with Credit Suisse Group AG’s Daniel
Fineman by the  Securities Analysts Association  last year, said
today. “Corporate earnings growth will rebound dramatically on
higher spending on flood reconstruction and a recovery in
domestic consumption.”  The SET trades at 11.8 times estimated earnings, compared
with 13.9 times for  Singapore ’s benchmark index, 14.5 times for
the  Philippines ,  Malaysia ’s 14.5 times and  Indonesia ’s 13.4
times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The central bank
said the economy may grow 4.9 percent this year, from an
estimated 1 percent in 2011, when flooding swamped more than
16,000 factories and killed more than 700 people.  Oil Companies  Overseas investors  bought a net  5.45 billion baht ($177
million) of Thai shares yesterday, the highest amount since Dec.
23, according to stock-exchange  data . That brought this year’s
total investment to 21 billion baht, compared with a 30.8
billion-baht selloff in the same period in 2011.  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra has pledged to spend 350
billion baht on infrastructure to prevent a repeat of last
year’s flooding. The cost of the disaster is about 1.43 trillion
baht, according to the finance ministry’s estimate.  Oil companies and food producers will outperform the market
in 2012, Sukit said. Higher  oil prices  will boost earnings at
 PTT Pcl (PTT) , the nation’s biggest company by market value, and  PTT
Exploration & Production Pcl , an oil explorer, he said.  Charoen Pokphand Foods Pcl (CPF) , the nation’s largest producer
of animal feeds and meat, will also benefit from a recovery in
domestic demand, he said.  Thailand was ranked second behind  China  in Bloomberg
Markets’ first ranking of the most-promising emerging and
frontier markets. The list is based on more than a dozen
measures of the investment climate, from forecast gross domestic
product growth to ease of doing business.  Political Risks  Still, the valuation of Thai stocks dropped below that of
other countries in the region on concern about the government’s
flood-prevention plan and domestic political tension, according
to Aberdeen Asset Management Plc.  “The possible repeat of the devastating floods still
unnerves overseas investors, as the government hasn’t
demonstrated a clear prevention plan,” Adithep Vanabriksha,
Bangkok-based chief investment officer at Aberdeen, which
manages about $270 billion of assets worldwide, said in an
interview yesterday. “Political rifts haven’t yet been resolved
and can worsen at any time.”  Yingluck’s ruling Pheu Thai party submitted today a
proposal to create a Constitution Drafting Assembly, the first
step in a plan to overhaul a constitution written after a 2006
coup that deposed former prime minister  Thaksin Shinawatra ,
Yingluck’s brother. The 99-member assembly has 180 days to write
a new draft, spokesman Prompong Nopparit said by phone
yesterday.  Similar moves by the party’s allies in 2008 sparked violent
street protests by Thaksin’s opponents that shut down parts of
Bangkok and culminated in the seizure of the city’s airports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at  
 dboey@bloomberg.net  