-- Air India Boosts Claim for Boeing Compensation on 787 Delay to $1 Billion
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-02-09T21:49:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/air-india-boosts-demand-for-boeing-787-delay-claim-to-1-billion.html
Air India Ltd. (AIND)  increased its demands
for compensation from  Boeing Co. (BA)  to about $1 billion following
the planemaker’s delays in delivering new 787 Dreamliners, an
India civil-aviation ministry official said in  New Delhi .  The talks won’t affect deliveries, and there’s room to
negotiate until all 27 Dreamliners on order have been handed
over to the state-owned airline, said the official, who asked
not to be identified citing government policy. Boeing, based in
 Chicago , declined to comment.  Air India had said in August 2010 that it would seek $840
million from Boeing, whose new 787 hadn’t yet entered service at
that point. The carrier’s order would be valued at about $5.7
billion, before traditional discounts off the plane’s average
list price of $211 million. The Dreamliner was 3-1/2 years late
when it began passenger service in November, after seven delays
related to new materials and manufacturing processes used.  “I might believe $300 million if all 27 planes were all
very late, but $1 billion seems pretty dreamy” for a
compensation payment, said Joe Campbell, an analyst with
 Barclays Capital  in  New York .  Boeing has said it’s still in negotiations with customers
over the delays, which forced some airlines to revise route
plans or order other models to fill the delivery gap.  Boeing repeated in a Feb. 9 filing that it plans to build
10 Dreamliners a month by the end of 2013 as it works off a
backlog of more than 800 orders for the model. The company said
it will reach a delivery rate of 10 a month by early 2014.  “The scale and duration of the 787 program is such that
relatively minor changes in assumptions or variables could have
a material effect on our reported results in any period if the
program is determined to have a reach-forward loss,” Boeing
said. The model has a low single-digit profit margin, it said.  Air India ’s compensation demand includes $145 million in
the form of liquidated damages as part of the sale agreement,
the person said. The airline will probably receive its first 787
this month, an Air India official said Feb. 3.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  