-- Akamai Shares Jump as Fourth-Quarter Sales Top Analyst Estimates
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-02-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/akamai-shares-jump-as-fourth-quarter-sales-top-analyst-estimates.html
Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM) , the
operator of a server network that lets businesses speed data
delivery, rose in extended trading after quarterly sales and
profit topped estimates, boosted by holiday online shopping.  The  shares  jumped as much as 14 percent to $39.40 in late
trading yesterday following the report. They had gained 2.4
percent to $34.44 at the close in  New York . The  stock  has
climbed 6.7 percent this year.  Akamai, whose customers include  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , is benefiting
from rising demand for its services as companies seek ways to
push data-heavy digital content, such as videos, around the
world more quickly. A surge in Web shopping bolstered Akamai’s
results during the holiday season, said Mark Kelleher, an
analyst at Dougherty & Co. in  Boston .  “They are at the core of the Internet,” Kelleher said.
“Anything that moves across the Internet they see and they have
the ability to help, to facilitate.”  Fourth-quarter revenue climbed 14 percent to $323.7
million, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based  company  said in a
statement yesterday. That surpassed the $311.7 million average
 analyst  estimate compiled by Bloomberg. Profit excluding some
costs was 45 cents a share, exceeding the 40-cent average
projection.  Online retail spending during the fourth quarter  surged  14
percent to $49.7 billion, according to researcher  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)   New Digital Services  Akamai also offers newer services such as security and
digital-rights management. The company said in December it was
buying closely held Cotendo, which was emerging as a bigger
threat to the new services, Kelleher said.  Net income in the fourth quarter increased to $60.1
million, or 33 cents a share, from $52.5 million, or 27 cents, a
year earlier, the company said.  First-quarter revenue is forecast to be $305 million to
$313 million, and profit before certain costs will be 36 cents
to 39 cents a share, Akamai said on a conference call yesterday.
That compares with analysts’ average estimates of $304.6 million
in sales and 39 cents in profit.  Separately, Akamai said it named Senior Vice President
James Benson as its new chief financial officer, succeeding J. Donald Sherman, who is leaving the company to become president
and chief operating officer of software maker HubSpot Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  