-- Aldar, Sorouh Rise Before Full-Year Earnings: Abu Dhabi Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-02-09T12:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/aldar-sorouh-rise-before-full-year-earnings-abu-dhabi-mover.html
Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  and  Sorouh Real
Estate Co. (SOROUH)  led gains in  Abu Dhabi ’s real estate stocks on
investor speculation the emirate’s biggest developers may next
week report improved full-year results.  Aldar, the biggest developer in Abu Dhabi, advanced 3.2
percent, the most since Feb. 5, to 97 fils, at the 2 p.m. close
in the emirate. Sorouh, the second largest, jumped 3.4 percent
to 92 fils, the highest since Dec. 11. The stocks were  the most
traded  in Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI) , which rose 0.1 percent.
The  ADX Real Estate Index (ADRE)  advanced 3.1 percent.  Aldar, which obtained 16.8 billion dirhams ($4.6 billion)
from Abu Dhabi’s government by selling assets in December,  may
post  a 2011 profit of 494 million dirhams after a loss of 2.4
billion dirhams the year earlier, according to the mean estimate
of eight analysts on Bloomberg. Sorouh, whose shares have
slumped  33 percent  in the past year, may report next week full-
year profit almost tripled to 379 million dirhams, according to
the  mean estimate  of six analysts on Bloomberg.  “Sentiment for real-estate stocks has improved slightly as
soon to-be-announced earnings are expected to be substantially
better for both Aldar and Sorouh,” said Ziad Dabbas, a
financial analyst at  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC , the United
Arab Emirates’ second-biggest bank by assets. “We are seeing
some foreign flows into the stocks as interest has been
renewed.”  Guggenheim  Abu Dhabi, the oil-rich emirate transforming itself into a
business and cultural hub, plans to resume projects including
branches of the Louvre and Guggenheim museums after reviewing
their viability, the government said in January. The executive
council approved the building of 13,150 homes for  United Arab
Emirates  citizens in North Al Wathba. Another 7,608 villas are
expected to be completed in 2012 and handed to the government.  Six  analysts  recommend investors buy Aldar shares, three
say hold and four have a sell rating, according to Bloomberg
data. Ten  analysts  recommend buying the shares of Sorouh, four
holding them and one selling them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  