-- Alibaba Suspended as Buyback of Yahoo Stake Looms With Loan
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-02-09T06:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/alibaba-com-suspended-in-hong-kong-pending-statement-on-parent.html
Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688)  suspended its shares
from trading in Hong Kong as the company prepares a statement
about a transaction involving its parent, which is raising about
$3 billion to buy back stock held by  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)   The statement, to address speculation about an unspecified
deal involving the parent, may be “potentially price
sensitive,” Alibaba.com said in a filing to the Hong Kong stock
exchange today.  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. (ALIBABZ) , China’s biggest e-
commerce company, owns more than 70 percent of Alibaba.com.  Parent Alibaba Group wants to finalize terms of a loan of
about $3 billion by the end of this week for a potential buyback
of shares held by Yahoo, a person familiar with the matter said
this week. Yahoo said Feb. 7 it is “devoting significant
resources” to talks that may lead to the sale of its Asian
assets, valued at more than $10 billion.  “The suspension indicates the discussions on the
transaction with Yahoo have reached a certain stage,” said
Kelvin Ho, who rates Alibaba.com shares “hold” at Yuanta
Securities in  Hong Kong . “The likelihood of a deal has
increased.”  Julie Huang, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman at Alibaba.com,
declined to comment on the trading halt today. The company rose
5.5 percent in Hong Kong yesterday, the most since Nov. 22.  Yahoo Board  Yahoo is the biggest shareholder in closely held Alibaba
Group with a stake of about 40 percent and sold its stake in
Alibaba.com in 2009.  Yahoo this week added two new board members and said
Chairman Roy Bostock is among five directors who won’t stand for
re-election this year. The shakeup may prompt an increased
effort by Yahoo to sell its Asian investments, which include
stakes in Alibaba Group and  Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689) ,  Herman Leung , an
analyst with Susquehanna International Group in  San Francisco ,
has said.  The value of those assets is about $11.5 billion, said
 Sameet Sinha , an analyst at B. Riley & Co. in San Francisco. The
current board may aim to announce a deal to sell the assets
before Yahoo’s annual shareholders’ meeting, he said.  Shares of Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo fell 0.3 percent
to $15.78 in New York yesterday.  Yahoo is considering cutting its stake in Alibaba Group to
about 15 percent, two people briefed on the matter told
Bloomberg News in December.  Bostock’s departure came a few weeks after co-founder Jerry Yang severed ties with Yahoo, including leaving the boards of
Yahoo  Japan  and Alibaba Group. In January, Yahoo hired Scott Thompson as CEO to replace  Carol Bartz , who was ousted in
September.  Alibaba (ALIBABZ)  stepped up efforts to buy back the stake after the
departure of Bartz, who had opposed a sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  