-- American Superconductor Drops on Wider Loss, Lower Forecast
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-02-09T21:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/american-superconductor-s-loss-widens-as-sales-fall-43-percent.html
American Superconductor Corp. (AMSC) , a U.S.
maker of wind-turbine parts, fell the most in more than two
months after reporting a wider loss in its fiscal third-quarter
and lowering its forecast.  AMSC fell 7.6 percent to $5.57 at the close in New York,
the biggest decline since Nov. 21. Net loss for the three months
ended Dec. 31 increased to $26.3 million, or 52 cents a share,
from $18.2 million, or 38 cents, a year earlier, the Devens,
Massachusetts-based company said today in a statement. Sales
fell 43 percent to $18.1 million.  Fourth-quarter revenue is expected to exceed $27 million,
AMSC said. That’s short of the figure the company provided
during an earnings call with analysts in November, when it said
sales would surpass $15 million in the third quarter and then
“double going into the fourth quarter.”  “The fiscal fourth quarter looks modestly disappointing,
at about $27 million, when they said it would be at least $30
million,” Carter Driscoll, a Capstone Investments analyst in
Miami who rates the shares a “hold,” said by telephone today.  The company expects a net loss of 47 cents a share in its
fiscal fourth quarter, 10 cents more than the average of eight
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sinovel Suit  About $6.5 million of the third-quarter loss was due to the
company’s lawsuit against Sinovel Wind Group Co., formerly its
largest customer, and for costs “related to the  workforce
reduction  that was announced in November,” the company said in
the statement.  “The organizational changes we have made provide us with
confidence that we will post sequential growth and will reduce
our cash usage in the fourth fiscal quarter,” Chief Executive
Officer Daniel McGahn said in the statement.  The company said it has sufficient cash to fund its
operations for at least 12 months.  The U.S. supplier contends that Beijing-based Sinovel,
 China ’s largest turbine maker, is illegally using its
intellectual property. A former AMSC employee pleaded guilty to
charges including economic espionage in an Austrian court in
September and said Sinovel paid him to share proprietary
information.  Sinovel stopped accepting or paying for contracted
shipments March 31.  AMSC said Feb. 6 it’s appealing a decision by a Chinese
court to dismiss a lawsuit against Sinovel. A court in Hainan
Province dismissed its claim for $200,000 in damages related to
copyright infringement, the smallest among three civil suits
seeking more than $1.2 billion from Sinovel.  “That’s a huge black box right now, knowing how that’s
going to proceed,” Driscoll said.  The Sinovel dispute interfered with AMSC’s bookkeeping and
the company failed last year to file its annual report on time
because it was reviewing revenue from Chinese contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  