-- America's Next Top Engineer: She Needs Your Role Models
-- B y   L i n d a   K e k e l i s
-- 2012-02-09T13:54:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/america-s-next-top-engineer-she-needs-your-role-models.html
     Imagine the world in 2030, more resource-constrained than
ever—but then suddenly benefitting from a breakthrough
approach to harnessing  wind energy . What if the person capable
of hatching that innovation is, today, a middle-school girl in
a village in  Ecuador ? Will it happen? Or think closer to home:
If the cure for cystic fibrosis is just waiting in the mind of
a girl in your community, will it ever see the light of day?  If we could only put the same level of resources into
inspiring girls in science, technology, engineering, and
mathematics (STEM) that we do into
discovering America's Next Top Model, the chance wouldn't seem
so remote. At the very least, the proportion of STEM
professionals who are female—currently, in engineering, a
paltry 11 percent—would grow.  It's no secret that we need more women in STEM. Our
economy's major employers compete for the female graduates we
do produce. So what's holding back the supply?  Some people look at
the gender composition of graduating classes and conclude that
girls just aren't as interested as boys are in engineering. If
girls don't want to be computer scientists when they grow
up, some ask, isn't that their choice? But I have the proof
that they do, under the right circumstances. When the bell
rings at the end of the day at schools in Oakland, CA I see a
wave of girls heading for after-school programs, eager to
stick around and do science.  Meet the girls participating in Techbridge. They tinker
and use tools, and take apart things like lawnmower engines
and hairdryers to learn how they work. They build their own
green houses and learn about renewable energy. They make solar
night lights, and in doing so learn to solder. And while it
isn't their intention when they start, they also make
mistakes—and learn to appreciate how mistakes are part of the
process. They develop the confidence to persevere. As they
team up for design challenges, they especially like to learn
in the company of other girls.  Techbridge is a nonprofit organization based in
Oakland, CA, whose mission is to promote girls' interest and
skills in science, technology, and engineering. We do this
through the programs we run, and by developing resources for
others—teachers, role models, families, and partners like
the Girl Scouts. We know the first step is engagement, letting
girls have fun with the projects we
introduce. Research shows that an early interest in science or
engineering is a better indicator of the likelihood of
pursuing a career in these fields than grades. But we can't
stop there. For a girl to translate an early interest into a
passion for becoming a mechanical engineer or biotech
entrepreneur, she also needs early exposure to women who hold
such careers. We need to provide girls with role models.  Techbridge can't do that alone—role models are busy
working in places that have recognized and snapped up their
talent. We can do it, however, with partners from industry.
When major employers not only provide funding for our
after-school programs but also support employee
outreach, girls gain access to role models like Chevron
geologists, Google programmers, and <a
href=" http://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/corporate-responsibility/intel-foundation.html ">Intel
</a>engineers—all of whom have visited our after-school programs
and led activities that offer a glimpse into their careers.  Role models make the difference by connecting with our
girls on a personal level and sharing their passion and the
personal stories of how they came to be the professionals they
are. They help dispel stereotypes about engineering and who
can be a computer scientist. Their enthusiasm conveys that
these careers are personally and professionally rewarding. The
work they describe shows that as a scientist or engineer you
can make the world a better
place—an aspiration for many girls.  We have to go out of our way to provide such models
because too few girls have made their way into technical
fields in the past. We can't count on a girl's having a STEM
role model already in the women she knows well—her
mother, relatives, and neighbors. When a girl meets a woman
succeeding in STEM, it expands the range of careers she
considers as she imagines her own future.  We know it works. Last
year's evaluation of Techbridge's impact showed increases in
participating girls' skills and confidence. Now, 90 percent of
them believe engineering is a good career for women, and 89
percent think teamwork is good for solving problems. And guess
how many are more interested than they had been in working in
science, technology, and engineering? No fewer than 83
percent.  Results like this are what keep us working energetically
to build corporate partnerships—even when we experience the
occasional dispiriting setback. We've seen, for example, a
corporate field trip that we had perfected over the years
suspended as priorities there changed. In a downturn-related
layoff, our liaison to another company lost her job. Some of
the best role models we've attracted, and many we've invested
to develop (because role modeling is a skill built by
training, too) find it difficult in this tough economy to
leave their workplaces and volunteer in afternoon programs.  The companies most likely to stay the course are those
who value the payback in the long term. They know that the
middle schoolers who come to their site are the next
generation of workers, and that among them may be the one
whose idea will revolutionize their business.  If your organization is an employer of
science, engineering, and technology talent, please do what
you can to reach out and inspire a girl. Do it by
supporting programs like Techbridge that offer STEM
programming in and out of school. But also do it by
encouraging the women on your staff to be role models—to visit
a classroom or host a field trip. Show that you value outreach
by providing support and training for it, and even better, by
mentoring a girl yourself. Not only will you discover how much
students learn from role models and field trips, you'll
discover how your organization benefits in return. We hear
from role models how much their outreach deepens their sense
of connection to their job, their staff, and their field.
Corporate recruiters tell us
that top talent is more attracted to organizations that
believe in workers getting involved and giving back to their
community.  Returns like this are hard to quantify, but we never hear
from corporate partners that they aren't worth the investment.
Girls who go through Techbridge programs have a habit of
returning years later and telling us how a role model they met
in middle school, or a field trip in high school, turned them
on to engineering. When they faced a roadblock—a challenging
class, a less than supportive study group —they remembered
what a role model taught them. And they didn't give up.  Dr. Linda Kekelis is Executive Director
at Techbridge, which empowers girls by inspiring them in
science, technology, and engineering. The program has served
over 10,000 girls in after-school and summer programs in the
San Francisco Bay Area and nationally through partnerships
with Girl Scout councils and other girl-serving groups. 