-- American Bankers Prove Inferior to Canada Bankers Led by Toronto-Dominion
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-02-09T05:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/american-banks-prove-inferior-to-canadian-banks-led-by-td.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  Chief Executive
Officer  Edmund Clark  faced investor doubts when he announced in
2004 he was buying a U.S. consumer lender, challenging larger
rivals such as  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  in the world’s largest
financial market.  “Every analyst said ‘You see, another dumb Canadian trying
to go into the U.S.,” Clark said yesterday in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. “They don’t know how to
do it. They don’t have the guts. They’re too conservative.”  More than seven years later, Canada’s second-largest bank
is one of the 10 biggest lenders in the U.S. by assets, and may
soon have the third-most branches in  New York City , a banking
market almost as big as Canada’s.  By sticking to consumer lending and avoiding high-risk
subprime loans and structured products, the Canadian lender
posted profit of almost C$3 billion ($3 billion) in U.S.
consumer banking over the past three years, while bigger banks
such as Bank of America and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  required government
bailouts.  “When we went into the United States, we refused to do
subprime lending,” Clark said. “We said, ‘I don’t care what
the spreads are, we are not going to do that.’”  Shareholders have rewarded Clark’s ability to weather the
financial crisis while expanding earnings on both sides of the
border. Toronto-Dominion now has more branches in the U.S. than
in Canada. It’s also one of the only banks with an Aaa credit
 rating  from Moody’s Investors Service.  Shares Rally  Toronto-Dominion  shares  have gained 42 percent in the five
years ended Dec. 31, 2011. That’s the best performance among
Canada’s five largest banks over that period, and compares with
a drop of 87 percent for Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of
America.  “We have had a philosophical view all along that people
were changing banks from being built around customers and
clients, to being built around traders,” said Clark, 64. “And
that was not a good thing for society and it wasn’t a good thing
in the end for the banking system.”  The lender posted record annual  profit  in 2011 of C$6.05
billion, or C$6.43 a share, according to International Financial
Reporting Standards. Since Clark became  CEO  in December 2002,
Toronto-Dominion has increased earnings 18 percent on a
compounded annual basis.  Bank of America CEO  Brian T. Moynihan , 52, has spent the
last two years atoning for ill-fated  acquisitions  made by his
predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis . The 2008 takeover of Countrywide
Financial Corp., the biggest home lender during the U.S. housing
bubble, saddled the firm with so many liabilities from shoddy
mortgages that last year it weighed putting the unit into
bankruptcy.  Avoiding Subprime  Jerry Dubrowski, a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment.  Toronto-Dominion and other Canadian lenders avoided
subprime lending and structured products during the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression.  Canada ’s banking
system has been ranked the world’s soundest for four straight
years by the  World Economic Forum , and avoided government
bailouts.  “I’m a big believer that you should run an institution and
become capable of understanding any part of the institution that
you run,” Clark said. “The moment you’re saying ‘No, no, no,
but I have a third vice president that does,’ look out. I like
to keep institutions a little narrow in their focus.”  TD’s narrow focus began in August 2004, when the lender
announced it would buy 51 percent of Portland, Maine-based
Banknorth Group Inc. for $3.5 billion.  TD Ameritrade  A year later, the bank sold TD Waterhouse to  TD Ameritrade
Holding Corp. (AMTD) , making it the largest  shareholder  in the Omaha,
Nebraska-based discount brokerage.  By 2007, Toronto-Dominion had acquired the rest of
Banknorth for $3.19 billion. In March 2008, the bank bought
 Cherry Hill , New Jersey-based Commerce Bancorp for about $8.33
billion. Toronto-Dominion added South Financial Group Inc. for
$191.6 million and now has about 160 branches in Florida.  “You look eight years ago, TD really had no U.S. retail
banking presence,” said  John Aiken , an analyst at Barclays
Capital Inc. in Toronto. He rated Toronto-Dominion shares
“overweight/neutral.” “Fast forward to today and they’re a
top-10 lender in the U.S., which is hugely impressive.”  U.S Southeast  Toronto-Dominion purchased auto lender Chrysler Financial
Corp. from Cerberus Capital Management LP in 2010 for about $6.3
billion. Clark said a year ago that the bank will become a top-
10 auto lender in the U.S. within three to four years.  The U.S. Southeast bore much of the brunt of the financial
crisis as subprime lending and falling home prices roiled
housing markets in the area.  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) , Alabama’s largest bank, hasn’t
posted an annual profit since 2007. The Birmingham-based bank
wrote off more than $3 billion in loans during the financial
crisis, mostly tied to developers, home builders and mortgage
borrowers in Georgia and Florida. Its shares have fallen about
84 percent since 2007.  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) , based in Atlanta and the 10th-largest
U.S. lender by assets, posted six consecutive quarterly losses
from 2008 to 2010 as borrowers in the Southeastern real estate
market struggled to keep up with loan payments.  Florida Expansion  Tim Deighton , a spokesman for Regions, declined to comment.
 Michael McCoy , a spokesman for SunTrust, didn’t immediately
respond to messages seeking comment.  Toronto-Dominion was said to be in discussions to buy
Florida lender BankUnited Inc. last month before the bank
decided to remain independent, according to people with
knowledge of the situation. Clark declined to comment on the
potential sale, and said the bank doesn’t need acquisitions to
grow.  The  U.S. economy  is showing signs of a turnaround, he said.  “There is a mood shift here,” he said. “Consumers are
more optimistic, businesses are more optimistic.”  The bank’s next goal is to become a “top three” bank in
 New York , Clark said. He said the city’s deposit base is about
$750 billion, compared with C$1 trillion for all of Canada.
Toronto-Dominion needs to add 60 or 70 more branches to become
third largest in the city, Clark said.  “We are now the fifth-largest bank in greater New York
City and we’ve set a goal to be the third largest,” Clark said.
“So over a 15-year period, we’ll go from zero to third
largest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scanlan  at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 