-- Man-Eating Lion, Mystery Trains Captivate Richter: Review
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-02-09T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/man-eating-lion-mystery-trains-captivate-richter-review.html
Gerhard Richter begs to differ with
the curators at Dresden’s  Lipsiusbau , who are exhibiting his
“Atlas,” an archive of his preparation work for paintings.  On a panel in the exhibition, the museum proclaims
“Atlas” as “an autonomous artwork in its own right.”  “Nah,” Richter said at a news conference in the same
room. “It might be interesting, but it’s not art, it’s just
documentation. I’m just grateful that someone is keeping all
this stuff safe. These are things that it would be a pity to
throw away but are not good enough to sell.”  Germany ’s best-known artist turns 80 today and the Dresden
exhibition is one of several in his honor this year. Though
unlikely to attract as many visitors as the major retrospective
opening at Berlin’s  Neue Nationalgalerie  on Feb. 12, it offers a
fascinating counterpoint for enthusiasts.  “Atlas” is an insight into the artist’s preoccupations
and inspirations -- a glimpse at the history and geography of a
creative mind. Whether or not it is art is a matter of
perception and perhaps not so important.  The collection is made up of more than 8,000 items --
private family snaps, historical photographs, sketches,
clippings from magazines and collages, all accumulated over 50
years and organized in orderly frames by the artist. He
continues to add to it.  The name “Atlas” is a good one, Richter said. He sees the
collection as a kind of road map. “I am trying to orientate
myself and find order in this chaos,” he said.  Mountains, Corpses  Snaps of his wife breast-feeding feature alongside photos
of snowy Swiss mountain scenes; there are adverts cut from
lifestyle magazines and terrible newspaper images of emaciated
corpses piled up in Nazi concentration camps.  The sublime mixes with the grotesque and bizarre.
Photographs of beautiful landscapes and cloudscapes rub
shoulders with some surprisingly frank 1960s pornography images
in black and white. An article cut out of Stern magazine in 1974
details the grisly death of a Frenchman mauled by lions in a
safari park -- complete with photos taken by fellow
holidaymakers.  Some immediately evoke the resulting artworks -- a series
of snaps of a wine bottle and apples, candles, skulls, two
blurry cars whizzing by in black and white in the background of
an advert; an image of a woman descending a staircase in a
shimmering, metallic dress. Some of the photos are out of focus
-- blurry like many of Richter’s paintings.  Train-Spotting  Others keep their secrets. There are dozens of snaps of
trains and railway lines and embankments. The carriages and
engines are often half-hidden behind trees as though on furtive
and shameful missions. What captured Richter’s interest here?
This is no harmless train-spotting urge. Something seems to link
these snaps with Holocaust images earlier in the display, which
include pictures of Jews being herded into carriages.  It’s intriguing to see that, in addition to painting
photographs, Richter photographed paint -- perhaps not
surprising for someone who has spent much of his career
exploring the relationship between the two media. The paint in
those luscious photos of his color tests looks fresher, richer
and glossier than it ever could on the canvas.  ‘The Destroyer’  What you won’t find in the “Atlas” are the photographs of
paintings Richter has destroyed over the years, kept in a
Dresden archive. Under the headline “The Destroyer,” the
Spiegel magazine last week published photographs of the lost
works, including a black-and-white 1962 painting of  Adolf Hitler 
in rabble-rousing mode.  The artist shredded the work after showing it just once,
saying it was “too spectacular,” according to Spiegel, which
pointed out that this painting would now be worth millions.  That, of course, is just one side of the story. If Richter
weren’t such a tough self-critic, then none of his paintings
would be as valuable as they are. Last year, an abstract work
from 1997 fetched $20.8 million at auction, a record.  At 80, Richter said, the pace of his work may have slowed a
little, though he still goes to the studio every day.  “What else would I do?” he asked.  (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 