-- Lance Armstrong Returns to Pro Triathlon to Compete in World Championship
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-02-09T21:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/lance-armstrong-returns-to-pro-triathlon-to-compete-in-world-championship.html
Lance Armstrong , the seven-time
winner of cycling’s  Tour de France , will compete in 70.3-mile
triathlons and a full 140.6-mile one to try to qualify for the
sport’s world championship.  The 40-year-old Armstrong, who retired from professional
cycling in February 2011 to focus on his Livestrong cancer
charity, will make his professional return to triathlon at the
Ironman Panama 70.3 race on Feb. 12, according to a press
release issued by Livestrong.  “Lance is a fierce competitor and his involvement with
Ironman and Ironman 70.3 is good for triathlon,” Andrew
Messick, chief executive officer of World Triathlon Corp., said
in a statement.  World Triathlon, which owns the Ironman brand, disclosed
Armstrong’s participation in its events as part of a  partnership 
with Livestrong. With the agreement, Ironman will be a sponsor
of the charity and auction four amateur slots for its world
championship, with proceeds going to the charity.  After this weekend’s race in  Panama  City, Panama, which
consists of a 1.2-mile swim, a 56-mile bike ride and a 13.1-mile
run, Armstrong will compete in 70.3-mile half Ironman events in
 Texas  in April,  Florida  in May, and Hawaii on June 2. He will
then race a 140.6-mile full Ironman event on June 24 in Nice,
France, in his quest to earn enough points to qualify for the
Ironman World Championships in Hawaii on Oct. 13.  Triathlon History  Armstrong competed as a professional triathlete at age 18
before focusing on cycling. He finished fifth in the Xterra USA
Championship off-road triathlon in Utah in September, before
committing to the Ironman races.  He won the Tour de  France , cycling’s most prestigious
event, each year from 1999 to 2005 after surviving testicular
cancer that had spread to his brain and lungs.  On Feb. 4, the U.S. attorney in  Los Angeles  ended a
criminal drug probe involving Armstrong and his professional
bicycle racing team without filing charges.  The joint investigation with special agents of the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration, the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  and the U.S. Postal Service looked into doping
allegations involving the cycling champion and his team.  The U.S. Anti-Doping Agency, the official anti-doping
agency for Olympic sports in the U.S., is continuing its
investigation of Armstrong and the World Anti-Doping Agency
asked this week for federal authorities to turn over any
evidence they uncovered.  Armstrong has denied using banned performance-enhancing
drugs and has passed almost 500 tests over 20 years of
competition,  Mark Fabiani , his attorney, has said.  His Austin, Texas-based Livestrong charity has raised more
than $325 million, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  