-- Manufacturing Output Rose More Than Economists Estimated During December
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-02-09T10:59:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/manufacturing-output-in-u-k-climbs-more-than-estimated-as-economy-gains.html
U.K.  manufacturing  jumped in December
by five times as much as economists forecast and the total trade
deficit shrank to the smallest since 2003, pointing to signs of
economic strength at the end of last year.  Factory output  increased 1 percent from the previous month,
the  Office for National Statistics  said today in London.
Economists forecast a 0.2 percent increase, according to the
median of 25 predictions in a Bloomberg News survey. The trade
 gap in goods and services  narrowed by more than half to 1.11
billion pounds ($1.7 billion), the lowest since April 2003.  The reports point to an improving economy at the end of a
quarter when the economy shrank 0.2 percent. While indexes of
services, manufacturing and construction all showed growth in
January, the Bank of England may still expand stimulus today to
protect Britain from Europe’s debt crisis.  The data “give hope that the first-quarter outturn will be
better than people even feared just a few weeks ago,”  George Buckley , chief U.K. economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London,
said in an interview. Still, “the recovery is very fragile.
There’s huge event risk from Europe still in the mix.”  The  European Central Bank  will keep the benchmark  interest
rate  at a record-low 1 percent today, according to 55 of 57
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Two predict a cut to 0.75
percent. The decision will be announced at 1:45 p.m. in
Frankfurt and President  Mario Draghi  will then face questions on
the ECB’s possible role in helping Greece reduce its debt.  BOE Decision  The Bank of England will raise its target for  bond
purchases  to 325 billion pounds at noon today in  London ,
according to 34 of 50 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Fifteen
forecast a 75 billion-pound increase and one no change.  Out of 13 categories of U.K. manufacturing, four fell on
the month and nine rose, the statistics office said. Transport
equipment rose 3 percent and the manufacture of food, beverages
and tobacco increased 1.3 percent. Factory output, which
accounts for 10 percent of gross domestic product, fell 0.8
percent in the fourth quarter from the July-September period.  Overall  industrial output , which includes mines, utilities
and oil and gas and equals 15 percent of GDP, rose 0.5 percent
on the month. It fell 1.4 percent in the quarter, more than the
1.2 percent decline estimated in growth data last month. The ONS
said the revision would have a “minimal impact” on GDP.  Trade Gap  Separate data showed the  goods-trade deficit  narrowed to
7.11 billion pounds in December from 8.91 billion pounds the
previous month, as imports plunged 3.6 percent, outpacing a 0.4
percent drop in exports. The  trade balance  in services stayed in
surplus at 6 billion pounds, little changed from November.  A Treasury spokesman said in an e-mailed statement that the
reports are positive and show signs of rebalancing in the U.K.
economy.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  says Britain needs
a shift away from  consumer spending  toward net trade to drive
economic growth.  The data do show “some genuinely encouraging news on the
U.K. economy, with manufacturing output rebounding,”  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global Insight in London, said in e-
mailed notes. Still, “the trade statistics have little real
evidence of underlying marked improvement, and doubts persist
that stronger exports can boost overall growth and help the U.K.
economy to become more balanced.”  The British Chambers of Commerce said yesterday that an
increase in the central bank’s quantitative-easing program is
“necessary.”  ‘Critical Bulwark’  “It remains a critical bulwark for the U.K. financial
system and the wider economy,” BCC Chief Economist  David Kern 
said in a statement. “The challenges facing the U.K. economy
and the ongoing problems in the euro zone highlight the need to
sustain confidence.”  Elsewhere, data in  China  today showed inflation
unexpectedly accelerated in January on the boost to spending
from a weeklong holiday. That may limit room for monetary easing
as  Europe ’s debt crisis damps exports and the property market
cools. Consumer prices rose 4.5 percent from a year earlier.  Separately, Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said China’s
exports probably declined in January after a slowdown in foreign
trade in the second half of last year. The data are due
tomorrow, with analysts forecasting a 1.4 percent decline in
overseas shipments from a year earlier.  Also in Asia, Japan’s machinery orders fell at the
fastest pace in three months in December, the Cabinet Office
said in  Tokyo . Spending may rebound as post-earthquake
reconstruction work kicks in, and today’s report showed
companies forecasting a 2.3 percent increase in orders this
quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  