-- Manulife Posts Fourth-Quarter Loss on Interest-Rate Declines
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-02-09T21:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/manulife-has-fourth-quarter-loss-on-interest-rate-declines-1-.html
Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) ,  Canada ’s
largest insurer, reported a second straight quarterly loss as
low  interest rates  eroded investment returns. Chief Financial
Officer Michael Bell, 48, plans to leave the company.  The fourth-quarter net loss was C$69 million ($69.3
million), or 5 cents a share, compared with a year-earlier
profit of C$1.8 billion, or 96 cents, Toronto-based Manulife
said today in a statement.  Manulife said it recorded a charge of C$665 million related
to “low interest rates.” Falling rates reduce investment
income while increasing costs from obligations to clients who
bought guaranteed investment products.  “We would expect the impact of any future drop in interest
rates to be less, now that we’ve done so much hedging,” Bell
said today in a telephone interview. “Having said that, we’re
not immune to further drops in interest rates.”  Bell, who was named CFO in June 2009, is returning to
Philadelphia, where his family moved in June 2010. “We have
come to a mutual arrangement regarding his departure,” Chief
Executive Officer Donald Guloien said in the statement. The
company is searching for a replacement.  “This is far from a positive as Michael had shown a very
firm grasp on the company’s operations,” said  John Aiken , an
analyst at  Barclays Capital  in Toronto. Bell will be “difficult
to replace,” he said.  Manulife was expected to have a net loss of 10 cents a
share, according to the average  estimate  of 10 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Manulife fell 1.9 percent to C$11.88 at 4 p.m. in Toronto
trading. The shares had gained 12 percent this year before
today, the sixth-best performer on the 42-company  S&P/TSX
Financials Index (STFINL) .  Less Sensitive  Guloien said the insurer restructured its U.S. annuity
business and completed a “repositioning” of its product mix,
part of a plan to make the company less sensitive to stock-
market swings.  Profit from Canada declined 51 percent to C$241 million
because of equity market and interest rate declines. Manulife’s
U.S. insurance business climbed 6.1 percent to C$434 million,
while its U.S. wealth management business, which includes
Boston-based John Hancock Financial, fell 89 percent to C$76
million.  “Wealth-management operations are still in turnaround
mode,” said Barclays’s Aiken.  Profit from  Asia  declined 31 percent to C$285 million
because of lower investment-related gains compared to the year-
earlier period.  Manulife is the first of Canada’s four main insurers to
report fourth-quarter results. Great-West Life Inc., Canada’s
second-largest insurer, reported that profit rose 7.5 percent to
C$500 million, or 52 cents a share.  Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF)  is scheduled to release results
Feb. 15, followed by Industrial Alliance Insurance and Financial
Services Inc. on Feb. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 