-- Apple Loses Second Bid to Ban German Sales of Samsung’s Galaxy Tab 10.1N
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-02-09T12:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/apple-loses-second-bid-to-ban-german-sales-of-samsung-s-galaxy-tab-10-1n.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPad and
iPhone, for the second time failed to win a ban on sales of
 Samsung Electronics (005930)  Co.’s Galaxy 10.1N from a German court.  The Dusseldorf Regional Court rejected the bid for an
emergency ruling today in a case where Apple invoked a European
design right. Apple last week lost a similar attempt over a
technology patent in a Munich court.  A Dusseldorf appeals court last week upheld Apple’s request
to ban sales of the Galaxy Tab 10.1, the predecessor model,
which the company had won in the same lower court that rejected
today’s bid. Samsung began selling the Galaxy Tab 10.1N, a
revised version, in  Germany  last year to get around that ban.
Samsung lost two patent rulings against its rival in a Mannheim
court last month.  “The Galaxy Tab 10.1N now sufficiently differs from the
form Apple has registered as a design right,” the court said in
a statement. “Apple’s iPads and Samsung’s Galaxy Tab 10.1N now
are two competing products of equal value.”  The legal battle between Cupertino, California-based Apple
and its closest competitor in tablet computers is intensifying
as an increasing number of consumers use tablets and smartphones
to visit websites, play games and download music. More patent
rulings between the two are scheduled for the coming weeks.  Remains on Sale  Samsung said the ruling affirms its position that the
Galaxy Tab 10.1N is distinctive and doesn’t infringe the rights
asserted by Apple. The Galaxy Tab 10.1N remains available to
consumers in Germany, Samsung said.  Apple spokesman Alan Hely declined to comment on today’s
ruling and referred to the company’s earlier statement that
Samsung is “blatantly” copying the iPhone and iPad.  The judges in today’s case said the Galaxy 10.1N is no
longer a “quasi-identical copy” of the iPad. They rejected the
claim that Samsung is exploiting the reputation Apple’s products
have earned. The new design with a broader frame on the side as
well as loud speakers and Samsung’s name tag on the front are
enough to distinguish the products, the court said.  “It’s odd to claim that buyers are fooled into thinking
they buy an Apple product if they get the Samsung device,” said
Deputy Presiding Judge Ulrike Pastohr. “You don’t buy consumer
electronics like you would buy butter in a supermarket, you’re
much more attentive.”  Today’s case is: LG Dusseldorf, 14c O 292/11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Dusseldorf via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  