-- Mark Cuban Faces SEC Deposition in Lawsuit
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 2012-02-10T16:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/mark-cuban-ordered-to-appear-at-sec-tomorrow-for-deposition.html
Mark Cuban , the billionaire owner of
the  Dallas  Mavericks basketball team, appeared at the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission today to face questions
related to the agency’s insider-trading lawsuit against him.  Cuban, 53, has been fighting for more than three years
against SEC claims that he traded on confidential information
when he sold his stake in Mamma.com, a Canadian Internet search
company now known as Copernic Inc., just before it announced a
private placement of shares. He arrived at the SEC’s offices in
 Fort Worth , Texas, at 8:45 a.m. with his attorney Stephen Best
following a Jan. 13 court order to appear for the deposition.  In a 2008 lawsuit, the SEC claimed Guy Faure, then chief
executive officer of Mamma.com, told Cuban in a 2004 phone call
about plans for a private share offering. Cuban sold shares
ahead of the deal, avoiding $750,000 in losses after the
offering diluted his holdings, the SEC said.  The agency claims that Cuban agreed with Faure at the
beginning of their call to keep the information confidential and
told the CEO after learning details of the plan, “Well, now I’m
screwed. I can’t sell.”  U.S. District Judge Sidney Fitzwater threw out the case in
July 2009, ruling that Cuban didn’t agree not to trade on the
information, only to keep it confidential.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New Orleans  overturned
Fitzwater’s decision, finding the SEC’s allegations “provide
more than a plausible basis to find that the understanding
between the CEO and Cuban was that he was not to trade.”  ‘Egregious Acts’  Cuban has accused the SEC staff of engaging in “egregious
acts of misconduct” in their probe of his trades. The SEC’s
inspector general investigated Cuban’s allegations and issued a
report last year saying they were unfounded.  When asked today how long the questioning would last, Cuban
smiled and said, “23 days, it’ll be 23 days.” He and Best
declined to comment further on the deposition.  The case is  Securities and Exchange Commission v. Cuban,
08-cv-2050, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Texas 
(Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  