-- Hartford’s CEO McGee Resists Demands From Wall Street to Break Up Insurer
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-02-09T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/hartford-s-ceo-mcgee-resists-demands-from-wall-street-to-break-up-insurer.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG)  Chief Executive Officer  Liam McGee , the ex-banker hired in
2009 to restore profits, is resisting renewed pressure from  Wall
Street  to split apart the 201-year-old insurer.  McGee, 57, challenged the assumptions yesterday of
Christopher Giovanni, a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst, about
how much investors could gain by separating Hartford’s life-
insurance and property-casualty businesses. That drew a rebuke
from his biggest investor, billionaire  John Paulson , who joined
the firm’s quarterly earnings conference call to endorse the
Goldman Sachs analysis and chide McGee for Hartford’s stock
decline.  “When you’ve got major shareholders saying, ‘Do this,’
those are the owners of the company,” said  Meyer Shields , an
analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. “You have to make sure that
the steps you’re taking are maximizing shareholder value.”  Hartford dropped 39 percent in New York last year as McGee
struggled to boost returns by cutting jobs, selling a claims-
administration business and starting a share repurchase program.
Return on equity, a measure of how well the company invests
shareholder money, probably will be about  8 percent  in 2012,
Hartford said in a December investor presentation.  “We do not yet have visibility on how the company will
meaningfully improve its ROE profile,”  Jay Gelb , an analyst at
Barclays Plc, said yesterday in a report titled, “Breakup of
P&C and Life Units Faces Roadblocks.”  ‘Sense of Urgency’  McGee told Paulson he had “an incredible sense of
urgency” to make changes that would boost the  stock price .
Hartford, based in the Connecticut city of the same name, said
yesterday it had hired advisers to consider dividing its two
main businesses. The insurer concluded that the move probably
wouldn’t “create shareholder value,” McGee said on the call.  “It’s time for Hartford to take aggressive action and
deliver value to shareholders,” said Tamara Kravec, a managing
director at Hartford shareholder NWQ Investment Management Co.
“They have multiple avenues to unlock value. It takes time,”
she said in an interview.  NWQ held about 4.8 percent of Hartford as of Sept. 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Paulson & Co.’s stake
was about 8.7 percent, while State Street Corp. and  Germany ’s
Allianz SE each had holdings of more than 5 percent, according
to the data.  Hartford, founded in 1810, has the second worst price-to-
book value ratio in the 24-company  KBW Insurance Index (KIX) ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company trades at
about 41 percent of its book value, a measure of assets minus
liabilities, compared with 68 percent for  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and 96
percent for Travelers Cos. Genworth Financial Inc., at 27
percent, trades at the lowest ratio in the index.  Hartford jumped 7.6 percent to $20.58 yesterday.  Two Companies  The insurer could boost the value of the stock to $28.32 by
creating two separate companies, Giovanni said in a Jan. 9
report. The Goldman Sachs analysis estimated that a stand-alone
property-casualty company could be valued at about 1.2 times
book value, while the life business by itself would be valued at
about 0.25 times book value.  “Hartford needs to do something drastic,” Paulson told
McGee. “I think you need a better explanation of what you’re
going to do to enhance  shareholder value .”  Hartford cited its  credit ratings  and regulatory approvals
among the “challenges” to a split in a  slide presentation . The
firm said it has $6.8 billion of debt at the holding company
that, in the event of a split, would have to be passed to the
operating units. The  life-insurance  subsidiaries have “limited
capacity to generate statutory earnings” and can assume no more
than a third of that debt, Hartford said.  True Value  “We do not believe the current stock price reflects the
true value of the company,” McGee said. McGee wasn’t available
for an interview, said Shannon Lapierre, a spokeswoman for
Hartford.  McGee took over as CEO in October 2009, about four months
after his predecessor,  Ramani Ayer , fended off a calls for a
separation of the main businesses. In early 2009, a slump in
results from life insurance pushed the company into the $3.4
billion government rescue. McGee, a former executive at Bank of
America Corp., repaid the rescue in 2010.  Hartford’s  annual profit  fell 61 percent to $662 million
last year on costs from natural disasters, asbestos liabilities
and workers’ compensation claims, the company said on Feb. 7.
Fourth-quarter operating profit of 69 cents per share beat the
 average estimate  of analysts served by Bloomberg by 9 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  