-- Asia-U.S. Container Lines Seek $500 Annual Box Rate Increase
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/asia-u-s-container-lines-seek-500-annual-box-rate-increase.html
Container shipping lines will seek
to raise rates by at least $500 per 40-foot box for Asia-U.S.
West Coast cargos in upcoming annual contracts after price wars
and higher fuel costs caused the industry losses.  Carriers will also seek a $700 increase for other U.S.
points, said the Transpacific Stabilization Agreement in an e-
mailed statement late yesterday. The Oakland, California-based
group, representing 15 of the world’s largest lines, has limited
antitrust immunity to discuss rates and advise on yearly
shipping contracts, which generally start in about May.  The TSA members, who include  Maersk Line  and China Cosco
Holdings Co., also agreed to add a $300 per box increase
beginning March 15, following the successfully introduction of a
similar increase in January. The group last year delayed plans
to raise  rates  in the peak summer season as excess capacity and
the economic slowdown let customers find lines willing to offer
discounts.  “The erosion in transpacific rates during 2011 has been
well-documented and dramatic,” Brian M. Conrad, a director of
TSA, said in the statement.  Rate Recovery  The industry lost money last year after rates dropped
because container shipping lines had added too many ships in
anticipation of an economic recovery. TSA, which called the
increase “critical” to carriers, said its members will
consider further revenue and cost recovery initiatives later in
the year.  “If carriers adopt a marginal increase that only partially
offsets huge losses as costs continue to rise, the result is
another 18 months of losses,” Conrad said in the statement.
“This year in particular, rate recovery must be meaningful in
order to maintain service levels and, ultimately, carrier
viability.”  Other TSA members include Mediterranean Shipping Co., CMA
CGM SA and Hanjin Shipping Co.  The industry may have had a loss of $5.2 billion before
interest and taxes last year, and prospects for 2012 “could be
dire” if companies don’t take “a substantial amount of
tonnage” out of the market, London-based Drewry Shipping
Consultants Ltd. said in a Jan. 4 report.  Container lines have said in recent weeks that they plan to
raise prices on some routes. Maersk Line, which has a global
market share of about 16 percent, said Jan. 31 it will increase
the price it charges to transport a 20-foot container from  Asia 
to  Europe  by $775.  The container industry was under “severe pressure” last
year and “we still see an unhealthy balance between supply and
demand,” Michael Pram Rasmussen, chairman of Copenhagen-based
Maersk, said yesterday in the company’s employee newsletter.  Global freight rates dropped on average 25 percent last
year, according to RS Platou Markets AS. Prices fell the most on
Asia-to-Europe routes, where the decline was almost 60 percent,
the Oslo-based broker said in a Jan. 4 note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  