-- Stocks, Euro, Commodities Gain as Treasuries Fall on Greece Austerity Deal
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2012-02-09T21:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/asian-stocks-u-s-futures-drop-on-greece-s-lack-of-agreement-oil-climbs.html
Stocks and the euro rose, Treasuries
fell and commodities extended their longest rally of the year as
Greek politicians agreed on austerity plans needed to qualify
for international aid and U.S. jobless claims decreased.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  increased 0.2 percent to
close at a seven-month high of 1,351.95 at 4 p.m. in New York.
The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 6.51 points to 12,890.46,
the highest since May 2008. The euro strengthened 0.2 percent to
$1.3287, near a two-month high. Thirty-year Treasury yields
climbed to a three-month high following an auction. The S&P GSCI
Index of 24 commodities advanced for a fifth straight day as
industrial metals led gains and oil approached $100 a barrel.  Political leaders in  Athens  announced an agreement that may
clear the way for a deal to cut the nation’s debt and win its
second rescue in two years. European finance chiefs were set to
defer ratifying a 130 billion-euro ($173 billion) rescue for
Greece, pressing the government in Athens to put the newly
struck austerity plan into action.  “It looks like  Greece  is on a path to address its
issues,” Michael Finnegan, chief investment officer at
Principal Funds Inc. in  Des Moines ,  Iowa , said in a telephone
interview. His firm oversees $62.9 billion. “Everybody realizes
what needs to get done. Obviously there are political
challenges, but the consequences if they don’t are just too
severe.”  U.S. Stocks  Technology  shares rose 1 percent as a group to lead gains
among the 10 main industries in the  S&P 500 , while health-care,
utility and financial shares declined. Akamai Technologies Inc.,
the operator of a server network that lets businesses speed data
delivery, surged 11 percent as sales beat estimates.  Visa Inc. ,
the biggest payments network, rose 3.8 percent to a record
$112.42 after profit soared as consumers increased use of credit
and debit cards.  The  KBW Bank Index  slipped 0.3 percent as 18 of its 24
stocks declined. Five U.S. lenders, including Citigroup Inc.,
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Wells Fargo &
Co ., will pay more than $25 billion in the biggest civil
settlement involving states and the federal government to end a
probe of abusive foreclosure practices stemming from the
collapse of the housing bubble. Citigroup lost 1.7 percent,  Bank
of America  increased 0.6 percent, JPMorgan lost 1.2 percent and
Wells Fargo slipped 0.2 percent.  The S&P 500 has advanced in six of the last seven sessions,
extending its rebound from its 2011 low to 23 percent, and is up
7.5 percent in 2012 for its best start to a year since 1991.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  increased 0.2 percent, halting a
three-day retreat. Daimler AG, the maker of Mercedes-Benz cars,
jumped to the highest in six months after reporting a 39 percent
increase in quarterly profit.  Credit Suisse Group AG  fell 3.5
percent after posting an unexpected loss. The MSCI Emerging
Markets Index was little changed after climbing to a six-month
high yesterday.  European Yields  Italian, Spanish and French bonds advanced, while German
bunds and U.K. gilts declined. Italian 10-year yields decreased
10 basis points to 5.48 percent, the lowest since October. Ten-
year Spanish yields slipped four basis points to 5.18 percent.  The agreement reached by Greek political leaders to win the
nation’s second bailout may be “analytically questionable,”
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed A. El-Erian said.  “It is very unlikely to lead to growth, jobs, financial
stability and new investments,” El-Erian, chief executive and
co-chief investment officer of the world’s biggest manager of
bond funds, said in a radio interview today on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “This agreement
will be very difficult to sell when the principals, those who
have agreed, have to go to their constituents.”  Euro Strengthens  The euro strengthened against 13 of 16 major peers,
climbing more than 0.8 percent against the Japanese yen and
South African rand. The  European Central Bank  kept interest
rates on hold at a policy meeting and ECB President  Mario Draghi 
said surveys confirm “signs of stabilization” in the region.
The dollar weakened against nine of 16 major peers.  Treasuries fell as the U.S. sale of $16 billion of 30-year
bonds was met with lower-than-average demand. The bonds drew a
yield of 3.240 percent, compared with a forecast of 3.231
percent in a Bloomberg News survey of nine of the  Federal
Reserve ’s 21 primary dealers. The bid-to-cover ratio, which
gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount of
securities offered, was 2.47, compared with an average of 2.66
for the previous 10 sales. Current 30-year bond yields reached a
three-month high, rising three basis points to 3.18 percent.  Warren Buffett , the billionaire chairman of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., said low  interest rates  and inflation should
dissuade investors from buying bonds and other holdings tied to
currencies.  ‘Most Dangerous’  “They are among the most dangerous of assets,” Buffett
said in an adaptation of his annual letter to shareholders that
appeared today on the website of Fortune magazine. “Over the
past century these instruments have destroyed the purchasing
power of investors in many countries, even as these holders
continued to receive timely payments of interest and
principal.”  Treasuries also retreated after initial U.S. jobless claims
unexpectedly decreased by 15,000 last week to 358,000, reducing
demand for haven assets. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index
rose to minus 41.7 in the period to Feb. 5 from minus 44.8 the
previous week.  Fifteen of 24 commodities in the S&P GSCI Index advanced,
with zinc, copper, lead and aluminum up more than 1.5 percent.
Crude oil climbed 1.1 percent to $99.84 a barrel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  