-- Most Asian Stocks Advance as Greece Confident Bailout Agreement in Reach
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-02-09T11:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/asian-stocks-fall-from-six-month-high-as-investors-watch-greece-debt-talks.html
Most  Asian stocks  climbed, with the
region’s benchmark index trading near a six-month high, amid
speculation  Greece  will secure a second bailout when euro-area
officials meet today.  Lenovo Group Ltd. rallied 3.8 percent in Hong Kong after
the world’s second-biggest maker of personal computers posted
better-than-estimated earnings. Japanese paper makers climbed in
 Tokyo . BHP Billiton Ltd. paced declining shares, falling 1.6
percent in Sydney.  Chinese stocks reversed early losses after
inflation unexpectedly accelerated in January as consumers
splashed out during lunar new year celebrations.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose less than 0.1 percent to
126.71 at 8:39 p.m. in Tokyo after earlier slipping as much as 1
percent. Five stocks climbed for every four that fell. The gauge
yesterday rallied 1.3 percent to a six-month high amid optimism
a deal will be struck in Greece.  “History tells us that a deal in Greece will be reached at
the last minute,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of
investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which has
almost $100 billion under management. “A lot of indications
show they are heading in that direction even though there are
endless delays.”  A government official today said Greece was confident euro
area finance ministers will approve a second bailout for the
country. The official, who declined to be named, said there
would not be another meeting of political parties later today.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told reporters
in  Athens  there were still “issues outstanding that must be
resolved” before European finance ministers meet in Brussels
today. He spoke after a meeting with Prime Minister  Lucas
Papademos  and the so-called troika of lenders that ended just
before 6 a.m. local time.  Regional Indexes  Greece faces a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March 20
and is struggling to secure financing to avert a collapse of the
economy that could spark a new round of contagion in the euro
area.  Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  fell less than 0.1 percent
after earlier dropping as much as 1.1 percent. Japan’s Nikkei
225 Stock Average and  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index both closed
0.2 percent lower.  South Korea ’s Kospi Index added 0.5 percent,
erasing losses of as much as 1.3 percent, as the nation’s
central bank held borrowing costs steady for an eighth month.  The MSCI Asia Pacific earlier fell as much as 1 percent
after a National Bureau of Statistics report showed consumer
prices in  China  increased 4.5 percent in January from a year
earlier, up from 4.1 percent in December. That also beat the
median economist estimate of 4 percent.  ‘Loaded With Cash’  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
listed in Hong Kong fell as much as 1.7 percent before paring
losses to 0.1 percent. The Shanghai Composite Index climbed 0.1
percent after sliding 0.6 percent as the data were released.  “The prospect of China easing isn’t much but people are
more bullish on the U.S. and the global recovery,” said  Alex
Wong , asset-management director at Ample Capital Ltd. in Hong
Kong. “People are still loaded with cash, and U.S. economic
performance was good so right now the uptrend is still strong.”  Lenovo climbed 3.8 percent to HK$6.49 after the company
reported a 54 percent increase in third-quarter profit to $153
million as orders for office computers jumped and acquisitions
in Germany and  Japan  boosted sales. That beat the $139.8 million
average of nine analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Revenue rose 44 percent.  Japanese paper mills rose the most among the Topix Index’s
33  industry groups  after Nippon Paper Group Inc. yesterday
posted growing profit. Nippon Paper jumped 5.5 percent to 1,766
yen, Mitsubishi Paper Mills Ltd. surged 11 percent to 84 yen and
Hokuetsu Kishu Paper Co. climbed 4.1 percent to 539 yen.  BHP Coke Strike  BHP, the world’s largest mining company lost 1.6 percent to
A$37.16 in Sydney as workers at BHP’s coking coal mines in
Australia said they will strike for seven days from Feb. 15
after rejecting the company’s latest offer.  About 3,500 workers at BHP’s mines in Queensland’s Bowen
Basin have held rolling strikes since June over pay and
conditions, before suspending industrial action in December to
resume contract talks.  Elsewhere,  Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688)  suspended its shares from
trading in Hong Kong as the company prepares a statement about a
transaction involving its parent, which is raising about $3
billion to buy back stock held by Yahoo! Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Jones in Sydney at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  