-- Tata Steel Gains on Prospects for Higher Prices, Lower Costs: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-02-10T11:51:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/tata-steel-unexpectedly-posts-loss-on-material-costs-weak-european-demand.html
Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) , India’s biggest
producer, jumped the most in four weeks as prospects for higher
alloy prices and lower input costs attracted investors
undeterred by a loss from writing down inventory.  The Mumbai-based steelmaker climbed 5.1 percent, the most
since Jan. 13, to 475.05 rupees at the close of trading in
Mumbai. The stock has advanced 42 percent this year, compared
with a 15 percent gain in the benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   The company yesterday reported a  loss  of 6.03 billion
rupees ($122 million) for the three months ended Dec. 31,
following a one-time charge of about 7.4 billion rupees at Tata
Steel Europe Ltd. and other units due to a drop in steel and raw
material prices. The loss contrasts with a profit of 10 billion
rupees a year earlier and the median profit forecast of 2.57
billion rupees in a Bloomberg survey of 28 analysts. Sales
gained 15 percent to 329.6 billion rupees.  Although the earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization “came below consensus it was mainly due to a
one-time write-off on their stock,” said Sagar Karkhanis, an
analyst at Nirmal Bang Equities Pvt. in Mumbai. Without the
write-off, “there was no negative surprise,” he said.  A decline in the prices of  iron ore  and coking coal and a
pick-up in construction in India will boost the demand for the
alloy, said Deven Choksey, managing director at Mumbai-based
brokerage K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt. The cost of iron
ore at  China ’s Tianjin port has slid about 20 percent to $142.80
a ton since September, while quarterly contracted prices for
coking coal have slid 17 percent to $235 a ton from the previous
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Higher Prices  Tata Steel increased prices by 1,000 rupees a ton in
February, Group Chief Financial Officer Koushik Chatterjee said
today on Bloomberg-UTV television channel, without giving a
percentage gain. Prices are rising in the U.S. and demand in
 Europe  is improving he said.  Steel prices in India may extend gains in the next few
months after rising in January, partly because exporters in
China are forecast to increase prices, MEPS (International) Ltd.,
a U.K.-based industry consultant, said in a Feb. 2 report. Steel
Authority of India Ltd., the nation’s second-largest producer,
said it increased prices of some of its products by as much as
3.9 percent, effective Feb. 1.  “The current quarter is showing some signs of improvement
for the company’s Europe operations, with costs coming down and
steel prices inching up,” Choksey said in a telephone interview.
“The pick-up in construction activity here should boost metal
prices.”  Europe Crisis  The debt crisis in Europe, which contributes about two-
thirds of Tata’s production, has cut steel demand and prices.
Global use of the alloy will rise 4.5 percent in 2012, the
slowest in three years, according to the median estimate of 14
steelmakers, analysts and traders surveyed by Bloomberg.  Tata Steel’s total costs rose 22 percent in the quarter to
325.5 billion rupees, while raw material expenses climbed 21
percent to 126.2 billion rupees in the quarter. Tata Steel,
which had a net debt of $9.52 billion rupees as of Dec. 31,
earned 1.38 billion rupees from sources other than its main
business, the company said.  Tata Steel Europe Chief Executive Officer Karl-Ulrich Koehler in November predicted a “difficult” third quarter. The
European unit, which buys all the raw material it needs from
outside suppliers, faced an increase in coking coal prices,
compared with a 3.5 percent increase in the price of steel hot-
rolled coils in the last quarter.  Demand Rebound  Demand for the alloy is expected to improve should  India ’s
central bank lower  interest rates , Managing Director H.M.
Nerurkar told reporters yesterday in Mumbai. The  Reserve Bank  of
India increased interest rates 13 times since the start of 2010
to curb inflation. Subir Gokarn, the deputy governor of the bank,
said last month the monetary cycle has peaked.  Tata Steel plans to add 2.9 million tons of annual capacity
at its Jamshedpur facility this quarter, taking total production
to 10 million tons, Nerurkar said.  The company on Dec. 2 said it mothballed the Llanwern hot
strip mill in Newport, U.K., cutting 115 jobs. The mill will
remain shut until the U.K. economy and steel demand justify a
restart, it said then.  Rival  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s largest steel producer,
reported on Feb. 7 fourth-quarter earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization fell to $1.71 billion from $1.85
billion a year earlier. That compared with the $1.68 billion
median  estimate  of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. First-half
Ebitda is likely to exceed results in the prior six months,
while still being lower than a year earlier, the company said in
a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  