-- Aussie Dollar Falls First Time in Eight Weeks as RBA Cuts Growth Outlook
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-02-10T17:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/australian-dollar-trades-near-6-month-high-amid-greek-bailout-prospects.html
Australia’s dollar fell for the
first week since December after the  Reserve Bank  lowered its
forecasts for growth and inflation this year, boosting scope for
policy makers to reduce  interest rates .  The so-called Aussie weakened against most of its peers
after the central bank said it sees the economy expanding 3.5
percent in 2012, down from its Nov. 4 estimate of 4 percent. The
 New Zealand dollar , nicknamed the kiwi, extended a weekly drop
as European finance ministers withheld an aid package necessary
to prevent the Greek economy from collapsing.  “The RBA still has an easing bias, and that is reflected
in them revising down their growth forecasts,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in
 Singapore . The scale-back of half a percentage point is “a
pretty huge move,” weighing on the Aussie, he said.  Australia ’s dollar slid 1 percent to $1.0675 at 12:16 p.m.
New York time. It reached $1.0845 on Feb. 8, the strongest since
Aug. 2. It lost 1.1 percent to 82.85 yen.  The kiwi dropped 0.7 percent to 82.81 U.S. cents and
slipped 0.8 percent to 64.26 yen.  The Australian currency has declined 0.9 percent against
the greenback since Feb. 3, the first five-day drop in eight
weeks. The kiwi has weakened 0.9 percent in the period.  “Inflation is forecast to remain around the midpoint of
the target range for most of the next couple of years,”
Australia’s central bank said today in its quarterly monetary
policy statement. The outlook for consumer prices provides
“scope for easier monetary policy should demand conditions
weaken materially,” it said.  Consumer Prices  Consumer prices will rise 3 percent in the year through to
the fourth quarter, less than a previous prediction of 3.25
percent, the central bank also said, while its forecast for
underlying inflation was unchanged at 2.75 percent. The
estimates are based on the overnight cash rate target remaining
at its current level of 4.25 percent, it said.  The Australian dollar has risen 1.2 over the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weight Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies.  New Zealand ’s dollar has
strengthened 1.9 percent, the best performance, while the
greenback is down 3 percent.  Greece is missing its debt-cutting targets and may fall
short of its intended debt-to-gross-domestic product ratio,
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told lawmakers in
Berlin today, according to two people who took part in the
meeting.  Refused to Approve  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said his euro-
area counterparts refused to approve a 130 billion-euro ($171
billion) aid package because the government fell short of
austerity demands. George Karatzaferis, the leader of Greece’s
Laos party, said he couldn’t support an accord on cuts in its
present form.  “Right here, right now, I don’t want to be joining this
risk rally because a positive outcome on Sunday and next week is
already largely reflected in the price,” Westpac’s Cavenagh
said of  Greece ’s vote on austerity measures and a meeting of
euro-area finance ministers on Feb. 15. “The European debt
crisis is by no means over,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  