-- Mortgage Deal Props Up California House of Cards: Steven Greenhut
-- B y   S t e v e n   G r e e n h u t
-- 2012-02-09T16:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/taxpayers-prop-up-california-house-of-cards-commentary-by-steven-greenhut.html
Why should a taxpayer in Houston or
Wichita bail out irresponsible  California  homeowners, banks and
the state’s public employees’ retirement fund?  Yet that’s exactly what the Obama administration is looking
to do in its latest effort to shore up a housing market that
continues to sag as large percentages of Americans remain
underwater in their mortgages.  The administration is pleased that California’s attorney
general is now on board with the president’s multibillion-dollar
bank settlement after securing tougher measures to benefit
individual homeowners.  More good California-based news for President  Barack Obama :
 Bank of America  Corp. has become the first large mortgage
provider in the Golden State to take part in a federally funded
“Keep Your Home” program that would pay banks to reduce the
balances that struggling California homeowners owe them.  Unfortunately, the federal mortgage-relief plan and the
California foreclosure-aid fund are based on the same deep
misunderstanding about the cause of the housing bust that led to
many of the problems in the first place -- problems that were
particularly pronounced in California because some policies here
were worse than elsewhere. Greedy unregulated banks acted like
drug pushers by enticing people to take on more debt than they
could afford, the Obama administration thinking goes. This view
is deeply flawed.  Houses as Casinos  The main debate among states was whether to provide more
aid to individual homeowners or to provide greater latitude for
states to sue these banks. There’s little discussion in the
current negotiations about the role that government lending and
land-use policies played in this mess or recollection about how
the situation actually unfolded.  After the bubble burst, I recall asking a friend where all
the money went as million-dollar tract houses lost half their
value. He laughed, and pointed to his new RV -- a reminder of
how prevalent it was for Californians to view their quickly
appreciating houses as piggy banks. No doubt, predatory lenders
engaged in fraudulent practices during the price run-up, but
there’s much more to this story than that storyline.  Within months of moving from  Ohio  to  Southern California  in
1998, I noticed that  home prices  were rising rapidly and buyers
were getting frenzied. We got out of our lease early, fearful
that we would be relegated to permanent-renter status, and
bought an aging $200,000 tract house. Within five years, homes
like ours were selling for about $650,000.  It seemed as if everyone was refinancing, doing cash-outs,
remodeling their places, buying new cars and taking Hawaiian
vacations. Water-cooler conversations at work often revolved
around discussions of “You’ll never guess what my house is
worth.” After the crash, the same people have turned into
victims, who apparently had no idea what they were doing and
were preyed upon by banks.  Virtually every aspect of the lending process is governed
by federal rules, so it’s nonsensical to argue that the banks
were unregulated. Our political leaders seem to be forgetting,
also, that it was direct government policy to arm-twist banks
into giving out loans to unqualified buyers. The Community
Reinvestment Act scored banks based on the number of loans they
provided to low-income people.  Blame Federal Policy  As  John McClaughry wrote  in Reason magazine in December,
“By 1995 the CRA had become a powerful tool in the hands of
ACORN and allied activist organizations,” referring to the
Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now. “Unless
a bank could silence their protests by making (and passing on to
 Fannie Mae ) the demanded amount of subprime loans, it faced
serious difficulties in obtaining regulatory approval for
branching, merging, and other corporate decisions.”  This stemmed from an ideology, supported in Republican as
well as Democratic circles, that viewed homeownership as the key
to a prosperous life. In pricey California, lenders -- and
governments, which often offered residents down-payment
assistance and low-interest loans -- got ever more creative so
that they could help buyers afford median home prices that
soared above $600,000 in many urban markets.  Everyone was in on the game. California wants a tougher
settlement, the New York Times reported, to help the  California
Public Employees’ Retirement System  recoup some of its losses.
Calpers was on the leading edge of this nonsense, as it used
borrowed money to build what later became the  most upside-down
community in the nation  -- Mountain House, California, across
the Altamont Pass in the Central Valley, where Bay Area
residents priced out of their region could afford a home,
provided they could tolerate the grinding commute.  If one looks at prices in most places in the Midwest and
South during the inflating housing bubble, one will find
increased prices and small spikes, but nothing like what
happened in California.  California has some of the most extreme  land-use  controls
in the nation. When demand increased, in less-regulated housing
markets, builders were able to construct houses in a reasonable
amount of time. In California’s coastal communities, it can take
years to gain the government approvals necessary to build a new
subdivision, so the market couldn’t respond. As a result, the
stock of existing homes soared in price and builders went into
the hinterlands to build new subdivisions for commuters. This is
bad policy on any number of economic and environmental levels.  Jobs Come First  I don’t hear anyone proposing any policy fixes for that
problem. Instead, we get proposals to help homeowners refinance
their mortgages even though they have no equity in their homes,
something that might save them a little money each month, but
won’t do anything to solve the real problem of owning a home
that is worth less than the mortgage.  The Obama administration has argued that the economy won’t
revive until the home market is fixed, but the opposite is true.
I own two rental houses in the Central Valley, purchased for
about 25 percent of their prices at the height of the market.
They receive rents that are about double the total cost of the
monthly payments, yet there is an abundance of homes like this
available. People aren’t buying them because they don’t have
jobs and because the government rules now make it too tough to
get the credit to purchase them.  Instead of bailing out bad behavior from banks and
consumers, it’s time for policy makers to let the market work --
in lending, land use and economic policy. In discussing the
Obama mortgage proposal,  USA Today  opined this week that the
 Republican Party ’s challenge is “to come up with an alternative
that goes beyond simply saying no.” But saying no is exactly
what the nation needs now, especially if yes means another
bailout for imprudent Californians.  (Steven Greenhut is vice president of journalism at the
Franklin Center for Government and Public Integrity. He is based
in  Sacramento . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Steven Greenhut in Sacramento at
 steven.greenhut@franklincenterhq.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  