-- Bank Credit Ratings, Danish ‘Zombie Banks’, PepsiCo Unit Fined: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-02-09T13:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/bank-credit-ratings-zombie-banks-pepisco-fined-compliance.html
Banks may be forced to strengthen
capital buffers if regulators toss out credit ratings now used
to calculate how much they need to cover possible trading
losses, according to financial industry trade groups.  The  American Bankers Association  and six industry groups
said in a Feb. 7 letter to financial regulators that abandonment
of ratings would be “ill-advised and an over-reaction.”  The Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 called for federal agencies to
find alternative measures of creditworthiness after lawmakers
criticized firms such as  Moody’s Corp. (MCO)  over bad calls on
securitized debt before the 2008 financial crisis. Proposals
made by the Federal Reserve, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency would change
valuation methods while maintaining  capital ratios  required
under existing international rules.  If the changes aren’t risk-sensitive and create
“uneconomic incentives” for securities decisions, “they risk
materially altering, and potentially harming, the systemic
liquidity that allows issuers and investors to transact in the
capital markets,” said the letter to the three agencies. The
letter asks the regulators to rethink and re-propose the rules
based on different approaches suggested by the industry.  Other trade groups sending the letter included the
 Financial Services Roundtable ,  Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association  and  The Clearing House .  Compliance Policy  Danish Zombie Banks Fair Game in Regulatory Revamp, FSA Says  Denmark’s financial regulator defended its determination to
impose more rigorous bank capital standards amid warnings from
industry groups that the measures are depriving firms of credit
and stifling growth.  Surprise audits by the Financial Supervisory Authority in
Copenhagen, or FSA, last year led to three  bank failures  after
they were found to have understated their bad loans, leaving
them in breach of capital rules. The approach is spooking banks
and spurring a wave of loan retrenchment that’s left businesses
without the funds to grow, according to Karsten Dybvad, the head
of the Confederation of Danish Industries. He says Denmark’s
$300 billion economy is in the grip of a credit crunch that’s
getting worse.  The agency this week proposed tougher rules to force
lenders to write down real estate portfolios in line with market
losses. The measures follow a requirement that banks adjust
their books to reflect lower values on farm land.  Banks at risk of being declared insolvent represent about 3
percent of Denmark’s financial industry, according to the FSA.
Still, the fallout of more failures may have ripple effects
through the whole sector.  For more, click here.  Senator Toomey Warns SEC He Will Fight Rules for Money Funds  U.S. Senator  Pat Toomey , a Pennsylvania Republican, said he
wouldn’t rule out proposing legislation to protect money market
mutual funds from new rules being planned at the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  The mutual funds industry is fighting new rules being
prepared by the SEC staff, saying they would destroy the $2.6
trillion money fund business. Regulators have debated how to
make the funds more stable since the September 2008 collapse of
the $62.5 billion  Reserve Primary Fund (REPXX) , which triggered an
industrywide run by clients and helped freeze global credit
markets.  Toomey echoed an argument made Feb. 7 by the  Investment
Company Institute , a fund company trade group, that some
regulators are out to kill money funds, aiming his comments at
the U.S.  Federal Reserve .  The first of two SEC proposals would force money funds to
abandon their traditional $1 share price, adopting a so-called
floating net-asset value. The second plan would require funds to
build a capital cushion designed to absorb potential losses and
hold back at least 3 percent of client withdrawals for 30 days.  Bank-Debt Limit Sought by EU Lawmakers Following Dexia Breakup  Banks may be forced to limit their borrowing in a bid by
European Union lawmakers to strengthen the region’s
implementation of Basel capital rules.  Members of the EU’s Parliament will push for the rule that
may force banks to hold reserves against possible losses on the
region’s sovereign debt, according to two lawmakers on the
assembly’s financial affairs committee.  The EU’s effort to implement the Basel rules has been “too
conservative,” said Philippe Lamberts, who is leading work on
the dossier for the parliament’s Green group. Last year’s
failure of  Dexia SA (DEXB)  showed the need for a borrowing limit to
maintain investor confidence in banks, he said in an interview.  The EU is striving to meet a January 2013 deadline to adopt
tougher bank rules agreed on by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision in 2010.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services
chief, was criticized last year by governments including the
U.K. for proposing a law that they claimed would water down what
was approved in Basel, including by dropping the debt limit,
known as a  leverage ratio .  The Basel committee has called for the measure to take
effect in 2018. Barnier has said that the leverage ratio is
“untested” and needs further study.  For more, click here.  Barnier Pushes EU-Wide Transactions Tax as 9 Nations Support It  European Union  Financial Services  Commissioner Michel
Barnier urged all 27 EU nations to back a financial-transaction
tax after nine countries called for speedy approval of a region-
wide measure.  He made the remarks at a press conference in Brussels
yesterday.  France and eight other EU countries seek to introduce the
transaction tax, which will cover shares, derivatives and high-
frequency trading, French Budget Minister Valerie Pecresse said
at a press conference. The other countries are Germany, Italy,
Spain, Belgium, Austria, Finland, Portugal and Greece.  An impact assessment accompanying the EU proposal in
September said that the tax plan would erode gross domestic
product by 0.5 percent over the “long-run.” This week,  a study 
by Columbia University’s Stephany Griffith-Jones and Avinash
Persaud, chairman of  Intelligence Capital , said the tax might
actually have a positive impact on long-term growth because it
would reduce the likelihood of destabilizing financial crises in
the future.  France and the other eight nations sent a letter to the
Danish government, current holder of the EU’s rotating
presidency, pressing for a regionwide transactions tax, the
French Finance Ministry in Paris said Feb. 7.  Lawmakers Seek to Stem Potential Conflicts in Swaps Rules  The potential for U.S. and foreign regulations to reach
across national borders and create overlapping or conflicting
rules is gaining urgency as global authorities seek to complete
rules this year to prevent a repeat of the 2008 credit crisis.  The U.S. is facing increasing criticism from Canadian,
British and European Union regulators over the possibility that
the Volcker rule ban on proprietary trading would restrict
foreign sovereign debt markets while exempting  U.S. government
debt . At the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission , meanwhile,
regulators are facing pressure from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,
 Barclays Capital  and foreign regulators to limit the
international reach of Dodd-Frank Act derivatives regulations.  The  House Financial Services Committee  held a hearing
yesterday on the international reach of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act.
JPMorgan Associate General Counsel Don Thompson told lawmakers
that the rule would have a “significant disadvantage” if it
affects the bank’s foreign subsidiaries without reaching
overseas rivals.  U.S. and foreign regulators, who say they are working to
coordinate rules, haven’t reached consensus and in some cases
haven’t yet proposed policies to seek public comment before
adopting final measures. The Volcker rule begins to take effect
in July, while U.S. regulators are already more than eight
months past Dodd-Frank’s deadline for new derivatives rules.  Michel Barnier, the European Union’s financial services
commissioner, is planning to discuss the reach of the Volcker
rule with Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  when he visits
the U.S. on Feb. 23, said  Chantal Hughes , a spokeswoman for
Barnier.  For more, click here.  Germany, Switzerland Should Scrap Unlimited Guarantees, FSB Says  Germany and Switzerland should revoke financial guarantees
they gave to some local banks because the measures could lead to
“greater risk-taking,” the Financial Stability Board said in a
report published  on its website .  Such guarantees amount to “unlimited” protection of  bank
deposits  from loss and “should be avoided,” the FSB said in
the report, which examines national programs to protect savers.  The unlimited guarantees apply to German cooperative and
savings banks and some Swiss cantonal lenders, according to the
group, which includes regulators, central bankers and finance
ministry officials from the Group of 20 countries.  Nations rushed to guarantee bank deposits in response to
the worldwide credit crunch that began in 2007 and prevent bank
runs.  Compliance Action  Batelco Exits India After Supreme Court Cancels Phone Licenses  Bahrain Telecommunications Co. (BATELCO)  sold its stake in an Indian
mobile-phone operator after the nation’s top court last week
canceled licenses in a corruption probe.  Batelco, as the Manama, Bahrain-based company is known,
sold its entire 42.7 percent stake in STel Pvt. to Sky City
Foundation Ltd. for $174.5 million, it said in a statement Feb.
7. The Middle Eastern phone company and Dubai-based Millennium
Private Equity invested $225 million in the Indian venture when
they entered the country in January 2009.  Batelco’s exit is the first by a foreign investor after
India’s Supreme Court on Feb. 2 canceled wireless permits won by
11 companies including STel in a 2008 sale, which is being
probed by federal auditors and investigators. The Supreme Court
ruling came 14 months after India’s chief auditor said the sale
at “unbelievably low” prices may have cost the exchequer as
much as $31 billion.  The court asked the  Telecom Regulatory Authority of India 
to recommend the next course of action, which could include an
auction for the permits.  Greece’s Antitrust Regulator Fines PepsiCo 16.2 Million Euros  The  Hellenic Competition Commission , Greece’s antitrust
regulator, fined  PepsiCo (PEP)  Inc’s Greek snack unit, Tasty Foods,
16.2 million euros for abusing its dominant position in the
market in the period 2000 to 2008.  Nearly 12 million euros of the fine was for abusing its
market position while the remainder was for infringements
related to restricted agreements, according to a statement on
the Athens-based regulator’s website yesterday.  UBS Employee Tax-Evasion Probe Dropped by German Prosecutors  German prosecutors dropped a probe into three employees at
 UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, over allegations they helped
clients evade taxes by hiding money in Switzerland.  A four-year-old investigation that included searches of
offices and private property didn’t support allegations
initially made in a television-news report, prosecutors in
Mannheim said in an e-mailed statement.  The unidentified employees at UBS’s branch in Baden-Baden,
Germany, allegedly offered reporters from German television
station ZDF, disguised as potential clients, assistance sending
funds to Switzerland to hide them from German tax authorities.  UBS was charged in 2009 with aiding  tax evasion  by U.S.
clients. The lender avoided prosecution by paying $780 million,
admitting it fostered tax evasion, and giving the authorities
data on customer accounts. In the past three years, U.S.
prosecutors have filed tax charges against at least 40 U.S.
clients of UBS and other lenders.  “UBS was informed that the probe was closed and all
allegations dropped,”  Serge Steiner , a Zurich-based spokesman
for the bank, said by telephone.  SEC Delays Decision on NYSE Proposal to Attract Retail Orders  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission extended its
review yesterday of the New York Stock Exchange’s proposal to
draw more orders from retail brokers.  NYSE and NYSE Amex  sought permission  in October for a one-
year pilot program to attract orders from individual investors
by offering them potentially better prices than are publicly
available. Postponing a decision isn’t an indication of whether
the SEC is likely to approve or reject the rules proposed by the
two  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  stock exchanges.  The programs would require an exemption from a rule that
prevents exchanges from accepting orders priced in increments of
less than 1 cent, the SEC said. They would also allow a new type
of order to be available only to a subset of market
participants, it said.  Richard Adamonis , a spokesman for NYSE
Euronext, said in an e-mail that the exchanges will respond to
comment  letters  it received “in the coming weeks.”  Interviews/Speeches  Hester Pledges to Remain at RBS to Defuse ‘Time Bomb’  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Hester discussed the challenges facing the lender and
his decision to forgo a 963,000-pound ($1.5 million) bonus.
Among other topics, he touched on defusing a “time bomb” at
the bank, and shaping the institution into a “model” for how
banks can serve society.  He spoke with James Naughtie on the Today Programme, BBC
Radio 4.  For the audio, click here.  Dannhauser Says EU Bank Recapitalizations Go ‘Too Far’  Jamie Dannhauser, an economist at  Lombard Street Research ,
discussed the impact of the European Central Bank’s longer-term
refinancing operation and the outlook for the region’s banks.  He spoke with  Mark Barton  and David Tweed on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Dubai DFSA Chief Executive Paul Koster to Step Down in September  The  Dubai Financial Services Authority , which regulates the
tax free business park called the Dubai  International Financial
Centre , said Chief Executive Officer Paul Koster will step down
in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 