-- Bank of England MPC Comments After Rate Decision (Text)
-- B y   M a r k   E v a n s
-- 2012-02-09T12:02:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/bank-of-england-mpc-comments-after-rate-decision-text-.html
The following is the text of the
 Bank of England  Monetary Policy Committee comments following
the February rate decision:  The  Bank of England ’s Monetary Policy Committee today voted
to maintain the official Bank Rate paid on commercial bank
reserves at 0.5%. The Committee also voted to increase the size
of its asset purchase programme, financed by the issuance of
central bank reserves, by GBP50 billion to a total of GBP325
billion.
In the  United Kingdom , the underlying pace of recovery slowed
during 2011, with activity falling slightly during the final
quarter. Some recent business surveys have painted a more
positive picture and asset prices have risen. But the pace of
expansion in the United Kingdom’s main export markets has also
slowed and concerns remain about the indebtedness and
competitiveness of some euro-area countries. A gradual
strengthening of output growth later this year should be
supported by a gentle recovery in household real incomes as
inflation falls, together with the continued stimulus from
monetary policy. But the drag from tight credit conditions and
the fiscal consolidation together present a headwind. The
correspondingly weak outlook for near-term output growth means
that a significant margin of economic slack is likely to
persist.
CPI inflation has fallen back from its September peak,
declining to 4.2% in December. Inflation should continue to
fall sharply in the near term, as the increase in VAT in January
2011 drops out of the twelve-month comparison. Inflation is
then likely to decline further as the contribution of energy
and import prices diminishes, while downward pressure from
unemployment and spare capacity continues to restrain
domestically generated inflation.
In the light of its most recent economic projections, the
Committee judged that the weak near-term growth outlook and
associated downward pressure from economic slack meant that,
without further monetary stimulus, it was more likely than not
that inflation would undershoot the 2% target in the medium
term. The Committee therefore voted to increase the size of
its programme of asset purchases, financed by the issuance of
central bank reserves, by GBP50 billion to a total of GBP325
billion. The Committee also voted to maintain  Bank Rate  at 0.5%.
The Committee expects the announced programme of asset
purchases to take three months to complete. The scale of the
programme will be kept under review.
The Committee’s latest inflation and output projections will
appear in the Inflation Report to be published at 10.30am on
Wednesday 15 February.
The minutes of the meeting will be published at 9.30am on
Wednesday 22 February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Evansin London at 
 mevans8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  