-- BG Fourth-Quarter Earnings Climb 42% on Higher Asian LNG Demand
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-02-09T07:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/bg-fourth-quarter-earnings-climb-42-on-higher-asian-lng-demand.html
BG Group Plc (BG/) , the U.K.’s third-
largest natural-gas producer, reported a 42 percent increase in
earnings on higher liquefied natural-gas demand in Asia.  Net income  in the fourth quarter rose to $1.3 billion from
$940 million in the year-earlier period, the Reading, England-
based company said today in a statement.  LNG shipments to Asia soared last year after Japan, the
world’s largest importer of the fuel, boosted output at gas-
fired power plants to compensate for nuclear reactors idled
after the March earthquake and tsunami.  “LNG imports continued to show a clear shift to Asia in
the fourth quarter,”  Oswald Clint , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in  London , said before the earnings release.
“This will allow BG to capture these higher margins.”  At the same time, BG’s gas output and sales in  Europe  were
curbed by a milder winter. U.K. front-month natural gas prices
are down about 12 percent since reaching a 2011 high of 67.80
pence per therm on Nov. 7.  Excluding disposals and one-time items, earnings were $1.5
billion. That beat the $1.1 billion mean estimate from a  survey 
of 14 analysts.  BG expected to earn $2.4 billion from its LNG operations
last year after raising its outlook from a February forecast of
as much as $2.2 billion.  “2011 will likely be seen as a disappointing and
frustrating year with year-on-year production essentially
flat,”  Lucas Herrmann, a London-based analyst at Deutsche Bank
AG, said before the report was released. In “2012 we expect
that production should start to show much better growth” with
about a 10 percent gain.  Production last year was reduced by field maintenance in
the  North Sea , civil unrest in North Africa and flooding in
Australia. BG expected “modest production growth,” Chief
Executive Officer  Frank Chapman  said in May, as the producer
focused on projects in Brazil, Australia and the U.S.  In Kazakhstan, BG and partners plan to further expand the
Karachaganak oil and gas field project after KazMunaiGaz
National Corp., the state energy company, secured a 10 percent
stake in the venture.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc and BP Plc are the U.K.’s biggest gas
producers.  BG will host a  webcast presentation  at 2 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  