-- BHP Australian Coal Miners to Strike for 7 Days, Union Says
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-02-09T07:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/bhp-australian-coal-miners-to-strike-for-seven-days-union-says.html
Workers at  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s coking
coal mines in  Australia , the world’s largest exporter, will
strike for seven days from Feb. 15 after rejecting the company’s
latest offer.  Union representatives informed BHP of the industrial action
today after workers voted to resume strikes that were first
started last year, the  Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy
Union  said today in a statement.  “BHP is making enormous profits out of its coking coal
operations in central Queensland, but it doesn’t want to listen
to its workforce,”  Stephen Smyth , district president of the
Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union, said today in
an e-mailed statement. “We need to make sure this mining boom
doesn’t come at the expense of workers’ safety and the interests
of our mining communities.”  About 3,500 workers at BHP’s mines in Queensland’s Bowen
Basin have held rolling strikes since June over pay and
conditions, before suspending industrial action in December to
resume contract talks. Labor unions globally are stepping up
demands for higher wages and improved conditions as record
commodity prices swell profits at mining companies.  Workers at BHP’s Goonyella Riverside, Broadmeadow, Peak
Downs, Saraji, Norwich Park, Gregory Crinum, and Blackwater
mines will be involved in the strikes starting next week,
according to the statement.  “We are extremely disappointed as we have consistently
demonstrated our commitment to negotiating constructively with
the unions,” BHP said today in an e-mailed statement. BHP
“cannot, and will not, diminish our rights and obligations to
manage our business, nor will we accept productivity-destroying
arrangements as currently proposed by the unions.”  The BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance, which controls the
mines in Queensland, is the world’s largest exporter of
steelmaking coal and equally owned by BHP and Mitsubishi
Development Pty. Almost all the coal mined at the BMA sites,
with an annual capacity of 58 million metric tons, is shipped
overseas for steel production, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  