-- Black Helicopters Hover Over Economic Reality: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-02-09T00:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/black-helicopters-hover-over-economic-reality-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
Maybe it’s inevitable that politics
play a role in economic policy. After all, the two disciplines
were pretty much intertwined until the 20th century.  Today, political economy has taken on a whole new meaning.
Perhaps “politicized economy” would be a more accurate
description.  Some of the politicization is natural and understandable:
Political philosophies dictate economic preferences and vice
versa.  Much of it is over the top. Today, politics infect
everything from the analysis of economic reports to the
interpretation of  Clint Eastwood ’s “Halftime in America”  Super
Bowl commercial  for Chrysler. Here are the categories I’ve
assigned to reflect the four degrees of politicization:  No. 1: I Think, Therefore I Am  It’s natural for a president to appoint advisers who share
his views on government’s role in the economy. For example, if
you believe that the cure for a weak economy is more government
 borrowing and spending  -- if you are a Keynesian -- you might be
tapped as an economic adviser for President  Barack Obama .  Alternatively, if your beliefs run to laissez-faire
capitalism (no longer an oxymoron) and market-based solutions,
you were probably last employed in the  Reagan administration .  Once an economist becomes a top presidential economic
adviser, she becomes a political tool, sacrificing both her
objectivity and credibility in the process. Berkeley economist
 Christina Romer , Obama’s first chairman of the  Council of
Economic Advisers , may be a respected researcher, but to me she
will always be Ms. “Jobs Created or Saved.” Romer was trotted
out quarterly to justify the cost of the administration’s 2009
fiscal stimulus, currently  estimated  at $825 billion. Talk about
pulling numbers out of a hat.  No. 2: Sour Grapes  If the foregoing reflects the inadvertent politicization of
economics, what follows is intentional, pure and simple.  Last Friday, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported a
243,000 increase in January non-farm jobs (257,000 in the
private sector) and a decline in the  unemployment rate  to a
three-year low of 8.3 percent. The internals of the report --
hours worked, wages, breadth of  job creation  -- were positive,
as well.  Republicans, hoping to run in November against Obama’s
lousy economic record, would prefer a rising jobless rate to a
declining one, which historically has been a good credential for
re-election.  “Anemic growth is not growth,” said former House Speaker
and Republican presidential hopeful  Newt Gingrich , responding to
the report. “I believe the economy will begin to recover the
day Barack Obama is voted out of office.”  Critiquing the stimulus and other administration
initiatives is a legitimate line of inquiry. Even better is
outlining your plan to make things better. Denying good news --
in this case, a gradually improving economic trend -- makes
Gingrich come across like, um, a space cadet.  No. 3: Yes, But...  House Speaker  John Boehner  said he saw “flickers of hope”
in Friday’s jobs report and welcomed the positive news, but --
you knew that was coming -- “we can do better.”  The jobless rate has been stuck above 8 percent for 36
consecutive months, he  said , before reminding the American
people of Obama’s promise to cap unemployment at that level if
Congress passed his stimulus bill. (Actually, it was Romer’s
econometric model that made that promise.)  Boehner did go positive, in a negative sort of way, saying
he hoped the news would inspire the Senate to take up the 27
jobs bills sitting in that chamber.  “If the president really wants to get the economy moving
again, really wants to improve his own chances of re-election,
maybe he’ll pick up the phone, call  Senator Reid  and ask  Senate
Democrats  to get off their rear ends.”  No. 4: Oh, What a Tangled Web We Weave  At the far end of the politicization spectrum are those who
believe the government cooks up the numbers in some dark corner
of the Labor Department basement. It’s as if these folks
decreed, “There shalt be no good news as long as Obama is
president, the federal government is expanding and the  Federal
Reserve  is printing  money  and debasing the dollar.”  I have a message for them. It’s not the data that are
politicized. It’s the interpretation.  Friday’s report inspired an outpouring of accusations of
“fraudulent employment statistics” and long screeds on updated
population estimates from bloggers ( ZeroHedge  and  the Economic
Collapse ) and editorial writers (the  Washington Times ) alike.  The household survey for January incorporated new
information from Census 2010. Previous months were unrevised.
Simply put, there is a December/January break in all the series
that rely on the new estimates.  If the December data had been updated for the population-
control effect, the  civilian non-institutional population  would
have increased 175,000 in January, a typical month-to-month
change, not the 1.7 million without the adjustment.  The composition of the population changed, as well.
Conspiracy theorists seized on the 1.2 million increase in those
“ not in the labor force .” Adjusted for an apples-to-apples
comparison, the number fell by 75,000 in January. That’s because
the population increase was concentrated in persons 55 and over
and in the 16-24 year-old age bracket: a population less likely
to be in the  labor force  than the general population. ( Tables B
and C  on Page 7 of the Employment Report outline these effects.)  Another hot spot for CTs was the 0.3 percentage-point drop
in  labor-force participation rate  in January, which also
reflects a break in the series. Had new population controls been
applied to December, the rate would have been 63.7 percent, the
same as January.  None of this is to deny the depressed state of the labor
market. But before you accuse me of naivete and BLS
statisicians, who are not political appointees, of fraud, ask
yourself one question. If the government were really fabricating
the numbers, why settle for an 8.3 percent  unemployment rate 
when 6.2 percent would better serve its agenda?  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  