-- Bloomingdale’s Gears Up for Chinese Shoppers as Obama Speeds Up U.S. Visas
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2012-02-09T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/bloomingdale-s-awaits-chinese-shoppers-as-obama-speeds-up-visas.html
For the past decade, Michael Gould
says he’s watched with envy as a “stupefying” number of
Chinese tourists lined up outside the doors of high-end
boutiques in Paris,  Rome , and other European cities.  “We find it frustrating to see business going elsewhere,”
says the chief executive officer of  Macy’s Inc. (M) ’s Bloomingdale’s
chain. Luring more foreign shoppers to  New York  is more
complicated than just spiffing up store windows, though. Post-
Sept. 11 security policies mean some wealthy foreign shoppers
have to wait months for travel visas to the U.S.  So last May, Gould and his counterparts at Macy’s and  Saks
Inc. (SKS)  began lobbying the federal government to make it easier for
tourists to enter the U.S. from China and Brazil. Retailers say
shoppers from both countries have become big spenders when they
visit, and demand for visas among Chinese and Brazilians has
increased, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Feb. 13 issue.  The average Chinese tourist spends $6,000 while in the
U.S., according to the Commerce Department. In January,
President  Barack Obama  gave the State Department 60 days to come
up with a way to decrease the time that Chinese and Brazilian
tourists have to wait for a visa from four months to three
weeks.  ‘Highly Respected’ Brands  “We have the kind of brands that are highly respected by
these visitors,” says Gould, “and the faster they can get here
the better.”  About 40 percent of foreign travelers to the U.S. need a
visa to pass through customs. Before the Sept. 11 attacks,
applicants filled out paperwork and waited about three weeks for
an answer. Afterward the federal government also began requiring
travelers to submit to an interview with a State Department
employee and to answer questions such as: Have you booked your
tickets? and, How much will you spend in the U.S.?  Even with the long wait for travel papers, the sagging
dollar had would-be tourists from  China  and Brazil lining up at
American embassies last year, with officials issuing 34 percent
more visas to Chinese and 42 percent more to Brazilians than in
2010.  “This is a winning situation for retailers because a key
reason overseas visitors want to come is to shop,” says David French, chief lobbyist for the Washington-based  National Retail
Federation . The group’s president, Matthew Shay, visited U.S.
officials at the embassy in Beijing last year to ask for help in
speeding up the process.  Stringent Security  America’s share of global tourism dropped 30 percent from
2000 to 2010, in part because of the “more stringent security
requirements imposed after 2001,” according to the Obama
administration’s executive order calling for consular officials
to interview 80 percent of the visa applicants from China and
 Brazil  within three weeks of receiving their paperwork.  The president also ordered State to issue 40 percent more
visas for Chinese and Brazilian tourists in 2012.  “The more folks who visit America, the more Americans we
get back to work,” Obama said.  The State Department says it’s starting a pilot program to
cut down on interviews of “low-risk” tourists, such as those
who received visas in the past, a change that Peter Boogaard,
spokesman for the Homeland Security Department, says “does not
diminish the security of the  United States .”  With roughly 1.4 million Chinese and more than 1 million
Brazilians expected to come to the U.S. this year under the new
program, Bloomingdale’s is preparing for the influx by hiring
more multilingual sales staff, planning overseas advertising
campaigns, and increasing orders of iconic American brands with
prominently placed logos --- think  Ralph Lauren (RL)  -- that store
managers say foreign tourists like to show off back at home.  “We’re expecting an enormous uptick in growth,” says
Gould.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova in Washington at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  