-- Bank of England Adds $79 Billion to Stimulus as Crisis Threatens Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-02-09T12:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/boe-adds-50-billion-pounds-to-stimulus.html
Bank of England  officials pumped
another 50 billion pounds ($79 billion) into the U.K. economy to
protect a nascent recovery from the threat posed by Europe’s
debt crisis.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee raised the target
for  bond purchases  to 325 billion pounds, more than a quarter of
current outstanding gilts, according to a statement in London
today. The increase was forecast by 34 of 50 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. Fifteen economists forecast a 75 billion-
pound increase and one no change. The MPC also held its
benchmark  interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent.  The stimulus expansion suggests policy makers remain
concerned that Europe’s failure to stem its debt turmoil poses a
risk to Britain and may pull inflation below their 2 percent
goal. While they noted an improvement in some business surveys
last month, they said the growth outlook remains weak and that
they had “concerns” about debt in some euro-area nations.  “They’re worried about risks to growth and they remain
confident that inflation will fall below their target,” said
Philip Rush, an economist at Nomura International Plc in  London .
“They need to explain why they’re still easing when the general
environment seems to have improved so much.”  The pound rose after the announcement, and traded at
$1.5867 as of 12:25 p.m. in London, up 0.3 percent from
yesterday. Bonds fell, pushing the yield on the 10-year gilt up
3 basis points to 2.209 percent. The yield fell to 1.917 percent
on Jan. 18, the lowest since Bloomberg began compiling the data
in 1989.  Euro Concerns  “Some recent business surveys have painted a more positive
picture and asset prices have risen,” the central bank said.
“But the pace of expansion in the U.K.’s main export markets
has also slowed and concerns remain about the indebtedness and
competitiveness of some euro-area countries.”  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos headed to
Brussels today as politicians in  Athens  try to reach agreement
on austerity measures needed to secure a 130 billion-euro ($172
billion) bailout. Failure to agree could mean Greece defaults on
a bond payment due in March and sparks contagion across the euro
area, which buys almost half of British exports and where U.K.
banks are exposed to more than $1 trillion of borrowings.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said on Jan. 25
that Britain had “substantial economic problems” and “dealing
with those problems is made more difficult by the situation in
the euro zone.”  Investors Primed  The central bank will start the bond purchases on Feb. 13
and hold three 1.5 billion-pound auctions a week for three
months. It will buy bonds in three maturities -- three to seven
years; seven to 15 years; and longer than 15 years.  Policy makers had primed investors to expect another round
of quantitative easing after they completed 75 billion pounds of
bond purchases this month. King said Jan. 24 the central bank
has “scope” to add to stimulus, while  Adam Posen  said last
week there was a case for another 75 billion pounds.  The MPC’s decisions were based on new growth and inflation
forecasts, which the central bank will publish on Feb. 15. Its
November projections showed  inflation  slowing to 1.7 percent by
the end of 2012. Annual consumer-price gains eased to 4.2
percent in December.  Cautious Companies  Britain’s economy shrank 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter,
its first contraction in a year. The National Institute of
Economic and Social Research, whose clients include the U.K.
Treasury and the Bank of England, said the economy is back in
recession and will shrink 0.1 percent this year.  Diageo Plc Chief Executive Officer  Paul Walsh  said today
the London-based distiller is “cautious as to the consumer and
economic trends we will face in 2012.” The maker of Guinness
stout and Smirnoff vodka has sought to further its expansion
outside  Europe , where consumers are spending less amid the
sovereign-debt crisis.  “A gradual strengthening of output growth later this year
should be supported by a gentle recovery in household real
incomes as inflation falls, together with the continued stimulus
from monetary policy,” the central bank said. “But the drag
from tight credit conditions and the fiscal consolidation
together present a headwind. The correspondingly weak outlook
for near-term output growth means that a significant margin of
economic slack is likely to persist.”  Positive Signs  Nevertheless, there are signs the U.K. economy is
strengthening. A Feb. 3 survey showed  services output  grew the
most in 10 months in January. Separate gauges last week
indicated manufacturing returned to growth and construction
continued to expand. Manufacturing production rose more than
economists forecast in December, figures published today showed.  In the U.S., the world’s largest economy, the  unemployment
rate  declined to 8.3 percent last month, the lowest since
February 2009. Europe’s  Stoxx 600 Index  had its best January in
14 years and is up about 7.8 percent this year. London’s FTSE
100 Index has gained 5.6 percent since the start of the year.  “We could be nearing the end in terms of quantitative
easing,”  Peter Dixon , an economist at Commerzbank AG in London,
said in a telephone interview. “Markets, at least for the
moment, are stabilizing, and if the uncertainty which prevailed
in the fourth quarter continues to lift, then I think the case
for additional QE becomes more difficult. But to a large extent,
it all hinges on the  euro zone .”  The  European Central Bank  held its  benchmark rate  at 1
percent today, as forecast by 55 of 57 economists in another
survey. The other two expected a cut to 0.75 percent. ECB
President  Mario Draghi  will hold a press conference at 2:30 p.m.
in  Frankfurt .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  