-- Bosphera Private Equity Raising $350 Million for Turkish Buyouts
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-02-09T15:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/bosphera-private-equity-raising-350-million-for-turkish-buyouts.html
Bosphera Advisory Ltd. , a newly
established buyout firm based in Istanbul, is raising $350
million for acquisitions in  Turkey , and is in advanced talks
with eight potential companies.  Bosphera, set up through a spinoff of Global Capital
Management Ltd., a buyout unit of  Global Investment House (GLOBAL)  KSCC
of  Kuwait , aims to complete the fundraising by November, the
firm’s founding partner Ihsan Sancay said in an interview on the
sidelines of a Euromoney conference in Istanbul on Feb. 7.  “We are aiming to invest between $30 million to $60
million in assets, which may correspond to an enterprise value
of as much as $150 million,” Sancay said. Enterprise value is
the benchmark used in most mergers and acquisitions to determine
the price of a company and is the sum of its debt and equity
value.  “We can make two or three investments in six months, after
the fund has been raised,” Sancay said. “We have screened 25
companies so far, and negotiations are in advanced stages with 8
of them. Even before we raise the fund, we can do some co-
investments.”  BC Partners Ltd., Abraaj Capital Ltd. and  Carlyle Group  are
among international  private equity  firms that have invested in
Turkey in recent years as companies seek to tap the country’s
$735 billion economy, which grew 8.2 percent in the third
quarter of 2011, the fastest increase among Group of 20
countries after  China . Ernst & Young expects mergers and
acquisitions in Turkey to rise to $20 billion this year from $14
billion in 2011.  Bosphera prefers to be majority stakeholder in any
investment, and is looking at companies in the retail, energy
equipment and services, healthcare and food industries, Sancay
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  