-- Bovespa Futures Gain on Lower Inflation, Interest-Rate Outlook
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-02-09T12:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/bovespa-futures-gain-on-lower-inflation-interest-rate-outlook.html
Bovespa futures gained, a sign the
stock gauge may rebound from yesterday’s drop, after inflation
slowed more than forecast in  Sao Paulo ,  Brazil ’s biggest city,
spurring speculation policy makers will have more room to lower
borrowing costs to shore up growth.  Card-payment processor  Cielo SA (CIEL3)  may move after it reported
fourth-quarter net income of 504.5 million reais ($292.6
million), exceeding forecasts.  Cia. Energetica de Minas Gerais ,
a state-controlled electricity utility, may be active after it
agreed to buy 40 percent of gas distributor Gas Brasiliano
Distribuidora SA from  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) .  Bovespa futures rose less than 0.1 percent to 65,850 at
10:47 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real weakened 0.2 percent to 1.7248
per  U.S. dollar .  Consumer prices, as measured by the Foundation Economics
Research Institute in Sao Paulo, climbed 0.42 percent in the
four weeks ended Feb. 7, below the median estimate of a 0.57
percent increase among 19 analysts polled by Bloomberg.  “The latest inflation figures have come in better than
expected, which is positive for stocks, as it shows there may be
more room for further rate cuts,” Rogerio Freitas, a partner at
hedge fund Teorica Investimentos, said by phone from  Rio de
Janeiro . “This is particularly positive for companies that
depend on domestic consumption, which in this scenario of lower
borrowing costs should perform better than the market average.”  The Bovespa has advanced 16 percent this year, after
slumping 18 percent in 2011, buoyed by Brazil’s interest-rate
cuts, signs of growth in the U.S. and renewed optimism  Europe 
may be closer to solving its debt crisis. The gauge trades at
10.4 times analysts’ earnings estimates, in line with the ratio
for MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’ equities,
weekly data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Traders  moved  7.96 billion reais in stocks in Sao Paulo
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a
daily average of 6.53 billion reais this year through Feb. 3,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  