-- BP Said to Seek U.S. Settlement of Spill Pollution Claims
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2012-02-09T14:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/bp-said-to-seek-u-s-settlement-of-gulf-spill-pollution-claims.html
BP Plc  is negotiating with U.S.
officials to settle pollution claims over the 2010  Gulf of
Mexico  oil spill that may leave the company liable for as much
as $17.6 billion in fines, a person familiar with the talks
said.  The government cited the energy company with violations of
the federal Clean Water Act for the offshore spill, the biggest
in U.S. history. Officials are seeking fines of as much as
$4,300 for each of the 4.1 million barrels spilled after the
explosion of the BP-leased Deepwater Horizon oil rig.  The company is also in settlement talks with other firms
tied to the spill, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the matter isn’t public. BP is set to begin a
Feb. 27 trial in  New Orleans  federal court in which it and other
companies will face claims by business owners and residents from
the region who had their property and livelihoods damaged or
destroyed. The Macondo well blowout killed 11 people, sullied
hundreds of miles of coastline and damaged fishing and tourism.  The trial before U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  will
unify hundreds of lawsuits by fishermen, tour operators and
state and local governments. BP, meanwhile, is seeking to shift
some of the blame, and damages claims, onto co-defendant
companies which helped drill and operate the well.  The Clean Water Act allows the government to seek fines of
$1,100 per barrel of oil spilled automatically. That can rise to
as much as $4,300 a barrel if a judge finds the company was
grossly negligent in allowing the pollution to occur.  Calculating Penalties  At $1,100 a barrel, the maximum penalty would be $4.51
billion using the government’s estimate of barrels spilled. A
finding of gross negligence would boost that to $17.6 billion.  Daren Beaudo, a BP spokesman, declined to comment on
settlement talks.  BP needs to settle  Clean Water Act  claims before a trial
over its level of culpability for the spill, said David Uhlmann,
former head of the U.S. Justice Department’s environmental-
crimes unit.  “There’s no rational justification for going to trial,”
said Uhlmann, now a law professor at the University of  Michigan .
The incentive for “BP is overwhelming for a settlement.”  The settlement cost for London-based BP,  Europe ’s second-
largest oil company, may reach $25 billion on government claims
alone, including as much as $10 billion for Clean Water Act
violations, Uhlmann said.  Beyond the Clean Water Act, the company may also pay a $10
billion criminal fine and another $5 billion in natural-resource
damages payments to the U.S. and the Gulf Coast states, he said.  Already Settled  BP has already settled with Anadarko Petroleum Corp. and
Mitsui & Co.’s Moex Offshore LLC unit, partners in the well, and
with  Cameron International Corp. (CAM) , which provided blowout-
prevention equipment. Anadarko agreed to pay $4 billion to BP,
while Moex paid $1 billion and Cameron $250 million.  Those settlements let BP lower its reserve to cover costs
related to the sinking of the rig to $37.2 billion from more
than $40 billion, the company said this month.  BP reported Feb. 7 that its fourth-quarter  net income  rose
to $7.7 billion from $5.6 billion a year earlier. BP shares,
which climbed 1.1 percent to 494.9 pence at 1:55 p.m. in  London ,
had  gained  6.4 percent this year before today.  BP will probably resolve all litigation with co-defendants
 Transocean Ltd.  and  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  before trial rather than
face them as opponents in court, said  Anthony Sabino , a law
professor at  St. John’s University  in  New York .  “It’s always a smart strategy to reduce the number of your
adversaries before trial, especially if it’s a codefendant that
might heap blame upon you,” Sabino said. “You settle as soon
as you can as best as you can with the adversaries who can do
you the most damage.”  Hundreds of Lawsuits  The explosion spurred hundreds of lawsuits against  BP  as
well as Transocean, the Vernier, Switzerland-based owner and
operator of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig that exploded;
Houston-based Halliburton, which provided cementing services for
the project, and the Woodlands, Texas-based Anadarko, which
owned 25 percent of the well.  At trial, Barbier is to determine whether BP or any of the
other companies engaged in gross negligence or willful
misconduct. He won’t consider any criminal allegations.  The  Justice Department  has said it was investigating
possible criminal violations related to the blowout and spill.
None of the companies has been charged with a crime.  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman on criminal
matters, and Wyn Hornbuckle, a government spokesman on BP civil
matters, declined to comment.  Fishermen Sue  If BP settles with the federal government and its co-
defendant companies, Barbier may order mediation over the
remaining claims scheduled for trial on Feb. 27, said Sabino.  “It makes all the sense in the world to send this to
mediation,” he said.  BP is prepared to settle with other parties before trial if
the conditions are right, Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley 
told Bloomberg Television Feb. 7.  “With a reasonable settlement, we will settle,” he said.
“If it’s not a reasonable settlement, we’ll go to court.”  Beverly Stafford, a spokeswoman for Halliburton, and Jared
Allen, a spokesman for Transocean, declined to comment on
settlement talks. Transocean and Anadarko also face Clean Water
Act violations.  Quick Settlement  The U.S. may also want a quick settlement of the Clean
Water Act claims as much as BP -- before Barbier rules on gross
negligence, Sabino said.  The government would “hate to have a precedent against
them on the books,” he said. Even if Barbier ruled for the
U.S., the government could lose on appeal, he added.  “An adverse ruling against them would have a bad effect
for decades,” in terms of U.S. environmental law enforcement,
he said. “The smart move is to settle.”  The states who have filed lawsuits over the spill, however,
may balk at an early settlement of so-called natural-resource
damages claims tied to the destruction of the environment in
gulf states, according to  Alabama  Attorney General Luther Strange and  Louisiana  Attorney General  Buddy Caldwell .  “We are open to settlement if it’s fair to Alabama,” said
Strange in an interview.  Under federal pollution law, responsible companies are
required to restore natural resources to a pre-spill condition.
The states are trying to avoid settling before the full extent
of such costs is known, Caldwell said in an interview.  More Suits  A settlement with the U.S. wouldn’t resolve disputes
between BP and the other companies over how to apportion blame
for the blowout and spill.  “BP’s No. 1 priority is to resolve its litigation with
Halliburton and Transocean,” said David Berg, a Houston-based
trial lawyer who doesn’t have a stake in the case. BP can’t go
to trial with codefendants pointing fingers at it, he said. It
provides too much ammunition for plaintiffs’ attorneys, he said.  Transocean and Halliburton may settle pollution claims by
the U.S. government after BP does, using the U.K.-based oil
company’s payment as a guideline for negotiations, Sabino said.  Barbier has already ruled that provisions in the drilling
contract require BP to pay any direct damage claims against
Transocean and Halliburton.  Lawsuits by businesses and property owners will be the last
to settle, Uhlmann predicted.  “BP will be more than willing to go to trial with victims
who have spurned the Gulf Coast Claims Facility and sued,” he
said. The facility is an out-of-court body set up by BP to
resolve claims brought by parties alleging harm from the spill.  Single-Digit Billions  Any compensatory damages for the victims who haven’t
settled through the facility would probably be “in the single-
digit billions,” he said.  Punitive damages, meant to punish defendants rather than
directly compensate victims, are limited by the amount of
compensatory damages, Uhlmann said, citing a U.S. Supreme Court
decision in the lawsuit over the 1989  oil spill  caused by the
grounding of the Exxon Valdez off the coast of  Alaska .  BP and the other defendants would be better off settling
all the litigation before trial, Berg said.  “This is not something that anyone wants to try,” he
said. “The stakes are too high.”  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 2-10-md-1979,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net  and;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at   allenmct@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  