-- BP Wins Bid to Bar Prior Bad Acts From Gulf Oil Spill Trial
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2012-02-10T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/bp-wins-bid-to-keep-prior-penalties-out-of-gulf-oil-spill-trial.html
BP Plc (BP/)  persuaded a judge to bar the
introduction of evidence of previous accidents involving the  oil
company  from this month’s trial over fault for the 2010  Gulf of
Mexico  blast and oil spill.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans granted a
BP motion blocking the introduction of exhibits pertaining to
prior industrial accidents, including the 2005 explosion at BP’s
Texas City, Texas, refinery and a 2006 oil spill at its Prudhoe
Bay field in Alaska.  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout and explosion killed 11
workers and caused the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history.
The accident spurred hundreds of lawsuits against BP and its
partners, including  Transocean (RIG)  Ltd., the Switzerland-based owner
and operator of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig that
exploded,  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing services for
the project, and Anadarko, the owner of 25 percent of the well.  “The prior incidents were all land-based, while the
Macondo incident occurred in the Gulf of Mexico,” Barbier said.
The circumstances of those accidents were “vastly different,”
he said.  In an accompanying decision, Barbier said 2010
congressional testimony by former BP Chief Executive Officer
Tony Hayward and Halliburton engineer Jesse Gagliano were
potentially admissible as prior inconsistent statements if they
conflicted with other trial evidence or as admissions.  Ellen Moskowitz, a spokeswoman for London-based BP,
declined to comment.  Gulf Businesses  Thousands of property owners and businesses on the Gulf
claim economic and environmental harm from the spill. The U.S.
sued BP,  Anadarko (APC)  and Transocean in December 2010, alleging
violations of federal pollution laws. The coastal states
 Louisiana ,  Alabama  and  Mississippi  also sued the companies.  The suits are consolidated before Barbier and a non-jury
trial is set to begin on Feb. 27.  BP asked the judge in November to bar the plaintiffs
steering committee, which represents the non-government
claimants, from using evidence of the prior incidents in the
trial over fault for the explosion and sinking of the rig.  BP argued the plaintiffs’ lawyers were trying to introduce
the prior accidents to show “bad character” on the part of the
company.  Barbier disagreed.  ‘Not Valid’  “These are not valid concerns in the context of a non-jury
trial,” he wrote. “However, the court is greatly concerned
about considerations of ‘‘undue delay, waste of time, and
presentation of cumulative evidence.’’’  The judge’s rulings yesterday prevent the evidence from
being shown in what he labeled the Phase I trial, which will
determine the legal responsibility for the blast as well as the
ensuing fire and sinking of the drilling rig.  ‘‘It may be that some of this evidence will become more
relevant and admissible at a later phase, e.g., if and when the
court is required to consider the quantum of punitive damages or
the assessment of CWA penalties,’’ Barbier wrote, referring to
the  Clean Water Act .  ‘‘The court indicates the evidence will likely be
admissible to establish the basis of expert opinions regarding
the process safety that should have been, but was not, in place
at Macondo,’’ Steve Herman, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said in
an e-mailed statement reacting to Barbier’s rulings.  The evidence could become relevant and admissible at a
later punitive damages phase, the attorney said.  ‘Mountain of Evidence’  ‘‘There is a mountain of independent evidence to show that
BP was irresponsible grossly negligent at Macondo -- and it will
be admissible,’’ Herman said.  The  Texas  City refinery explosion killed 15 workers and
injured hundreds. BP pleaded guilty to a violation of the  Clean
Air Act  and paid a $50 million fine.  In his other ruling yesterday, Barbier excluded a March
2007 report on the Texas City accident issued by the  U.S.
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board .  That 2005 land accident wasn’t ‘‘substantially similar’’ to
the Deepwater Horizon incident, Barbier said. He also blocked
admission during Phase I of a report by the National Commission
on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling.  The company was also fined $87 million in 2009 by the U.S.
Occupational Safety and Health Administration over safety
shortfalls at the Texas City refinery. Barbier yesterday barred
admission of an OSHA briefing from that incident.  After the Alaska spill, BP pleaded guilty in 2007 to a
violation of the Clean Water Act and paid $20 million in
penalties after 200,000 gallons of oil from its Prudhoe Bay
field flowed into water on Alaska’s North Slope in 2006.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at   allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  