-- Brasil Travel Cancels IPO After Investors Demand Owners Retain More Shares
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-02-09T22:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/brasil-travel-cancels-ipo-after-investors-demand-owners-retain-more-shares.html
Brasil Travel Turismo e Participacoes
SA  canceled an initial public offering after investors demanded
current shareholders hold on to a bigger stake in the company.  The cancellation was due to “unfavorable” market
conditions, the company said today in a regulatory filing.  Brasil Travel said earlier in the day that its offering
would be postponed a day as potential investors demanded that
the company’s current owners adopt rules that would require them
to retain shares equal to 50 percent of the amount they’re
selling for at least six months, compared with 15 percent
previously. The owners would have been allowed to sell as much
as 40 percent of their stakes during the following six months.  The investors wanted current shareholders to show more
commitment to the company, said a person with direct knowledge
of the offering who asked not to be identified because he isn’t
authorized to speak about the matter. Brasil Travel, a group of
35 travel agencies in  Brazil , had planned to use funds raised in
the offering to expand through acquisitions.  A  prospectus  filed last month put the IPO price range at
1,250 reais to 1,650 reais per share. Brasil Travel said it
planned to offer as many as 859,100 common shares, with 568,700
sold by existing investors.  Credit Suisse Group AG was coordinating the sale with
 Barclays Capital , Banco Santander SA and Flow Corretora de
Mercadorias.  IPO Market  Brasil Travel’s IPO would have been the first such offering
in  Latin America ’s  largest equity market  since July. The company
expected to benefit from an anticipated boom in Brazil’s tourism
industry as the nation renovates roads and airports to host the
2014  Soccer World Cup  and 2016 Summer Olympics. Rival CVC Brasil
Operadora e Agencia de Viagens SA filed to sell shares with the
securities regulator in August, without setting a time frame.  Brazilian companies are waiting to complete initial public
offerings totaling as much as $28 billion as foreigners resume
buying stocks from the country after demand plunged last year,
Eduardo Refinetti Guardia, BM&FBovespa SA’s chief financial
officer, said Feb 7.  About 40 companies are ready to go public with IPOs
averaging $600 million to $700 million as market conditions
improve, Guardia said in an interview in  London . BM&FBovespa is
the operator of Latin America’s biggest securities exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  