-- British Land Asset Values Stagnate as Retail Gloom Hurts Shopping Centers
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-02-09T17:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/british-land-asset-values-stagnate-as-retail-gloom-hurts-shopping-centers.html
British Land Co. (BLND) , the U.K.’s second-
largest real estate investment trust, said third-quarter net
asset value stagnated as its retail properties depreciated. The
shares declined as much as 2.3 percent.  Net asset value  rose to 593 pence a share from 591 pence
three months earlier, the London-based company said in a
statement today. Net income fell to 68 million pounds ($108
million) from 261 million pounds a year earlier.  The results “represent the first reversal seen in values
in the retail segment by a major company’s portfolio” in the
U.K., said  Alan Carter , an analyst at Investec Securities in
London.  The  British Retail Consortium  said Feb. 7 that January was
the second worst on record as inflation, unemployment and taxes
undermined  consumer spending . That’s making it harder for
landlords to demand higher rents from retail tenants, making
appraisers adjust the estimated values of shopping centers.
Retail properties represent 61 percent of British Land’s assets.  British Land fell 11 pence, or 2.2 percent, to 497 pence at
4:30 p.m. close in London, the biggest decline among the 11
stocks in the FTSE 350 Real Estate Investment Trust Index. The
shares have dropped 6 percent in the past six months, more than
double the index’s decline.  Big-box retail warehouses depreciated by 0.6 percent and
shopping centers by 0.3 percent in the final quarter of last
year, reducing the value of British Land’s retail assets to 6.3
billion pounds, the company said today.  New Office Space  Offices appreciated by 1.1 percent, the company said.
British Land has projects in central  London  that will add 2.2
million square feet (204,000 square meters) of office space
through 2014.  Lower asset values affected individual properties, though
not all of them, Chief Executive Officer Chris Grigg said on a
conference call. He declined to comment on reports that he plans
to sell a 25 percent stake in the Meadowhall mall in Sheffield,
 England .  “The sector may wobble on this,” Carter said, because 60
percent of assets owned by the U.K.’s four largest REITs are
retail-related. The analyst has a “buy” recommendation on
British Land shares because of its “defensive” position.  The slowdown in property values overshadowed an 11 percent
rise in profit excluding one-time items and property values.  Profit excluding changes in asset values and one-time items
increased to 69 million pounds, or 7.5 pence a share, in the
three months through December from 62 million pounds, or 7
pence, a year earlier.  Higher Rents  Net rental income rose by 5.3 percent, the result of 332
million pounds of acquisitions in the fiscal first half, higher
rents charged in lease renewals and income generated by new or
additional space in stores and offices.  The company’s acquisitions since March 31, 2011 include 17
Virgin Active fitness centers and refurbished residences in the
 City of London  financial district.  Excluding acquisitions and disposals, rental income rose by
1 million pounds in the quarter, Chief Financial Officer Lucinda Bell said on the conference call.  Net debt  rose to 4.91 billion pounds from 4.84 billion
pounds three months earlier. Debt represented 45.6 percent of
the value of British Land’s real estate, from 45 percent at the
end of September.  The company will pay a third-quarter  dividend  of 6.5 pence
a share, taking the total payout for the three quarters of
fiscal 2011 to 19.5 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 