-- Buffett Says Bonds Among Most Dangerous Assets on Inflation
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-02-09T14:57:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/buffett-says-bonds-are-among-most-dangerous-assets-on-low-rates-inflation.html
Warren Buffett , the billionaire
chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., said low interest rates and
inflation should dissuade investors from buying bonds and other
holdings tied to currencies.  “They are among the most dangerous of assets,” Buffett
said in an adaptation of his  annual letter  to shareholders that
appeared today on Fortune magazine’s website. “Over the past
century these instruments have destroyed the purchasing power of
investors in many countries, even as these holders continued to
receive timely payments of interest and principal.”  Buffett, 81, who built Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire from
a failing textile maker into a firm selling insurance, energy
and jewelry through acquisitions and stock picks, echoed
Laurence D. Fink, chief executive officer of BlackRock Inc. Fink
said this week that investors should be 100 percent in equities,
because of depressed stock valuations and the  Federal Reserve ’s
pledge to keep  interest rates  low.  “High  interest rates , of course, can compensate purchasers
for the inflation risk they face with currency-based investments
-- and indeed, rates in the early 1980s did that job nicely,”
Buffett wrote. “Current rates, however, do not come close to
offsetting the purchasing-power risk that investors assume.
Right now bonds should come with a warning label.”  The Fed has kept borrowing costs near zero, and said last
month that economic conditions may warrant “exceptionally low
levels” for rates through at least late 2014 to boost the
economy and put more Americans back to work. Buffett said other
currency-based investments that may pose a risk include money-
market funds, mortgages and  bank deposits .  IBM, Coca-Cola  Berkshire still holds bonds, primarily Treasuries, for
liquidity, and has a preference to invest in companies by buying
them outright or acquiring stock, Buffett said. The firm
purchased Lubrizol Corp. for about $9 billion and took a more
than $10 billion stake in International Business Machines Corp.
last year.  Berkshire had more than $68 billion of  equities  as of Sept.
30 including the largest stakes in Coca-Cola Co. and  Wells Fargo
& Co ., the biggest U.S. bank by market value. Fixed-maturity
investments of about $34 billion included holdings of government
debt, corporate bonds and mortgage-backed securities.  Cash (BRK/A)  and
cash equivalents were about $34.8 billion.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has climbed 7.3 percent
this year through yesterday after being little changed in 2011.
 Yields (USGG10YR)  on 10-year Treasuries rose above 2 percent for the first
time in two weeks yesterday after touching a record low of 1.67
percent in September.  ‘The Fearful’  Buffett said investors should avoid gold, because its uses
are limited and it doesn’t have the potential of farmland or
companies to produce new wealth. Achieving a long-term gain on
the metal requires an “expanding pool of buyers” who believe
the group will increase further, he said.  “What motivates most gold purchasers is their belief that
the ranks of the fearful will grow,” he wrote. “During the
past decade that belief has proved correct. Beyond that, the
rising price has on its own generated additional buying
enthusiasm, attracting purchasers who see the rise as validating
an investment thesis. As ‘bandwagon’ investors join any party,
they create their own truth -- for a while.”  Gold prices have climbed to more than $1,700 an ounce from
less than $300 in the last decade, as investors sought safety in
bullion.  Buffett uses his annual letter to Berkshire shareholders to
opine on the economy, the firm’s operating units, corporate
governance and other issues. The full document accompanies
financial statements and will probably be released later this
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  