-- Bumi’s Largest Holders ‘Confident’ of Ousting Rothschild
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2012-02-10T06:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/bumi-s-largest-shareholders-confident-of-ousting-rothschild.html
Bumi Plc (BUMI) ’s two largest shareholders
are “absolutely confident” that investors will support a
proposal to replace the directors of the coal mining company,
including billionaire founder  Nathaniel Rothschild .  Bumi, listed in London by Rothschild, said Feb. 3 that
shareholder Borneo Bumi Energi & Metal Ltd. called a meeting to
seek the removal co-Chairman Rothschild and Chief Executive
Officer Ari Hudaya. Rothschild said last month that relations
with Chairman Indra Bakrie had improved after he previously
criticized Bakrie’s coal company PT Bumi Resources.  “It’s important to have a manageable-sized board that
understands the asset and understands the complexity of
 Indonesia ,” Chris Fong, Bakrie Group’s spokesman, said in an
interview in London yesterday. “We’re very confident that
common sense will prevail and shareholders will see our view
that we’re doing the right thing.”  Borneo Bumi Energi is seeking to appoint Bakrie and Samin
Tan as chairmen of Bumi. Tan is president director of PT  Borneo
Lumbung (BORN)  Energi & Metal, which bought a stake in Bumi last month.
The company also proposed to oust fellow founder  James Campbell ,
a former Anglo American Plc executive, Chief Financial Officer
Andrew Beckham and directors Badung Tariono and Amir Sambodo.  Bumi  shares  slipped 0.5 percent to 746 pence yesterday in
London. They’ve fallen 16 percent since news of the meeting
broke. Bumi Resources fell as much as 6.1 percent to 2,325
rupiah in Jakarta, the biggest decline in more than three months,
and traded at 2,350 rupiah at 11:29 a.m. local time.  ‘Stop Damaging Company’  “Investors do not appear to share Borneo and Bakrie’s
confidence about their proposal,” a spokesman for Rothschild
who declined to be named said by e-mail. The move has “been
disastrous for  shareholder value  and we expect that investors
will make their views clear. We urge the Bakries and Mr. Tan to
see sense and stop damaging the company.”  Ties with Rothschild were weakened in November when he made
public a letter to CEO Hudaya calling for a “radical cleaning
up” of Jakarta-based coal producer  Bumi Resources (BUMI) , in which
Bumi Plc owns a 29 percent stake. Rothschild is a former co-
chairman of New York hedge-fund firm Atticus Capital LLC and the
son of U.K. financier  Jacob Rothschild .  Rothschild wrote his letter a week after PT Bakrie &
Brothers, a unit of Bakrie Group, agreed Nov. 1 to sell half its 
stake in Bumi Plc for $1 billion in cash to help pay a loan to 
Credit Suisse Group AG.  ‘Hope Has Vanished’  “We had expected Rothschild’s presence would help improve
corporate governance at the Bakrie Group, Bumi Plc and its
subsidiaries including Bumi Resources,” said Frederick Daniel Tanggela, an analyst at PT Bahana Securities in Jakarta, who has
a “hold” rating on the Indonesian unit. “But with the effort
to oust Rothschild that hope has vanished.”  Rothschild, whose ancestor helped bankroll Britain’s war
against Napoleonic  France , raised 707.2 million pounds ($1.1
billion) in the 2010 initial public offering of Vallar Plc,
which became Bumi after a $3 billion transaction involving
Bakrie Group in November 2010.  “We wanted a board that is more harmonious than in the
past,” Ken Allen, marketing director for Borneo, said in London.
“It was thought that we needed to have the board focused and
not distracted by any other interests. The focus is on Indonesia
and the board have to have that expertise in Indonesia, and
knowledge of Indonesia.”  Bakrie Group and Borneo Lumbung jointly own a 47.6 percent
stake in Bumi Plc, according to Bakrie & Brothers.  “We’re absolutely confident that we’ll get the support,”
Fong said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in  London  at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  