-- Bunker-Buster Bomb Improvements Sought by Pentagon Win Approval
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-02-09T19:04:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/bunker-buster-bomb-improvements-sought-by-pentagon-win-approval.html
The Pentagon won congressional
approval to shift $81.6 million in funds to improve the
military’s largest conventional weapon, the 30,000-pound
 Boeing Co. (BA)  Massive Ordnance Penetrator, known as the 
bunker-buster bomb.  The Senate defense appropriations subcommittee on Feb. 7
became the fourth and final defense panel to approve the shift
from programs deemed less important, Pentagon spokeswoman
Lieutenant Colonel Elizabeth Robbins said today in an e-mail.
‘It was an urgent request,” Robbins said without elaboration.  The move to improve the bomb shortly after the Air Force
took delivery may have been triggered by Iran’s announcement
Jan. 9 that it would begin  uranium enrichment  at the Fordow
facility near Qom that’s tunneled into mountains, said  Kenneth Katzman , a Middle East military analyst for the non-partisan
Congressional Research Service.  “This is a very hard target, and the international
community believes that if  Iran  were to attempt a nuclear
breakout, it would be conducted at this site,” Katzman said of
the enrichment activity, which could be used to produce enough
material for a nuclear device. Iran says its nuclear program is
for civilian uses.  The Pentagon request to upgrade the bomb was submitted 11
days after the  International Atomic Energy Agency  confirmed the
enrichment activity. The location at Qom is 90 meters (295 feet)
under rock, said  David Albright , founder and president of the
Institute for Science and International Security in Washington.  Tail Fin, Fuse  Pentagon Comptroller Robert Hale said in a Jan. 20 request
to Congress that the money was needed to “fix issues identified
in testing, including tail-fin modifications and integrating a
second fuse, enhance weapon capabilities, build test targets and
conduct live weapon testing. The request funds the immediate
requirement to support the desired upgrade schedule,” Hale
wrote.  Boeing, based in  Chicago , is manufacturing the bomb, which
was successfully demonstrated in March 2007.  The  Air Force  took delivery in September of the first of 20
bombs built to fit in the B-2 stealth bomber. The bomb is six
times bigger than the 5,000-pound (2,268 kilogram) bunker-buster
that the U.S. Air Force and the Israeli Air Force have to attack
deeply buried nuclear, biological or chemical sites.  A December 2007 story by the Air Force News Service said
the new bomb has a hardened-steel casing and can reach targets
as far as 200 feet underground before exploding.  The 20.5-foot-long bomb carries more than 5,300 pounds of
explosives and is guided by Global Positioning System
satellites, according to a description on the website of the
Pentagon’s Defense Threat Reduction Agency.  An Air Force  fact sheet  says “final system refinement,
design and test will be complete in 2012, with additional
deliveries in 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  