-- Callas Battles Onassis as Tyne Daly Plays Diva: London Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-02-09T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/callas-battles-onassis-as-tyne-daly-plays-role-of-fiery-diva-london-stage.html
Ugly dumpling  Maria Callas  lost
almost a hundred pounds and transformed herself into a beautiful
diva. She ditched her dull husband and hooked up with the
dangerous  Aristotle Onassis , who then abandoned her. Callas died
lonely, a recluse. Someone should write an opera about it.  They haven’t, so an alternative is to see Tyne Daly in
“Master Class,” Terrence McNally’s 1995 play about Callas.
It’s at the Vaudeville Theatre in London, having transferred
from Broadway.  This is one of those performances where you can’t quite
believe you’re watching an actor, so complete and detailed is
the portrait. From the inflection of a Greek-American-British-
Italian vowel (Callas invented her own accent, as she invented
many other things about herself) to the haughty snap of a
handbag clasp, everything springs from a core of truth.  It’s all the more remarkable since the hefty Daly looks
nothing like Callas, and her wig and costume need improvements.
Her eyeliner stripes go so far sideways it looks like she’s
trying to join them up at the back of her head. It doesn’t
matter. Like the great diva, she makes you believe in her by the
force of her talent and wit.  Callas gave a series of master classes at  Juilliard School 
in  New York  in 1970-71, and McNally takes this idea as the
starting point for his play. In between discussing the arias
performed by three students, Callas reminisces about her
hardships in  Athens  during the war, her difficult mother, her
teacher, her rivals.  “Joan Sutherland?” she says with a pitying shrug. “She
did her best.”  Upstaging Students  There are plenty of laughs along the way, some generated by
Callas’s grand manner. “Don’t look at me. I’m invisible. I’m
not here,” she tells the audience before the students sing.
Then she proceeds to upstage them one by one.  The set is a simple dais. There’s a grand piano (ably
played by Jeremy Cohen) to accompany the students, and a high
stool for Callas. On two occasions it all slides apart to leave
Daly alone in the dark while recordings of Callas singing
Bellini and Verdi are played. During the first of these trips
into the psychological interior, Callas recalls her tortuous
relationship with Onassis, playing both sides of the arguments.  It’s a gift of a scene for a talented actor who can switch
character on a pinpoint, and Daly makes the most of it. One
moment, she’s a macho, aggressive, calculating Greek
billionaire, and the next, she’s a needy diva with an
inferiority complex. “You don’t like it when I call you my
canary, do you?” sneers Onassis with gruff glee.  Quirky Casting  If the students (two sopranos and a tenor) aren’t given
great roles, the performers still could work a bit more on them.
Some of the singing is fun. Garrett Sorenson displays a free and
ringy top B flat in his performance of the Puccini air
“Recondita armonia” and Naomi O’Connell brings fire to Verdi’s
Lady Macbeth. (Odd casting, since her biography says she’s a
mezzo, not a soprano.)  Callas’s emotional and technical critiques are right on
target, and her passionate defense of art in general and opera
in particular are some of the highlights of the show.  Then the play runs out of steam in Act 2. When the set
slides off for the second time to plunge us into the single
spotlight that is Callas’s subconscious, the device has a “here
we go again” feel. This time around, she’s spatting with her
first husband, a clingy industrialist who needs her more than
she needs him.  I suppose part of the problem with these scenes is that
they highlight the fact that this is really a giant monologue
masquerading as a play. Nothing is given the same weight as
Callas’s view of herself. If drama is the point where an
immovable object meets an irresistible force, here you only get
the latter.  Never mind. It doesn’t seem so much of a hardship with Daly
on hand to make that force seem utterly believable. Rating: ***.  “Master Class” is at the Vaudeville Theatre through April
28. Information:  http://www.nimaxtheatres.com  or
+44-844-412-4663.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in  London , at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 