-- Cameron Dismisses Argentina’s Complaint to the UN on Falkland Sovereignty
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-02-09T14:46:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/cameron-dismisses-argentina-s-complaint-to-the-un-on-falkland-sovereignty.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said no
one should doubt his determination to keep the Falkland Islands
British as he dismissed an Argentinian complaint to the  United
Nations .  The people of the Falkland Islands want to stay British and
the U.K. will defend the territory “properly” to make sure
they do so, Cameron told reporters in  Stockholm  today.  “Argentina will find when she goes to the United Nations
that it is an absolutely key part of the United Nations Charter
to support self determination,” Cameron said. “‘What we’ve
said is absolutely clear and right under the United Nations, as
long as the people of the Falkland Islands want to retain that
status, we will make sure that they do.”  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner,  Argentina ’s president, said
Feb. 7 that she will lodge a complaint with the UN Security
Council over the U.K.’s “militarization” of the southern
Atlantic Ocean around the islands. The move came after Britain
decided to send one of its newest destroyers, HMS Dauntless, to
the islands to replace an older ship and deploy  Prince William ,
a military helicopter pilot, to the region.  “We will defend the Falkland Islands properly,” Cameron
said. “I think that is very simply put, very straightforward
and shouldn’t leave anybody in any doubt about our support for
the Falkland islands, for their people and for the status they
themselves want to maintain.”  Rising Tensions  Tensions between Britain and Argentina are rising as the
30th anniversary approaches of the war between the countries
over the South Atlantic archipelago. The dispute has been
inflamed by British plans to search for oil around the
Falklands, located about 480 kilometers (280 miles) from the
South American mainland.  Argentina has said William, the second in line to the
British throne, was going to the islands, which it calls the
Malvinas, as a “conqueror.” Cameron told lawmakers on Jan. 18
that Argentina’s behavior toward the islands is “like
colonialism.”  Argentine military dictator Leopoldo Galtieri ordered the
invasion of the Falklands on April 2, 1982. Argentine troops 
were defeated by British forces on June 14 that year. The war
bolstered the government of U.K. Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher , known as “The  Iron Lady ,” and helped her win 
re-election in 1983.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net  