-- Canada Stability Will Entice Investors, Kinsale’s Franklin Says
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2012-02-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/canada-stability-will-entice-investors-kinsale-s-franklin-says.html
Canadian  capital markets  will attract
investment in 2012 due to the country’s relative stability,
Margaret Franklin, chief executive officer of Kinsale Private
Wealth Inc., said at a  Bloomberg forum  in Toronto.  With Europe undergoing a debt crisis, the U.S. facing its
own deficit problems and political risks such as revolutions in
Arab countries deterring direct investment in emerging markets,
 Canada  is seen as a haven, she said.  “Canada actually benefits from the geopolitical
circumstance,” said Franklin, whose firm oversees about C$100
million ($100 million) in Toronto. “We had our basket case
moment in the ‘90s. We have all the things the world wants.”  Canada has maintained a stable AAA credit rating from all
three major credit-assessment companies after emerging from the
recession with a lower unemployment rate and ratio of debt to
gross domestic product than most other large developed economies.
In 1993, Canada had the second-highest national debt relative to
the size of its economy in the Group of Seven, behind  Italy ’s,
according to the  Organization of Economic Cooperation and
Development .  No Solution  Progress in addressing Europe’s debt crisis won’t stem the
risks in other countries, Franklin said at Bloomberg’s
Conquering Volatile Markets forum late yesterday, which was
conducted in partnership with the Toronto CFA Society and Women
in Capital Markets.  “There’s worse to come,” she said. “Once Europe starts
to have some tangible and concrete resolution the investor
community can latch on to, they will quickly zip over to the
U.S., which hasn’t managed to deal with any of its structural
issues with regard to its  deficit .”  While sovereign-debt problems aren’t going away, Canada
should benefit from economic growth in its two largest trading
partners, the U.S. and  China , said Dawn Desjardins, assistant
chief economist at  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  in Toronto.  “The  U.S. economy  is building some momentum,” she said.
“ China’s economy , while it is slowing, is not headed for a hard
landing. Canada’s in good shape to have an above-trend year for
growth.”  Copper Producers  Base-metals stocks are particularly attractive, said Susan Streeter, managing director for institutional equity research at
Cormark Securities Inc. China and the U.S. are the world’s two
biggest users of industrial metals.  “You’ve seen LME inventories come off,” she said,
referring to the London Metal Exchange. “There’s been
restocking in China. The valuations of the copper producers, for
example, versus where they’ve been historically on a  cash-flow 
basis have been pretty attractive.”  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) , Canada’s largest base-metals and coal
producer, trades at 9.2 percent below its five-year average
 price relative to cash flow , according to Bloomberg data.  Raw-materials and energy producers make up 48 percent of
Canadian stocks by market value, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  