-- Canada’s Harper Reaches Pact With China on Uranium Sale
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-02-09T21:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/canada-s-harper-reaches-pact-with-china-on-uranium-exports.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  reached agreements with  China  to facilitate uranium
exports and  air travel  as part of efforts to deepen ties.  Harper and Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  announced a pact that
will give Canadian uranium producers more access to China’s
civilian nuclear power industry, according to a joint statement
released by Harper’s office. Canada is home to the world’s
largest uranium producer, Cameco Corp. No details of the
agreement were provided.  “This agreement will help Canadian uranium companies to
substantially increase exports to China, the world’s fastest
growing market for these products,” Harper said in a statement.
“It will generate jobs here at home while contributing to the
use of clean reliable energy in China.”  Harper, who is on a four-day visit to China, is seeking to
attract Chinese investment in  Canada ’s natural resources and
sell more energy to  Asia , while winning business in China for
Canadian companies. The two countries announced an investment
protection pact Feb. 8.  “I think Canada-China relations are continuing along a
very positive route,” Harper said after meeting President  Hu
Jintao  yesterday. “We are reaching a new level.”  Wen, who met Harper in Beijing on Feb. 8, called for
discussions on a possible free trade agreement, the Xinhua News
Agency reported yesterday. He said China is “ready to expand
imports of energy and resource products from Canada” and boost
cooperation in areas including renewable energy and the peaceful
use of nuclear power, according to Xinhua.  Deals Signed  Chinese companies signed about $3 billion of deals with
their Canadian counterparts in aviation, finance, rail transit
mining, telecommunications, environmental protection, education
and drugs, Xinhua said, without providing details. Harper met
Vice Premier Li Keqiang briefly before the fifth China-Canadian
Business Forum, at which the deals were signed, it said.  The two countries will seek “exploratory discussions” to
deepen economic and trade ties after a joint working group study
is completed in March, according to yesterday’s statement.  China, the world’s biggest energy user, is seeking to
secure uranium supplies as it builds additional reactors. There
are 434 operable reactors around the world and 61 under
construction, according to the  World Nuclear Association . China
is building 26, plans to construct another 51 and has proposed
120 others, according to the association.  Cameco Corp. (CCO)  Chief Executive Tim Gitzel was part of
Harper’s delegation on the China trip. He said yesterday’s pact
will allow the company to move ahead with supply agreements
signed in 2010 to sell about 52 million pounds of uranium for
Chinese reactors, deals worth as much as $3 billion.  ‘Opens the Door’  “We couldn’t deliver Canadian uranium here until this
agreement was signed so it opens the door for us to do that,”
Gitzel said.  In a separate interview with Bloomberg, Gitzel said demand
for uranium may grow by about 3 percent a year in the next few
years. China is showing “strong growth” in nuclear-reactor
construction, he said.  The two countries yesterday also announced an agreement to
reduce restrictions on flight travel that will allow more
flexibility in pricing and let  China Southern Airlines Co. (1055)  ship
freight to the U.S. through Canada, according to the statement.
Canada and China also agreed to update their  tax treaty  to
reduce rates of withholding taxes that apply to cross-border
payments and eliminate double taxation for individuals and
companies.  “Canada has the resources, technological sophistication,
and geo-strategic positioning to complement China’s economic
growth strategy,” Harper told a business audience in Beijing
after meeting Li and Hu. “And China’s growth, in turn,
complements our determination to diversify our export markets.”  China also pledged to work with Canada to resolve
agriculture market access issues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  