-- Canada’s Surpeme Court Rules ISPs Shouldn’t Be Regulated as Broadcasters
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-02-09T16:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/canada-s-surpeme-court-rules-isps-shouldn-t-be-regulated-as-broadcasters.html
Canada’s Supreme Court ruled that
Internet service providers such as  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) 
and  BCE Inc. (BCE)  shouldn’t be regulated as broadcasters when they
offer video and audio content online.  The country’s broadcasting law isn’t meant to “capture
entities which merely provide the mode of transmission,” such
as companies that offer  Internet access , the court said in a
unanimous  judgment .  The ruling may enable companies such as Rogers to contain
costs as they look to expand offerings of on-demand TV shows and
movies, and consumers spend more time watching video over the
Internet.  The Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications
 Commission , which oversees conventional broadcasters, asked the
Federal Court of Appeal to rule on whether Internet service
providers should be regulated as such when they provide access
to content such as television shows and movies online.  The appeals court concluded that ISPs shouldn’t be
considered broadcasters in such situations. Groups representing
actors, musicians, writers and other content producers  appealed 
the decision to the  Supreme Court , noting that consumers are
increasingly watching TV programs and listening to radio over
the Internet.  The  Alliance  of Canadian Cinema, Television and Radio
Artists proposed that ISPs pay a levy to fund development and
production of Canadian content. Conventional broadcasters
already pay such fees.  ‘Content-Neutral Conduits’  A consortium of companies, including Rogers and Bell,
argued that ISPs are “merely content-neutral conduits for
content provided by others.”  The CRTC decided in 1999 that it would exempt content
offered online or through mobile devices from the country’s
broadcasting regulations. While the regulator  reaffirmed  that
decision in 2009, it asked the Federal Court of Appeal for a
ruling on the issue.  The country’s  Broadcasting Act  attempts to promote Canadian
content, the Supreme Court noted in its judgment, adding that
 Internet service providers  don’t contribute to the goal of this
policy.  The case number is 33884 on the Supreme Court’s docket.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  