-- Capello’s Exit Puts Redknapp Within Reach of England Soccer Coaching Job
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-02-09T12:58:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/capello-s-exit-puts-redknapp-within-reach-of-england-soccer-coaching-job.html
Fabio Capello quit as coach of the
England soccer team last night, opening the way for the possible
appointment of Tottenham coach  Harry Redknapp  four months before
the start of Euro 2012.  Capello’s resignation was accepted late yesterday by
executives from the Football Association hours after Redknapp,
the bookmakers’ favorite to replace him, was cleared of tax
evasion in a trial in  London . Capello left after the F.A.
removed John Terry as team captain without consulting him.  “It’s regrettable when a manager leaves like this,” F.A.
Chairman David Bernstein said in a news conference today at
Wembley Stadium. “Fabio had a great record.”  Terry, a Chelsea defender, faces criminal charges of
racially abusing Anton Ferdinand of Queens Park Rangers in a
Premier League match in October. The delay of his hearing until
after June’s European Championship prompted the F.A.’s move.  Redknapp escaped a possible jail term yesterday when a jury
decided his use of a Monaco bank to keep $295,000 paid to him by
Sheffield Wednesday owner Milan Mandaric when they were both at
Portsmouth didn’t amount to  tax evasion .  “I’ve not even though at it, I’ve got a job to do,”
Redknapp told  Sky Sports  today when asked about the England
post. “Tottenham is my focus.”  Bernstein today refused to identify any candidates to
replace Capello, but did acknowledge the new manager wouldn’t
have to be English, one of the criticisms of Capello.  Coaching Preferences  “Clearly there is a preference for an Englishman,” he
said. “The position has not changed. There’s a preference for
an English person or a British person but in the end we want the
best person. So I’m not prepared to rule out anything at this
stage.”  Yesterday’s meeting with Bernstein and General Secretary
Alex Horne was the first face-to-face encounter between Capello
and  England  officials since Terry was stripped of the captaincy.  “We had a very frank meeting with Fabio and at the end of
it, he decided he had to go,” Bernstein said. “He offered his
resignation and I, on behalf of the board, agreed this was the
right decision for the F.A.”  Bernstein said Stuart Pearce, who’s served as Capello’s
assistant and is the manager of the England Under-21 team, will
coach the national team in its exhibition match against the
Netherlands on Feb. 29.  “He has huge experience inside and outside this
organization,” Bernstein said. “He has been working with the
Under-21 team and has been working with Fabio for some time and
knows the players.”  Reinstated  Capello reinstated Terry as captain last year after taking
away the post in 2010 over allegations of the player’s marital
infidelity with the ex-girlfriend of former teammate  Wayne Bridge . Terry denies the charges that he verbally abused
Ferdinand.  The 65-year-old Italian said in an interview in his native
language with Italpress that he was “gravely offended” by the
F.A.’s decision to remove Terry, the U.K.’s Sky News reported.
Capello’s son and agent Pierfilippo Capello said the report was
“not accurate and not true.”  The  Daily Mail  ran a headline saying, “Quit Now” a day
after Capello criticized the F.A.’s decision over Terry in an
interview with Italian broadcaster Rai.  “Gutted Capello has quit,” striker  Wayne Rooney  said on
the Twitter social media site. “Good guy and top coach. Got to
be English to replace him. Harry Redknapp for me.”  Bookmakers’ Favorite  Capello, who was hired in 2007, was to step down after the
regional championship in  Poland  and the Ukraine.  Bookmaker Coral said it’s stopped taking bets on 64-year-
old Redknapp after listing him as the 2-1 favorite before the
end of his trial. That would mean a successful $1 bet would
bring in $2 plus the original stake.  Sports data company Opta released figures saying Capello
had the best record of any England coach since World War II. He
won more than two-thirds of his matches, 5.6 percent more than
Alf Ramsey, who coached England to its only  World Cup  triumph in
1966.  Capello, who won league titles with Real Madrid, Roma,
Juventus and AC Milan, guided England to the 2010 World Cup. He
signed a new contract days before the start of the tournament in
 South Africa  and the F.A. then resisted calls to fire him
following a 4-1 defeat to  Germany  in the second round of the
event. England topped its group in qualifying for Euro 2012.  Capello may be headed back to Juventus for a managerial
position or to  Inter Milan , Italian daily la Repubblica reported
today, without saying where it got the information.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said he was sorry to see
Capello resign.  “I’m sorry to see Fabio go,” he said in  Stockholm  today.
“He was a good coach and a good man. I don’t think he was right
about the  John Terry  issue. You can’t be captain with that
question mark that needs to be answered.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 