-- Catlin Says Rate Rises May Top 17% After Worst Disaster Year
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-02-09T11:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/catlin-full-year-profit-declines-83-after-worst-disaster-year.html
Catlin Group Ltd. (CGL) , the second-biggest
Lloyd’s of London insurer by market value, said premium rates
for property catastrophe policies will rise by more than 17
percent this year as insurers try to recoup last year’s losses.  “By the time we get to the end of the year it wouldn’t
surprise me that the average weighted premiums in property cat
exceeds 17 percent, ahead of what we achieved in January,”
Chief Executive Officer Stephen Catlin said in a telephone
interview today.  Earthquakes in Japan and  New Zealand , windstorms in the
U.S. and flooding in Thailand cost insurers about $105 billion
last year, making it the industry’s most expensive year on
record, surpassing the $101 billion paid out in 2005, the year
 Hurricane Katrina  struck New Orleans, according to Munich Re.
Insurers typically seek to raise prices to make up for losses
following a costly claims period.  U.S. property treaty reinsurance rates increased 17 percent
in January, when most policies are renewed, and international
property premiums rose 12 percent, the Hamilton, Bermuda-based
firm said in a statement today. The firm’s average premium
increase of 5 percent exceeded the 4 percent rise posted by
Lloyd’s competitor  Amlin Plc (AML)  this week.  Catlin said full-year pretax profit fell to $71 million
from $406 million the previous year. That beat the $24.5 million
median estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The underlying business looks strong,”  James Shuck , a
London-based analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. with a
“buy” rating on the stock, wrote in a note to clients today.
The firm’s “reinsurance program worked well in the second half
of the year, differentiating Catlin from peers.”  The stock rose 3.6 percent to 441.7 pence at 10:31 a.m. in
 London  trading, valuing the firm at about 1.6 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  