-- CFTC Requires Registration by Mutual Funds With Commodities
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-02-09T21:41:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/cftc-requires-registration-by-mutual-funds-with-commodities-2-.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  adopted rules requiring registration by  mutual funds 
when they have investments in commodities.  The five-member commission voted 4-1 to approve the rule in
a private voting process, the agency said today.  “This rule enhances transparency in a number of ways and
increases customer protections,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler 
said in a statement.  The rule rescinds exemptions, first enacted in 2003, from
CFTC registration for mutual funds that use futures and swaps
tied to commodities. The  National Futures Association , a
Chicago-based nonprofit regulator financed by the industry,
sought the change to improve protection of retail investors.  Investment companies have “increased significantly” their
use of commodity futures, swaps and options markets since 2003,
Gensler said. “It is critical to bring the pools that have been
in the dark since 2003 back into the light so their customers
can benefit from the CFTC’s oversight.”  The  Investment Company Institute , a Washington-based trade
association that represents mutual funds, opposed the change and
said the firms are already subject to regulation by the
Securities and Exchange Commission. The CFTC unanimously
approved a proposal seeking comment on efforts to coordinate the
two agencies’ record-keeping and registration procedures.  Unnecessary ‘Burdens’  Karrie McMillan, general counsel at ICI, said in an e-mail
that the association is concerned by the “unnecessary
operational and compliance burdens it appears to impose on many
mutual fund advisers.”  Scott O’Malia , a Republican commissioner, said the rule
would remove a “major loophole” that has allowed funds to
market products to retail investors while remaining outside CFTC
oversight. Funds have obtained private-letter rulings from the
 Internal Revenue Service  allowing greater investments in
commodities through the use of foreign corporations.  The IRS has issued more than 70 such rulings since 2006,
according to Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat who leads
the Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, and
Senator  Tom Coburn , of Oklahoma, the committee’s top Republican.
Levin said last month that the IRS should permanently ban the
practice and revoke the existing rulings.  Jill E. Sommers, a Republican commissioner, said the
rationale for the rule, which wasn’t required by the 2010 Dodd-
Frank Act, is “sorely lacking.” Sommers said in a dissent that
the agency’s analysis of the costs and benefits of the rule may
not survive a court challenge.  Under the rule, funds will be required to file reports to
the CFTC about their use of leverage, exposure to risk from
trading counterparties and other investment trading data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  