-- McGuinty Says Ontario Entering Lean Times With Less Government Spending
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-02-09T19:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/mcguinty-says-ontario-entering-lean-times-with-less-government-spending.html
Ontario Premier Dalton McGuinty said
today  Canada ’s most-populous province is entering “lean times”
and that people shouldn’t expect the government to continue
spending at the rate it has in recent years.  “We’ve entered into what you might call the lean times,”
McGuinty said at a news conference after a speech in Ottawa.
“The economy’s not going to grow as quickly. We cannot invest
in new government spending to the extent we have.”  McGuinty’s remarks follow  a report  by the  Conference Board
of Canada  this month that Ontario won’t be able to eliminate its
deficit for another decade as slowing economic growth curbs
revenue. McGuinty reiterated the government’s projection that it
will eliminate its deficit by the fiscal year beginning April
2017.  Reductions in spending will require the province to examine
the wages of public-sector employees such as nurses, doctors and
teachers, McGuinty said. The government will negotiate “fairly
and firmly” with public-sector unions to keep Ontario on a
“sure and steady path” to balance the budget.  “I cannot guarantee there will be no interruption in
public services,” he said.  Ontario will release a report by former Toronto-Dominion
Bank chief economist Don Drummond on Feb. 15 about the
province’s fiscal health. The report will show that cash
transfers from the federal government don’t treat Ontario fairly
compared with other provinces. McGuinty said.  Moody’s Investors Service in December cut its outlook for
Ontario to negative and said the province needs to balance its
books and reduce its debt to avoid a rating downgrade. Moody’s
rates Ontario Aa1, its second-highest level.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  