-- Chesapeake Energy Fined $565,000 for Pennsylvania Violations
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-02-09T21:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/chesapeake-energy-fined-565-000-for-pennsylvania-violations.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the biggest
leaseholder in Pennsylvania’s Marcellus Shale, was fined
$565,000 by state officials for environmental violations,
including an April incident in which hydraulic fracturing fluids
entered a local creek.  Chesapeake, based in  Oklahoma City , was fined for three
separate violations in 2010 and 2011, the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection said in a statement
today. Chesapeake has rights to drill on 1.78 million acres in
Pennsylvania’s Marcellus, according to Bloomberg Industries.  Among the violations, Chesapeake paid $190,000 for losing
control of a wellhead for four days in April while fracking in
Bradford County, the department said. Inspectors found elevated
levels of dissolved solids, chlorides and barium in a nearby
stream, according to the statement.  The Marcellus shale formation, which stretches from  Canada 
to Kentucky, holds an estimated 141 trillion cubic feet of gas,
the U.S. Energy Department said on Jan. 23. Producers inject
water, sand and chemicals underground to release oil and gas
from the dense rock.  The other fines were for dirt at Chesapeake drilling sites
entering local streams. Chesapeake worked with the appropriate
agencies and the April incident had “no lasting environmental
impact,” the company said in a statement.  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  ordered inspections of the
site in Bradford County, which borders New York, to help his
state learn while it formulates shale-drilling rules.  Chesapeake was fined $1.09 million in May for environmental
violations related to its drilling in Pennsylvania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  