-- China Passenger Car Sales Tumble 24% on Earlier-Than-Usual Lunar New Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-09T19:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/china-january-passenger-car-sales-fall-on-lunar-new-year-holiday.html
China ’s monthly passenger-vehicle
deliveries fell the most in more than seven years after an
earlier-than-usual Lunar New Year holiday season deprived
dealers of a week’s worth of sales.  Deliveries of passenger automobiles, including multipurpose
and sport-utility vehicles, dropped 24 percent from a year
earlier to 1.16 million units last month, the  China Association
of Automobile Manufacturers  said yesterday in a statement. Sales
were projected to drop 18 percent, according to the median of a
Bloomberg News survey of five analysts who predicted declines
ranging from 8.5 percent to 30 percent.  The slump follows Chinese government estimates that holiday
sales at the nation’s main retailers and restaurants rose at
their slowest pace since the 2009 financial crisis, adding to
signs the world’s second-largest economy is cooling. Carmakers
from  General Motors Co.  to  Ford Motor Co (F) . are counting on a
rebound in February as they rely on China, the world’s biggest
auto market, to help drive earnings this year.  “Even though the actual holiday was five working days,
some dealerships took the opportunity to close their stores for
a longer time,” said Ran Fei, an analyst with Great Wall
Securities Co. in Shenzhen. “The numbers are disappointing.”  Worst Drop in Years  January’s drop was steeper than the previous record set
almost seven years ago, when February sales declined 23 percent
because the holidays occurred in January the preceding year,
according to CAAM data stretching back to 2005. The auto group
has forecast deliveries will rise 9.5 percent this year. The
Lunar New Year -- also observed in  South Korea ,  Singapore ,
 Malaysia  and  Vietnam  -- typically falls in early February.  German and U.S. carmakers gained 1.7 percentage points and
1.5 percentage points, respectively, in market share last month
at the expense of Chinese and Japanese brands, according to
CAAM’s statement yesterday.  Volkswagen ’s Passat sedan was the
top-selling sedan model in January, ahead of GM’s Buick Excelle,
Chevrolet Cruze and Sail, according to CAAM.  Consumer demand may be slowing. Holiday retail sales on the
Chinese mainland grew 16 percent to 470 billion yuan ($75
billion), or 3 percentage points below last year’s increase,
according to preliminary government data released by the
Ministry of Commerce.  Growth in total auto sales, including those of commercial
vehicles, will probably accelerate to 8 percent this year after
slowing to 2.5 percent in 2011, according to CAAM. Deliveries
last year slowed from 32 percent in 2010 after the government
withdrew a two-year package of tax breaks and rebates that
helped the country overtake the U.S.  Slower Than U.S.  Vehicle sales growth in China last year lagged behind the
U.S. for the first time in at least 14 years, according to
figures from the Chinese industry group and U.S. researcher
Autodata Corp.  Total vehicle sales fell 26 percent to 1.39 million units
last month, according to CAAM. Sport-utility vehicle sales
declined 12 percent to 126,300 units, while minivans -- used to
ferry goods and people -- slid 24 percent to 200,300 units.
Commercial vehicles, a category that includes buses and trucks,
tumbled 37 percent to 229,200 units.  “The January numbers aren’t pretty, but they’re still
normal” because of the fewer working days, Dong Yang, deputy
head of CAAM, said at a briefing in Beijing yesterday. “We
haven’t yet spotted anything special or abnormal.”  GM Drops  Some analysts agreed with Yang in saying that concerns over
the January figures may be premature.  “Demand is still there and consumers in the smaller, less
developed cities will still have a growing need for cars,” said
Chen Liang, an analyst with Huatai Securities Co. in Nanjing.
“These numbers don’t change my outlook for the year.”  GM, the world’s largest automaker, this week reported its
first drop in China sales in six months, with deliveries
declining 8 percent to 246,654 units. Chevrolet-brand sales fell
20 percent to 54,399 units, while deliveries of Wuling vehicles
-- commonly used for transporting both people and merchandise --
dropped 14 percent to 106,573.  Ford’s  China sales fell 42 percent last month to 30,976
vehicles, the company said.  Luxury carmakers  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and  Volkswagen
AG ’s Audi posted higher sales, bucking the industrywide decline.  Luxury-Car Sales  BMW sales in China rose about 30 percent to 25,000
vehicles, said  Mathias Schmidt , a spokesman for the Munich-based
company, citing preliminary figures. Audi deliveries gained 23
percent to 27,206 vehicles, the company said in a statement.  “Prior to the Chinese New Year, Chinese consumers who are
looking to enhance their prestige and status symbol have chosen
high-end luxury brands,” Namrita Chow, Shanghai-based analyst
at IHS Automotive said.  China’s Passenger Car Association, which competes with CAAM
in providing automotive statistics, said this week it expects
sales to rise 30 percent in February after falling 16.5 percent
last month because of the holiday distortion.  “Car demand is stable,” said Great Wall’s Ran. “There’s
no indication of any changes on that front.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  