-- China’s Li Urges Tough Food-Safety Rules as Guangzhou Tests Eggs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-09T02:16:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/china-s-li-urges-tough-food-safety-measures-as-guangzhou-city-tests-eggs.html
Chinese Vice Premier  Li Keqiang 
called for harsh punishments against  food-safety  violations as
officials removed eggs that a shopper claimed were fake in
southern China’s  Guangzhou  city.  Li said China faces a grave situation in ensuring food
supplies are kept safe and authorities should take a proactive
approach to deter violations, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported late yesterday.  China will continue measures against criminal offenses in
food scandals and seek to establish a long-term mechanism to
check food safety in 2012, Li said at a meeting of the State
Council’s food safety commission, which he leads, Xinhua said.  The measures would add to China’s crackdown on food safety
since six babies died and 300,000 others were sickened by
formula milk tainted with melamine in 2008, in the nation’s
worst food-related incident. Last year, authorities found an
unapproved additive in pork and excessive levels of a toxin in
some  milk products .  About 3,000 eggs were removed from a supermarket in
Guangzhou, the capital of  Guangdong province , after a shopper
claimed that the ones he bought were fake and caused his son an
upset stomach, China Daily said today.  Officials from the local industry and commerce bureau have
sealed up the eggs and sent the samples for examination, the
English-language newspaper said. The results are expected to be
released before the weekend, according to the  report .  Two calls to the industry and commerce bureau in Guangzhou
weren’t answered.  Eggs may be faked using chemicals such as sodium alginate,
China Daily said, citing Zhao Qiangzhong, an associate professor
from the school of light industry and foods at South  China 
University of Technology. While sodium alginate is edible, the
chemical doesn’t contain the nutrition of real eggs, Zhao was
cited as saying.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  