-- Chen Says China Exports Probably Fell in January, Hurting Small Businesses
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-09T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/china-january-exports-probably-fell-minister.html
Chinese Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said exports probably fell in January after foreign trade
slowed in the second half of last year, as he pledged to
maintain “stability” in the yuan’s exchange rate.  Overseas  sales last month “cannot make us optimistic” and
are “expected to have negative year-on-year growth due to
Chinese New Year and other factors,” Chen said yesterday in a
written response to Bloomberg News. “Chinese trading companies,
particularly small and micro businesses, have come under growing
pressure.” Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  fell as much as 0.4
percent following the comments.  Slowing trade adds pressure for monetary loosening to
support economic growth even with officials yet to claim victory
over inflation. Consumer-price gains picked up for the first
time in six months in January, pushed up by holiday spending, a
government report showed yesterday. Export data are due today,
with the median  estimate  of analysts showing a 1.4 percent
decline from a year earlier.  “We will keep the overall stability of our export and
import policies,” including tax rebates, and maintain the
stability of the yuan’s exchange rate and “relevant policies of
processing trade,” Chen said in an English translation from the
Ministry of Commerce. Any policy “fine-tuning” will be
supportive, not discouraging, he said.  ‘Underlying Weakness’  Fourteen of 31 economists in the Bloomberg survey had
estimated an increase in exports last month from a year earlier,
with 16 predicting a decline and one forecasting no growth.
Forecasts ranged from a drop of 10 percent to a rise of 8.4
percent. A fall would be the first in more than two years.  Imports  may have fallen 3.6 percent from a year earlier,
according to the median estimate. Economists estimate a trade
surplus of $10.4 billion last month, down from $16.5 billion in
December.  Numbers are distorted by a Chinese New Year holiday.  The slowdown in exports reflects holiday effects and
weakness in external demand, said Ding Shuang, an economist at
Citigroup Inc. in  Hong Kong .  Monetary policy easing “may be postponed, but only
temporarily,” Ding said. Loosening, including a cut in required
reserves for banks, may resume in late February or March as
inflation slows, he said.  ‘Integral’ to Economy  China, the world’s largest exporter, will also boost credit
support and reduce tax burdens for smaller businesses, Chen
said. Foreign trade is integral to the economy and “essential”
for people’s lives and jobs, he said.  The commerce minister commented before the visit to the
U.S. next week of Vice President  Xi Jinping , who is seen by
analysts including Chinese University of Hong Kong Adjunct
Professor Willy Wo-Lap Lam as China’s likely next president.  “As the financial crisis is spreading and worsening, all
countries are faced with the task of promoting economic growth
and creating more jobs,” Chen said. Stronger cooperation
between the U.S. and  China  is in the fundamental interest of
each nation, he said.  China won’t force foreign companies to transfer technology
to ventures with their local partners in order to gain access to
its markets, Chen said.  Encourages Investment  “The Chinese government is committed to the policy of
reform and opening up and welcomes and encourages, as always,
 foreign investment ,” he said. “Technology transfer and
technology cooperation shall be decided by businesses
independently and will not be used by the Chinese government as
a pre-condition for  market access .”  The U.S. and other trading partners have increased
criticism of the nation’s investment policies. President  Barack
Obama  said in his State of the Union address last month that he
will create a  trade  enforcement unit to investigate unfair trade
practices in countries including China.  Restrictions and “interventionist policies” on issues
such as intellectual property rights are a concern for American
companies in China, Claire Reade, the U.S. trade official in
charge of China affairs, told Congress in December.  Canada’s Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , visiting Beijing
this week, said he spoke to Premier  Wen Jiabao  about cases of
Canadian investments being blocked.  Chen said that China reviewed all its laws governing
foreign trade and economic issues shortly after joining the
 World Trade Organization  in 2001 and “revised those not
conforming to WTO rules and its accession commitments.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net ;
 John Liu  in Beijing at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  