-- China’s Stocks Rise to 2-Month High as Consumer, Property Stocks Advance
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-09T08:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/china-s-stocks-decline-as-surprise-jump-in-inflation-damps-easing-outlook.html
China’s stocks  advanced, driving the
benchmark index to a two-month high, as a cash crunch eased and
investors bought shares of companies whose earnings benefit from
rising prices.  Liquor maker  Kweichow Moutai Co. (600519)  led an advance for
consumer-staples producers after January inflation unexpectedly
rebounded to 4.5 percent during the Chinese new year holiday on
accelerating food prices. Ledman Optoelectronic Co. jumped 3.4
percent after benchmark money-market rates fell, signaling
improving liquidity. China Vanke Co. paced a two-day rally for
property developers. Jiangxi Copper Co. slid 2 percent as Greek
leaders fell short of a full agreement on a rescue plan.  “The Spring Festival effect boosted January inflation and
it’s a one-off rebound,” said Dai Ming, a  fund manager  at
Shanghai Kingsun Investment Management & Consulting Co. “Prices
will come down in the following months. But the central bank
will be reluctant to relax monetary policies since the inflation
rate is still perceived as high.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 2.06 points, or 0.1
percent, to 2,349.59 at the close, the highest since Dec. 2.
About two stocks advanced for every one that declined. The  CSI
300 Index (SHSZ300)  gained less than 0.1 percent to 2,529.23. The
 Bloomberg China-US 55 Index , the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, added 1.6 percent yesterday in
 New York , led by solar companies.  The Shanghai index has rebounded 6.8 percent this year on
speculation the central bank will further cut lenders’ reserve-
requirement ratios to spur growth. It announced a cut in reserve
ratios on Nov. 30, the first reduction since 2008, after
boosting them and  interest rates  last year to cool inflation
that accelerated to its fastest pace in three years in July.  Holiday Distortions  Reserve-ratio cuts may be postponed after inflation jumped
last month, Market News International reported, citing
unidentified government officials and economists. Inflation
pressure remains strong because Middle East tensions may boost
 oil prices , said a source familiar with discussions within the
People’s Bank of China.  The January inflation rate compared with the median 4
percent estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 33 economists and
4.1 percent in December. Producer-price inflation eased to 0.7
percent from a year earlier after a 1.7 percent gain in
December, the statistics bureau said today. The Chinese holiday
was from Jan. 22 to Jan. 28.  Export Outlook  A measure of consumer staples stocks in the CSI 300
advanced 0.4 percent. Kweichow Moutai, China’s biggest producer
of baijiu liquor by market value, rose 1.3 percent to 190.75
yuan.  Zhejiang Beingmate Scientific-Industrial-Trade Share Co. (002570) ,
a producer of milk powder for babies, climbed 2.4 percent to
24.11 yuan.  “Most investors and traders know January inflation
readings were significantly distorted by the Lunar New Year
holiday,” Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based economist at Bank of
America Corp., wrote in a report today. Inflation may slow to
below 4 percent this month,  Wang Tao , an economist at UBS AG,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today.  China’s exports probably fell 1.4 percent from a year
earlier in January, according to the median estimate of 31
economist surveyed by Bloomberg News. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
expected a drop of 3 percent. The figure is due tomorrow.  Exports probably declined in January after a slowdown in
foreign trade in the second half of last year, Commerce Minister
 Chen Deming  said. Overseas shipments “cannot make us
optimistic” and are “expected to have negative growth due to
Chinese New Year and other factors,” Chen said today in a
written response to questions from Bloomberg News.  Smallcaps Advance  The ChiNext index of start-up companies advanced 0.8
percent to a one-month high in Shenzhen. Ledman Optoelectronic,
a producer of light-emitting diode products, gained 3.4 percent
to 16.36 yuan.  Qingdao Eastsoft Communication Technology Co. (300183) 
climbed 2.7 percent to 56.09 yuan.  The seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, fell 4.7 basis points to
3.67 percent at 3:08 p.m. in  Shanghai  for its first decline in
four days, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. A trader said the central
bank will skip bill sales today.  A gauge of  property stocks  in the Shanghai Composite
rallied for a second day, gaining 1 percent, after the
government pledged to support first-time homebuyers and said it
will increase support for building of affordable housing.  Property Stocks  Vanke, the biggest developer, added 1.5 percent to 7.70
yuan. Poly Real Estate Group Co., the second largest, rose 1.3
percent to 10.56 yuan. Anhui Conch Cement Co., the biggest
cement producer, advanced 1.5 percent to 17.40 yuan. The
company’s Hong Kong-traded stock was also raised to “hold” at
Deutsche Bank AG.  “Policy makers are now beginning the process of
selectively easing up property tightening measures,”  Jason Todd , global head of equity strategy at Religare Capital Markets
Ltd., said in a report. “This primarily relates to mortgage
lending and first time home buyer support. For now, we do not
expect policy change at a national level.”  Government investment in low-income housing will rise by 20
billion yuan this year, 21st Century Business Herald reported,
citing unidentified local officials. The central government
budgeted 400 billion yuan in investment this year, it said.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told reporters
in  Athens  there were still “issues outstanding that must be
resolved” before European finance ministers meet in Brussels
today. He spoke after a meeting with Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  and the so-called troika of lenders that ended just
before 6 a.m. local time.  Greek Pension Cut  The meeting with lenders, representing the European
Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the  International
Monetary Fund , took place after leaders of the three parties
supporting the government met Papademos and failed to resolve a
dispute over pension cuts.  Jiangxi Copper,  China ’s biggest producer of the metal, lost
2 percent to 26.74 yuan. Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., the
listed unit of nation’s biggest maker of the lightweight metal,
fell 0.7 percent to 7.19 yuan.  “The twist on the European debt crisis will have a
negative impact on investors’ appetite for risk assets,” said
Wang Weijun, a strategist at Zheshang Securities Co. in
Shanghai.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  