-- China Says Chongqing’s Wang Spent a Day in U.S. Consulate
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-09T17:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/china-says-chongqing-s-wang-spent-a-day-in-u-s-consulate-1-.html
China  said Wang Lijun, deputy mayor
of Chongqing and protege of one of the nation’s most powerful
leaders, spent one day in the U.S. consulate in Chengdu earlier
this week, fueling speculation about a political shakeup.  China’s official Xinhua News Agency, citing the Foreign
Ministry spokesman’s office, said late yesterday that Wang
entered the consulate on Feb. 6 and left after a day, and that
the incident is being investigated. It didn’t elaborate. U.S.
State Department Spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said Feb. 8 that
Wang left the consulate on his own volition, responding to
speculation that he asked for refuge in the diplomatic post.  Wang, 52, headed Chongqing’s police force from 2009 until
last week, overseeing a crackdown on gangs that raised the
profile of his patron Bo Xilai, Chongqing’s Communist Party
secretary. Wang’s loss of his police portfolio and the Feb. 8
announcement that he was undergoing treatment for stress,
indicate that China’s leaders have spurned Bo and his
development model, which focused on increased state-led social
spending, political analyst  Li Cheng  said in an e-mail.  “The Chongqing model is over,” Li, a senior fellow at the
Washington-based  Brookings Institution , said in reference to
Bo’s strategy, which also included a resurgence of songs and
sayings lionizing socialism and Chairman  Mao Zedong . “It means
a landscape change in Chinese elite politics.”  Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Cui Tiankai called Wang’s
visit a “very isolated case” that was “resolved relatively
smoothly.” U.S. rules prohibit diplomatic posts from offering
asylum. Asylum seekers must apply inside the U.S. or at border
posts.  Standing Committee  Bo, who sits on China’s 25-member Politburo, had been seen
as a potential candidate for membership in the elite Politburo
Standing Committee, which now has nine members, according to Li
and other analysts. The Communist Party meets later this year to
choose the next generation of top leaders.  “It is a real blow for Bo,” Li said.  On Feb. 2, the Chongqing government said Wang had been
relieved of his police duties and  put in charge of  areas
including sanitation, athletics and education. On Feb 8, after
Wang met with U.S. officials, the Chongqing government said in a
statement that he was suffering from “immense mental stress and
serious physical discomfort,” and had been put on “vacation-
style treatment.”  Posts about Wang and discussions of Bo’s political future
were widely available yesterday on  Sina Corp (SINA)  (SINA).’s Weibo
 microblogging service .  Reducing Crime  The official Xinhua News Agency published a story yesterday
from a Chongqing paper extolling the city’s progress in reducing
crime and corruption since 2009, the year Wang became head of
the local police, without mentioning him or Bo.  Nuland said the U.S. does not comment in issues of refugee
status or asylum and said the meeting with Wang had been
previously scheduled.  Richard Buangan, a spokesman for the American Embassy in
Beijing, said in an e-mail yesterday that the U.S. had no
further contact with Wang after he left the consulate and has no
information on his whereabouts. Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen
Harper  is scheduled to meet Bo in Chongqing tomorrow.  Buangan would not comment on what Wang discussed at the
meeting or respond to reports of increased Chinese police
presence outside the consulate during Wang’s stay. He said there
was never any threat to the Chengdu consulate, the closest U.S.
diplomatic post to Chongqing.  Wang’s meeting won’t have any effect on Vice President  Xi Jinping ’s visit to the U.S. next week, Cui said at a briefing in
Beijing yesterday.  Before taking his position in Chongqing, a South Carolina-
sized municipality with a population of about 30 million, Wang
served as an official in northeastern China’s Liaoning province.
Bo, the son of one of the founders of the People’s Republic of
China, was governor there in 2001-2004, according to his
official biography.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  