-- Chinese Developers Rise on Central Bank Pledge for Loans: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-02-09T05:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/chinese-developers-rise-on-central-bank-pledge-for-loans-shanghai-mover.html
Chinese developers, including KWG
Property Holding Ltd. and Shimao Property Holdings Ltd., rose
for a second day after the nation’s central bank this week
pledged to meet demand from first-home buyers seeking loans.  KWG climbed as much as 15 percent to HK$3.96 and was 9.1
percent higher at the midday break in  Hong Kong , taking its two-
day gain to 19 percent. Shimao advanced 9 percent to HK$9.56,
rising 16 percent in two days. Eight of the 10 best performers
on the MSCI  China  Index were developers.  Officials will increase support for construction of
affordable housing and ensure that “loan demand from first-home
families” is met, the People’s Bank of China said on its
website Feb. 7. The central bank’s comment echoed a statement
that Housing Minister  Jiang Weixin  made in December, when he
said China would prioritize loans for first-home buyers and
support reasonable property purchase demand.  The  index of developers  listed in  Shanghai  gained as much
as 2 percent and was trading 1.4 percent higher at the 11:30 a.m.
lunch break. China Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest publicly
traded developer, rose 1.6 percent in Shenzhen trading.  Greentown China Holdings Ltd. (3900)  extended yesterday’s gain in
Hong Kong after saying it raised 3.73 billion yuan ($592 million)
through project sales since December. Greentown rose as much as
11 percent to HK$4.45, heading for a 13 week-high.  Greentown plans to sell more projects this year and
doesn’t have any plans to sell bonds, Chief Financial Officer
Simon Fung said in a telephone interview today.  In Hong Kong, China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd., rose
3.5 percent, while China Resources Land Ltd. jumped 6.5 percent.  The Shanghai property index fell 18 percent last year as
the Chinese government limited mortgages and restricted home
purchases to rein  home prices  on concern an asset bubble in the
real estate market could derail economic growth. The index has
gained 6 percent so far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  