-- China Military Growth Spurs Asia Demand for Boeing, Lockheed
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-02-09T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/china-military-growth-spurs-asia-demand-for-boeing-lockheed.html
China ’s surging defense budget, the
world’s second-biggest, is helping spur military spending across
Asia, offering U.S. and European suppliers a chance to offset
slowing demand at home.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Boeing Co. (BA)  fighters will be on
display at next week’s  Singapore Airshow  as the two biggest U.S.
defense contractors prepare to compete with  Eurofighter  and  Saab
AB (SAABB)  for a $7 billion South Korean order. The contest follows
similar competitions in Japan and India.  Asia-Pacific spending on fighters, missiles and other
equipment is set to grow an average 4.2 percent annually to $114
billion in 2016, according to  Frost & Sullivan , because of
economic growth and tensions in areas including the South China
Sea, the Korean peninsula and the Taiwan Strait. China’s defense
budget, alone, may rise 14 percent each year through 2015,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “Increased government revenues means that more money is
often available for defense spending,” said Tim Huxley,
executive director at the International Institute for Strategic
Studies  Asia  in  Singapore . “Many parts of Asia are also
insecure or governments have reasons to feel insecure.”  North Korean shelling and an attack on a warship killed 50
South Koreans in 2010. The Communist nation has an army of 1.2
million soldiers, ballistic missiles and enough plutonium for a
half-dozen nuclear devices, according to U.S. military
estimates.  China is working on its first aircraft carrier and the new
J-20 stealth fighter. The country planned to increase military
spending 13 percent to 601.1 billion yuan ($95 billion) last
year, Li Zhaoxing, spokesman for China’s National People’s
Congress, said in March. The nation is boosting the budget as it
replaces aging fighters and places a greater emphasis on
national security amid rising territorial tensions, Goldman
Sachs analysts Ronald Keung and Tom Kim said in a Jan. 17 note.  Taiwan Fighters  Taiwan, which China considers to be a renegade province, is
planning to upgrade 145 Lockheed Martin F-16s in a project that
will cost about NT$110 billion ($3.7 billion), according to the
 Ministry of National Defense . The work may include installing
new radars and navigation systems, according to a U.S. Defense
Security Cooperation Agency  statement  last year.  South Korea  is planning to purchase about 60 fighters,
according to the  Defense Acquisition Program Administration . The
contenders will include Lockheed’s F-35, Chicago-based Boeing’s
F-15, the Eurofighter Typhoon and Saab’s Gripen. The nation is
also buying attack helicopters for its army and  navy , as well as
considering a purchase of unmanned aerial vehicles, according to
the agency.  Japan Fighters  Lockheed, based in Bethesda,  Maryland , won an order from
 Japan  for 42 F-35 fighters in December. The jets may cost 1.6
trillion yen ($21 billion) to buy, operate and maintain over 20
years, according to the nation’s defense ministry. Singapore has
also signed up as a development partner for the fighter jet. The
U.S. has ordered about 2,440 in a $382 billion project that
forms its biggest weapons program.  India last week named Paris-based Dassault Aviation SA as
preferred bidder for a contract to supply 126 fighters. The
planemaker’s  Rafale  was shortlisted with the Eurofighter Typhoon
after the earlier rejection of offers from Lockheed, Boeing,
Saab and Moscow-based United Aircraft Corp.  Eurofighter is now targeting the South Korean tender, along
with opportunities in  Malaysia  and the Gulf, said Chief
Executive Officer Enzo Casolini. The planemaker is a venture
between  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , Finmeccanica SpA and Airbus parent
 European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co.   Asia is “an important market,” Casolini said. “Exporting
the Typhoon is also very important for the European industry and
for the European economy.”  Eurofighter Slowdown  Eurofighter has slowed production as European governments
cut military budgets amid austerity measures. Western European
defense spending fell about 5 percent last year and may decline
further this year, according to  Fitch Ratings .  Asia-Pacific defense spending rose 14 percent last year,
making it the fastest growing region, according to Frost &
Sullivan. Japan is the biggest spender on defense in Asia behind
China, with a $54.5 billion outlay in 2010, according to
Stockholm International Peace Research Institute  data . Third-
ranked  India  spent $41.3 billion that year. The U.S. led global
spending with a $698 billion budget.  China Jets  China is also seeking to take advantage of growing defense
budgets by selling domestically developed equipment overseas. At
the Singapore show, the export arm of  Aviation Industry Corp. of
China , the nation’s biggest aerospace company, will promote the
 JF-17 Thunder  fighter, nicknamed Fierce Dragon, which was
developed with  Pakistan . It will also be highlighting the L-15
Advanced Trainer Jet, and the Yilong, or Pterodactyl, drone.  “These airshows give China defense companies a global
stage, which reflects their growing power,” said Ken Zhang, a
Beijing-based defense-company analyst with Founder Securities
Co. Companies like AVIC also need to boost exports to help pay
for research costs as they probably don’t get “fat margins”
from sales to the Chinese military, he said.  Lockheed also sees Asia-Pacific demand for missile-defense
technologies, replicating a trend seen in the last decade in the
 Middle East .  “We’re watching the same or similar types of overall
security risks,” Chief Executive Officer Robert Stevens said in
a Jan. 26 conference call with analysts. “The proliferation of
technologies, the desire to get missiles of greater performance,
longer range, more precision, and the desire for governments to
have some protection against that ballistic-missile threat.”  Surveillance, Drones  L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL) , based in  New York , has
had interest from the region in its  SPYDR  manned, airborne
intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance system, as well as
unmanned surveillance drones, Chief Executive Officer Michael Strianese said in a Jan. 31 conference call.  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , the world’s largest maker of missiles,
expects 30 percent of bookings and 26 percent of sales in 2012
to come from outside the U.S., Chief Executive Officer Bill Swanson told analysts last month.  “Asia and the Middle East are important and are still
growing,” Swanson said.  In the U.S., the biggest military market, Defense Secretary
Leon Panetta presented an outline on Jan. 26 for $613 billion in
spending for fiscal 2013. The proposal is part of an effort to
cut $487 billion, or 8.5 percent, from $5.62 trillion in defense
spending that had been planned for 2012 to 2021. Automatic
spending cuts could force an additional $500 billion in
reductions over a decade.  “The strong growth in emerging-market demand for defense
equipment is a welcome respite to western military
manufacturers,” Fitch said on Feb. 1. “In the medium term, the
reliance on  emerging markets  for the defense sector will
continue to grow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  