-- China Won’t Force Technology Transfers, Commerce Minister Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-09T07:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/china-won-t-force-technology-transfers-commerce-minister-says.html
China  won’t force foreign companies
to transfer technology to ventures with their local partners in
order to gain access to markets in the world’s second-largest
economy, Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said.  “The Chinese government is committed to the policy of
reform and opening up and welcomes and encourages, as always,
foreign investment,” Chen said in a written response to
questions from Bloomberg News. “Technology transfer and
technology cooperation shall be decided by businesses
independently and will not be used by the Chinese government as
a pre-condition for  market access .”  The U.S. and other Chinese trading partners have increased
criticism of the nation’s investment policies. President  Barack
Obama  said in his State of the Union address last month that he
will create a  trade  enforcement unit to investigate unfair trade
practices in countries including China.  Restrictions and “interventionist policies” on issues
such as intellectual property rights remain a concern for
American companies operating in China, Claire Reade, the U.S.
trade official in charge of China affairs, said in December
testimony to Congress.  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , visiting Beijing
this week, said he spoke to Premier Wen Jiabao yesterday about
specific cases where Canadian investments weren’t being approved.  Foreign-Trade Laws  In an English translation of his comments provided by the
Ministry of Commerce, Chen said that China reviewed all its laws
governing foreign trade and economic issues shortly after
joining the World Trade Organization in 2001 and “revised those
not conforming to WTO rules and its accession commitments.”  The commerce minister’s comments were made ahead of Vice
President Xi Jinping’s visit the U.S. next week. Xi is seen by
analysts including Chinese University of Hong Kong Adjunct
Professor Willy Wo-Lap Lam as the likely successor to President
 Hu Jintao .  “As the financial crisis is spreading and worsening, all
countries are faced with the task of promoting economic growth
and creating more jobs,” Chen said. Stronger cooperation
between the U.S. and China is in the fundamental interest of
both nations, he said.  -- John Liu . Editors: Nerys Avery, Scott Lanman  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
John Liu in Beijing at   jliu42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at   ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  