-- China’s Unexpected Holiday Inflation Pickup May Limit Easing Room: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-09T10:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/china-inflation-unexpectedly-accelerates-to-4-5-on-holiday-spending-food.html
China’s inflation unexpectedly
accelerated in January on the boost to spending from a weeklong
holiday, limiting room for monetary easing as Europe’s debt
crisis damps exports and the  property market  cools.  Consumer prices  rose 4.5 percent from a year earlier, the
National Bureau of Statistics said on its website today. That
was more than all 33 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists and a median of 4 percent.  Inflation quickening for the first time in six months adds
pressure on officials to refrain from any immediate additional
cut in banks’ reserve requirements. The government may wait to
see data free from holiday distortions as UBS AG predicts price
gains may cool to below 4 percent this month and Bank of America
Corp. estimates about 3.3 percent.  “This cuts into the room for monetary policy easing for
now,” said Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based economist with Societe
Generale AG. “However, inflation should resume its decline in
February and beyond.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.1 percent as of 6:38 p.m.
in  Tokyo . The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose less than
0.1 percent.  Separately, Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said China’s
exports probably declined in January after a slowdown in foreign
trade in the second half of last year. The data are due tomorrow,
with analysts forecasting a 1.4 percent decline in overseas
shipments from a year earlier.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index fell
as much as 0.4 percent following the comments, which came after
the Chinese stock markets closed.  Food Prices  The New Year holiday, which ran from Jan. 22 to Jan. 28,
boosts prices and retail sales while curbing trade and
industrial production. Food prices gained 10.5 percent from a
year earlier, up from 9.1 percent in December, today’s report
showed.  January’s prices rose 1.5 percent from December, the
biggest month-to-month advance in four years. The timing of this
year’s holiday boosted January inflation because price gains
accelerated ahead of the holiday, compared with last year’s
early-February timing, said Zhang Zhiwei, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.  China ’s rate of inflation will “steadily decline” as the
effects of the New Year holiday and other “temporary factors”
fade, the National Development and Reform Commission, the
country’s top economic-planning agency, said in a statement on
its website today. Meat and vegetable prices “surged” last
month because of the holiday and bad weather, the commission
said.  ‘Strong’ Demand  Still, the pickup may be more than just seasonal, said Cui Li, a Hong Kong-based economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc. A seasonally adjusted index from RBS shows January had the
fastest gains since November 2010, indicating that “strong
consumer demand” is testing “tight supply conditions,” Cui, a
former research official at the Hong Kong Monetary Authority,
said in a note today.  Starbucks Inc. and McDonald’s Corp. have raised prices on
wage and commodity costs, and officials plan to boost minimum
pay rates nationwide by more than 13 percent annually from 2011
to 2015, according to a government plan released this week.  The government raised retail fuel charges yesterday, a move
designed to spur production by refiners including  China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp . and  PetroChina Co. (857) , which were
running losses from refining last year.  Easing Delay  “Monetary easing may hold off for one month as the
government awaits signs of normalization of the inflation
dynamics distorted by the holiday,” said Ding Shuang, a Hong
Kong-based economist with Citigroup Inc. He estimates inflation
may cool to 4 percent or lower this month.  Producer-price (CHEFTYOY)  inflation eased to 0.7 percent in January
from a year earlier after a 1.7 percent increase in December, a
separate report from the statistics bureau showed today. That’s
the smallest increase since gains resumed in December 2009 after
the global financial crisis. Those data, too, may be distorted
by the timing of the holiday.  “It’s comforting that PPI is still decelerating which
means upstream pressure is coming down,”  Wang Tao , a Hong Kong-
based economist with UBS, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. She said January’s CPI will probably be the highest
in 2012.  The central bank  cut  lenders’ reserve requirements in
December for the first time in three years to boost credit amid
moderating overseas sales. The People’s Bank of China this week
pledged to ensure loans for first-home buyers as a crackdown on
speculation threatens to trigger a slump in the property market.  Machinery Orders  Elsewhere in  Asia ,  Japan ’s machinery orders fell at the
fastest pace in three months in December, the Cabinet Office
said in Tokyo today. Spending may rebound as earthquake
reconstruction work kicks in, and today’s report showed
companies forecasting a 2.3 percent increase in orders this
quarter.  Indonesia ’s central bank unexpectedly cut its benchmark
 interest rate  for the first time in three years, to 5.75 percent
from 6 percent. Malaysia’s industrial production growth
accelerated in December to a 3 percent gain as manufacturing and
electricity output increased, the statistics department said
today.  In  New Zealand , a government report showed the labor market
unexpectedly weakened last quarter. Employment rose by 0.1
percent, or 3,000 jobs, from the third quarter, when it gained
0.2 percent,  Statistics New Zealand  said in Wellington.  Europe Crisis  The  Bank of England  may pump another 50 billion pounds ($79
billion) into the U.K. economy as he ramps up protection for a
nascent recovery from the threat posed by  Europe ’s debt crisis.
The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee will raise the target
for bond purchases to 325 billion pounds, more than a quarter of
current outstanding gilts, according to 34 of 50 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  The  European Central Bank  may announce no change in its
record-low benchmark interest rate of 1 percent, according to a
survey of economists. ECB President  Mario Draghi  holds a press
conference at 2:30 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  In the U.S., a Labor Department report may show little
change in the number of first-time claims for  unemployment
benefits . The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey is for
370,000 filings in the week ended Jan. 28, compared with 367,000
the previous week.  China should consider fiscal stimulus if Europe’s crisis
sparks a recession there that affects the U.S., Asian
Development Bank Managing Director-General Rajat Nag said in
Tokyo yesterday.  “Countries, particularly China, have to consider the
possibility of coming in with necessary fiscal stimulus if the
euro zone crisis becomes more serious and if the effects of that
spill over into the U.S.,” he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  