-- Commodities Risk Crash on China Recession Threat, Smead Says
-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-02-10T07:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/chinese-recession-may-pummel-commodities-smead-capital-ceo-says.html
China  is at risk of falling into a
recession by 2015 that would reduce commodity prices as much as
70 percent, according to the chief executive officer at Smead
Capital Management Inc.  Commodities from  copper  to crude oil may drop 50 percent to
70 percent from current prices in three years to five years,
Bill Smead, CEO of the Seattle-based mutual fund, said in an
interview in  Singapore . China, the world’s biggest consumer of
energy, metals and grains, has a 30 percent chance of slipping
into a recession as property prices fall, hurting local banks
that made loans to developers and home buyers, he said.  Smead, whose fund manages $170 million and has stakes in
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) ,  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and  Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. , doesn’t own natural-resource companies because commodity
prices are “massively overvalued,” he said. The fund reported
net capital appreciation of 5.2 percent last year, compared with
a 0.4 percent gain of the Russell 1000 Value Total Returns Index
and a 2.1 percent rise in the S&P 500 Total Returns Index.  “Commodities are currently 50 to 70 percent above their
cost of production,” Smead said. “History shows prices tend to
bottom near the production cost. That’s at about $50 to $55 a
barrel for crude oil.”  Companies and banks that financed China’s construction boom,
which started in 2008, show signs of accumulating more debt than
they can pay off, he said. China’s government debt, which may
have risen to 20 trillion yuan ($3.14 trillion) by the end of
2010, or about 50 percent of its gross domestic product, is
becoming a major constraint on its economic growth, research
firm Beijing Fost Economic Consulting Company Ltd. said in
December.  ‘Woefully Undercapitalized’  China’s exports fell 0.5 percent from a year earlier in
January, the customs bureau said today on its website. Imports
dropped 15.3 percent, declining more than the 3.6 percent
forecast by economists. Car passenger-vehicle sales in the
country, the world’s biggest auto market, dropped 24 percent
from a year earlier to 1.16 million units last month, the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers said in a statement
yesterday.  “Local banks are woefully undercapitalized,” Smead said.
“They financed all these developers when it was all build,
build, build, build, build. Now, all these buildings are coming
up and nobody wants them.”  Local governments in China, prohibited from directly taking
bank loans or selling bonds, have set up more than 6,000
financing companies to sidestep those rules and raise funds for
building stadiums, roads and bridges, the National Audit Office
said in a June report.  Cleaning Out  Governments at provincial, city and county levels amassed
10.7 trillion yuan of debt by the end of 2010, the auditor said.
 Home prices  fell for a fifth month in January, according to
SouFun Holdings Ltd., the nation’s biggest real-estate website
owner that began compiling the figures in July 2010.  “We’re not negative about the long-term prospects for the
Chinese economy,” Smead said. “But what needs to happen for
the success story in China to continue is that they have to
clean the system. And that’s what a recession will do.”  He recommends buying so-called custody banks like  Bank of
New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  and U.S. equities with low exposure to the
Chinese market.  “It’s quite controversial of us to be positive on
financial companies while  Ben Bernanke  has said interest rates
will remain low,” said Cole Smead, director of marketing at the
fund. “But when  interest rates  rise, money brokers will make
money on people getting out of bonds.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI  gauge  of 24 commodities fell 0.1
percent to 679.41 at 2:09 p.m. Singapore time. The index has
gained 5.4 percent this year compared with 2011’s annual
increase of 2.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  