-- Chrysler Says Eastwood Helped Shape Ad Message for Super Bowl
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-02-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/chrysler-says-eastwood-helped-shape-ad-message-for-super-bowl.html
Chrysler Group LLC, following a two-
minute  Super Bowl  ad that became the center of a political
debate, said the idea to use  Clint Eastwood  came two months ago
and that the actor helped shape the message.  “We had to write it together with him,” Olivier Francois,
Chrysler’s marketing chief, said in an interview at the  Chicago 
Auto Show yesterday.  “Clearly, he felt like endorsing the message because the
message is clearly not sales-oriented,” Francois said. “It is
even hardly corporation-oriented. It’s about values.”  The number of people who’ve watched the Chrysler Super Bowl
ad on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube is more than double the number of
viewers of the company’s Eminem ad at the comparable time
following the 2011 National Football League championship game,
Francois said.  The ad’s only references to Chrysler came from a few images
of cars and trucks, shots of sport-utility vehicles being built
at a  Detroit  factory and the company’s brand logos in the
closing shot. The automaker ran a similar ad last year, using
music and an appearance from hometown rapper Eminem that focused
more squarely on the city of Detroit itself and the Chrysler 200
sedan.  While Chrysler didn’t want to create a sequel to the Eminem
ad, it did want “to keep building on the ‘Imported from
Detroit’ platform but still be respectable to this message of
resilience, hard work, drive and humility,” Francois said.
“But bring it from Detroit to America.”  Authority, Credibility  Chrysler sought Eastwood, 81, because it wanted somebody
“who had the authority, the credibility” to be the voice of
the commercial, Francois said.  Francois and Saad Chehab, head of the Chrysler brand,
worked on the script proposal along with ad agency Wieden &
Kennedy and took input from Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne .  The ad featured Eastwood giving a halftime pep talk to
America.  “This country can’t be knocked out with one punch,”
Eastwood said in the spot. “We get right back up again and when
we do, the world is going to hear the roar of our engines.”  “Yeah, it’s halftime, America,” said Eastwood, who was
mayor of Carmel-by-the-Sea,  California , from 1986 to 1988. “And
our second half is about to begin.”  The spot became the subject of a political debate. Chrysler
was reorganized in a government-backed bankruptcy in 2009 and is
now majority owned by  Fiat SpA. (F)   Republicans, Democrats Differ  Karl Rove , a Republican political strategist, criticized
the ad on Fox News Channel this week, saying he was “offended”
by Chrysler’s commercial and it was an example of “Chicago-
style politics.” President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, lived in
Chicago before moving to the White House.  “Saving the America Auto Industry: Something Eminem and
Clint Eastwood can agree on,” Dan Pfeiffer, the White House
communications director, said in a post on Twitter. “Powerful
spot,”  David Axelrod , Obama’s chief political strategist, said
on Twitter.  Francois said he was surprised by the amount of controversy
the ad generated.  “It is not a political message,” he said. “We did that
to reflect the spirit of our organization.”  “We have no doubt that this ad had no political agenda of
any kind,” David Kelleher, president of Chrysler’s national
dealer council, wrote in a blog post. “This ad was simply a
recount of the achievement of Chrysler.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  