-- Lehman Sues Citigroup for $2.5 Billion ‘Wrongfully’ Taken
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-02-09T05:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/citigroup-sued-by-lehman-brothers-for-2-5-billion-wrongfully-withheld.html
Bankrupt  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ)  sued  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Citibank for $2.5 billion by over
claims the bank “wrongfully” withheld the money after it was
transferred by Lehman in the months before its 2008 bankruptcy.  Lehman also is seeking “hundreds of millions” owed by
Citibank, and wants to reduce or deny $2 billion of claims
Citibank filed against Lehman, according to a court filing
yesterday.  Lehman, which is pursuing a liquidation plan that would pay
creditors less than 18 cents on the dollar, has said that $2
billion of the cash it has gathered so far to pay creditors was
pledged to Citigroup. In addition to trying to free up cash, it
is seeking to cut bank claims on its assets to increase the
amount available for other creditors.  “This action is an unjustified attempt by the Lehman
estates to renege on their obligations to Citi, and claw back
assets to which they have no right,” said Danielle Romero- Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New York-based Citigroup. The bank,
which “went out of its way to try to help Lehman prior to its
bankruptcy filing,” will fight the lawsuit, she said.  According to Lehman, Citibank has said it’s entitled to $2
billion of the defunct firm’s cash to secure its claims on
Lehman, which would otherwise be unsecured.  The so-called setoff “is in violation of the  bankruptcy
code ,” Lehman said in the lawsuit.  Romero-Apsilos said the bank took the cash to protect
itself and its shareholders from loss. Lehman filed the biggest
U.S. bankruptcy in history with debt of $613 billion more than
three years ago.  Separately, Citigroup is fighting a $1.3 billion demand by
Lehman’s defunct brokerage and has settled its differences with
Lehman’s European affiliate.  The case is Lehman v. Citibank, 12-01044,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  