-- American Consumers’ Confidence Gains With Improvement in Job Data: Economy
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-02-09T17:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/claims-for-u-s-jobless-benefits-unexpectedly-fell-last-week-to-358-000.html
Fewer Americans than forecast filed
claims for jobless benefits last week and  consumer confidence 
rose to the highest level in a year, pointing to gains in
spending as job prospects brighten.  Applications for  jobless benefits  decreased 15,000 in the
week ended Feb. 4 to 358,000, Labor Department figures showed
today in Washington. Economists forecast 370,000 claims,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 41.7 in the
period to Feb. 5 from minus 44.8 the previous week.  The drop in firings comes a week after a report showed
joblessness dropped to a three-year low in January, adding to
evidence the labor market is recovering. More favorable views of
the economy and finances mean consumers will continue to pick up
the pace of spending.  “The labor market strength we saw in January was not a
fluke,” said Guy Berger, an economist at RBS Securities Inc. in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Consumers are responding to a labor
market that’s getting better.”  Stocks rose, a day after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
advanced to a seven-month high, as Greek political leaders
struck a deal on measures needed to secure international rescue
funds. The  S&P 500  climbed 0.1 percent to 1,351.09 at 12:28 p.m.
in  New York .  Estimates for first-time claims ranged from 355,000 to
385,000 in the Bloomberg survey of 48 economists. The four-week
 moving average , a less-volatile measure, declined to 366,250,
the lowest since April 26, 2008.  U.K. Manufacturing  Elsewhere today, U.K. manufacturing production jumped in
December by five times as much as economists forecast and the
trade deficit shrank to the smallest since 2003. Factory output
increased 1 percent from the previous month, while the  trade gap 
narrowed by more than half to 1.11 billion pounds ($1.7
billion).  The  European Central Bank  kept interest rates on hold
today, while President  Mario Draghi  signaled the economy may be
less dire.  “The economic outlook remains subject to high uncertainty
and downside risks,” Draghi said at a press conference in
Frankfurt today. Last month, he said the outlook was subject to
“substantial” downside risks. The ECB left its benchmark
 interest rate  at a record low of 1 percent.  China Inflation  China ’s inflation rate picked up in January for the first
time in six months, limiting room for monetary easing as
 Europe ’s debt crisis damps exports and the property market
cools. Prices rose 4.5 percent from a year earlier, the National
Bureau of Statistics said on its website.  Initial jobless claims in the U.S. reflect weekly firings
and tend to fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-
farm payrolls report -- accelerates.  Employers added 603,000 workers in the last three months,
while the  unemployment rate  fell by 0.6 percentage point to 8.3
percent. In January, payrolls jumped 243,000, the biggest gain
since April.  The improving jobs picture may be leading to broad-based
gain in sentiment as all three components of the Bloomberg
weekly consumer comfort index picked up from the prior period.
The measure of Americans’ views of the  state of the economy  rose
to minus 76.6 last week from minus 79.1. The gauge of personal
finances climbed to zero, the highest since July, from minus
4.5. An index of the buying climate increased to minus 48.4 from
minus 50.8.  View of Finances  Forty-one percent of survey respondents said the economy is
in “poor” shape, the fewest since March. Half of the
respondents rated their own finances as “positive,” the most
since September.  Sentiment among respondents ages 55 to 64 climbed to an
almost four-year high, today’s report showed, while confidence
among homeowners rose to the highest level since December 2010.  Higher stock prices and signs real estate is on the mend
may be shoring up sentiment among both groups. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  this week climbed to the highest level since
May 2008, while sales of previously owned homes rose in December
to an 11-month high.  Sysco Corp., the biggest North American distributor of food
to restaurants, is among companies that may benefit from more
upbeat attitudes.  “To a large extent, our performance in the second half of
the year will be heavily influenced by how much the recent
uptick in consumer confidence translates into increased  consumer
spending  on meals away from home,” Chief Executive Officer Bill
DeLaney said on a Feb. 6 conference call with analysts.  Obama on Economy  President  Barack Obama  said Feb. 3 in Arlington, Virginia,
after the employment data were released that “the economy is
growing stronger. The recovery is speeding up, and we’ve got to
do everything in our power to keep it going.”  Obama challenged Congress to extend a 2 percentage-point
payroll tax cut set to expire at the end of the month so that
lawmakers “do not slow down the recovery.” Failure to prolong
the cut could reduce economic growth by 0.4 percentage point in
2012 and contribute to increased unemployment and job loss,
according to calculations by Mark Zandi, chief economist at
Moody’s Analytics Inc.  The  Federal Reserve  is also concerned that unemployment is
too high. January’s jobless rate understates weakness in the
U.S. labor market, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said earlier
this week.  “It is very important to look not just at the unemployment
rate, which reflects only people who are actively seeking
work,” Bernanke said Feb. 7 in response to questions at a
hearing before the Senate Budget Committee. “There are also a
lot of people who are either out of the  labor force  because they
don’t think they can find work. We still have a long way to go
before the labor market can be said to be operating normally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  