-- Colombia Considers More Action to Curb Peso Gains, Finance Minister Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-02-09T21:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/colombia-considers-more-action-to-curb-peso-gains-finance-minister-says.html
Colombia  may take further action to
curb the peso’s appreciation as it fights its “own little
currency war” to protect export industries, Finance Minister
Juan Carlos Echeverry said.  The Andean nation, which started buying at least $20
million a day on Feb. 6, may deploy a “richer battery of
instruments” to limit gains in the currency, Echeverry said in
an interview in Bogota today, without giving details.  “We care deeply for the impact of the  exchange rate  on the
real economy,” Echeverry said. “We behave as if we were
exporters.”  Like other emerging market currencies, Colombia’s peso has
gained as policy makers in the U.S. and Europe loosen monetary
policy to revive their economies, said Echeverry, who once
worked as a teaching assistant to Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  at  New York University . Brazil’s central bank bought
dollars in the currency forwards market on Feb. 3 for the first
time since July in an effort to slow a rally in the real.  Echeverry said that Colombia is “not seduced” by the idea
of  capital controls .  “There is no one single silver bullet,” he said. “We
have been at least as successful, if not more, than Brazil in
avoiding appreciation without resorting to capital controls.”  Dollar Purchases  The peso touched an almost six-month high of 1,770 per
dollar today after a new round of central bank dollar purchases
failed to reverse its strengthening trend.  The currency would have gained further without the dollar
purchases, Echeverry said. “They are incessant, continual
purchases for three months that may be renewed, and that’s a
fact the market takes into account,” he said.  The peso has strengthened 7.7 percent against the dollar
over the past three months, the second-best performance among
the seven most-traded Latin American currencies tracked by
Bloomberg after the  Mexican peso .  The central bank ended its previous, year-long, daily
dollar purchase program on Sept. 30 after European debt turmoil
led investors to dump emerging-market assets.  Colombia is considering increasing the proportion of dollar
bonds as a percentage of its total debt over the “medium
term,” as dollar revenue from oil revenue increases, Echeverry
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 