-- Columbia’s Sachs Says Krugman Is ‘Crude Keynesian’ on Spending: Tom Keene
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-02-09T20:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/columbia-s-sachs-says-krugman-is-crude-keynesian-on-spending-tom-keene.html
Nobel-prize winning economist  Paul Krugman  isn’t paying enough attention to growing  U.S. government
debt  as he promotes deficit spending, Columbia University
professor Jeffrey Sachs said.  “Krugman has staked out a rather crude Keynesian position
and unrelentingly so,” Sachs said today, referring to John  Maynard Keynes , the British economist who advocated government
spending to spur economic growth during the Great Depression.
Krugman “knows one thing, which is stimulus, stimulus, stimulus
and expand deficit spending,” Sachs said in a television
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene .  Total federal debt held by the public has more than doubled
as a share of gross domestic product in the last decade. It
totaled 72 percent of GDP last year, compared with 35 percent in
2000, according to calculations by the Office of Management and
Budget.  Krugman didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail or
telephone request seeking comment.  On Feb. 6, Krugman, a professor at Princeton University and
a New York Times columnist,  wrote  in his “Economics and
Politics” blog that the  U.S. economy  was in a depression
because an excess supply of savings prevented full employment.
Government spending would help “reduce that incipient
surplus,” he wrote.  “Paul has a powerful bully pulpit in his New York Times
column, and he’s been on one theme for three years,” Sachs
said. Krugman has “under-emphasized the risks of growing debt,
he’s over-asserted what we really know about the effects of
these policies and he has underestimated the long-term need for
public-sector change and reform,” Sachs said.  Warring ‘Ideologues’  To be sure, Krugman is “battling ideologues on the other
side who have been equally extreme,” Sachs said. “This brawl
is really a brawl of extreme positions,” he said. “It’s not
very illuminating, but it is rather entertaining.”  Offering Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney 
advice, Sachs said that “simply cutting  government spending  in
order to be able to enable tax cuts is going to be seen as
terribly unfair.” Such a policy wouldn’t address the need for
more investment in education, research and development, and
infrastructure, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  