-- Congo Mining Code Raises Taxes, Curbs Exemptions, Minister Says
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-02-09T10:04:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/congo-mining-code-raises-taxes-curbs-exemptions-minister-says.html
Democratic Republic  of Congo’s
revamped mining code will increase export taxes, limit
exemptions and impose stricter regulations forcing companies to
process ore, Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu  said.  “A company can already be in production for eight or 10
years and it still” enjoys tax exemptions, Kabwelulu said in an
interview yesterday at the Investing in African Mining Indaba
conference in  Cape Town . “That needs to change.”  Congo supplies more than half the world’s cobalt, a metal
used in rechargeable batteries, and is  Africa ’s second-biggest
producer of copper after southern neighbor Zambia. Companies
including  Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.  and  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN)  operate mines in the country, most of which
are situated in the southern Katanga province.  The code, which Kabwelulu said will be negotiated in
consultation with companies, donors and civil society, will
replace existing rules that have been in effect for a decade. He
was unable to say when the new code would be in place.  The measures will set into law steps taken by the
government on an ad-hoc basis. President  Joseph Kabila ’s
government has previously banned the export of ore and
concentrate and imposed a moratorium on tax exemptions agreed on
an individual basis.  Under the new code, companies will have to pay more than
the current 2 percent to 5 percent in taxes when shipping their
products, allowing the central African nation to bolster revenue
and finance export services, Kabwelulu said.  The number of titles an individual mine operator can own
will be cut from the current 50, he said. Operators will also
need to start processing ore within a specific timeline, forcing
them to build purification plants and creating jobs in Congo.  Operators “shouldn’t come and set up to export ore or
concentrate,” Kabwelulu said. “We need someone who can set up
to achieve maximum output by exporting metals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  