-- Social Conservatives Rallying Around Rising Santorum in Republican Contest
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-02-09T17:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/conservatives-rally-around-rising-santorum-in-republican-contest.html
The Republican Party’s socially
conservative base, conflicted for months over which presidential
candidate to back, is increasingly coalescing behind  Rick Santorum  in a shift that some observers say may energize his bid
and slow Mitt Romney’s momentum toward the nomination.  Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator, collected no
delegates when he swept a trio of Republican contests Feb. 7,
yet he demonstrated his growing popularity among voters who make
opposition to abortion rights and gay marriage a priority.  These voters -- galvanized by opposition to President
 Barack Obama ’s decision last month to mandate that religious
employers include birth-control coverage in their health plans -
- are becoming more motivated to back Santorum in an effort to
draw the starkest possible contrast with the president.  “At the grassroots level, I would say that there is a
strong plurality -- if not a majority -- for Rick Santorum”
among conservatives, said  Richard Land , the president of the
Nashville, Tennessee-based Southern Baptist Convention’s Ethics
and Religious Liberty Commission. “His viability was his only
real weakness; well, he had a clean sweep” in Missouri,
Minnesota and  Colorado .  Courting Conservatives  Leaders are gathering today in Washington for the
Conservative Political Action Conference, where Santorum, Romney
and former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia , all
vying for their loyalties, are scheduled to speak tomorrow.
Sarah Palin, the former Alaska governor and 2008 vice
presidential nominee, is to close the event on Feb. 11.  Santorum’s wins in the Midwest and mountain West, weeks
after he was belatedly declared the winner of  Iowa ’s caucuses,
give him a chance to consolidate his standing with the most
socially and fiscally conservative Republicans, said Henry Olsen, vice president of the  American Enterprise Institute  in
 Washington . Santorum also can appeal to “somewhat
conservative” voters, the party’s “silent majority” whose
backing he needs to surpass Romney, Olsen said.  “What Santorum earned is an opportunity,” Olsen said.
“First, he’s got to unite the base, but then he’s got to reach
out to these people who tend to like candidates who are not
bombastic, not shrilly partisan, and who can come across as the
safe Republican.”  ‘Voices of Our Party’  Santorum, 53, has about three weeks to accomplish that,
with the next contests in Arizona and  Michigan  set for Feb. 28.
He started in the minutes immediately following word of his
Missouri and Minnesota victories, telling supporters at his Feb.
7 victory party in St. Charles, Missouri, that his wins were “a
victory for the voices of our party -- conservatives and Tea
Party people who are out there every single day in the
vineyards, building the conservative movement in this country,
building the base of the  Republican Party .”  “I don’t stand here to claim to be the conservative
alternative to Mitt Romney,” Santorum said of the former
Massachusetts governor, 64, who leads the delegate hunt. “I
stand here to be the conservative alternative to Barack Obama.”  Campaigning in  Oklahoma  today, Santorum said he would
repeal many of Obama’s regulations and get the government out of
the way of business and personal decisions such as
contraception. He said “the left” uses issues such as the
environment to scare Americans and “lord it over” them.  “The left is always looking for a way to control you,”
Santorum said in  Oklahoma City . “They’re always trying to make
you feel guilty so you’ll give them power.”  Hanging Back  Santorum also sprinkled frequent references to God in his
speech today. That language helps his message resonate with
voters, said Foster Friess, a  fund manager  from  Wyoming  who is
helping finance an outside group supporting Santorum.  “He stresses that our rights come from the Creator, not
the government,” Friess told Bloomberg Television today.  In a fundraising appeal yesterday, Santorum said if his
backers “take immediate action, we can unite together behind a
single conservative standard bearer and win the Republican
nomination.”  Last month, it was Gingrich who said Santorum should
consider dropping out. “The longer conservatives stay split,
the harder it’s going to be for us” to beat Romney, Gingrich
said on  Fox News  before the Jan. 31 Florida primary, which
Romney won.  Conservative leaders say their movement -- including
religiously driven voters as well as Tea Party devotees who are
determined to shrink government -- is still hanging back, slow
to embrace a Republican contender.  Seeing Movement  “With each of these victories here, you can see
conservatives moving more and more toward Santorum,” said
Richard Viguerie, a veteran Republican direct-mail strategist
who heads  ConservativeHQ.com  and is backing Santorum. “It
hasn’t happened yet. I think it’s fair to say that probably the
vast majority of conservatives are still on the sidelines.”  Still, Viguerie said he expects that to change over the
next two to four weeks.  “There’s a majority of Republicans who have dug in their
heels that they do not want  Mitt Romney , and a majority part of
the Republican leadership that does not want Gingrich. That
leaves Santorum as a consensus, compromise candidate,” he said.  While it remains to be seen whether Santorum can collect
enough campaign cash to sustain his momentum, he is benefiting
from a surge in support from conservatives outraged by the Obama
administration’s contraceptive-coverage decision.  ‘War on Faith’  The issue “not only boosts Santorum, it puts social
conservatives on the political equivalent of amphetamines
between now and Nov. 6, because they believe they have a
president who has declared war on faith,” said Land, who hasn’t
endorsed a candidate.  The Catholic Church and some other religions equate
contraception with abortion. Santorum has made his Catholic
faith and anti-abortion stance calling cards of his political
career.  Social conservatives are “kicking into gear, they’re
writing checks and opening their wallets” for Santorum, said
the Reverend Lou Sheldon of the Traditional Values Coalition,
which represents thousands of churches on moral and social
issues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  