-- Consumer Comfort Hits Highest Level in a Year
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-02-09T14:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/consumer-comfort-hits-highest-level-in-a-year.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S.
climbed last week to a one-year high, spurred by improving
employment opportunities and a rally in the stock market.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 41.7 in
the period to Feb. 5 from minus 44.8 the previous week.
Confidence among political independents, considered a key group
in presidential elections, increased to a four-year high.  Americans’  views of the economy  were the least pessimistic
in eight months after employers beefed up payrolls in January
and joblessness fell to the lowest level since February 2009.
Consumers may be looking beyond the recent rise in gasoline
prices as the increase in equity values boosts household wealth
and promotes spending.  “Encouraging labor-market gains over the past two months
are the likely catalyst for the sharp improvement,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New York.
“Declining natural gas and home heating oil prices are likely
offsetting rising gasoline prices, which has probably bolstered
consumer balance sheets along with consumer sentiment.”  Fewer Americans than forecast filed claims for unemployment
insurance payments last week, indicating the labor market
recovery is gaining traction, figures from the Labor Department
showed today. Applications for  jobless benefits  decreased by
15,000 in the week ended Feb. 4 to 358,000. The median forecast
of 48 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected 370,000.  There were 366,250 claims filed on average over the past
four weeks, the fewest since April 2008.  Stocks advanced as Greek political leaders struck a deal on
a package of austerity measures needed to secure international
rescue funds. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.1
percent to 1,350.84 at 9:40 a.m. in  New York .  Components Climb  All three components of the weekly consumer comfort index
improved from the prior week. The measure of Americans’ views of
the state of the economy rose to minus 76.6 last week from minus
79.1. The gauge of  personal finances  climbed to zero, the
highest since July, from minus 4.5. An index of the buying
climate increased to minus 48.4 from minus 50.8.  The Bloomberg comfort survey has a 3-point margin of error,
and the index has been stuck below minus 40 -- the level
associated with recessions or their aftermath -- since the end
of February 2011. The confidence gauge, which began December
1985, averaged minus 46.8 last year, compared with minus 45.7
for 2010 and minus 47.9 in 2009, the worst full-year reading on
record.  Forty-one percent of survey respondents said the economy is
in “poor” shape, the fewest since March. Half of the
respondents rated their own finances as “positive,” the most
since September.  ‘Breakout Range’  The comfort gauge “moved to within breakout range of its
recession zone,”  Gary Langer , president of Langer Research
Associates LLC in New York, which compiles the index for
Bloomberg, said in a statement. “Many groups reached recent
highs. Notable among them: political independents, the key swing
voters in national elections.”  Confidence among households not aligned with any political
party rose to minus 33.4, the highest level since January 2008,
and Republican sentiment climbed to an almost two-month high of
minus 45. Confidence was little changed among Democrats.  The increase in sentiment partly reflects progress on the
jobs front. Payrolls rose by 243,000 workers last month, the
biggest gain since April, and the  unemployment rate  fell to 8.3
percent, the Labor Department said on Feb. 3.  Sentiment among respondents ages 55 to 64 climbed to an
almost four-year high, today’s report showed, while confidence
among homeowners rose to the highest level since December 2010.  Stock Market  Higher stock prices and signs real estate is on the mend
may be shoring up sentiment among both groups. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average (INDU)  this week climbed to the highest level since
May 2008, while sales of previously owned homes rose in December
to an 11-month high.  Sysco Corp. (SYY) , the biggest North American distributor of food
to restaurants, is among companies that may benefit from more
upbeat attitudes.  “To a large extent, our performance in the second half of
the year will be heavily influenced by how much the recent
uptick in consumer confidence translates into increased  consumer
spending  on meals away from home,” Chief Executive Officer Bill DeLaney said on a Feb. 6 conference call with analysts.  Not all sentiment measures are climbing in tandem. While
the Thomson/Reuters University of Michigan Index rose to an
almost one-year high in January, the New York-based Conference
Board’s gauge dropped after reaching an eight-month peak in
December.  Gasoline Prices  Increasing fuel costs pose a threat to the rebound in
sentiment. A gallon of regular unleaded  gasoline  climbed to
$3.49 as of Feb. 8 from a 10-month low of $3.21 in December,
according to AAA, the nation’s largest automobile association.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and older. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for
their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate; the percentage of negative responses is subtracted from
the share of positive views and divided by three. The most
recent reading is based on the average of responses over the
previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  