-- Corporate Coalition Says Obama Investment Taxes Near World High
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-02-09T10:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/corporate-coalition-says-obama-investment-taxes-near-world-high.html
A coalition of business groups and
companies including Altria Group Inc. and Xcel Energy Inc. is
warning Congress that failing to extend tax breaks on investment
income would make U.S. tax rates on  capital gains  and dividends
among the highest in the industrialized world.  The group, the  Alliance for Savings & Investment , will
release a study today showing that the U.S. has the world’s
fourth-highest integrated tax rate on dividends and capital
gains -- 50.8 percent including the effect of the corporate
income tax and state taxes. Only France and  Denmark  have higher
tax rates than the U.S. on both capital gains and dividends,
according to the study.  “The international comparisons are very helpful because
they frame the entire debate,” Representative Peter Roskam, an
Illinois Republican who has introduced legislation to make the
current rates permanent, said in an interview. “It’s a zero-sum
game. Capital is fungible and capital is going to go where it’s
treated best.”  The campaign by the companies and business groups including
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce to keep tax rates on capital gains
and dividends from rising runs counter to President Barack Obama’s efforts. The Obama administration has proposed raising
those rates and making other tax-code changes that would limit
the benefits that wealthy individuals could receive from the
preferential tax rates on investment.  Unrealized Assets  The report “glosses over” the fact that some capital
gains are earned outside corporations and that many gains aren’t
taxed because heirs receive a step-up in the cost basis of
unrealized assets, said  Chuck Marr , director of federal tax
policy at the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities . The
Washington group advocates for policies that help low-income
Americans.  Marr said the report also ignores the total tax burden
around the world. In 2009, U.S. tax revenue of 24.1 percent of
gross domestic product was 9.7 percentage points below  the
unweighted average  of countries in the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  “If you line them up, the  United States  is actually a very
low-tax country compared to all these other countries,” he
said.  Currently, individual income in the U.S. is taxed at a top
rate of 35 percent while capital gains and dividends are taxed
at a maximum rate of 15 percent. If Congress doesn’t act by the
end of 2012, ordinary income and dividends will face a top  tax
rate  of 39.6 percent and the capital gains rate would rise to 20
percent. Obama wants to set the top rate for capital gains and
dividends at 20 percent and the top rate for ordinary income at
39.6 percent.  3.8 Percent Tax  An additional 3.8 percent tax on the unearned income of top
earners is scheduled to take effect in 2013. That was included
in the 2010 health care law.  The study was written by Robert Carroll and Gerald Prante
of Ernst & Young LLP. Carroll was a Treasury Department tax
policy official under President  George W. Bush .  Carroll and Prante calculated that if Congress doesn’t act,
the integrated tax rate on dividends would rise to 68.6 percent
and the rate on capital gains would become 56.7 percent. The
dividend rate would top the chart of major economies and the
capital gains rate would be second. They criticized the “double
taxation” of corporate profits.  “It discourages  capital investment , particularly in the
corporate sector, reducing capital formation and, ultimately,
living standards,” Carroll and Prante wrote.  Effective Rate  Daniel Shaviro, a tax law professor at  New York University ,
said those calculations assume that U.S. corporate income faces
the full 35 percent statutory tax rate, when the effective tax
rate on corporate income is lower because of cross-border tax
planning, deductions and credits.  The study, he said, also ignores any effects on the federal
 budget deficit  and the fact that the benefits of the lower rates
accrue to high-income taxpayers. About two-thirds of  the benefit 
of the preferential rates on capital gains and dividends go to
people making more than $1 million a year, according to the  Tax
Policy  Center, a nonpartisan Washington research group.  “I have some sympathy with their general policy
objectives,” Shaviro said. “You do have to think about overall
revenue and distribution.”  Democrats have been focused on the distributional effects
of preferential tax rates on investment income, and the issue
has emerged as central in this year’s campaign. Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  paid a 13.9 percent  tax rate
in 2010  on $21.6 million in adjusted gross income, in part
because most of his income was from capital gains or dividends.  ‘Buffett Rule’  Obama’s proposed “Buffett rule” to require a minimum 30
percent tax rate for people who make more than $1 million a year
would counteract the ability of investors, including billionaire
 Warren Buffett , to receive the full benefit of the capital gains
and dividends rates.  Additionally, Shaviro said, unlike the corporate income
tax, tax rates on capital gains and dividends don’t have a
significant effect on the location of investment. That’s because
the U.S. imposes taxes based on its citizens’ worldwide income.  “Unless we think the rich American’s going to move to
Iceland, it doesn’t have the same force,” Shaviro said.  Roskam said he and other Republicans will continue using
international comparisons as they seek to shape a broader
overhaul of the  tax code .  “The world isn’t waiting,” he said. “We’re wise to be
measured by the fact that other tax jurisdictions have gotten
the joke.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  