-- Credit Suisse Posts First Loss in Three Years on Investment Bank Overhaul
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-02-09T09:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/credit-suisse-posts-first-loss-in-three-years-on-investment-bank.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-
biggest Swiss bank, said it had a loss in the fourth quarter for
the first time since 2008, hurt by “adverse” markets and costs
to reorganize the investment bank.  Credit Suisse fell the most in five weeks in Zurich trading
after posting a net loss of 637 million Swiss francs ($698
million), compared with an 841 million-franc profit in the year-
earlier period. That missed the 446 million-franc average profit
 estimate  of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Credit Suisse Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  said
measures taken to accelerate a revamp of the investment bank
hurt earnings in the quarter. Dougan, who lowered the company’s
profit target and announced two rounds of job cuts last year, is
scaling down the securities division as the European sovereign
debt crisis and stricter  capital requirements  crimp earnings.
Pretax profit at the private bank slumped 43 percent with
“subdued” client activity in the fourth quarter.  “These were very weak results by any standards,” said
 Christopher Wheeler , a London-based analyst at Mediobanca SpA
who has a “neutral” rating on the stock. “Given the decline
in profitability in  wealth management , it’s clear there are
problems across the board.”  Credit Suisse fell as much as 4.9 percent and was down 2.4
percent to 24.62 francs as of 10.55 a.m. in Zurich, paring this
year’s  gain  to 12 percent. The stock was the second-worst
performer today on the 43-company Bloomberg  Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index , which rose 1.2 percent.  Good Start  Dougan said the bank has made a “good start” to 2012.  “The economic conditions, market conditions so far this
year are beginning to increase confidence in our clients, both
our corporate clients and our individual clients, throughout our
business,” Dougan said in an interview with Bloomberg
television in Zurich. “We’ve seen clearly better client
activity, better activity in general.”  The company will propose a cash distribution to
shareholders of 75 centimes a share for 2011, down from 1.30
francs a share for the previous year, the Zurich-based bank said
in a statement today.  Credit Suisse said in November it will cut risk-weighted
assets by 110 billion francs, including some 99 billion francs
at the investment bank’s fixed-income unit, by the end of 2014.
About 80 billion francs of risk-weighted asset reductions were
planned for this year. The bank now aims to complete the plan
for 2012 by the end of the first quarter.  ‘Disappointing’  The acceleration of the  risk-reduction  plan and charges for
job cuts cost the bank 981 million francs in the fourth quarter.
The firm announced 3,500 job cuts last year to help it save
about 2 billion francs in annual costs by the end of 2013.  Credit Suisse cut its total bonus pool for 2011 by 41
percent to 3 billion francs, including about 500 million francs
that will be awarded in bonds linked to derivatives, which were
designed to help the bank cut risk-weighted assets and boost its
capital position. These bonds will be expensed in the first
quarter, when the bank will also see the effect from risk
reduction, Dougan said.  “Our performance for the fourth quarter 2011 was
disappointing,” Dougan said in the statement. “It reflects
both the adverse market conditions during the period and the
impact of the measures we have taken to swiftly adapt our
business to the evolving market and regulatory requirements.”  Investment Bank Loss  Credit Suisse’s  investment bank  reported a pretax loss of
1.31 billion francs, its second consecutive quarterly loss, as
revenues slumped 64 percent in the fourth quarter. Revenue from
debt trading at 36 million francs in the quarter was hurt by 469
million francs in losses related to businesses the bank is
exiting and the reduction in risk-weighted assets, it said. The
securities unit’s risk-weighted assets were cut by 35 billion
francs in the fourth quarter on a Basel III basis. Revenue from
the sales and trading of equities dropped 45 percent to 758
million francs.  “We are worried about operational performance, in
particular the ongoing investment bank underperformance even in
the historically strong equity franchise,” JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analysts led by Kian Abouhossein said in a note. “In addition,
we see continued structural headwinds on an inflexible cost base
considering no profit generation in the investment bank.”  Private Bank  UBS  reported  two days ago a 76 percent drop in fourth-
quarter profit and a 256 million-franc pretax loss at the
investment bank as the debt crisis curbed trading.  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s biggest bank, recorded a 76 percent slump in
quarterly earnings last week as its investment bank posted a 422
million-euro ($560 million) pretax loss.  Dougan, 52, cut Credit Suisse’s  profitability goal  last
February, blaming stricter capital requirements. The bank now
aims for a return on equity of more than 15 percent over the
next three to five years, down from a previous goal of more than
18 percent. The return on equity in 2011 was 6 percent.  The private bank saw pretax profit drop to 467 million
francs in the fourth quarter. The division added 7.6 billion
francs in net new money from clients in the quarter. Earnings in
asset management slumped 52 percent to 87 million francs, as
clients removed a net 9.6 billion francs in the quarter.  Credit Suisse is seeking to boost the  private bank ’s pretax
profit by 800 million francs by 2014 as sluggish client activity
squeezes margins. The bank said in November it will integrate
its Clariden Leu unit with the rest of the private-banking
division to reduce costs.  Tax Probes  The bank plans to expand the business with ultra-high-net-
worth individuals and with clients who book assets in their
countries of residence. Hans-Ulrich Meister, who has been
heading the private bank since August, is also splitting the
European wealth-management business into two units to focus on
diverging trends in emerging and mature markets.  Credit Suisse agreed in September to pay 150 million euros
to settle proceedings in Germany against employees probed for
allegedly helping German clients evade taxes. The bank also set
aside 295 million francs for U.S. tax matters in the third
quarter.  The firm looked at the level of litigation provisions at
the end of the year and didn’t see any reason to book additional
charges, Chief Financial Officer  David Mathers  told reporters on
a conference call today.  The bank is a target of a criminal investigation by the
 U.S. Department of Justice  over former cross-border private-
banking services to American customers, the company said in
July. Eight bankers, including Credit Suisse’s former head of
North America offshore banking, were charged with conspiring to
help American clients evade taxes through secret bank accounts.  Credit Suisse is doing “everything” it can to resolve the
U.S. probe, Dougan said in an interview. While it’s “hard to
speculate,” he said the cost to Credit Suisse of resolving the
issue “could be” higher than the third-quarter provision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net ;
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  