-- U.S. Credit Swaps Rise as EU Chiefs Defer Ratifying Greek Plan
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-02-09T23:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-reverse-rise-as-greece-strikes-austerity-deal.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk rose as European finance chiefs are set to
defer ratifying a rescue package for  Greece , pressing the
government in  Athens  to put a newly struck austerity plan into
action.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
increased 2.4 basis points to a mid-price of 97 basis points at
5:54 p.m. in  New York , according to Markit Group Ltd. The index,
which typically climbs as investor confidence deteriorates and
falls as it improves, ended last week at 94.3, the lowest level
since July.  “It’s up to the Greek government by concrete actions --
through legislation, other actions -- to convince its European
partners that the second program can be made to work,” European
Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said
today as he arrived for an emergency meeting of euro-area
finance ministers in Brussels. If ratified, the 130 billion-euro
($173 billion) rescue plan may alleviate concern that euro area
bank strains would infect financial institutions’ balance sheets
worldwide.  The Markit CDX North America High Yield Index, which
declines as investor confidence deteriorates, fell 0.63
percentage point to 97.38 percent of face value.  The high-yield  bond market  “has been operating under the
assumption that something would have to happen sooner or later,
and it’s pretty fairly baked into today’s levels,” Melissa Weiler, managing director at Crescent Capital Group LP, an
alternative-credit asset manager that oversees about $9 billion,
said in a telephone interview from  Los Angeles . The credit
market is “marching to its own beat.”  “Given how the credit markets are performing right now,
it’s going to be an exogenous event that actually causes the
markets to retrace from some of this liquidity-driven euphoria
that we’ve enjoyed for the last two months or so,” Weiler said  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  