-- Credit Suisse Bonus-Bond Deferral Spares Investment-Bank Profit
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-02-09T19:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/credit-suisse-investment-bank-s-bonus-bond-deferral-helps-salvage-profit.html
Credit Suisse Group AG ’s investment
bank salvaged a full-year profit in 2011 by pushing 500 million
Swiss francs ($549 million) of employee bonus costs into 2012.  Without the deferral, the division’s 79 million franc
pretax profit would have been a loss of more than 400 million
francs. The cost, stemming from a first-of-its-kind plan to pay
a portion of last year’s bonuses in derivative-backed bonds, was
booked this year “given the structuring, given everything that
we had to do,” Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  said today
on a conference call after the bank announced fourth-quarter
results.  Booking the costs in 2011 wasn’t “an option” because of
accounting rules, Dougan said on the call.  Credit Suisse,  Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank, follows
rivals including  Morgan Stanley  and Frankfurt-based  Deutsche
Bank AG  in posting 2011 results that might have been worse
without deferring more pay.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , based in New York,
increased the portion of compensation deferred to future years
to 75 percent from 60 percent, while Deutsche Bank’s ratio
increased to 61 percent from 49 percent.  Credit Suisse’s  investment bank  would have reported a loss
for 2011 had the expense been booked last year,  Matt Spick , a
London-based analyst for Deutsche Bank, told Dougan on the call.
Such a loss might have spurred the bank to consider “clawing
back” more compensation previously awarded to employees, he
said.  “Generally for risk-taking individuals, if a division is
loss-making, they would see adjustments to past remunerations,”
Spick said.  Not An ‘Option’  “You make it sound like there was maybe an option to do it
in 2011 or 2012,” Dougan told Spick. “We didn’t really have
that option on the accounting.”  Credit Suisse posted a fourth-quarter loss of 637 million
francs and a full-year profit of 1.95 billion francs. The
investment bank reported a fourth-quarter pretax loss of 1.31
billion francs, partly stemming from “business we’re exiting,
particularly specific areas of fixed income in which we no
longer see the prospect for attractive returns,” Dougan said on
the call, according to a transcript.  Credit Suisse cut its 2011 bonus pool by 41 percent to 3
billion francs from the prior year, including the 500 million
francs for the bonus bonds, according to a slide presentation
accompanying the conference call.  Reducing Risk  Credit Suisse excluded the cost of the bonus bonds in a
separate slide estimating returns so far this year. Those awards
were “separate” from any discussion of what the company’s
performance might be this year, Chief Financial Officer  David Mathers  said on the conference call.  “I just find it very awkward that you don’t see that as an
underlying cost,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst Kian Abouhossein
said on the call. “That’s an expense that somebody gets and
will expect to get another one next year, maybe in a different
form.”  Dougan responded that he and other executives were “not
going to get into a detailed sort of reconciliation of that.”  “All we were trying to do is basically give an indication
to how the year has started, to be honest,” Dougan said.  Credit Suisse, which in 2008 awarded bonuses linked to a
pool of toxic assets, told senior staff last month that it will
be paying part of their variable compensation for 2011 in bonds
linked to derivatives. About 6,000 senior employees throughout
the Zurich-based bank are getting the bonds, Credit Suisse said
today. The bonds were designed to help the bank cut risks and
improve its capital position.  “We’re able to use an element of compensation to” reduce
risk, said Dougan. “It’s actually a fairly thoughtful and
forward-looking way of doing it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Keoun in  New York  at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  