-- CSOB Says Quarterly Net Declined 30% on Greek Bond Charge
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2012-02-09T12:59:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/csob-says-fourth-quarter-net-declined-30-on-greek-bond-charge.html
Ceskoslovenska Obchodni Banka AS, the
Czech unit of  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , said its fourth-quarter profit fell
30 percent after the lender took a charge on Greek bonds.  Net income for the three months ended Dec. 31 dropped to
2.26 billion koruna ($123.4 million) from 3.22 billion koruna a
year ago, the Prague-based lender said in a presentation on its
website today. Net interest income, the lender’s main source of
revenue, rose 1 percent to 6.25 billion koruna.  The bank was able to demonstrate “very strong”
performance under more difficult and “certainly more volatile”
market circumstances, Chief Finance Officer Bartel Puelinckx
said the press conference in Prague today. The lender’s
competitive advantage is its “strong-quality” credit
portfolio, the executive said.  Ceskoslovenska Obchodni Banka, known as CSOB, took a charge
on Greek bonds worth 600 million koruna in the fourth quarter,
the lender said. The bank already provisioned 3.1 billion koruna
of Greek state bonds and its remaining exposure as of Dec. 31
was 1.4 billion koruna, CSOB said.  The book value of CSOB’s Italian bonds is 940 million
koruna, while the book value of Spanish bonds was 610 million
koruna, the lender said. CSOB has no exposure to Irish and
Portuguese state paper, it said.  The loan portfolio grew 10 percent from a year ago to 441.1
billion koruna, driven by growth in corporate lending and
mortgages, the lender said. Deposits advanced 3 percent from a
year ago to 611.6 billion koruna.  The final decision about a dividend has not been made yet
and the matter also needs to be discussed with the regulator,
Puelinckx said. CSOB will remain adequately capitalized to
support growth in the local market, according to the executive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in  Prague  at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  