-- Cyprus Airways Says It’s Not Received Any Concrete Buyout Offers
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-02-09T11:18:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/cyprus-airways-says-it-s-not-received-any-concrete-buyout-offers.html
Cyprus Airways Ltd., the east
Mediterranean island’s loss-making airline, said it hasn’t
received any concrete buyout proposals from investors.  Kathimerini newspaper reported yesterday that  Russia ’s OAO
Aeroflot has started talks on acquiring a stake that are at an
“advanced stage,” while Lebanon’s Middle East Air Airlines has
also shown interest in buying a holding in the carrier. The
paper didn’t say where it got the information.  The state-run company, in which the Cypriot government has
a 70 percent stake, said in an e-mailed statement today that no
investor, including Russia’s Aeroflot, Lebanon’s Middle East
Airlines and “the state of Qatar,” expressed any interest so
far. In a separate statement, the airline said that it entered
into a code-share agreement with the Lebanese carrier.  Cyprus’s Cabinet gave the company the green light to
increase its capital yesterday and announced its intention to
participate in it. It also said that it would consider offers
for the sale of an unspecified stake in the company.  Last year, the airline, which  posted  29.3 million euros
($39 million) in losses in the first half of 2011, received 20
million euros in compensation from the Cypriot government for
extra costs incurred as a result of  Turkey ’s ban on Cypriot
traffic and underwent a restructuring plan in an attempt to save
40 million euros annually.  Cyprus Stock Exchange  suspended trading of the shares of
the ailing carrier pending clarifications of its financial
condition following press reports, according to a  statement  on
the CSE’s website. The company’s share rose 6.7 percent
yesterday to 0.08 cents, valuing the company at 31.3 million
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  