-- Danske’s 2,000 Job Cuts to Happen Earlier
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-02-10T08:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/danske-s-2-000-job-cuts-to-be-frontloaded-banker-pay-curbed.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  will bring forward
the 2,000 job cuts it’s planning as Denmark’s biggest lender
steps up efforts to stay competitive with European rivals, Chief
Financial Officer Henrik Ramlau-Hansen said.  “The program will be a little bit frontloaded so we’ll
take the major things in 2012 and 2013,” Ramlau-Hansen said in
an interview in Copenhagen yesterday. “That will take us a long
way to be competitive on the cost side.” There will “not
necessarily be pay cuts but we expect a rather limited
development in underlying pay,” he said.  The cuts are needed to help Danske  reduce costs  by about 2
billion kroner ($358 million), or 10 percent of its underlying
cost base, Ramlau-Hansen said. In November, the bank gave itself
three years to complete the job reduction plan. Danske is
struggling to stay competitive as it grapples with the fallout
of a burst housing bubble and regional banking crisis at home,
while loan losses at its Irish business show scant sign of
abating.  “The Irish operation is our current pain,” Ramlau-Hansen
said. “We have high impairments there and we also expect
impairments to continue at a high level for some time.”  Danske’s loan losses swelled 61 percent last quarter on
continued impairments in Ireland. The lender bought  National
Irish Bank  and Northern Bank in 2005 just before the property
bubble there burst, prompting Ireland to seek an international
bailout to stay afloat.  Causing a ‘Headache’  “It’s especially commercial property and the development
in the property and house prices that are causing us a headache
in Ireland and it will take some time before we see a
satisfactory result,” Ramlau-Hansen said.  The losses triggered by the Irish purchases have put  Danske (DANSKE) 
out of the market for acquisitions “for the time being,” he
said.  Danske’s efforts to contain costs in the face of growing
writedowns have already yielded some results. The cost-to-income
ratio fell to 54.4 percent in the fourth quarter, versus 59.3
percent a year earlier, it said yesterday.  The lender’s shares rose 1.6 percent, or 1.5 kroner, to
90.70 kroner at 9:19 a.m. in Copenhagen today. The stock is up
25 percent this year, recouping some of last year’s 45 percent
loss. Danske was today's biggest gainer on the Copenhagen
benchmark index as its shares rose to the highest since August.  ‘Completely Unsatisfactory’  The bank managed to increase its core Tier 1 capital ratio
to 11.8 percent of its risk-weighted assets last quarter, from
10.1 percent a year earlier, in part after generating 19.8
billion kroner in net proceeds from a  share sale last year .  Danske isn’t planning to raise fresh capital this year
after reaching a capital adequacy ratio Ramlau-Hansen said is
“quite satisfactory.”  “We would like to concentrate our efforts on getting our
 returns up  and then we’ll find out later” what restrictions
additional  capital requirements  for too-big-to-fail lenders
entail, he said. The bank’s current return-on-equity level is
“completely unsatisfactory,” he said.  Return on  shareholders’ equity  was 0.6 percent in the
fourth quarter, compared with 4.1 percent a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  