-- Danske Bank Fourth-Quarter Profit Tumbles as Credit Losses Soar
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-02-09T07:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/danske-bank-fourth-quarter-profit-tumbles-as-credit-losses-soar.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , Denmark’s largest
lender, said fourth-quarter net income fell 81 percent as credit
losses jumped 61 percent on continued bad loans in Ireland.  The lender reported a fourth-quarter profit of 201 million
kroner ($36 million), compared with 1.07 billion kroner a year
earlier, the Copenhagen-based bank said in a statement today.
That missed the average estimate for a 296 million-krone profit
in a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  Danske Bank shares have plunged 35 percent in the past 12 
months, underperforming the 43-member Bloomberg index of 
European financials, as the lender grapples with the fallout of 
a burst housing bubble and regional banking crisis at home. At 
the same time, Danske's Irish business continues to lose money 
as households and corporations fall in arrears on loans.  “The European debt crisis that started in southern  Europe 
escalated and affected the other EU countries,” Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Straarup , said today, in his last report before
turning over the position to Eivind Kolding on Feb. 15. “Doubts
about how the U.S. would cope with its massive  budget deficit 
also put a damper on global economic growth. The uncertainty is
likely to continue in 2012, and the foundation for economic
growth appears weak. The economic situation remains unstable.”  Net interest income, the difference between what the bank
earns from lending and what it pays on deposits, rose 1.9
percent to 6.18 billion kroner in the quarter, while its fee
income retreated 7.4 percent to 2.22 billion kroner. Danske
proposed to omit a dividend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  