-- DBS Quarterly Profit Beats Estimates, Climbs 7.8% on Singapore Loan Growth
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-02-10T03:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/dbs-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates-climbs-7-8-on-singapore-loan-growth.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) ,  Southeast
Asia ’s largest bank, posted fourth-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as loan demand climbed.  Net income rose 7.8 percent from a year earlier to S$731
million ($585 million) in the three months ended Dec. 31, the
Singapore-based lender said in a statement to the stock exchange
today. That beat the S$693.1 million  average  of seven analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Loan books  of banks in Singapore grew more than 30 percent
in the last two months of 2011, fueling earnings growth. Lending
may weaken in coming months after Singapore adopted measures to
curb mortgage lending in December and as the country’s economic
expansion cools.  “Loan growth remained quite strong over the quarter,”
said Anand Pathmakanthan, an analyst at Nomura  Singapore  Ltd.
“Going into the next quarter, higher credit costs stemming from
more loans turning sour in the face of slower economic growth,
and lower loan growth, will be the big issues the bank may have
to deal with.”  Shares of DBS climbed 0.5 percent to S$13.62 at 11:07 a.m.
in Singapore. The Straits Times Index gained 0.3 percent.  DBS’s  net interest income , the difference between what a
bank makes from lending and what it pays on deposits, grew 17
percent last quarter from a year earlier to S$1.29 billion.  Fee Income Drops  Net fees and commissions declined 4 percent to S$342 million
as earnings from stock broking, investment banking and treasury
products fell.  For the full year, net income climbed 15 percent to a
record S$3.04 billion, led by an increase in loans to businesses
across the region, with trade finance accounting for half of the
growth in lending, the bank said. DBS also proposed a dividend
of 28 cents a share, bringing the full-year payout to 56 cents a
share, the same as 2010.  “Over the year, our entire regional franchise performed
well, and many of our strategic initiatives kicked in,” Chief
Executive Officer  Piyush Gupta  said in a statement.
“Nevertheless, there is much more to be done as we remain
steadfast in our ambition to become a leading Asian bank.”  Mortgage Tightening  Lending income may face pressure after the government on
Dec. 7 imposed extra taxes on residential property purchases by
foreigners and existing homeowners.  Profitability on loans fell last quarter. DBS’s net
interest margin narrowed to 1.73 percent from 1.79 percent a
year earlier, the report showed.  The margin, already at a six-year low, may contract further
to 1.71 percent, Chin Seng Tay, an analyst at Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit, wrote in a note on Feb. 2.  The ratio of U.S. dollar loans to deposits in the currency
fell to 1.51 at the end of the fourth quarter from 1.7 three
months earlier, DBS said.  A drop in that ratio, along with stable net interest
margins, “would be positive for the bank,” Pathmakanthan said.  Singapore’s gross domestic product shrank at an annual 4.9
percent rate in the fourth quarter of last year as manufacturing
cooled. Growth in the city-state will slow to 3.6 percent this
year from 5 percent in 2011, according to the median estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  