-- Death Row Inmates Challenge FDA on Execution-Drug Imports
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-09T23:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/death-row-inmates-challenge-u-s-fda-on-allowing-imports-of-execution-drug.html
Twenty-one death row inmates asked a
U.S. judge to order the  Food and Drug Administration  to block
importation and use of a drug administered in executions, saying
the anesthesia for lethal injections hasn’t been properly vetted
by the agency.  Lawyers for the inmates argued today in federal court in
Washington that the FDA has violated the law by allowing state
departments of corrections to import sodium thiopental, a drug
used as a first-stage painkiller in the process of executing an
inmate with a lethal injection.  “The harm here is that unapproved, illegal drugs from an
unregistered, foreign establishment are going to be administered
to our clients,” Bradford Berenson of  Sidley Austin LLP (1119L)  in
Washington told U.S. District Judge Richard Leon.  Berenson argued during a 1 1/2-hour-long hearing that the
drug, which will be pumped into inmates’ veins as part of their
executions, could lead to so-called anesthesia awareness.
Arizona and  California  are two states that still have supplies
of sodium thiopental and plan to use them, he said.  Gerald Kell, a lawyer for the  Justice Department , urged
Leon to dismiss the case, arguing the FDA’s enforcement
decisions cannot be challenged in court.  “The FDA has unreviewable discretion not to bring an
enforcement action,” Kell said.  FDA ‘Deference’  Allowing thiopental into the U.S. conforms with the FDA’s
public health mission, enforcement priorities and “deference to
 law enforcement ” on capital punishment matters, the Justice
Department said in a filing seeking dismissal of the case.  Leon didn’t say when he would decide the case.  “Whatever word I come up with will not be the last word,”
Leon said, adding that he was a “way station on the road” to
the U.S. Appeals Court in  Washington .  In a lawsuit filed in February 2011, the inmates said the
FDA allowed states to import “bulk amounts” of thiopental. The
drug hasn’t been sold in the U.S. since 2009, when the sole U.S.
manufacturer,  Hospira Inc. (HSP) , stopped producing it.  The inmates are seeking an injunction barring future
imports of thiopental and the removal of supplies already in the
possession of state governments.  The shipments of thiopental entering the U.S. originated
from an Austrian facility owned by Sandoz International GmbH, a
German company, according to the complaint. The drug was shipped
to the U.S. from a London wholesaler, Dream Pharma Ltd., the
inmates said.  Dream Pharma bought the drug from a unit of Archimedes
Pharma Ltd., a closely held company based in Reading, U.K.,
according to the complaint.  The case is Beaty v. Food and Drug Administration, 11-
cv-00289, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 