-- Defensive Stocks Lose for First Time Since ’99
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2012-02-09T21:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/defensive-stocks-lose-first-time-since-1999-as-equities-resume-bull-market.html
As global stocks return to a  bull
market , the losers in the U.S. are companies least tied to
economic growth.  For the first time since 1999, Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
utilities, phone companies and providers of consumer staples
posted the only monthly losses,  slumping at least 1.5 percent 
with dividends in January, and continued to lag behind this
month. It’s a reversal from 2011, when the three defensive
industries returned more than 6.3 percent as investors embraced
stocks thought to do well during a slowdown.  Investors are shifting toward riskier assets as U.S.
manufacturing expanded the most since June and the  jobless rate 
fell to a three-year low of 8.3 percent. The MSCI All-Country
World Index has risen 20 percent from its October low, meeting
the definition of a bull market, while the dollar has weakened
against 15 of its 16 major counterparts. In 2011, the global
equity measure suffered its biggest losses since the subprime-
mortgage crisis.  “Last year, investors tended to hide in things which are
stable, paying reasonable dividends,” said Sudhir Nanda, a
 money manager  and head of the quantitative equity group at T.
Rowe Price Group Inc. in Baltimore, which oversees $489.5
billion. “This year, people looked at the U.S. and said,
‘Things are not really that bad.’ If the economy is humming,
people tend to buy more of the sectors which will profit from
growth, industrials, materials and things like that.”  Greek Agreement  The S&P 500 rose 0.2 percent to 1,351.95 today as Greek
political leaders struck a deal on a package of austerity
measures needed to secure international rescue funds.  Consolidated Edison Inc., Verizon Communications Inc. and
Philip Morris International Inc. have all fallen in 2012 after
rallying more than 12 percent last year. The  S&P 500  has gained
7.3 percent this year, including 2.9 percent in February, for
its best start since 1991.  Indexes  of financial, materials,
technology, industrial and consumer-discretionary stocks have
each outperformed the broader gauge.  S&P 500 phone companies posted the biggest decline in
January, falling 3.9 percent.  Utilities  dropped 3.7 percent, the
most since May 2010, after leading U.S. equities for the first
time in 11 years in 2011. Consumer-staples stocks, which gained
at least 10 percent in five of the previous six years, declined
1.7 percent.  Procter & Gamble Co ., the world’s largest
household-products maker, slipped 5.5 percent for the biggest
monthly drop in three years.  Unemployment Rate  Investors flocked to defensive industries in 2011 as the
U.S. unemployment rate held at or above 9 percent until October
and the European debt crisis led economists to cut forecasts for
American and global growth.  Dividends became a bigger attraction for investors than low
valuations given the perceived need for protection against
losses and with bonds paying record-low yields, Tim Paulin, vice
president of  product management  and investment research at
Touchstone Securities Inc. in Cincinnati, said in a telephone
interview.  S&P 500 telecommunications, utilities and consumer-staples
stocks pay dividend yields of 5.74 percent, 4.18 percent and
2.93 percent, respectively. None of the other seven groups in
the S&P 500 yield more than 2.17 percent.  The  S&P 500 Telecommunications Services Index ’s price-
earnings ratio climbed 43 percent higher than the entire
market’s valuation in October, the  most  since 2001. The MSCI
World Utilities Sector Index began 2012 with a valuation 87
percent higher than the broader index. Between 1995 and
September 2011, the group’s price-earnings ratio was 23 percent
below the MSCI World Index’s on average.  Looking for Yield  “People were gravitating to dividend yields,” said
Paulin, whose firm, a unit of Western & Southern Financial Group
Inc., oversees $8.4 billion. “If things don’t work out from
price appreciation in the short term, at least I get a 3, 4, 5
percent dividend yield. People bid up prices for dividend
stocks.”  The jump in so-called cyclical stocks won’t continue all
year, said  John Wilson , a money manager at Sprott Inc., which
oversaw about C$9.1 billion ($9.1 billion) as of Jan. 9. He’s
planning to buy U.S. health-care companies because they sell
products people have trouble giving up and aren’t as expensive
versus earnings as utilities and the consumer-staples group.  ‘More Difficult’  “The economy will be more difficult than people expect,”
he said during an interview in Toronto. “ Europe  will weigh more
on the economy than people think. That’s going to mean that
companies that have visibility in their earnings and recurring
revenue streams are likely to do better than those that are more
cyclically oriented.”  The shift to riskier industries began as economic data
improved. U.S. housing starts advanced to a 19-month high in
November. The  unemployment rate  fell 0.2 percentage point for
three straight months through January, the first time since 1984
that it dropped that much for so long. Bloomberg’s  Consumer
Comfort Index , based on a survey of U.S. consumers, increased
the most in five years in the fourth quarter after retreating to
near a record low.  “There’s been a glimmer of hope,” David J. Winters, the
manager of the $1.43 billion Wintergreen Fund, said in a
telephone interview from Mountain Lakes,  New Jersey . The fund
has beaten 99 percent of other funds in its category in the last
five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “People
looked at unemployment improving and are afraid of being left
out of the rush.”  Financials, Consumer Stocks  Myles Zyblock, the chief institutional strategist at Royal
Bank of Canada in Toronto, raised his rating on U.S. financial
stocks to “overweight” from “market weight” and cut his view
on consumer staples to “market weight,” citing economic growth
in a note yesterday to clients.  Dow Jones Industrial Average  companies that posted the nine
biggest gains this year declined in 2011, including cyclical
companies such as Bank of America Corp., Caterpillar Inc. and
Alcoa Inc.  “Investors are rotating back to stocks that are going to
benefit from economic growth,” Eric Mintz, who helps oversee
about $7 billion at Eagle Asset Management in  St. Petersburg ,
 Florida , said in a telephone interview. His firm favors software
makers. “It’s important to have leadership from this group in a
bull market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  