-- Payroll Deadline Nears as Democrats Focus on Jobless Benefits
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-02-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/democrats-said-to-propose-cuts-in-some-unemployment-benefits.html
Congressional Democrats made their
first proposal on one of the more contentious elements of the
payroll tax cut package with an offer to trim maximum U.S.
 unemployment benefits  by six weeks.  The plan offered to Republicans yesterday would end
unemployment benefits after 93 weeks instead of the 99 weeks now
available in states with the nation’s highest jobless rates,
according to a document explaining the proposal. Republicans
have proposed reducing the expanded jobless benefits to 59
weeks.  If Congress doesn’t act by Feb. 29, unemployment benefits
would be cut to 26 weeks.  Lawmakers are negotiating the benefits as part of a plan
that would continue a  payroll-tax  cut for workers and prevent a
drop in  Medicare (USBOMDCR)  reimbursements to doctors. The proposal was the
most substantial one offered by Democrats since a House-Senate
negotiating panel began meeting Jan. 24. Republicans said the
offer was inadequate.  “That’s what you do at the very beginning of a bargaining
session so your people can see you’re representing their
interests,” Senator  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona , one of the Republican
negotiators, told reporters yesterday. “But with a week to go,
it’s not really a good-faith offering.”  Congress in December passed a two-month extension for the
measures, through this month, because they couldn’t agree on how
to pay for them through 2012. Lawmakers aren’t scheduled to be
in Washington the week of Feb. 20, limiting the amount of time
available for negotiations.  ‘Continue to Negotiate’  Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat who crafted the unemployment compensation proposal,
said he would continue working with Republicans.  “We made an offer and we’ll continue to negotiate,” he
told reporters yesterday. “That’s the standard procedure.”  In a conference call with reporters, Representative  Sander Levin , a Michigan Democrat who is a House negotiator, urged
activists seeking extensions of jobless benefits to pressure
Republicans.  “Pour it on,” he said on the call yesterday.  As lawmakers’ skepticism about the potential for an
agreement rises, some have begun discussing the possibility of
extending the measures for several months at a time.  “We are going to extend these programs to the end of the
year,” said Representative  Kevin Brady , a Texas Republican on
the negotiating panel. “Whether we do it the right way now,
or” an “uncertain way, two months to two months, it’s going to
get done.”  $100 Billion Cost  The Democratic offer didn’t suggest how to pay the $100
billion cost of the package for the rest of the year.
Republicans have proposed paying for it by, among other things,
continuing a pay freeze for government workers, which Democrats
oppose. Democrats had proposed a surtax for high-income earners.  Republicans oppose the surtax and are urging Democrats to
come up with an alternative.  “We are still in the dark as to where the Senate Democrats
are on how we pay for all the spending,” Brady said.  Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland , a House
Democratic negotiator, said his party is “prepared to pay for
it but you shouldn’t be paying for it off the backs of middle-
income taxpayers.”  In addition to the surtax,  Van Hollen  said Democrats would
pay for the plan by ending tax benefits for oil-and-gas
companies or changing the preferential tax treatment for
carried-interest compensation to private equity and venture
capital managers.  Special Interest  “We’ve got a lot of proposals on the table,” Van Hollen
said. “But once again, they are defending special-interest tax
breaks. That’s what it always comes down to.”  The disagreement may put the measures at risk of expiring
on Feb. 29. Still, House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia
said Republicans are determined to extend the payroll tax cut.  “We are not in any way, shape or form advocating for taxes
to go up on hardworking people,” Cantor said on the House
floor.  House Republicans  were blamed for brinkmanship in December.
The House initially rejected a two-month extension of the
payroll-tax cut, then accepted the short-term deal in the face
of political pressure.  The negotiators “need to get moving” to reach an
agreement, House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  told reporters at
his weekly news conference. “The sooner the better.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in  Washington  at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  