-- Diageo Sales Growth Meets Estimates as Emerging Markets Gain
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-02-09T14:38:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/diageo-sales-growth-meets-estimates-as-emerging-markets-gain-3-.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the maker of Johnnie
Walker whiskey, reported first-half sales growth that matched
analysts’ estimates as rising demand for liquor in emerging
markets offset a slowdown in  Europe .  So-called organic revenue rose 7 percent in the six months
ended Dec. 31, the London-based company  said today . Operating
profit gained 9 percent, excluding some items, compared with the
median estimate of 11 analysts for growth of 8.4 percent.  Chief Executive Officer  Paul Walsh  said the distiller is
“cautious as to the consumer and economic trends we will face
in 2012.” The maker of Guinness stout and Smirnoff vodka has
sought to further its expansion outside Europe, where consumers
are spending less amid the sovereign-debt crisis.  “Europe remains a mixed bag,”  Martin Deboo , an analyst at
Investec Securities in London, said in a note, adding that he
doesn’t anticipate “material change” to full-year estimates.  Organic revenue rose in all of Diageo’s regions except
Europe, where it was unchanged. Sales increased 23 percent in
 Latin America  and 5 percent in  North America .  “Positive surprises came from the emerging markets”
including Latin America and  Africa , Laetitia Delaye, an analyst
at Kepler Capital Markets in Paris, wrote in a note.  Diageo  shares  were little changed at 1,462.5 pence as of
2:09 p.m. in London.  Medium-Term Goals  The distiller has a goal for organic sales growth of 6
percent in the “medium term” and to widen its operating margin
by 2 percentage points in the next three years. The margin
improved by 0.6 percentage points in the first half.  The U.S., the world’s largest market for spirits, “had a
very encouraging performance,” Chief Financial Officer Deirdre Mahlan said on a conference call. Sales of “strategic” brands
are improving, she said, and the Smirnoff vodka and Captain
Morgan rum brands returned to growth in the second quarter.
Diageo offered fewer promotions on lower-priced brands, leading
to a loss of market share in the country, Mahlan said.  Sales in so-called  emerging markets  now represent almost 40
percent of the business, the company said today. Diageo has
 acquired  businesses including Met Abo Brewery in  Ethiopia , and
completed the $2.1 billion purchase of  Turkey ’s Mey Alkollu
Ickiler Sanayi & Ticaret AS in August last year.  Acquisition Opportunities  “The acquisitions we’ve done recently have all been in
emerging markets, but I wouldn’t exclude developed-market
acquisitions if we think there’s one that’s going to grow our
business in the future,” Mahlan said. The company looks at
“all of the opportunities” for acquisitions, she said, when
asked whether Diageo would consider making an offer for all or
some of  Beam Inc., (BEAM)  the maker of Jim Beam bourbon.  Diageo is in talks with the Beckmann family, which owns the
Jose Cuervo tequila brand, as its distribution agreement expires
in June 2013, Mahlan said. The company held talks about buying
the brand for more than $2 billion, three people with knowledge
of the matter said in May.  “We would like to have a deeper interest in the Cuervo
brands,” she said, “whether through equity participation or
deeper participation.”  Walsh, who is also a non-executive director of Unilever,
said speculation that he may step down as Diageo CEO is
“premature.” Walsh is seen as a candidate to take over from
Michael Treschow, the current chairman of Unilever, the Sunday
Times newspaper reported in October.  “We put out our mid-term guidance, and I’d expect to see
that guidance being fulfilled,” Walsh said.  Diageo’s revenue growth figures were reported on a basis
that excludes acquisitions, disposals and currency fluctuations.
Overall growth was slower than the first quarter’s 9 percent,
which Diageo said in October benefited from some non-recurring
events.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  