-- Disney Seizes Low Interest Rates With Fourth Bond Sale in Year
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-02-09T21:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/disney-seizes-low-interest-rates-with-fourth-bond-sale-in-year.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  raised $1.4 billion
in its fourth bond sale within a year as the biggest U.S.
entertainment company by market value takes advantage of
corporate bond yields at about record lows.  The company issued $1 billion of 1.125 percent, five-year
notes that yield 47 basis points above similar-maturity
Treasuries and $400 million of 2.55 percent, 10-year debt at a
62 basis-point spread, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Before today’s offering, Burbank, California-based Disney had
sold $3.95 billion of bonds since May, the data show.  Disney joined blue-chip American companies from  Procter &
Gamble Co . to McDonald’s Corp. in snagging borrowing costs at
almost all-time lows as the Federal Reserve pledges to hold
 interest rates  near zero percent through at least late 2014.
Average yields on investment-grade debt sank to 3.53 percent
yesterday, 8 basis points above the record low of 3.45 percent
reached in August, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  “We’ve obviously increased our debt because of the
availability of money at these great rates,” Chief Financial
Officer James Rasulo said in a Feb. 7 conference call to discuss
earnings. “For what we borrowed in both the amounts and our
rating, we really almost always in the past year saw
historically low coupon rates on that debt.”  The company cut borrowing costs on both of its issues
today, Bloomberg data show. Disney offered $750 million of 1.35
percent, five-year notes in August, a record low at that time,
and $750 million of 2.75 percent, 10-year debt.  Timing Debt Issues  In Disney’s previous bond sale in November, the company set
a 0.875 percent coupon on $1 billion of three-year notes, its
lowest ever, Bloomberg data show.  “We’ve timed our steps into the debt marketplace very
carefully and put a lot of time into picking what we think will
be a low entry points and we’ve been very successful in doing
that,” Rasulo said.  Before the string of offerings in the past year, Disney had
last tapped the market in 2009 for $500 million of 5.5 percent
notes, Bloomberg data show.  The company is  graded  A2 by Moody’s Investors Service and
an equivalent A by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings,
Bloomberg data show.  Disney has room to issue more debt while maintaining its
single-A credit grade, which “served us incredibly well over
the past decade including when liquidity dried up for most
companies in 2008,” Rasulo said in the conference call this
week.  “We’ve got a couple of maturities that we’d like to fill
in and when we see the opportunity to step in at great rates I
think you’ll see us doing that,” he said. “As time passes
we’ll have some maturities that we’ll refill but don’t expect us
to back the truck up to the point where we have to give up that
great debt, that great balance sheet and great  Standard & Poor’s 
rating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  