-- DNB to Return to 50% Dividend as Soon as Possible, CFO Says
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-02-09T15:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/dnb-to-get-back-to-50-dividend-as-soon-as-possible-cfo-says.html
DNB ASA (DNB)  will seek to get back to
paying a 50 percent dividend as quickly as possible after it
halved its payout to comply with stricter capital standards, the
bank’s chief financial officer said.  “The payout should be around 50 percent in a long-term
perspective, so we hope we back to that level as soon as
possible,” Bjoern Erik Naess said today in an interview. “For
the time being we need to balance the interest of the regulator
and the trend is obvious. Banks need to strengthen their capital
adequacy. So for the time being we allocate more of the net
profit than we would normally like to do.”  The second-largest Nordic lender today announced it cut its
payout to shareholders to increase capital ahead of tighter
capital adequacy standards and avoid a deleveraging of its loan
book. The bank will pay a 2 kroner  dividend  for 2011, down from
4 kroner for 2010, after reporting net income fell 12 percent to
13 billion. The payout out for last year will equal about 25
percent, down from 46 percent in 2010. Bloomberg  forecasts  show
that the dividend won’t return to 4 kroner a share until 2015.  European banks will be required to meet tougher regulatory
standards on the amount of core tier 1 capital on their balance
sheets in order to reassure investors that they will be able to
withstand the debt crisis.  The European Banking Authority told
banks in December to raise the money from investors, retained
earnings and lower bonuses.  DNB wants to maintain “sufficient capital to continue to
grow and to provide credit in the market,” Naess said.  “Many
European banks in the past are not able to do that.  Instead
they need to deleverage the balance sheet.  We don’t want to
come into that situation.”  DNB reported an equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 9.4 percent
at the end of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo  at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  