-- Dougan Says Faster Asset Reduction Will Benefit Credit Suisse
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-02-09T11:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/dougan-says-faster-asset-reduction-will-benefit-credit-suisse.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  Chief
Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  said the acceleration of the
bank’s risk-reduction program will benefit the company as
competitors also will seek to cut assets.  The “bulk” of risk-weighted asset reductions by European
banks is still to come, Dougan told journalists at a press
conference in Zurich today. Speeding up Credit Suisse’s asset
cuts “will put us in a better position,” he said.  Credit Suisse, the second-biggest Swiss bank, earlier today
reported its first quarterly loss since 2008 as measures taken
to expedite a revamp of the investment bank hurt earnings. The
investment bank cut risk-weighted assets by 35 billion Swiss
francs ($38.4 billion) in the three-month period on a Basel III
basis, and now aims to complete the reductions planned for 2012
by the end of the first quarter.  While acceleration of the cuts “cost us money” in the
fourth quarter, it would probably have cost more if it were done
later, Dougan said. That will give Credit Suisse an advantage on
competitors that are seeking to trim assets as well, he said.  Twenty-two European lenders plan to cut risk-weighted
assets by a combined 1.2 trillion euros ($1.6 trillion), or
about 15 percent,  Kian Abouhossein , an analyst at New York-based
JPMorgan Chase & Co., estimated last year.  Capital Ratios  Credit Suisse said in November it will lower risk-weighted
assets by 110 billion francs, including some 99 billion francs
at the investment bank’s fixed-income unit, by the end of 2014.
About 80 billion francs of risk-weighted asset cuts were planned
for this year. The bank doesn’t plan to increase the total
amount of reductions, Dougan said.  Risk-weighted asset reductions will help the bank boost its
capital ratios under Basel III rules, which lag behind some
rivals. Credit Suisse said today it expects to have a common
equity ratio of 7.1 percent on fully applied Basel III rules by
the end of this year and 9.9 percent by the end of 2013.  “Despite the effective deleveraging and the dividend cut,
Credit Suisse’s Basel III look-through ratio still appears at
the low end of global peers of 8 to 10 percent by the end of
2012,” said Huw van Steenis, a London-based analyst at Morgan
Stanley.  The Zurich-based company will propose a cash distribution
to shareholders of 75 centimes a share for 2011, down from 1.30
francs a share for the previous year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  