-- DP World Said to Be Seeking Loan to Help Repay Half of $3 Billion Facility
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2012-02-09T16:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/dp-world-said-to-be-seeking-loan-to-help-repay-half-of-3-billion-facility.html
DP World Ltd. (DPW) , the world’s fourth-
biggest port operator, has begun talks with banks for a loan to
help repay half of a $3 billion credit facility that matures in
October, a banker familiar with the talks said.  The Dubai World-controlled company is talking to HSBC
Holdings Plc, Standard Chartered Plc and Citigroup Inc. for a
new $1.5 billion loan, the banker said, declining to be
identified because the information is private. It will pay the
remaining $1.5 billion with its own cash, he said. DP World
raised a revolving credit facility in October 2007 at a margin
of 45 basis points over the London interbank offered rate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A spokeswoman for DP World could not be reached for a
comment outside office hours. Officials for HSBC,  Standard
Chartered  and Citigroup in Dubai declined to comment.  DP World, which operates more than 60 terminals across six
continents, is expanding operations in  China ,  India  and the
 Middle East  as it seeks to boost capacity to 100 million twenty-
foot equivalent container units by 2020,  according to its
website . The company said in December it will invest $850
million in the next three years to expand capacity at its
flagship Jebel Ali port in Dubai.  Dubai and its related companies shoulder $129.3 billion of
debt, amounting to 149 percent of GDP, of which $15.5 billion is
due this year, according to  Bank of America Corp. Merrill Lynch 
estimates. The emirate, home to the world’s tallest tower and
palm-shaped islands, borrowed the money during a regional
economic boom to turn itself into a financial, trade and tourist
hub.  DP World handled 54.7 million TEUs at its ports last year
compared with 49.6 million TEUs a year earlier, it said Jan. 31.
It forecast full-year gross profit to be “in line with
expectations” on the back of a 10 percent increase in container
volumes last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net 
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  