-- DP World Said to Seek Loan to Repay Half of a $3 Billion Credit Facility
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2012-02-09T22:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/dp-world-said-to-seek-loan-to-repay-half-of-3-billion-facility.html
DP World Ltd. (DPW) , the world’s fourth-
biggest port operator, started talks with banks for a loan to
help pay half of a $3 billion credit facility maturing in
October, a banker familiar with the discussions said.  The Dubai World-controlled company is talking to  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and Citigroup Inc. for a
$1.5 billion loan, the banker said, asking not to be identified
because the information is private. DP World, rated the lowest
investment grade at Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings,
will pay the remaining $1.5 billion with its own cash, he said.
It secured the five-year revolving credit facility in October
2007 at a margin of 45 basis points over the London interbank
offered rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Raising the money “shouldn’t be an issue as they have now
been rated investment grade by two of the rating agencies,”
Abdul Kadir Hussain, chief executive officer at Dubai-based fund
manager Mashreq Capital DIFC Ltd., said in a phone interview
yesterday. “They have come through a strong set of results,
over the last year or so and they have pretty much ring-fenced
themselves quite well from the Dubai World situation.”  DP World, which operates more than 60 terminals across six
continents, is expanding operations in  China ,  India  and the
 Middle East  as it seeks to boost capacity to 100 million twenty-
foot equivalent container units by 2020,  according to its
website . The company said in December it will invest $850
million in the next three years to expand capacity at its
flagship Jebel Ali port on the outskirts of Dubai.  A spokeswoman for DP World couldn’t be reached for a
comment outside office hours. Officials at HSBC,  Standard
Chartered  and Citigroup in Dubai declined to comment.  Dubai World  Dubai World roiled global markets in 2009 by announcing
plans to delay payments on $25 billion of debt. It reached an
agreement with creditors in March to restructure the loans.  Dubai and its related companies shoulder $129.3 billion of
debt, amounting to 149 percent of GDP, of which $15.5 billion is
due this year, according to  Bank of America Corp. Merrill Lynch .
The emirate, home to the world’s tallest tower, borrowed funds
during a regional economic boom to turn itself into a financial,
trade and tourist hub.  DP World handled 54.7 million TEUs at its ports last year
compared with 49.6 million TEUs a year earlier, it said Jan. 31.
It forecast full-year gross profit to be “in line with
expectations” after reporting a better-than-expected 36 percent
rise in first-half profit to $281 million.  DP World has $10.8 billion of debt and interest payments
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company had $4.1 billion in cash at the end of June.  Yield Declines  The yield on the port operator’s 6.25 percent Islamic bond
due in July 2017 fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 5.43 percent yesterday, the lowest since Oct. 31, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The rate has dropped 49 basis points
this year.  DP World is refinancing half of the outstanding credit
facility, “so they are deleveraging,” Hussain said. “It’s
positive for the credit.”  DP World agreed a 20-year financing with a group of
international banks to fund its London Gateway deep-sea port, it
said on Oct. 6. The company, which said it will invest an
additional $1 billion in the project over the next three years,
will use an equal mix of debt and equity to finance it.  Jebel Ali Free Zone FZE, a business park operator also
owned by  Dubai World , is in talks with banks for a loan to help
pay a 7.5 billion-dirham ($2 billion) Islamic bond maturing in
November, two people familiar with the matter said Feb. 7. Dubai
Group, an  investment company  owned by the emirate’s ruler,
offered to pay back creditors over five to 10 years as it seeks
to restructure $6 billion of bank debt, a banker familiar with
the proposal said on Feb. 6, asking not to be identified as the
negotiations are private.  DP World’s shares fell 0.9 percent to $11 on Nasdaq Dubai
today. They have risen  14 percent  this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  