-- Draghi Softens Outlook on Risks as ECB Refuses to Show Its Hand on Greece
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-02-09T16:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/draghi-softens-outlook-on-risks-as-ecb-refuses-to-show-its-hand-on-greece.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  signaled the economic outlook has improved, suggesting
policy makers may be less inclined to add to stimulus as Greece
reached agreement on austerity measures to secure a bailout.  “The economic outlook remains subject to high uncertainty
and downside risks,” Draghi said at a press conference in
Frankfurt today. Last month, he said the outlook was subject to
“substantial” downside risks. The ECB left its  benchmark
interest rate  at a record low of 1 percent, as predicted by 55
of 57 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey , and Draghi said
officials didn’t discuss a rate change.  “With the more optimistic outlook, a March rate cut is
still possible but far from certain,” said  Christian Schulz ,
senior economist at Berenberg Bank in  London . “If the rebound
in confidence indicators gains strength and more hard data
confirms the trend, the ECB may leave rates unchanged.”  Draghi spoke as Greek political leaders reached agreement
on measures required for a new rescue package to stave off
default. That may pave the way for a deal to write off about
half the face value of Greek bonds held by private investors, or
about 100 billion euros ($133 billion). Both are key steps
toward avoiding default and ending the debt crisis.  Greek Bonds  While Draghi didn’t rule out that the ECB may use its own
Greek bond holdings to help alleviate the nation’s debt burden,
he said he can’t comment until after euro-area finance ministers
meet in Brussels tonight.  “I cannot say anything on how our holdings of Greek bonds
will be treated,” Draghi said. Talk of the ECB sharing losses
is “unfounded” and “it is not our intention to violate” the
prohibition on monetary state financing.  The euro rose after Draghi spoke, trading at $1.3303 at
5:04 p.m. in  Frankfurt , up 0.3 percent on the day. German bonds
fell, pushing the yield on the country’s 10-year government
security up 5 basis points to 2.036 percent.  The ECB has purchased 219 billion euros of debt-strapped
nations’ bonds since May 2010. Between 36 billion euros and 55
billion euros are invested in Greek sovereign debt, according to
estimates by  Barclays Capital  and UBS AG.  EFSF Swap  The ECB is considering selling those bonds to the region’s
rescue fund, the European Financial Stability Facility, at the
knock-down price it paid for them, forgoing any profit, two
euro-area officials who declined to be identified said late last
week. The EFSF could then pass that saving on to  Greece  or even
take a loss on the bonds, helping to alleviate the nation’s debt
load without compromising the ECB’s independence.  “If you make a loss on the sales, this is monetary
financing,” Draghi said. “The EFSF is governments, so if the
ECB gives money to governments that’s monetary financing. If the
ECB distributes part of its profits to its member countries as
part of its capital key, that’s not monetary financing.”  Draghi is saying “that the sale of ECB-owned Greek
 government bonds  to the EFSF without a loss would not mean
financing states with central bank money,” said  Joerg Kraemer ,
chief economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “It has thus
become more likely that the ECB in the end participates in a
Greek debt restructuring.”  Draghi has been instrumental in easing the debt turmoil in
his first 100 days in office, offering banks unlimited three-
year loans and reversing the two rate hikes implemented by his
predecessor,  Jean-Claude Trichet .  ‘Gradual’ Recovery  Bond yields from  Italy  to Ireland have declined and latest
economic data suggest the 17-nation euro region may avoid a
prolonged recession. Business confidence in  Germany ,  Europe ’s
largest economy, rose to a five-month high in January and
factory orders gained 1.7 percent in December.  “Real gross domestic product growth in the fourth quarter
of 2011 is likely to have been very weak,” Draghi said. “There
are tentative signs of stabilization in economic activity at a
low level. Looking ahead, we expect the euro-area economy to
recover very gradually in the course of 2012.”  In December, the ECB forecast economic growth of 0.3
percent this year and 1.3 percent in 2013. It will publish new
projections in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Frankfurt at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  