-- Draghi Says Talk About ECB Sharing Greek Losses ‘Unfounded’
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-02-09T14:40:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/draghi-says-euro-area-economy-shows-signs-of-stabilization-.html
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi comments on monetary policy and the sovereign debt
crisis.  He made the remarks at a press conference in Frankfurt
today after the ECB kept interest rates unchanged at a record
low of 1 percent.  On  Greece :  “ Having a Plan B means you’re defeated already.”  “I’m quite confident that all pieces will fall into their
proper places. I really want to see what comes out of the
eurogroup tonight. It will be premature to say anything at this
stage.”  “The EFSF is like governments. If you give money to
governments, it’s monetary financing. If you make a loss on
these sales, it’s monetary financing.”  “ The most important thing about Greece is the agreement
that’s been reached.”  “We always focus ourselves on the need of financing
things, but the most important thing is the reforms the
countries make.”  The ECB is “not a negotiating party” in Greek debt-swap
talks.  “Everybody has been talking about what the ECB could or
couldn’t do. The ECB didn’t say anything. The only thing I can
say today is still nothing.”  “It is not our intention to violate the monetary financing
condition.”  “We want to maintain and keep the risk of this assessment
with the national central bank so that they can bear the full
risk of their choices. You can rest assured that this is my
position. All this talk about the ECB sharing the losses is
unfounded. But I can’t say what we can do until tonight after
the euro group.”  The leaders of Greece’s main political parties have reached
an agreement on austerity measures needed to secure a second
international rescue program, Draghi said.  “I cannot say anything on how our holdings of Greek bonds
will be treated.”  Euro-area finance ministers will meet in Brussels today to
discuss a second Greek bailout. “We will have a full report on
the agreement and also a discussion of the next steps.”  On the EU fiscal agreement:  “The fiscal compact is a major political event. It
testifies of the willingness of  member states  to release
sovereignty -- partly -- in the budget area.”  On ECB loans to banks:  “The use of these proceeds is a business decision. Our
primary interest is in lending to the real economy. That’s where
we see most of the credit tightening.”  “We are indeed concerned by this slowing down in credit.
We have to wait, because part of it has to do with the funding
pressure that banks anticipated for the first quarter of the
year and which we removed with our first LTRO.”  On non-standard measures:  “There is no stigma whatsoever on these facilities.”  “Through our non-standard monetary policy measures we will
continue to support the functioning of the euro area financial
sector, and thus the financing of the real economy. Since the
first three-year longer-term refinancing operation (LTRO) was
conducted in December 2011 we have approved specific national
eligibility criteria and risk control measures for the temporary
acceptance in a number of countries of additional credit claims
as collateral in euro system credit operations, which should
lead to an increase in available collateral. Further details
will be provided in a press release to be published today at
3.30 p.m. At the start of the current reserve maintenance period
on 18 January 2012 the reserve ratio was reduced, freeing up
additional collateral. As stated on previous occasions, all our
non-standard measures are temporary in nature.”  On his first 100 days in office:  “I have respected the mandate of the ECB, which is to
maintain  price stability  in the medium term. Inflation
expectations have remained firmly anchored. Admittedly it’s a
very short time to judge someone. It could have been much
worse.”  On the economy:  “Real GDP growth in the fourth quarter of 2011 is likely
to have been very weak. According to the survey data for the
last two months, there are tentative signs of stabilization in
economic activity at a low level. Looking ahead, we expect the
euro area economy to recover very gradually in the course of
2012. The very low short-term interest rates and all the
measures taken to foster the proper functioning of the euro area
financial sector are lending support to the euro area economy.
Moreover, stress in financial markets has diminished in response
to our monetary policy measures, but also in response to the
progress made towards a stronger euro area governance framework
and intensified fiscal consolidation in several euro area
countries. However, subdued global demand growth, the remaining
tensions in euro area sovereign debt markets and their impact on
credit conditions, as well as the process of balance sheet
adjustment in the financial and non-financial sectors, continue
to dampen the underlying growth momentum.  “This outlook is subject to downside risks. They notably
relate to tensions in euro area debt markets and their potential
spillover to the euro area real economy. Downside risks also
relate to possible adverse developments in the global economy,
higher than assumed increases in commodity prices, protectionist
pressures and the potential for a disorderly correction of
global imbalances.  “Euro area annual HICP inflation was 2.7 percent in
January 2012, according to Eurostat’s flash estimate, unchanged
from December. The average inflation rate for 2011 was 2.7
percent, mainly driven by higher energy and other commodity
prices. Looking ahead, inflation is likely to stay above 2
percent for several months to come, before declining to below 2
percent. This pattern reflects the expectation that, in an
environment of weak growth in the euro area and globally,
underlying price pressures in the euro area should remain
limited.  “Risks to the medium-term outlook for price developments
remain broadly balanced. On the upside, they relate to higher
than assumed increases in indirect taxes and administered
prices, as well as increases in commodity prices. The main
downside risks relate to the impact of weaker than expected
growth in the euro area and globally.”  On monetary policy:  “Based on our regular economic and monetary analyses, we
decided to keep the key ECB  interest rates  unchanged. The
information that has become available since mid-January broadly
confirms our previous assessment. Inflation is likely to stay
above 2 percent for several months to come, before declining to
below 2 percent. Available survey indicators confirm some
tentative signs of stabilization in economic activity at a low
level around the turn of the year, but the economic outlook
remains subject to high uncertainty and downside risks. The
underlying pace of monetary expansion remains subdued. Looking
ahead, it is essential for monetary policy to maintain price
stability for the euro area as a whole. This ensures a firm
anchoring of inflation expectations in line with our aim of
maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over the
medium term. Such anchoring is a prerequisite for monetary
policy to make its contribution to supporting economic growth
and job creation in the euro area. A very thorough analysis of
all incoming data and developments over the period ahead is
warranted.”  On Ireland:  “In spite of enormous challenges, the Irish government
ought to be praised for the constant effort it makes on its
reforms.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  