-- Draghi Slams Bankers Shunning Loans From Three-Year ECB Financing Program
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-02-10T09:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/draghi-slams-virility-statements-as-ackermann-shuns-ecb-loans.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  lashed out at bankers who said tapping the ECB’s
three-year-loan program carries a stigma, after executives
including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s  Josef Ackermann  said they shunned
the loans.  “There is no stigma whatsoever on these facilities,”
Draghi said at a press conference in Frankfurt yesterday. “Some
have made some sort of statements that I would call statements
of virility, namely it would be undignified for a bank, a
serious bank, to access these facilities. Now let me say that
the very same banks that made these statements access facilities
of different kinds -- but still government facilities.”  The statements by Draghi, who didn’t identify any banks by
name, came a week after Deutsche Bank Chief Executive Officer
Ackermann said  Germany ’s biggest lender didn’t tap the ECB in
December because it could damage its reputation with customers.
The ECB awarded 489 billion euros ($650 billion) in loans to 523
banks on Dec. 21 to keep credit flowing to the economy as
Europe’s debt crisis drove up banks’ borrowing costs. The ECB
will offer a second batch of the loans this month.  ING Groep NV CEO Jan Hommen told reporters on a conference
call yesterday that the biggest Dutch financial-services company
didn’t take the loans in December, partly because of
reputational risk. It’s discussing internally whether to take
loans in the second program, he said.  ‘Careless at Best’  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank,
didn’t access the ECB’s lending program in December and won’t in
the future, CEO Brady Dougan said yesterday in a Bloomberg
Television interview.  Sergio Ermotti , the CEO of  UBS AG (UBSN) , told
analysts and journalists on Feb. 7 that the largest Swiss bank
didn’t borrow from the ECB because its funding and financial
position didn’t make it necessary.  Some analysts said avoiding the loans is self-defeating.  The last offering “has removed any stigma, making
managements who do not exploit the value on offer arguably
careless at best,” Credit Suisse analysts led by William Porter
wrote in a Jan. 16 report to clients.  Banks in peripheral European countries such as Greece,
 Spain  and  Italy  have been harder hit by the sovereign-debt
crisis, driving up their funding costs in lockstep with the
countries’, while lenders in Germany and Switzerland have been
less affected.  “The German banks aren’t in need of the ECB money as much
as their peers in southern  Europe  who are pretty much dry,”
Horst Loechel, a professor of economics at the Frankfurt School
of Finance and Management, said before Draghi’s comments. “From
a macroeconomic perspective it makes perfect sense and was a
great move from the ECB.”  ‘Virtuous’ Governments  The banking and funding crisis “originates from a
sovereign crisis, and so the banks that happen to be located in
governments that have no fiscal crisis, that have always done
the right reforms, should give more credit to their governments
really for having been virtuous all along,” Draghi said.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s second-biggest bank, took 12
billion euros from the ECB in December and expects to
participate in the February auction, CEO Enrico Tommaso Cucchiani told reporters in Milan on Feb. 7. The loans were
“essential for some banks” and “useful for other banks,
including Intesa,” Cucchiani said. In Spain,  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , the country’s second-biggest lender,
announced it borrowed 11 billion euros from the ECB in December.  Lesson Learned  In the U.K.,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  borrowed 5
billion pounds ($7.9 billion) in the December auction, a person
familiar with the matter said, while HSBC Holdings Plc took an
undisclosed sum, said a person at the bank. Spokesmen at the
companies declined to comment.  Societe Generale SA, BNP Paribas SA and Credit Agricole SA,
 France ’s three largest banks, also participated for an
undisclosed amount, according to a Morgan Stanley note published
Jan. 18 based on conversations with the lenders. Spokesmen at
the banks declined to comment.  Ackermann told analysts on Feb. 2 that Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank may consider participating in the next round of
ECB loans if it is “very attractive from an economic point of
view.” The German lender has impressed customers by not
requiring direct government aid during the financial crisis,
Ackermann said.  “The fact that we have never taken any money from the
government has made us from a reputational point of view so
attractive to so many clients in the world that we would be very
reluctant to give that up,” said Ackermann, 64.  Deutsche Bank’s decision to avoid the loans follows the
disclosure of its borrowings from the U.S. Federal Reserve’s
emergency-loan program during the credit crunch in 2008.  “We learned our lesson during the Fed activity, where we
were encouraged to borrow money from the Fed on a confidential
level and later on the list was disclosed, and we heard that we
had to accept help from the government,” Ackermann said. “We
just don’t want to do that, and that’s why we have not
participated.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in  Frankfurt  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net  