-- Draghi’s First 100 Days Presage Greek Help
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-02-09T12:03:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/draghi-s-first-100-days-presage-ecb-aid-to-avoid-greek-default.html
In his first 100 days as European
Central Bank President,  Mario Draghi  has taken unprecedented
action to tackle the sovereign debt crisis.  Greece  may push him
even further into unknown territory.  Draghi will today face questions on the ECB’s possible role
in helping Greece reduce its debt as the threat of a disorderly
default mounts. While the ECB has remained silent on its
intentions, options canvassed range from selling its Greek bond
holdings at the discount price it paid for them to taking a loss
on the Greek assets held in investment portfolios, two euro-area
officials said late last week on condition of anonymity.  At stake is whether Greece can complete a private sector
deal to lower its debt by as much as 100 billion euros ($133
billion) and secure a second bailout package that will allow it
to pay its bills -- key steps toward ending the debt crisis. The
ECB has been instrumental in easing the turmoil since Draghi
took the reins on Nov. 1, offering banks unlimited three-year
loans and reversing the two rate hikes implemented by his
predecessor,  Jean-Claude Trichet .  “When Mario Draghi looks back this week at his first 100
days as ECB president, he can be satisfied,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING Group in Brussels. “But
pressure on the ECB to join the burden sharing on Greece has
increased. Everything will be done to avoid a disorderly
default, at least in the short term.”  Interest Rates  ECB policy makers meeting in Frankfurt today, Draghi’s
101st in office, will keep the  benchmark interest rate  at a
record low of 1 percent, according to 55 of 57 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey . Two predict a cut to 0.75 percent. The
decision will be announced at 1:45 p.m. and Draghi holds a press
conference 45 minutes later.  Separately, the  Bank of England  expanded its asset-purchase
program by 50 billion pounds ($80 billion) to 325 billion pounds
and left its key rate at a record-low 0.5 percent.  Greece remains center stage in Europe more than two years
after it triggered the debt crisis with its ballooning debt.  Premier  Lucas Papademos  is still struggling to unite
political parties on the austerity measures needed to secure a
second bailout from euro-area governments, while a deal to write
off 70 percent of the value of bonds held by private investors
remains to be finalized. Greece’s private creditors plan to meet
in Paris today.  ‘Issues Outstanding’  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said this
morning there are still “issues outstanding” that must be
resolved by the time euro-region finance ministers meet later
today. That meeting is scheduled for 6 p.m. in Brussels,
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said late
yesterday, without specifying an agenda. Euro-area politicians
must sign off on any Greek aid accord reached by negotiators.  The ECB has purchased 219 billion euros of debt-strapped
nations’ bonds since May 2010. Between 36 billion euros and 55
billion euros are invested in Greek sovereign debt, according to
estimates by  Barclays Capital  and UBS AG.  The ECB is considering selling those bonds to the European
Financial Stability Facility at the knock-down price it paid for
them, forgoing any profit, two euro-area officials said late
last week. The EFSF could then pass that saving on to Greece or
even take a loss on the bonds, helping to alleviate the nation’s
debt load without compromising the ECB’s independence. There are
still hurdles to that option, the officials said.  Three-Year Loans  Another course is for euro-area central banks to give up
profits or take losses on Greek bonds in their separate
investment portfolios, which are not part of monetary policy
operations.  So far, Draghi hasn’t signaled any ECB involvement in a
Greek restructuring. Instead, the ECB has focused on warding off
a looming credit crunch and encouraging lenders to re-enter
sovereign debt markets.  On Dec. 21, it allotted a record 489 billion euros in
three-year loans to banks, the first of two such operations. In
the run-up to the second offering on Feb. 28, the central bank
is finalizing a broadening of the pool of collateral banks can
use to obtain the cash.  ‘Doing More’  “The ECB is doing more,” said Marchel Alexandrovich,
senior European economist at Jefferies International Ltd. in
 London . “Six months ago we basically had the ECB fighting
behind the scenes with the politicians, there was a lot of
uncertainty. Now, while Greece is still an issue, they seem to
be moving roughly in the same direction.”  European leaders have taken up Draghi’s idea of a “fiscal
compact,” agreeing to a treaty that will speed sanctions on
high-deficit states and require euro countries to anchor
balanced-budget rules in national law.  There are signs that Draghi’s strategy is paying off.
Bloomberg indexes of  Europe ’s banks and financial conditions are
the highest since August, and money-market lending rates and
bond yields from  Italy  to  Spain  are sliding.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA is selling senior,
unsecured bonds in the first benchmark offering of the debt from
a Spanish bank since October. Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, Italy’s
second-biggest bank, sold senior, unsecured bonds last month,
and Commerzbank AG, Credit Agricole SA and Allianz SE are also
planning to issue unsecured debt.  Economic Growth  Intesa Chief Executive Officer Enrico Tommaso Cucchiani
said this week that some of the money from the ECB’s three-year
tender will be used to buy Italian  government bonds .  “If the euro crisis is kept under control, the chances of
economic growth returning in the third quarter for the euro zone
as a whole are good,” said  Christian Schulz , an economist at
Berenberg Bank in London.  It remains unclear exactly how big Europe’s permanent
financial backstop will be, leaving the ECB exposed in the event
of a Greek default, said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research at
 ABN Amro  in Amsterdam.  “The lack of a firewall is what ultimately creates
pressure for extra responsibility for the ECB,” Kounis said.
“If the talks in  Athens  fail, then they may have to deal with a
re-escalation of the whole crisis spiral that we saw last
year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  