-- DS Waters Said to Restructure $535 Million Loan Refinancing
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-02-09T22:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/ds-waters-said-to-restructure-535-million-loan-refinancing-1-.html
DS Waters of America Inc. changed the
structure on $535 million in loans it’s seeking to refinance
debt, according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  The distributor of bottled water products cut the size of a
5.5 year first-lien  term loan  to $340 million from $465 million
with $285 million funded at close and the remaining $55 million
structured as a delay-draw term loan, the person said.  The Atlanta-based company is also now offering a $125
million second-lien portion with $105 million funded at close
and $20 million in the form of a delayed-draw term loan, said
the person, who declined to be identified because the terms are
private.  DS Waters will pay first-lien lenders interest at 9
percentage points more than the London interbank offered rate up
from 6.75 percentage points to 7 percentage points initially
offered with a 1.5 percent minimum on the lending benchmark, the
person said.  Lenders are being offered one-year soft-call protection of
101 cents, meaning the company would have to pay 1 cent more
than face value to refinance the debt during the first year, the
person said.  The six year, second-lien term loan carries a so-called
pay-in-kind feature, meaning part of the interest payment will
be made only upon maturity, the person said. The loan pays
interest at 9.5 percentage points more than Libor, with a 1.5
percent floor on the lending benchmark, the person said. The 4
percentage-point PIK payment accrues on a quarterly basis.  Asset-Based Revolver  DS Waters won’t be able to refinance the second-lien
portion during the first year, then can do so at 104 cents on
the dollar in the second year, 103 cents on the dollar in the
third year, 102 cents on the dollar in the fourth year and 101
cents on the dollar in the fifth year.  Both the first- and second-lien portions will be sold at 98
cents on the dollar, the person said, reducing proceeds for the
company and boosting yield to investors.  The company is also seeking a $70 million asset-based
revolving line of credit, the person said.  Credit Suisse Group AG is arranging the financing and
lenders must submit commitments by Feb. 15.  In March 2007, DS Waters obtained a $300 million term loan
that pays 4 percentage points more than Libor, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Dillon Schickli, chief executive officer of DS Waters,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  First-lien debt is repaid first in a bankruptcy or
liquidation, second -lien debt is repaid next. In a revolving
credit facility, money can be borrowed again once it’s repaid;
in a term loan, it can’t.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in New York at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  