-- Clint Eastwood’s Ad Makes Democrats’ Day: Amity Shlaes
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-02-09T00:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/eastwood-s-fictional-ad-makes-democrats-day-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html
Clint Eastwood  has been busy fending
off critics who posit that the Super Bowl commercial he made for
Chrysler represents election-year propaganda for President
 Barack Obama .  The long clip, “Halftime in America,” features the
Hollywood star walking around the automobile factory floor and
talking about how recoveries like Chrysler’s are a model for the
rest of the country. Eastwood later shot back on  Fox News  that
he was “not politically affiliated with Mr. Obama” and that
the commercial was “about job growth.”  The trouble with Eastwood’s commercial is not that it looks
like one for the  Democratic Party . Both parties have bailed out
automakers.  In fact, if you squint at them right, Eastwood’s themes in
the ad are also Reaganite:  the “halftime” theme evokes the
1984 commercial, “Morning in America.”  The trouble isn’t even
that this commercial makes Eastwood look hypocritical, though it
does. As recently as this winter, Eastwood was telling the Los
Angeles Times that “we shouldn’t be bailing out the banks and
car companies.”  Rather, the  Super Bowl  ad infuriates because Eastwood, like
so many others before him, gets the story backward. What’s wrong
with the auto industry isn’t that it failed to create jobs.
What’s wrong is that it emphasizes jobs over general growth
itself.  Jobs Follow Growth  There’s a reason they call employment a “lagging
indicator.”  Jobs (USCUDETR)  follow growth, but, alas, growth doesn’t
always follow jobs. When general growth doesn’t yield jobs in a
certain sector, it suggests the sector may not ever produce
jobs. Postponing shop closings means prolonging pain for both
employer and employee.  Nothing makes this as clear as the sorry record of the
industry that is the topic of this commercial. Back in the early
years, in the teens and 1920s, automakers had a goal: profit. To
gain profit, they focused on productivity, the famous assembly
line. Yet even with selfish profit-oriented bosses, and even
without unions, workers benefited. In fact, in the teens and
1920s, hours worked fell even as pay rose. A workday called
Saturday became a day off.  The job growth that Eastwood so longs for now materialized
then.  Henry Ford  singlehandedly caused a recession in 1927 when
he idled his plants to build the Model A, the Model T’s
successor. Unemployment rose. But the country pulled out of the
slump when the Model A’s became available, not when Ford created
jobs programs. An innovation, a car with an electric starter,
found new customers. Supply created its own demand. Then came
jobs, for a year or two.  Another period of automaking was the 1950s and 1960s, when
Eastwood appeared in the series ”Rawhide,” and Westerns like
“For a Few Dollars More” and a “A Fistful of Dollars.” There
were jobs in that period. But the jobs were there, just as the
titles of the movies suggest, because of dollars, growth and
profits. In 1959, the year “Rawhide” had its TV debut, real
growth in the auto industry was more than 7 percent, according
to Series CA9 of the Millennial Edition of Historical Statistics
of the  United States . In 1966, the year of “The Good, the Bad
and the Ugly,” it was 6.6 percent, real.  Scholars debate the reasons for the growth. One was a lack
of competition. In the 1950s,  Germany ,  Italy ,  France  and the
U.K. -- the most likely competitors -- were still recovering
from World War II. For U.S. automakers, this period was the
equivalent of a one-team Super Bowl. The lack of competition
permitted an emphasis on unions and jobs. Without competition,
companies could afford high wages.  Iacocca’s Bad Example  More recently, though, the emphasis on jobs became
expensive. The famous Chrysler bailout of the 1970s created a
hero lionized almost as much as Clint is today: Lee Iacocca.  As
Chrysler’s chief executive, Iacocca put jobs front and center.
“I’m playing with live bullets, with people’s jobs and their
lives,” he told reporter Judith Miller in early 1980, after
Congress adopted and  Jimmy Carter  signed legislation providing
more than a billion dollars in loans to the company.  The jobs that Iacocca and other automobile executives
protected were supposed to save the company and the industry.
They didn’t. Supporting a troubled company like Chrysler merely
postponed a crisis. It turned out that the  auto industry 
generally couldn’t keep jobs even in prosperity. From 2000 to
2008, the year Eastwood produced and directed “Gran Torino,”
an epic movie about the decline of Motor City, auto
manufacturing employment nationally  dropped by a third ,
according to a report by the  Congressional Research Service .  More evidence: There are states where policy emphasizes
jobs less and profit more. Those are the so-called right-to-work
states, whose number just increased to 23 from 22. Decade in,
decade out, growth in real manufacturing gross domestic product
is stronger in these states than in those without right-to-work
laws; so is growth in nonfarm employment.  It’s easy to understand why Chrysler and Eastwood, not to
mention schoolteachers and screenwriters, opted to perpetuate
the old “jobs above all” myth. It’s the dominant storyline, so
powerful that it obscures reality. But does it have to be?  Even as the Super Bowl commercials were being readied,
lawmakers in  Indiana  acted on the evidence and passed a right-
to-work law. Indiana has plenty of union members, and it hurts
to shut out union friends. The governor,  Mitch Daniels , came
under ferocious attack for backing this bill. The move took as
much guts as any stunt in a Western. Yet Daniels, a
gubernatorial Eastwood, signed the legislation. In other words,
he stared the unions down.  Go ahead, make my day.  Indiana needs the growth. Now there’s a storyline for a
Super Bowl commercial.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net  