-- ECB Keeps 1% Rate; Focus Turns to Greece
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-02-09T13:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/ecb-keeps-rate-at-1-as-focus-turns-to-role-in-greek-debt-swap.html
The  European Central Bank  kept
interest rates on hold and altered its assessment of risks to
the economic outlook as investors focus on the bank’s possible
role in helping Greece avoid default.  “The economic outlook remains subject to high uncertainty
and downside risks,” ECB President  Mario Draghi  said at a press
conference in  Frankfurt  today after policy makers left the
 benchmark interest rate  at a record low of 1 percent, as
predicted by 55 of 57 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey .
Last month, he said the outlook was subject to “substantial”
downside risks.  Draghi will be questioned on whether the ECB intends to use
its Greek bonds to help the embattled nation reduce its debt.
While the ECB has remained silent on its plans, options
canvassed range from selling its Greek bonds at the discount
price it paid for them to taking a loss on the Greek assets held
in investment portfolios, two euro-area officials said late last
week on condition of anonymity.  “Markets would prefer that the ECB communicated clearly
whether its Greek bond holdings will participate in the debt
exchange,” said Jens Sondergaard, senior European economist at
Nomura International Plc in London. “We expect Draghi to be
asked on the ECB’s view, but we do not think he will be willing
to provide any details.”  Greek Bailout  At stake is whether  Greece  can complete a private sector
deal to reduce its debt by as much as 100 billion euros ($133
billion) and secure a second bailout package that will allow it
to pay its bills -- key steps toward ending the debt crisis.  The Greek government has reached agreement with political
parties on austerity measures required for the 130 billion-euro
bailout package and an announcement from Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos ’s office is expected shortly, a government official
said.  Draghi has been instrumental in easing the turmoil in his
first 100 days in office, offering banks unlimited three-year
loans and reversing the two rate hikes implemented by his
predecessor,  Jean-Claude Trichet .  Bank of England  The  Bank of England  today expanded its asset-purchase
program by 50 billion pounds ($80 billion) to 325 billion pounds
and left its key rate at a record-low 0.5 percent.  Greece remains center stage in Europe more than two years
after it triggered the debt crisis with its ballooning debt.  Premier Lucas Papademos is struggling to unite political
parties on the austerity measures needed to secure a second
bailout from euro-area governments, while a deal to write off 70
percent of the value of bonds held by private investors remains
to be finalized. Greece’s private creditors plan to meet in
Paris today.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said this
morning there are still “issues outstanding” that must be
resolved by the time euro-region finance ministers convene later
today. That meeting is scheduled for 6 p.m. in Brussels,
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said late
yesterday, without specifying an agenda. Euro-area politicians
must sign off on any Greek aid accord reached by negotiators.  Bond Purchases  The ECB has purchased 219 billion euros of debt-strapped
nations’ bonds since May 2010. Between 36 billion euros and 55
billion euros are invested in Greek sovereign debt, according to
estimates by  Barclays Capital  and UBS AG.  The ECB is considering selling those bonds to the European
Financial Stability Facility at the knock-down price it paid for
them, forgoing any profit, two euro-area officials said late
last week. The EFSF could then pass that saving on to Greece or
even take a loss on the bonds, helping to alleviate the nation’s
debt load without compromising the ECB’s independence. There are
still hurdles to that option, the officials said.  Another course is for euro-area central banks to give up
profits or take losses on Greek bonds in their separate
investment portfolios, which are not part of monetary policy
operations.  So far, Draghi hasn’t signaled any ECB involvement in a
Greek restructuring. Instead, the ECB has focused on warding off
a looming credit crunch and encouraging lenders to re-enter
sovereign debt markets.  On Dec. 21, it allotted a record 489 billion euros in
three-year loans to banks, the first of two such operations. In
the run-up to the second offering on Feb. 28, the central bank
is finalizing a further broadening of the pool of collateral
banks can use to obtain the cash.  “The ECB is doing more,” said Marchel Alexandrovich,
senior European economist at Jefferies International Ltd. in
 London . “Six months ago we basically had the ECB fighting
behind the scenes with the politicians, there was a lot of
uncertainty. Now, while Greece is still an issue, they seem to
be moving roughly in the same direction.”  Fiscal Accord  European leaders have taken up Draghi’s idea of a “fiscal
compact,” agreeing to a treaty that will speed sanctions on
high-deficit states and require euro countries to anchor
balanced-budget rules in national law.  There are signs that Draghi’s strategy is paying off.
Bloomberg indexes of Europe’s banks and financial conditions are
the highest since August, and money-market lending rates and
bond yields from  Italy  to  Spain  are sliding.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA is selling senior,
unsecured bonds in the first benchmark offering of the debt from
a Spanish bank since October. Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, Italy’s
second-biggest bank, sold senior, unsecured bonds last month,
and Commerzbank AG, Credit Agricole SA and Allianz SE are also
planning to issue unsecured debt.  Intesa Chief Executive Officer Enrico Tommaso Cucchiani
said this week that some of the money from the ECB’s three-year
tender will be used to buy Italian  government bonds .  “If the euro crisis is kept under control, the chances of
economic growth returning in the third quarter for the euro zone
as a whole are good,” said  Christian Schulz , an economist at
Berenberg Bank in London.  It remains unclear exactly how big  Europe ’s permanent
financial backstop will be, leaving the ECB exposed in the event
of a Greek default, said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research at
 ABN Amro  in Amsterdam.  “The lack of a firewall is what ultimately creates
pressure for extra responsibility for the ECB,” Kounis said.
“If the talks in  Athens  fail, then they may have to deal with a
re-escalation of the whole crisis spiral that we saw last
year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  