-- Hedge Fund Loss at Merchant Snaps Seven Gains in ‘Ugly Year’: Commodities
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2012-02-09T18:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/hedge-fund-loss-at-merchant-snaps-seven-gains-in-ugly-year-commodities.html
Michael Coleman  is suspending a
three-decade trading career to focus on risk after a year in
which the Merchant Commodity Fund he co-founded lost 30 percent
and its assets contracted twice as much.  Assets fell to about $550 million last month, from $1.56
billion at the end of 2010, said Singapore-based Coleman, who
gave up trading to become chief risk officer. The biggest losing
bet was in sugar before a 10-month decline ended with winning
wagers in oil, fuels, sugar and soybeans, he said. The assets of
the hedge fund, started in June 2004 with $10 million, are now
traded mostly by co-founder  Doug King .  Merchant’s 2011 slump, which still left its initial
investors with a return of 236 percent, illustrates last year’s
swings in raw materials. While the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index
of 24 commodities gained 2.1 percent for all of last year, it
rose as much as 21 percent, before falling 25 percent and then
rallying 13 percent. The average fund tracked by the Newedge
Commodity Trading  Index (NEIXCTI)  lost 4.2 percent last year, beating
Merchant for only the second time in seven years.  “The problem was that we were wrong,” said Coleman, the
51-year-old son of a plumber from Lancashire in northwest
 England  who graduated from Oxford University in 1982. “The
cause of our loss came from a few changes in supply and demand,
nothing dramatic. Normally we have seven wins to three losses.
Last year, we were down to four wins to six losses.”  Palm-Oil Yields  The fund, whose worst performance before 2011 was a 5
percent gain in its first seven months of trading, was wrong
twice on sugar last year, Coleman said. They were bullish at
end-2010 before prices dropped in February and March and they
became bearish before the commodity rallied in June and July, he
said. A wager on rising vegetable-oil prices also soured as
yields in  Malaysia , the second-biggest producer of  palm oil 
after  Indonesia , unexpectedly strengthened.  Traders for oil, coal and freight have been added and the
fund is increasing its “core investments there,” said London-
based King. Still, “we remain totally opportunity-driven and if
the opportunity is in agriculture we will still weight our
investments in that sector,” he said. The  agricultural  markets
are “un-crowded and friendless” after three to four years of
leaving investors “constantly disappointed,” he said. Merchant
is bullish on soybeans and vegetable oils.  Monthly losses peaked at more than 10 percent in June and
no gains were made until November, according to a fund document.
Leverage, the notional value of all long and short positions
divided by assets, fell as low as 0.4 by September, from 3.6 in
April. The ratio rose as high as 8.6 in 2005. Merchant lost a
further 4.2 percent last month.  Price Swings  “It was an ugly, ugly year,” said 45-year-old King, who
relocated to London and got married in October after 14 years in
 Switzerland . “Our  volatility  has been heightened over the past
three or four years and our goal is to cut that volatility.”  The price swings also hurt other traders. Cargill Inc., the
largest closely held U.S. company, posted an 88 percent drop in
profit in the three months through November and said sugar was
one of the causes. Noble Group Ltd., a Hong Kong-based commodity
supplier part-owned by  China ’s sovereign wealth fund, reported
its first quarterly loss in about 14 years in November.  Both Coleman and King were employees of Minneapolis-based
Cargill, the former as the global head of rubber trading who
joined the company after graduation, and the latter as the
leader of the petroleum-trading team.  Commodity Assets  “I’m very confident the managers will be able to turn it
around,” said Stephane Pizzo, a  fund manager  and founder of
Singapore-based Lotus Peak Capital Pte, who has put money into
Merchant since 2006. “The fund performance was still within
what one could expect based on Merchant’s 20 percent annual
volatility target.”  Gains peaked at 47 percent in 2006, with 37 percent
advances in 2005 and 2007.  Assets (AISMERC)  under management reached a
record $2.54 billion in February 2008.  Global commodity investments climbed $19 billion to $399
billion last year, according to  Barclays Capital , which measures
money in exchange-traded products, index swaps and medium-term
notes. Inflows fell to $15 billion from $67 billion in 2010, the
weakest since 2002, the bank estimates.  “Markets are a game; it’s a human construct with human
rules,” said Coleman, a former rugby player and a director of
St. Helens Rugby Football Club in Lancashire. Commodity traders
are often sports players because “you can handle stress, you
have experience in adversity because if you play sports, you
have had both defeat and victory.”  Closing Office  After the management changes, Coleman oversees the size of
trades and  asset allocation , describing his role as “defense”
and King as “offence.” He gave up trading his own portfolio as
of Jan. 1 and King remains chief investment officer.  King will continue to trade most of the assets, with the
balance handled by other employees. They include Chan Bhima,
formerly of JPMorgan Chase & Co., who trades coal and freight.
King’s move means the fund is closing its Zug office and
transferring three people to  London , he said.  Merchant still sees opportunities in agriculture. Drought
in  South America  is damaging oilseed production and reducing
stockpiles, King said. Soybeans may trade as high as $15 a
bushel this year, from $12.32 now, and  soybean oil  may climb
to 60 cents a pound from 52.81 cents, he said.  Brent, the benchmark for more than half of the world’s
crude, may trade from $100 to $120 a barrel, King said. The
commodity traded at $118.29 today. Energy accounted for 53
percent of the fund’s investments last year.  Merchant is more likely to focus on relative-value trades
this year than outright bets on the price of a single commodity,
Coleman said.  Gasoline (XBM2HOM2)  could move to a “reasonable premium to
heating oil in the summer” from a discount now, said King.  “If you have been in a business for a long time, you have
a mechanism of living through what is unpleasant,” Coleman
said. “If you get beat 5-0 last week, you’re not so keen to
play next week. That’s why it’s important to stop compounding
negative as soon as possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  