-- Legrand Says It Can Ride Out Potential Chinese Building Slowdown
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-02-09T12:25:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/legrand-says-it-can-ride-out-potential-chinese-building-slowdown.html
Legrand SA (LR) , the world’s largest maker
of wiring devices, said it can ride out a potential slowdown in
China’s construction market and plans to remain independent as
the low-voltage equipment industry consolidates.  “The quality of the positions that Legrand holds in China
would not be affected by ups and downs in the economy,” Chief
Executive Officer Gilles Schnepp said in an interview in Paris
today. “The Chinese market as well as most new economies is due
for long-term fast growth.”  The company, based in Limoges in central  France , today
reported 2011 earnings that missed analyst  estimates  and said
its operating margin may fall in 2012 as like-for-like sales
will probably stagnate because of the “uncertain” economic
outlook. Revenue climbed 9.2 percent to 4.25 billion euros ($5.6
billion) in 2011, led by “new economies” including  China ,
India and  Chile , which accounted for 35 percent of the total.  Legrand, which makes switches, plugs and lighting controls,
will continue to make small and medium-sized acquisitions in
coming months as part of a plan to grow by 10 percent per year
on average through 2015, the CEO said. Legrand may spend about
400 million euros ($531 million) on acquisitions each year
through 2015 without affecting its financial strength, he said.  Larger transactions are “unlikely,” Schnepp said when
asked whether he would consider a transaction of 1 billion euros
or more in the next two years.  In 2011, Legrand spent almost 350 million euros to buy five
companies in the U.S.,  Brazil , France and  Malaysia , Chief
Financial Officer Antoine Burel said during a press conference
today. The acquired businesses make products such as inverters
and video enclosure systems that will add more than 200 million
euros to Legrand’s revenue.  ABB Expands  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s largest maker of power-distribution
equipment, based in Zurich, agreed to buy Thomas & Betts Corp.
for $3.9 billion last month to expand its North American
distribution network and boost sales of low-voltage gear.  “Legrand as a stand-alone company has a model of
development that is very convincing,” Schnepp said, when asked
whether it’s been recently approached by potential suitors.  Legrand was bought by private equity firms  Wendel (MF)  of Paris
and U.S.-based Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. in 2002, after its
merger with French competitor  Schneider Electric SA (SU)  was blocked
by European Union regulators. Wendel and KKR & Co. have
progressively reduced their stakes, and each held about 5.8
percent of Legrand in November.  Legrand’s  shares fell  as much as 4.8 percent in Paris
today, the biggest drop in three months, and were down
3.6 percent at 1:17 p.m., giving the company a market value
of 6.7 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 