-- Egypt Triggers Deepest Rift With U.S. in Decades After Charging Activists
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-02-09T01:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/egypt-triggers-worst-u-s-rift-in-decades-by-charging-americans.html
The Egyptian government’s decision to
press criminal charges against American pro-democracy workers is
creating the deepest rift between the two nations in almost four
decades and underscoring the shrinking U.S. influence in a
rapidly changing Middle East.  “This would probably be the most serious set of tensions
between the U.S. and  Egypt  since the 1970s,” following the 1973
Yom Kippur War, said former Mideast peace negotiator Aaron  David Miller  of the Wilson Center, a Washington policy group.  The conflict is putting in jeopardy $1.3 billion in U.S.
military aid to Egypt, while the U.S. may lose influence with
the most populous Arab nation, which views the U.S. assistance
as linked to the 1978 Camp David Accords with Israel.  Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , the top Republican on the
Senate Armed Services Committee, told reporters Feb. 7 that he
will raise the aid issue when a Senate delegation visits Egypt
as early as next week. At a Cairo press conference yesterday,
Prime Minister, Kamal El-Ganzouri, said that threats to cut aid
won’t change Egypt’s position.  Egyptian legal authorities yesterday handed down more than
100 pages of criminal charges against 43 workers at non-
governmental organizations, including those they said were 19
Americans.  Judge Ashraf el-Ashmawy, who is overseeing the cases, said
that authorities are seeking the arrest of 14 “fugitives” who
failed to show up for questioning. If convicted, the defendants
could receive jail sentences of up to five years and fines, the
judge said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Embassy ‘Guests’  State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said 16
Americans are being charged, about half of whom are no longer in
Egypt. There has been no explanation for the discrepancy between
the American and Egyptian numbers. An unspecified number of the
Americans still in Egypt, barred from leaving, have taken refuge
at the U.S. embassy compound as “guests” of Ambassador Anne Patterson, Nuland told reporters in Washington yesterday.  The Americans being charged include staff from the National
Democratic Institute and the International Republican Institute,
democracy-advocacy groups allied with the Republican and
Democratic parties. Sam LaHood, the son of Transportation
Secretary Ray LaHood, heads IRI’s Cairo office.  Attempts to resolve the dispute are “not getting
traction,” Nuland said. “There is something more going on here
than purely a judicial process,” she said.  General to Visit  The Egyptians have moved ahead with the crackdown on
domestic and foreign non-governmental organizations despite
pressure from top U.S. officials, including President  Barack Obama , Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Defense Secretary
Leon Panetta.  U.S. General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, plans to press the issue later this week during a
previously scheduled visit to Egypt, a U.S. military official
said.  “American influence counts much less in the region than
ever and if the Egyptians go ahead and put these people on
trial, including the son of a Cabinet official, it signals
that,” Miller, a Mideast peace negotiator in President  Bill Clinton ’s administration, said in an interview.  The U.S. is “neither feared, nor respected, nor admired as
much as we used to be” in a critical part of the world, he
said.  In order for Congress to release aid to Egypt this year,
Secretary of State Clinton has to confirm that Egypt’s interim
military rulers are making a successful transition to democracy.
That aid has been linked to Egypt’s agreement, in the Camp David
Accords, to establish peace with  Israel  and to a July 2007
pledge by President  George W. Bush ’s administration provide $1.3
billion in military aid annually for ten years.  ‘Endangers Assistance’  The prosecution of the pro-democracy workers is “the
antithesis of movement toward democracy,” and “endangers
assistance,” California Representative Howard Berman, the top
Democrat on the U.S. House Foreign Affairs Committee, said in an
interview yesterday.  Republican Representative Dan Burton of  Indiana , a senior
member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, said the administration
should work with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to
determine whether cutting off aid to Egypt would be detrimental
to Israel-Egypt peace.  “I think that our foreign aid ought to be determined by
what’s in the best interest of the  United States  and our ally
Israel,” Burton said in an interview yesterday.  The problem, said Miller of the Wilson Center, is that
Egypt’s leaders don’t seem that worried about the aid. “They’re
prepared to do without, they’re prepared to call our bluff,” he
said. “They believe, rightly or wrongly, that the U.S.-Egyptian
relationship means more to us than to them.”  No Gift  Jeffrey Martini, a project associate at the Rand
Corporation, a policy group in  Virginia , agrees that Egyptians
believe they have leverage.  An Egyptian document titled “Request for Military
Assistance” in fiscal year 2010 lists ways the U.S. gains from
the relationship. Those benefits include thousands of over-
flights for missions in Afghanistan and  Iraq ; support during
operations in the region, including the 1990-1991 Gulf War, and
expedited U.S. Navy transit through the  Suez Canal .  “The Egyptians don’t see that assistance as a gift,”
Martini, who recently returned from Egypt, said in an interview.
“They say the U.S. gains a lot and in recent years, the U.S.
has gained a lot.”  That said, Martini added that he thinks the Egyptians
“have miscalculated. I think they didn’t expect as much
pushback from Congress.”  Military Rulers  Marina Ottaway, a senior associate in the Middle East
program at the Carnegie Endowment, a  Washington  policy group,
said the charges clearly have the backing of the military body
that is ruling the country until the newly election government
takes over.  “Whether they were part of the original decision, there is
no doubt the SCAF backed the decision in the end,” Ottaway said
in an interview, using the acronym for the military’s interim
ruling body.  She noted that Egypt is still largely in the hands of
former president  Hosni Mubarak ’s old regime, which resisted U.S.
funding of democracy groups for years.  The prosecutions may be a populist ploy to distract the
public from Egypt’s teetering economy. The country is seeking a
$3.2 billion loan from the  International Monetary Fund  and
another $1 billion from the  World Bank .  “This is a provoked crisis,” David Schenker, director of
the Arab Politics program at the Washington Institute, a policy
group that focuses on the  Middle East , said in an interview.
“In post-Mubarak Egypt, populist politics and anti-Americanism
play well,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  