-- HeidelbergCement Profit, Sales Rise on Cost Cuts, Weather
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-02-09T06:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/heidelbergcement-profit-sales-rise-on-cost-cuts-weather-1-.html
HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , the world’s
third-largest maker of cement, said fourth-quarter profit and
sales rose as the company reduced spending and mild weather
extended the construction season in some of its main markets.  Operating profit rose 6.9 percent to 410 million euros
($545 million), the Heidelberg, Germany-based company said in a
statement today. Earnings beat the average estimate of 388.8
million euros in a Bloomberg  survey . Sales jumped 14 percent to
3.28 billion euros, the seventh consecutive quarterly increase
and topping an estimate for 3.05 billion euros.  HeidelbergCement cut costs and boosted production in
faster-growing emerging countries to help offset slower demand
in regions including  North America  and an increase in energy
costs. A savings plan generated more than 100 million euros in
reductions last year, more than planned, the company said.  “We are pleased that we achieved our goal of increasing
revenue and operating income in 2011 despite the significant
surge in energy costs earlier this year,” Chief Executive
Officer  Bernd Scheifele  said in the statement. Full-year sales
rose 11 percent, with operating profit advancing 3.2 percent.  Earnings were helped by a gain of less than 10 million
euros from the sale of excess carbon dioxide  emission allowances 
in 2011, the company said. HeidelbergCement cut more than 1,200
jobs in North America, the U.K. and some eastern European
countries.  Sales volume for cement rose 15 percent in the quarter,
while the volume of aggregates rose 7.7 percent and volume of
ready-mix concrete rose 12 percent. Revenue growth at 19 percent
was highest in the Asia-Pacific region, with 18 percent for the
eastern Europe-central Asia region.  Dyckerhoff AG (DYK3) , the German cement maker owned by  Italy ’s
 Buzzi Unicem SpA (BZU) , predicted stable sales and profit for this
year on Feb. 6.  Lafarge SA (LG) , the world’s largest cement maker, is scheduled
to release its fourth-quarter report on Feb. 17, with  Holcim
Ltd. (HOLN) , the industry’s number two, following on Feb. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  