-- Eisai Cancer Drug Reverses Alzheimer’s Symptoms in Mice, Researchers Say
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-02-09T23:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/eisai-skin-cancer-drug-eases-alzheimer-s-symptoms-in-mice-researchers-say.html
A skin cancer drug sold by  Eisai Co. (4523) 
reversed signs and symptoms of  Alzheimer’s disease  in mice, a
study found, setting the stage for tests to see if the treatment
can do the same in humans.  The drug, Targretin, eased plaque buildup in the brains
of mice with Alzheimer’s disease and improved their memory,
according to the study published in the journal  Science . The
results were particularly promising because the drug worked
quickly, as soluble amyloid fell by 25 percent and its buildup
in the brain was halved in three days, the researchers said.  The reductions in amyloid, a hallmark of  Alzheimer’s
disease  in humans, were accompanied by improvements in mental
function, memory and smell, the researchers said. The most
effective existing treatment for mice with the disease takes
several months to reverse the plaque buildup in the brain, said
Paige Cramer, a Ph.D candidate who led the research at Case
Western Reserve School of Medicine in  Cleveland , in a statement.  “The results of this study, showing the preservation of
behaviors across a wide spectrum and accompanying brain
function, are tremendously exciting and suggest great promise in
the utility of this approach in treatment of Alzheimer’s
disease,” said  Daniel Wesson , an assistant professor of
neurosciences at Case Western Reserve School of Medicine, in a
statement.  While the results are exciting, they only stem from mouse
models of the disease, said  Gary Landreth , professor of
neurosciences and the senior author of the paper. The
researchers want to see if the medicine has similar benefits in
humans next, though they are at an early stage in their
planning, he said.  Protein Effect  The medicine, known chemically as bexarotene, is thought
to work by stimulating the production of a protein that helps
remove amyloid beta from the body, the researchers said. Eisai,
based in  Tokyo , and New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s
biggest drugmaker, sell Aricept, which was the most widely
prescribed Alzheimer’s disease drug until cheaper generic copies
of the medicine became available in the U.S. in 2010.  About 5.1 million Americans  suffer  from Alzheimer’s
disease, the leading cause of dementia in the elderly, a number
expected to double by 2050, according to the  U.S. Department of
Health  and Human Services. Scientists have been unable to
pinpoint the cause of the condition and there is no cure.  The Obama administration earlier this week said it would
boost funding for Alzheimer’s research by $50 million to $500
million this year to investigate the genetic underpinnings of
the disease and test drugs that may arrest its development.  The Case Western research released yesterday was funded by
the Blanchette Hooker Rockefeller Foundation, the Thome
Foundation and the U.S.  National Institutes of Health .  Eisai acquired the rights to Targretin when it purchased
Ligand Pharmaceuticals Inc. for $205 million in 2006. The drug
treats patients with skin lesions caused by persistent or
recurrent cutaneous T-cell lymphoma or AIDS-related Kaposi’s
sarcoma.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  