-- El-Erian: Greece Agreement May Be Questionable
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-02-09T17:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/el-erian-says-greece-agreement-likely-questionable-tom-keene.html
The agreement reached by Greek
political leaders to win the nation’s second bailout may be
“analytically questionable,” Pacific Investment Management
Co.’s Mohamed A. El-Erian said.  “It is very unlikely to lead to growth, jobs, financial
stability and new investments,” El-Erian, chief executive and
co-chief investment officer of the world’s biggest manager of
bond funds, said in a radio interview today on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. “This agreement
will be very difficult to sell when the principals, those who
have agreed, have to go to their constituents.”  Greece ’s government agreed today to austerity measures
needed for a 130 billion-euro ($173 billion) rescue package,
according to an e-mailed statement from Greek Prime Minister
Lucas Papademos’s press office. It completed talks with
officials of the European Commission,  European Central Bank  and
 International Monetary Fund , a group called the troika, and
political leaders agreed, according to the office.  Euro-region finance ministers will hold an emergency
meeting in Brussels to discuss the bailout and a debt swap that
will impose a loss of about 70 percent for investors.
Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group, said
there will be no final decision on Greece’s second bailout
package at the meeting.  Bond Payment  Greece faces a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March 20
and is struggling to secure financing to avert a collapse of the
economy that could spark a new round of contagion in the euro
area. Lenders have demanded officials sign on to measures
ranging from a reduction in the minimum wage and lower pensions,
to immediate job cuts for as many as 15,000 state employees.  “There is no can to be kicked down the road,”  Newport
Beach , California-based El-Erian said. “Every time you try and
wait, the snowball gets bigger, the problems get bigger and the
dynamics become more difficult to control. This is about a
status quo that is very difficult to sustain.”  European banks own most of the 200 billion euros of Greek
debt held by non-government investors.  Hedge funds , pension
funds, sovereign wealth funds and other “non-regulated
investors” own a further 60 billion euros, according to
estimates by Pavan Wadhwa, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s London-based
head of global interest-rate strategy.  ‘Build Firewalls’  Europe  needs to continue to “build firewalls that can
absorb technical contagion,” El-Erian said. “It is inevitable
that If Greece stumbles, you will have technical contagion. The
rest of Europe is on the right course. It is really the
peripherals, in particular Greece and  Portugal , that are yet to
find the path that will restore them to financial stability.”  Markets should also pay attention to events in the  Middle
East , El-Erian said.  “Tunisia and Egypt implode,” El-Erian said. “Other
countries like Syria and Iran explode, meaning they have
regional effects. Markets should keep an eye on Syria and
Iran.”  Iran’s nuclear ambitions, Syria’s bloody crackdown and
Greece’s brush with default have added to the uncertainty in the
global financial markets.  Pimco’s $250 billion Total Return Fund, the world’s largest
bond fund, has returned 7.35 percent in the past year, lagging
behind 51 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It gained 2.13 percent over the past month, beating
97 percent of its competitors.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $1.36 trillion of assets as of Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  