-- El Paso Mayor Fighting Ouster on Gay Rights Vote Counts Rising Legal Bill
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/el-paso-mayor-fighting-ouster-on-gay-rights-vote-counts-rising-legal-bill.html
Mayor John Cook has amassed $250,000
in debt fighting for his job in  El Paso (9122MF) , the sixth-biggest  Texas 
city, after casting a decisive vote to reject a ban on benefits
for same-sex partners of municipal workers. The move sparked
demands for his recall.  Cook, 65, faces a special election after he backed repeal
of a law passed by voters in November 2010 that limits benefits
such as health insurance to city employees, legal spouses and
dependent children. Texas doesn’t permit same-sex marriage.  Opponents led by Pastor Tom Brown of El Paso’s Word of Life
Church petitioned for the recall targeting Cook and the City
Council members who sided with him in overturning the ballot
measure, designed to protect “traditional family values.”
Brown helped lead support for the initiative that created the
law. Its passage prompted a lawsuit by a city police union.  “Pastor Brown was more than happy to throw everyone else
under the bus in his zeal to go after homosexuals,” said Ron
Martin, president of the El Paso Municipal Police Officers
Association. “The pastor figured out of that if you removed
insurance benefits just for same-sex couples it would be
unconstitutional, but if you removed them for everybody who
wasn’t in a traditional marriage, then it was OK.”  Rare Move  Cook is the only big-city mayor in the U.S. to face a
recall because of issues tied to the debate over same-sex
marriage, at least in recent years, said Leslie Graves,
publisher of the  Ballotpedia  website in Madison,  Wisconsin ,
which tracks elections, and Paul Guequierre, a spokesman for the
Washington-based Human Rights Campaign Inc. The nonprofit
organization advocates equal treatment of same-sex partners by
employers.  “Government should not be using tax dollars to endorse a
social agenda,” Brown said Feb. 6 by telephone. The 2010 ballot
measure, which also affected retirees, foster children and other
nonfamily dependents of municipal employees, passed 55 percent
to 45 percent, with about 20,300 voting in favor. In June, Cook
joined four council members to repeal it in a 5-4 vote.  “Once they overturned what the people had decided, that
was a cause for a recall,” said Brown, whose  website  includes
an article entitled “Homosexuality: Its cause and cure.” He
said the council betrayed the will of the people. “The highest
civil right that all of us possess is the right to vote, and our
City Council took away our right to do that.”  Costly Vote  An April 14 recall election may cost as much as $1.3
million, City Clerk Richarda Momsen said. That’s about 38 times
the estimated $34,000 cost of providing benefits to the domestic
partners of 19 unmarried workers who were affected by the law.  No one actually lost their benefits as a result of the
ballot initiative, Momsen said.  Cook, the mayor of the city of more than 649,000 residents
since 2005, is scheduled to leave office in July 2013 because of
 term limits . He said he opposed the ballot measure as unfair.  “El Paso was the first city in the Deep South states to
pass an ordinance prohibiting discrimination based on skin
color,” he said by telephone. “With that history behind us and
being a very tolerant community, it was very discouraging to
have citizens misled in passing an ordinance they didn’t really
understand.”  The dispute may hurt the image of El Paso, where one of its
two  New York  Stock Exchange-listed companies,  Western Refining
Corp. (WNR) , is moving more than half its corporate staff to Tempe,
 Arizona . The city’s economy may benefit from the projected
addition by 2013 of about 21,000 soldiers at  Fort Bliss , which
is the nation’s fastest-growing U.S. Army base, according to
municipal estimates.  Unusual Cause  “The typical reason for a mayoral recall is a tax issue,
like in Omaha or Miami-Dade, or some sense of mayoral failure,”
said Graves, who is also president of the Lucy Burns Institute
in Madison, a nonprofit organization that sponsors Ballotpedia.
Omaha Mayor Jim Suttle survived the January 2011 recall vote.  Almost half of the 151 state and local officials facing
recalls last year were kicked out, including Miami-Dade County
Mayor Carlos Alvarez, who had favored a property tax increase,
said Joshua Spivak, a senior research fellow at the Hugh L.
Carey Institute for Government Reform at Wagner College in New
York. Nine quit before the recall was held, he said.  El Paso, which is closer to  Los Angeles  than the Louisiana
state line, is culturally more similar to cities in  New Mexico 
and Arizona, said Chuck Smith, deputy executive director of the
nonprofit Equality Texas in Austin, the state capital. The
organization opposes discrimination based on sexual orientation.  Uncharacteristic of City  “For this to be happening now is incongruent with the
history of the city,” Smith said. “It’s embarrassing to the
city that it has escalated to this level.”  El Paso gained fame during the 1966  National Collegiate
Athletic Association ’s men’s basketball championship game in
which Texas Western College, now known as the  University of
Texas  at El Paso, upset top-ranked University of  Kentucky  with
an all-black starting lineup, an NCAA first. Kentucky brought an
all-white team to the game, which inspired  “Glory Road,”  a
2006 Walt Disney Co. movie, and a 2000 book, “And the Walls
Came Tumbling Down: The Basketball Game That Changed American
Sports,” by Frank Fitzpatrick.  The conflict over the ballot measure deepened last year as
Cook sued to block the recall because some signatures to support
it were gathered in churches, which he contended was improper.
That prompted a countersuit by Brown. Both are pending.  Church Activism  “This is a blatant matter of abusing the rights of church
officials to be involved in local affairs,” said Joel Oster, a
lawyer in  Kansas  for the Alliance Defense Fund, a Scottsdale,
Arizona-based group that represents religious organizations.
“We are excited about this case because of the precedent that
could be established.”  Brown and allies who don’t share his religious views were
stunned by the repeal of the 2010 ballot measure, said Ignacio
Padilla, a former council member and recall organizer.  “We resented highly the fact that the mayor and four City
Council people thought they knew better than what the people had
voted for,” said Padilla, 68, a substitute teacher and Catholic
who said he rarely attends church. “They are there to serve
themselves rather than the community they represent.”  Cook, who had expected legal bills to reach about $30,000,
already faces more than eight times that amount and the fight
isn’t over. He said he has paid $2,500, offset by less than $500
in contributions. Assistance from groups tied to police unions
and gay-rights activists hasn’t shown up, he added.  “Even if I get recalled, I’ll walk out with my head held
high because I stood up for what I felt was right,” Cook said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 