-- Melco Crown Profit Rises Sixfold on City of Dreams
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-02-10T06:56:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/melco-crown-net-income-rises-560-percent-in-fourth-quarter.html
Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , a
venture between Australian billionaire James Packer and a son of
gambling tycoon  Stanley Ho , said profit increased more than
sixfold as revenue jumped at its City of Dreams casino. The
stock rose in Hong Kong trading.  Fourth-quarter net income rose to $107.5 million, or 20
cents an American depositary receipt, from $16.3 million, or 3
cents, a year earlier, the Hong Kong-based company said in a
statement yesterday. That beat the $47.8 million average of
three analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Melco Crown joins  Sands China Ltd. (1928) , a unit of billionaire
Sheldon Adelson’s Las Vegas company, in reporting higher
quarterly earnings fueled by arrivals from mainland China to
Macau. The number of visitors to Macau, the world’s largest
casino center, rose 12 percent to 28 million last year, with 53
percent from the mainland, according to government data.  “The results were stronger than we expected and the
increase in traffic has resulted in a much bigger turnover,”
said Lantis Li, an analyst at Capital Securities.  Fourth-quarter  revenue  rose 30 percent to $1.01 billion,
Melco Crown said. Revenue at its City of Dreams casino rose 42
percent. Melco Crown rose as much as 2.8 percent to HK$31.50, in
 Hong Kong , heading for a record high. The benchmark Hang Seng
Index dipped 1.1 percent as of 2:46 p.m. local time.  New Project  The company aims to submit a plan as soon as this quarter
to get regulatory approval for a resort, the Studio City, on the
Cotai Strip in Macau , Chief Executive Officer Lawrence Ho said
in a conference call after the earnings.  The planned resort is expected to have a gross floor area
of 465,000 square meters, according to the company’s website.  Melco will look at debt financing for the project and
doesn’t see the need to issue shares for funding, Ho said on the
conference call. Melco Crown faces competition from Sands  China ,
which plans to start a new casino, Sands Cotai Central, in
April.  “Studio City is a distant project and we’d like to see
more clarity, but I’m not too concerned about market share
erosion,” Li of Capital Securities said.  Funding Options  The casino operator hired seven banks to arrange a loan of
about $1.25 billion to fund its Studio City resort project in
Macau, people familiar with the matter have said. Total debt on
Dec. 31 was $2.3 billion, up from $1.5 billion a year ago.  Melco Crown, whose ADRs trade on the Nasdaq Stock Market,
listed in Hong Kong on Dec. 7 without raising fresh capital. The
second listing provides financial flexibility for the company,
which is open-minded about selling new shares to raise funds as
it expands in  Asia , Ho said that day.  The company’s ADRs, each representing three shares, fell
0.8 percent to $11.82 at the close of New York trading on Feb.
9. The ADRs have advanced 23 percent this year, whereas the Hong
Kong stock soared 28 percent so far.  Casino Hub  Macau is the only place in China where casinos are legal.
Casino gambling revenue in the city jumped 42 percent last year
to 268 billion patacas ($34 billion), government data show.  Ho said in the call that the company hasn’t seen a
significant slowdown in Macau. Co-Chief Operating Officer Ted
Chan called a fourth-quarter drop in volume “transitional.”  Ho and Packer’s  Crown Ltd. (CWN)  opened Melco’s second Macau
casino, City of Dreams, on the Cotai Strip in mid-2009.  Melco Crown is one of six licensed casino operators in the
Chinese special administrative region. It competes with  Las
Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) ’s Sands China Ltd.,  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) ’s Wynn
Macau Ltd.,  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) , Stanley Ho’s  SJM
Holdings Ltd. (880) , and  MGM Resorts International (MGM) ’s  MGM China
Holdings Ltd (2282) ., a joint venture with  Pansy Ho , daughter of
Stanley Ho.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  