-- Electrical Deep-Brain Stimulation Enhances Memory in Small Study
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-02-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/electrical-deep-brain-stimulation-enhances-memory-in-small-study.html
An electrical current sent deep into
the brain improves memory, according to a study that suggests a
novel approach to treating  Alzheimer’s disease  and dementia.  Seven volunteers with epilepsy who had electrodes implanted
in their brains to detect the source of their seizures
participated in the research to see if deep-brain stimulation
improved their recall. The results published in the  New England
Journal of Medicine  showed that information they learned while
the stimulation occurred was easier to remember and use.  The volunteers had varying memory strength at the start of
the study and all improved with the deep-brain stimulation, said
 Itzhak Fried , the lead researcher and professor of neurosurgery
at the University of  California ,  Los Angeles . The findings
suggest a novel approach to improving memory and mental function
in people with Alzheimer’s disease, dementia and trouble
remembering as they age, he said in a telephone interview.  “Alzheimer’s disease is the big target here because it’s
such a huge problem with people getting older,” said Matt
Stead, a neurologist at the  Mayo Clinic  in Rochester,  Minnesota ,
who wasn’t involved in the study. “This is probably one of the
most hopeful things I’ve seen regarding Alzheimer’s disease in a
long time, because none of the medicines seem to do much.”  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , based in  Minneapolis , sells a deep-brain
stimulation device for Parkinson’s disease and obsessive-
compulsive disorder, and is studying it for depression.  St. Jude
Medical Inc. (STJ) , based in  St. Paul , Minnesota, sells a similar
device in  Europe  and is conducting U.S. studies. Trying the
technique to improve memory is a natural extension, said Andres
Lozano, chairman of  neurosurgery  at the  University of Toronto ,
who wasn’t involved in the research and is doing similar work.  ‘Next Frontier’  “Ninety thousand patients have received deep-brain
stimulation in the world, and about 10,000 patients get it every
year,” Lozano said. “The next frontier is to consider placing
electrodes in areas that control memory and cognitive function
to see if it can help with disturbances in those areas.”  The volunteers in the study released yesterday played a
video game where they acted as a taxi cab driver shuttling
passengers across a virtual city. The electrodes received
electrical stimulation while they learned to get to three
stores, and were turned off for another three.  In a subsequent test, they were able to take shortcuts and
get more quickly to the stores they visited while the
stimulation was active. That showed improved spatial memory, a
key component of everyday living such as finding your car in a
parking lot and remembering where you stashed the keys, Fried
said.  Brain Areas  The location of the electrodes was key, Fried said.
Stimulation of the  hippocampus , a key component of the brain
that converts short-term experience into long-term memory,
didn’t help. The hippocampus is one of the first areas where
destruction from Alzheimer’s disease occurs. However, the
stimulation was beneficial when it occurred at the entorhinal
cortex, which leads to the hippocampus, an area getting
increasing attention from Alzheimer’s disease researchers.  Tiny electrodes, measuring less than 2 millimeters in size,
were placed a little less than 2 inches into the brain. None of
the patients felt the stimulation.  “What we found here was a particular golden gate, a small
area in the entorhinal cortex, where stimulation has a striking
effect on memory,” Fried said. “This is an area of the brain
which is critical in transformation of experience into lasting
memories. Everything you perceive now, everything that’s
committed to conscious memory, has to be funneled through this
system.”  The U.S.  National Institutes of Health  and the Dana
Foundation funded the research. The investigators used
standalone electrodes in the study, rather than deep-brain
stimulation devices from Medtronic or St. Jude.  Probing the Brain  The study shows it’s possible to reach circuits in the
brain involved with processing memory and that electrical
stimulation can enhance their function, Lozano said.  The new findings support his earlier work involving six
Alzheimer’s disease patients who received constant deep-brain
stimulation for a year. Half of the patients progressed more
slowly than expected and one had a lasting benefit. Larger
studies are now being planned. The approach also restored some
of the brain’s ability to use glucose, suggesting it reactivated
areas of the brain that were previously shut down, he said.  “This is the second study that shows you can stimulate
somewhere along the memory circuit of the brain and get a
benefit,” Lozano said in a telephone interview.  Theta Rhythm  The researchers believe the benefit stemmed from resetting
the brain’s theta rhythm, altering the way large groups of cells
involved in memory function work. The two studies stimulated
different areas in the same segment of the brain, which Lozano
compared to a subway car stopping at different stations.  Stead, who typically performs deep-brain stimulation to
treat  Parkinson’s disease , said the results mesh with earlier
studies that show such stimulation can cause new neurons to grow
and function normally. One man treated with brain stimulation
for extreme obesity spontaneously recalled events from decades
earlier, Stead said.  While it can take people about a year to get over the idea
of having electrodes implanted in the brain, they typically
don’t cause problems and the procedure can be done during a one-
day hospital stay, he said.  “In the scope of brain surgery, it’s pretty minimal,” he
said, comparing it to getting a pacemaker for the heart.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  