-- Emerging-Market Stocks to Extend Rally: Citi
-- B y   R i c h a r d   F r o s t   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-02-09T03:41:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/emerging-market-stocks-to-extend-rally-citi.html
The rally in emerging-market stocks
will probably continue as “ample liquidity” and appealing
valuations persist, Citigroup Inc. said.  “We would be buyers of any pullback,” Geoffrey Dennis,
global emerging-market equity strategist at Citigroup, wrote in
a report dated yesterday. He forecast the  MSCI Emerging Markets
Index (MXEF)  will climb to 1,225 this year, about 15 percent above
yesterday’s closing level.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index lost 0.3 percent to
1,057.64 at 11:32 a.m. Singapore time. Companies in the index of
developing-nation companies trade at 10.5 times estimated
earnings, less than the four-year average of 12, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging-market shares posted their best start to a year
since 2001 after European countries agreed to tighter budget
controls and as policy makers from Brazil to the  Philippines  cut
borrowing costs to spur economic growth. The MSCI Emerging
Markets Index climbed 11 percent last month, the biggest January
increase since 2001, following a 20 percent drop in 2011. The
gauge has jumped 15 percent this year, compared with 8.3 percent
increase by the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed stocks.  Global equities advanced yesterday, sending the MSCI All-
Country World Index 20 percent above its closing low on Oct. 4,
surpassing the threshold that some investors define as a bull
market. Emerging-market shares have climbed 27 percent from an
October low.  Brazil ‘Overweight’  The brokerage raised its rating on Brazil to “overweight”
from “strong neutral” on the possibility the central bank will
cut  interest rates  by a further 1 percentage point, according to
the note.  South Africa  was lowered to “neutral,” Dennis wrote,
without giving the previous rating.  Brazil is among the “world’s most exciting markets,”  Mark Mobius , executive chairman of Franklin Templeton Investment’s
Emerging Markets Group, said in a post on Templeton’s website
dated Feb. 7.  “We continue to keep our long-term eye on Brazil,” Mobius
wrote in his website post. The nation is among the most
“economically vibrant” in the Western hemisphere, he wrote.  The  Bovespa Index (IBOV) , Brazil’s benchmark stock gauge, surged
16 percent this year after slumping 18 percent in 2011. The
measure trades at 10.5 times estimated profit, compared with its
four-year average of 11.7. The MSCI BRIC Index, which tracks
Brazil, Russia, India and  China , trades at 9.2 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  