-- Private Equity Enters Banks’ Turf in Europe
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-02-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/lending-void-draws-buyout-hedge-funds-to-banks-turf-in-europe.html
When French medical-testing company
 Biomnis  needed a loan to fund acquisitions last year, it turned
to buyout firm Axa Private Equity, instead of a bank.  The private-equity unit of French insurer  Axa SA (CS)  provided
100 million euros ($132 million) to refinance existing loans in
May, and added 50 million euros for future takeovers. The Paris-
based firm signed two similar deals last year and is looking for
more, said Cecile Mayer-Levi, who led the transaction for Axa
Private Equity.  “Banks weren’t vigilant,” Mayer-Levi said in an
interview. “They didn’t think we would be able to do this.”  As Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis has worsened, banks have
become more reluctant to lend to medium-sized companies. The gap
created is luring hedge fund managers and private-equity firms
like Axa, which can charge customers higher rates for loans that
they might otherwise be unable to get from traditional lenders.  As in the U.S., the growth of so-called shadow banking in
 Europe  is attracting regulators’ attention. Unlike their banks,
the new lenders aren’t subject to traditional  bank regulations 
and may be more aggressive about enforcing their rights in the
event of a default.  “It’s a positive trend because there’s a big need,” David Thesmar, a professor at French business school HEC Paris, said
in an interview. “But we’re up for a cultural revolution.
Unlike the banks, private equity or hedge funds aren’t passive
investors, and if the companies default, they won’t be scared to
take the keys.”  Lending Declines  European banks, which account for about 80 percent of
lending to companies and households, are tightening credit and
seeking to cut more than 950 billion euros in assets in the next
two years to help meet regulators’ demand to boost capital,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Loans to euro-area households and companies contracted 0.7
percent in December, the most on record, the  European Central
Bank  reported on Jan. 27. At the same time, $100 billion of
collateralized loan funds, a primary source of funding of
European leveraged loans, will wind down by 2015, threatening
default on existing debt, Standard and Poor’s said in August.  The hedge funds and private-equity firms are typically
lending in instances where banks chose not to lend, or decline
to make the capital available at terms or in the time frame
wanted by the borrower, executives said.  Firms including New York-based  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) 
and London-based  Intermediate Capital Group Plc (ICP)  and  3i Group Plc 
are among private-equity firms seeking to lend directly to
companies.  Higher Rates  The firms can typically charge companies interest rates of
9 percent to 12 percent for a blend of senior and junior debt,
more than banks, Axa’s Mayer-Levi said. Returns can be boosted
with leverage, said Michael Dennis, managing director of Ares
Capital Europe, part of Los Angeles-based Ares Management LLC.  “The more risky, the more you have to pay, and some
companies may resort to that kind of financing,” said Matthew
Sebag-Montefiore, a partner at  Oliver Wyman  in  London . “For
typical companies that are not under any kind of pressure, they
simply don’t want to pay higher rates. It’s going to remain a
niche business.”  Europe’s multiple jurisdictions and political resistance to
private equity and  hedge funds  may also hinder growth in
lending, the firms say.  “It will be a very big barrier for entry,” Jason Papastavrou, chief executive officer of New York-based  Aris
Capital Management LLC , which invests in direct-lending funds,
said in an interview. “I would like to see how a hedge fund
that operates out of London or  New York  will try to go to court
against a French company seeking collateral when they are
screaming ‘Yankees go home!’”  Regulatory Pressure  Shadow banking, a generic term used to describe all lending
activities not performed by banks, “is one of my top
priorities,” Michel Barnier, the European Union’s financial-
services chief, said in a Bloomberg TV interview last month,
without elaborating.  “The more you raise the costs of banks via regulation, the
more you risk pushing activity into shadow banking,” said Mark Weil, head of Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa at Oliver Wyman
Financial Services in London. “That’s bad news for banks, but
also for regulators and ultimately taxpayers because there’s a
reason why the regulation is there -- to make banking safer.”  In the U.S., most borrowing by medium-sized companies,
defined as those whose values range from $100 million to $1
billion, is from companies other than banks, said Ares Capital’s
Dennis. In Europe, it’s less than 20 percent, he said. There is
little reliable data on the total amount of so-called direct
lending by the funds.  ‘A Very Good Time’  “The share of institutional investors in the European
lending market has been growing in the past few years, and it
has accelerated in the past six to nine months because of the
worsening of the sovereign debt crisis,” Dennis said. “Now is
a very good time to do direct lending in Europe.”  Ares, which manages about $47 billion in assets, started
its European direct-lending operations in 2007. It has loaned
more than $1 billion to 44 European companies and is raising a
new fund for the region, Dennis said. About a fifth of the firms
Dennis backed aren’t the subject of a leveraged buyout.  In Europe, the direct-lending capacity built by private
equity and hedge funds is about 3.5 billion euros, estimated
Jeremy Ghose, head of buyout firm 3i’s debt-management unit.
That is dwarfed by the banks, which had 4.7 trillion euros of
outstanding loans to European companies at the end of 2011,
according to data released last month by the ECB.  New Funds  Lending by the funds will expand as firms redirect some of
their limited partners’ resources toward that strategy, Ghose
said in an interview. 3i is considering starting a 300 million-
euro to 400 million-euro pool dedicated to direct lending in the
next six months, he said.  Apollo Global Management, which is already lending in
Europe, is exploring a dedicated pool to offer senior loans to
medium-sized companies in the region, said Sanjay Patel, head of
the New York-based firm’s international operations.  The lending business could yield 7 percent to 15 percent a
year, more than what traditional corporate or government debt
delivers, he said in an interview. The strategy could appeal to
pension and sovereign funds in search for yields and willing to
commit money for five to 10 years, he said.  “The banks and the world in general are moving toward more
liquidity,” Patel said. “They tend to lend to bigger companies
because it’s viewed as less risky. The vacuum for medium-sized
companies is clear.”  Blackstone, Intermediate  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s largest private-equity
firm, is also growing direct lending in Europe through its GSO
credit unit, a person with knowledge of the operations said.
 Intermediate Capital , which manages funds providing so-called
mezzanine loans, a form of subordinated -- or riskier -- credit
to companies, is considering raising money to provide senior
loans to European companies, said Benoit Durteste, who heads the
firm’s mezzanine lending business in Europe.  “The risk-reward ratio is very attractive,” Durteste said
in an interview.  Some companies have turned to non-bank lenders because of
the more flexible terms they offer.  Unither Pharmaceuticals SA , a French maker of eyedrops that
was acquired by buyout firm  Equistone Partners Europe  in
November, picked Axa Private Equity for a 100 million-euro
financing over a group of banks, partly because its loan doesn’t
require the company to pay down debt before maturity, saving
 cash flow  for expansion, said Guillaume Jacqueau, Equistone’s
managing partner.  ‘More Selective’  “Banks are more cautious and more selective,” he said.  Courtepaille SA, a French restaurant chain acquired by
private-equity firm  Fondations Capital , chose Intermediate last
year for a 160 million-euro debt package because the banks
required the debt to be paid down year after year, when the
company needed to preserve cash flow for the opening of new
restaurants, said Philippe Renauld, a Fondations partner.  “It is a great time for people to be getting into this
business because you have high-quality companies with high-
quality collateral willing to pay high  interest rates ,” said
Aris Capital’s Papastavrou. “My concern is that investors are
idiots. As soon as a few months go by and good returns are
generated, then they forget all the problems and you go to the
next bubble.”  Firms, Investors Clash  In the U.S., where funds have a longer history lending to
businesses, shadow banking hasn’t been without conflict among
the firms, their investors and borrowers. The global credit
freeze triggered by the 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. caused the failure of several lending firms after
clients sought to redeem their investments.  Aris Capital sued a $1 billion direct-lending hedge fund
overseen by Quantek Asset Management LLC and one of its
managers, Javier Guerra, in 2009 after the firm suspended
redemptions because it had made illiquid investments. The fund
had lent money to a developer of low-income housing in  Mexico ,
purchased airplanes to lease and bought a stake in a  copper mine 
in  Chile .  When Papastavrou made the Quantek investment in 2008, he
said he was told his money would be locked up for no more than a
year and then the funds could be redeemed in 90 days or less,
depending on the share class. Four years later, the portfolio is
still being liquidated. After Aris won an arbitration in
September of last year, Quantek told investors Guerra had
resigned from the board and that plans to sell assets would lead
to a “material reduction” to the fund’s net asset value.  ‘Sense of Crisis’  “Aris has needlessly created a sense of crisis in what was
otherwise an orderly wind down,” Guerra said in a statement.
“What this tells hedge-fund managers is that we as an industry
should consider doing more extensive due diligence on our
investors.”  Plainfield Asset Management LLC, which had $5 billion in
assets at its peak, is winding down a hedge fund that made loans
to companies with investors suffering losses of about 80
percent, according to U.S. regulatory filings. Plainfield, based
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , has also been sued by borrowers.  All legal cases against Plainfield have been settled, said
Elliot Sloane, a spokesman for the company.  Michael Patterson , a partner at New York-based hedge fund
Highbridge Capital Management LLC, said investors have learned
that lending to businesses only works when firms follow the
private-equity model of locking up investor cash for years. He
runs a lending fund started in 2009 that raised $1.1 billion
from investors and has additional leverage of $500 million.  “In order for limited partners to agree to invest their
money for a decently long period of time, you’ve got to be
credible and committed,” Patterson said. “You can’t just slide
in and out of the market if you are talking about locking up
people’s capital for four years or five years. That requirement
prevents some of the rush in and rush out behavior.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  