-- Lenovo Profit Rises on Office Computer Demand, Acquisitions
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-02-09T09:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/lenovo-third-quarter-profit-rises-on-office-computer-demand-acquisitions.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the world’s
second-biggest maker of personal computers, posted a 54 percent
increase in third-quarter profit as orders for office computers
jumped and acquisitions in Germany and Japan boosted sales.  Net income  climbed to $153 million in the three months
ended Dec. 31, or 1.46 cents a share, from $99.7 million, or
0.98 cent, a year earlier, Lenovo said in a statement today.
That beat the $139.8 million average of nine analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 44 percent to a record $8.4
billion.  Lenovo sold more computers including Thinkpad laptops to
businesses in the U.S. and emerging markets, defying an industry
slump that hurt sales at rivals  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Acer
Inc. (2353)  Chief Executive Officer Yang Yuanqing is stepping up
development of smartphones and tablets to widen the Chinese
company’s product line for consumers, following  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)   “We remain bullish on Lenovo’s outlook for more market
share gains,”  Kirk Yang , who rates the stock “overweight” at
Barclays Capital in Hong Kong, wrote in a report today. Non-PC
products such as smartphones and televisions will help boost the
company’s business, he wrote.  Lenovo rose 3.8 percent to HK$6.49 in Hong Kong trading,
the highest closing price since May 2008. The stock has climbed
25 percent this year, compared with the 14 percent gain for the
city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  “Smart TV”  Lenovo’s shipments of smartphones in  China  grew four times
last quarter, compared with three months earlier, while sales of
tablets also increased, CEO Yang said in a conference call
today, without giving unit numbers. The company will introduce a
“Smart TV” product in the country in April, he said.  Hewlett-Packard accounted for 16.3 percent of the global PC
market last quarter, declining from 19.4 percent a year earlier,
according to research company IDC. Lenovo increased its market
share to 14 percent from 10.3 percent, ahead of Dell, which
gained to 12.9 percent from 12 percent, according to IDC.  Lenovo and Dell were the only vendors of the world’s top
four to post gains in shipments last quarter, according to IDC.
Global PC shipments fell 0.2 percent to 92.7 million, it said.  Revenue in Lenovo’s mature-markets division, which includes
operations in the U.S.,  Japan  and western Europe, jumped 81
percent to $3.6 billion. The Chinese company acquired control of
Medion AG, a Essen, Germany-based computer maker, and the PC
unit of Tokyo-based  NEC Corp. (6701)  last year.  Looking at Acquisitions  “The U.S. corporate business is very important for them,”
Alberto Moel, who rates Lenovo shares “market perform” at
Sanford C Bernstein & Co. in Hong Kong, said before the
earnings. Demand was boosted by companies replacing aging
computers, and lower prices offered by Lenovo, Moel said.  Lenovo will be looking at acquisitions to accelerate
growth, Chief Financial Officer  Wong Wai Ming  said on the
conference call today. The company expects to grow its business
faster than the overall PC industry, he said.  Lenovo, which bought the PC division of  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  in 2005, said revenue from China rose 30
percent to $3.5 billion, or 42 percent of the company’s total.
Sales in its emerging-market division, which includes India,
Brazil and Russia, rose 13 percent.  The company, with headquarters in Beijing and Morrisville,
North Carolina, aims to become the world’s biggest PC maker, CEO
Yang said in October.  Gross profit margin , or the percentage of sales left after
deducting production costs, declined to 11.4 percent last
quarter from 12.2 percent three months earlier, Lenovo said. The
company was affected by higher prices of hard-disk drives caused
by an industry shortage, CEO Yang said. The shortage in hard-
disk supplies will continue this quarter, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  