-- Etihad Chief Considering More Purchases, Examines Aer Lingus
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-02-09T17:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/etihad-posts-first-annual-profit-as-passenger-surge-lifts-sales.html
Etihad Airways , the  Middle East ’s
third-largest carrier, said it’s mulling further purchases after
investing in  Air Berlin Plc (AB1) , with  Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL)  of
Ireland one of the companies that’s being monitored.  Abu Dhabi-based Etihad is “looking at a range of carriers”
and would seriously consider one or two global opportunities to
help feed its network, Chief Executive Officer  James Hogan  said
today in an interview, adding that there are no advanced talks.  “We don’t enter an agreement to bail somebody out, we enter
into an agreement to improve our top line and revenue and take
out more cost,” Hogan said. “With Aer Lingus we have looked at
top line, but haven’t entered into any advanced negotiations.”  Etihad’s most important growth driver this year will be its
increased 29.2 percent holding in Air Berlin, acquired for $350
million in equity financing and funds for planes, Hogan said,
with the German discount carrier likely to contribute $50
million in revenue. The Gulf company, which posted its first
full-year profit today, also has a 40 percent stake in Air
Seychelles Ltd. following a $45 million deal last month.  Ireland’s government said today after Hogan’s comments that
there has been “strong interest” in its 25 percent stake in Aer
Lingus and that all approaches will be considered in the event
of a formal decision to sell. A disposal would be part of a
drive to raise 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion) from state assets
to help satisfy commitments to the  International Monetary Fund .  Shares Gain  Aer Lingus jumped 6.7 percent before closing 5.2 percent
higher at 93.6 cents in Dublin, valuing it at 496 million euros.
The six-stock Bloomberg EMEA Airlines Index fell 0.5 percent and
Ireland’s 50 member ISEQ Overall Index advanced 0.4 percent.  “The future of the government’s stake is entirely a matter
for the shareholders,” Aer Lingus spokesman Declan Kearney said.  John Carroll, a government spokesman, said on Jan. 6 that
there was no plan to sell to Etihad after transport minister  Leo Varadkar  arranged to meet with Hogan on “tourism matters.”  Etihad’s investment criteria include a like-minded
management and the ability to cut costs and achieve network
integration, Hogan said today, adding that Air Berlin, Europe’s
third-biggest low-cost operator, was tracked for three years.  “We monitor, we discuss these opportunities with the
board,” the CEO said. “With Air Berlin it gives us a fantastic
feed out of Germany, Switzerland and  Austria . The premise is it
has to feed and integrate with our network.”  Virgin Australia Interest  Etihad has a “very strong” commercial relationship with
 Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH)  and would “seriously consider”
opportunities to deepen ties should that be possible, said
Hogan, who was born in  Melbourne . Foreign stakes in  Australia ’s
international airlines are limited to  49 percent , according to
the country’s trade commission. A call to Virgin Australia was
unanswered today outside of office hours.  Etihad is not looking at acquisition opportunities in  India 
“at the moment,” the CEO said at a press briefing. A proposal to
relax foreign ownership there is awaiting cabinet approval after
aviation and finance ministries recommended a 49 percent limit.  The Gulf carrier posted net income of $14 million for last
year, exceeding a target of breaking even, with sales 36 percent
higher at $4.1 billion. A cost-reduction program shaved $187
million from expenses, the company said in a statement. Earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation, amortization and rentals
were $648 million, and Ebit was $137 million.  Higher Frequencies  Hogan said in the interview that the state-owned carrier is
targeting revenue of about $5 billion this year, including $700
million from cargo. The passenger total should reach 10 million,
he said, 1.8 million more than in 2011, with “a corresponding
increase in profits,” as costs are reduced by 4.6 percent.  Etihad hedged more than 80 percent of its fuel costs last
year, helping protect it from volatility in  oil prices , and has
a 75 percent hedging plan in place for 2012, it said.  The airline, which competes in the Gulf with Dubai-based
Emirates, the world’s biggest airline by international traffic,
and Doha’s  Qatar Airways , has been expanding its global presence
via new routes and planes, as well as stakes in other airlines.  Etihad, which ordered 100 aircraft at the 2008 Farnborough
Air Show, will receive a “considerable” number of planes
starting in 2014 and these will be used largely to add
frequencies to existing destinations, with plans to boost
services to the Americas,  Europe  and  Southeast Asia , Hogan said.  In about a week’s time, Etihad will meet with bankers in
 New York  to help satisfy fleet-financing requirements, he said,
adding that there are no near-term plans to issue bonds or
Islamic sukuk. A similar event will be held in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn at   fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  