-- EU Reached Accord on Clearing Law for Over-the-Counter Derivatives
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-02-09T18:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/eu-reaches-deal-on-clearing-law-for-over-the-counter-derivatives.html
European Union officials and
lawmakers brokered a deal on rules to force trading of some
over-the-counter derivatives through clearinghouses to safeguard
financial markets.  The law, approved after negotiations in Brussels today,
will empower EU regulators to decide on types of derivatives
that should be centrally cleared. Traders who flout the rules
would face penalties including fines. The law also sets rules on
management of clearinghouses, including on reserves they must
hold to protect themselves from insolvency.  “The era of opacity and shady deals is over,”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services commissioner, said in an e-
mailed statement. “With this agreement, we are making a big
step for financial stability.”  Global regulators have sought tougher rules for OTC
derivatives since the collapse in 2008 of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  and the rescue of  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) , two of the largest traders in credit-default swaps.
Lawmakers have said that clearing firms should also face  tougher
regulation  because a crisis at one of them could threaten the
global financial system.  Today’s EU accord “should give an incentive to seek
further alignment of rules not just with the U.S. but also with
 Asia  where the regulatory response has been lagging in some
areas,”  Richard Reid , research director for the International
Centre for Financial Regulation, said in an e-mail.  U.S. Concerns  Negotiators on the EU rules sought to address concerns from
U.S. banks that they could face discrimination.  U.S.-based companies  warned  last year that a draft of the
law would grant exemptions from clearing rules to derivatives
trades between different units of the same bank, but only if
these units were both based in  Europe .  “We have written the rules in such a way as not to create
any friction in what is inevitably a very international
business,” Jonathan Faull, director general of Barnier’s
internal market department at the commission, said in an
interview. “We expect our American friends to enact rules
similarly synchronised with us.”  Clearinghouses such as LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and  Deutsche
Boerse AG (DB1) ’s  Eurex Clearing  operate as central counterparties for
every buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the threat from a trader’s default.  Danish Negotiators  Negotiators from  Denmark , which holds the rotating
presidency of the EU, and the European Parliament resolved
splits over what powers to give to the  European Securities and
Markets Authority  to authorize and supervise clearinghouses and
on how to coordinate the EU rules with measures applied in other
nations.  The accord would empower ESMA to settle disagreements
between national supervisors on whether a clearinghouse should
be authorized.  “Whilst the details around a number of significant issues
are still unclear, the language” in the EU deal “leaves a
sufficient degree of flexibility for the practical impact to be
thrashed out” by regulators, Damian Carolan, a lawyer at Allen
& Overy LLP, said in an e-mail.  The deal on the law must be voted on by the European
Parliament and signed off by ministers before it can enter into
force.  The Financial Stability Board warned last year that nations
including EU countries may miss an end-2012 deadline for
implementing G-20 agreements on OTC derivatives, and that there
is a risk of the rules being applied inconsistently.  The value of outstanding OTC derivatives was about $708
trillion at the end of June 2011, according to the  Bank for
International Settlements .  Barnier said the EU should now seek a speedy agreement on
separate rules that would push more trading of derivatives onto
regulated markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 