-- Euro Apppreciates as Greek Leaders Reach Deal, ECB Lowers Loan Collateral
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-02-09T22:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/euro-drops-from-two-month-high-before-greece-meeting-ecb-policy-decision.html
The euro reached a two-month high
against the dollar and the yen after Greek political leaders
said they had reached an agreement on austerity measures needed
to obtain a bailout.  The 17-nation currency strengthened against the majority of
its most-traded counterparts after  European Central Bank 
President  Mario Draghi  said it would lower the collateral
requirements to access the next three-year loan auction later
this month. The yen sank against higher-yielding counterparts as
implied volatility for Group of Seven currencies fell to an 11-
month low.  “The euro’s up on a combination of Greece and what the ECB
has done in terms of reducing the collateral requirements and
boosting expectations for the LTRO, which is supportive of risk
appetite,”  Mark McCormick , a New York-based currency strategist
at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., said referring to the ECB’s
long-term refinancing operation. “The market has been very
short euros and most of these shorts are getting squeezed out.”
A short is a bet an asset will fall.  The euro gained 0.2 percent to $1.3286 at 5 p.m. in  New
York  after rising to $1.3322, the strongest since Dec. 12. The
common currency added 1 percent to 103.19 yen after reaching
103.29 yen, the highest since Dec. 12. The yen dropped 0.8
percent to 77.67 per dollar.  ‘General Agreement’  “Discussions between the Greek government and the troika
were successfully completed this morning,” according to a
statement from the Greek prime minister’s press office,
referring to the group comprising the European Commission,
European Central Bank and  International Monetary Fund .  The accord came as euro-region finance ministers held an
emergency meeting in Brussels to discuss the 130 billion-euro
($173 billion) aid package. Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker ,
who leads the group, said there will be no final decision on
 Greece ’s bailout package at the meeting.  “It’s up to the Greek government by concrete actions --
through legislation, other actions -- to convince its European
partners that the second program can be made to work,” European
Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said
today as he arrived for the meeting.  The seven-day relative strength index for the euro versus
the dollar was 72.5, above the 70 level for the third
consecutive day. A reading above 70 indicates an asset may be
due for a correction.  The euro has risen 0.8 percent in the past week according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar dropped 0.3 percent, and
the yen declined 1.8 percent.  ECB Holds Steady  “People are really gun-shy to buy euros aggressively
because we still have the Greek parliamentary vote, a German
vote, a number of hurdles to clear,” said  Kathy Lien , director
of currency research in New York with the online currency trader
GFT Forex. Expanding collateral “is bad news because the ECB is
taking riskier and more dangerous assets on to their balance
sheet.”  The ECB maintained its main refinancing rate at 1 percent,
in line with the estimates of 55 of 57 analysts in a Bloomberg
News survey. The other two predicted a cut to 0.75 percent. The
rate was also held at 1 percent at the bank’s last meeting,
following quarter-point reductions in November and December.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, dropped 0.2 percent to 78.597 after falling to
78.364, the lowest since Dec. 8. The gauge is weighted 57.6
percent to movements in the euro.  The U.S. didn’t buy or sell dollars to affect foreign-
exchange rates in the fourth quarter, the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York said in a report to Congress today.  ‘Glass Half-Full’  The yen fell against all its major counterparts as
cumulative outflows in  Japan ’s currency were almost twice as
strong today as the daily average in the past year, according to
Bank of New York Mellon iFlow data.  Implied volatility  of three-month options for Group of
Seven currencies fell to 9.9 percent, an 11-month low, according
to the JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index . A decrease makes
investments in currencies with higher benchmark lending rates
more attractive as the risk in such trades is that market moves
will erase profits.  “While full details of the Greek debt restructuring,
austerity measures and subsequent release of rescue funds are
still awaited, currency investors are clearly choosing to view
the glass half-full,”  Samarjit Shankar , a managing director for
the foreign-exchange group in  Boston  at Bank of New York Mellon,
wrote to clients.  ‘BOE’s Preparedness’  Canada ’s dollar rose 0.1 percent to 99.47 cents per  U.S.
dollar , touching a three-month high of 99.26. Crude-oil futures
rallied 1.1 percent to $99.79 a barrel in New York.  The pound rose toward the highest since November against
the dollar after the  Bank of England  said it would increase its
bond-buying program by less than some economists forecast.  The Monetary Policy Committee raised the target for bond
purchases by 50 billion pounds ($79.3 billion) to 325 billion
pounds, more than a quarter of current outstanding gilts.  “Today’s developments have been beneficial for the
pound,” Michael Derks, chief strategist at broker FXPro
Financial Services Ltd. in  London , wrote in a note to clients.
“The BOE’s preparedness to continue to engage in responsible
monetary accommodation is gaining it some plaudits at this time
of unprecedented fiscal austerity.”  The pound traded at $1.5818 after rising to $1.5929
yesterday, the highest since Nov. 15. Sterling fell 0.2 percent
to 84 pence per euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  