-- Euro Falls From 2-Month High as Greek Aid Withheld; Aussie Dollar Weakens
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-02-10T22:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/euro-set-for-weekly-gain-on-speculation-greece-will-secure-second-bailout.html
The euro fell from a two-month high
against the dollar as European finance ministers withheld an aid
package necessary to prevent the Greek economy from collapsing.  The shared European currency slid from the highest since
December against the yen as Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos 
obtained approval from his Cabinet for deeper budget cuts needed
to secure the second package of international aid. The dollar
strengthened against all but one of its 16 major peers as stocks
slid. Australia’s dollar dropped for a third day after the
nation’s central bank lowered growth forecasts.  “There is more chance of me seeing God this weekend than
 Greece  getting its fiscal issues sorted out,” said Thomas Molloy, chief dealer at FX Solutions, an online currency-trading
company, in Saddle River,  New Jersey . “Your average investors
have become absolutely jaded with this whole saga so they are
sitting on the sidelines with the euro.”  The euro was 0.7 percent weaker at $1.3197 at 5 p.m. New
York time, paring its weekly advance to 0.1 percent. It reached
$1.3322 yesterday, the strongest level since Dec. 12.  Europe ’s
shared currency slipped 0.7 percent to 102.43 yen. The dollar
fell 0.1 percent to 77.61 yen. It earlier advanced to 77.81 yen,
the strongest level since Jan. 26.  The yen has weakened 1.6 percent against the euro this week
and fallen 1.3 percent against the dollar.  Debt-Cutting Targets  The Greek cabinet approved the 287-page document
unanimously, said a government official, who declined to be
named. The approval means the 300-seat Parliament will vote, as
soon as today, on budget measures amounting to 7 percent of
gross domestic product over the next three years and a debt swap
to slice 100 billion euros ($132 billion) off more than 200
billion euros of privately-held debt.  The approval capped a week of tension in  Athens  as European
Union and International Monetary Fund officials argued with
Greek government officials over the conditions required to
secure the 130 billion-euro rescue package.  The euro has rallied 4.5 percent versus the dollar from the
January low of $1.2624 amid speculation Greek lawmakers would
satisfy demands from the European Commission, ECB and IMF to
receive the aid package. It is trading 11 cents above its
lifetime average of $1.2060.  “The big problem with this adjustment process is that it’s
seen growth collapse and essentially depression already taking
place,”  Jens Nordvig , a managing director of currency research
in New York at Nomura Holdings Inc. said in an interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” on Bloomberg Radio. “Having massive
wage cuts to regain competitiveness is not going to be fun for
anybody. On the other hand, the other option is to have a
disorderly default.”  Australian Dollar  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, was 0.5 percent higher at 79.001.  Australia ’s currency slid versus most of its major peers
after the nation’s central bank said it sees the economy
expanding 3.5 percent this year, down from its Nov. 4 estimate
of 4 percent. Consumer prices will rise 3 percent in the year
through to the fourth quarter, less than a previous prediction
of 3.25 percent, the  Reserve Bank  of Australia said in its
quarterly monetary policy statement released today.  The so-called Aussie weakened 1 percent to $1.0674 and
depreciated 1.1 percent to 82.84 yen.  Indian Rupee  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index (ADXY)  fell for the first
week this year, retreating 0.6 percent, led by the Indian
rupee’s biggest drop since November. The rupee slid 1.5 percent
this week to 49.41 per dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The  implied volatility  of three-month options for Group of
Seven currencies fell as low as 9.79 percent, the least since
August 2008, according to the JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index ,
before rising to 10.15. A decrease makes investments in
currencies with higher benchmark lending rates more attractive
as the risk in such trades is that market moves will erase
profits.  Declining volatility in  currency markets  “tells you that
you should be getting into the higher-yielding currencies. But
then the question, of course, is how long will this last for?”
said  Adrian Foster , head of financial-markets research for  Asia 
at Rabobank Groep NV in  Hong Kong . “Once people start observing
it, more speculative money starts to pile in on the carry trade
and sows the seed of its own destruction.”  Higher-yielding currencies have surged in 2012 as improving
data in the U.S. has sapped demand for the perceived havens of
the dollar and the yen.  The Mexican peso has appreciated 8.9 percent versus the
greenback in 2012, the Brazilian real strengthened 8.4 percent
and New Zealand’s dollar gained 6.4 percent.  Mexico ’s benchmark
lending rate is 4.5 percent,  Brazil ’s is 10.5 percent and New
Zealand’s is 2.5 percent compared with a low near zero in the
U.S. and  Japan .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  