-- Europe Coal Loses to South Africa on Renewables: Energy Markets
-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n   a n d   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2012-02-09T18:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/europe-s-coal-falls-below-south-africa-s-on-renewable-boom-energy-markets.html
Germany ’s biggest program of solar-
and wind-power production has driven European coal prices below
 South Africa ’s for the first time in 10 months.  Coal in northwest Europe cost $3.55 a metric ton less than
supplies from South Africa’s Richards Bay yesterday, the widest
discount for next-month prices since May 5, 2010, according to
IHS McCloskey data. The difference is likely to keep increasing
as European demand weakens and  Asia  boosts imports from South
Africa, according to Barclays Plc.  “Producers are asking themselves if this is a seismic
shift, and I think this move probably is sustainable,” said
Bevan Jones, a general manager at  London Commodity Brokers Ltd. 
who has traded raw materials for more than 15 years at companies
including Anglo American Plc, Rand Merchant Bank and Global Coal
Ltd. “ Europe  remains well supplied by the U.S.,  Colombia  and
 Russia , while demand is on its weak side. Meanwhile, demand is
consistent in Asia,” he said by phone from Johannesburg Feb. 3.  Coal prices in Europe have fallen 7.5 percent this year as
nations increase the amount of energy they get from alternative
sources. Germany, the continent’s biggest power market,
installed a record 3,000 megawatts of new solar panels in
December, the Bonn-based Bundesnetzagentur, the network
regulator, said. Coal stockpiles at the biggest storage site in
the Netherlands are 6.7 percent above year-ago levels, according
to  Europees Massagoed-Overslagbedrijf BV , which operates the
terminal.  European Contract Falls  Coal for next-month delivery to Europe’s Antwerp-Rotterdam-
Amsterdam hub declined to $101 a ton yesterday, the lowest since
October 2010, according to data from Petersfield, England-based
McCloskey.  Richards Bay supplies  were little changed for the
year at $104.55 a ton. European prices, which include freight
costs, have averaged $8.57 a ton more than South Africa’s since
January 2008, the data show.  Output from German  wind turbines  reached a record 8
terawatt-hours in December, the BDEW utility group said Jan. 11.
The country plans to get at least 35 percent of its electricity
from renewables by 2020, compared with 20 percent last year. A
terawatt-hour is equal to about 10 percent of annual power
output at  RWE AG (RWE) ’s Emsland nuclear reactor in Germany. A
thousand megawatts can supply about 2 million European homes.  Germany’s power demand fell about 0.5 percent to 607
terawatt-hours last year, with electricity production dropping
by 2.5 percent to 612 terawatt-hours, according to the BDEW.  Spain ’s solar output rose 46 percent last year, and wind
met a record 60 percent of the country’s power demand on Nov. 6,
according to Red Electrica Corp. SA, the country’s grid
operator.  Warm Winter  “Demand for coal is fairly low at the moment,” said Hugo
du Mez, a business developer for dry-bulk shipments at  Port of
Rotterdam Authority . A warmer-than-average winter coupled with
rising solar and wind output in Germany are keeping stocks high,
he said by phone on Jan. 30.  EMO, which operates the biggest dry bulk terminal in
Europe, said its coal inventories in Rotterdam were at 3.2
million metric tons on Feb. 6.  Germany’s imports will fall by as much as 2 million tons
this year to about 45 million, Erich Schmitz, managing director
of the country’s Coal Importers Association, said Jan. 31 by
phone from Hamburg. The nation imported 46 million to 47 million
tons in 2011, less than the association’s August forecast for 49
million tons, he said.  China’s Coal Influence  “European consumers are likely to have very limited
appetite for prompt-market coal imports, given the ample
stockpiles built over November and December,” Miswin Mahesh, an
analyst at Barclays in  London , said by phone Jan. 30.  China , which uses almost half of the world’s coal, has more
influence than ever over markets of the fuel, the  International
Energy Agency  said on Nov. 9. Marginal variations between its
coal production and demand, both of which are “very large,”
will determine imports and affect international markets, the
Paris-based agency said in its World Energy Outlook.  South African prices are at the cheapest in 20 months
 relative  to those in  Australia , the world’s largest exporter of
the fuel, boosting the appeal of  Richards Bay  supplies for Asian
buyers such as China.  The price  discount  for coal at Richards Bay versus
Australia’s main export terminal at Newcastle, 98 miles (158
kilometers) north of Sydney, widened to $13.23 a ton in the week
to Feb. 3, according to McCloskey data.  “More expensive Australian coal prices from tighter
supplies combined with cheaper freight rates have encouraged
Asia-Pacific buyers to look further away for alternative
sources,” Natalie Robertson, a commodity strategist at
Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said on Feb. 1 by
e-mail from  Melbourne . “Richards Bay appears to be a
beneficiary of these conditions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net ;
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  