-- Mexico Sees No Risks on Horizon to Inflation Targets, Meade Says
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-02-09T07:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/mexico-sees-no-risks-on-horizon-to-inflation-targets-meade-says.html
Mexico  doesn’t foresee risks to
keeping inflation from exceeding targets as rising food prices
caused by the worst drought on record come under control,
Finance Minister Jose Antonio Meade said.  Inflation expectations are well-anchored in the short,
medium and long term and inflation linked to services has
remained steady, Meade said yesterday at an event in Mexico City
hosted by Bloomberg.  Mexico’s  annual inflation  has accelerated for three
consecutive months as a drought sparked price increases in
staples including corn, tomatoes and beef. Inflation reached 3.8
percent in December, the highest in 12 months and approaching
the upper limit of the central bank’s target range of 2 to 4
percent.  “There’s nothing on the horizon that makes us think that
inflationary targets are at risk,” Meade said. “The drought
has not yet had a strong impact in production regions. Its
impact has been contained.”  The central bank, led by Governor Agustin Carstens, on Jan.
20 kept the benchmark  interest rate  at 4.5 percent for a 24th
consecutive meeting, saying “the current monetary policy
posture is conducive to reaching the permanent inflation
target,” according to the meeting’s minutes.  January Prices  Analysts expect inflation to reach 3.97 percent in January,
according to the median estimate of 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. January figures for consumer prices will be released
today by the national statistics agency.  “Certainly, as happens frequently with inflation, there
will be one-time elements that impact the index,” Meade said.  Annual inflation was probably 4 percent in January,  Alonso Cervera , an economist at Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a Feb.
8 research note. Cervera raised his monthly inflation estimate
for January to 0.67 percent from 0.60 percent on food prices.  Economists raised their median estimate for year-end
inflation to 3.78 percent in a Feb. 7 bi-weekly survey by
Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit. They had projected a 3.74 percent
rate in the previous survey.  If the recent positive economic data out of the U.S.
becomes a trend, Mexico could expand “a bit more” than the 3.5
percent forecast by the ministry, Meade said at the event
yesterday.  Latin America ’s second biggest economy will expand
around 3.5 percent in 2012 from an estimated 4 percent in 2011,
Meade had said Jan. 5.  Analysts forecast growth at 3.2 percent this year,
according to the Feb. 7 Banamex survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  