-- Mexico Inflation Breached Target in January as Drought Costs Rose: Economy
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-02-09T16:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/mexico-inflation-breached-target-in-january-as-drought-costs-rose-economy.html
Mexico ’s  inflation rate  surpassed the
upper limit of the central bank’s target range for the first
time since 2010, leaving policy makers little room to lower
borrowing costs this year to help stimulate the economy.  Annual inflation in January quickened at the fastest pace
since December 2010 to 4.05 percent, exceeding all 14 estimates
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. From a month earlier,
prices rose 0.71 percent, the national statistics institute said
on its website  today . The monthly figure exceeded all 18
estimates of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Mexico’s inflation rate has risen four months in a row as
the worst drought on record pushes up costs for staples such as
tortillas, tomatoes and beef. With the U.S. economy
strengthening, and price increases expected to breach the 4
percent upper limit of the central bank’s target range for
several months, analysts don’t hold much hope for a rate cut.  “This makes it difficult for the central bank to have a
more relaxed monetary policy in the short term,” said  Rafael Camarena , a Mexico City-based economist at  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,
whose current call is for rates to decrease in March. “In the
coming weeks, we have to review our forecast to see if we will
continue with a cut in March or not.”  U.S. stocks were little changed, a day after the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rallied to a seven-month high, as investors
weighed an agreement by Greek political leaders on measures
needed to secure rescue funds.  The  S&P 500  fell 0.1 percent to 1,348.93 as of 10:58 a.m.
New York time. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  declined 7.19
points, or 0.1 percent, to 12876.76 today.  Growth, Inflation  Elsewhere today, U.K. manufacturing jumped in December by
five times as much as economists forecast and the total trade
deficit shrank to the smallest since 2003. Factory output
increased 1 percent from the previous month, while the  trade gap 
in goods and services narrowed by more than half to 1.11 billion
pounds ($1.7 billion).  China ’s inflation unexpectedly accelerated in January on
increased spending from a weeklong holiday, limiting room for
monetary easing as  Europe ’s debt crisis damps exports and the
property market cools. Prices rose 4.5 percent from a year
earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said on its website.  Speaking last night in the nation’s capital, Mexico’s
Finance Minister Jose Antonio Meade played down the impact of
the drought, saying inflation is under control.  “There’s nothing on the horizon that makes us think that
inflationary targets are at risk,” Meade said at an event in
Mexico City. “The drought has not yet had a strong impact in
production regions. Its impact has been contained.”  Food, Tradable Goods  Food, beverages and tobacco account for 23 percent of the
inflation basket measured by the statistics institute, according
to data from  Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex (BANAMEX)  unit. Elsewhere in Latin
America, the weighting of food in consumer price indexes ranges
from 18.9 percent in  Chile  to 39 percent in  Peru .  The peso traded at 12.7291 per  U.S. dollar  at 9:58 a.m.
Mexico City time, down 0.1 percent from yesterday.  The yield on government fixed-rate peso debt due in
December 2013 rose 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
4.745 per cent at 9:59 a.m. in Mexico City, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The price of the securities fell 0.05
centavo to 105.76 centavos per peso.  Mexicans paid 3.23 percent more for agricultural and
livestock prices from a month earlier, which economists see as a
sign that the drought in the northern region is driving up
prices. Tradable goods rose 0.85 percent, a category economists
associate with last year’s peso slump passing through to costs.  Inflation ‘Temporary’  Core prices, which exclude food and energy, gained 0.45
percent in January, more than the 0.40 percent median estimate
of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  It is too soon to move up calls for the central bank to
raise  interest rates  based on January’s inflation figure, said
Delia Paredes, chief economist at Grupo Financiero Banorte, in
Mexico City.  “It’s temporary and due to the drought,” Paredes said.
“Although we are seeing relatively good economic activity for
the first half of the year, the second half could decelerate and
I think that will help inflation remain at 4 percent.”  The central bank, led by Governor Agustin Carstens, on Jan.
20 kept the benchmark rate at 4.5 percent for a 24th consecutive
meeting, saying “the current monetary policy posture is
conducive to reaching the permanent inflation target,”
according to the meeting’s minutes.  Banco de Mexico  targets 3 percent inflation, plus or minus
one percentage point.  Divided Opinion  Board members disagreed on the risks to inflation and
economic growth, diverging on whether the outlook on both fronts
had improved or deteriorated, the minutes, published Feb. 3,
showed.  Economists raised their estimate for both inflation and
growth this year, according to the median estimate of 22
analysts in a bi-weekly survey conducted by Citigroup Inc.’s
Banamex unit.  The Feb. 7 poll estimated inflation would end 2012 at 3.78
percent, up from 3.74 percent in the previous survey, and
forecast economic growth of 3.2 percent this year, up from 3.1
percent previously.  Pass-Through  The survey also showed analysts expect no change in the
central bank’s overnight rate until March 2013, raising it 25
basis points, or 0.25 percentage point.  Mexico’s benchmark IPC stock index has risen 3.8 percent in
the last month in local currency terms. Yields on government
peso-denominated, fixed-rate bonds maturing in 2024 have fallen
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 6.596 percent
over the same period.  While the peso has been recovering this year, an 11 percent
slump in the currency in 2011 will still have a “mild” impact
on consumer prices, said  Gabriel Casillas , chief Mexico
economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co .  Other possible inflation drivers are “higher tortilla
prices reflecting higher global corn prices, as well as a weak
domestic corn harvest because of the drought,” Casillas said by
phone Feb. 7.  Expectations  JPMorgan raised its year-end inflation forecast to 4
percent from 3.5 percent on Feb. 3 and Banorte’s Paredes
predicted inflation will peak at 4.4 percent in June before it
subsides to 3.8 percent by the end of 2012.  Consumer prices have absorbed the shocks to the country’s
exchange rate “very well,” central bank Deputy Governor Manuel Ramos Francia said Jan. 12. Central bank studies have shown the
exchange rate’s impact on consumer prices has been limited in
the past, according to the bank’s minutes.  The peso has bounced back in the year to date to strengthen
9.5 percent, the best performance against the dollar among the
16-most traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Consumer prices for the first half of January exceeded
economists’ expectations, rising 0.32 percent, which was higher
than 12 of the 16 estimates of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
The annual inflation rate rose to 3.82 in December, the highest
in a year.  Growth in  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy will slow
to around 3.5 percent this year from 4 percent in 2011, Finance
Minister Meade said Jan. 5.  The central bank next meets to decide on rates March 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  