-- Exoma Says Cnooc Parent May Join in More Exploration Blocks
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-02-10T06:59:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/exoma-says-china-national-may-join-in-further-exploration-blocks.html
Exoma Energy Ltd. (EXE) , an oil and gas
explorer with shale prospects in  Australia ’s Queensland state,
said partner China National Offshore Oil Corp. is interested in
collaborating on future drilling operations.  Exoma has bid for four blocks next to its holdings in
central Queensland, Chief Executive Officer Rob Crook said in a
telephone interview yesterday. The state’s government may
announce the awards by April, he said.  “They have the opportunity to participate in the new
blocks,” said Crook, whose Brisbane-based  company dropped  23
percent in the last 12 months. “We work closely with their
professionals and management here and in Beijing and I can see
that level of closeness increasing.”  Exoma, which is exploring for conventional oil, shale and
coal-seam gas, completed an accord last year to sell  Cnooc
Ltd. (883) ’s parent 50 percent of its permits for A$50 million ($54
million). The Australian explorer plans to hire an investment
bank this quarter to ensure it is “well positioned to handle
future growth and advise the company on appropriate corporate
strategies in light of the growing interest in Exoma’s
portfolio,” the company said yesterday in a statement.  “We’re starting to develop value in the shale resource we
have, and we’re keen to make sure we’re properly advised in
terms of financing decisions that we take on the way forward,”
Crook said. “It’s not responding to any particular transaction
we’re aware of, but it’s longer-range planning.”  Liu Xiaobiao, China National Offshore’s Beijing-based
spokesman, didn’t answer seven calls to his mobile-phone seeking
comment.  Exploration Permits  Exoma was unchanged at 18 Australian cents a share at the
close of trade in Sydney, while the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index
declined 0.9 percent.  The explorer holds five permits in central Queensland
covering about 6.6 million acres, according to its website. The
company’s “long-term plan” is to gain enough reserves to
support a liquefied natural gas project, Exoma says.  BG Group Plc (BG/) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Hess Corp. (HES)  have agreed to
fund shale exploration through ventures in Australia, which has
an estimated 400 trillion cubic feet of recoverable shale-gas
resources, the U.S. Energy Information Administration estimates.  “If you look at Australia generally, there’s a high level
of international interest, and we’re part of that mix,” said
Crook, declining to say if any companies have approached Exoma.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  