-- Express Scripts Said Poised to Start 30-Day Clock for FTC Medco Decision
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-02-10T16:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/express-scripts-said-poised-to-start-30-day-clock-for-ftc-medco-decision.html
Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  is poised to
tell U.S. antitrust regulators it has delivered all the data
requested regarding its purchase of  Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS) ,
a move that would trigger a 30-day period for a decision on the
deal, two people familiar with the matter said.  Express Scripts is expected to certify to the Federal Trade
Commission today that it’s finished providing the necessary
information for the antitrust review, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the matter isn’t public. Under
antitrust law, the agency is required to act on a merger request
within 30 days of the certification.  The agency’s options then include clearing the deal, suing
to block it or negotiating a settlement. It could also agree
with the company to extend the 30-day period. The company and
the agency aren’t engaged in discussions about a settlement or
extension, the people said. The FTC isn’t expected to decide on
the deal until the beginning of March, one of the people said.  Brian Henry , a spokesman for  Express Scripts  speaking on
behalf of both companies, declined to comment in an e-mail.  Express Scripts, based in  St. Louis , agreed in July to buy
 Franklin Lakes , New Jersey-based Medco for $29.1 billion to
create the biggest pharmacy benefits manager in the U.S.
Pharmacy benefits managers act as middlemen among drugmakers,
pharmacies and health-plan sponsors to negotiate prices and
manage the use of drugs by patients.  The FTC is continuing its review of the transaction and
hasn’t decided whether to block the deal, one of the people
said.  Henry said on Feb. 7 the company is cooperating with the
FTC as it reviews the deal and is “confident” the merger will
be completed in the first half of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  