-- F.A. Considers Southgate, Brooking as England Caretakers: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-02-09T06:47:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/f-a-considers-southgate-brooking-as-england-caretakers-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Twin Caretakers  Gareth Southgate and Trevor Brooking are being considered
by the Football Association as emergency  England  managers after
Fabio Capello resigned last night, the  Sun reported .  Brooking, the F.A.’s director of football development,
would handle the media side of the job with Southgate, its head
of elite development, taking coaching duties for the Feb. 29
exhibition match against the Netherlands, the newspaper said.  Stuart Pearce, the coach of England’s under-21 team, is
also in the running, the Sun added. Tottenham’s  Harry Redknapp 
is the bookmakers’ favorite to take the job permanently.  Pearce, Brooking  Pearce and Brooking will take charge for the match against
the Dutch at Wembley Stadium, the  Daily Mail  reported. Pearce,
who will also manage the Great Britain team at this year’s
London Olympics, will be promoted from his under-21 role on an
interim basis with Brooking to provide a “soothing” influence,
the newspaper said.  F.A.’s Terms  The F.A. will tell Redknapp that it wants him to lead a
coaching team that the governing body has chosen, the  Daily
Mirror reported , adding Capello received a 1.5 million-pound
($2.3 million) payoff and his four  backroom staff received  as
much as 1 million pounds between them.  The governing body will put Pearce in temporary charge and
retain him as part of a coaching setup that will stay in place
irrespective of who is appointed to succeed Capello full-time,
the Mirror said.  ‘Will to Win’  Redknapp would bring a “hunger, style and will to win”
that was missing toward the end of Capello’s tenure, former
Liverpool defender Mark Lawrenson, a soccer analyst for the
British Broadcasting Corp.,  wrote  in the Mirror.  “Redknapp understands modern players, is a terrific man
manager and you only have to look at how he has coped with top
players at Tottenham,” Lawrenson added. “He just has a knack
of getting players playing for him.”  Coaching Cost  Chelsea paid 28 million pounds to fire Carlo Ancelotti in
June and hire Andre Villas-Boas as his replacement, the  Guardian
reported , citing a filing published by  Companies House .  The cost of paying off Ancelotti and his backroom staff and
compensating Porto for the acquisition of Villas-Boas lifts
Chelsea’s spending on the hiring and firing of managers in the
last four years to about 64 million pounds, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  