-- MF Global Holdings Can Hire Lawyers and Advisers, Judge Says
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-02-09T15:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/mf-global-holdings-can-hire-lawyers-and-advisers-judge-says-1-.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s bankruptcy
judge granted the company permission to hire six lawyers and
consultants in its bankruptcy, while asking for more information
about a seventh, Freeh Group International Solutions LLC.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn said in  Manhattan  court
today that he was concerned about duplicative work, and advised
the main  law firm  for MF Global’s Chapter 11 trustee, Morrison &
Foerster LP, to make sure it coordinated with all the other
advisers.  “I have some concern about the proliferation of
professionals in the case,” Glenn said.  Separately, he approved the hiring of two other firms for
the parent company’s brokerage, which is liquidating in a
separate proceeding; MF Global Inc. can hire  Slaughter & May  as
English counsel, and  Haynes & Boon LLP  as special counsel, Glenn
said.  Glenn approved MF Global Holdings’ requests to hire law
firm Freeh Sporkin & Sullivan LLP and asked for more information
about consultant Freeh Group International Solutions LLC. Both
firms are affiliated with former FBI director  Louis Freeh , who
is serving as a Chapter 11 trustee for the bankrupt holding
company.  “The issue is whether the trustee may retain a business
with whom the trustee is affiliated other than as an attorney or
an accountant,” Glenn said.  Insurance Proceeds  Separately, MF Global Holdings said it will file court
papers in March to respond to an outcry from customers about its
planned use of insurance proceeds. Customers have said $170
million in proceeds from an insurance policy should go to repay
the $1.2 billion missing from their accounts, not to cover the
defense costs of MF Global executives.  U.S. Specialty Insurance Co. also will seek permission at a
March 6 hearing to lift the usual block in bankruptcy in order
to advance defense costs to insured parties covered by its $25
million policy which covers directors and officers from May 2011
to May 2012, according to court papers filed today.  The parent, MF Global Holdings Ltd., once run by former New
Jersey governor  Jon Corzine , filed the eighth-largest U.S.
bankruptcy on Oct. 31 after getting margin calls and bank
demands for money at its operating unit, MF Global Inc. The
brokerage and the parent are in different bankruptcy proceedings
handled by two trustees.  Advisers, Counsel  Glenn approved today the retention of  FTI Consulting (FCN)  as a
financial adviser, Kasowitz, Benson, Torres & Freidman LLP as
conflicts counsel, Morrison & Foerster LP as lead counsel for
the Chapter 11 trustee,  Pepper Hamilton LLP (1195L)  as special counsel
to the trustee and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP as
bankruptcy counsel.  He also approved the hiring of Capstone Advisory Group LLC
as a consultant for creditors.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v.  MF Global (MFGLQ)  Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in  New York  at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  