-- Facebook’s Saverin Agreed to Sell Stock to Digital Sky Technologies in ’10
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-02-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/facebook-s-saverin-agreed-to-sell-stock-to-digital-sky-technologies-in-10.html
Eduardo Saverin, the co-founder of
Facebook Inc. and former Harvard University classmate of  Mark Zuckerberg , agreed to sell some of his stock to Digital Sky
Technologies in 2010, according to a new regulatory filing.  Facebook (FB)  included an attachment in its  updated prospectus 
yesterday, saying Digital Sky and the former Facebook executive
entered into the so-called Saverin Agreement, which involved the
transfer of shares. Digital Sky and a related party owned 8.2
percent of Facebook’s outstanding stock on Feb. 19, 2010.  Facebook, the world’s most popular social-networking
service, filed to go public last week, seeking to raise $5
billion in the largest Internet IPO on record. Saverin, played
by Andrew Garfield in the Oscar-winning film “ The Social
Network ,” owned about 5 percent of Facebook, according to “The
Facebook Effect,” which was published in 2010.  The  Menlo Park , California-based company is considering a
valuation of $75 billion to $100 billion in its IPO, people with
knowledge of the matter said last month. Facebook said in its
original prospectus last week that Digital Sky affiliates own
5.4 percent of the outstanding shares, signaling that the
Russian-based investment firm has reduced its stake since 2010.
Digital Sky has funded a variety of Internet companies in the
past two years, including Groupon Inc., Spotify Ltd. and Zynga
Inc.  Facebook also disclosed that Zuckerberg paid $100 to
stockholders to cede their  voting rights . Those holders included
Digital Sky, Elevation Partners and  Greylock Partners .  “This agreement is being entered into in exchange for a
payment of U.S. $100 in cash,” Facebook said in the  filing .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  