-- Falcone-Backed Ferrous Resources Said to Name Nicolato Correa as Next CEO
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-02-09T21:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/falcone-backed-ferrous-resources-said-to-name-nicolato-correa-as-next-ceo.html
Ferrous Resources Ltd. , the iron-ore
miner backed by billionaire  Philip Falcone ’s Harbinger Capital
partners LLC, appointed Jayme Nicolato Correa as chief executive
officer, a person familiar with the situation said.  Nicolato Correa, who until last year was mining director at
Brazilian steelmaker  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA , will replace
Mozart Litwinski, the person said, declining to be named because
there was no public announcement by the company yet. Ferrous
declined to comment, according to an official at an external
public relations firm working for the company in  Brazil .  Ferrous is competing with miners including Anglo American
Plc and MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA in expanding iron-ore
projects in Brazil, the world’s second-largest exporter of the
steelmaking ingredient, to meet rising Chinese demand. The Belo
Horizonte-based company produced its first ore last year and
agreed on shipment contracts with companies including Glencore
International Plc and Noble Group Ltd.  Litwinski resigned to dedicate more time to his family and
personal business, Ferrous said in a statement Jan. 19.  Ferrous is looking for a strategic partner to help finance
its projects since at least 2009, having shelved plans in June
2010 for a $400 million initial public offering in  London 
because of volatile equity markets. BHP Billiton Ltd., the
world’s largest mining company, held talks to potentially take
over Ferrous last year, two people with knowledge of the
negotiations said in October.  MMX Proposal  In December, Ferrous proposed a $2.3 billion takeover of
rival MMX, the Rio de Janeiro-based iron-ore producer controlled
by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , according to a letter
detailing the plan obtained by Bloomberg News. Ferrous holders
would own 53 percent of the combined company, with MMX owners
having the rest, according to the Dec. 19 proposal, signed by
Ferrous shareholders and addressed to MMX’s board.  The companies held “several discussions” on a merger over
the past 18 months, the letter shows. A response to the letter
was requested by Jan. 10. MMX said in a statement Jan. 19 that
it’s not interested in a merger with Ferrous.  New York-based hedge fund Harbinger, founded by Falcone,
held more than 26 percent of Ferrous as of March. The stake,
along with other holdings, is being used by the fund as
collateral for a $190 million loan from Jefferies Group Inc.,
from which Harbinger is paying a 15 percent interest rate, two
people with knowledge of the loan said this month, asking not to
be named because the fund is private.  Harbinger’s main hedge fund lost 47 percent last year.  Iron-Ore Contracts  Ferrous expects to produce as much as 4 million metric tons
of the steelmaking raw-material this year, up from 1.8 million
metric tons in 2011, Chief Financial Officer Andre Simao said
Jan. 30. The company sold five iron-ore shipments totaling
750,000 metric tons to Hong Kong-based Noble,  Asia ’s biggest
commodity supplier, he said.  The company is ramping up iron-ore production at its mines
in Brazil’s southeastern state of  Minas Gerais , including the
Viga and Esperanca assets. It plans to build a pipeline to link
the mines with a port terminal in the Espirito Santo state.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  