-- Farm Productivity Slide Can Be Reversed, Researcher Fresco Says
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-09T16:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/farm-productivity-slide-can-be-reversed-researcher-fresco-says.html
Slowing output gains in farming are
due to under-investment and can be reversed, said Louise Fresco,
a University of Amsterdam professor and former deputy director
general at the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization.
Following are comments she made at the “Feeding the World”
meeting organized by Economist Conferences in Geneva yesterday.  “The productivity decline that we see today is very much a
function of under-investment in agriculture and political
neglect. However, agriculture is back on the agenda. The
productivity decline can be reversed quite easily.”  Improved seeds, pest and disease control, better use of the
soil can all help. “There is no doubt in my mind that we can
bridge the yield gap. The yields for many farmers in  Africa , in
sorghum, for example, are the same as they were for cereals in
the Middle Ages in  Europe .”  “A large part of the production increase will still have
to come from the temperate areas, that’s where the good soils
are.”  South American agriculture requires a focus on “managing
the use of fertilizer and water and pesticides,” Fresco said.
“About a third of the fertilizer used today is wasted, the same
applies for water and maybe even more for pesticides.”  “No small farmer wants to remain a small farmer; farmers
want to grow. You must give these 400 million the opportunity to
grow. What they need is to be able to manage the stability of
their production.  ‘‘All countries that have moved up on the welfare ladder
have invested in agriculture. Improving agricultural
productivity is a way to lift the poor out of poverty.’’  ‘‘All farmers are being squeezed by the two blocs that are
forming. On the one hand the big input companies. On the other
hand, the retail and the  food industry , who are engaged in a
battle for cheap ingredients. And the farmer is being squeezed
in the middle.’’  ‘‘Most of the research today in agricultural science is
very applied stuff. Maybe we should look again at
photosynthesis, in making systems more efficient in a very
different way. The understanding of how the biology works is
going to be one of the main challenges.’’  ‘‘We’re not making use of the data that is available.
There’s a tremendous agricultural digitalization potential that
we should use and that we should invest in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 