-- Fearless Neef Tortures Oldsters, Charms Toronto Kids: Interview
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-02-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/fearless-neef-tortures-old-guard-enchants-kids-in-toronto-jeremy-gerard.html
Alexander Neef is emptying a packet
of sugar into his daughter’s open palm during the intermission
of  “Love From Afar.”   The show runs nearly three hours. Even with tumblers,
acrobats, shadow-box figures and Flying by Foy, the opera tests
the endurance of many a patron older than four-year-old Marnie,
who watched, transfixed, her father says.  “One and a half hours of sheer torture,” I heard a ticket
holder grumble as he beat a hasty retreat at the break.  Neef, the  Canadian Opera Company ’s startlingly self-assured
general director, is only 37 years old. But he has enough
experience to know that the contemporary repertory is inevitably
going to singe the ears of tradition-bound opera buffs.  They were out in force a week earlier, when I’d attended a
faultless, if uninspired, production of “Tosca,” joining the
polite cheering when Adrianne Pieczonka, creamy-voiced in the
title role, delivered the goods with “Vissi d’arte.”  Neef, however, who has run Canada’s largest opera company
since June, 2008, has a talent for keeping the peace while
programming mixed seasons that keep older subscribers renewing
and brings younger audiences into the fold.  Smooth Operator  Soft-spoken, with intense gray-blue eyes and impeccable
tailoring, he works the intermission crowd in the donors’
lounge, greeting people by name and soliciting their opinions.  He’s unyielding in his admiration for Finnish composer
Kaija Saariaho’s “Love From Afar,” an opera in the John Adams
mold about a 12th-century French prince who tires of the
material world and imagines a perfect lover. A pilgrim finds
that woman in Tripoli and, after a long sea journey, brings them
together.  To stage this co-production, a consortium that included the
 English National Opera  and  Belgium ’s  Vlaamse Opera , hired Cirque
du Soleil director Daniele Finzi Pasca, with results that are
kinetic and visually enchanting.  All three roles are tough, but the prince is a monumental
endurance course, demanding stamina, unerring pitch and
committed acting -- all of which baritone Russell Braun manages
with fierce commitment.  City Opera  Neef was also present at the opera’s premiere in 2000 at
the  Salzburg Festival , where he began his career as a protege of
Gerard Mortier. That name will be familiar to  New Yorkers .  Mortier was hired to run the  New York City Opera  (Neef had
planned to join him) when the company self-combusted and Mortier
abandoned ship before ever assuming his role.  Neef, who grew up in Rosswalden (“little forest of the
horses”), a provincial town of 1,800 in southwestern  Germany ,
and listened to opera recordings when his friends were into
heavy metal, credits Mortier with raising a generation of young,
fearless arts administrators.  “Mortier invented me,” he said. “He gave me a job in
opera when no one else would have hired someone with my CV. By
30 I had been the casting director in Paris for four years.”  Neef said he wasn’t even thinking about running a company
when, in January, 2008, a headhunter for the Canadian company.
called.  “I saw myself as an administrator,” he recalled. “I
said, ‘I don’t think I’m the person you’re looking for.’ What
first got me interested was the hardware -- the venue.”  Lush Sound  Well, yes, the venue. The Canadian Opera Company built and
owns its home, the Four Seasons Centre for the  Performing Arts ,
in the heart of downtown.  As hardware goes, it’s just about perfect, a relatively
intimate 2,071-seat house with a lush, warm sound and excellent
sightlines from every seat. The glass-walled public areas offer
enticing city views.  Two weeks after taking over the following June, Neef made
his first important decision, signing as music director an
ambitious young German conductor who was already making guest
appearances at the top opera houses.  Johannes Debus had earned the respect of the orchestra
players (who can number as many as 100), leading Prokofiev’s
massive “War and Peace.” The quick and successful hire
endeared Neef to his board and staff. Debus was in the pit for
“Love From Afar.”  The company today has 12,300 subscribers and offers a
seven-opera season of 60 to 70 performances. The annual budget
is $35 million, including the cost of operating the Four Seasons
Centre.  Neef’s mandate is to raise the company’s international
profile. His personal goal has been to avoid “peak
performances,” making certain that every production is at an
equally high level.  “I travel as much as possible,” he said, noting that
“conductors and directors are easier to find in  Europe , while
singers are far better trained in America.”  Though he’s clearly destined for bigger things, Neef might
be hard-pressed to better his situation.  Near the theater there are the Frank Gehry-designed  Art
Gallery of Ontario , the Daniel Libeskind-designed  Royal Ontario
Museum  and restaurants befitting an international finance and
cultural hub.  Great Dining  Over two weekends that took place during Winterlicious --
Toronto’s version of New York’s Restaurant Week -- we had bison
at  Pangaea  and grilled snapper at  Far Niente , two of Toronto’s
best; $35 for each three-course dinner.  Next season, Neef & Co. will see the return of film
director Atom Egoyan for a new production of  Richard Strauss ’s
“Salome,” among other enticing choices.  In the meantime, you have until Feb. 22 to see the
remarkable “Love From Afar,” a modern masterpiece that has yet
to be mounted in New York. If you go, look for Marnie next to
her serene dad, following the action from the fifth row of the
orchestra.  “Love From Afar” will be performed in repertory with
“Tosca” through Feb. 25 at the Four Seasons Centre for the
Performing Arts, 145 Queen St. West, Toronto. Information: +1-
416-363-8231;  http://www.coc.ca .  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 