-- Feeding the World Will Be More Difficult, Nestle’s Bulcke Says
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-09T11:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/feeding-the-world-will-be-more-difficult-nestle-s-bulcke-says.html
Nestle SA (NESN)  Chief Executive Officer
 Paul Bulcke  said feeding a swelling world population will be
made more difficult by slowing crop-yield growth and scarce
resources.  Following are comments Bulcke made at the “Feeding the
World” meeting organized by Economist Conferences in Geneva
yesterday. Nestle’s products include KitKat chocolate bars and
 Nescafe  instant coffee.  “In the next 40 years, we’re going to have to feed 2.3
billion additional people in the world, and they’ll be
increasingly affluent. Meeting this future challenge of food is
not going to be as easy as it was in the past. In the last 20
years, the growth per hectare has been much slower than the
growth in population.”  Crop and food losses in  developing countries  are linked to
harvesting, transportation and storage, while “in the developed
world, it is lost in the kitchen, and that is a very different
loss,” Bulcke said.  Water scarcity is “a serious problem,” with lakes drying
up and some rivers not reaching seas, according to the Nestle
CEO. “Already today there is serious overdraft,” Bulcke said.
“It’s said we’re going to run out of water much faster than
we’re going to run out of fuel.”  “The discussion on biofuels should take place as soon as
possible. The amount of food going into the wrong biofuels is
enormous and is a major source of stress” and price swings,
according to the CEO. He said that while Nestle is “not against
biofuels,” the focus should be on so-called second- and third-
generation biofuels that use crop waste and non-food materials.  Nestle is working to improve crops’ disease resistance,
yields and water efficiency and also providing improved plants
to farmers as well as training them in “the self-interest of
the company,” the CEO said.  “Coffee and cocoa are very important ingredients for us,”
Bulcke said. “We give them to the farmers. We need good-quality
ingredients, we give them that.”  The CEO said the company is also addressing the “major
issue” of child labor in cocoa production, “a much bigger
issue than Nestle alone,” he said.  “We’re investing quite heavily and increasingly in the
developing world, where the growth is. Food is local, and as a
food company you should be close to the consumer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 