-- Finnair in Talks to Form ‘Nordic Partnership’
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-02-09T11:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/finnair-in-talks-to-form-nordic-partnership-as-losses-widen.html
Finnair Oyj (FIA1S)  said it’s in talks to
create a joint venture that would expand its presence across the
Nordic region and help stem losses from short-haul operations.  Finland’s biggest airline has identified potential partners
with which to build bases, it said today after a fivefold jump
in its fourth-quarter loss to 32.6 million euros ($43 million).  “We want a stronger presence in Scandinavia and the
Baltics,” Chief Executive Officer Mika Vehvilainen said in a
phone interview. “What we would bring into the partnership is
our brand, marketing presence and distribution. The other party
would have to bring in cost-effective operational capability.”  Finnair, which has established Helsinki as a  hub  for
flights to  China ,  Japan  and  Korea , hasn’t posted an annual
 profit  since 2007 as competition with Stockholm-based  SAS Group (SAS) 
and discount carriers including  Norwegian Air Shuttle AS (NAS)  crimps
European margins. The new venture probably won’t include network
airlines and shouldn’t require any equity tie-up, the CEO said.  State-controlled Finnair fell as much as 4.6 percent and
traded 3.4 percent lower at 2.54 euros as of 12:03 p.m. in
Helsinki, paring gains this year to 10 percent and valuing the
company at 326 million euros. The stock fell 54 percent in 2011.  Direct Rival  Vantaa-based Finnair isn’t talking with Norwegian Air, SAS
or  Flybe Group Plc (FLYB) ,  Europe ’s biggest regional airline, with
which it has an existing venture in  Finland , Vehvilainen said,
adding that SAS’s costs are too high, Norwegian is a direct
competitor and U.K.-based Flybe’s planes are too small.  Among other candidates identified by Jaakko Tyrvainen, an
analyst at FIM Bank in Helsinki, German discount carrier  Air
Berlin Plc (AB1)  said it couldn’t immediately comment and AS Estonian
Air isn’t in any talks, according to its CEO, Tero Taskila.  While closer links with Finnair would in some ways be a
“match made in heaven,” they’re not on the agenda as Estonian
focuses on the Baltic, Taskila said by telephone.  Finnair aims to seal a deal by the middle of this year and
commence operations in the first half of 2013, said Vehvilainen,
who took over as CEO two years ago. Feeder costs could be cut by
“tens of percentage points,” he said.  ‘Considerable Loss’  Should Finnair succeed, the situation would become “very
uncomfortable” for SAS, Tyrvainen said. The Nordic region’s
biggest airline yesterday posted a wider-than-expected 2.08
billion kronor ($310 million) quarterly loss as the collapse of
its former Spanair brand led to a writedown on remaining ties.  Finnair’s quarterly loss, which widened from 5.7 million
euros a year earlier, exceeded the 27.9 million-euro average
 estimate  of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales rose 12
percent to 577 million euros, according to the statement.  Vehvilainen said he anticipates a “considerable loss” in
the first half and that it’s “impossible to tell” how the full
year will pan out. While a 140 million-euro cost-cutting plan,
which includes a four-plane reduction in the narrow-body fleet
this year, is going “well,” more job cuts are possible, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  