-- First U.S. Rules for Generic Biotechnology Drugs Set Out in Draft Proposal
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2012-02-09T21:32:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/first-u-s-rules-for-generic-biotechnology-drugs-set-out-in-draft-proposal.html
U.S. regulators proposed guidelines
for approving the first lower-cost copies of biologic drugs
derived from living cells in a move that will help cut national
health spending by an estimated $25 billion over a decade.  The  Food and Drug Administration  will require laboratory
and clinical studies to show that the generic versions, known as
biosimilars, are “highly similar” to the originals, the agency
said in a draft  document  posted today on its website.  Generic-drug companies led by  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  and  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Sandoz division had urged the
FDA to create a pathway to start reviewing biosimilars as
required by the 2010 health-care law. Access to lower-cost
versions of biologic medicines for cancer, arthritis and rare
diseases will save $25 billion in the 10 years after the copies
are available, the  Congressional Budget Office  estimates.  “When it comes to getting new biosimilar products on the
market, FDA has taken an innovative approach to supporting their
development at every step of the process,”  Janet Woodcock ,
director of FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, said
in a  statement .  While low-cost copies of biotech drugs are used in  Europe ,
none has yet been approved in the U.S. The law requires the FDA
to establish a review process for the treatments that may cut
costs for public health programs like Medicare about $7 billion
in a decade, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  “These draft documents are designed to help industry
develop biosimilar versions of currently approved biological
products, which can enhance competition and may lead to better
patient access and lower cost to consumers,” Woodcock said.  $5.6 Billion Market  About $80 billion worth of biologic drugs will lose patent
protection by 2013 and face competition from biosimilars that
may earn $5.6 billion worldwide, according to a 2009  report  from
Research and Markets, a market data company in Dublin.  Biologics, often delivered by injection, are more complex
and typically more expensive than so-called small-molecule drugs
derived from chemicals.  While regular generic drugs must have active ingredients
that are chemically the same as the originals, biologic
molecules may be too large and complex to replicate, said Rachel
Sherman, director of the Office of Medical Policy in the FDA’s
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research. Biologics are generally
made from living systems and can also be made synthetically, she
said.  “Sameness does not play a role in the determination
here,” Sherman said. “It’s really how close” the copy is to
the original, in terms of safety, purity and potency, she said
today on a conference call.  Awaiting Applications  While no companies have filed for FDA approval yet of a
biosimilar, the agency has received nine applications to conduct
human clinical trials on the drugs, Sherman said. The agency
also has had 21 meetings with companies seeking to develop
biosimilars.  “This is a completely new paradigm,” Sherman said. “I
don’t know when we’re going to receive our first application.
We’ve been open for business since March 2010.” The FDA will
aim to decide on each application within 10 months -- as it does
for most new drugs.  Companies seeking to offer biosimilars must submit data
from analytical studies, such as protein mapping, to show that
the product is highly similar to the original drug, according to
the guidance document. While most applications also will require
animal and human studies, those requirements may be waived in
some cases, Berman said.  The draft guidelines are an important step toward
delivering “affordable, lifesaving medicines” to doctors and
patients, the Washington-based  Generic Pharmaceutical
Association  said in a statement.  “We look forward to continuing to work with the agency to
ensure that a regulatory mechanism is developed that does not
serve as a barrier to competition, but rather would ensure the
robust competition needed to lower costs and spur future
innovation,” the group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  