-- Floundering Swing State Economies Could Doom Obama: Ezra Klein
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-02-09T00:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/floundering-swing-state-economies-imperil-obama-commentary-by-ezra-klein.html
The 2012 election is looking better
for President  Barack Obama . In the latest Washington Post-ABC
News  poll , he opened a six-point lead against Mitt Romney -- a
finding confirmed in two other polls this month by Rasmussen and
Reuters-Ipsos.  Part of Obama’s gain, no doubt, is due to the jobs reports
from December and January, which have convinced many that the
economy is in recovery.  But as Al Gore can tell you, presidential elections are not
won nationally. They’re won in individual states. In particular,
they’re won in the small subset of states that can tip either
way, the so-called swing states. There, Obama isn’t doing so
well -- perhaps because, in those states, the economy isn’t
doing so well.  In late January, Gallup  surveyed  the dozen swing states it
deemed most likely to decide the election -- Colorado, Florida,
Iowa,  Michigan , Nevada, New Hampshire,  New Mexico ,  North
Carolina ,  Ohio ,  Pennsylvania ,  Virginia  and Wisconsin -- and
found that Romney held a one-point advantage over Obama. That
lead is not statistically significant. But it’s a lot better
than a six-point deficit.  Obama won most of those states in 2008. So it’s hard to
argue that the gulf is partisan or ideological. The likelier
explanation is economic. The five largest of those swing states
-- Florida, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Ohio and North Carolina --
control more than a third of the electoral votes necessary to
win the presidency. In December, they had a collective
unemployment rate of more than 9 percent, half a percentage
point higher than the national unemployment rate. (State-by-
state numbers for January haven’t been released yet.)  Housing Drop  Similarly, an  analysis  conducted in January by the
Progressive Policy Institute looked at the housing market in 16
battleground states (adding Arizona,  Indiana , Minnesota and
Missouri to Gallup’s list). It found that since October 2008,
battleground states have experienced an average drop in  home
prices  of 16 percent. In three states --  Florida , Arizona and
Nevada -- the drop was more than 30 percent. Nationally, the
drop has been 11 percent.  So Obama will be running in swing states where the regional
economy is somewhat worse than the national economy. In some of
those states, he’ll be contending with an economy that’s much
worse than the national economy. Florida, for instance, has a
9.9 percent unemployment rate in addition to its housing
decline.  It’s a bit early to say how much this matters. Political
scientists insist that elections aren’t decided by fixed
economic data so much as by moving economic trends. There’s
little evidence that Americans vote based on the unemployment
rate or the gross national product. Rather, they vote based on
the change in the  unemployment rate  and the change in the gross
national product. In particular, they vote on the change in
those indicators during the year prior to an election.  It’s possible that, just as these states fell further in
the recession than other states, they will recover more quickly.
Take Florida: Although its unemployment rate is high, it’s
fallen 2.1 percentage points since December 2010. That’s a
larger, faster drop than we’ve seen nationally. If that trend
continues -- or accelerates in the event the state’s housing
market has reached its bottom -- Florida could prove
unexpectedly strong for Obama, as faster-than-average growth
trumps higher-than-average unemployment.  It’s also possible that some swing states will have a
harder time recovering, or that some of the employment recovery
will be due to outmigration, leaving wrecked communities behind.
In that case, voters in those states might blame Obama and
register their unhappiness in November.  No National Economy  Behind all this is an economic reality that we often
forget. We talk about the American economy, but we don’t really
have a national economy. We have 12.6 percent unemployment in
 Nevada  and 3.3 percent unemployment in North Dakota. We’ve seen
home prices fall by more than 30 percent in Arizona and rise by
0.8 percent in Indiana.  Like the euro area, where  Greece  is in a deep crisis but
 Germany  is in extraordinarily good health, there’s a great deal
of economic variation in the U.S., with some states experiencing
a small depression and others barely noticing a bump.  But unlike the euro area, we think of ourselves as a
national economy, so there has been little discussion of how to
direct policies at specific states. Many policies, such as
 unemployment insurance , are triggered automatically. But there’s
been no “Nevada rescue package” that was designed separately
from broader, national measures passed by Congress. Economically
speaking, that’s been inefficient. We have spent many stimulus
dollars in  Texas , where employment growth is rapid and the
housing market is strong, when they could have been better spent
in  Arizona .  That economic inefficiency is far outweighed by the
benefits of national solidarity. To see the other side of the
coin, look toward the euro area, where a solution has been made
immeasurably more difficult because the various member states
don’t want to bail one another out.  I wouldn’t argue for a move toward state-specific policies.
The benefits of national economic solidarity are simply too
great. But many of the states that could have benefited most
from targeted policies happen to be swing states. Consequently,
an absence of such policies has entailed excess pain for those
economies -- and perhaps for Obama’s re-election effort.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read More Online Opinion from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer on this story:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net  