-- Ford’s Mulally Says Not Retiring as Two Executives Depart From Automaker
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-02-09T21:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/ford-s-mulally-says-no-plans-to-retire-next-year-as-two-executives-depart.html
Ford Motor Co.  Chief Executive
Officer  Alan Mulally , saying he has no plans to retire, said his
top finance executive and product-development chief will depart.  Chief Financial Officer  Lewis Booth  and  Derrick Kuzak ,
group vice president of global product development, will retire
April 1, Mulally said today on a conference call with reporters.
Booth, 63, will be replaced by Bob Shanks, 59, the company’s
controller. Kuzak, 60, is being succeeded by Raj Nair, 47, vice
president of engineering and global product development.  Mulally, 66, denied speculation that he is planning to
retire by the end of next year. He has overseen three
consecutive years of profits at Ford by focusing on improving
quality and adding fuel-efficient models like the Fiesta
subcompact. He came to Ford from Boeing Co. in 2006, as the
Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker was beginning three years of
losses that would total $30.1 billion.  “I read the news release very carefully and I do not find
my name in it,” Mulally said of the company statement
announcing the retirements of Booth and Kuzak. “I have no plans
to retire and I’m absolutely thrilled and honored to serve
Ford.”  Mulally declined to say if his successor will be  Mark Fields , 51, Ford’s president of the Americas, or Joe Hinrichs,
45, chief of Ford’s operations in  Asia  and  Africa . Each is
considered a potential successor to Mulally, with Fields viewed
as the leading candidate, people familiar with the deliberations
have said.  No COO Considered  “I have read that speculation also and as you know we
don’t comment on speculation,” Mulally said of the possibility
of Fields or Hinrichs replacing him as CEO. “Our plan at Ford
is to have a very strong  succession plan  for every position,
including my own.”  Mulally said he is not considering appointing a chief
operating officer or an executive to act as his second in
command. He said he prefers to have responsibilities divided
among regional leaders and executives overseeing specific
skills, such as engineering and marketing. He meets with those
 executives  every Thursday in the “Thunderbird room” at Ford’s
headquarters for what he calls the “business plan review.”  “We’re all there, we’re all at the table and we’re using
everybody’s skills,” Mulally said. “That’s the way we operate
and that’s the way we plan to operate going forward.”  Ford Succession  Booth’s retirement smooths succession at Ford because
Mulally isn’t stepping down soon, Joseph Spak, an analyst with
 RBC Capital Markets  in New York, said in research note.  “Booth’s retirement now aids transition in succession
planning at Ford as it spaces the retirement of the CFO and the
(eventual) retirement of CEO Mulally,” wrote Spak, who has an
“outperform” rating on Ford. “We believe Mulally is likely to
stick around at least through 2013, but continue to believe an
insider is likely replacement.” Fields, who is also an
executive vice president, is the “front runner,” Spak said.  Shanks and Nair have worked closely with the executives
they are replacing and will continue the turnaround plan Mulally
started in 2006, he said.  Shanks, who joined Ford in 1977, previously worked
alongside Booth at Ford of  Europe , on the automaker’s since-
divested luxury-car lines and at  Mazda Motor Corp ., in which
Ford previously had controlling interest. Nair, who started at
Ford in 1987, was previously vice president of operations in the
automaker’s Asia and Africa region, which Mulally is targeting
for growth.  ‘Strong Bench’  “We’re just very pleased to have such a strong bench,”
Mulally said. “These two individuals have grown up with this
plan and they’re absolutely committed to it, they understand it
and, with their experience, I think we’re not going to miss a
beat.”  Ford’s board of directors yesterday also elected former
Republican presidential candidate  Jon Huntsman  to the board,
effective immediately. Huntsman, 51, former U.S. ambassador to
 China  and governor of  Utah , is chairman of the Huntsman Cancer
Foundation.  Huntsman becomes the 15th member of the board, which also
includes  Richard Gephardt , a former majority leader of the U.S.
House of Representatives and a candidate for the  Democratic
Party ’s presidential nomination in 1988 and 2004.  Quarterly Profit Streak  Ford reported its  11th consecutive  profitable quarter Jan.
27, with net income of $13.6 billion, or $3.40 a share, boosted
by a one-time tax gain of $12.4 billion. For all of 2011, Ford’s
profit excluding some items was $8.8 billion, or $1.51 a share,
up $463 million from the previous year.  Ford had $13.1 billion in automotive debt as of Dec. 31,
more than U.S. rivals, because it borrowed $23 billion in late
2006, after Mulally arrived from Boeing and before credit
markets froze. That enabled the automaker to avoid the bailouts
and bankruptcies that befell the predecessors of  General Motors
Co.  and Chrysler Group LLC in 2009.  Ford fell 1.2 percent to $12.69 at the close in  New York .
The shares have gained 18 percent this year after falling 36
percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  