-- Foreclosure Deal to Spur New Wave of U.S. Home Seizures, Help Heal Market
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-02-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/foreclosure-deal-to-spur-new-wave-of-u-s-home-seizures-help-heal-market.html
The $25 billion settlement with
banks over foreclosure abuses may result in a wave of home
seizures, inflicting short-term pain on delinquent U.S.
borrowers while making a long-term housing recovery more likely.  Lenders slowed the pace of foreclosures as they negotiated
with  attorneys general  in all 50 states for more than a year
over allegations of faulty and fraudulent paperwork used to
repossess homes. With yesterday’s agreement, banks are likely to
resume property seizures.  “The best thing about the settlement, frankly, is that it
will be done,” said Stan Humphries, chief economist for
Seattle-based  Zillow Inc. (Z) , a provider of home-sales data. “The
shadow of the settlement hung over the market for a year now.”  The backlog of foreclosures has trapped homeowners in
properties they can no longer afford, depressed neighborhood
prices by increasing the number of abandoned homes and led banks
to tighten mortgage credit standards because of uncertainty
about the cost of their potential obligations. Foreclosure
starts fell 46 percent in December from October 2010, when the
investigation into the so-called robo-signing of mortgage
documentation began, according to Irvine, California-based
RealtyTrac Inc.  The agreement will direct $17 billion to writing down debt
to buffer about 1 million homeowners from foreclosure through
mortgage forgiveness, forbearance or loan modification programs,
according to Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan. About 750,000 borrowers may get direct payments of as
much as $2,000 to compensate them for servicing errors.  Small Borrower Universe  Principal reductions and other loan modifications will be
accessible to a small universe of borrowers because the deal
doesn’t include loans owned or guaranteed by  Fannie Mae (FNMA) ,  Freddie
Mac  or Ginnie Mae, which pools and sells Federal Housing
Administration loans. The five banks included in the settlement
control or own 7.3 percent of all outstanding single-family
mortgages, according to Inside Mortgage Finance.  “The primary beneficiaries of any principal reductions,
loan modifications or refinancings are really a universe that
excludes 92 percent of mortgage borrowers,” said  Guy Cecala ,
publisher of the newsletter.  After a six-year slide in  home prices , demand is showing
signs of strengthening, bolstered by a jobless rate that fell to
 8.3 percent  last month. The number of Americans who signed
contracts to buy previously owned homes in December held near a
19-month high, indicating that stabilization in the market that
began in late 2011 may continue this year.  Driving Down Prices  A surge of home seizures may drive down values, at least
for a while, in a fragile market. The number of new foreclosure
filings fell 34 percent last year, according to RealtyTrac,
resulting in a backlog that now may flood the market with low-
cost properties. About 1 million foreclosures will be completed
this year, up 25 percent from 2011, according to the firm.  “All of this will result in more foreclosure pain in the
short term as some of the foreclosures that should have happened
last year instead happen this year,”  Daren Blomquist , a
RealtyTrac vice president, said in an e-mail yesterday.  About 5 million homes have been lost to foreclosure in the
U.S. since 2006, according to RealtyTrac.  “I think there’ll be more price weakness, because we’ll
see the number of distressed sales pick up,” said  Mark Zandi ,
chief economist for Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,
 Pennsylvania . “But I think the price declines will be modest. I
think the banks themselves are going to be very sensitive to
market prices. I don’t think they’re just going to dump
property. That wouldn’t be in their best interest.”  Decline Since 2006  Home prices have dropped 33 percent from their July 2006
peak, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of values in 20
U.S. metropolitan areas. About 11 million U.S. homeowners have
negative equity, or owe more on their mortgages than their homes
are worth, according to  CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX) , a real estate data
provider. That has limited their ability to sell or refinance
and reduced the incentive to keep paying.  Principal reductions may help cut the number of mortgage
delinquencies by improving borrowers’ finances and reducing
incentives for so-called strategic default, when homeowners walk
away from a property because they have too much negative equity,
according to a Federal Reserve report sent to Congress Jan. 4.  U.S. homeowners have $750 billion in negative equity,
Humphries said. The deal will help the residential market “at
the margins, but little more,” according to an analysis late
last month by London-based  Capital Economics  of the impact of
the settlement on housing.  Reductions ‘Seem Small’  The money may have an added benefit: It will test the
effectiveness of principal forgiveness in preventing defaults,
and may spur a larger-scale program if successful, said  Paul
Diggle , a property economist at Capital Economics.  “There has been a lot of discussion of principal
reductions and whether that’s the one measure the U.S. housing
market needs to get it going again,” he said in an interview
this week. “That may well be the case. But the amounts of
principal reductions under the settlement seem small.”  Principal was reduced on 10,772 loans, or 7.8 percent of
the mortgages with payment modifications, in the third quarter
of last year, according to the office of the U.S. Comptroller of
the Currency. All of those loans were held by private investors
or were in bank portfolios.  The agreement announced yesterday includes $5 billion in
cash for states to pay for foreclosure-prevention initiatives.
Loan servicers will refinance $3 billion in mortgages to reduce
homeowners’  interest rates  and pay about $1.5 billion to
borrowers harmed by botched foreclosures.  Debt Forgiveness  The money set aside for mortgage-debt forgiveness also can
be used for short sales, when a lender agrees to a sale for less
than owed on the home. Banks have been stepping up the sales by
pre-approving deals, streamlining the closing process, forgoing
their right to pursue unpaid debt and in some cases providing as
much as $35,000 in “relocation” incentives. Short sales
accounted for 33 percent of financially distressed transactions
in November, up from 24 percent a year earlier, according to
Santa Ana, California-based CoreLogic.  For  California , which has the highest number of properties
in the foreclosure pipeline, banks agreed to pay $12 billion to
help 250,000 homeowners with principal reductions or short
sales, according to Kamala Harris, the state’s attorney general.  Borrowers in  Florida , which had the second-most
foreclosures, will receive an estimated $7.6 billion in benefits
from loan modifications, including principal reduction,
according to state Attorney General  Pam Bondi .  Citigroup, Wells Fargo  The total value of the agreement with lenders including
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Bank of America Corp.  and  Wells Fargo & Co.  may
grow to $40 billion if the next nine largest mortgage servicers
sign on to the agreement, Donovan said. In a best-case scenario,
if all banks participate fully, the deal might be worth $45
billion to homeowners and victims of foreclosure.  The settlement adds to a series of recently expanded
government steps to protect consumers and encourage lenders to
refinance homes and modify payment terms for homeowners facing
foreclosure.  President Barack Obama this month proposed plans to expand
loan modifications for delinquent homeowners to include some
principal reductions through his administration’s Home
Affordable Modification Program, or HAMP. Underwater homeowners
would be able to refinance at current low interest rates through
the Home Affordable Refinance Program, or HARP. Some of the
refinancing plans require Congressional approval.  Under the administration’s Making Home Affordable program,
$29.9 billion in aid had been pledged as of Jan. 30.  Buying in Bulk  Separately,  Fannie Mae , the mortgage company under U.S.
conservatorship, invited investors to apply for a new program to
buy foreclosed homes in bulk to be managed as rental properties,
under another program announced by the Federal Housing Finance
Agency. The goal of that program is to reduce the inventory of
foreclosures while providing rental homes to people who can’t
qualify to buy or don’t want to own.  “No action, no matter how meaningful, is going to by
itself entirely heal the housing market,” Obama said at an
appearance with state attorneys general in  Washington  yesterday.
“But this settlement is a start. And we’re going to make sure
that the banks live up to their end of the bargain.”  Investors are likely to buy many of the foreclosed homes
that come on the market to take advantage of low prices and
demand for rentals, Zandi said. About 21 percent of home sales
in December were investor purchases, according to the National
Association of Realtors.  Manage as Rentals  Private equity funds including Los Angeles-based  Oaktree
Capital Management LP (OAKTRZ)  and New York-based GTIS Partners announced
plans in January to buy $2.5 billion of foreclosed single-family
homes to manage as rentals, focusing on states with the highest
number of foreclosures, such as California, Florida and Nevada.  “There’s pretty strong investor demand, particularly in
some markets where prices have overshot,” Zandi said. “They’ve
gone well below what you’d expect given incomes and rents.”  There remains a danger that “a wave of foreclosures” may
destabilize the housing market, said  Susan Wachter , professor of
real estate and finance at the University of Pennsylvania’s
Wharton School.  “The logjam has to be unleashed and it has been -- this
will do that,” she said. “That’s a good thing. But then there
needs to be methodical loan-by-loan determination of the best
resolution.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  