-- Former Tour Champ Jan Ullrich Has Results Voided by Court For Blood Doping
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-02-09T11:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/former-tour-champ-jan-ullrich-has-results-voided-by-court-for-blood-doping.html
Retired cyclist Jan Ullrich, who won
the 1997 Tour de France and finished second to  Lance Armstrong 
four times, was banned for two years and had results between
2005 and 2007 voided after being found guilty of blood doping.  The Court of Arbitration for Sport in Lausanne,
 Switzerland , announced the decision in an e-mailed statement
today. It said the German’s DNA was matched to blood bags seized
by police in a 2006 anti-doping investigation in  Spain .  Cycling ruling body  Union Cycliste Internationale  had
sought a life ban for Ullrich, who quit as an elite rider in
2007. The court’s decision comes three days after it stripped
 Alberto Contador  of his 2010 Tour title and suspended him for
two years for failing a drug test.  Ullrich beat Richard Virenque of  France  by 9 minutes, 9
seconds in 1997, and was runner-up on five occasions, including
four times when record seven-time champion Armstrong won the
race. He was among nine riders suspended from the 2006 Tour
after Spanish police linked them to “Operacion Puerto,” or
“Operation Mountain Pass.”  The German will lose his third place finish at the 2005
Tour, among other results.  Ullrich was fired by his then team T-Mobile following the
link and quit cycling at age 33, saying the allegations against
him were wrong. He had served a six-month ban for testing
positive for amphetamines in 2002, which he said was down to
taking drugs on a night out.  World Anti-Doping Agency guidelines say athletes should
receive a life ban for a second offense, although the Swiss
court stopped short of that sanction. It ruled that since 2002,
amphetamines are only classified as a doping offense if found in
an athlete’s system during competition.  Contador was stripped of his 2010 title after the court
rejected the Spaniard’s argument he tested positive for
clenbuterol because he ate a contaminated steak. The panel said
it was more likely the stimulant detected in his body during the
race came from a tainted food supplement.  U.S. investigators interviewed members of Armstrong’s
former U.S. Postal team the last two years after one of them,
 Floyd Landis , said doping was widespread on the team. Landis was
stripped of his 2006 Tour victory for doping.  Armstrong has denied doping, and federal authorities said
Feb. 4 that the Texan and other team members are no longer the
subjects of a criminal probe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  