-- Fortress, Relativity Sued by Investor in Sony Film Deal
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-02-09T03:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/fortress-relativity-media-sued-by-investor-in-sony-film-deal.html
Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  and
Relativity Media LLC were sued by an investor who claimed $44
million in losses from a film financing agreement with  Sony
Corp. (6758) ’s movie studio.  Aramid Entertainment Fund Ltd., a hedge fund that
specializes in financing movies, filed the complaint today in
Los Angeles County Superior Court. The fund accuses Fortress of
breach of contract, among other claims, for allegedly using
confidential information obtained from Aramid to make a deal
with Sony that destroyed Aramid’s investments.  “This is one of the greatest heist stories ever told in
the movie business,” Aramid said in the complaint.  Aramid in 2008 invested $22 million in Class B notes in a
so-called film-slate financing deal negotiated between
Relativity Media, an independent movie financier and producer,
and Sony Pictures, according to the complaint. The agreement was
set up to fund as many as 45 movies over five years and included
a $525 million commitment from  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Aramid said.  In 2010, New York-based Fortress, a manager of buyout and
hedge funds, did due diligence on Aramid’s portfolio, according
to the complaint. Fortress didn’t make an offer for any of
Aramid’s assets and used information about the Sony investments
to buy the outstanding balance of Citigroup’s stake, $226.7
million, for 50 cent on the dollar, according to the complaint.  $216 Million  Fortress, now the majority owner of the Class A and Class B
notes, then agreed with Sony to cap the amount of payments due
to the investors at $216 million, which left nothing for Aramid,
the only other investor in the Class B notes, according to the
complaint.  Fortress made a gross profit of at least $96.1 million and
paid Relativity $14.5 million to agree to the deal, Aramid said.  Gordon Runte, a spokesman for Fortress, didn’t immediately
return a phone call to his office seeking comment on the
allegations after regular business hours.  Relativity Media is involved in movie finance, production
and distribution. Last year, the  West Hollywood , California-
based studio participated in movies including “Immortals,”
“Bridesmaids,” and “Cowboys and Aliens.” Relativity also
owns and operates Rogue Pictures, a unit that specializes in
teen-oriented films.  Billionaire  Ron Burkle  agreed to buy Elliott Management
Corp.’s minority stake in Relativity last month, two people with
knowledge of the situation said on Jan. 6. Relativity founder
Ryan Kavanaugh had been seeking a buyer for Elliott’s holding
since last year.  Adam Keen, a spokesman for Relativity, didn’t immediately
return a call to his office seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Aramid Entertainment v. Fortress Investment,
BC478589, Los Angeles County Superior Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  