-- Freed Guantanamo Prison-Camp Detainees Returned to Terror, Republicans Say
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-02-09T23:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/freed-guantanamo-prison-camp-detainees-returned-to-terror-republicans-say.html
About 27 percent of 600 detainees
released from the U.S. Navy’s Guantanamo Bay prison in Cuba have
been confirmed or suspected of returning to terrorist or
insurgent activities, according to Republican lawmakers.  Some former detainees hold leadership positions with the
Taliban or al-Qaeda, according to a report released today by
Republicans on the House Armed Services Committee. Democrats on
the panel dismissed the report as bogus, calling it “smoke and
mirrors.”  Presidents  Barack Obama  and  George W. Bush   both “assumed
a questionable level of risk in the release of detainees from
Guantanamo Bay,” the Republicans said in a statement on the
report about released detainees.  Bush began using the detention facility in Cuba to hold
suspected and accused terrorists after the Sept. 11 attacks.
Obama campaigned for president promising to close Guantanamo,
saying it attracted international criticism of U.S. detention
policies and interrogation practices. Facing congressional
opposition, Obama backed away from an executive order to close
the prison that he issued on his first day in office.  “The facts indicate that neither the Bush nor Obama
administrations sufficiently addressed the problem of
reengagement and detainee transfers,” Representative Rob Wittman of  Virginia , chairman of the investigations and
oversight subcommittee that wrote the report, said in a
statement.  Boehner’s Reservations  Director of National Intelligence James Clapper has said
the Obama administration has been weighing the possibility of
transferring some Afghan Taliban detainees from Guantanamo to a
third nation in an effort to bring the Taliban to peace talks.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, told
reporters today that his party has “great reservations” about
further releases of Afghan or Pakistani prisoners because of the
evidence “that they end up back on the battlefield.”  The Republicans said the 27 percent recidivism rate was an
increase from 25 percent in October 2010. At that time, 13.5
percent of detainees released were confirmed to have renewed
terrorist or insurgent activities and 11.5 percent were
suspected of having done so by the government, according to the
Republicans.  Report ‘Fails’  Democrats on the panel didn’t sign the report, providing a
dissenting view published in its closing pages.  “The report was supposed to be a comprehensive and
bipartisan look” at former Guantanamo detainees, “but fails at
both objectives,” the Democrats wrote.  “Much of that failure is due to the majority’s insistence
on releasing a public report during an election year,” they
said. “The majority is well aware that most of the relevant
material is classified and politically sensitive.”  Committee Republicans said that the study was based
primarily on 19 interviews with current and past policy makers
and staff members from the White House, the Defense Department
and the State Department as well as hundreds of pages of
declassified documents, and some secondary sources. The
Republicans said they also evaluated “a large volume of
classified information.”  The Republicans urged federal defense and national security
agencies to produce a report assessing what is causing released
detainees to reengage with terrorism or insurgency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  