-- G-20 Won’t Have Europe Aid Deal at February Meeting, Mexico’s Meade Says
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-02-09T04:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/g-20-won-t-have-europe-aid-deal-at-february-meeting-meade-says.html
The Group of 20 nations probably
won’t reach a consensus on the amount it could designate for aid
to  Europe  at its ministerial meeting at the end of February,
 Mexico ’s Finance Minister Jose Antonio Meade said.  While increasing assistance to help Europe’s liquidity is a
“relevant” topic for the G-20, it is too soon to expect
details on how agencies such as the  International Monetary Fund 
will be strengthened, Meade said today at an event hosted by
Bloomberg in Mexico City. Finance ministers of G-20 nations are
meeting in Mexico City Feb. 24-26.  The IMF proposed last month to lift its lending capacity by
as much as $500 billion to insulate the world against any
worsening of Europe’s debt crisis. Mexican policy makers have
pushed for greater support for the fund through its current
presidency of the G-20.  “From now until the end of February, with the first
ministerial meeting, it’s very unlikely that a consensus will be
generated, including with respect to the amount,” Meade said.  Between now and the June 18-19 leader’s summit the
discussion over the amount should be more developed once there’s
a clearer idea of how Europe’s crisis is evolving, Meade added.  ‘Great Effort’  “The first thing that has to happen is that Europe has to
make a great effort,” as liquidity conditions improve, Meade
added.  President Felipe Calderon on Jan. 26 urged G-20 nations to
gather more funds to prevent the European debt crisis from
destroying the euro and undermining stability elsewhere in the
world.  Officials from the G-20 “are in consensus about shoring up
schemes that support sovereign financing,” for both Europe and
the IMF, Mexico’s Deputy Finance Minister  Gerardo Rodriguez  told
reporters after a Jan. 20 meeting of representatives from the
organization in Mexico City.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  