-- Gabrielle Giffords Backs Top Aide for Her Former U.S. House Seat
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-02-09T23:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/gabrielle-giffords-backs-top-aide-for-her-former-u-s-house-seat.html
Former U.S. Representative  Gabrielle Giffords , a Democrat, helped recruit an aide as her preferred
successor to the Arizona congressional seat she gave up last
month.  Ron Barber, who ran her district office from 2007 until
resigning this week, announced today he will run in the special
election to fill the remainder of Giffords’s term as she
recovers from a gunshot wound to her head. Barber said he had no
plans to seek public office until Giffords and her husband,
retired astronaut  Mark Kelly , approached him.  “Congresswoman Giffords asked me, and so did Mark, to
consider running a couple weeks back,” Barber, 66, said on a
conference call with reporters today. “I have their full
support going forward, and I feel very fortunate and very
honored to have that.”  Barber, who was hurt in the same Jan. 8, 2011, shooting
that left Giffords gravely injured, said he will decide soon
whether to also run for a full two-year term in November.  Barber was shot in the face and leg in the attack during a
constituent event in Tucson. Six people died, including a 9-
year-old girl and a federal judge. Giffords suffered severe
injuries that led to her decision to resign from office Jan. 25
to focus on her recovery.  Minutes after Barber’s announcement, Giffords’s husband e-
mailed her supporters seeking donations to Barber’s campaign.
The special-election primary is scheduled for April 17 and the
general election will be June 12.  Competitive District  Arizona ’s 8th Congressional District has long been viewed
as competitive for both parties. A Republican held the seat for
more than two decades before Giffords’s election in 2006. She
beat Tea Party-backed Republican Jesse Kelly by fewer than two
percentage points in 2010.  Barber said his health is “great” following his recovery
from the shooting.  After Barber’s announcement, Democratic state
Representative Matt Heinz, an internal medicine doctor, said he
will withdraw from the special-election race and support
Barber’s candidacy. Heinz said he will continue to campaign for
a full two-year term in the Nov. 6 election.  Jesse Kelly is running to fill the seat, as are fellow
Republicans state Senator Frank Antenori, sports announcer Dave
Sitton and Martha E. McSally, the first female fighter pilot to
fly in combat. All said they will run in the special election
and in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  