-- Gasoline Rises to Five-Month High on Greek Deal, Plant Closures
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-02-09T20:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/gasoline-rises-to-five-month-high-on-greek-deal-plant-closures.html
Gasoline surged to a five-month high
as  Greece  approved measures to ward off default, easing concern
that European demand may decline, while refinery shutdowns
increased speculation that supplies may be curtailed.  The best performing energy commodity this year rose for the
fourth time in five sessions as Greek political leaders reached
a deal that may lead to the country’s second rescue in two
years. Hovensa LLC and Petroplus Holdings AG are closing plants
this month in the  U.S. Virgin Islands  and  Germany .  “We’re up on the Greek austerity deal, and concern about
refinery issues is keeping the market on edge,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest in Chicago.  Gasoline for March delivery rose 3.76 cents, or 1.3
percent, to $3.0128 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was the highest settlement for the front-month
contract since Aug. 31. Prices have risen 12 percent this year.  “I think it can go all the way up to $3.20,” said  Michael
Smith , president of T&K Futures & Options in Port Saint Lucie,
Florida. “Gasoline has been a bullish buy since making a double
bottom on Dec. 16 and Dec. 19. That’s what a real  bull market 
looks like, higher lows and higher highs.”  A double bottom refers to the level a commodity drops to
twice in succession, a technical indicator that the futures have
buying support at that price and may rebound.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  called European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  to tell him “an agreement
has been reached,” Draghi said at a press conference today in
Frankfurt.  Petroplus Halt  Futures rose 1.6 percent yesterday as  Petroplus (PPHN)  said it’s
halting production at its Ingolstadt refinery within two weeks.
The refiner shut three other plants and is operating a fifth in
the U.K. at reduced rates. Hovensa shut its St. Croix plant and
two refineries in Pennsylvania closed late last year.  “This closure level is significant,” Bill Klesse, chief
executive officer of  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , said today during the
Credit Suisse Energy Summit in Vail, Colorado. “There’s
basically a million barrels a day out of this market.”  Refiners are also shutting units for seasonal maintenance.
Valero is shutting a crude unit and coker today at the 250,000-
barrel-a-day St. Charles refinery in Norco, Louisiana, for 10
weeks of planned work.  Citgo Lemont  Citgo Petroleum Corp. will shut most of the production
units at its 170,500-barrel-a-day Lemont, Illinois, refinery
near the end of April for a planned turnaround, according to two
people familiar with refinery operations.  Over the past four weeks,  gasoline demand , measured by
deliveries to wholesalers, was 6.8 percent lower than a year
earlier, the Energy Department reported yesterday.  “A lot of the movement higher comes from the Dow, which
shows an economy that is expanding, the euro moving higher and
the closure of a number of refineries that cuts into supply and
ignores demand entirely,” said  Peter Beutel , president of
trading advisory company Cameron Hanover Inc. in  New Canaan ,
Connecticut. “We have dismal demand in the U.S. right now.”  Gasoline’s discount to the front-month heating oil contract
narrowed a second straight day, to 19.57 cents from 21.43.  March-delivery heating oil rose 1.9 cents, or 0.6 percent,
to settle at $3.2085 a gallon on the exchange.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.5
cent to $3.488 yesterday, according to AAA data. Prices were 12
percent higher than a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  