-- German Bunds Fall as Greek Leaders Reach Austerity Deal; Italy Bonds Rise
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-02-09T16:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/german-bunds-slump-as-greek-leaders-said-to-reach-deal-italian-bonds-rise.html
German bunds fell for a third day as
Greek politicians reached a deal on austerity measures required
for another bailout package, damping demand for the euro-
region’s safest securities.  Ten-year  bund yields  climbed to the highest level in eight
weeks after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
recent surveys confirm “signs of stabilization” in the region.
He spoke after the ECB kept  interest rates  on hold for a second
month. Italian and Spanish bonds rose after a U.S. report showed
jobless claims unexpectedly fell, boosting demand for higher-
yielding assets.  “Any further steps toward an agreement and implementation
of the things that  Greece  needs to do is positive for risk
sentiment,” said Rasmus Rousing, a fixed-income strategist at
Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. Bund yields also moved higher
as U.S. economic data “continued to be firmer and positive.
That has given support to sentiment,” he said.  The German 10-year yield rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.03 percent at 4:21 p.m. London time,
after rising to 2.05 percent, the highest since Dec. 13. The 2
percent bond due January 2022 dropped 0.38, or 3.80 euros per
1,000-euro face amount, to 99.77. The two-year yield climbed two
basis points to 0.27 percent.  “Discussions between the Greek government and the troika
were successfully completed this morning,” Greek Prime Minister
 Lucas Papademos ’s office said in a statement, referring to the
European Commission, ECB and  International Monetary Fund .
“There is a general agreement in the context of the new program
ahead of tonight’s euro group meeting.”  Venizelos in Brussels  The accord came after Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos arrived in Brussels for an emergency meeting of euro-
region finance ministers to discuss the 130 billion-euro ($172.9
billion) bailout and a debt swap that will impose a loss of
about 70 percent for investors.  The ECB kept its refinancing rate at a record low 1
percent, matching the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. There are “tentative signs of
stabilization in economic activity,” Draghi said at a press
conference following the meeting.  Greek two-year notes gained, with the yield on the 4
percent note maturing in August 2013 dropping 5.5 percentage
points to 182 percent. The price gained 0.7 to 22 percent of
face value.  Italian Bonds  Italy’s  bonds  gained for a fourth day after the U.S. Labor
Department said applications for jobless benefits decreased
15,000 in the week ended Feb. 4.  Job creation  also accelerated
last month, showing the world’s largest economy is gaining
momentum.  The Italian 10-year yield fell 10 basis points to 5.48
percent, shrinking the extra yield that investors demand to hold
the securities instead of German bunds by 14 basis points to
3.46 percentage points.  Spain ’s 10-year  yield  declined four basis points to 5.18
percent, after rising 15 basis points yesterday.  Spanish and Italian bonds have rallied since the the ECB
offered unlimited three-year cash to the region’s banks in
December to avoid a credit crunch. The central bank will offer a
second round of loans on Feb. 28, with allotment a day later.  Euribor  The  rate  at which European banks say they see each other
lending in euros for three months dropped for a 36th day, the
longest run of declines in 2 1/2 years, as record borrowing at
the central bank’s three-year tender eased funding costs.  The euro interbank offered rate, or Euribor, for such loans
dropped 0.7 basis point to 1.07 percent, according to data from
the European Banking Federation. That’s the longest run of
losses since August 2009, and is the  lowest  since January 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The rate has fallen every day since the ECB allotted 489
billion euros to 523 banks on Dec. 21.  Germany ’s bonds have declined 0.8 percent this year,
according to indexes compiled by the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Italian securities
gained 8.4 percent and Spanish debt returned 1.4 percent, the
indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  