-- Germany Expels Four Syrian Embassy Diplomats After Spy Charges
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-02-09T12:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/germany-expels-four-syrian-embassy-diplomats-after-spy-charges.html
The German government said it was
expelling four Syrian diplomats, escalating a standoff after
this week’s arrest of two men suspected of spying for Syrian
intelligence on opposition groups active in  Germany .  The Syrian ambassador was informed today of the expulsion
of the embassy personnel in Berlin, German Foreign Minister
 Guido Westerwelle  said in an e-mailed statement. The ministry
had summoned the ambassador on Feb. 7, the day of the arrests,
to warn against espionage activity.  “The position of the government was once again made
unequivocally clear, that any activity against the Syrian
opposition will not be accepted,” Westerwelle said. The embassy
personnel, who are accused of activity not in compliance with
diplomatic duties, have three days to leave the country with
their families, according to the German Foreign Ministry.  The diplomatic scuffle adds to the international deadlock
over  Syria , where President Bashar al-Assad’s forces continued
to shell cities where the opposition is concentrated. The  United
Nations  estimates that more than 5,400 people have died since
protests in the country began last March.  Russia is seeking to broker talks between the Syrian
government and the opposition after its government and  China 
vetoed a UN Security Council resolution on Feb. 4 backing an
Arab League plan for a transfer of power in the country.  The arrests in Berlin two days ago were part of an
operation involving 70 investigators, who searched the suspects’
apartments and those of six others. The men taken into custody
were identified as Mahmoud El A., 47, who holds German and
Lebanese citizenship, and Akram O., 34, a Syrian national.  Observing the Opposition  The two are “strongly suspected of carefully observing the
Syrian opposition in Germany for a Syrian intelligence agency
for years,” the Federal Prosecutor said in a statement.  Suspicion of Syrian espionage in Germany was underscored on
Dec. 28, when the Foreign Ministry called on investigators to
clarify the alleged beating of a Syrian opposition figure, a
member of the  Green Party  in Berlin’s Mitte district, after the
party said it was probably the work of Syrian agents.  Police said at the time that the politician, Ferhad Ahma,
had been beaten at his apartment early on Dec. 26 by two men
posing as police officers. Local Greens officials accused the
Syrian government of trying to intimidate Ahma.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  