-- German Stocks Gain Amid Greek Talks; Daimler Shares Jumps After Earnings
-- B y   K o n s t a n t i n   R i f f l e r
-- 2012-02-09T17:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/german-stocks-gain-amid-greek-talks-daimler-shares-jumps-after-earnings.html
German stocks rallied to a six-month
high, led by carmakers, as  Daimler AG (DAI)  reported an increase in
profit, and as Greek political leaders announced agreement on
austerity measures, clearing the way for a deal to cut the
nation’s debt and win its second rescue in two years.  Daimler rose 4.6 percent after the maker of Mercedes-Benz
cars and trucks reported fourth-quarter earnings that exceeded
estimates.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  added 3.7 percent and
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  rose 2.1 percent.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  surged 3.3
percent.  The DAX Index gained 0.6 percent to 6,788.80 at the end of
the trading day in  Frankfurt , the first increase in four days.
The broader HDAX Index added 0.5 percent.  “Discussions between the Greek government and the troika
were successfully completed this morning,” Greek Prime Minister
 Lucas Papademos ’s office said in an e-mailed statement today in
 Athens . “Political leaders have agreed with the result of those
negotiations. Therefore there is a general agreement in the
context of the new program ahead of tonight’s euro group
meeting.” The statement didn’t include any details.  The European Central Bank today left the benchmark  interest
rate  at a record low of 1 percent.  The bank’s president,  Mario Draghi , signalled the economic
outlook for the euro area has improved, saying it “remains
subject to high uncertainty and downside risks,” compared with
last month, when he said it was subject to “substantial”
downside risk.  Daimler advanced 4.6 percent to 46.68 euros as demand for
the revamped M-Class sport-utility vehicle boosted profit.
Earnings before interest and taxes climbed to 2.18 billion euros
($2.9 billion) from 1.56 billion euros a year earlier, the
Stuttgart, Germany-based company said. That compared with the
2.17 billion-euro average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Daimler proposed a dividend of 2.20 euros for 2011,
higher than the previous year’s 1.85 euros.  Good Dividend  “The dividend is surprisingly good and higher than the
market was expecting,” said Albrecht Denninghoff, a Frankfurt-
based analyst with Silvia Quandt Research. “The figures are in
line, while the outlook is cautious. We’re staying with our buy
recommendation.”  BMW, the world’s biggest maker of luxury cars, gained 3.7
percent to 71.54 euros and Volkswagen rose 2.1 percent to 144.60
euros.  Commerzbank soared 3.3 percent to 2.17 euros, climbing for
a third day.  E.ON AG declined 2.2 percent. The energy company was
downgraded to “hold” from “buy” at Baader Bank with the 12-
month target price at 18 euros a share. RWE AG declined 1.3
percent to 32.10 euros.  Germany ’s second-largest utility plans
to put its Net4Gas unit in the  Czech Republic  for sale this
year, spokesman Martin Chalupsky said in an e-mailed message.
Net4Gas operates a network of gas pipelines in the Czech
Republic, which is an important transit country in  Europe .  Deutsche Boerse AG declined 2.1 percent to 48.96 euros. The
U.S.  Justice Department  said it dismissed an antitrust lawsuit
and proposed a settlement agreement with Deutsche Boerse AG and
NYSE Euronext because the two exchange owners have abandoned
their proposed merger.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konstantin Riffler in Frankfurt at 
 kriffler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  