-- Glencore Price for Xstrata Seen Rising Amid Threatened No Votes: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e ,   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-02-09T04:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/glencore-price-for-xstrata-seen-rising-amid-threatened-no-votes-real-m-a.html
To complete the mining industry’s
biggest takeover, Glencore International Plc may need to double
the premium it agreed to pay  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ’s owners.  Standard Life Plc (SL/)  and Schroders Plc, two of Xstrata’s
biggest shareholders, have already said they would vote against
the merger if Glencore didn’t boost its all-stock agreement.
Glencore, which owns 34 percent of Xstrata, offered 2.8 shares
for each one of Xstrata’s this week. That ratio represents an 8
percent premium, the second-lowest for any mining deal worth
more than $5 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Glencore can afford to offer at least 3 shares, increasing
the takeover premium for Xstrata to 16 percent, and still add to
earnings, according to Jefferies Group Inc. While Xstrata Chief
Executive Officer  Mick Davis  says a majority of shareholders
he’s spoken to back the $37.6 billion “merger of equals,”
RidgeWorth Capital Management Inc. says the deal to create the
world’s largest producer of zinc, lead and coal used in power
stations undervalues Xstrata by at least 20 percent.  “Xstrata is a prized asset,” Chad Deakins, an Atlanta-
based international-equity  fund manager  for RidgeWorth, which
oversees $47 billion including shares of Xstrata, said in a
telephone interview. “To our view, they’re not offering much of
a premium at all. They’re underpaying.”  Claire Divver, a spokeswoman at Xstrata, declined to
comment on whether the merger agreement undervalued the Zug,
Switzerland-based company.  Simon Buerk , a spokesman for Glencore
of Baar,  Switzerland , didn’t immediately respond to telephone
calls and e-mails sent outside normal business hours.  Acquisition Detail  Glencore said on Feb. 7 it had agreed to buy Xstrata in an
all-stock deal currently valued at 23.8 billion pounds ($37.6
billion). The merger would create a business with $209 billion 
in sales by combining the largest publicly traded commodities
supplier with the biggest exporter of  thermal coal .  The new entity will also become one of the five biggest
suppliers of copper and nickel, UBS AG said.  The deal brings together two groups that separated a decade
ago when Xstrata bought Glencore’s Australian and South African
coal mines for $2.5 billion and went public in  London . The
companies, which are located about two miles (3.2 kilometers)
apart in Switzerland, will be known as Glencore Xstrata
International Plc after the merger.  The share-swap ratio of 2.8 valued Xstrata at about
1,155.85 pence each, based on Glencore’s average price in the 20
days before news of the deal emerged on Feb. 2, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s about 8 percent higher than
the average price for Xstrata’s shares in the same span.  Shareholder Value  The premium narrows to 7.2 percent when comparing the
companies’ share prices in the 20 days prior to the official
announcement on Feb. 7, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s
less than the average 30 percent premium for all mining deals
valued at more than $5 billion since at least 1999.  Glencore won’t be allowed to vote its 34.1 percent  holding 
in Xstrata on the merger, according to the U.K.’s takeover code,
putting the final decision into the hands of the shareholders
who control the rest of the company.  That means 16.48 percent of Xstrata’s  shareholders  hold the
power to block the deal. Edinburgh-based Standard Life and
 Schroders (SDR)  of London, who together hold more than 3 percent, say
the proposed exchange ratio undervalues the company.  “Although we see some merit in the merger of Xstrata and
Glencore, the proposed exchange ratio clearly undervalues
Xstrata’s assets and future earnings contribution,”  David Cumming , head of equities at Standard Life Investments, said in
an e-mailed response to questions.  ‘No Doubt’  “It is our intention to vote against the deal unless the
merger terms for Xstrata shareholders are materially improved,”
he wrote.  Richard Buxton , the head of U.K. equities at Schroders,
also intends to vote the deal down, according to Estelle Bibby,
a spokeswoman for the company.  To prevent Xstrata’s shareholders from rejecting the
transaction, Glencore may have to raise its bid to at least 3
shares, according to  Keith Moore , an event-driven strategist at
MKM Partners in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . Boosting the offer from
2.8 shares would still allow the combined company to add to
earnings, Christopher LaFemina, an analyst at Jefferies, said in
a report to clients dated yesterday.  “There’s no doubt in my mind that doing an 8 percent
premium on this deal isn’t going to fly with shareholders,”
MKM’s Moore said in a telephone interview.  Controlling Interest  Glencore could increase the ratio to 3.5 shares and still
maintain a controlling interest in the combined entity that the
companies say stands to add at least $500 million to earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the
first year, according to Sachin Shah, a merger arbitrage
strategist at Tullett Prebon Plc in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey .  The current offer valued Xstrata at 6.2 times its Ebitda,
the fourth-lowest multiple for a mining takeover greater than $5
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “You get zero if this deal doesn’t go through -- for you
to give up a little more interest and still have a controlling
stake over the minority shareholders, why wouldn’t you want to
do that?” Shah said in a telephone interview. “You would still
be reaping the majority of the benefits.”  Yemi Oshodi, managing director of M&A and special
situations trading at New York-based WallachBeth Capital LLC,
says that Glencore may be reluctant to pay a premium for Xstrata
because the companies have similar valuations and the deal was
announced as a “merger of equals.”  Deal Logic  Glencore’s stock was  valued  at about 9.4 times analysts’
earnings estimates for the company this year, versus Xstrata’s
 multiple  of 9.7 times earnings, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Under the merger plan, Xstrata’s Davis, 53, will lead the
combined company. Ivan Glasenberg, Glencore’s 55-year-old CEO,
will be deputy CEO and president. The chairmanship and chief
financial officer posts will also go to Xstrata’s  John Bond  and
Trevor Reid. The board will include Davis, Glasenberg and four
non-executive directors from each side of the deal.  “I’ve spoken to quite a few shareholders before we
announced the deal,” Davis said in a conference call with U.S.
analysts and investors. “The majority of the shareholders I
spoke to were clearly behind the logic of the deal.”  Analysts still say that Xstrata may be  worth more  than the
deal offer, which is currently valued at 1,216 pence. They
estimate that the company’s shares may reach 1,343 pence in the
next 12 months, estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Xstrata is worth as much as 1,500 pence a share in a
takeover, according to RidgeWorth’s Deakins. That would still be
less than its  high  of 1,550 pence in the last 12 months.  “If Glencore does choose to bump their offer to 3, they
have a much better chance of closing,” Jefferies’ LaFemina said
in a telephone interview. “Xstrata shareholders should be
getting a premium to what they are being offered.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at +1-212-617-3143 or  scasey4@bloomberg.net . 