-- Goldman Sachs Kept Almost All of Mortgage Bonds Bought From Fed, Data Show
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-02-09T21:20:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/goldman-sachs-retained-most-of-fed-s-mortgage-bonds-it-bought-data-show.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  held on to
almost all of the $6.2 billion in face value of mortgage bonds
that the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  sold the company
yesterday, based on data from Trace, the transaction reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Customers bought $961 million of speculative-grade  home-
loan bonds  from dealers yesterday while selling $6.9 billion,
according to the  data . Trading of investment-grade debt totaled
$385 million, while dealers traded about $45 million of both
types of bonds among themselves, the data show.  “It certainly looks like they’re willing to provide
liquidity to the market by bidding for their own account,” said
Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “It’s a little bit of shift,” after
a period in which dealers reduced their  inventories , he said.  Goldman Sachs , the most profitable securities firm in Wall
Street history before converting to a bank in 2008, won an
auction of bonds assumed in the U.S. central bank’s rescue of
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  after the New York Fed put the
pool out for competitive bidding following an offer from  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the New York Fed said yesterday in a statement.  The weighted average price of non-investment grade, or
junk, securities traded yesterday was 57.8 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace data. High-yield, or junk, bonds are rated
lower than Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and below BBB- by
 Standard & Poor’s .  On Jan. 19, when Credit Suisse won the New York Fed’s last
auction of bonds from its AIG-tied Maiden Lane II vehicle,
customers bought $4.7 billion of home-loan bonds with junk
ratings from dealers and sold $6.7 billion, the data showed. The
central bank sold $7 billion of securities that day.  “Our intention has always been to distribute the portfolio
to our clients globally and we are in the midst of doing that,”
 Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs,
said today in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  