-- Goldman Sachs Faces Conflict Claims in El Paso Buyout Hearing
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-02-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/goldman-sachs-faces-conflict-claims-in-el-paso-buyout-hearing.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, will face claims in court that it
had conflicting interests when it advised El Paso Corp. in its
$21.1 billion buyout by oil-pipeline operator  Kinder Morgan Inc. (KMI)   Delaware  Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine will hear
arguments in Wilmington today from El Paso shareholders that
Kinder Morgan’s $25.91-a-share bid for the pipeline company
should be put on hold so other potential offers can be pursued.
The original offer was tainted by Goldman Sachs’s conflicting
roles in the deal, lawyers for pension funds and other investors
said in court filings.  “This case presents a rare combination of deliberate
indifference to an adviser’s flagrant conflicts with the soft
but powerful harm from undisclosed management conflicts,”
lawyers for the investors said in a Feb. 3 filing.  Goldman Sachs’s business practices have been criticized
over the past two years after the New York-based company agreed
to pay $550 million to resolve government claims that marketing
materials about investments linked to subprime mortgages had
“incomplete information.”  It was the largest penalty ever levied by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission against a Wall Street firm.
Goldman Sachs also faced questions from politicians and labor
unions about its compensation system after getting taxpayer aid
during the financial crisis.  “Given all the bad press Goldman has gotten recently, it
might have been better if they’d taken a pass on serving as an
adviser in this deal,” said  Charles Elson , a finance professor
at the  University of Delaware  who runs the school’s Weinberg
Center for  Corporate Governance .  ‘Reasonable Measures’  Lawyers for Goldman Sachs and El Paso countered in their
court filings that the investment bank took “reasonable
measures” to deal with potential conflicts and Goldman’s
advisers didn’t compromise El Paso directors’ consideration of
the buyout proposal.  Lawyers for a Louisiana pension fund contend Goldman Sachs
has long-standing ties to Kinder Morgan, helping  Richard Kinder ,
the firm’s chief executive officer, take the Houston-based
pipeline operator private in 2006.  Goldman Sachs wound up with a 19 percent stake in Kinder
Morgan and has its designees in two of the company’s board
seats, the fund’s lawyers say. The investment bank then reaped
millions of dollars by leading  Kinder Morgan ’s initial public
offering in 2011, they said.  Didn’t Provide Enough  Goldman Sachs also had advised El Paso over the years, the
investors’ lawyers said. When Kinder approached the rival
pipeline company about a buyout last year, El Paso executives
called in Goldman Sachs as an adviser.  El Paso’s board ultimately agreed to Kinder’s $25.91-a-
share bid, which includes both cash and stock, and provides a 37
premium to shareholders, officials for the company said last
year. Investors contend the offer didn’t provide enough for
their El Paso shares.  “Goldman’s staggering conflict of interest was obvious
from the outset: With a stake in KMI worth over $4 billion,
every dollar shaved off the buyout price presented approximately
$150 million of savings for Goldman,” the investors’ lawyers
said in the filing.  Investors’ lawyers contend Goldman Sachs officials
convinced El Paso directors that Kinder Morgan’s bid was the
best option and downplayed advantages of continuing independent
operations or spinning off parts of the company.  ‘Eyes Wide Open’  In their court filings, Goldman Sachs officials counter the
bank took steps to deal with any potential conflict, including
having Goldman directors on Kinder Morgan’s board recuse
themselves from considering the deal.  The bank also made sure El Paso officials were aware of
Goldman Sachs’s stake in Kinder Morgan and that they brought the
firm’s advisers in “with their eyes wide open,” lawyers for
Goldman Sachs said in their Jan. 26 filing.  El Paso also had Goldman Sachs’s advice double-checked by
executives of  Morgan Stanley & Co ., which served as a second
adviser in the deal, Goldman Sachs’s lawyers said.  Still, El Paso’s decision to bring Goldman Sachs in as an
adviser drew the ire of Morgan Stanley executives, court filings
show.  Steve Munger, a Morgan Stanley banker, said in an e-mail
that Goldman Sachs had an “enormous conflict” in the case and
that the investment bank’s decision to serve as one of El Paso’s
advisers was “GS at its most shameless,” investors’ lawyers
said in their filing.  Both Sides  Goldman Sachs’s attorneys said that investors’ lawyers
portrayed the bank as a wrongdoer simply because it had
relationships with both sides of a buyout.  “Every piece of Goldman Sachs’s advice is painted in the
most dastardly terms, allegedly motivated by rapacious and crude
objectives,” the firm’s lawyers said.  Strine will have to decide whether the efforts of Goldman
Sachs and El Paso to ensure potential conflicts didn’t taint
consideration of Kinder Morgan’s offer inoculated the firms from
liability, said Larry Hamermesh, a professor at  Widener
University (78130MF) ’s law school in Wilmington who specializes in
corporate law.  Del Monte Case  “If a board is fully aware an adviser has a conflict, and
decides to look past that and hire them anyway, I don’t see much
problem with that,” Hamermesh said.  El Paso investors are hoping Strine will take note of a
colleague’s recent finding that  Barclays Plc (BARC)  executives had a
conflict when they served as a financial adviser to  Del Monte
Foods Co. (DLM)  in a buyout by private-equity firms led by  KKR & Co.   Chancery Judge Travis Laster found Barclays officials had a
conflict because they provided some of the financing to the
private-equity firms buying the maker of Meow Mix cat food and
Milk Bone dog biscuits.  The judge put the deal on hold until the company could make
more disclosures about Barclay’s role in the acquisition.  Del
Monte  and Barclays later agreed to pay $89.4 million to settle
investor suits over the buyout that cited the conflict.  “I think this Goldman case is being driven by the idea
that these conflict cases in Chancery are hot right now,”
Hamermesh said.  The case is In re  El Paso Corp. (EP)  Shareholder Litigation,
Consolidated 6949-CS, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  