-- Goldman Sachs Voice Shows This Time Different in Transition to Technocrats
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-02-09T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/goldman-sachs-voice-shows-this-time-different-in-transition-to-technocrats.html
Lucas  van Praag ’s departure after 12
years as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s chief spokesman and the
possible hiring of a former U.S. Treasury Department aide to
replace him signal that Wall Street is ready to change its tone.  Van Praag, whose retirement was announced in an internal
memo yesterday, had a taste for dismissing negative press
reports about New York-based Goldman Sachs as “chimera produced
by a febrile mind” and “effluent.” The 62-year-old British
citizen’s style was described in a New York Observer  profile  as
“basically a stiffly extended middle finger.”  That may have suited the pre-2008 era, when Goldman Sachs
was still the most profitable securities firm in Wall Street
history and its employees the most richly rewarded. After an
economic collapse, taxpayer bailout, anti-Wall Street protests
and declining profits and pay, the entire industry has to find a
new approach, said Mark Arena, a former spokesman for Zurich-
based  UBS AG (UBSN)  who rates public relations efforts on
 prverdict.com .  “It’s far bigger than Goldman Sachs, it’s really a whole
shift in the way the industry is viewed,” Arena said in a
telephone interview. “The perception that they’re the smartest
people in the room has faded.”  Arena, who worked at UBS,  Switzerland ’s largest bank, for
14 years and ran communications in the Americas before leaving
18 months ago, said Wall Street had become accustomed to being a
“glamour industry” thanks to its high pay and complexity.
Bankers and traders have been slow to recognize that the press
and public are no longer willing to accept Wall Street’s views
without question.  Listening Mode  “A PR strategy that basically says, ‘If you don’t
understand it you’re an idiot,’ that only works when markets are
going very high,” he said. “But when suddenly the industry was
having to be bailed out and there are all sorts of regulatory
problems, then the mood needs to change and you need to be much
more in listening mode, conciliatory mode, explanatory mode.”  Goldman Sachs, led since mid-2006 by Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, 57, has had an especially
hard time adapting. As a private partnership until 1999, the
firm’s employees were warned to avoid media attention. By 2007,
Goldman Sachs’s industry-leading profits -- and Blankfein’s
record-setting $67.9 million bonus -- gave the firm an aura of
invincibility.  That was stripped away in 2008 when the firm converted to a
bank one week after smaller rival Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s bankruptcy and accepted a $10 billion rescue from the
Treasury Department -- led at the time by  Henry Paulson ,
Blankfein’s predecessor at Goldman Sachs.  ‘God’s Work’  Rolling Stone writer Matt Taibbi dubbed the firm “a great
vampire squid wrapped around the face of humanity” in a 2009
article. An interview Blankfein granted to  London ’s Sunday Times
that year backfired when the paper splashed his sarcastic quip
that the firm’s employees were doing “God’s work.”  Goldman Sachs’s image hit a low in April 2010 when the
Securities and Exchange Commission sued the firm for fraud,
alleging it misled investors about a mortgage-linked investment
sold in 2007. The company paid $550 million in July 2010 to
settle the charges, admitting only to making a “mistake” in
marketing materials.  “Wall Street never had a lot of really bad press after
World War II until the present period,” said  Charles Geisst , a
finance professor at  Manhattan College  in Riverdale, New York,
who has written about the history of Wall Street. Now Goldman
Sachs is “the most maligned financial institution in this
country and probably will remain so for a very long time.”  Considering Siewert  Goldman Sachs is considering replacing van Praag by hiring
Richard L. “Jake” Siewert Jr., a 48-year-old former aide to
Democrats including Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and
former President  Bill Clinton , people familiar with the matter
said last week.  Siewert, who hasn’t been hired yet, has the career of a
Washington policy technocrat compared with the drama of van
Praag’s. The Goldman Sachs spokesman joined the British Navy
after being kicked out of boarding school, worked on an oil rig
and spent a decade at  Bankers Trust  where he arranged ship
finance, sold currency swaps and used his French and Dutch
language skills during a stint in Brussels.  Siewert is a graduate of  Yale University  and the  University
of California  at Berkeley’s law school. He started his
Washington career as communications director for the Democratic
Governors Association before working for  Gene Sperling  at the
National Economic Council during the Clinton administration.  President’s Press Secretary  He worked his way up in Clinton’s communications
department, eventually succeeding Joe Lockhart as the main press
secretary in the last few months of the presidency. At age 37 he
joined Pittsburgh-based Alcoa Inc., the largest aluminum
company, and managed corporate development and public strategy
before joining Geithner at Treasury in 2009.  David Wells , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in  New York ,
declined to comment. Van Praag didn’t immediately reply to an
e-mail seeking comment.  William Cohan, a Bloomberg View columnist who interviewed
Siewert last year, said he seemed “very open and honest and
frank.” Cohan, whose book “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs
Came to Rule the World” was published last year, said Siewert
seems “more like a regular guy” than van Praag.  “I do sense a little that because of Lucas’s demeanor, the
way he was brought up, that he might have seemed arrogant and
condescending,” said Cohan, who said he himself found van Praag
“warm and charming.”  He doubts that the public perception of Goldman Sachs will
change as long as Blankfein is running the firm and economic
distress and regulatory change limits revenue.  Paradigm Shift  “They think that they’re just a few innings away from the
status quo being restored but actually is there something else
going on, is there a real paradigm shift going on?” Cohan said.  Even as Goldman Sachs was distributing a memo to employees
yesterday about van Praag’s retirement at the end of March,
Chief Financial Officer David A. Viniar was telling investors at
a conference in Miami that the company’s declining  profit  was a
temporary setback similar to the 2001 downturn.  During the question-and-answer session, one man -- who
described himself as a Goldman Sachs competitor and observer for
more than 40 years -- asked Viniar what  Wall Street  can do
differently to get its “collective voice” heard again.  Acknowledging that “it’s a hard question,” Viniar said
that time has to pass and the economy has to improve. In its
contacts with regulators about new rules, Goldman Sachs is
trying to emphasize what will help markets and the economy and
to talk less about what will be good for the industry, he said.  Good for Business  “We need to convince people that’s really what we care
about, and obviously, those things will be good for our
business,” said Viniar, 56. “We have to make sure that those
things are more aligned than many had thought they were aligned
in the past.”  To succeed, Wall Street has to find a new voice in an era
where “people are less interested in what they have to say and
question their motives all the time,” said Arena, the former
UBS spokesman.  “Even if the message from the firm doesn’t change,
sometimes all that’s needed is a shift in tone,” he said. “A
tone that seems appeasing rather than instructive, that’s more
conciliatory rather than didactic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 