-- Google Testing Wireless Entertainment Device for Consumers, Filing Shows
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k ,   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-02-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/google-tests-consumer-wireless-entertainment-device-filing-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s largest
Internet-search company, is developing an entertainment device
that will rely on wireless home networks, according to a filing
with the  Federal Communications Commission .  The testing is slated to take place in  Mountain View ,
 California , where Google is based, along with three other
cities, according to the filing. Google’s testing of 252 devices
was scheduled to begin in January and continue to July.  “Google is developing an entertainment device that
requires testing outside the laboratory environment,” according
to the filing. “The device is in the prototyping phase and will
be modified prior to final compliance testing.”  The company is weighing a deeper push into consumer
electronics as a way to lessen its dependence on search-related
advertising for growth. Google expanded into mobile software
with its Android operating system, which runs on smartphones and
tablets. It also  unveiled  an initiative in May called
“Android@Home” that lets Android applications “discover,
connect and communicate” with devices in the home.  At the Google I/O conference last year, the company
demonstrated Android@Home hub devices that played music. The
company is providing more entertainment content as well. In
November, it introduced a music service that lets people buy
songs through the Android Market.  Google declined to comment on the wireless tests. The
project was previously reported by the GigaOM technology blog.  Targeting Apple?  The Google device in the filing could step up competition
with Cupertino, California-based  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Sonos Inc., a
 Santa Barbara , California-based company. Both rivals offer
devices that use wireless networks to  transmit music  throughout
the house.  Google also is trying to broaden its horizons through the
$12.5 billion acquisition of  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI) , a
maker of handsets and set-top box devices that work with
televisions. That deal hasn’t yet closed.  Shares of the company were little changed yesterday,
closing at $611.46. The stock has fallen 5.3 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  