-- Google Plans First Retail Store at European Base in Dublin
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-02-09T16:52:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/google-plans-first-retail-store-at-europe-headquarters-building-in-dublin.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  plans its first stand-
alone retail store at its European headquarters in Dublin after
a trial at a computer shop in London, according to a filing by
the world’s most popular search engine.  The Google Store would be open to the public and sell
unspecified Google merchandise, the company’s Irish unit said in
a local planning application. Located in the Montevetro office
block on Dublin’s Barrow Street, the store would have about 123
square meters (1,323 square feet) of space including an added
mezzanine floor designed to draw attention from passersby.  Retail may be a new front in Google’s competition with
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) , whose 361 stores have fueled sales of iPods, iPhones
and iPad tablet computers. Google, the world’s biggest maker of
smartphone operating software, is in the process of buying
handset maker Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. for $12.5 billion
to help it compete with Apple’s phones and Microsoft Corp.’s
mobile software.  “We’ve not made any decisions, it’s simply a planning
application,” the  Mountain View , California-based company said
today by e-mail. Google already has an online store selling
merchandise such as t-shirts and pens, it said.  Google opened a store inside a London branch of Currys and
PC World, units of Dixons Retail Plc, as a trial for selling
 laptop computers  running the company’s Chromebook operating
system, the Daily Telegraph newspaper reported in October.  Google Logo  Google has a store selling products with a Google logo at
its headquarters in  California , which isn’t open to the public.
The company also offers merchandise at  www.googlestore.com ,
featuring merchandise such as baby bibs and notebooks with the
logo.  The planning application, prepared by consultants John
Spain Associates for Google Ireland Inc., was approved by Dublin
City Council on Jan. 23. The document also describes a staff
swimming pool in an area designed for use as a restaurant.  Google plans to add a 53-square-meter mezzanine floor to
the store space for use by “business partners and
contributors” who visit and don’t need full access to the
building, according to the document. “The unit will be clearly
visible from the public street and will create additional
interest and animation,” Google said in the filing.  The Dublin office is Google’s largest location outside of
the U.S., according to the filing. Google bought the two
buildings that make up its existing headquarters in March for an
undisclosed price. It also leases space at two other properties
in the area. It purchased the Montevetro site in April for about
100 million euros ($133 million) from Real Estate Opportunities
Plc.  Dublin Expansion  Google will have more than 3,000 employees in the Dublin
area after it expands into the building and refurbishes its
existing headquarters across the street, according to the
document.  The European Commission, the EU’s antitrust arm, will rule
on the Motorola Mobility deal by Feb. 13 and can either clear it
or open an in-depth probe. Mobile phone subscriptions in Ireland
increased to 5.4 million through June, up from 5.27 million in
the previous quarter, according to the government’s Commission
for Communications Regulation. The population was 4.58 million
last year, according to census figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  in Berlin at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 