-- Google, Amazon.com Win Trial Over Interactive Web Patents
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   D e n n i s   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-02-09T22:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/google-amazon-com-win-jury-trial-over-interactive-web-patents.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  were
among the companies that won a jury trial that challenged the
validity of patents of a Texas business on ways to make the
Internet more interactive.  A federal jury in Tyler, Texas, said two patents owned by
Eolas Technologies Inc. of Tyler are invalid. Adobe Systems
Inc., CDW Corp., JCPenney Co., Staples Inc.,  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and
Google’s YouTube unit were also challenging the patents.  Eolas and the University of California, which co-owns the
patents because they stem from work by Michael Doyle, the Eolas
founder and a former university researcher, claimed some basic
Internet features used their technology, including music clips,
search features, maps, advertisements and embedded applications.  More than a dozen companies had been named in the 2009
lawsuit.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Citigroup Inc. EBay Inc. and Playboy
Enterprises Inc. were among companies that settled before trial.  The case was to have been tried in phases before U.S.
District Judge Leonard Davis, with the first looking at the
validity of the two patents, and then subsequent trials on
infringement and damages by groups of companies. Today’s verdict
eliminates the need for those later trials.  “We’re disappointed, but we respect the jury’s decision,”
said Douglas Cawley of McKool Smith in Dallas, a lawyer for
Eolas. “We will evaluate our options.”  Case Testimony  The verdict “affirms our assertion that the claims are
without merit,” said Jim Prosser, a spokesman for  Mountain
View , California-based Google.  Testifying in the case were British computer scientist Tim Berners-Lee, credited with inventing the World Wide Web, and
Pei-Yuan Wei, who developed an early web browser called Viola
before Doyle,  according  to Wired magazine.  Eolas, then based in the Chicago area, had won a $521
million verdict against Microsoft Corp. in 2003, only to have it
thrown out because the trial judge refused to let Microsoft
present evidence about Viola to challenge the validity of
Doyle’s first patent. The two sides settled the dispute in 2007.  The case is Eolas Technologies Inc. v.  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) ,
09cv446, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas
(Tyler).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susan Decker  in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Dennis Robertson in Marshall, Texas.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  