-- Greece Delivers Austerity Accord to Win Approval for Bailout
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s   a n d   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 2012-02-09T16:59:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/greek-politicians-reach-agreement-on-austerity-steps-for-aid-draghi-says.html
Greek political leaders announced
agreement on austerity measures, clearing the way for a deal to
cut the nation’s debt and win its second rescue in two years.  “Discussions between the Greek government and the troika
were successfully completed this morning,” Greek Prime Minister
 Lucas Papademos ’s office said in an e-mailed statement today in
Athens. “Political leaders have agreed with the result of those
negotiations. Therefore there is a general agreement in the
context of the new program ahead of tonight’s euro group
meeting.” The statement didn’t include any details.  The accord came after Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos arrived in Brussels for an emergency meeting of euro-
region finance ministers to discuss the 130 billion-euro ($173
billion) lifeline and a debt swap that will impose a loss of
about 70 percent for investors.  “Some key pieces are falling into place,”  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg Bank in  London , said in
an e-mailed note before the decision was announced. “Barring
any last minute hitch,  Europe  may soon have defused the Greek
issue for a while.”  Greece faces a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March 20
and is struggling to secure financing to avert a collapse of the
economy that could spark a new round of euro-area contagion.  Stocks, Euro Rise  The euro increased 0.3 percent to a two-month high of
$1.3302 as of 11:05 a.m. in  New York . The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index 
advanced 0.2 percent to 263.58 at 4:30 p.m. in London. The
benchmark measure has rallied 23 percent from last year’s low
and 7.8 percent this year on mounting optimism that euro-area
policy makers will contain the region’s debt crisis.  Christos Protopapas, a spokesman for the Pasok socialist
party, said parliament will vote on the accord in two steps
starting this weekend.  “The Greek Parliament will convene to vote on an agreement
on the private sector involvement, bank recapitalization and
authority for the prime minister and finance minister to sign
the new memorandum at the weekend,” Protopapas told reporters
today. “The implementation law, which will include the new
measures, will be voted on in the next 10 to 15 days.”  Pension Cut Discord  Talks over austerity measure between Papademos, who is the
interim prime minister, and the so-called troika -- the European
Commission,  European Central Bank  and  International Monetary
Fund  -- had stalled over 300 million euros of pension cuts.  Greek Deputy Labor and Social Security Minister Yiannis Koutsoukos resigned in protest over the austerity measures,
according to a statement sent from the Pasok socialist party
member’s office.  Creditors met in Paris today over a deal in which they
would accept an average coupon of as low as 3.6 percent on new
30-year bonds in the exchange. The aim of the transaction is to
reduce the country’s debt burden to 120 percent of gross
domestic product by 2020 from 160 percent last year.  A formal offer for the debt swap must be made by Feb. 13 to
allow all procedures to be completed before the March 20 bond
comes due, Venizelos has said. The tussle in  Athens  threatened
to hold up the debt swap that will slice 100 billion euros off
more than 200 billion euros of privately-held debt.  ECB Rates Unchanged  The European Central Bank today left the benchmark  interest
rate  at a record low of 1 percent.  ECB President  Mario Draghi , speaking to reporters in
 Frankfurt , declined to comment on whether the ECB will use its
own Greek bond holdings in any swap to help alleviate the
nation’s debt burden. “I cannot say anything on how our
holdings of Greek bonds will be treated,” he said.  A Greek decision has hung in the balance for almost a week
as lenders demanded officials sign on to measures ranging from a
reduction in the minimum wage and lower pensions, to immediate
job cuts for as many as 15,000 state employees.  Greece’s unemployment rate in November rose to 20.9 percent
from 18.2 percent in the previous month, according to an e-
mailed statement from the Athens-based Hellenic Statistical
Authority today.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s biggest mobile-phone
company, is moving cash from Greece into the U.K. “every
evening,” mirroring efforts by others companies such as
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (SAN)  and  WPP Plc (WPP)  to hedge against the European
debt crisis, Chief Financial Officer Andy Halford said on a
conference call today.  Greek Creditors Meet  The  Institute of International Finance  held the meeting of
private Greek creditors in Paris today to go over technical
matters so the debt swap could be implemented quickly if an
accord between Greece and troika was reached, two people
familiar with the matter who declined to be identified because
talks are private, said before the discussions.  While the prime minister and party chiefs have agreed to
make further cuts this year equal to 1.5 percent of gross
domestic product, political leaders are worried about the effect
on voters of further cuts in wages and pensions ahead of
elections due as early as April. Unions, which went on strike
this week, have derided the conditions as “blackmail.”  Greece  will pledge permanent spending cuts, including lower
pension payments and a 20 percent reduction in the minimum wage,
as the economy contracts this year at a faster pace than
originally estimated, according to the draft of the agreement
discussed at the meeting with party heads, and obtained by
Bloomberg News.  The troika argues such moves are needed to boost
competitiveness. Those opposed say the cuts would deepen the
country’s recession, now in its fifth year.  Greece’s private-sector union GSEE has called a 48-hour
strike beginning tomorrow, according to an e-mailed statement,
sent from the Athens-based union. ADEDY, the public-sector
union, is also participating in the 48-hour strike, union
spokeswoman Despina Spanou said by telephone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  