-- Greece’s November Unemployment Rate Increases to 20.9%
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-02-09T12:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/greece-s-november-unemployment-rate-increases-to-20-9-1-.html
Greece ’s  unemployment rate  rose in
November to a record high, while declining industrial production
in December indicated a deepening economic contraction in the
final quarter.  The unemployment rate rose to 20.9 percent, from 18.2
percent the previous month, the  Hellenic Statistical Authority 
said today in an e-mailed statement. The November rate was the
highest since the data series began in 2004. Industrial output
fell 11.3 percent in December from a year earlier, according to
a separate statement.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  and leaders of the
three political parties supporting his interim government have
been negotiating on measures ranging from a reduction in the
minimum wage and lower pensions to immediate public-sector job
cuts. The measures have been demanded in return for a European
Union-led 130 billion-euro ($173 billion) bailout package.  Further financing may be needed, as the economy shrinks
more rapidly than originally estimated. The draft of a new
financing deal between Greece, the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund , obtained by Bloomberg News,
predicts a contraction of 4 percent to 5 percent this year, in
part because of a worsening external environment. That compares
with a forecast of 3 percent contained in a December report on
Greece by the IMF.  November unemployment among those under 24 was 48 percent,
up from 35.6 percent in the year-earlier month. The highest
regional rate was 23.8 percent in Macedonia-Thrace, in northern
Greece. Unemployment in the Attica region, which includes
Athens, was 21.1 percent, up from 13.9 percent a year earlier.  Greece’s consumer price index was 2.3 percent higher in
January than a year earlier, compared with 2.2 percent in
December, the statistical authority said in a separate
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in  Athens  at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  