-- Germany Says Greece Missing Debt Targets in Fresh Aid Rebuff
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-02-10T10:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/greece-rebuffed-on-aid-package-as-austerity-vote-raises-risk-of-euro-exit.html
Greece  is missing its debt-cutting
targets, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told
lawmakers today, intensifying pressure on Greek politicians to
deliver on austerity promises.  Schaeuble said in Berlin that Greece’s plans would leave 
its debt as high as 136 percent of gross domestic product by 
2020, according to two people who took part in the meeting and 
who spoke on condition of anonymity because it was private.
That compares with the 120 percent foreseen in a 130 billion-
euro ($172 billion) bailout being negotiated.  Signs that Greece is falling short underscored euro-area
officials’ frustration with the country’s bickering leaders and
the prospect that they may again backtrack on fiscal pledges not
first passed into law. Greek lawmakers begin voting on austerity
measures this weekend after European finance ministers last
night held back the rescue package demanding further commitments
from  Athens .  “The Greek offer is not sufficient and they have to go
away to come up with a revised plan,”  Bertrand Benoit , a
spokesman for the German Finance Ministry in Berlin, said by
telephone today.  The emergency talks of finance chiefs broke up late last
night with Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  saying
Greece must turn its latest budget-cutting plan into law, flesh
out 325 million euros in spending reductions and have its major
party leaders sign up to the program so they don’t retreat after
upcoming elections.  Juncker’s Condition  “In short: no disbursement without implementation,”
Juncker said. He set another extraordinary meeting for Feb. 15.
“We can’t live with this system while promises are repeated and
repeated and repeated and implementation measures are sometimes
too weak,” he said.  The impasse left European stocks falling for the fourth
time in five days and the euro declining from yesterday’s two-
month high against the dollar.  Facing general strikes and mounting opposition to cuts in
wages, pensions and  government spending , Greek Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos said the parliamentary vote set to begin
this weekend amounted to a ballot on euro membership.  “If we see the salvation and future of the country in the
euro area, in Europe, we have to do whatever we have to do to
get the program approved,” Venizelos said in Brussels.  Resolution of the aid talks, which have dragged on since
July, would allow Greece to make a 14.5 billion-euro bond
payment on March 20 and contain the threat that speculators will
target debt-saddled nations including Italy and Portugal.  Default Risk  Fitch Ratings today reiterated its view that Greece will
default even with the rescue package.  Greece “must get this deal agreed really within the next
few days to enable them sufficient time and have the new bailout
money disbursed before that bond is due,” Tony Stringer,
Fitch’s managing director of global sovereigns, said in an
interview in  Singapore . “If they don’t manage to achieve that,
then it could be in the realm of a disorderly default.”  Europe’s hardline stance follows more than two years in
which Greece repeatedly failed to carry through promised reforms
to tackle its uncompetitive economy and meet the terms for aid.
Greece blamed its shortcomings on a deeper than first expected
slump which is now set to worsen with reports yesterday showing
unemployment jumping to 20.9 percent in November and industrial
production declining.  Greek Talks  Negotiations over another bailout began seven months ago
and Greece’s participation in the euro first came into question
when then-Prime Minister  George Papandreou  threatened in October
to hold a referendum on austerity.  In contrast to the approach to Greece,  Germany  may be
willing to study revising the terms of  Portugal ’s bailout,
Schaeuble told his Portuguese counterpart in Brussels in a
conversation picked up by Portuguese television.  Germany will “be ready” for an adjustment of the
Portuguese program if needed, Schaeuble told Finance Minister
Vitor Gaspar at the meeting yesterday.  The gathering, attended by International Monetary Fund
chief  Christine Lagarde  and  European Central Bank  President
 Mario Draghi , came hours after Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  and party chiefs ended a week of meetings with an
agreement on a package of fresh budget cuts.  Greece is seeking to reduce its debt to 120 percent of
gross domestic product by 2020 from 160 percent last year. The
latest measures are aimed at delivering budget reductions
totaling 1.5 percent of GDP this year and range from a 20
percent paring of the minimum wage to lower pension payments and
immediate job cuts for as many as 15,000 state workers.  ECB Pressure  With European officials signaling investors will soon
accept a debt swap that would impose losses of about 70 percent
of their Greek bond holdings, the European Central Bank came
under pressure to offer additional relief.  “The ECB must look, within the framework of its
independence, what sort of contribution it can make,” Juncker
said.  Draghi yesterday left open the possibility of passing up
some the profits on the Greek bonds the central bank bought
during the crisis. He nevertheless rejected selling them to
 Europe ’s temporary bailout fund at a loss because doing so would
amount to “monetary financing” of governments, which is banned
by European treaties.  Bondholders Meet  Bondholders met in Paris yesterday to discuss accepting an
average coupon of as low as 3.6 percent on new 30-year bonds in
the proposed debt swap. An agreement would slice 100 billion
euros off more than 200 billion euros of privately-held debt and
a formal offer must be made by Feb. 13 to allow all procedures
to be completed before the March 20 bond comes due.  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said the deal is “practically finalized.” The
 Institute of International Finance , which represents investors,
said it welcomed progress made by Greece and look forward to the
debt swap being completed next week.  “The Greeks understand that it’s not five minutes to
midnight but 30 seconds to midnight,” Luxembourg Finance
Minister Luc Frieden said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  