-- Greece Prepares to Raise Cash From Land on Corfu and Rhodes
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h   a n d   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2012-02-09T12:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/greece-prepares-to-raise-cash-from-land-on-corfu-and-rhodes.html
Greece  is preparing to raise money
from state land on the islands of Rhodes and Corfu as the
country seeks to generate at least 50 billion euros ($66.5
billion) from government assets.  “We are carrying out due diligence on a land plot of 1.5
million square meters on the island of Rhodes and a smaller plot
of about half a million square meters on Corfu,” said Andreas Taprantzis,  executive director  for real estate at the  Hellenic
Republic Asset Development Fund . “We hope to have tenders out
for their exploitation by the end of the first half.”  Greece, which is negotiating a second bailout deal with
creditors, pledged to reduce debt by raising taxes, cutting
spending and generating revenue from state assets after
receiving a 110 billion-euro bailout in 2010.  In December, the development fund started a public tender
process for a majority stake in  Hellinikon SA , the company with
the right to manage and develop  Athens ’s former international
airport under a long-term lease that covers 6.2 million square
meters (66.7 million square feet) of land.  The tender process for the island land will be similar to
the one used for Hellinikon, Taprantzis said.  Greece set a target of raising the 50 billion euros from
state assets by 2017. Taprantzis said real estate will account
for slightly more than half of the total and he expects to raise
that amount from property by 2020.  “Our work with real estate assets is primarily
transformational and that takes a lot of time,” Taprantzis
said. “The targets are challenging but perfectly feasible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Smyth in  Madrid  at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tugwell in Athens 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net . 