-- Groupon Hires Paul Taaffe to Improve the Online-Coupon Site’s Public Face
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-02-09T23:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/groupon-hires-pr-executive-taaffe-to-improve-coupon-website-s-public-face.html
Groupon Inc.  hired public-relations
executive Paul Taaffe to run communications for the daily-deal
site, which has had several publicity mishaps in the last year.  Taaffe, 50, was previously chairman and chief executive
officer of Hill & Knowlton, a unit of WPP Plc, before he
resigned from the post in January 2011.  Groupon has endured marketing gaffes in the last 12 months,
from controversial Super Bowl commercials to violations of the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s so-called quiet period
rules for public offerings. The company, which held an IPO in
November, is still learning how to communicate with the public,
Taaffe said in a telephone interview today.  “It’s a disruptive company and it’s one of the fastest-
growing companies on the planet,” said Taaffe. “I saw the
opportunity to help manage that growth and tell Groupon’s story
better.”  Taaffe succeeds Brad Williams, the veteran of  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and
Yahoo Inc. who last year became Groupon’s spokesman and stayed
just a few months before leaving.  After 20 years at a public-relations agency, Taaffe has
begun working with  Andrew Mason , the 31-year-old Groupon chief
executive officer and co-founder known for his office pranks and
an edgy sense of humor that has become part of the company’s
brand.  Groupon was faulted a year ago after airing Super Bowl
advertisements that critics said made light of repression in
 Tibet . Mason later apologized for the ads and had them pulled.  ‘Wildly Profitable’  Prior to the company’s public debut, Co-founder and
Chairman Eric Lefkofsky told Bloomberg News he expected the
company to become “wildly profitable.’’ That caught the
attention of the SEC, which limits what companies can say about
future prospects to potential investors between the time they
file for an IPO and when shares start trading. Groupon later
updated its filing to tell investors to disregard the comments.  Taaffe will work with Mason as the young CEO gains
experience running a publicly traded company, Taaffe said.  “I think he is incredibly talented and despite his still-
young age I think he has matured quickly,” Taaffe said.  Groupon agreed to let Taaffe remain in  New York  while
planning frequent visits to the company’s headquarters in
 Chicago  and technology operations in  Palo Alto ,  California , he
said.  Groupon fell 14 percent to $21.17 at the close in New York,
after it reported a fourth-quarter loss yesterday, excluding
certain costs, of 2 cents a share. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg had projected profit of 3 cents. The company had
priced its shares at $20 apiece in its November IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  