-- Libya Joins Venezuela Losing U.S. Embassy Trade Desk in Overhaul
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2012-02-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/libya-joins-venezuela-losing-u-s-embassy-trade-desk-in-overhaul.html
Trade desks at U.S. embassies in
seven countries from  Switzerland  to  Venezuela  will be scrapped
as the government moves employees to higher-priority markets in
the biggest overhaul since President Barack Obama took office.  Officers working to promote U.S. exports in Algeria,
Ecuador, Kazakhstan, Libya, Senegal, Switzerland and Venezuela
will be moved to higher-priority markets such as China, Brazil,
 Russia , Mexico, Turkey,  India  and  South Africa , according to the
Commerce Department.  “Our goal is to ensure that U.S. companies have the
support they need in markets with the greatest opportunity for
U.S. exports, and where demand for our services is
overwhelming,” Thomas Moore, a deputy assistant secretary with
the U.S. Commerce Department’s International Trade
Administration, said yesterday in an e-mail.  Seven officers and 40 local staff jobs will shift. The
moves will save $6.6 million based on fiscal year 2010 costs,
according to the Commerce Department.  The last comparable repositioning of the U.S. Commercial
Service took place under President George W. Bush in 2007 and
2008, when personnel in consulates were moved from developed
markets to faster-growing economies in  Asia ,  Africa  and South
America, according to the Commerce Department. The service has
staff in more than 100 U.S. cities and 75 countries helping U.S.
companies get started in exporting and expanding their markets.  Doubling Exports  The embassy changes will aid Obama’s drive to double
 exports  to $3.14 trillion by 2015 from $1.57 trillion in 2009,
according to the department. The agency plans to have officers
in neighboring countries provide services in the nations it’s
leaving, according to a Commerce Department official, who spoke
on the condition of anonymity. Some tasks may also be absorbed
by economic officers who deal with issues such as business and
finance laws, according to the agency.  Cutting staff in markets such as  Libya  will hurt the U.S.,
even if the trade off is adding staff in larger  emerging
markets , said Chuck Dittrich, vice president of regional trade
initiatives at the National Foreign Trade Council and executive
director of the U.S.-Libya Business Association in Washington.
Opportunities for U.S. companies in Libya, which holds the
largest oil reserves in Africa, are greater than ever after the
ouster of leader Muammar Qaddafi in October, he said.  Return on Investment  “It’s a really bad idea,” Dittrich, who served as chief
of staff to the director general of the commercial service
during the George H.W. Bush administration, said in an
interview. “It shouldn’t be a zero-sum game of reducing in one
country to put more in another. The value of these commercial
officers in a country has a huge return on the investment.”  Dittrich said the officers are often responsible for
writing research on opportunities in a market, helping find
distributors for American-made products and connecting U.S.
companies with trade fairs where they can attract customers.  The nine offices that will be closed in nations where
Commerce will keep at least one desk are in Melbourne,
 Australia ; Vancouver, Canada; Wuhan,  China ; Alexandria, Egypt;
Florence, Italy; Nagoya and Sapporo,  Japan ; Tijuana, Mexico; and
Vladivostok, Russia. Also closing is a multilateral development
bank office in Tunis, Tunisia.  Switzerland is the 16th-biggest U.S. export market and the
largest Commerce is exiting. The U.S. exported $22 billion in
goods to Switzerland last year through November, an 18 percent
increase from the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by the Commerce Department. The U.S. exported $11.2
billion to Venezuela and $5.5 billion to Ecuador.  The closing will hurt business development in Ecuador,
Cristian Espinosa, executive director of the Ecuadorean-American
Chamber of Commerce in Quito and the country’s former chief
trade negotiator with the U.S., said in a phone interview. The
Chamber was notified last week that the trade desk will close in
the third week of March, he said.  “We see this as an important loss,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  