-- Microsoft, Facebook, Ericsson, Lenova: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-02-09T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/microsoft-facebook-ericsson-motorola-intellectual-property.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the largest software
maker, said it would be “fair and reasonable” in licensing its
industry-standard technology, pledging to negotiate with
competitors instead of trying to block sales of their products.  Microsoft also will make its industry-essential patents
available without requiring companies to cross-license their own
non-essential technology, according to a posting yesterday on
the company’s website. The pledge comes as Google Inc. prepares
a similar promise to appease regulators scrutinizing its
acquisition of Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.  Motorola Mobility has sued Microsoft and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  for
infringing patents that are covered partly by standards in which
companies agree to share technology that is common across their
industry. Google, which has drawn scrutiny over the acquisition,
plans to send the letter to standards organizations reassuring
them it will license Motorola Mobility patents on fair terms,
according to two people with knowledge of the situation who
asked not to be named because the decision isn’t yet public.  Microsoft’s statement didn’t name any companies, and a
spokesman for the software maker,  Kevin Kutz , declined to
comment.  Jennifer Erickson , a spokeswoman for Libertyville,
Illinois-based Motorola Mobility, and Kristin Huguet of Apple
also wouldn’t comment. Jim Prosser, a spokesman for Google in
Mountain View, California, didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mail.  Motorola Mobility has sought sales bans in  Germany  on Apple
products using standard-essential patents, and is seeking to
halt U.S. imports of Microsoft’s Xbox gaming system.  Microsoft’s policy announced today doesn’t bar the company
from seeking bans on the use of patented technology that isn’t
part of an industry standard or from suing to demand
compensation for the use of the essential patents.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, sent a letter in
November to the European Telecommunications Standards Institute
saying the “industry suffers from a lack of consistent
adherence” to policies that require companies to license
standard-essential patents on “fair, reasonable and non-
discriminatory” terms.  In that letter, reported yesterday by the Wall Street
Journal, Apple said companies that pledge to license their
patents on fair terms can’t seek to prevent use of the
inventions without being in violation of their commitment.  Facebook CEO Won’t Have to Answer Questions in Patent Case  Facebook Inc. (FB)  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  won’t
have to give pretrial testimony in a patent-infringement lawsuit
filed by a mobile networking company.  U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel in  Manhattan  yesterday
denied a request by Wireless Ink Corp. to depose  Facebook  co-
founder Zuckerberg.  “If the CEO of Facebook has relevant knowledge not readily
available from other sources, Wireless Ink ought to be able to
establish this from documents produced in discovery or the
testimony of other employees of Facebook,” Castel said in his
order.  Wireless Ink, which operates the Winksite social networking
service, said in a complaint filed in 2010 that Facebook Mobile
and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Google Buzz infringed a patent related to ways
of offering content on mobile devices.  Facebook’s lawyers said in a letter to the judge that
Wireless Ink “has not identified any relevant knowledge that
Mr. Zuckerberg uniquely possesses that cannot be obtained from
other witnesses.”  Facebook, based in Menlo Park, California, is planning an
initial public offering of stock.  The case is Wireless Ink Corp. v. Facebook Inc., 10-01841,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  USPTO’s ‘Patents for Humanity’ Prize to Speed Up Office Process  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has set up a project
that will move some patent owners to the head of the line for
proceedings within the office if their patented technology has
been used for neglected humanitarian issues.  The  “Patent for Humanity” project , which will run for 12
months, is aimed at public health  or quality-of-life issues
affected the poor, the patent office said in a  statement 
yesterday.  Judges, drawn from academia in medicine, law science,
engineering, public policy or a related field, will consider
applications in four categories: medical, food and nutrition,
clean technology and information technology.  Winners will receive an “acceleration certificate” which
can move several different kinds of patent-office procedures to
the head of the line, including patent appeals and re-
examinations. The certificate can be used for one item in the
winner’s portfolio, regardless of whether it is related to the
humanitarian program.  The submission period for applications runs from March 1
through Aug. 31.  Copyright  Lenovo, Computer Makers Settle Case Over Green Dam Software  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  and other computer makers settled a
lawsuit brought by a California software maker who had claimed
the Green Dam software installed on personal computers in  China 
infringes its copyright.  “The parties have reached a settlement resolving the
entire case,”  Cybersitter LLC , the software maker, said Feb. 7
in a filing in U.S. District Court in Santa Ana, California.
Terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed in the filing.  Closely held Cybersitter sued China, seven computer makers
and two Chinese software makers in 2010, seeking $2.2 billion in
damages over allegations the Green Dam program illegally copies
more than 3,000 lines of code from Cybersitter’s Internet
content-filtering program. The Chinese government made Green Dam
mandatory on personal computers sold there in 2009.  Researchers in China have reported that Green Dam contains
more than 6,500 political keyword filters, including words
related to China’s control of Tibet, the 1989 Tiananmen Square
massacre and the government-banned Falun Gong religious group,
Cybersitter said in its complaint.  Researchers at the University of Michigan said in a 2009
report that Green Dam could impair computer performance by
making machines more prone to security breaches.  A report that same year from the  OpenNet Initiative , which
includes researchers at the University of Cambridge, University
of Oxford and  University of Toronto , called Green Dam, a
“substandard product” developed by companies with little
experience in such software.  Robert Schwartz , a lawyer for Lenovo in  Los Angeles , and
Elliot Gipson, a lawyer for Santa Barbara, California-based
Cybersitter, didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment on
the settlement.  Gipson said in a telephone interview last month that China
hadn’t responded to the complaint and that U.S. District Judge
Josephine Staton Tucker last year granted a motion for entry of
default against the country.  The case is Cybersitter v. the People’s Republic of China,
U.S. District Court, Central District of  California  (Santa Ana).  Pornography Not Copyrightable, Infringement Defendant Argues  A resident of California’s Solano County has presented a
novel defense to allegations of copyright infringement made by
lawyers for an adult film company.  Liuxia Wong, who filed a complaint seeking a court
declaration she hasn’t infringed a copyright belonging to Hard
Drive Productions Inc., says the work in question isn’t entitled
to copyright protection.  In her complaint filed Jan. 30 in federal court in  San
Francisco , she argues that the U.S. Constitution’s Copyright
Clause protects only works “which promote the progress of
science and the useful arts.” The film she is accused of
infringing -- “Amateur Allure Jen” -- fails to meet the
constitutional requirements for protection, she said in her
pleadings.  The film depicts “obscene material,” “does not promote
the useful arts” and “does not promote the progress of
science,” Wong claims.  She also argued that Hard Drive demanded $3,400 from her so
she could avoid being named a defendant in an infringement
action.  Included in her case filing is a demand letter from Steele
Hansmeier LLC, a  Chicago  law firm. The letter tells her that she
can “work out a settlement with us” and avoid “the costs of
attorney fees and the uncertainty associated with jury
verdicts” by mailing the firm a check for $3,400. The firm said
if she settled she would remain anonymous.  Wong called the firm’s actions intimidation, claiming she
didn’t download the movie or authorize anyone else using her
computer to download it.  She asked the court to declare she wasn’t liable for
infringement and that the film wasn’t copyrightable.
Additionally, she sought an order barring Hard Drive from
demanding settlements “not supported by facts and law” and for
awards of litigation costs and attorney fees.  Wong is represented by  Aaron K. McClellan  and  Steven W.
Yuen  of  Murphy Pearson Bradley & Feeney  of San Francisco.  The case is Liuxia Wong v. Hard Drive Productions Inc.,
5:12-00469-HRL, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ericsson Sued by Airvana in New York for $330 Million  Ericsson AB, the world’s largest maker of wireless
networks, was sued for more than $330 million by Airvana Network
Solutions Inc., which says Ericsson misappropriated intellectual
property.  Ericsson secretly developed a product based on Airvana
trade secrets to operate wireless network equipment in order to
avoid paying software licensing fees, Airvana said in a
complaint filed yesterday in New York state court.  “Ericsson has now undertaken a blatant ploy to evade its
contractual obligations, by developing a secret ‘in-house’
project designed to misappropriate critical Airvana intellectual
property,” the company said.  Ericsson, which depended on Airvana’s technology to service
customers, “constantly badgered” Airvana to reduce the price
of the software and began development of its own product in
2010, according to the complaint.  Airvana, based in Chelmsford,  Massachusetts , said it has
suffered damages of more than $330 million and will face “an
immediate and precipitous decline” in revenue if Ericsson is
able to displace the company with its own product.  A spokesman for Stockholm’s Ericsson couldn’t be reached
for comment.  The case is Airvana Network Solutions Inc. v. Ericsson
Inc., 650360-2012, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Ex-Motorola Worker Guilty of Trade Secret Theft, Judge Rules  Hanjuan Jin, a former  Motorola Inc. (MMI)  software engineer
charged with stealing trade secrets from the company, was found
guilty and acquitted of economic espionage to benefit a foreign
government.  Jin was tried in Chicago before U.S. District Judge Ruben Castillo in November after being indicted on three counts of
stealing trade secrets and three more counts of economic
espionage. She waived her right to a jury.  Yesterday Castillo found her guilty of stealing trade
secrets and acquitted her on the three counts of economic
espionage.  “I conclude that Ms. Jin criminally betrayed Motorola by
stealing its trade secrets,” the judge said.  Castillo allowed Jin to remain in home confinement and
scheduled sentencing for April 18.  Jin, 41, faces as long as 10 years in prison on the trade
secrets conviction. She faced as long as 15 years in prison on
each of the economic espionage counts.  She was indicted in 2008, a year after she returned to
Schaumburg, Illinois-based Motorola following a yearlong medical
leave of absence and immediately stepped down.  U.S. Customs agents stopped her as she was about to board a
plane at Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport on Feb. 28,
2007. In her possession were more than 1,000 Motorola documents,
$30,000 in cash and a one-way ticket to China.  She was accused of simultaneously working for Motorola and
for a Beijing-based company, Kai Sun News (Beijing) Technology
Co., also known as  SunKaisens , which was affiliated with China’s
military.  The case is U.S. v. Jin, 08-cr-192, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  Trademark  EKA-AZS Challenges Trademark Infringement Award to Rosneft  EKA-AZS, the operator of a chain of gas stations in the
Moscow region, is challenging the award the Moscow Commercial
Court made to  Rosneft Oil Co. (ROSN)  in a trademark-infringement suit,
the Russian Legal Information Agency said in a  statement .  In 2005 the two companies entered into a franchise
agreement for EKA-AZS to use the trademark on 40 gasoline
filling stations for five years.  The suit involved the use of the Rosneft trademark for five
months after a contract between the two companies for the use of
the mark expired in 2010.  In December the court reduced the judgment against EKA-AZS
from 5 million rubles ($168,000) to 3 million.  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 