-- Microsoft to Hand Out ARM Chip Test Machines in Windows 8 Push
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-02-09T18:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/microsoft-to-hand-out-arm-chip-test-machines-in-windows-8-push.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  will begin handing
out test versions of Windows 8 computers running chips with  ARM
Holdings Plc (ARM) ’s technology, part of its push to release devices
that can compete with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad tablet.  Microsoft wants ARM-based devices to go on sale at the same
time as computers sporting chips from  Intel Corp. (INTC)  The ARM-based
test computers, featuring chips made by  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ,  Texas
Instruments Inc. (TXN)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) , will go to partners and
software developers in the next several weeks, Microsoft Windows
President Steven Sinofsky said in an interview.  The first broadly available test version of Windows 8 will
be distributed Feb. 29, and Microsoft has so far only provided
developers with machines running Intel’s chips. Because the
company also wants the next version of its operating system to
gain a foothold in the tablet-computer market dominated by ARM-
based machines like the iPad, it’s important for Microsoft to
have an ARM product available quickly.  Microsoft’s Windows unit is releasing a personal-computer
operating system for the first time that runs on ARM chips.
Previous versions of Windows for PCs have run on x86 chips from
Intel and Advanced Micro Devices Inc. Still, Microsoft should be
able to get ARM-based products in stores at the same time,
Sinofsky said, while declining to comment on when the products
will be released.  Release Target  “Our collective goal is for them to ship at the same time
as PCs with Windows 8 on x86,” he said. “I wouldn’t be saying
it’s a goal if I didn’t think we could do it.”  Sinofsky will discuss Microsoft’s efforts to release
Windows with ARM technology in an approximately 8,000-word blog
post today.  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , will start to
distribute thousands of the test machines around the same time
it unveils the Windows 8 Consumer Preview at a mobile conference
in  Barcelona ,  Spain .  Revenue from Windows software, which runs most of the
world’s PCs, has missed  analysts ’ estimates in four of the past
five quarters, in part because some consumers are defecting from
laptops with Windows to tablets like the iPad. Microsoft
probably won’t be able to significantly change that trend until
Windows 8 goes on sale, Chief Financial Officer  Peter Klein  said
in an interview last month.  Preinstalled Software  Windows on ARM will only be sold preinstalled on computers
and all applications and updates for the product will be
distributed through the Windows apps store only, Sinofsky said.
That’s different from the x86 version, which will also be
available for purchase separately from the hardware.  That lets Microsoft closely control how the ARM machines
run and ensure that everything works -- akin to other
electronics, such as TV set-top boxes and game consoles, which
are built and sold with hardware and software in the same
package.  Microsoft will include versions of Word, Excel, PowerPoint
and the OneNote note-taking application on the Windows on ARM
devices, Sinofsky said.  As with x86 machines, Windows 8 on ARM will let users
choose either the new Metro design, which features tiles that
update with new information, or revert to the current Windows
design, Sinofsky said. Unlike x86, the ARM machines won’t be
able to run older applications such as those written for the
current version of Windows, he said.  “If you are a customer, whether an enterprise or an
individual, and there is an existing Windows program you
absolutely have to run, you’ll be best served by a PC with one
of the Intel or AMD chips that can run that software,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  