-- IDB Capital Increased by $70 Billion for Latin America Lending
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-02-09T20:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/idb-capital-increased-by-70-billion-for-latin-america-lending.html
Member countries will give the Inter-
American Development Bank a capital increase of $70 billion to
increase funding in  Latin America , the Washington-based lender
said.  Its 48 member countries will inject $1.7 billion over five
years and pledge to make available the remaining amount if
needed, the bank said in a statement on its  website  today.  The capital boost approved by the Board of Governors on
Jan. 31 will allow the IDB to provide annual financing of $12
billion through 2021, up from an average of $8 billion over the
past decade, according to the statement. The focus of its
activities will be on smaller economies.  The financial injection coincides with a period of robust
growth in Latin America. The region’s economies grew by 4.6
percent on average last year, compared with 1.6 percent growth
for advanced economies, according to the  International Monetary
Fund .  Demand for development lending in the region accelerated
after the global financial crisis in 2008, particularly in more
vulnerable, smaller economies, according to the IDB website.  The IDB, which was created in 1959, provides loans, grants,
and technical assistance to partners in Latin America and the
Caribbean on a range of projects from poverty reduction to
climate change and regional integration.  The IDB’s largest shareholder is the U.S., with Brazil and
Argentina in second place with equal shares. The 22 non-
borrowing members that contribute capital and have  voting rights 
include the U.S., Canada,  Japan , Israel, Korea,  China  and 16
European countries.  The most recent capital increase was approved in 1995 and
finalized in 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  