-- Woods Is 5 Off Lead in Season’s U.S. Debut
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-02-10T19:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/tiger-woods-birdies-opening-hole-in-u-s-pga-tour-season-debut.html
Tiger Woods had three birdies and a
bogey through his first seven holes today and is five shots
behind leader Charlie Wi in the second round of the Pebble Beach
National Pro-Am Tournament, his first U.S.  PGA Tour  event this
year.  Woods, playing in the tournament for the first time since
2002, had birdies on the par-5 sixth and par-3 seventh holes at
Monterey Peninsula Country Club’s Shore Course after opening his
day with another birdie.  His lone bogey came on the par-4 fourth, where he missed
the fairway with his tee shot and yelled a profanity following
his second shot. He was unable to sink his par putt from about
six feet,  according to  the Golf Channel.  Woods, who last played in the event in 2002, shot a 4-
under-par 68 yesterday at the Spyglass Hill golf course, which
had the highest average score of the tournament’s three courses
during the opening round in  Pebble Beach , California.  Three players scored better at Spyglass in the opening
round than Woods, who ended the first day tied for 15th place.  Wi, who is 2-under today after a 9-under 61 opening round,
is one shot ahead of Kevin Na and two in front of  Dustin Johnson , Danny Lee and Ken Duke.  Woods finished third in his opening event of 2012 in  Abu
Dhabi  two weeks ago, after he entered the final round tied for
the lead with winner Robert Rock.  Although he hasn’t had an official PGA Tour win in more
than two years, Woods ended a 749-day winless drought with a
victory in December at the Chevron World Challenge, a limited-
field event he hosts in  California .  Amateur Pairing  This week’s tournament groups professionals with amateur
players. Woods is paired with Dallas Cowboys quarterback  Tony Romo  and the duo is 11-under as a team, eight shots off the lead
in the Pro-Am. The professionals and amateurs rotate among the
three courses the first three days before the pros play the
final round at Pebble Beach on Feb. 12.  When Woods won the tournament in 2000 he came from five
strokes back against Matt Gogel in the final round, four months
before he went on to post a 15-shot win in the U.S. Open at
Pebble Beach. He last played at Pebble Beach during the 2010
 U.S. Open , where he tied for fourth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in Pebble Beach, California at   matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  