-- IMF Says It’s Not Forcing Austerity on Greece During Talks
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-02-09T16:29:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/imf-says-it-s-not-forcing-austerity-on-greece-as-talks-continue.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
defended its approach in negotiating the terms of a new loan to
 Greece , saying it’s not forcing the country to take steps such
as budget cuts.  “The IMF is not imposing austerity on Greece,” IMF
spokesman Gerry Rice told reporters in  Washington  today. “What
we’re trying to do here is come up with a program that will
return Greece to a sustainable path.”  Greek political leaders today struck a deal on a package of
austerity measures, clearing the way for a swap to cut the
nation’s debt and win its second rescue in two years. The accord
came less than four hours before euro-region finance ministers
hold an emergency meeting in Brussels to discuss the 130
billion-euro ($172 billion) lifeline and the swap that will
impose a loss of about 70 percent for investors.  The political agreement was announced to IMF Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  by Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  and
is “an important initial step,” Rice said. Discussions on
Greece will now continue at the Brussels meeting, which Lagarde
is attending, he said. He declined to say what share of the new
loan package the IMF is ready to finance because the extent of
the country’s need isn’t yet clear.  The new package should address Greece’s major challenges,
including debt and fiscal issues as well as competitiveness,
Rice said. A “major element” is also transforming the labor
market, he said.  “We’re well aware how difficult that’s going to be,” he
said. “We’ve been trying to be mindful of the hardship facing
the Greek people,” Rice said, adding the IMF wants to
“minimize the impact on the most vulnerable in particular.”  Economic Outlook  The economic outlook for the Mediterranean economy depends
on the program of measures attached to the loan and how they
would be implemented, Rice said.  He also said technical discussions are continuing for a
possible loan to  Egypt  after “productive discussions” last
month. No meeting took place during a recent visit of an
Egyptian military delegation in Washington, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  