-- IMF Considers Cutting Hungarian Economic-Growth Forecast
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-02-09T14:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/imf-considers-cutting-hungarian-economic-growth-forecast-1-.html
The  International Monetary Fund  is
considering a cut in this year’s economic-growth forecast for
 Hungary , said Iryna Ivaschenko, the lender’s representative in
Budapest.  The IMF on Jan. 25 estimated Hungary’s economy may expand
0.3 percent in 2012, compared with the government’s 0.5 percent
projection.  “This 0.3 percent is our last official estimate, which has
been made with slightly better eurozone outlook so it can
revised down,” Ivaschenko told investors today in Budapest.
“We’re revising these numbers probably as I speak.”  Hungary is seeking to revive bailout talks with the IMF and
the European Union to quell investor concern about its ability
to service the highest debt level among the trading bloc’s
eastern members.  Hungary sought aid in November as the forint fell to a
record low and the country’s credit grade was cut to junk at
 Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings.  The forint weakened 0.3 percent to 291.06 per euro at 2:52
p.m. today in Budapest. The currency rose 10 percent, the most
in the world, since Jan. 5, when Prime Minister  Viktor Orban 
pledged to compromise on government policies for a “quick”
deal on a financial safety net.  ‘Tangible Steps’  Hungary, the first European Union country to obtain an IMF
bailout in 2008, first needs “tangible steps” on government
policies, including central-bank independence, to start talks on
a loan, Ivaschenko said, repeating a statement IMF Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  made on Jan. 13. Talks broke down in
December over Orban’s refusal to change the new central bank
legislation.  Hungary is in the process of sorting through government
policies the EU’s executive said may violate community rules.
These include the central bank law and the overhaul of the
judiciary and the data protection ombudsman’s office, all of
which Orban has pledged to amend.  The collapse of Malev Zrt., Hungary’s state-owned carrier,
may carry fiscal risks for the government that’s targeting a
budget deficit of 2.5 percent of gross domestic product this
year, Ivaschenko said.  An expected decline in revenue at Budapest Airport may in
an “extreme case” force the government to compensate the
operator in the amount of “several hundred billion forint,”
the Development Ministry said in an e-mail late yesterday. The
government targets a deficit of 576 billion forint ($2.6
billion) this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  