-- Impsa Pursuing Wind Sales Outside Brazil as Glut Lowers Prices
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-02-09T17:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/impsa-pursuing-wind-sales-outside-brazil-as-glut-lowers-prices.html
Industrias Metalurgicas Pescarmona
SA, the Argentinean wind-turbine maker with a factory in  Brazil ,
is pursuing sales in other parts of the region as a glut of
equipment in  South America ’s largest renewable energy market
drives down prices.  At least 11 companies are operating or developing factories
that will eventually produce turbines with 2,200 megawatts of
capacity a year, Paulo Alexandre Ferreira, Impsa’s commercial
manager, said at a conference in  Sao Paulo  today, citing data
from Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social, the
national development bank.  Annual demand is unlikely to exceed 2,000 megawatts in the
short term, he said.  Wind companies including  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ,  Vestas Wind
Systems A/S (VWS)  and Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA  are opening plants
in Brazil as sales in  Europe  and the U.S. slow, he said.  The increased competition is cutting into profit margins,
spurring Impsa to focus on other South American countries such
as Venezuela, Argentina and Uruguay, where the company already
has contracts, he said.  “This extreme competition has led to a bottoming of
prices,” he said. “It’s reached the lowest acceptable level
for all suppliers.”  The average global price for turbines fell 4 percent in
2011 to 910,000 euros ($1.2 million) a megawatt from the prior
year, and is estimated to decline to 890,000 euros this year,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  The industry’s target of contracting 2,000 megawatts of
Brazil wind farms a year is “wishful thinking,” he said.
“There’s no government program in place that would guarantee
that.”  Impsa has a factory in the northeastern city of Recife and
is planning another in  Rio Grande  do Sul that will provide
turbines for a 280-megawatt project under development by the
state-controlled utility Eletrosul Centrais Eletricas SA, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  