-- Lin TV Winning Big as Swing-State Super-PAC Cash Spreads to Local Stations
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-02-09T22:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/lin-tv-wins-big-as-swing-state-cash-spreads-to-local-stations.html
Broadcasters are attracting record
political advertising from the Republican presidential
primaries, a super-PAC-driven windfall for television stations
that promises to grow even larger in the general election.  The biggest winner may be  Lin TV Corp.  The Providence,
Rhode Island-based owner of 17 stations in the 12  closely
divided  swing states identified by Gallup Inc. may see  revenue 
rise 12 percent to a record $457 million this year. Hearst Corp.
has 12 battleground-state outlets and  CBS Corp.  has 10.  The spending is fueled by court rulings including the U.S.
Supreme Court’s 2010 Citizens United decision, which abolished
limits on independent outlays by unions and corporations. By the
Nov. 6 election, campaigns will have spent $2.6 billion, with 85
percent going to local TV,  Anthony DiClemente , a Barclays
Capital analyst in New York, estimated in a Jan. 31 report.  “TV stations will be the biggest beneficiary,” DiClemente
said in an interview. “It’s a heated political environment and
the relaxation of campaign finance laws is driving it all.”  Candidates and their super political action committees
spent about $40 million combined on ads in Iowa, New Hampshire,
South Carolina and Florida, said  Brad Adgate , research director
at New York-based ad buyer Horizon Media Inc. In South Carolina,
Republicans spent $13 million, compared with $7 million in 2008,
DiClemente said.  Competition for the Republican nomination is keeping the
money flowing. A super-PAC backing Newt Gingrich, who won the
 South Carolina  primary on Jan. 21, received $10 million from
billionaire  Sheldon Adelson , chairman of  Las Vegas Sands Corp. ,
and his wife. That was after super-PACs allied with  Mitt Romney ,
the leader in national polls, ran negative ads in Iowa that hurt
Gingrich’s support.  November Contest  Even bigger outlays forecast for the general election led
DiClemente to project a 15 percent rise in campaign-ad spending
from 2010’s regional contests and a 45 percent increase from the
2008 presidential year.  The Democratic Party will nominate President Barack Obama
for a second four-year term at its convention in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina , starting Sept. 3. The campaign of the president,
who opposed the Citizens United decision, asked supporters to
donate to a Democratic super-PAC this week.  “It’s not just the presidential elections that will spend
a lot,” DiClemente said. “Super-PACs will contribute to local
races, too.”  Swing States  Republicans will meet in Tampa,  Florida , starting Aug. 27
to nominate their presidential candidate. Florida and North
Carolina are among the dozen states that will be the focus of
advertising by Obama and his Republican challenger, according to
Gallup, an Omaha, Nebraska-based pollster.  Ohio ,  Pennsylvania ,
Colorado, Nevada,  Michigan , New Hampshire, Iowa, New Mexico,
 Virginia  and Wisconsin are other swing states.  CBS, owner of WWJ-TV in  Detroit  and 28 other stations, and
 News Corp. , owner of 27 stations including KSAZ-TV in Phoenix,
will be the biggest beneficiaries, Adgate said. Michigan and
Arizona hold GOP primaries on Feb. 28.  CBS will receive about $230 million in political
advertising this year, DiClemente estimated in the note. Without
political ads, CBS’s broadcast revenue would be unchanged from a
year ago, he wrote.  News Corp. (NWSA)  owns five stations in contested
states, while  Comcast Corp. ’s NBC and  Walt Disney Co. ’s ABC own
two each.  Lin, owner of four stations in Ohio, three in Michigan and
two in Virginia, generated $297.6 million this year through
Sept. 30. It hasn’t said when it will release full-year results.  Lin TV Lift  Advertising from political campaigns has become the
company’s biggest growth category, Chief Executive Officer
Vincent L. Sadusky said at an investor conference in December.
He was unavailable for an interview, Lin spokeswoman Courtney Guertin said in an e-mail. Lin TV collected $49.4 million in
political advertising revenue in 2010 and $47 million in 2008.  “Fortunately for us, if you want to get elected in
America, you do need to advertise,” Sadusky said. “Political
has been very, very strong in the last couple of cycles and we
anticipate it to be very strong going forward.”  Lin rose 1 percent to $4.93 at the  New York  close and has
gained 17 percent this year, outperforming the 10 percent rise
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Media Index of 16 companies. News
Corp., owner of Fox, slid 2.1 percent to $19.21. Hearst, based
in New York, is closely held.  Gannett Co. , based in McLean, Virginia, and  Gray Television
Inc. , in Atlanta, each own eight stations in swing states, while
Cincinnati-based  E.W. Scripps Co.  has five stations.  “There’s going to be a lot of money spent,” CBS CEO
Leslie Moonves said at an investor conference in December. “I’m
not saying that’s the best thing for America, but it’s not a bad
thing for the CBS Corporation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  