-- India Says 27 Nations to Discuss Retaliation on EU Airline Levy
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-02-09T16:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/india-says-27-nations-to-discuss-retaliation-for-eu-airline-carbon-rules.html
India , China and the U.S. will be
among at least 27 nations that will discuss retaliatory steps
following the European Union’s extension of its emissions market
to aviation, according to an Indian aviation ministry official.  New taxes and charges on European airlines, as well as the
re-opening of bilateral treaties governing flight rights will be
considered at the two-day meeting in Moscow, due to start Feb.
21, the official told reporters in New Delhi today. He declined
to be identified citing government policy.  India will also protest the EU’s decision, which came into
effect on Jan. 1, when Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  and EU
President Herman Van Rompuy hold  summit  level talks in  New Delhi 
tomorrow, the official said. The Moscow meeting follows a
statement adopted in November by the  United Nations ’
International Civil Aviation Organization calling on the EU to
exempt overseas airlines from the levy system, which is designed
to curb pollution.  The EU decided in 2008 that aviation should become part of
its cap-and-trade carbon program after airline discharges in
 Europe  doubled over two decades. Emissions from international
aviation now account for 2 percent to 3 percent of global
greenhouse gas discharges, according to the EU.  Airlines must monitor and report their emissions on all
flights into and out of Europe each year, and purchase carbon
permits to cover these discharges. Airlines will be given about
85 percent of their permits free of charge in 2012. One permit
is equivalent to one metric ton of carbon dioxide.  China  has already banned local carriers from supplying
emissions data to the EU, while U.S. airlines unsuccessfully
tried to prevent the extension of the market mechanism in a
legal challenge last year. Non-European governments have said
the system impinges sovereignty as the EU monitors and charges
emissions outside of Europe, such as those generated on the
final leg of a flight from  Asia .  Only three Indian carriers, state-owned Air India Ltd.,  Jet
Airways (India) Ltd. , the nation’s biggest, and Kingfisher
Airlines Ltd. operate services to Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  