-- Indonesian Tin Exports Drop 64% as Bad Weather Hurts Mining
-- B y   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2012-02-09T05:03:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/indonesian-tin-exports-drop-64-as-bad-weather-hurts-mining-1-.html
Refined-tin shipments from  Indonesia ,
the world’s largest exporter, plunged 64 percent in January from
a month earlier after bad weather disrupted mining, reducing ore
supplies to smelters.  Exports dropped to 5,380 metric tons from 15,103 tons in
December, Toto Rusbianto, head of mining exports at the Trade
Ministry, said in a mobile-phone text message today. Sales were
7,335 tons in January last year.  Lower sales from Indonesia may help to sustain a 30 percent
rally in prices this year spurred by concern that demand for the
metal used in soldering and packaging will outstrip global
supplies. Tin inventories monitored by the  London  Metal Exchange
fell to the lowest level since March 2009 yesterday.  “Extreme weather has really disrupted both offshore and
on-land tin mining in Bangka,” Johan Murod, director at PT
Bangka Belitung Timah Sejahtera, a group of six smelters, said
by telephone from Pangkalpinang. “Waves could reach as high as
5 meters, making it impossible for dredgers to operate, and on
land the pits were flooded due to heavy rain.”  Shipments also fell last month as producers had limited
stockpiles after boosting sales in December, Murod said.
Smelters in Indonesia ended a voluntary ban on shipments on Dec.
31, clearing the way for exports to resume. The ban was intended
to boost prices after a slump in August and September.  The weather conditions may persist until next month or
April, and exports this month may reach only about 4,000 tons,
Murod said. The Bangka Belitung islands are Indonesia’s main
producing regions.  Indonesia shipped tin to 11 countries last month, with
 Singapore  taking 3,560 tons, or 66 percent of the total, the
ministry’s data showed.  Three-month delivery tin fell 1.6 percent to $25,000 a ton
in London at 11:05 a.m. Jakarta time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net ;
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  