-- Indonesia Unexpectedly Cuts Interest Rate to Support Growth Amid Slowdown
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 2012-02-09T11:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/indonesia-unexpectedly-cuts-interest-rate-to-support-growth-amid-slowdown.html
Indonesia ’s central bank unexpectedly
cut its  benchmark interest rate  for the first time in three
months, taking advantage of easing inflation to support growth
in a deteriorating global economy.  Governor Darmin Nasution and his board lowered the
 reference rate  by a quarter of a percentage point to 5.75
percent from 6 percent, Bank Indonesia said in a statement in
Jakarta today. The decision was predicted by four of 15
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News, with the rest expecting
no change.  Indonesia joins the  Philippines  and  Thailand  in cutting
borrowing costs in the past month, while the  Bank of Korea  held
off raising rates today as policy makers move to counter
weakening global demand.  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy, which
grew 6.5 percent last year in the biggest gain since before the
Asian financial crisis, may expand less than 6 percent this year
if  Europe  suffers a severe recession, according to Bambang Brodjonegoro, head of fiscal policy at the  finance ministry .  “BI has had a dovish bias and is taking full advantage of
the declining headline inflation in recent months to push
interest rates structurally lower,” said Eugene Leow, an
economist in Singapore at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. who predicted
the cut. Still, with higher electricity and fuel prices imminent
in April, “aggressive cuts from this point may be viewed
negatively by investors,” he said.  Inflation (IDCPIY)  slowed for a fifth straight month in January to
3.65 percent, and the central bank reiterated today an inflation
target of 3.5 percent to 5.5 percent for 2012 and 2013.  Rupiah Falls  The nation’s currency fell 0.5 percent to 8,976 per dollar
as of 3:17 p.m. local time. The Jakarta Composite index fell 0.7
percent, paring a loss of as much as 0.9 percent earlier.  Bank Indonesia , which cut borrowing costs twice in the
final quarter of 2011, kept the benchmark rate unchanged in the
previous two policy meetings. It has widened the lower range of
its interbank lending rate to push borrowing costs lower.  “We cut the  interest rate  with some reason,” Deputy
Governor Halim Alamsyah said in Jakarta today after the rate
decision was announced. “In order to maintain growth momentum,
we provided a stimulus. We see that the exchange rate is
relatively stable and won’t be much affected, and we expect an
increase in capital inflows. Thirdly, in the context of our
monetary framework right now, we want to takes steps to
normalize interest rates.”  ‘Boost Growth’  Today’s decision was made to “boost growth” amid a
slowing global economy, and the priority remains achieving the
inflation target and  exchange-rate  stability, the monetary
authority said in a  statement .  Bank Indonesia will “continue to optimize the role of
monetary policy in boosting economic capacity, maintaining
financial market stability, and mitigating the impacts of global
economic slowdown, while at the same time anchoring inflation
expectation,” it said.  The economy will expand 6.5 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, the central bank forecast today. For the
full year, it expects growth of 6.3 percent to 6.7 percent,
supported by strong domestic demand and investment even as trade
may slow.  “This really is a pre-emptive move to continue providing
support for the economy,” said  Gundy Cahyadi , an economist at
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in  Singapore . “The central bank
has highlighted downside risks to growth and is likely to revise
its 2012 growth forecast very soon.”  Effect on Companies  Today’s rate cut will benefit companies in the consumer and
financial industries, said Budi Rustano, an analyst at PT
Valbury Asia Securities in Jakarta. The impact on the stock
market should be positive, he said.  Lower borrowing costs have bolstered profit at lenders
including PT Bank Rakyat Indonesia. The nation’s second-biggest
bank by market value expects net income to have risen by at
least 15 percent last year, it said Jan. 24.  The nation’s policy makers have also signaled they are
prepared to support the economy with fiscal stimulus. The
government said in September it was preparing a stimulus package,
and Brodjonegoro said last month the country will increase
spending to bolster growth and limit the impact of the global
slowdown.  President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s efforts to boost the
$707 billion economy by an average 6.6 percent a year have been
bolstered by recent ratings upgrades to investment level from
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings after 14 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  