-- Indonesia Bonds Gain as Central Bank Cuts Rates; Rupiah Drops
-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 2012-02-09T09:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/indonesia-bonds-gain-as-central-bank-cuts-rates-rupiah-drops.html
Indonesia ’s bonds advanced for an
11th day and the rupiah dropped, reversing earlier gains, as
 Bank Indonesia  unexpectedly cut its benchmark interest rate for
the first time in three months today.  The central bank reduced the reference rate by 25 basis
points to 5.75 percent. Only four of 15 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg predicted the move, with the rest expecting the rate
would be left unchanged.  Offshore funds  boosted holdings of
government debt by 5.7 percent to 235.54 trillion rupiah ($26.3
billion) this year through Feb. 7, finance ministry data show.  “The bonds have been climbing for the past few days,
probably because some investors were anticipating a rate cut,”
said Handy Yunianto, a fixed-income analyst at Mandiri Sekuritas
in Jakarta. “There has also been a lot of interest from foreign
investors in Indonesian assets. The rate cut is negative for the
currency.”  The yield on the government’s 7 percent debt due May 2022
fell eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 5.10
percent today, according to midday prices by the Inter-Dealer
Market Association.  The country sold 12 trillion rupiah of local-currency notes
this week, exceeding its 8 trillion rupiah target, the  finance
ministry  said in a statement. The sale drew 42 trillion rupiah
of bids, it said. Moody’s Investors Service awarded Indonesia an
investment-grade  credit rating  last month, following  Fitch
Ratings  in December.  Bank Indonesia, which cut borrowing costs twice in the
final quarter of 2011, kept the benchmark rate unchanged in the
previous two policy meetings. Inflation in Indonesia slowed for
a fifth straight month in January to 3.65 percent.  The rupiah weakened 0.5 percent to 8,978 per dollar as of
3:30 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency rose as much as 0.4 percent
to 8,900 earlier.  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy, which grew 6.5 percent
last year in the biggest gain since before the Asian financial
crisis, may expand less than 6 percent this year if  Europe 
suffers a severe recession, according to Bambang Brodjonegoro,
head of fiscal policy at the finance ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  