-- ING Profit Misses Estimates After Impairments, Hedge Loss
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-02-09T13:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/ing-profit-misses-estimates-after-insurance-charge.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, posted fourth-quarter profit that
missed analysts’ estimates as measures to protect capital led to
hedging losses and impairments.  Net income rose to 1.19 billion euros ($1.58 billion) from
130 million euros a year earlier, the Amsterdam-based firm said
today in a statement. That missed the average 1.89 billion-euro
estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. ING shares fell
the most in almost two months.  The company is seeking to sell its insurance unit before a
European Union deadline at the end of 2013 and repay state aid
amid the region’s debt crisis and tougher  capital requirements .
Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen may consider selling bank
assets to help raise the 3 billion euros still owed the Dutch
state as the firm last month said it may be more difficult to
meet its goal of completing repayment this year.  Profit was hurt by 214 million euros in impairments on
bonds and equity securities at the banking unit, 348 million
euros in losses on a hedge against equity losses at the
insurance division and a writedown in ING’s U.S. annuity
business. Earnings included a gain of 1.29 billion euros from
the sale of assets.  Hedging Losses  Hedging losses were “surprisingly high” and the U.S.
insurance unit charge was “at the upper end of the range --
that’s a bit disappointing,” said Andreas Schaefer, a
Dusseldorf-based analyst at WestLB AG. He has a “buy”
recommendation on the stock.  ING  fell  as much as 5.9 percent and was down 3.1 percent to
7.03 euros as of 2:08 p.m. in Amsterdam trading. That compares
with a 1.5 percent gain for banks in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
The shares have advanced 23 percent this year.  ING took a charge of 1.1 billion euros before tax as lower
 interest rates  and stock markets hurt a U.S. annuity business
the firm is winding down. The company in December updated its
assumptions to reflect market conditions and the behavior of
about 500,000 annuity holders who are retaining their contracts
for longer than expected. At that time it predicted a writedown
in the range of 900 million euros to 1.1 billion euros.  Insurance IPO  The measures are part of the program to prepare the U.S.
insurance business for an initial public offering, Hommen said.
The sale could take place as early as this year, he told
reporters, while no timetable has been set.  “The equity markets have improved significantly,
especially insurance companies have done relatively well,” he
said. “There is a market again, you could do an IPO.”  The firm had a loss of 348 million euros on hedges aimed to
protect regulatory capital against a drop in equities, Chief
Financial Officer Patrick Flynn said. The hedges, which have to
be accounted through the profit-and-loss account, improved
shareholders funds by 700 million euros, he said.  ING posted a loss, excluding divestments and one-time
items, of 516 million euros in the fourth quarter, compared with
a profit of 252 million euros a year earlier. Analysts had
estimated a fourth-quarter underlying profit of 362 million
euros.  Underlying pretax profit at ING’s banking division fell 45
percent to 793 million euros. The company set aside 530 million
euros for doubtful loans, compared with 410 million euros a year
earlier. Additions to loan-loss provisions are expected to
remain high in the coming quarters, ING said.  Greek Writedown  Net interest margin at the banking unit rose to 1.42
percent from 1.37 percent in the third quarter. The insurance
division had an underlying pretax loss of 1.35 billion euros,
compared with a loss of 873 million euros a year earlier.  ING wrote down its holdings of Greek sovereign debt to
market value as of Dec. 31, leading to a 199 million-euro pretax
impairment. That represented a writedown of about 80 percent.  “The fourth quarter was challenging, with very volatile
markets and a deepening of the sovereign crisis in  Europe ,”
Hommen told analysts today. “The environment being uncertain,
our priority was to protect capital and further reduce our risk
position.”  The European Union has ordered ING to exit its insurance
business by the end of 2013 as a condition for approving state
support. The bank and insurer received 10 billion euros in aid
and transferred the risk on 21.6 billion euros of U.S. mortgage
assets to the Dutch government after the 2008 financial crisis.  ING expects the outcome of an appeal it filed to the EU
General Court in Luxembourg on the restructuring demands on
March 2, Hommen said today.  Repayment Priority  ING last month said its priorities in the next two years
are repayment of the Dutch state, completing the EU-ordered
restructuring and meeting Basel III capital requirements. ING
plans to have a core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of
financial strength, of more than 10 percent by the end of 2013,
it said. That compares to a 9.6 percent ratio at the end of
2011.  After repaying its government bailout and meeting the
capital demands, ING plans to resume dividend payments.  ING agreed last year to sell its U.S. online bank to
 Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  The U.S. Federal Reserve, which has
to approve the transaction, yesterday rescheduled a meeting to
discuss the matter. The deal is still expected to close in the
first quarter, Hommen told reporters on a conference call today.
The proceeds may be used to repay part of the state aid by May,
he said.  ING last month scrapped a plan to create an Asian-European
insurer in an initial public offering and said it may sell the
Asian business separately given its greater allure for buyers
after European markets worsened.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  