-- Intel Antitrust Suit to Be Dropped by N.Y. Attorney General
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-02-09T23:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/intel-says-new-york-state-has-dropped-its-antitrust-suit-against-chipmaker.html
New York  state has ended its more
than two-year-old antitrust suit against Intel Corp. without
fining the chipmaker or imposing any restrictions on its
conduct.  Intel hasn’t admitted any wrongdoing or agreed to any
limitations on its business practices, said Sumner Lemon, a
spokesman for the  Santa Clara , California-based company. Intel,
the world’s largest chipmaker, will pay $6.5 million to cover
the cost of some of the litigation, he said.  “While certain other matters are on appeal, this
settlement brings to an end what was the last active court-level
antitrust litigation involving Intel’s sales conduct,” Lemon
said. It “puts an end to any associated expense and distraction
from such matters.”  New York sued Intel in November 2009, accusing it of using
threats and illegal payments to pressure computer manufacturers
to use its chips. Leonard Stark, a U.S. district judge in
 Delaware  who is presiding over the case, canceled the Feb. 14
trial to allow lawyers from both sides to discuss whether the
case should be dismissed.  “While we were disappointed by the rulings of the Delaware
federal judge handling the matter, it’s important to note that
our claims were dismissed on procedural, not substantive
grounds,” Jennifer Givner, a spokeswoman for New York Attorney
General  Eric Schneiderman , said in an e-mailed statement. “We
continue to believe that those claims, which were asserted under
the previous administration, had merit, but in light of the
court’s decision believe that no purpose is served by pursuing
the matter further.”  Scope Narrowed  The judge had earlier thrown out some of the claims against
Intel, including one seeking triple damages, and narrowed the
scope of the case by saying New York could only focus on
computer purchases for a three-year period. State officials had
sought to use a six-year period.  The company has fought allegations over the years that it
engaged in anticompetitive behavior, and it has paid more than
$2.7 billion to resolve antitrust litigation. Intel has
outstanding appeals pending against rulings by the European
Union and in South Korea.  The case is State of New York v.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , 09-cv-827,
U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 