-- Lira Heads for Biggest Drop Versus Dollar This Year as Greek Talks Stumble
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-02-09T12:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/lira-heads-for-biggest-drop-versus-dollar-this-year-as-greek-talks-stumble.html
The lira depreciated for the first
time in three days after leaders of neighbouring Greece failed
to agree on economic measures needed to a secure an aid package.  The Turkish currency declined 0.8 percent at 1.7625 per
dollar at 1:53 p.m. in Istanbul, heading for the biggest
decline this year.  Yields (BENCH)  on the benchmark two-year bond were
unchanged at 9.33 percent, a  Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS (TEBNK)  index of
the securities showed.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos headed to
Brussels today as politicians in Athens narrowed their
differences to the single issue of pension cuts needed to secure
a 130 billion euro ($173 billion) bailout.  Talks stumbled over pensions and officials from the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  gave Greece
15 more days to identify measures totaling 300 million euros. A
euro region official said a Greek default will not be on the
agenda of today’s emergency finance ministers’ meeting, which
starts at 6 p.m. in Brussels.  “We are seeing demand from foreign investors,” Tufan Comert, a strategist at Garanti Yatirim Menkul Kiymetler in
Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments. “This appears to be linked
with the situation in  Greece .”  The lira gained 7.4 percent this year against the dollar
after sinking 18 percent last year as credit growth and an
expansion in trade deficit slowed as a result of higher lending
rates of as much as 12.5 percent by the central bank. Risk
appetite for  emerging markets  was also spurred this month after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said U.S. interest
rates will remain exceptionally low for longer and hinted there
would be a third round of quantitative easing.  “The market is likely experiencing a bit of profit
taking,”  Roderick Ngotho , the London-based emerging-markets
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc., said
in e-mailed comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Aydan Eksin at 
 aeksin@bloomberg.net  