-- Ireland’s Kenny Says Country Won’t Impose Losses on Holders of Sovereigns
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-02-09T15:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/ireland-s-kenny-says-country-won-t-impose-losses-on-bondholders.html
Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said
he won’t impose losses on holders of the country’s sovereign
debt, as his government sought to take advantage of any European
Central Bank concessions on Greek securities.  “It’s very clear that Ireland will not seek any
writedown,” Kenny, 60, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness with Margaret Brennan” yesterday in
 New York . “We’ll  pay our dues  in full and on time.”  Ireland wants to refinance about 30 billion euros ($40
billion) of so-called promissory notes it used to rescue the
former  Anglo Irish Bank Corp (ANGL) ., now known as Irish Bank
Resolution Corp., on better terms and over a longer period.
Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said yesterday that any
concessions that  Greece  gets from the ECB could help Ireland’s
negotiating position.  The ECB is considering using its bond holdings to bolster
Greece’s next rescue program and support efforts to contain the
sovereign debt crisis, three euro-region officials said on Feb.
4. Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard Chartered Bank in
 London , said ECB involvement would open a “Pandora’s box” and
weaken the central bank’s negotiation position with nations.  ‘Difficult Question’  ECB President  Mario Draghi  declined to comment at a press
conference in  Frankfurt  today on whether the central bank will
use its own Greek bond holdings in any swap to help the nation.  “I haven’t said yet what the ECB is going to do about
Greece, so it’s just a very difficult question to answer,”
Draghi said. He also called Greece “unique for everything” and
said Ireland’s government “ought to be praised for the constant
progress that it’s making in its reforms.”  Ireland stepped out of bond markets and sought a 67.5
billion-euro international rescue in November 2010, amid concern
that the nation’s banking  woes  would push it into bankruptcy.  Anglo Irish was nationalized in 2009. As the bill for the
bank soared in 2010, the previous government decided to hold off
injecting all the cash into the bank straight away.  Instead, it promised to give the cash over 10 years, by
issuing promissory notes to the lender for the full amount. The
bank then used the notes as collateral to access emergency
funding from the country’s central bank.  Lending Facilities  Under the current plan, the state will have to raise about
3.1 billion euros a year for at least a decade to pay down the
notes.  Having different lending facilities could “ease the burden
somewhat” as the country tries to recover, Kenny said. “And
while it’s difficult for our people and challenging for our
country, we know we’re headed in the right direction.”  Noonan linked the government’s campaign for a better deal
to the Greek process. Under one plan being weighed, the ECB
could sell its Greek bonds to the European Financial Stability
Facility at the price it paid for them rather than accept a loss
along with private creditors, two of the people familiar said.  The EFSF is against that proposal because it may stretch
its capacity, the officials said. Another plan is for euro-area
central banks to give up profits or take losses on Greek bonds
in their investment portfolios.  Several options are under informal consideration and none
have gained traction so far, two of the officials said.
Spokespeople for the ECB and the EFSF declined to comment.  Bond Yields  “I see it as strengthening our negotiating position,”
Noonan said in an interview with broadcaster  RTE  yesterday. “If
the ECB are prepared to make this kind of concession to Greece,
it would encourage me to think that they might be prepared to
make a concession on the promissory note.”  Ireland’s October 2020 bonds, regarded as the benchmark,
yielded 7.03 percent today, down from 9.1 percent at the start
of December. The yield on the equivalent Greek security is 33
percent and on the Portuguese note it’s 13.5 percent.  Kenny said bond yields need to fall below 7 percent before
Ireland re-enters international credit markets. The government
is aiming to sell treasury bills starting in June, as it seeks
to avoid the need for further aid.  “I’m not contemplating a second bailout at all,” Kenny
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  