-- Italy’s Monti Says EU Requires Growth, IMF Flexibility on Top of Austerity
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-02-09T22:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/italy-s-monti-says-eu-requires-growth-imf-flexibility-on-top-of-austerity.html
European leaders must complement
austerity with growth policies while the  International Monetary
Fund  needs more flexibility in providing aid to halt the euro-
region’s debt crisis, Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said.  The European Union’s entire stance “must become more
growth-oriented” for countries to get their finances under
control, Monti said in a speech in  Washington  today. The IMF
should also show a “broader understanding” for countries
receiving aid, while going beyond “strict adherence” to
deficit cuts to seek “pragmatic solutions.”  Monti is trying to convince European allies that the
response to the debt crisis has been overly reliant on austerity
measures that are deepening the region’s economic slump and
complicating deficit reduction. Monti’s success at spurring the
growth needed to reduce Italy’s $2.5 trillion  debt , about four
times the size of EU’s bailout fund, may be vital to preventing
the 17-nation euro region from breaking up.  “ Italy  is not in a state where it needs financial
support,” Monti said. “But it needs better governance and
wants to contribute to better governance”  In a meeting with President  Barack Obama  after the speech,
the two talked about the “imperative of growth,” Monti said.
Obama said the Italian prime minister had not only restored
faith in Italy, “he’s also been able to generate confidence
throughout Europe.”  ‘Difficult Time’  “The prime minister came in at a very difficult time in
Italian politics and the Italian economy and I just want to say
how much we appreciate the strong start that he has embarked on
and the very effective measures that he is promoting inside of
Italy,” Obama said.  Obama also called on  Europe  to increase the size of its
bailout mechanism and erect a bigger firewall against debt-
crisis contagion. Monti travels to  New York  tomorrow to talk to
investors.  “There’s no European more important for Obama to meet
right now to understand that European leaders are aware of the
problems and are dealing with them,” said Philippe Moreau- Defarges, a researcher at Paris-based French Institute of
International Affairs. “There’s no European leader right now
who understands better how the global economy works.”  Pushing Back  Monti, 68, an economist who as a European Union competition
commissioner in the 1990s told companies such as Microsoft Corp.
what to do, has been pushing back against  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and Germany’s insistence on austerity measures as a
panacea for the debt crisis. He also took aim at the IMF today,
saying the fund needed to be more flexible in closing a bailout
deal with Greece that could lead to a further reduction in
borrowing costs.  “It is my understanding that many of us in Europe,
including the member states which traditionally are on the side
of caution and of discipline, believe that this is the moment to
consider that if there is a minimum of compliance with the
requirements set out, this is the moment to turn the page and
extinguish this potential Greek explosion,” he said.  European finance ministers are meeting in Brussels to
review an agreement between  Greece  and its biggest creditors --
the EU,  European Central Bank  and the IMF -- on additional
budget-cutting measures that would free up a second bailout
package worth 130 billion euros ($173 billion) and allow Greece
to skirt default.  Bonds Gain  Getting a deal on Greece would ease concern about debt-
crisis contagion and help further reduce Italy’s borrowing
costs, Monti said. The yield on Italy’s 10-year benchmark bond
fell 10 basis points to 5.48 percent, the lowest in more than
four months. When Monti took office Nov. 16 it was 7.37 percent,
past the 7 percent level that led Greece, Ireland and  Portugal 
to seek bailouts.  Monti leads a government of non-politicians that came to
power in November after Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi 
resigned when his ruling coalition frayed as it tried to pass
deficit cuts. Monti initially adopted some of the policies he is
now criticizing, before pivoting to measures to spur growth,
competitiveness and productivity. He passed 20 billion euros in
budget cuts and tax increases within weeks of his swearing in.
16.  Stagnant Economy  He then moved to reducing regulations he blames for Italy’s
stagnant economy, which expanded at an annual average of 0.4
percent in the decade through 2010 compared with 1.2 percent in
the euro area. Monti’s Cabinet approved legislation on Jan. 20
to boost competition among so-called closed professions such as
notaries and pharmacists. A week later, the Cabinet abolished or
loosened regulations in a bid to cut red tape and make it easier
to do business.  Monti’s government now faces what may be its toughest task,
with Labor Minister Elsa Fornero engaged in talks with unions
and executives on easing  labor laws . Past efforts to loosen the
labor code have led to political violence, including
assassinations of economists working on the issue in 1999 and
2002. Monti pledged today to negotiate an agreement by the end
of March, saying he wouldn’t have to resort to passing the
changes by a decree law.  Interesting Moment  “This is a very interesting moment for all of us to
concentrate more on the growth imperatives,” he said. “How can
growth be generated in Europe in the context of continued
budgetary discipline?” Monti said. “I think most of the extra
growth will have to come maybe by coordinated macroeconomic
policies at the G-8, G-20 level, but as far as the EU is
concerned, mainly it will have to come from structural reform or
supply-side measures within Europe.”  Even the stronger European economies have room to further
loosen restrictions, he said.  “Even in  Germany  there is scope for greater
liberalization,” he said.  “If Germany fully went to the opening up of its domestic
services sector, that will stimulate its own growth” as well as
European growth, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Davis  in New York via 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  