-- Live, From the Nation’s Capital, It’s … the Supreme Court: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-09T00:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/live-from-a-courtroom-in-washington-d-c-it-s-the-supreme-court-view.html
Porcinophobia, fear of hams, is the
main thing keeping the justices of the  Supreme Court  from
opening their proceedings to television. They are afraid that
showoff lawyers will perform for the cameras, rather than for
the court, thereby lowering the tone to the level of, well,
television.  This would be an odd way for lawyers to react. After all,
the most important consideration -- for themselves and their own
futures, as well as for their clients -- will remain winning the
case. And if the justices do let the cameras in, it will be with
gritted teeth (if not over their dead bodies, as former Justice
David Souter described his lack of enthusiasm). They are likely
to be more hostile, not less, to any sign of hamming it up.  The question of the Supreme Court allowing cameras in its
courtroom is not new -- that  Souter quote  is from 1996. But it
has renewed relevance and urgency thanks to next month’s oral
arguments over the constitutionality of the Obama
administration’s health-care law, a five-and-a-half-hour
marathon scheduled for March 26-28. The court is  now considering
requests  from scores of lawmakers and media organizations,
including Bloomberg News, to open its proceedings to TV cameras.  Too Few Seats  Supreme Court oral arguments are  riveting . Now, the only
people who get to see them are the tiny number who can fit
inside the courtroom. There has been creeping availability of
audio (though not yet streaming audio) in recent years, with
 sound recordings  released after years, then at the end of each
year, then at the end of each week, then occasionally right
away.  So it’s clear where this train is heading, and there’s no
good reason it shouldn’t get there sooner. How about
immediately?  Is there any magic to the current number of people who can
be squeezed into an oral argument? If the  Supreme Court building 
were remodeled to double the size of the courtroom, would the
justices decide that it should be filled only halfway, to keep
the number of people who get to see it in action the same? Of
course not. So what if it quadrupled in size? Octupled? This is
how lawyers and judges like to think about things, and it leads
straight to the conclusion that an audience of millions around
the globe is just an extension of the few dozen in the courtroom
itself.  Opening up the court to TV would teach viewers two valuable
lessons about lawyers and the law. One is that judges -- even
Supreme Court justices -- shouldn’t, and generally don’t, decide
cases based on their personal preferences. They decide based on
their interpretation of the Constitution and the law.  This is a fact more often obscured than clarified by the
print media, which must condense complex rulings in a way that
broadcasting the court would avoid. Obviously, few people are
going to sit through hours of proceedings in order to have that
point drilled into their heads. But many will tune in for an
hour or so, and (in the health-care case, for example) will hear
arguments about the  Commerce Clause  so different from the
treatment of this issue in a political campaign and the coverage
of it, that a bit of this understanding will rub off on them.  The other lesson is less flattering to lawyers and judges.
In recent years, the Supreme Court bar has evolved into a
smallish group of brilliant lawyers, most of them former Supreme
Court clerks, who specialize in Supreme Court arguments. Regular
watchers of C-Span, or wherever the complete court sessions
would be broadcast, would soon see the same lawyer arguing a
different, and possibly contradictory, point about the same
issue for a different client. They may wonder, “What does he
really believe?” If too many people begin to ask themselves this
question, the entire foundation of the rule of law could be at
risk.  Most Transparent Branch  In this age of transparency, the refusal of Supreme Court
justices to allow TV cameras in their courtroom is an anomaly
that can’t last. In a way the court is already the most
transparent branch of government, because it must hear and
interrogate both sides in any case it decides, and then must
issue an opinion explaining and justifying its reasoning.
Justices who disagree with the majority must do the same.
Congress operates under no such requirement, and neither does
the president. A lot more people would appreciate these
differences if the court’s proceedings, which are public anyway,
were televised and available to the whole public.  Justices who dread the arrival of television should console
themselves that it could be worse. Real transparency for the
Supreme Court would be allowing TV cameras into their
deliberations. (That’s the step between the arguments, where
they just listen and ask questions, and the rulings, which they
deliver without debate.) Now that would be great television:
Deliberations are where the real action is. Call it “Six Angry
Men and Three Extremely Annoyed Women.”  But we don’t propose to go quite so far. Yet.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 