-- J&J Patients Improperly Solicited by Firm, Distributor Says
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 2012-02-09T21:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/j-j-patients-improperly-solicited-by-firm-distributor-says-2-.html
Recipients of  Johnson & Johnson  hip
implants recalled by the company were improperly solicited as
clients by an Atlanta  law firm  using confidential patient data,
according to lawyers defending a suit against a J&J distributor.  J&J’s DePuy unit recalled its ASR hips in 2010, prompting
at least 4,500 lawsuits. The Atlanta firm,  Childers, Schlueter &
Smith LLC , filed some of the lawsuits, including five against an
ASR distributor and sales representative. In the pre-trial
exchange of evidence, the firm got 130,000 pages of documents.  One document included patient-identifying information that
the defendants failed to black out, according to court filings.
The law firm used that information to solicit new clients, which
violates federal law protecting patient privacy, according to
lawyers for the ASR distributor and sales representative. They
are seeking sanctions against Childers Schlueter.  The motion by the ASR distributor and sales representative
claims the law firm used the information to “generate and
disseminate solicitation letters denominated as ‘advertisements’
to such patients seeking their representation.”  State Judge Alvin T. Wong didn’t rule on the issue at a
hearing today in state court in Decatur,  Georgia .  Both Hips Replaced  Childers Schlueter sued DC Medical LLC, the ASR
distributor; MJW Orthopedics, the former ASR sales
representative; and Michael J. Wright, the sole MJW shareholder.
The case was filed on behalf of Candace and Gordon Hershberger
of Georgia. She had both hips replaced with ASR devices, and
both need replacement, according to her complaint filed in
February 2011.  Childers Schlueter denied in court papers that it acted
improperly, saying DC Medical and MJW want to discourage
notification about the recall and “disparage and impugn the
professionalism” of the firm.  In August 2010, J&J recalled 93,000 ASR hips worldwide,
including 37,000 in the U.S., saying that more than 12 percent
of the devices failed within five years. J&J, based in  New
Brunswick , New Jersey, is the world’s second-largest seller of
health products.  Lawsuits describe patients in pain and immobilized by joint
dislocations, infections and  bone fractures . Their claims are
backed by surgeons who say metal debris from the hips, made from
a cobalt and chromium alloy, causes tissue death around the
joint and may increase the amount of metal ions in the
bloodstream to harmful levels.  Confidential Documents  On Dec. 1, DC Medical, MJW and Wright asked Wong to
sanction Childers Schlueter for violating an order protecting
confidential documents. It asked the judge to order that the
firm stop improperly using patient information inadvertently
left unredacted, and to return the documents in question.  In response to the motion, attorney C. Andrew Childers said
that the mailings in question were permissible advertisements,
not solicitations, to patients who may not have been notified by
the company about the ASR hip recall.  The mailings, based on a 547-page document produced by DC
Medical, didn’t violate the federal Health Insurance Portability
and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, as the defendants
claim, Childers wrote in a Jan. 3 filing. The document included
the names of orthopedic surgeons and the last names and first
initials of some patients.  It contains no “medical records, medical information, or
any information that may be subject to HIPAA,” Childers wrote.
It “was not created or maintained by any physician or other
health care provider, but rather was created and maintained” by
DC Medical, the distributor.  ‘Physical Dangers’  “Contacting persons partially identified in the document
at issue to inform them of the recall, the potential physical
dangers from the defective device, and of their legal right to
pursue a claim as a result of the recall is not a violation of
the terms of the protective order,” Childers wrote.  Childers declined to comment before the hearing.  Unlike thousands of other cases, J&J and DePuy aren’t named
as defendants in the Hershberger lawsuit. DePuy has asked to be
added as a defendant to the case. A federal judge said no.  J&J faces federal lawsuits by at least 3,269 plaintiffs,
according to U.S. District Judge  David Katz , who is coordinating
the litigation in Ohio. The company also faces more than 1,000
cases in state court in  California  and more than 200 in state
court in New Jersey. At least 900 law firms represent patients.
J&J has produced more than 18 million documents to plaintiffs.  At a Jan. 23 hearing on the federal litigation, J&J lawyer
Susan Sharko discussed the sanctions motion in state court in
Georgia. She said the patient information was protected by
HIPAA, and the company erred in disclosing the documents.  ‘No Dispute’  “There is no dispute here that this information should
have been redacted,” Sharko, of  Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP  in
 Florham Park ,  New Jersey , told Katz at a hearing in  West Palm
Beach ,  Florida . “It’s protected by HIPAA, we should have
redacted it, and we missed that in our haste getting documents
out.”  The judge said that inadvertent disclosure of protected
documents is “subject to ethical rules at multiple levels,
including but not limited to the federal rules, case law” and
his protective order.  “This court takes extremely seriously all ethical mandates
incumbent upon us as lawyers and judges to follow and will not
countenance violation of those ethical constraints and
directives,” Katz said at the hearing.  Lorie Gawreluk, a DePuy spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the sanctions litigation. She said of the pending federal
lawsuits: “DePuy will defend itself against the allegations
raised in the litigation and believes the evidence will show the
company acted appropriately and responsibly.”  The case is Candace and Gordon Hershberger v. DC Medical
LLC, 11A34982-2, State Court of DeKalb County, Georgia
(Decatur). The federal case is In Re DePuy Orthopedics Inc., ASR
Hip Implant Products Liability Litigation, 10-MD-2197, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Ohio  (Toledo).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 