-- Jets Stadium Executive Sheely Leaves Team to Start Real Estate Developer
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-02-09T17:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/jets-stadium-executive-sheely-leaves-team-to-start-real-estate-developer.html
Thad Sheely is leaving as a  New York 
Jets executive after helping the National Football League team
build a $1.6 billion stadium in  East Rutherford ,  New Jersey .  Sheely, 40, the Jets’ vice president for stadium
development and finance, said he’ll start a real-estate
development company based in New York. The Jets and Super Bowl-
champion  New York Giants  each borrowed $650 million to build
what’s now called MetLife Stadium, which opened in 2010 adjacent
to the site of now-demolished  Giants Stadium .  “It really was a great opportunity to be involved in a
project of this scale,” Sheely said in a telephone interview.
“Not many people get to build a stadium in New York for two NFL
teams. Now that the stadium’s built and sold, I’m ready for my
next challenge.”  Sheely received one of the SportsBusiness Journal’s “Forty
Under 40” awards in 2010 for his role in the stadium project.
Along with football, the facility has hosted college sports,
international soccer and concerts.  “Thad’s a bright, driven visionary who thrives off the
challenge of building successful enterprises,” Jets owner  Woody Johnson  said in an e-mail to the team’s staff. “His
considerable abilities will serve him well as he moves on to the
world of New York City real estate.”  Olympics Project  The Stanford Graduate School of Business alumnus joined the
Jets in 2001 after working with basketball’s Miami Heat to
construct an arena in that city’s downtown. He also helped run
the Jets’ campaign for a stadium on  Manhattan ’s West Side linked
to an unsuccessful New York bid for the 2012 Olympics.  Sheely’s new company, called Gridworks Development, will
focus on projects in transitional neighborhoods and provide
advice on public-private projects.  Sheely said Johnson’s vision and investment drove the
stadium project and turned the Jets into a first-class
franchise. The Jets reached the American Football Conference
championship game after the 2009 and 2010 seasons, before
finishing 8-8 and missing the playoffs in 2011.  “It’s been fun going along for the ride,” he said. “He’s
committed a ton of resources to get us where we are today.”  Matt Higgins , the Jets’ executive vice president of
business operations, said last month he would leave the team to
go into business for himself. Bob Parente, the team’s senior
vice president of programming and media production, will run
business operations on an interim basis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  