-- KBC Plans to Repay More Aid This Year, Issues Token Dividend
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-02-09T17:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/kbc-plans-to-repay-more-aid-this-year-issues-token-dividend-1-.html
KBC Groep NV (KBC) ,  Belgium ’s biggest bank
and insurer by market value, plans further repayments of state
aid this year after writedowns on Greek bonds and mounting loan
losses in Ireland and  Hungary  led the bank to cut its  dividend .  Shareholders will receive a “symbolic” dividend of 1 cent
a share, a condition for interest payments on the government
funds, Brussels-based KBC said today in a statement. Fourth-
quarter profit excluding some items fell to 161 million euros
($214 million) from 168 million euros a year earlier after KBC
made the biggest additions to loan-loss provisions in two years.
Analysts projected  earnings  of 244 million euros, the average of
11 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  KBC said it’s making “considerable progress” with the
planned sale of  Kredyt Bank SA (KRB)  after the disposal of its Polish
insurance business will help boost its core Tier 1 ratio to 12
percent from 10.6 percent at the end of last year. The Belgian
bank agreed with the European Commission to reimburse 4.67
billion euros, net of penalty payments, of the 7 billion euros
in state aid received by December 2013. KBC has until the end of
this year to repay a remaining 3 billion euros of federal
government funds before the penalty rate increases to 20 percent
from 15 percent.  “Overall results look a bit light driven by impairments,”
 Albert Ploegh , an analyst at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam, wrote in
an investor note. “Including state aid outstanding by 2013, KBC
could report a core Tier 1 slightly over 9 percent on our
forecasts, which could reassure the market further.”  No Deadline  KBC gained 1.38 euros, or 8.2 percent, to 18.07 euros at
5:40 p.m. on Euronext Brussels, the highest closing value since
Oct. 13. The shares have lost  41 percent  in the past 12 months,
which compares with a 29 percent decline in the 49-company Stoxx
600 Banks Index in the same period.  Chief Financial Officer Luc Popelier said on a conference
call with analysts today that KBC doesn’t face a deadline of
repaying all outstanding state aid by Nov. 18, 2014, when a
European Union-imposed ban on acquisitions expires.  Extending reimbursement over time minimizes the risk of a
 dilutive share sale  to meet tougher capital rules as KBC got
assurances from the Belgian national bank that the government
rescue funds will continue to be considered as common equity.  KBC already reimbursed 500 million euros of federal
 government aid  last month and made a 75 million-euro penalty
payment. It has to repay the 3.5 billion euros of Flemish
government rescue funds at a penalty rate of 50 percent.  Structured Notes  Profit was held back in the fourth quarter by an additional
85 million-euro pretax impairment on Greek  government bonds  and
a further 71 million-euro provision to compensate clients who
bought structured notes linked to government bonds of five euro-
area nations including  Greece  for a potential payment default.  KBC sold an additional 1.7 billion euros of Italian
government bonds during the quarter. Holdings of Greek,
Portuguese, Irish, Italian and Spanish sovereign debt fell to
4.8 billion euros by the end of December from 10 billion euros a
year earlier. KBC’s  government-bond portfolio  now totals about
51 billion euros.  The bank forecast loan losses in Ireland could increase to
as much as 600 million euros this year from 510 million euros
last year and 525 million euros in 2010. It faced arrears of at
least three months on almost 18 percent of its 16.7 billion
euros of loans in the country at the end of last year, up from
15 percent three months earlier.  Three-Year Loans  KBC converted 300 million euros of subordinated debt into
equity to bolster KBC Bank Ireland Plc’s capital following a 268
million-euro loss last year. The bank also said it took 3.2
billion euros in three-year loans from the  European Central
Bank , mostly backed by Irish mortgages, to make its subsidiary
in the country less dependent on group funding.  An additional 100 million euros of three-year loans was
drawn from the ECB by KBC’s bank unit in the  Slovak Republic ,
Popelier said on the call. At the same time, KBC had 6.1 billion
euros of deposits at the ECB as of Dec. 31, according to a
presentation on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  