-- King Is Following Greenspan Into Credit ‘Debacle,’ SocGen’s Edwards Says
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-02-09T17:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/king-is-following-greenspan-into-credit-debacle-socgen-s-edwards-says.html
Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King
is mimicking “ruinous” Federal Reserve monetary policies that
led to the current financial crisis, Societe Generale SA’s top-
ranked strategist  Albert Edwards  said.  “There is a healthy debate in the U.S. about the
culpability of the former and current heads of the Fed for the
inevitable debacle,” Edwards, who predicted the Asian currency
meltdown of the late 1990s, said in a phone interview today.
King is “similarly responsible for presiding over a copycat
catastrophe.”  The Bank of England said today it will pump another 50
billion pounds ($79 billion) into the economy as it ramps up
protection for a nascent recovery. The Monetary Policy Committee
raised its  target for bond purchases  to 325 billion pounds, more
than a quarter of current outstanding gilts.  “It is the monetary authorities in both the U.S. and U.K.
who are almost wholly responsible for allowing this lax monetary
environment and the boom and bust in their respective
economies,” Edwards wrote in a report today. “Not the over-
exuberant actions of lenders and borrowers.”  Former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan  cut  interest rates  at
the start of the last decade in a move critics say helped create
a debt bubble years later. Under current head  Ben S. Bernanke ,
the Fed reduced rates to a record low and embarked on a policy
of buying bonds, known as quantitative easing, to ease the cost
of borrowing and stimulate growth.  U.K.’s Economy Shrinks  Britain’s economy  shrank 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter,
its first contraction in a year. Annual  consumer-price inflation 
eased to 4.2 percent in December. Even so, the benchmark  FTSE
100 Index (UKX)  has  rallied 19 percent  from last year’s low as
investors speculated that the euro area will contain its
sovereign-debt crisis. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George
Osborne  said on Jan. 25 that Britain had “substantial economic
problems” and “dealing with those problems is made more
difficult by the situation in the euro zone.”  More than $37 trillion was wiped off the  value of equities 
worldwide between October 2007 and March 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, as credit markets froze and governments
from the U.S. to the U.K. rescued failing banks.  Edwards also said that King and Greenspan should be
stripped of their knighthoods after the British government last
month removed the title from former  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS)  Chief Executive Officer  Fred Goodwin  for leading the 285-
year-old lender into the world’s biggest bank bailout.  Losing Knighthoods  Britain’s  Honours Forfeiture Committee  in January decided
that Goodwin should lose his knighthood for services to banking
in the light of the collapse. The Committee judges whether any
individual honored has brought the system into disrepute and
cites criminal offense and peer censorship as two reasons to
withdraw the honor, according to its website.  “Central bankers have been working very hard,” Edwards
wrote. “Working hard that is, to deflect blame away from
themselves. If knighthoods are being removed for those held
primarily responsible for the 2008 economic collapse, Sir Alan
Greenspan and Sir  Mervyn King  should also be stripped of their
honors.”  A spokesman at the Bank of England declined to comment,
asking not to be identified in line with the institution’s
policy. Katie Broom, a spokeswoman at Greenspan Associates,
could not be reached for a comment.  Greenspan Focus  Terry Smith , chairman of Tullett Prebon Ltd. in London,
wrote on his blog on Feb. 2 that if the U.K. government is
removing honors from those who may have contributed to the
financial crisis, “surely attention should now focus on the
honorary knighthood bestowed upon Alan Greenspan in 2002.”  The Bank of England will assume regulatory controls of
lenders next year after the most sweeping reforms to banking
regulation since 1997 disbanded the U.K.’s Financial Services
Authority.  “King is largely more responsible than Goodwin for the
collapse in the U.K. banking sector, and should be held to
account,” Edwards said in the interview. “Instead, the man and
the institution are being given more power.”  Edwards and colleagues at Paris-based Societe Generale were
voted  Europe ’s best economy and strategy team in the 2011
Thomson Extel survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  