-- King May Add to Gilt Stash in Insurance Gambit
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-02-09T08:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/king-may-add-79-billion-to-gilt-stash-to-insure-against-crisis-contagion.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
may pump another 50 billion pounds ($79 billion) into the U.K.
economy today as he ramps up protection for a nascent recovery
from the threat posed by Europe’s debt crisis.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee will raise the
target for bond purchases to 325 billion pounds, more than a
quarter of current outstanding gilts, according to 34 of 50
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Fifteen economists
forecast a 75 billion-pound increase and one no change. The bank
will announce the decision at noon in  London .  Indexes of services, manufacturing and construction all
showed growth in January, suggesting the U.K.’s  fourth-quarter
contraction  may not mark the start of a second recession. Still,
officials in  Greece  are struggling to obtain the political
assent needed to secure a second bailout and help stem turmoil
in the euro area that has threatened Britain’s economy.  “It’s a choice of doing too much, and creating too much
growth and inflation, or doing nothing, and scaring the gilt
market while choking off the recovery,” said  Alan Clarke , an
economist at  Scotia Capital  in London. “Given the choice
between those two extremes, I’d go with too much growth every
time. So on balance, they’ll do another 50 billion.”  The pound rose 0.2 percent today, and traded at $1.5844 at
8:43 a.m. in London.  Gilt Yields  Policy makers have primed investors to expect another round
of so-called quantitative easing after they completed 75 billion
pounds of bond purchases this month. King said Jan. 24 the
central bank has “scope” to add to stimulus, while  Adam Posen 
said last week there’s a case for another 75 billion pounds.  The bank’s 275 billion pounds of bond purchases since early
2009 have pushed bond yields to a record low. The yield on the
10-year gilt fell to 1.917 percent on Jan. 18, the lowest since
Bloomberg began compiling the data in 1989, and traded at 2.167
percent today.  Policy makers will also hold their benchmark  interest rate 
at a record-low 0.5 percent today, according to all 56
economists in a separate poll. The MPC will make its decisions
based on new forecasts, which it will publish on Feb. 15. Its
November projections showed  inflation  slowing below the 2
percent target by the end of this year. Annual price gains eased
to 4.2 percent in December.  Growth Expectations  London- and Rotterdam-based  Unilever (ULVR) , the world’s second-
largest consumer-goods maker, on Feb. 2 reported the weakest
volume growth in almost three years in the fourth quarter and
said it expects “gloomy” economic conditions to persist this
year.  Signs of recovery may have dented the chances of a majority
of officials voting for a 75 billion-pound increase in stimulus.
A Feb. 3 survey showed U.K.  services output  grew the most in 10
months in January. Separate gauges last week indicated
manufacturing returned to growth and construction continued to
expand. In the U.S., the  unemployment rate  fell to 8.3 percent
last month, the lowest since February 2009. Europe’s Stoxx 600
Index had its best January in 14 years and is up 7.9 percent
this year.  After the services report, economists at Deutsche Bank AG,
Morgan Stanley and  JPMorgan Chase & Co . revised their  Bank of
England  QE forecast to 50 billion pounds from 75 billion pounds.  ‘Aggressive Path’  “A majority on the committee will not feel a need to
follow through on the more aggressive path of action implied by
the central inflation forecast back in November,” Malcolm Barr,
an economist at JPMorgan, said in a note. “Rising equity
prices, improved bank funding conditions, and survey data in the
U.K. and elsewhere are giving some grounds to revise up
expectations of growth.”  The European Central Bank’s Governing Council also meets
today and will probably leave its  benchmark rate  at 1 percent,
according to 55 of 57 economists in another survey. The other
two forecast a cut to 0.75 percent. The bank will announce the
decision at 1:45 p.m. in  Frankfurt  and President  Mario Draghi 
will hold a press conference 45 minutes later.  Risks from turmoil in  Europe  support the case for
continuing U.K. stimulus. The National Institute for Economic
and Social Research, whose clients include the U.K. Treasury and
the Bank of England, said the economy is back in recession and
will shrink 0.1 percent this year. Researcher  Simon Kirby  said a
return to growth depends on “decisive action” in the euro
area.  Greek Meeting  A meeting last night of Greek party leaders with Prime
Minister  Lucas Papademos  to settle terms to secure a rescue
package didn’t resolve a dispute on pension cuts. A failure to
secure a bailout could mean Greece defaults on a bond payment
due in March and spark contagion across the euro area, which
buys almost half of British exports and where U.K. banks are
exposed to more than $1 trillion of borrowings.  “The MPC will acknowledge that there are some welcome
signs of improvement,” said Adam Chester, an economist at
Lloyds TSB Bank in London and a former Bank of England official.
“They may be cautiously optimistic, but they need to take
account of the small risk that things could get a lot worse in
Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  