-- KKR Profit Falls 68% as Market Volatility Erodes Income From Investments
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-02-09T21:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/kkr-profit-falls-68-as-market-volatility-erodes-income-from-investments.html
KKR & Co. , the private equity firm
run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , said fourth-quarter
profit fell 68 percent as investment income declined.  Economic net income after taxes, a measure of profit
excluding some costs, dropped to $225.5 million, or 33 cents a
share, from $697.2 million, or $1.02, a year earlier,  New York- 
based KKR said in a statement today. Analysts had expected a
profit of 75 cents, according to the average of 13  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The funds grew less in 2011 than in 2010, and that’s why
you see the ENI down,”  Scott Nuttall , KKR’s head of global
capital, said on a call with news media, referring to the firm’s
private equity portfolio. “We’re really proud, given the global
markets were down 5 percent and the world was as weird as it was
last year.”  Market volatility slowed gains at the firm’s funds, which
increased 4 percent last year, compared with 33 percent in 2010,
Nuttall said. Fee-related earnings rose as KKR deployed more
capital from its private equity funds, investors added new money
and transaction fees rose at the capital markets unit, which it
started five years ago to reduce reliance on buyouts.  KKR rose 1.3 percent to close at $15.06 in New York after
falling as much as 3.8 percent earlier. The stock has gained 17
percent this year, compared with an 18 percent increase for
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s largest private equity firm.  Performance Fees  KKR’s economic net income excludes some expenses tied to a
combination with its public fund that allowed the firm to offer
shares to the public in 2010. The measure doesn’t comply with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Under those
rules, KKR reported net income of $46.1 million, or 20 cents a
share, compared with $180.6 million, or 86 cents, a year
earlier.  Blackstone last week reported its net loss widened to
$123.4 million, or 25 cents a share, in the fourth quarter from
$11 million, or 3 cents a share, a year earlier. Like KKR,
Blackstone says investors should focus on a non-standard measure
of profit that excludes some costs tied to its IPO in 2007. By
that measure, fourth-quarter profit fell 12 percent to $449.9
million as performance fees and investment income declined.  Investment income declined 72 percent to $171.1 million,
KKR said. Fee-related earnings increased 23 percent to $116.6
million as KKR executed more deals. Nuttall said the firm will
pay out a record 32 cents a unit to shareholders.  Raising Funds  KKR said it has won $6 billion so far for its next buyout
fund focused on  North America . The firm is targeting $10 billion
for its new buyout fund, and was aiming for between $5 billion
and $6 billion by the end of last year, a person with knowledge
of the plans said in November.  Blackstone last month finished raising a $16.2 billion
fund, the sixth-biggest buyout pool ever, according to Preqin
Ltd. Carlyle Group, which is preparing an IPO, is set to begin
marketing funds, according to person familiar with the plans.
Buyout funds globally are seeking to raise about $165 billion,
more than in 2006 at the height of the fundraising boom,
according to Preqin.  KKR completed $27 billion of deals last year, with $13
billion in the fourth quarter, said Nuttall. That included the
biggest buyout of the year when KKR agreed in November to
purchase closely held Samson Investment Co., the Tulsa,
Oklahoma-based oil and gas producer, for $7.2 billion to
capitalize on increased production of shale-based oil and gas.  Biggest LBO  Earlier that month, KKR hired Claire Scobee Farley and
David Rockecharlie, energy-industry bankers from Jefferies &
Co., as managing directors focusing on the firm’s oil and gas
investments. Farley and Rockecharlie founded Houston-based RPM
Energy LLC, which helps manage those investments.  The volume of private equity deals last year increased
about 29 percent from 2010 to $449.6 billion as access to credit
continued to improve following the global financial crisis,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  This year, the industry is defending itself from attacks by
rivals of Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , who say
the former Bain Capital chief executive officer enriched himself
at the cost of corporations and their employees while running
the firm.  Kravis and Roberts, like competitors at New York-based
Blackstone and Washington-based  Carlyle (CG) , have sought to expand
their business beyond buyouts. KKR oversees $15 billion of
assets in its credit business, which invests in bank loans,
mezzanine capital and special situation, and has broadened the
capital-markets business it began in 2007, Roberts told a
financial services conference in December.  KKR oversaw $59 billion as of Dec. 31, with 74 percent in
private markets and the remainder in public markets. That
excludes the commitments the firm has received for its new fund,
which it expects to close next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  