-- Kodak Phasing Out Digital Camera, Picture Frame Division Under Bankruptcy
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-02-09T19:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/kodak-phasing-out-digital-camera-picture-frame-division-under-bankruptcy.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EK) , the photography
pioneer that filed for bankruptcy last month, said it will phase
out the unit that makes digital cameras, pocket video cameras
and digital picture frames.  Kodak will seek to license its brand to other makers of the
devices as it exits cameras in the first half of 2012, the
Rochester, New York-based company said today in a statement. It
will book a $30 million charge and estimates saving $100 million
annually, while pledging to honor warranties and provide
technical support.  The move reduces Kodak’s consumer offerings to printing
photos and selling film and inkjet printers, as the 131-year-old
imaging company shrinks into a digital-printing specialist that
intends to sell more faster, flexible commercial and consumer
digital printers to profit from ink sales.  Kodak filed Chapter 11 last month after years of burning
through cash when digital dissolved its film business. The
company that pioneered the digital-imaging technology that
gutted its iconic photography business has shed 47,000 employees
since 2003 and closed 13 factories that produced film, paper and
chemicals, along with 130 photo laboratories. The restructuring
has already cost $3.4 billion.  Patent Sale  Kodak is trying to sell more than 1,100 digital-imaging
patents, and is pursuing device makers including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
Research In Motion Ltd. for patent-infringements, maintaining
the companies owe it royalty payments.  Bankruptcy makes it easier for Kodak to sell assets to pay
for layoffs, U.K. and U.S. employee pensions and health-care
benefits, and provide capital needed to install a big enough
base of digital printers to eventually be profitable.  Kodak also has asked the  bankruptcy court  in  Manhattan  for
permission to end its naming rights sponsorship of the Kodak
Theatre in  Los Angeles , which hosts the annual Academy Awards,
citing significant savings from the termination.  CIM/H&H Media LP, the company that assumed the contract,
said in a court filing yesterday that the name recognition of
the Kodak Theatre “is the precise benefit Kodak sought in
entering into the 20-year sponsorship agreement.” Backing out
of the agreement is “not only legally impermissible, but
practically impossible,” CIM/H&H Media said.  Kodak is obligated to pay $72 million over 20 years,
CIM/H&H Media said.  The case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  