-- Kodak Theatre Must Keep Name Despite Bankruptcy, Company Says
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-02-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/kodak-theatre-must-keep-name-despite-bankruptcy-sponsorship-company-says.html
Bankrupt  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  shouldn’t
be allowed to give up naming rights to the Kodak Theatre in  Los
Angeles , which hosts the annual Academy Awards show, the company
governing the sponsorship argued.  Kodak asked a  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan  for
permission to end the sponsorship contract, citing significant
savings from the termination.  CIM/H&H Media LP, the company that assumed the contract,
said in a court filing yesterday that the name recognition of
the Kodak Theatre “is the precise benefit Kodak sought in
entering into the 20-year sponsorship agreement” and that
backing out of the agreement is “not only legally
impermissible, but practically impossible.”  Kodak is obligated to pay $72 million over 20 years,
CIM/H&H Media claims.  Signs on the Kodak Theatre, as well as in and around the
shopping center where it is located, on street signs, freeway
off-ramps, maps, and brochures, make undoing the agreement
impossible, according to the filing. With the 2012 Oscars less
than three weeks away, “disassociating the Kodak name from the
theater before the Academy Awards show, the major event, is not
practically feasible,” according to the filing.  The Kodak Theatre has hosted the Academy Awards since 2001,
according to the theater’s  website . The 84th awards show is
scheduled for Feb. 26. Kodak, based in Rochester,  New York ,
filed for bankruptcy last month.  Andrew Dietderich, a lawyer for Kodak, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment after regular business hours
yesterday.  The case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at
   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  