-- New Jersey Senate Committee Again Passes Measure to Ban Fracking for Gas
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-02-09T19:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/new-jersey-senate-committee-again-passes-measure-to-ban-fracking-for-gas.html
The  New Jersey (STONJ1)  Senate for a second
time moved a bill out of committee that would prohibit fracking
for natural gas in the most densely populated U.S. state.  New Jersey was set to have the first U.S. statewide ban on
the shale-gas extraction method known as fracking, after a
bipartisan measure passed the Legislature in June. Governor
 Chris Christie , a Republican, issued a “conditional veto” of
the bill in August, saying he wanted a one-year moratorium while
he waited for the results of two federal studies.  Democratic lawmakers’ push for a fracking ban is
“nonsense,” Christie told reporters today in Trenton. There is
no urgency for such a prohibition in a state that doesn’t
produce natural gas, he said.  “Really? We’re going to ban fracking in a state where no
one wants to frack?” Christie said. “Even if we say the
practice is good, nobody’s coming here to frack. There’s no
shale. This is the type of nonsense they engage in because
they’re grappling for political advantage.”  Fracking, or hydraulic fracturing, is a process by which
companies inject water, sand and chemicals under high pressure
thousands of feet underground to break up shale-rock formations
and release trapped gas. Advances in the technology have pushed
shale gas to almost 30 percent of U.S. production in the past 15
years, according to data from the U.S. Energy Department.  One Year  Environmental groups say fracking contaminates drinking
water and pollutes the air. The Environmental Protection Agency
is studying the issue and weighing nationwide regulations.
France and  Bulgaria  have banned the practice, while Ohio is
considering tougher drilling rules in response to unprecedented
earthquakes in fracking areas.  Christie’s moratorium, which lawmakers agreed to last
month, expires in January. The delay in deciding on a permanent
prohibition will allow government to “study the environmental
effects of fracking so we have a factual scientific basis to
make a judgment on this practice,” Christie said today.  While New Jersey produces no natural gas, the Utica Shale
formation, a largely unexplored deposit running from Ontario,
 Canada , to  Tennessee (STOTN1) , lies partly under Warren and Sussex
counties in the state’s northwest. A ban would head off future
fracking in an area that provides almost half of  New Jersey  with
drinking water, Senator  Robert Gordon , a Democrat from Fair Lawn
who sponsored the bill, said in a Feb. 6 telephone interview.  The measure unanimously passed the Senate Environment and
Energy Committee and is headed to the full Senate. It also needs
Assembly approval before it can reach Christie’s desk.  Democrats control the Assembly, 48-32, and the Senate,
24-16, and would need a two-thirds majority, or 54 members in
the Assembly and 27 in the Senate, to override Christie vetoes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  