-- NHL’s Red Wings to Host Maple Leafs in Michigan Stadium Winter Classic
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-02-09T18:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/nhl-s-red-wings-to-host-maple-leafs-in-michigan-stadium-winter-classic.html
The  Detroit  Red Wings will host the
Toronto Maple Leafs in the National Hockey League’s outdoor
Winter Classic on Jan. 1, 2013, at the University of  Michigan ’s
football stadium, a game that could draw the sport’s largest
crowd.  The New Year’s Day game will be the marquee event of a week
of hockey staged in Detroit, the NHL said in a press conference
today. The university is in  Ann Arbor , Michigan, about 40 miles
west.  Comerica Park, home of Major League Baseball’s Detroit
Tigers, will stage games featuring high school, college and
minor professional teams, the NHL said. Mike Ilitch owns the Red
Wings, the Tigers and Comerica Park.  The NHL will pay the university $3 million to rent the
stadium for the event, the  Detroit Free Press   reported , citing
Michigan athletic director Dave Brandon.  Two years ago, the University of Michigan beat Michigan
State University 5-0 in front of a record crowd of 104,173, a
game dubbed the  Big Chill at the Big House . That game eclipsed
the previous mark of 77,803 for a 2010 International Ice Hockey
Federation World Championship game in  Germany ’s Veltins Arena, a
retractable-roof soccer stadium.  The 2013 Winter Classic will mark the sixth consecutive
year that the NHL holds an outdoor game around the new year. The
Jan. 1, 2011, game between the Pittsburgh Penguins and the
Washington Capitals was the most-watched regular-season NHL game
since 1975, with 4.5 million viewers, according to NBC. Five of
the six most-watched NHL games in the past 37 years have been
Winter Classics, the network said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  