-- Nigeria’s Naira Advances Third Day on Oil Company Dollar Sales
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-02-09T11:54:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/nigeria-s-naira-advances-third-day-on-oil-company-dollar-sales.html
Nigeria ’s naira strengthened for a
third day as oil producers sold dollars to fund operations in
the West African nation and after the government sold bills.  The currency of Africa’s biggest oil producer advanced as
much as 0.9 percent to 158.60 per dollar, the strongest level in
more than a week, before trading 0.5 percent higher at 159.15 on
the  interbank market  at 12:30 p.m. in Lagos, the commercial
capital, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The naira has gained 0.7 percent this week, set for its
second weekly advance, after the government sold 149.3 billion
naira ($938 million) of three-, six- and 12-month bills. Lower
demand for dollars by importers after cutbacks in fuel subsidies
also buoyed the currency, according to the central bank.  “The stronger naira reflects a combination of factors,
including foreign-exchange sales from  oil companies  as well as
some inflows from offshore accounts to fund their T-bill
purchases,”  Samir Gadio , an emerging markets strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd. in London, said in an e-mailed reply to
questions today.  President  Goodluck Jonathan  backtracked on an earlier
decision to scrap a fuel subsidy in Nigeria after gasoline costs
more than doubled, prompting protests and strikes. He has not
reinstated the subsidy to levels that existed prior to the
withdrawal, agreeing only to a partial reduction. Gasoline
prices in Africa’s most populous country surged by almost 50
percent last month, stoking inflation which touched 10.3 percent
in December.  Moderating Demand  “We have seen a moderation in the demand for foreign
exchange perhaps especially from the petroleum sector,” central
bank Deputy Governor Tunde Lemo told a public hearing of a  House
of Representatives  committee investigating fuel subsidy
discrepancies Feb. 7 in Abuja, the capital.  The nation’s foreign-exchange reserves increased 5.5
percent this year to $34.7 billion as of Feb. 2, according to
central bank data. Nigeria’s central bank offers foreign
currency to lenders at twice-weekly auctions and also sells
dollars directly to banks through the interbank market by
dipping into reserves, as it tries to keep the  exchange rate 
around a midpoint of 155 naira per dollar and stabilize prices.  Ghana’s cedi weakened 0.6 percent to 1.6979 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  