-- Prices to Stay Low Amid Competition: Nippon Steel
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2012-02-10T06:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/nippon-steel-says-prices-to-stay-low-amid-competition-for-orders.html
Nippon Steel Corp. (5401) ,  Japan ’s biggest
steelmaker, expects prices to stay low this year as global
producers of the metal used in cars, ships and construction
continue to compete for orders amid slowing demand.  “The current situation won’t change so easily,” Executive
Vice President Shinichi Taniguchi said in an interview in Tokyo.
“The yen is also likely to remain high,” putting Japanese
mills at a disadvantage compared with their Chinese and South
Korean rivals, he said.  Nippon Steel, which relies on exports for 40 percent of its
shipments, and other Japanese mills posted losses in the quarter
ended December after the yen averaged 6.7 percent higher against
the dollar and cooling economies in  China  and  Europe  kept
overseas orders muted. Prices of benchmark hot-rolled coils may
average 5 percent lower in 2012, according to calculations based
on data from Steel Business Briefing in  London .  “The strong yen is hitting Japanese manufacturers like a
body blow,” Taniguchi said. “We expect an oversupply of steel
in  Korea , Japan and China.”  The yen’s strength has eroded profits at Japanese exporters
such as Sharp Corp. and Honda Motor Co. as faltering global
growth undermines demand. The yen averaged 77.33 per dollar in
the quarter ended December compared with 82.50 a year earlier.
It climbed to a post-World War II high of 75.35 Oct. 31.  “Exports won’t be profitable with the yen at current
levels,”  Shinya Yamada , an analyst at Credit Suisse Securities
Japan Ltd., said by telephone. “The appropriate levels for
Japanese steelmakers to compete with their overseas rivals would
be 85 yen or lower.”  Strong Yen  Nippon Steel has  slumped  34 percent in Tokyo in the past
year, compared with the 26 percent drop in  Baoshan Iron & Steel
Co.  in Shanghai and  Posco (005490) ’s 14 percent decline in Seoul. The
Japanese steelmaker closed 2.4 percent lower at 202 yen.  Japan, the second-largest producer of the metal after China,
cut exports by 4 percent in the first 11 months of 2011,
according to a presentation by Nippon Steel Jan. 27. The
country’s four blast-furnace steelmakers forecast second-half
losses of 115 billion yen ($1.5 billion) as the yen exacerbated
the slump in Asian demand, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on the companies’ earnings statements.  Average product prices will fall by 5,600 yen a metric ton,
or 6 percent, to about 82,000 yen a ton in the current three
months, compared with the preceding quarter, Nippon Steel said
in January. It cut its full-year profit forecast to break even.  Steel Merger  While Nippon Steel and its merger partner  Sumitomo Metal
Industries Ltd. (5405)  plan to expand in  emerging markets , including
construction of blast furnace steel plants, they are also
seeking to bolster domestic operations to help boost earnings,
Taniguchi said at Nippon Steel’s headquarters.  The companies, which received approval in December to merge
and create the world’s second-biggest steelmaker, said in
September that the combined entity aims to save 150 billion yen
annually after three years by cutting production and purchasing
costs and sharing technology.  “The companies will need to meet their target faster than
the current plan and create more synergies” to counter the
intensifying competition, Credit Suisse’s Yamada said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in  Tokyo  at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 