-- Nissan $98,000 ‘Godzilla’ GT-R Supercar Stomps Ferrari, Porsche
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-02-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/nissan-98-000-godzilla-gt-r-supercar-stomps-ferrari-porsche.html
It’s called “Godzilla,” and the
nickname is apt. The Nissan GT-R is fully capable of frightening
children and terrorizing cities.  With a starting price of less than $100,000, this Japanese
sports coupe will go horse to raging horse with the Ferrari 458
Italia and  Porsche 911  Turbo, cars vastly more expensive. It’s a
supercar on the relative cheap.  The Ferrari and Porsche are dual in nature: Quick enough to
bend physics yet docile enough to scoot around town. The GT-R’s
only two modes are viciously fast and off. “Off” as in engine
dead, doors locked, driver elsewhere.  This coupe is out-and-out brutal, beating drivers and
passengers into Silly Putty. Glorious, so long as you like that
kind of thing.  That  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  even has a supercar is a surprise to
some. The GT-R is an awkward fit among sedate Maximas and all-
electric Leafs. Yet it’s been around a long time as  Japan ’s
Skyline GT-R. Legendary, but until 2008 officially unavailable
in the U.S.  That year the GT-R arrived with all-wheel-drive, a twin-
turbo V-6 and 480 horsepower. I tested it on racetrack and
highway. Though taken with the immoderate performance, it left
me just a tiny bit cold.  It was in fact rather reptilian, missing the warm-blooded
heat of less technical  sports cars . Too many computer chips
interacting between the driver and the mechanicals. The GT-R had
a tendency to drive for you, washing away human error in a
stream of digital code.  More Muscle  The car has been updated continually, and the 2012 model --
the one I tested -- got a big bump in power, to 530 hp and 448
pound-feet of torque. The 2013 model is even mightier, with 545
hp and 463 pound-feet. All that from a 3.8-liter, twin-turbo V-
6.  The 2012 model started at around $91,000, whereas the 2013
is closer to $98,000. The only options on my premium version
were the $280 floor mats with GT-R logos.  There are external differences since the first model, most
notably in the rear, which finally looks exotic with a rim of
carbon fiber and four fat tailpipes. The Frisbee-sized
taillights glow devil-red at night.  This thing is a koan to impracticality, a paean to muscle.
The hood is grossly oversized; the rims overflow the wheels.
This is a thick-necked bull rather than a long-jointed sprinter.
And that’s exactly the way it drives. The GT-R doesn’t slip-
steam through space or dart down the road; it drops a shoulder
and razes everything in its path.  The wide, grabby tires chuck gravel up into the wheel-wells
where they noisily ricochet around before finally being spit
out. All that rubber gives more grip than you could ever
possibly need on a public road.  Calculated Curves  You rarely need to get on the brakes for a curve; just come
off the gas and let the well-balanced car settle; the tires set
on a line and carry you through.  The car’s sizable weight makes it tough to change a line
mid-corner, but it’s so calculated, so smart, you can hew to a
turn and barely move the wheel. No minute corrections needed.
Interestingly, it feels less digital than the earlier models.
Far more engaging, if still not exactly organic.  It’s a noisy machine. It doesn’t try to magic away its
nature, cloaking power with silky shifts or sound-deadening
materials. Rather it whines and clunks and grunts even at slow
speeds. Even the paddle shifters are loud, each upshift comes
with a metallic click and then a shudder as the next gear
engages.  The car would soon become insufferable to even the most
speed-loving passenger. Nobody wants to be in this ride for long
unless you’re the one hooked into the driver seat with a direct
connection from the steering wheel to your adrenaline glands.  Thrills and Spills  There is a comfort setting for the granite-like suspension.
While the light goes amber when you push it down, I suspect it’s
actually a placebo. Driving around  Manhattan  at even the slowest
speeds managed to shake out streams of coffee from a half-full
cup.  The Nissan is a nightmare in a parking lot. The low nose
begs to be scraped, the turning radius is lousy and every time
you put it in reverse a beeping noise like a back-hoe erupts.  Yet blast down a back road and the sheer speed and
preciseness of the steering renders any complaint moot.  The new Porsche 911 is so fast and smooth that it’s nearly
decorous. The speedy Ferrari 458 carries you away with its
sound. The GT-R cares only for immoderate, shameless speed.  While it doesn’t look like a high-dollar supercar, it’s
actually one of the most shameless examples I’ve ever driven.  The 2012 Nissan GT-R at a Glance  Engine: 3.8-liter twin-turbo V-6 with 530 horsepower and  448 pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Automated six-speed dual clutch.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 2.9 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 16 city; 23 highway.  Price as tested: $91,230.  Best feature: Immoderate performance.  Worst feature: Noisy and clunky at slow speeds.  Target buyer: The driver who will sacrifice everything for  speed.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 