-- Nobel Biocare Falls Most Since 2010 on Forecast: Zurich Mover
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-02-09T16:52:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/nobel-biocare-fourth-quarter-profit-rises-as-demand-improves.html
Nobel Biocare Holding AG  fell the
most in almost two years in Zurich trading after the world’s
second-biggest dental implant maker forecast disappointing sales
and profit amid a slump in European revenue.  The stock declined 16 percent in Zurich, the biggest drop
since April 28, 2010. It was the biggest decliner in the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index today.  Earnings before interest and taxes will be in line with
2011 and sales will probably gain about 2 percent to 4 percent,
the Glattbrugg, Switzerland based-company said in a statement
today. Analysts had predicted a 22 percent profit increase and a
4.6 percent jump in sales, based on the  average estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Weakness in  Europe , especially in the southern part of the
continent, curbed sales growth last year and the region looks
“increasingly challenging” for 2012, Nobel Biocare said. The
company will increase spending on product development, sales,
marketing and technology this year to improve efficiency, Chief
Executive Officer Richard Laube said.  “The macro environment in Europe is clearly making life
very difficult for the company, pressure which doesn’t look like
going away any time soon,”  Tom Jones , an analyst at Berenberg
Bank in  London , said in a report to clients today. “What
matters more is whether a sustainable earnings recovery comes in
2013 and beyond. Spending a bit more now can only increase the
chances of that happening.”  Japan’s Tsunami  Sales in Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa fell 5 percent
at constant exchange rates last year. Sales in  Japan  also
dropped after the earthquake and tsunami in March. Nobel Biocare
lost its ranking as the world’s largest dental implant maker in
2010 to  Straumann Holding AG  amid weak demand in Europe,
particularly in  Spain .  Earnings before interest and tax fell 15 percent to 72.1
million euros ($96 million) in 2011. Analysts had forecast 2012
profit on that basis of 88.1 million euros, the average of 20
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are cautious on the market in 2012,” Laube said on a
conference call with analysts. “It does us no good to be over-
optimistic. Europe is increasingly challenging. It’s very
difficult for us to predict short term all of the twists and
turns that Europe will take.” He joined the company last year,
after leading Nestle SA’s Nutrition unit.  Fourth-quarter net income rose to 13.3 million euros,
missing the average estimate of 18.1 million euros from eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales rose 1 percent to 154.6
million euros. The company proposed a dividend of 15 centimes a
share, compared with 35 centimes a share in 2010.  The stock rose the most in nine years on Oct. 24 after NZZ
am Sonntag reported that EQT Partners AB and Bain Capital LLC
were considering buying the Swiss dental-implant maker. Nobel
Biocare isn’t in talks with anyone about a possible sale, Laube
said today on a conference call with reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  