-- North Korea Recruits New Yorkers to Revive Resort Where Troops Shot Guest
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-02-09T23:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/north-korea-recruits-new-yorkers-to-revive-resort-where-troops-shot-guest.html
Cash-starved  North Korea  has hired
an American company to help it revive a shuttered luxury resort
and attract tourists, a plan that has raised objections from
Seoul.  Korea Pyongyang Trading USA, a New York-based liquor
importer, is working on a plan to attract travelers to Mount
Geumgang on the east coast of North Korea, a country the U.S.
State Department permits Americans to visit while warning it has a
history of arbitrarily arresting foreigners.  The “Diamond Mountain” resort, opened in 1998 by the two
Koreas as a symbol of hope for reunification, has been closed to
South Koreans since 2008, when the late Kim Jong Il’s troops
shot and killed a guest walking on a restricted beach.  Simon T. Bai, 67, director of marketing and planning for
Korea Pyongyang, said the company wants Americans to visit North
Korea to give the nation exposure to freedom and democracy. The
company was hired in July to study opening a casino at Geumgang,
according to documents it submitted to the  U.S. Department of
Justice  in December under the Foreign Agents Registration Act.  “We’re doing this with hopes that resuming tours to
Geumgang could help open North Korea up, and thereby help  unite
the two Koreas  again,” Bai said in a telephone interview from
his home in Queens, New York, which serves as the company’s
headquarters. “Isn’t this the kind of business that’s really
worth doing?”  Unit of Hyundai  The South Korean government sees it differently. It says
the plans infringe upon the rights of  Hyundai Asan Corp (HYASCZ) ., a
Seoul-based company that was the resort’s operator until South
Koreans were banned. Hyundai Asan is a unit of  Hyundai Group ,
the holding company best known in the U.S. for having once owned
Hyundai Motor Co.,  South Korea ’s largest automaker. Hyundai Asan
spent $487 million building the resort.  “Hyundai Asan exclusively holds the license to operate
tours at Mount Geumgang, and it is unfair to give business to
others,” Park Soo Jin, the deputy spokeswoman of South Korea’s
Unification Ministry, the government agency charged with working
toward recombining the two Koreas, said in a telephone
interview. “This is what we have clearly specified and it is a
wrongful violation of the agreements to act otherwise.”  Mountain Peaks  Hyundai Asan hasn’t officially received any information
from the North about its agreement with Korea Pyongyang, the
company said in an e-mail responding to a Bloomberg query last
week.  Bai declined to comment on Hyundai Asan. North Korea and
the U.S. don’t have diplomatic or consular relations, and North
Korea’s mission at the  United Nations  in  New York  said it didn’t
have any information on plans for the resort.  The project around Mount Geumgang spans 37 miles (60
kilometers) near the demilitarized zone, capped by mountain
peaks rising more than 5,000 feet (1,524 meters). The resort,
which features an 18-hole golf course, karaoke bars and hot
springs, was one of several projects aimed at building relations
between the two Koreas, which remain technically at war since
the 1950-53 conflict ended in a cease-fire, not a peace treaty.  It drew more than 1.9 million South Korean tourists from
its opening in 1998 until the suspension of the trips in 2008,
according to the south’s Unification Ministry. The resort’s
opening set the stage for a summit in Pyongyang between the
North and South in June 2000 -- the first since the peninsula
was divided.  Korean Vodka  Mount Geumgang is Korea Pyongyang’s first foray into
tourism. The company’s previous business consisted of importing
North Korean beer and soju, a vodka-like beverage distilled from
rice. Those shipments ended in 2008 when customers stopped
buying North Korean liquor as inter-Korean relations began to
deteriorate over the shooting of the South Korean tourist and
after the North conducted a nuclear test, Bai said.  Its agreement with North Korea calls for the government and
Korea Pyongyang to jointly operate Geumgang. North Korea chose
the company because its chief executive officer,  Steve Park , has
“extensive” connections within the upper echelons of the North
Korean regime and a history of doing business with them, Bai
said.  In August, Park visited the North Korean capital of
Pyongyang and extended the deal through 2016, according to the
Justice Department filings.  Bai declined to disclose the company’s revenue. Bai was the
only company employee besides Park listed in the Justice
filings.  Economic Sanctions  Steve Park, also known as Park Il Woo, is a South Korean
citizen who holds permanent residency in the U.S. He pleaded
guilty in 2007 to lying to the U.S. Federal Bureau of
Investigation about his contacts with officials from South Korea
and served 18 months of probation, according to court documents.
Park didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Bai said his company is focused mainly on attracting Korean
Americans who left the peninsula and are still nostalgic for
their homeland.  The North Korean regime is strapped for cash after the UN
and the U.S. tightened economic sanctions in 2009 and 2010.
North Korea’s economy is less than 3 percent the size of South
Korea’s and has relied on economic handouts since the 1990s,
when it experienced a famine.  U.S. trade sanctions imposed to pressure North Korea to
abandon its nuclear weapons program prohibit most investment by
Americans. Transactions that facilitate travel are permitted.  Traveler Advisory  Bai said the company is checking with U.S. authorities at
each step to make sure it remains in compliance with relevant
laws, policies and sanctions.  People in the U.S. don’t need government permission to
travel to North Korea, according to the U.S. State Department.
The agency warns visitors that the North Korean regime
confiscates tourists’ cell phones, monitors their hotel rooms
and phone calls and considers unauthorized attempts to speak
with its citizens as acts of espionage. Visitors are subject to
arbitrary arrest and imprisonment without protection against
inhumane treatment, the agency says.  Walter Keats, the founder of Wilmette, Illinois-based Asia
Pacific Travel Ltd., estimates that about 300 to 500 North
Americans visit North Korea each year through a variety of tour
operators, including many in  Europe .  Keats has been to North Korea 28 times and led groups of
tourists to sites there, including Geumgang when Hyundai Asan
was operating it.  “This is not for the Holiday Inn crowd,” said Keats in an
interview.  North Korea may be focused on attracting visitors this year
because April 15 marks the 100th birthday of  Kim Il Sung , the
grandfather of the leader Kim Jong Un, who founded the nation in
1948 and ruled until his death in 1994.  “This is not a vacation,” Keats said. “You need to be
there because you’re interested in learning about the history
and the culture.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in  Seoul  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  