-- Obama Says Europe Needs Strong Firewall, Growth Plan
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-02-09T22:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/obama-says-europe-needs-strong-firewall-growth-plan-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said Europe
needs a stronger firewall to prevent the debt crisis from
spreading and a plan for economic growth, as he lauded “very
effective” steps  Italy  has taken.  Obama spoke after meeting at the White House with Italian
Prime Minister  Mario Monti . Monti, who took over from Silvio Berlusconi in November, is on a two-day visit to  New York  and
Washington to persuade investors that Italy can tame its $2.5
trillion debt by combining budget cuts with deregulation.  Monti has taken “very effective measures” to deal with
Italy’s debt, Obama said, adding that he has “great
confidence” in the prime minister. Obama said Monti has
“boosted confidence within Italy about a reform agenda” and is
generating “confidence throughout  Europe  and in the
marketplace.”  Obama said he and Monti agreed on “the need for a stronger
European firewall that will allow for a more stable path for
more repayment of debt but also the promotion of a growth
strategy.”  Monti, speaking in English, said he and Obama “agreed on
the strategy in order for Europe to consolidate its budgetary
position, to cope with the financial tensions” and to put in
place “adequate firewalls” while recognizing the
“imperative” of growth through structural transformation of
the European system.  Single Market  Monti said the U.S. “is the leading example of what a
single market can provide in terms of growth” and that
“Europe’s programs for growth should rely heavily on an
enhanced effort” toward greater market unification.  Italy’s debt is bigger than that of  Spain , Portugal, Greece
and Ireland combined and about four times larger than Europe’s
rescue fund. Monti’s success may be vital to reducing Italian
borrowing costs and preventing the euro region from breaking up.  Even as employers in the U.S. are  adding jobs  and growth
accelerated in the fourth quarter to a 2.8 percent rate, the
fastest in 18 months, the economy remains vulnerable to risks
posed by the European debt crisis.  The euro zone’s $12.1 trillion annual economic output is
the world’s largest after the $14.6 trillion U.S. production and
compares with $5.9 trillion for  China , which is third, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 27-nation European Union was
the second-biggest destination for U.S. goods exports in 2010,
behind  Canada .  Austerity Measures  Following passage of Monti’s austerity bill in December,
which overhauled pensions and raised taxes on gasoline and
primary residences, his Cabinet approved legislation on Jan. 20
to boost competition among so-called closed professions such as
notaries and pharmacists. A week later, the Cabinet abolished or
loosened regulations in a bid to cut red tape and make it easier
to do business.  At the same time, Monti has pushed back against  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  and Germany’s insistence on austerity measures as
a panacea for the debt crisis.  Ronald Spogli, U.S. ambassador to Italy from 2005 to 2009,
said in a phone interview that to cut Italy’s debt, Monti knows
his country “desperately needs growth.”  Obama, in an interview that appeared in Italy’s “La
Stampa” newspaper and on its English-language website today,
said that “Europe has the economic and financial capacity to
overcome this challenge.”  “What is necessary now is for all European governments to
show their absolute commitment to the future of economic
integration in Europe,” Obama said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  