-- Obama Frees 10 States From “No Child” Education-Testing Rules
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-02-09T21:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/obama-to-free-10-states-from-education-s-no-child-requirements.html
President  Barack Obama  freed 10
states from provisions of the No Child Left Behind education-
testing law after they proposed alternative ways to hold schools
accountable for student achievement.  Colorado ,  Florida , Georgia,  Indiana ,  Kentucky ,
Massachusetts, Minnesota,  New Jersey ,  Oklahoma , and  Tennessee 
received waivers from the law, enacted under former President
 George W. Bush , a Republican. In exchange, the states agreed to
raise education standards and tie teacher evaluations to student
achievement.  Obama, a Democrat, has pledged to fix the 10-year-old No
Child Left Behind Law, saying its focus on standardized-test
results waters down teaching, narrows school curriculums and
labels even high-achieving schools as failing. Republicans,
including the chairman of the House education committee, said
Congress, not the administration, should change No Child Left
Behind and said Obama’s waivers amount to executive overreach.  “We can combine greater freedom with greater
accountability,” Obama said at the White House before an
audience of state education officials, teachers, civil rights
and business leaders. “Each of these states has set higher
benchmarks for student achievement.”  Almost half of U.S. public schools are considered failing
under the federal No Child Left Behind law, according to a
 report  in December by the Center on Education Policy, a
Washington-based nonpartisan research group. The administration
has cited the failure rate as a reason to offer states and local
school authorities more flexibility.  Setting Standards  Under No Child Left Behind, each state establishes its own
proficiency tests and determines what constitutes passing. That
system penalized states with higher standards and gives them an
incentive to make tests easier, Education Secretary  Arne Duncan 
said in a briefing yesterday with reporters. In addition, high-
performing schools can be labeled as failing if a subgroup of
students -- such as students with disabilities or those who
speak English as a second language -- don’t pass tests.  The education law was due for an overhaul more than five
years ago. The administration gave Congress a “blueprint for
reform” in March 2010. Congress hasn’t acted.  “Our kids and our schools can’t be held back by
inaction,” Obama said.  Exemptions  The states getting waivers would be exempt from the
requirement that all students pass achievement tests by 2014 --
and make progress toward that goal each year -- or risk losing
federal funding. To get the waivers, states had to come up with
ways to measure achievement and show they were making progress
toward improving it, with an emphasis on turning around the
lowest-performing schools.  Each state could come up with its own approach.
 Massachusetts  will be giving schools credit for helping students
get advanced scores on state achievement exams, rather than
merely passing the tests, Duncan said. Georgia pledged to hold
schools accountable for producing graduates who can enter
college without the need for taking remedial academic classes,
he said.  An 11th state, New Mexico, has requested an exemption from
the requirements of the 2002 law, and 28 other states, joined by
 Puerto Rico  and the  District of Columbia , have alerted the
Department of Education of their intent to seek waivers.  U.S. Senator Tom Harkin, the Iowa Democrat who heads the
Senate education committee, released a draft bill in October
that would overhaul No Child Left Behind, freeing all but the
lowest-performing 5 percent of schools from the threat of
federal sanctions.  ‘Waiver Scheme’  In the House, Representative  John Kline , the  Minnesota 
Republican chairman of the education committee, is proposing a
series of bills to change the law. The Education Department
waivers may damage congressional efforts to fix No Child Left
Behind, he said.  “The administration’s waiver scheme provides just enough
temporary relief to quiet the demand for lasting reform,” Kline
said in a statement today as he introduced two measures,
including one that would replace federal with state-developed
accountability systems.  Senator Mike Enzi, the Wyoming Republican who is the
ranking member of the Senate education committee, called the
waivers “an end run around Congress.”  “This action clearly politicizes education policy, which
historically has been a bipartisan issue,” Enzi said in a
statement.  The president’s plan sets a precedent because past
Education Department waivers have been on “smaller issues,”
rather than amounting to a way to bypass Congress to change a
law, Diane Rentner, interim director of the Center on Education
Policy, said in an interview. States are pushing hard to get
relief from the law, she said.  “There’s a recognition that something needed to happen,”
Rentner said in a phone interview. “It doesn’t appear that
Congress is able to do that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net 
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  