-- Obama Rulemaker: $25B Outweighed by Benefits
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   D w o s k i n
-- 2012-02-09T16:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/obama-rulemaker-says-25b-cost-outweighed-by-benefits.html
Regulations approved by President
 Barack Obama  over the first 32 months of his term cost
businesses an estimated $25 billion, more than double the total
of each of his two predecessors, according to White House data.  Obama signed off on fewer total regulations, however, than
Republican President  George W. Bush  during the same period of
his tenure, the data shows.  The administration said the benefits of its regulations
outweigh the costs by $116 billion so far, according to the
figures from an unreleased White House report provided to
Bloomberg. Judging regulations by cost alone doesn’t take into
account the economic benefits of healthier children, safer roads
or fewer industrial accidents.  “Every new emphasis has to make sure the benefit justifies
the cost,” Cass Sunstein, the head of the Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs at the White House, said in an interview.
“Part of my job is making sure that whatever is done in the
regulatory area is consistent with the fundamental goals of
economic growth and  job creation .”  Obama’s regulatory policy has been a  focal point  of
criticism from business groups and Republicans, who say that a
spate of rules meant to clean up the environment, health care
and financial firms is crippling the economy.  ‘Job-Killing Regulations’  Republican presidential front-runner  Mitt Romney  says that,
if elected, he will put an end to “job-killing regulations.”
The Republican-led House of Representatives last year voted to
stall or block at least a dozen regulations proposed by the
Environmental Protection Agency.  Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican and
head of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee,
said in a statement that “an early estimated cost of $25
billion is a sign of an even more expensive job-killing tsunami
that will create more uncertainty for small businesses and put
Americans out of work.”  Bill Kovacs , vice president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
in Washington, said the administration is “producing a record
number of economically significant regulations, and that’s
causing unemployment.”  The result is “projects not getting
built and the economy not getting going,” Kovacs said in an
interview.  Balanced Approach  Sunstein says the administration is taking a balanced
approach. It nixed the most expensive rule: an EPA proposal to
curb smog, which would have cost as much as $90 billion.  Obama also ordered a review of old regulations a year ago,
and he cited it as a success in his State of the Union address
last month. That process will save $10 billion in its first five
years, according to the budget office.  The administration’s most expensive rules last year
included energy conservation standards for refrigerators,
requirements that cargo on passenger aircraft be screened and
limits on ozone pollution from coal power plants that crosses
state lines.  Sunstein is set to send the full report on the costs and
benefits of regulations to Congress in the coming weeks.  In the fiscal year ended in September, the cost of new
regulations was about $9.7 billion, a decrease from 2010,
according to the president’s  Office of Management and Budget .  The estimated and cumulative cost of Obama’s regulations
through the fiscal year ended Sept. 30 ranged from $17 billion
to $34 billion, according to the budget office. The estimated
midpoint of the rules is $25 billion.  Clinton, Bush  That compares with as much as $9.7 billion in regulations
issued by Clinton and $6.7 billion by Bush over the first 32
months of their terms, according to the White House.  An annualized average of the cost of Obama’s rules is $9.4
billion in 2011 dollars.  That is far below the $20.9 billion one-year high under
Republican President  George H.W. Bush . In the last year of his
term, President  Ronald Reagan  imposed $16 billion in regulations
in today’s dollars. Bloomberg converted all of the regulation
totals to 2011 dollars using the  U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics ’ online  calculator .  Regulations also have benefits, and the administration said
those total $116 billion. That compares with $18 billion in
regulatory benefits during the first 32 months of Clinton’s
term, and $4.3 billion for Bush, the White House report said.  Missed Work Days  Those benefits are calculated by tallying up a combination
of avoided health costs and missed days of work, and also
estimates of what citizens are willing to pay to avoid premature
death or illness.  Avoiding  a heart attack, for example, is measured as the
combination of $127 multiplied by the estimated work days
missed, plus $85,000 for medical treatment.  The EPA  values  saving a life to be worth more than $8
million, based on academic surveys from 1976 to 1981 that have
been adjusted to reflect inflation and population growth.  “These are real benefits to real people,”  Gina McCarthy ,
the assistant administrator of the EPA, told the House Energy
and Commerce Committee yesterday.  Critics say those benefits are very different than the
tangible, immediate costs to industry of buying new equipment or
closing plants.  “The concept of a willingness to pay for improved health
or longevity is not illegitimate,” Susan Dudley, Sunstein’s
predecessor and director of the Regulatory Studies Center at
George  Washington  University, said in an interview. “But these
benefits are highly uncertain and are not likely to translate to
economic growth.”  Loss, Gain  Richard Morgenstern, the EPA’s director of policy analysis
in the Reagan and Clinton administrations and now a researcher
with Resources for the Future in Washington, found that for
every job lost because of regulatory costs, at least one more
was gained.  Because of EPA regulations from 1984 to 1994, four
industries shed 14,000 jobs, he said. As those industries spent
money to comply with the laws, they hired workers to clean and
retrofit equipment and developed new manufacturing methods.
Morgenstern estimates that in the end, spending and innovation
put 29,000 people to work.  “The job creation and the job destruction roughly cancel
each other out,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Dwoskin in Washington at 
 edwoskin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  