-- Obama’s Changing His Tune for 2012 Campaign’s Mood Music
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-02-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/obama-s-changing-his-tune-for-2012-campaign-s-mood-music.html
When President  Barack Obama  crooned
the first line of Al Green’s “Let’s Stay Together” at a
fundraiser last month, it turned out to be the prelude for the
new soundtrack of his re-election campaign.  The 1971 hit by Green, who performed at the Jan. 19 event
at  New York ’s Apollo Theater, is an entreaty for patience and
forgiveness. It and the other 28 songs on the campaign’s
official 2012 playlist, used to set the mood at rallies and
speeches, marks a shift in the times and the 50-year-old
incumbent’s message.  In 2008, Obama was promising to “change the world,” and
the music he used was an upbeat mix that included soul and
Motown hits such Curtis Mayfield’s “Move on Up” and  Stevie Wonder ’s “Signed, Sealed, Delivered (I’m Yours).”  With the  unemployment rate  hovering at more than 8 percent
and the partisan divide in Washington hardening, the new list,
being released by the campaign today, incorporates a mix of
artists, ages and genres with songs that touch upon themes such
as will, redemption and comeback.  There’s Montgomery Gentry’s “My Town,” in which the
locals still fill the church after the mill closed, and  Bruce Springsteen ’s “We Take Care of Our Own.” In “Learn to Live,”
Darius Rucker sings “You gotta crash and burn, you gotta make
some stances and take some chances.”  Changing Times  “Four years ago this guy was riding this crescendo of
hope, things seemed like they couldn’t be worse in the country
and the music he chose really fit with that,” said Bill Werde,
editorial director of music industry magazine Billboard. Now,
“It’s less fresh-faced optimism and it’s more pragmatic
positioning of a politician who wants a second term.”  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  has been
featuring the Kid Rock’s “Born Free” and country-themed music
before his appearances. None of the Republican campaigns so far
have taken the step of releasing a list of songs and promoting
them. Obama’s playlist is scheduled to be featured on the
digital music service Spotify, according to Katie Hogan, an
Obama campaign spokeswoman.  Mark Anthony Neal, a professor of African and African-
American Studies at  Duke University  in Durham,  North Carolina ,
who analyzed Obama’s campaign songs in 2008, said this year’s
soundtrack reflects the storyline change for Obama.  With “Let’s Stay Together,” Neal said, “instead of
telling the person you’re wooing why you should be with them,
now it’s like, ‘Why you should keep me.’”  Many of the other songs, Neal said, represent a “populist
playlist” of “hard-scrabble, reaching-for-the-sky type of
stuff.”  Eastwood Ad  He said the themes are similar to the Clint Eastwood ad for
Chrysler during this year’s  Super Bowl . “It gets back to that
half-time theme, that we’ve got half of it done, now let’s dig
in and finish it off.”  In one of the songs, Dierks Bentley’s “Home,” the lyrics
are: “It’s been a long, hard ride; got a ways to go; but this
is still the place that we all call home.”  Obama, the nation’s first black president, hasn’t abandoned
his taste for reflecting the ideas of the civil rights movement,
Neal said. Raphael Saadiq’s “Keep Marching,” and “Keep
Reachin’ Up” by Nicole Willis & the Soul Investigators are
among less famous artists the campaign is highlighting.  There’s some political geography to the strategy as well,
with  Aretha Franklin ’s version of “The Weight” adding the
voice of Detroit, and  James Taylor ’s “Your Smiling Face”
giving a nod to North Carolina, a state where the Democratic
National Convention will be held this year.  “Every campaign is a production complete with a
soundtrack,” said  Robert Thompson , a professor of popular
culture at  Syracuse University  in New York. Obama’s political
team “probably spent a long time going over each song and going
over who’s going to like it and what kind  of message it will
deliver.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  