-- Obama Advisers Revising Economic Outlook for Greater Job Growth
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-02-09T05:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/obama-advisers-revising-u-s-economic-outlook-to-signal-greater-job-growth.html
President  Barack Obama ’s advisers
have grown more confident about U.S. economic growth this year,
revising their outlook to project the creation of 2 million new
jobs if administration policies are adopted, a White House
official said.  That may bring the  unemployment rate  closer to 8 percent by
the November election. The rate was 8.3 percent last month, the
figure’s fifth consecutive decline.  Alan Krueger, chairman of the White House Council of
Economic Advisers, said in a statement last night that the
president’s economic team has become more optimistic following a
series of positive economic indicators that culminated in
January’s drop in the jobless rate.  He said the budget proposal the administration will release
next week will project an average  unemployment rate  of 8.9
percent this year and 8.6 percent next year. Those official
forecasts are “stale and out of date,” he said.  The unemployment rate is a key piece of economic data for
voters in the presidential and congressional elections. Only one
U.S. president since World War II --  Ronald Reagan  -- has been
re-elected with a jobless rate above 6 percent. Reagan won a
second term in 1984 with 7.2 percent unemployment on Election
Day, after the rate had fallen almost three percentage points in
the previous 18 months.  Criticism on Economy  The president’s handling of the economy has been the main
line of attack by the Republicans running to face him in
November, including former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney ,
who has said the recovery has been sluggish because of Obama’s
policies.  The budget Obama sends to Congress Feb. 13 will include the
administration’s outlook for the economy as well as the
president’s spending blueprint.  “Private sector forecasters have shaved about half a
percentage point from their 2012 unemployment rate forecast in
response to the improvement in the job market since we made our
forecast,” Krueger said in his statement. “We would certainly
lower our forecast of the unemployment rate from the figures
that will appear in Monday’s budget if we were to do another
forecast today.”  Krueger said the official forecast for the budget was
prepared in mid-November. Another administration official, who
declined to be identified, said the White House projects 2
million additional jobs will be created this year.  Krueger first disclosed the change in the administration’s
outlook in an interview with the New York Times.  Action by Congress  The administration’s outlook for an improved employment
picture depends on congressional passage of Obama’s economic
proposals, including an extension through the end of the year of
a 2 percentage point reduction in the  payroll tax  for workers
and extended jobless benefits, said the White House official.  Private forecasters have projected the policies would add
about 1 percentage point to economic growth this year.  U.S. House and Senate lawmakers are seeking to break an
impasse over extending the payroll tax cut and unemployment
assistance, which expire Feb. 29. Lawmakers have divided along
partisan lines over how to cover the $100 billion cost.  The  Federal Reserve  in its Jan. 25 forecast projected an
unemployment rate of 8.2 to 8.5 percent in 2012, falling to 6.7
to 7.6 percent by the fourth quarter of 2014.  The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  issued a more
pessimistic forecast on Jan. 31, projecting unemployment may
rise to 8.9 percent in the last three months of this year, which
includes Election Day, and increase to 9.2 percent in the last
quarter of 2013.  Jobs Added  Employers added 243,000 jobs in January, the biggest gain
in nine months, the Labor Department reported Feb. 3. The
improvement exceeded the most optimistic forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Still, the portion of the population counted as
participating in the workforce declined in January to 63.7
percent from 64.0 percent in December. In December 2007, at the
start of the recession, 66.0 percent of the population held jobs
or were actively seeking employment.  As the 2012 campaign plays out, the  U.S. economy  remains
vulnerable to risks such as a worsening of the European debt
crisis.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose to a seven-month high
yesterday as  Greece ’s government began talks on terms to secure
a second aid package. Companies most-tied to economic growth led
the gains in the  S&P 500  as measures of financial and  technology 
shares added more than 0.6 percent.  Obama said Feb. 3 that while too many people in the U.S.
still don’t have jobs, the data show “the economy is growing
stronger” and “the recovery is speeding up.” He also appealed
to Congress to act.  “Do not slow down the recovery that we’re on,” Obama
said, directing his words at lawmakers. “Don’t muck it up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 