-- Obama Job Approval Hits Highest Level Since June in Gallup Poll
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-02-09T18:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/obama-job-approval-hits-highest-level-since-june-in-gallup-poll.html
President  Barack Obama ’s job approval
climbed to its highest level since June following a series of
reports showing that the economy is strengthening and employment
prospects for Americans are improving.  Gallup Inc.’s daily tracking poll results released today
show Obama’s job approval at 49 percent in polling conducted
from Feb. 6-8. The daily tracking poll averages results over
three days.  Frank Newport , editor-in-chief of the Gallup Poll in
Princeton,  New Jersey , said a Labor Department report issued
Feb. 3 showing the  unemployment rate  dropped to 8.3 percent in
January, the lowest level in almost three years, “appears to be
the proximate cause” for the boost in Obama’s popularity.  Newport said Obama’s job approval has been rising in recent
weeks “in concert” with improvements in measures of public
confidence in the economy.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose last week to a
one-year high, spurred by improving perceptions of employment
opportunities and a rally in the stock market. Confidence among
political independents, considered a key group in presidential
elections, increased to a four-year high.  Fewer Americans than forecast filed claims for unemployment
insurance payments last week, indicating the labor market
recovery is gaining traction, figures from the Labor Department
showed today. Applications for  jobless benefits  decreased by
15,000 in the week ended Feb. 4 to 358,000. The median forecast
of 48 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected 370,000.  Disapproval for Congress  The improving economic picture isn’t translating into
greater popularity for Congress.  Gallup’s latest gauge of public sentiment for the job
Congress is doing sank to a record low, with 10 percent of
Americans registering approval in a poll taken Feb. 2-5. That’s
down from 13 percent in January and a previous low of 11 percent
in December.  Of those surveyed, 86 percent disapproved of the job
Congress is doing. That ties with a record disapproval rating
set in December.  “Americans’ perceptions of Congress are not rising in
concert with these other measures,” Newport said. “As
Americans get more positive about other things, they are not
getting more positive about Congress.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 