-- Mobinil Rises in Cairo on Put-Option Bets: Cairo Mover
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-02-16T09:59:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/mobinil-jumps-by-limit-on-put-option-speculation-cairo-mover.html
(Corrects reference to size of Mobinil in first paragraph
of story first published on Feb. 9.)  Egyptian Co. for Mobile Services 
soared the most in almost 11 months on speculation the founder
of the phone company known as Mobinil may sell his stake to
 France Telecom (FTE)  SA.  The shares of the Cairo-based company jumped 8.8 percent,
the most since March 28, to 136.37 Egyptian pounds at the 2:30
p.m. close in Cairo. The stock has surged 72 percent during a
12-day winning streak. The benchmark  EGX 30 Index  advanced 0.9
percent today.  “There’s speculation the  put option  with  France Telecom 
might be exercised sooner than September,” said Wafik Dawood,
director of institutional sales at Cairo-based Mega Investments
Securities. “But it’s all tied to Naguib Sawiris’ willingness
to sell despite his well-known attachment to the company.”.  France Telecom, which owns about 71 percent of Mobinil’s
parent company, agreed in April 2010 to end a 2 ½-year ownership
dispute with founder Sawiris. The agreement included a put
option, or a contract that gives Sawiris the option to sell his
stake in Mobinil to France Telecom in the two-month period
starting Sept. 15.  Mobinil has no information on talks with France Telecom,
the company said in a filing to the bourse. France Telecom and
 Orascom Telecom Media & Technology Holding SAE  are in talks over
the future of Mobinil,  Reuters reported  today, citing an
unidentified person.  Sawiris’  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE)  completed an asset
split last month, separating its Egyptian and North Korean
holdings into a new company, Orascom Telecom Media. The shares
of Orascom Telecom Media, which owns a stake in Mobinil as a
result of the split, increased 9.2 percent to 1.43 pounds. The
shares have been suspended from trading, pending a response to
inquiries from the exchange.  Manal Abdel Hamid, spokeswoman for Orascom Telecom Media,
didn’t return a call requesting comment. Sawiris didn’t answer
two calls and a text message to his mobile phone. France Telecom
Spokesman Sebastien Audra declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  