-- Models Occupy Nasdaq as Fashion Week Shows Grow
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-02-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/models-occupy-nasdaq-ice-rink-as-new-york-fashion-week-offers-328-shows.html
There was a time when Ruth Finley
could easily avoid conflicts while putting together the schedule
for  New York Fashion Week .  This month, the publisher of the pink-paper  Fashion
Calendar , the trade’s must-read, had to fit as many as eight
different runway shows and presentations into one time slot.  “It gets more complicated every time,” said Finley, a
petite octogenarian. “More and more young designers, people
you’ve never heard of, want to get in.”  We were talking this week in her cozy Upper East Side
apartment, where a grand piano was adorned with rows of
photographs of her three sons and 10 grandchildren. A digital
photo frame on a coffee table rotated images of Finley receiving
awards and being hugged by  Carolina Herrera .  New York Fashion Week, which starts today and runs through
Feb. 16, will bring together about 328 designers, a 61 percent
increase from five years ago and the largest lineup to date,
according to Fashion Calendar.  The main event,  Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week  at Lincoln
Center for the  Performing Arts , will host about 90 shows,
including Herrera and Diane von Furstenberg. Another popular
venue,  Milk Studios  in the Meatpacking District, will have 40
runway shows and presentations.  Models will parade in art galleries, hotels and a former
synagogue.  Carmen Marc Valvo  will present his gowns in the
Nasdaq building. Moncler will showcase its Grenoble collection
on ice, at Central Park’s Wollman Rink.  “I hope it’s not raining,” said Finley, sporting a black
Escada suit, crisp white shirt, pearl clips and red nails.  Out of College  She started Fashion Calendar right out of college in 1945,
working from her apartment on West 52nd Street. Her secretary
was her roommate.  “We had a third-floor walk-up and paid $55 for a furnished
apartment with bedbugs,” she said.  At the time, the shows were done by big retailers, not
individual designers. Hearing two fashion editors complain about
overlapping shows at  Bergdorf Goodman (0117093D)  and  Saks Fifth Avenue 
planted an idea in her head that “there should be a clearing
house for the fashion shows so that they don’t conflict with
each other,” she said.  Now the publication goes out to about 2,000 subscribers
internationally, including party planners, chair-rental
companies, newspapers and caterers, Finley said. The annual
subscription is $550 or $495 for the online version.  “You can’t do anything in this industry without checking
with Ruth first,” said Fern Mallis, former senior vice
president of IMG Fashion who has worked in fashion for more than
30 years. “As long as I can remember, those pink pages had a
prominent place on everyone’s desks.”  Oscar and Narciso  Leafing through the booklet three days before Fashion
Week’s start, Finley spotted a problem on the night of Feb. 14.  “I have Oscar de la Renta here,” she said pointing at the
6:30 p.m. slot for a show on 42nd Street, but notes that he’s
also doing a show at 7:30 “because he can’t get everybody into
one.” That’s bad “because  Narciso Rodriguez  uses the same
models. Narciso is at 8 p.m. at  Lincoln Center .”  When conflicts arise, Finley tries to book a woman’s show
on top of a man’s show or overlap a young designer with an
established one.  “In the olden days, whoever came first got the time,” she
said. “But it’s so many now, that people just have to take
their chances. It bothers me because my primary function was not
to have conflicts.”  So what’s on her personal calendar?  “I try to go to new designers because I want to learn
about them,” Finley said. “I used to go to a lot of shows. Now
I’ve cut back. During this Fashion Week, I’ll go to, maybe,
50.”  (Katya Kazakina is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 