-- Oil Falls From Three-Week High as Greece Counters U.S. Economy
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-02-10T13:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/oil-trades-near-three-week-high-on-u-s-economic-outlook-greek-debt-deal.html
Oil fell from the highest level in
three weeks, paring a weekly advance, as concern that Europe’s
debt crisis will worsen and global commodity demand is weakening
countered signs of recovery in the  U.S. economy .  West Texas Intermediate futures declined as much as 1.6
percent, snapping the longest run of gains since December.
Greece won’t get financial aid until it implements an austerity
plan, Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said
yesterday. The  International Energy Agency  reduced its 2012
global oil demand forecast for a sixth month, citing a
“darkening” economic outlook, and China’s exports fell for the
first time in more than two years. Initial U.S. jobless claims
slid by 15,000 last week, the Labor Department said yesterday.  “The market’s losing ground on the Greek concern,” said
Gerrit Zambo, a trader at  Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich. “The
demand-supply situation for the rest of the year is not a
critical point at this moment. It’s mainly the political and
economic situation.”  Oil for March delivery fell as much as $1.59 to $99.89 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $98.38 at 1:04 p.m. London time. The contract rose a
third day yesterday, climbing 1.1 percent to $99.84 for the
highest close since Jan. 19. Prices have risen 0.6 percent this
week and 13 percent in the past year.  Brent oil for March settlement slid $1.76 to $116.83 a
barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European
benchmark contract’s  premium  to New York-traded WTI was at
$18.45, compared with $18.75 at yesterday’s settlement and a
record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Greek Budget Measures  The euro retreated from a two-month high against the dollar
before a Greek parliamentary vote on austerity measures this
weekend that the nation’s Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos
said amounted to a referendum on euro membership. European
finance ministers refused to deliver a bailout for  Greece  until
the measures are passed into law.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told lawmakers
in Berlin today that Greece is missing its debt-cutting targets,
according to two people who took part in the meeting and
declined to be named because it was held in private.  George Karatzaferis, the leader of one of three parties
supporting Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos , pushed back
against German demands for deeper budget cuts, saying he
wouldn’t support austerity measures worked out for a rescue.  ‘Remorseless Picture’  The IEA cut its 2012 global oil demand forecast for the
sixth month, predicting worldwide crude consumption will
increase by 800,000 barrels a day, or 300,000 less than
previously estimated, to 89.9 million barrels a day, according
to the Paris-based agency’s monthly oil market report today.  Consumption will drop in member nations of the Organization
of Economic Cooperation and Development this year as  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis slows growth, according to the IEA.  “It’s a pretty remorseless picture of decline for oil
demand throughout the OECD,”  David Fyfe , head of the agency’s
market and industry division, said in a telephone interview from
Paris. “These are mature markets, in which industry recovery is
stuttering, and moving into recession in the case of Europe.”  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries reduced
its estimate of crude consumption for this year by 120,000
barrels a day to 88.76 million a day, the group’s Vienna-based
secretariat said in its monthly market report yesterday. Supply
from the 12 members increased to 30.9 million barrels a day last
month, the most since October 2008, compared with estimated
requirements of 29.55 million, the report showed.  China Exports Decline  China ’s exports fell 0.5 percent in January as trade was
disrupted by the Lunar New Year Holiday. Imports dropped 15.3
percent. China accounted for 11 percent of the world’s oil
demand while European Union countries consumed 16 percent,
according to BP Plc’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  The country’s crude imports last month rose 7.4 percent
from a year ago to 23.41 million metric tons, or about 5.54
million barrels a day, according to preliminary data on the
website of the Beijing-based General Administration of Customs.  U.S. first-time jobless claims fell to 358,000, compared
with estimates that ranged from 355,000 to 385,000 in a
Bloomberg News survey of 48 economists. The four-week  moving
average , a less-volatile measure, declined to 366,250, the
lowest since April 26, 2008.  “The numbers at the moment are supporting a much better
scenario in the U.S.,” said  Michael McCarthy , chief market
strategist at CMC Markets Asia Pacific Pty in Sydney. “We had
jobless claims reflecting a better employment situation and
therefore a better outlook for oil.”  Spread Contracts  Investors should exercise “extreme caution” when trading
the spread between the  New York  and London contracts,  Michael Wittner , head of oil market research at Societe Generale SA in
New York, said in a report dated yesterday. Traders who lost
money on bets that the gap would narrow closed their positions,
increasing the speed and magnitude of the widening gap, he said.
The premium rose 46 percent in January, the most in 11 months.  Oil in New York may rise next week after U.S. refineries
increased operating rates, bolstering demand for crude, a
Bloomberg News survey showed. Nineteen of 36 analysts, or 53
percent, forecast prices will climb through Feb. 17. Eight
respondents, or 22 percent, predicted futures will decline and
nine estimated there will be little change. It was the most
bullish response since April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  