-- Oil-Tanker Rates End 11-Session Losing Streak as Demand Jumps
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-02-09T17:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/oil-tanker-rates-end-11-session-losing-streak-as-demand-jumps.html
Charter rates for the biggest tankers
hauling Middle East oil to  Asia  rose, rebounding from 11
declines in a row, as stronger demand reduced the surplus of
available vessels.  Hire costs  for very large crude carriers on the benchmark
Saudi Arabia-to-Japan voyage gained 0.8 percent to 49.06
industry-standard Worldscale points today, according to the
London-based Baltic Exchange. Rates plunged 25 percent during
the losing streak.  The number of ships available to load cargoes in the
 Persian Gulf  over the next four weeks shrank by seven, according
to Kevin Sy, a Singapore-based freight-derivatives broker at
Marex Spectron Group. Still, demand for oil in March is unlikely
to boost rates because about 70 tankers are available for next
month’s first 10 days, he said in a report.  “Another busy day, so another draw in the four-week
supply,” Sy wrote.  Daily income for VLCCs  on the benchmark route gained 5.9
percent to $7,347, according to the exchange. That reduced the
drop since the start of the year to 40 percent. Each of the
ships can hold 2 million barrels of crude.  The exchange’s assessments don’t reflect speed cuts aimed
at reducing fuel costs, vessel owners’ main expense. Owners can
curb those expenses, boosting returns, by slowing ships on
return journeys after unloading of cargoes.  The price of ship fuel, or bunkers, advanced for a fifth
session to $711.25 a metric ton, data compiled by Bloomberg from
25 ports worldwide showed.  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or
flat rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in  London  to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a broader measure of oil-
shipping costs that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs,
increased 1.4 percent to 795.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  