-- Homeowners Who Would Be Moguls Make Comeback in U.K.: Mortgages
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-02-09T16:54:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/homeowners-who-would-be-moguls-make-comeback-in-united-kingdom-mortgages.html
Mortgages that helped fuel
speculation during the U.K.’s  housing boom  by turning homeowners
into aspiring property moguls are making a comeback.  Investor demand for bonds backed by so-called buy-to-let
mortgages surged last week by the most in almost two years,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. New lending to rental property
investors rose 40 percent last year to 14.1 billion pounds ($22
billion), the  Council of Mortgage Lenders  said today. That
outpaced a 3.9 percent gain for all new  residential lending .  While Britain’s economy may slide into recession in the
first quarter and  unemployment  is at a 16-year high, buy-to-let
mortgages are gaining as tighter credit keeps potential first-
time buyers renting. Low interest rates and rising rents are
encouraging investors to put savings into the properties, and
falling late payments and lower repossessions have lured back
lenders including Yorkshire Building Society and Banco Santander
SA that exited the market during the slump.  “It’s the only growth story in the broader market at the
moment,” said Jeremy Law, head of buy-to-let lending at
Yorkshire Building Society, the customer-owned lender that began
offering loans across all of  England  and Wales Jan. 23.  The extra yield investors demand above benchmark rates to
hold 3-year senior bonds backed by U.K. buy-to-let mortgages
contracted 20 basis points last week to 330 basis points, or 3.3
percentage points, JPMorgan data show. That’s narrowed from 11
percentage points in June 2009 and is the least since August.  Relative yields on five-year bonds backed by prime
mortgages to U.K. homeowners fell 3 basis points to 155 in the
week ended Feb. 3.  Prime Credit  “There’s a realization that buy to let is a prime credit-
quality risk,” said John Heron, director of mortgages at
Paragon Group of Companies Plc, which lends mainly to landlords
with more than 10 properties.  Paragon raised 163.8 million pounds in November by selling
bonds backed by buy-to-let loans, its first issue since July
2007. The  mortgage provider  has climbed almost six-fold in
 London  trading since November 2008 after losing 97 percent of
its market value during the previous 32 months. Today, the
shares rose 2.3 percent to close at the highest in six months.  Buy-to-let mortgages differ from loans to owner-occupiers
because borrowers generally don’t repay the principal and use
rental income to pay the interest. Most lenders require that
rent equals 125 percent of interest, giving them a buffer in
case the building isn’t fully occupied.  Get-Rich-Quick Schemes  Landlord financing became easier to obtain starting in the
1990s, when the government allowed more companies to provide
mortgages. That fueled a 19-fold increase in buy-to-let lending
in the decade ending Dec. 31, 2007, during which U.K. home
values tripled,  Savills Plc (SVS)  estimates.  TV shows promoted rental property as a way to diversify
savings. In the final years of the investment boom, buy to let
developed a reputation for get-rich-quick schemes as property
investment clubs offered seminars to persuade novice investors
to put savings in new residential development projects.  Homebuilders (TW/)  responded by constructing more apartment
blocks, particularly in former industrial cities in northern
England, tailored for investors. Many still stand empty,
blighting neighborhoods, a testimony to the unrealistic rental
projections of borrowers who paid too much for them.  “A small minority gave buy-to-let a bad name,” said Law.
“People didn’t use it to fund a landlord business, but as a
speculative way of making lots of money.”  The boom ended with the freeze in global credit markets
triggered by the U.S.  subprime mortgage  crisis. Companies scaled
back or withdrew from the market after a 15 percent slide in
U.K. property values in the 18 months through March 2009.  Unprofitable Chelsea  Yorkshire Building Society, based in the English city of
Bradford, bought unprofitable Chelsea Building Society in April
2010. Eight months before the purchase, Chelsea disclosed 41
million pounds of suspected or proven cases of  mortgage fraud ,
mainly buy-to-let loans.  Bradford & Bingley Plc was the U.K.’s largest buy-to-let
lender, according to Council of Mortgage Lenders data, until its
takeover by the state in 2008. The government sold the branch
network and savings deposits to Madrid-based Santander.
Repossessed homes or late payments of more than three months
affected 1.26 billion pounds of loans as of the first half of
2011, or 3.56 percent of the loan book of the “bad bank” now
managed by a  unit of the U.K. Treasury .  The delinquency rate for the 36.6 billion-pound market of
securitized buy-to-let loans has dropped to 1.68 percent in the
three months to November from 1.79 percent in August 2011,
according to Moody’s Investors Service. The measure rose to 3.95
percent in the second quarter of 2009.  Depressed Prices  While property values fall, investor demand for buy-to-let
loans has increased because of the attractive income rental
properties generate compared with other financial assets.  “Now’s a good time to invest,” said Richard Blanco, 45,
who plans to buy a property a year to add to the 10 rental homes
he already owns in East London and Nottingham. “Prices are
depressed and people are struggling to get finance so there’s
less competition.”  Low  interest rates  mean money left on deposit earns nothing
after inflation, while  Bloomberg data  show that an investment in
the FTSE 100 index of leading shares returned an average 2.5
percent during the past five years.  22% Return  Gross income returns rose to 5.2 percent last year from 5
percent in 2010 as rent rose, broker LSL Property Services Plc
said. That figure excludes debt, the impact of vacancies, late
rent payments and property management costs.  An investor with a standard buy-to-let mortgage would get a
net pretax annual return by 2017 of almost 22 percent, if
current conditions prevail and  home prices  appreciate at the
average rate of the past two decades, the Association of
Residential Letting Agents projected.  About 25 lenders are offering the mortgages compared with
19 a year ago, according to Mortgages for Business, a broker
based in Sevenoaks, England.  “Given the flat residential market, a quality buy-to-let
offering, aimed at non-professional landlords, poses a good
growth opportunity,” said Phil Cliff, director of mortgages at
 Santander UK Plc (ANL) , explaining why the unit of Madrid-based  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  resumed buy-to-let lending in December after
withdrawing in 2008.  Borrowers typically pay as much as 1.5 percentage points
more interest on a buy-to-let mortgage than for owner-occupied
loans, said Ray Boulger, a senior technical manager at mortgage
broker John Charcol.  Increased Competition  Increased competition has led some lenders, including
Clydesdale Bank, to start offering mortgages with only a 20
percent down payment requirement for borrowers instead of the 25
percent deposit prevalent since 2008.  The number of loans available is still a fraction of the
3,305 products available at the peak of the market in August
2007. The 14 billion pounds of advances that may have been
loaned this year compares with 45.7 billion pounds loaned in
2007 at the height of the last property investment boom.  “The tests are still to come for buy-to-let, when interest
rates start to rise,” said Jonathan Livingstone, a senior
analyst at Moody’s, who covers U.K. residential mortgage-backed
securities.  Lenders have learned the lessons from the recent bust and
are more rigorous in underwriting new loans, said Nigel
Stockton, head of financial services at  Countrywide Plc , the
U.K.’s largest mortgage and real estate broker.  They’re limiting the number of loans secured by properties
in any one development after being left with multiple bad loans
in new apartment blocks when the market collapsed, he said.
Advances to any one landlord are also restricted, he added.  Novice Landlords  Lenders are reluctant to deal with novice landlords, said
Ian Potter, operations manager of the  Association of Residential
Letting Agents  industry group. They impose penalties on early
repayments to deter property speculators and verify loan
applicants’ rental assumptions independently, he said.  Giving them more comfort are current conditions in the
housing market, which appear unlikely to change any time soon.
High property prices and large down payments required by
mortgage-lenders are forcing more Britons to rent.  A shortage of properties to lease lifted rents by 4 percent
last year, LSL estimates, based on a survey of more than 18,000
homes in England and Wales. Countrywide estimates that 3.3
people competed for each rental property on its books in the
final quarter of last year and it took less than two weeks on
average to lease a home.  Rented Accommodation  U.K. households in private rented accommodation increased
by 1.45 million in the five years to the end of 2011 to 4.9
million, real estate adviser Savills estimates. By the start of
2015, the private rented sector will represent 20 percent of
Britain’s housing stock, Savills estimates, compared with 17.4
percent now. That would be the highest in about 40 years.  With the exception of the spike in arrears and foreclosures
in 2008, CML data from 1999 to 2010 show late-payment rates for
owner-occupiers exceeded buy-to-let mortgages each year.  Arrears of more than 90 days represented 1.38 percent of
the 1.4 million of outstanding buy-to-let mortgages in the
fourth quarter,  CML data show . That compares with a 1.98 percent
late-payment rate for the 9.8 million of owner-occupier loans.  “Buy-to-let came through the recession showing it was much
more resilient that many thought,” Charcol’s Boulger said.
“What appeals to lenders is the higher margin for less risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 