-- Thomson Reuters Reports Quarterly Loss on Impairment Charge
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-02-09T21:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/thomson-reuters-reports-quarterly-loss-on-impairment-charge-2-.html
Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI) , the provider
of news and information services, reported a fourth-quarter
loss, reflecting a $3 billion writedown of assets in the
financial-services business.  The net loss was $2.6 billion, or $3.11 a share, compared
with net income of $225 million, or 27 cents, a year earlier,
the New York-based company said today in a statement. Excluding
items such as the charge, the company had profit of 54 cents a
share. Analysts had  projected  56 cents, the average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Thomson Reuters named  James Smith , 52, as chief executive
officer in December, replacing Tom Glocer, who had run Reuters
since 2001. The company is controlled by the Thomson family
through Woodbridge Co., the family’s investment firm, which
 holds  a 55 percent stake, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Thomson Reuters ’ financial-services business, which
provides market data to stock traders, declined in value,
leading to a $3 billion reduction in assets recorded on the
books.  The company described the change as a goodwill impairment
charge taken after annual testing required under international
accounting standards. The non-cash charge won’t affect
operations, liquidity,  cash flow  or covenants in debt
agreements, according to the statement.  ‘Challenging’ Conditions  Thomson Reuters in December suspended plans to sell its
health-care business, citing “challenging” economic
conditions. The state of the global economy would make it
difficult to get fair value for the health unit, which provides
data to government agencies and health-care professionals, the
company said in a statement at the time.  Separately, Reuters News reported that its own journalists
based in  London  called off a planned strike for today. Reuters
journalists who are members of the National Union of Journalists
in the U.K. accepted Thomson Reuters’ offer of a 3 percent pay
increase with 2.5 percent of that amount guaranteed.  Thomson Reuters fell 1.2 percent to C$27.36 ($27.49) in
Toronto at the close. The shares have dropped 33 percent in the
last 12 months,  compared  with a 9.3 percent decline for the
 Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index .  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Thomson Reuters in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  