-- Hong Kong Sells Home Site Below Estimate, Underscoring Price Drop Concerns
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   M a r c o   L u i
-- 2012-02-10T08:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/hong-kong-sells-tuen-mun-site-to-kerry-for-hk-2-7-billion-government-says.html
Hong Kong  sold a residential site in
the city’s northwest at a price lower than surveyors’ estimates,
underscoring concerns  home prices  may drop further amid the
government’s pledge to maintain property curbs.  The HK$2.74 billion ($353 million) paid by  Kerry Properties
Ltd. (683)  for the Tuen Mun site, with a gross floor area of 940,000
square feet, was 19 percent lower than the HK$3.38 billion
median estimate of three surveyors Bloomberg News contacted. The
government on Jan. 12 withdrew the tender for a property project
at a subway station in the northern Tsuen Wan district.  Home prices have fallen 6 percent since June and the
government last month recorded the second-lowest number of home
transactions since it began collecting the figures in 1996,
because of rising borrowing costs, extra transaction taxes and
higher down-payment requirements. The government is
“determined” to increase land supply and will continue with
measures to maintain stable home prices, Financial Secretary
 John Tsang  said in his Feb. 1 annual budget, two days before the
tender for the Tuen Mun site closed.  “There’ve been some changes in the market since the
estimates were done,” said  James Cheung , a surveyor at
Centaline Property Agency Ltd., the city’s biggest closely held
realtor. “Developers have turned even more conservative and the
price reflects that.”  Kerry Properties shares rose as much as 3.5 percent before
closing 1.2 percent lower at HK$32.40. The  Hang Seng Property
Index (HSP) , which tracks the city’s seven-biggest developers, fell
0.7 percent.  More Homes  The site drew a total of seven tenders, the government said
in a  statement  yesterday. At least 1,100 housing units are
required to be built on the site, it said.  Kerry, controlled by the family of  Malaysia ’s richest man,
Robert Kuok, will designate the Tuen Mun site for the
development of a “premium residential project,” it said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday.  Home prices have surged more than 70 percent since early
2009 on record low mortgage rates, a lack of new supply and an
influx of buyers from other parts of China. The government has
imposed measures to prevent the formation of an asset bubble
since late 2010.  It will make available at least 47 residential sites for
auction and tender in the next fiscal year, Tsang said in his
budget speech. The sites will provide about 13,500 homes, he
said.  The Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks the city’s
seven-biggest developers including  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) 
and billionaire Li Ka-shing’s  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) , fell 24
percent in 2011, after gaining more than 75 percent over the
previous two years. The gauge has climbed 16 percent since the
start of the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Lui in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  