-- Monti Meets Obama Amid ’Spectacular Progress’
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-02-09T15:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/monti-meets-obama-amid-praise-for-italy-s-debt-fighting-playbook.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti ,
by combining budget cuts with deregulation, has won praise from
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  for “spectacular progress” in
fighting the debt crisis while racing to stay ahead of domestic
critics.  Monti meets with U.S. President  Barack Obama  today at the
start of a two-day visit to  New York  and  Washington  to persuade
investors that Italy can tame its $2.5 trillion debt. That’s
bigger than that of  Spain ,  Portugal , Greece and Ireland combined
and about four times larger than Europe’s rescue fund. His
success may be vital to reducing Italian borrowing costs and
preventing the euro region from breaking up.  “There’s no European more important for Obama to meet
right now to understand that European leaders are aware of the
problems and are dealing with them,” Philippe Moreau-Defarges,
a researcher at Paris-based French Institute of International
Affairs. “There’s no European leader right now who understands
better how the global economy works.”  Monti, 68, who as a European Union competition commissioner
in the 1990s told companies such as Microsoft Corp. what to do,
has challenged labor unions on  Italy ’s rigid firing laws. Since
taking over from  Silvio Berlusconi  in November, he’s also pushed
back against  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and  Germany ’s insistence
on austerity measures as a panacea for the debt crisis.  ‘Impressive Steps’  “Under Prime Minister Monti’s leadership, Italy is now
taking impressive steps to modernize its economy, reduce its
deficit through a combination of revenue and spending measures,
and put the country back on the path toward growth,” Obama said
in an interview with Italian newspaper La Stampa, that ran ahead
of their meeting today at 2:45 p.m. at the White House.  At home, Monti’s pushed through 20 billion euros ($26.5
billion) in budget cuts and tax increases while reducing
regulations he blames for Italy’s stagnant economy, which
expanded at an annual average of 0.4 percent in the decade
through 2010 compared with 1.2 percent in the euro area. In
 Europe , where Berlusconi was once publicly snickered at by
Merkel and Sarkozy, Monti has won their praise while working to
shift the focus from austerity to growth with the region’s
economy poised for a recession.  Part of Solution  Monti’s “spectacular progress” in his first 12 weeks in
office should serve as an example for other indebted European
nations, Sarkozy said on Feb. 6 in Paris after talks with
Merkel. Following his White House meeting with Obama, Monti will
convene with investors in New York tomorrow to convince them, as
he says, that Italy “is no longer the source of euro-zone
problems, but part of the solution.”  Aided by the  European Central Bank ’s unlimited three-year
loans to euro-area banks, Italian borrowing costs have plunged
since Berlusconi resigned amid a crisis of confidence, sex
scandals and criminal trials. The yield on Italy’s 10-year
benchmark bond fell 12 basis point to 5.46 percent, the lowess
in four months. When Monti took office Nov. 16 it was 7.37
percent, past the 7 percent level that led  Greece , Ireland and
Portugal to seek bailouts.  “The panic has receded,” Ronald Spogli, U.S. ambassador
to Italy from 2005 to 2009, said in a phone interview. “It’s
been a very positive initial period, but it’s hard to tell if
it’s happy circumstances with the arrival of the other Mario,”
he said, referring to ECB President  Mario Draghi , a Rome native.  Fiscal Compact  To cut Italy’s debt, Monti knows the nation “desperately
needs growth,” Spogli said. Monti first sounded the alarm about
Europe’s obsession with austerity in comments published before a
meeting with Merkel on Jan. 11, when the premier warned cutbacks
may trigger anti-European protests in Italy without clear signs
of economic progress.  Italy wants to pair Europe’s new “fiscal compact,” which
seeks to ensure budget discipline, with a “growth pact,” Monti
told the Wall Street Journal in an interview published on Feb.
8. Italy last month submitted a proposal to the EU to give the
European Commission more powers to sanction member states that
fail to fully open up their markets to competition, a move that
will help spur growth, Monti said.  “Monti plays a crucial role in ensuring that the euro-zone
approach is a cooperative effort rather than a tug of war,”
 Marco Annunziata , former chief economist at UniCredit SpA who
now holds that job at General Electric Co., said in an e-mail.  Legislative Push  Following passage of his austerity bill in December, which
overhauled pensions and raised taxes on gasoline and primary
residences, Monti’s Cabinet approved legislation on Jan. 20 to
boost competition among so-called closed professions such as
notaries and pharmacists. A week later, the Cabinet abolished or
loosened regulations in a bid to cut red tape and make it easier
to do business.  Monti’s government now faces what may be its toughest task,
with Labor Minister Elsa Fornero engaged in talks with unions
and executives on easing  labor laws . Past efforts to loosen the
labor code have led to political violence, including
assassinations of economists working on the issue in 2002 and
1999.  Susanna Camusso, head of the CGIL, Italy’s largest union,
on Feb. 7 ruled out any increase in job-market flexibility or
changes in the labor code’s Article 18, which bans firing
without just cause and forces employers to rehire and compensate
workers deemed unjustly released. Fornero has pledged to press
ahead with the overhaul even without union approval, setting up
a possible future showdown.  Domestic Opposition  Monti faces a fair share of critics at home, and time is
not on his side. His unelected government of non-politicians is
serving out the term of the current legislature, which ends in
spring 2013. Monti could be toppled before then as he relies on
the political parties in Parliament, which must still approve
the competition and deregulation laws to make them permanent.  Northern League leader Umberto Bossi Berlusconi’s coalition
partner in the previous government has pushed the former premier
to aid in bringing down Monti. Berlusconi has so far pledged to
support his successor.  Monti’s popularity gained last month even after he pushed
through the austerity bill. Confidence in Monti climbed five
percentage points to 57 percent from the previous monthly
survey, Rome-based IPR Marketing said Feb. 1 in a poll for daily
Repubblica. Berlusconi’s rating was 22 percent in the last IPR
taken on his government in November.  “Monti is one of the things that’s making some of the real
euro skeptics question themselves,”  Jim O’Neill , chairman of
Goldman Sachs Asset Management, said in a telephone interview.
“He’s become perhaps the most thoughtful leader in Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 