-- Oracle Buys Taleo for $1.9 Billion
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-02-09T21:39:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/oracle-will-purchase-taleo-for-46-a-share-in-deal-valued-at-1-9-billion.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  made its second
acquisition in three months, agreeing to buy human-resources
software company  Taleo Corp. (TLEO)  for about $1.9 billion to expand in
cloud computing and respond to a December deal by  SAP AG. (SAP)   Holders of Taleo will get $46 a share, Redwood City,
California-based Oracle, the second-largest software company,
said today in a statement. That’s 18 percent higher than Taleo’s
closing share price yesterday.  Taleo gives Oracle tools that help companies manage human
resources, recruit employees and set compensation. The deal
provides a counterweight to SAP’s planned acquisition of talent-
management company  SuccessFactors Inc. (SFSF)  for $3.4 billion,
according to Anurag Rana, a Bloomberg Industries analyst. Taleo
and SuccessFactors focus on the fast growing business of
delivering software over the Web, rather than installing
programs on customers’ computers.  “It’s where the puck is going,” said Rana, a senior
software analyst based in Princeton,  New Jersey . “That’s the
model most software companies will go to over the next several
years.”  Oracle rose less than one percent to $28.89 at the close in
 New York . Taleo, based in Dublin, California,  jumped  17 percent
to $45.64.  Oracle is using  acquisitions  to build its cloud business to
help blunt the impact of a possible slowdown in software sales
growth. Cloud software is meant to appeal to customers seeking
to save money by letting them access computing power over the
Web.  Buying Spree  Chief Executive Officer Larry Ellison has snapped up more
than 70 companies in a $40 billion buying spree to add  programs 
that help large corporations manage human resources and
operations. In October, Oracle agreed to buy  RightNow
Technologies Inc. (RNOW)  for $1.5 billion.  The Taleo deal may help Oracle avoid losing potential sales
to closely held HR software maker Workday Inc., which plans an
initial public offering this year. Oracle is also competing in
the software-as-a-service market with  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) ,  Peter Goldmacher , a Cowen & Co. analyst,  said in a research note
today.  In December, Oracle reported fiscal second-quarter earnings
that missed analysts’ estimates as the company had trouble
closing deals.  Mark Moerdler, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in
New York, said Taleo fits Oracle’s strategy of aggressively
moving into the fast-growing cloud-computing market.  “It gives them, as did RightNow, knowledge and expertise
DNA in the software-as-a-service market,” said Moerdler, who
rates Oracle “market perform.”  Taleo’s technology is used by 5,000 organizations. The
acquisition is expected to close mid-year, Oracle said. The
acquisition gives Taleo an enterprise value of 4.7 times its
estimated sales this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. SAP paid 7.4 times SuccessFactors’ estimated sales.  “Oracle did not overpay for this deal, as is Larry’s
habit,” said Bloomberg Industries’s Rana. “He doesn’t overpay
for deals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  