-- Toronto-Dominion’s Clark Says Banks Tightening Loans Amid Housing Concern
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   T r i s h   R e g a n
-- 2012-02-09T15:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/toronto-dominion-bank-says-lenders-tightening-lending-amid-housing-concern.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank Chief Executive
Officer  Edmund Clark  said Canada’s banks are tightening lending
standards in response to a “genuine concern” about the
country’s housing boom and rising consumer debt levels.  “ Household debt  numbers are coming up to U.S. levels, so
that is causing us a concern,” Clark, 64, said yesterday in an
interview on Bloomberg Television.  Canada’s banks are in talks with the federal government
about ways to curb mortgage lending to ensure the country avoids
a U.S.-style housing correction, he said. The banks have
responded by restricting some lending and raising prices on
higher-risk borrowers, Clark said.  “We are trying to have a national dialogue that changes
people’s behavior and a number of banks like us have said ‘ok,
if we think people’s debt loads are getting high let’s start to
crank up the pricing a little,” Clark said from Bloomberg’s
headquarters in New York.  Canada ’s housing market has surged since the 2009 recession
as near-record low  mortgage rates  fueled prices and home
purchases, unlike the U.S., where sales and values have fallen
since 2007. Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  has said record
consumer debts are the greatest domestic threat to the country’s
financial institutions, even as the central bank has held the
benchmark rate at 1 percent since September 2010.  Not the U.S.  Canada’s situation is different from what happened in the
U.S. that led to a housing correction, according to Clark.
Canadian  household debt  rose to a record 153 percent of
disposable income in the third quarter of 2011 as borrowing
increased,  Statistics Canada  said Dec. 13. That compares with
146 percent in the U.S.  “There’s nothing going on in Canada like what happened in
the  United States  because the banks own the mortgages, we put
them on our own balance sheet,” Clark said. “But it doesn’t
mean we couldn’t have a problem where we grew too fast the
household debt and housing prices rose.”  The Canadian government prefers that banks “tweak” their
own lending standards rather than it imposing “major
tightening” of mortgage-lending rules, Clark said.  “They’re worried that the Canadian economy is slowing down
right now and that’s taking out a bazooka,” Clark said. “We
have seen the banks in a series of small moves say ok, ‘why we
don’t tweak here and tweak there and see if we can tighten the
rules.’”  Mortgage Special Ends  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  joined Royal Bank of Canada this week
in ending a promotional 2.99 percent four-year mortgage rate,
three weeks before it was set to expire. The new rate is 3.39
percent. The two banks announced the special four-year rate on
Jan. 13, following Bank of Montreal’s move to lower its five-
year mortgage rate to a record low for the lender.  Clark said banks are tightening lending on loans for
condominiums, as high-rise construction in Toronto and  Vancouver 
has boomed.  “Banks are leaning against it in the condo market right
now and leaning against it in the unsecured lending market and
just a general leaning against borrowing,” said Clark. He said
the changes may lead to a “successful soft landing” for the
housing market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Trish Regan in  New York  at 
 tregan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  