-- Oscar Winner’s Studio for London Olympics May Struggle to Attract Tenants
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-02-09T11:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/oscar-winner-s-studio-for-2012-olympics-may-struggle-after-games.html
The government-owned London film
studio where Oscar-winning director  Danny Boyle  is planning the
Olympic Games’ opening ceremony may struggle to attract tenants
after the Games, according to  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)   The Three Mills studio complex has limited value in its
current form and its inferior location with poor quality
buildings for office and industrial use may damp tenant demand,
the U.S. property broker said in documents obtained by Bloomberg
News through a Freedom of Information Act request.  “Demand for the use of these buildings is likely to be
limited in the immediate post-Olympic period,” Chicago-based
 Jones Lang  said in the documents. “Owing to the level of
vacancy rates, the poor tenant covenant strength and the
remaining term unexpired, an investor will take a dim view on
the studio and commercial property.”  The  London  Development Agency purchased the complex for 23
million pounds ($36 million) in 2004, the year before the city
was awarded the Games, according to a  budget report . The Legacy
Company, which was set up to sell and lease properties built for
the Games, acquired the site in October 2010 as part of an
agreement to buy Olympic land assets at a 25 percent discount.  It was valued by Jones Lang at 19.95 million pounds as of
April 13, 2011, down from 26.75 million pounds in May 2009,
according to the documents. Felicity Young, a spokeswoman for
the broker, didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment.  “The site was purchased by the Legacy Company for around
20 million pounds in 2010 and this is the value at which the
asset is held on the Legacy Company’s account,” a spokesman
said by e-mail. “The 2009 report states that had the site been
sold individually, its value would be around 26.75 million
pounds.”  ‘Isles of Wonder’  Boyle, who’s 2008 movie “ Slumdog Millionaire ” won eight
Academy Awards including best picture and best director, is
using the space to rehearse his William Shakespeare-inspired
“Isles of Wonder” concept for the opening ceremony of the
Games on July 27, he said at a briefing at the studio last
month. The site is located near the main Olympic stadiums in
East London.  After the Games, the Three Mills complex will continue to
be operated as a film and television studio, the Olympic Park
Legacy Company said in the e-mail.  The Legacy Company was set up to generate revenue from the
Olympic properties as London tries to avoid the experience of
previous host cities like  Athens  that were left with underused
or dormant structures. The Games end on Aug. 12 and are followed
by the  Paralympic Games  on Aug. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 