-- OSE President Says Glitch at Tokyo Stock Exchange No Barrier to Merger
-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2012-02-09T09:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/ose-president-says-glitch-at-tokyo-stock-exchange-no-barrier-to-merger.html
The merger of  Japan ’s two biggest
bourses won’t be derailed by the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s worst
trading disruption in six years or European regulators blocking
another deal last week,  Osaka Securities Exchange Co.  President
 Michio Yoneda  said.  Trading of 241 companies including Sony Corp. was halted on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange for 2 1/2 hours on Feb. 2 because of a
computer server error. The exchange is still investigating the
glitch and has yet to brief  Osaka , Yoneda, 62, said in an
interview yesterday.  The disruption at the TSE came a day after the European
Union vetoed a plan by  Deutsche Boerse  AG and NYSE Euronext to
create the world’s largest exchange, concluding the deal would
hurt competition.  Tokyo  Stock Exchange Group Inc. and its Osaka
rival cited a global wave of bourse mergers and cost savings
from integrating computer systems as reasons for combining when
they announced the takeover bid on Nov. 22.  “The glitch last week doesn’t affect the deal,” Yoneda
said in Osaka. “What’s happened elsewhere won’t impact
developments here,” he said, referring to the failed deal
between Deutsche Boerse, operator of the Frankfurt Stock
Exchange and  NYSE Euronext , which runs the New York Stock
Exchange and venues in Amsterdam, Lisbon, London and Paris.  Regulatory Resistance  Japan’s Fair Trade Commission last week started the second
phase of its review into the merger between Osaka and the 133-
year-old Tokyo Stock Exchange. Deals worth $37 billion have been
proposed between global exchanges in the past 15 months, with
cross-border plans meeting resistance from regulators.  Tokyo Stock Exchange handles 89 percent of the trading
volume on the Topix index, while Osaka is the only Japanese
venue for trading futures on the Nikkei 225 Stock Average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The planned merger between Tokyo and Osaka comes after
Japan lost its place as the world’s second-largest equity market
to  China  and as trading volume and foreign listings fall.  One of the aims of the merger is boosting global
competitiveness as “money is moving not just in Japan, but
globally,” said Yoneda, who is slated to become chief operating
officer of the new company if the deal goes through. The
combined venue may expand its trading hours in order to lure
foreign companies, he said.  “If the trading hours for equities were extended, it might
make it easier for investors not just in Tokyo, but in other
countries to buy and sell,” said Tatsushi Maeno, head of
investment at PineBridge Investments Japan Co. in Tokyo. “For
global players like us, it would also be a positive.”  The number of companies based  outside Japan  that list on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange fell to 11 last year from 125 in 1990.
By contrast, the number of foreign companies listed in  Hong Kong 
has more than double to 24 in the past 10 years, according to
Scott Sapp, a spokesman for Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Ltd.  “After the merger, we’re open to considering partnerships
or even mergers with overseas exchanges if that proves to be
more efficient,” Yoneda said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in
Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 