-- U.K. Stocks Climb on Greek Austerity Deal, BOE Decision; BG Group Advances
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-02-09T17:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/most-u-k-stocks-rise-before-bank-of-england-decision-bg-gains.html
U.K. stocks  rose, snapping three days
of declines, as Greek political leaders struck a deal on
austerity measures and the  Bank of England  raised its asset-
purchase target.  BG Group Plc (BG/)  climbed 3.2 percent after saying it plans to
sell $5 billion of assets in the next two years.  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc (GSK)  increased 1.2 percent.  Rio Tinto  Group fell 1.5 percent
after reporting a loss in the second half.  The  FTSE 100  Index advanced 19.54, or 0.3 percent, to
5,895.47 at the close in London. The gauge has  rallied 19
percent  from last year’s lowest level on Oct. 4. The FTSE All-
Share Index and Ireland’s ISEQ Index added 0.4 percent each.  BOE policy makers raised the target for bond purchases to
325 billion pounds ($516 billion), more than a quarter of
current outstanding gilts, according to a statement in  London 
today. The increase was forecast by 34 of 50 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “The market had long been expecting an increase of 50
billion pounds and the Bank of England delivered on that
expectation,” said Joshua Raymond, chief market strategist at
City Index Ltd. “As much of the increase had already been
priced in, the stock market reaction was minimal.”  Greek leaders agreed today on spending cuts that may pave
the way for a deal to reduce debt and win a bailout.
“Discussions between the Greek government and the troika
were successfully completed this morning,” the press office of
Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said.  Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos arrived in Brussels
for a meeting of euro-area finance ministers this evening to
discuss a 130 billion-euro ($173 billion) rescue and a debt swap
that will impose a loss of about 70 percent for investors.  Factory Output  ECB policy makers, at a meeting in  Frankfurt  today, left
the  interest rate  for the euro area at a record low of 1
percent, as predicted by 55 of 57 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. The bank’s chief  Mario Draghi  declined to comment today
on whether the ECB will use its Greek bonds to reduce the
country’s debt.  A report showed that U.K.  manufacturing production 
increased in December more than economists had forecast, led by
transport equipment and food. Factory output increased 1 percent
from November, when it fell a revised 0.1 percent, the  Office
for National Statistics  said today in London. A separate report
showed U.S. jobless claims fell unexpectedly last week.  BG Group climbed 3.2 percent to 1,491.5 pence for the
biggest contribution to the  FTSE 100’s advance  after posting
fourth-quarter earnings excluding disposals and one-off items of
$1.5 billion, beating analysts’ estimates for profit of $1.1
billion. The U.K.’s third-largest natural-gas producer also said
it plans to sell $5 billion of assets to maintain its investment
in projects this year and next.  GlaxoSmithKline, SVG  GlaxoSmithKline rose 1.2 percent to 1,409 pence after
saying it will be more selective in choosing European countries
to introduce new products. The U.K.’s largest drugmaker it isn’t
interested in acquisitions in diagnostics, Chief Financial
Officer Simon Dingemans said.  Roche Holding AG  has made a
hostile bid for Illumina Inc., a U.S. diagnostics company.  SVG Capital Plc, the biggest backer of private equity firm
Permira Advisers LLP, surged 8.4 percent to 257.9 pence after
saying the value of its assets increased 11 percent last year as
its holdings in companies outperformed stock markets.  Rio Tinto fell 1.5 percent to 3,815 pence for the biggest
drag on the FTSE 100. The world’s  third-largest mining company 
swung to a loss after taking a one-time charge of $8.9 billion
on the value of its aluminum business.  Tate & Lyle Plc (TATE)  dropped 3.2 percent to 672.5 pence as
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Jefferies Group Inc. reiterated
“underperform” ratings after the supplier of caster sugar
reported third-quarter earnings in line with its forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story: Namitha Jagadeesh in
London at   njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Andrew Rummer
at   arummer@bloomberg.net  