-- House Republicans Pressure White House on Solyndra Documents
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-02-09T22:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/house-republicans-press-white-house-on-solyndra-documents.html
Republicans in Congress, expressing
frustration that the Obama administration hasn’t provided all
documents on Solyndra LLC’s $535 million U.S. loan guarantee,
set Feb. 21 for officials to comply with a November subpoena.  Republicans on the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s
investigations panel also asked that five White House officials
be made available for interviews, according to a letter sent
today to  Kathryn Ruemmler , counsel to President Barack Obama,
and Cynthia Hogan, counsel to Vice President  Joe Biden .  Failure to comply with the committee’s request will
“compel us to pursue all options available” to deal with
“such obstructive behavior,” according to the letter.  Representative  Fred Upton  of Michigan, chairman of the
energy committee, was one of 14 Republicans to sign the letter.  The Republicans said failure by the White House Office of
Management and Budget to provide three of the five witnesses by
Feb. 17 will force the subcommittee to consider subpoenas.  Republicans have questioned whether Obama campaign
fundraiser George Kaiser, whose family foundation was Solyndra’s
biggest investor, pressed for the guarantee. Kaiser has said he
didn’t lobby for the loan backing.  “Congress has now been investigating this loan for almost
a year and everything disclosed in the 187,000 pages of
documents, nine committee staff briefings, five Congressional
hearings, 72,000 pages from Solyndra investors, and committee
interview with  George Kaiser , affirms this was a merit-based
decision made by the Department of Energy,” Eric Schultz, a
White House spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Solyndra sought  bankruptcy protection  in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  