-- House to Tighten Insider-Trading Ban
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-02-09T16:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/house-to-vote-on-bill-tightening-lawmaker-insider-trading-ban.html
The U.S. House voted to strengthen
the ban on  insider trading  by members of Congress and other
government officials amid a record-low public approval rating of
the way lawmakers do their work.  The measure, approved 417-2 today in Washington, would bar
members of Congress, their staffs and some executive branch
workers from trading stocks, commodities or futures based on
non-public information they learn on the job. The Senate passed
a different version of the bill, S. 2038, on Feb. 2.  The House measure, offered by Majority Leader  Eric Cantor ,
a  Virginia (BEESVA)  Republican, omits a Senate provision that would set a
new disclosure requirement for companies that gather political
information and sell it to investors.  “Can you believe what a few people in the House did to put
this bill together behind closed doors?” Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican who sponsored the provision in his
chamber, said today on Bloomberg Television.  Grassley said he will continue working to require the
disclosure. “I’m not going to forget about this, and it’s not
going to go away,” he said.  President Barack Obama has urged Congress to pass the
insider-trading measure, which would require members of
Congress, as well as some government officials and workers in
independent federal agencies, to report any trades of $1,000 or
more within 30 days. The rule wouldn’t apply to widely held
investment funds.  Fannie,  Freddie (FMCC)   Voting against the measure today were Republican
Representatives  John Campbell  of  California  and Rob Woodall of
Georgia. The bill also would block bonuses for executives of
 Fannie (FNMA)  Mae and  Freddie Mac  while the mortgage-financing agencies
remain in government conservatorship.  Though members of Congress aren’t exempt from existing
federal insider-trading laws, the Constitution’s protection of
their “speech or debate” may make it hard to investigate
potential violations under current law.  A  Gallup poll  yesterday showed that a record-low 10 percent
of Americans approve of the job Congress is doing, down from the
previous low of 11 percent in December. The nationwide poll was
conducted Feb. 2-5 among 1,029 adults.  CBS’s “60 Minutes” reported in November that some members
of Congress, including House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  and
Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California, bought stock in
companies while legislation that might affect those businesses
was being debated. Both said they did nothing wrong.  Pelosi, during floor debate today, called the House bill
“much diminished” from the Senate version, though she urged
lawmakers to vote for it so the matter can be sent to a
conference committee to create “the strongest possible bill.”  Wall Street Lobbyists  White House press secretary Jay Carney yesterday criticized
the changes being made in the House. He said the Senate
legislation “is being weakened behind closed doors by  House
Republicans ” under pressure from  Wall Street  lobbyists.  The House version deletes a requirement in the Senate bill
that would extend some lobbyist disclosure rules to cover people
involved in so-called political intelligence.  The House bill instead would order a study on political
intelligence, defined as communication with members of Congress,
congressional staff or executive branch employees to gain
information that is sold to clients who intend “to use the
information to inform investment decisions.”  The Senate disclosure provision “raises an awful lot of
questions” about what it would cover, Cantor said today. “The
thrust of this bill is about making sure that none of us in
elected office or those in the executive branch are able to
profit from nonpublic information.”  Securities Association  The Senate’s disclosure provision was the subject of a rare
weekend call on Feb. 4 for members of the Securities Industry
and Financial Markets Association, which represents companies
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JP Morgan Chase & Co. ,
according to two people with direct knowledge of the call. An
analysis for the group said the provision might require bank
research analysts and others to register with Congress and
disclose contacts with government officials.  Andrew DeSouza, a spokesman for the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association, said the group wouldn’t comment
on the proposed legislation.  Minnesota Democrat Tim Walz, who sponsored a similar
provision in the House, said bank analysts weren’t the target of
the political intelligence disclosure rule. Walz said he would
support clarifying the language to exclude bank analysts if it
would help reinstate other disclosure requirements that
Republican leaders dropped.  Pelosi Provision  The House measure includes a provision Republicans call a
“Pelosi provision” to bar lawmakers from participating in
initial public stock offerings that aren’t available to the
general public.  Representative Louise Slaughter, a New York Democrat who
was the initial sponsor of the legislation, told reporters she
didn’t intend to micromanage the financial transactions of
lawmakers.  Slaughter accused House Republican leaders of including the
IPO provision “to cause grief” to Pelosi, whose husband’s
purchase of stock in  Visa Inc. (V)  during a 2008 initial public
offering was highlighted by “60 Minutes.”  The House bill also would extend to senior executive branch
officials, federal judges and senior judicial employees an
existing rule requiring disclosure when they are in negotiations
about a possible new job.  Public Corruption  Cantor’s version leaves out language by Senate Judiciary
Committee Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat, that would
have tightened rules on public corruption while stiffening
fines.  Dropping that language from the House bill is a missed
opportunity “to enact serious anti-corruption legislation,”
Leahy said in an e-mailed statement.  The House Judiciary Committee had adopted language similar
to Leahy’s. It was designed to overturn a 2010 Supreme Court
decision -- in the case of former  Enron Corp (ENRNQ) . executive  Jeffrey Skilling  -- that made it harder for the  Justice Department  to
prosecute public officials for depriving citizens of their
“honest services.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in  Washington  at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  