-- Toyota Targets 25% U.S. Lexus Sales Gain
-- B y   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a ,   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-02-09T20:41:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/toyota-forecasts-lexus-sales-in-u-s-may-increase-25-this-year.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s  Lexus ,
dethroned in 2011 as the best-selling U.S. luxury brand, plans
to increase sales there more than 25 percent this year and
challenge  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s grip on the top spot.  Sales of Lexus vehicles in the U.S. may reach 250,000, from
198,552 in 2011, Kazuo Ohara, senior managing officer for Lexus,
told reporters in Miyazaki,  Japan , late yesterday. Gains will
come from the new GS sedan that went on sale this month and a
revamped ES sedan that arrives by midyear, he said.  “Last year we had some problems with earthquake and Thai
floods,” Ohara said. Outselling Germany’s BMW and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
Mercedes-Benz in the U.S. is a goal, “if possible,” he said.  Toyota, which also lost its title as the world’s biggest
carmaker to General Motors Co. last year, wants a global rebound
in 2012 with sales including subsidiaries  Hino Motors Ltd. (7205)  and
Daihatsu Motor Co. rising 21 percent to a record 9.58 million.
Restoring volume for Lexus, which led U.S. luxury sales for 11
years, is a priority because its cars and trucks fetch higher
prices than Toyota-brand vehicles.  Japan’s earthquake and tsunami in March 2011 and floods in
Thailand late last year caused shortages of parts and materials
that temporarily idled the Toyota City, Japan-based company’s
plants, leaving dealers short of vehicles.  That allowed BMW to outsell Lexus with 247,907 deliveries,
followed by Mercedes with 245,192 sales last year.  ‘Not Quite Enough’  Lexus “has a shot, but I still don’t think they’ll be able
to reclaim the lead this year,” said Jesse Toprak, a  Santa
Monica , California-based analyst at auto industry researcher
TrueCar.com.  “They will have some momentum because of the new products,
and some pent-up demand, but probably not quite enough this
year,” Toprak said.  The brand is adding nine new and refreshed cars and light
trucks in 2012, including GS and ES,  Mark Templin , Lexus’ U.S.
chief, said last month. Three “F-sport” models, Lexus cars
tuned for high-performance, are also being added, he said.  “When the dust settles I think we will grow more than any
other brand we compete with this year,” Templin said in an
interview in Detroit last month.  U.S. sales units for both Toyota and Lexus are in Torrance,
 California .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  