-- Pakistan Prices Surging 10% May Force Central Bank to Hold Rates
-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2012-02-09T19:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/pakistan-prices-surging-10-may-force-central-bank-to-hold-rates.html
Pakistan  may hold  interest rates  for
a second straight meeting as the fastest inflation in  Asia  after
 Vietnam  constrains the central bank’s scope to ease policy and
revive the economy.  The  State Bank  of Pakistan will hold the discount rate at
12 percent, seven of 11 economists said in a Bloomberg News
 survey . Two predicted a cut to 11 percent and the rest a half-
point reduction. The decision is due in Karachi tomorrow.  Consumer prices rose 10.1 percent last month in Pakistan,
where growth is faltering after two major floods damaged crops
in 2010 and 2011 and as an insurgency near the Afghan border 
hurts expansion. The disasters, security risks, elevated
inflation and a budget shortfall have left the economy “highly
vulnerable,” the  International Monetary Fund  said this week.  “It will be a difficult decision for the central bank to
choose monetary discipline against supporting growth,” said
Nurali Barkatali, an economist at BMA Capital Management Ltd. in
Karachi. “But the inflation numbers are again on a rising path.
Government borrowing is also above the agreed levels, which may
convince the central bank not to reduce rates.”  Australia left rates unchanged this week and  South Korea 
held off raising borrowing costs. Pakistan’s central bank cut
rates by 2 percentage points in 2011, joining nations such as
Indonesia in easing policy as  Europe ’s debt crisis hampered
global expansion, before pausing in November.  Inflation Accelerates  Pakistan’s  inflation  in January accelerated from a 9.75
percent pace in December and was the second-fastest in a basket
of 17 Asia-Pacific economies tracked by Bloomberg.  Central bank data shows  government borrowing  from the
monetary authority rose 24 percent to 141.7 billion rupees ($1.6
billion) from July 1 to Jan. 27 compared with a year earlier.  The Pakistan rupee is down 6.1 percent against the dollar
in the past year on concern foreign reserves will shrink as
international aid dwindles.  Political risks have also deterred investors, with Prime
Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  facing a contempt-of-court charge
that threatens to force him from office.  The IMF said Feb. 6 Pakistan should broaden the tax base,
curb some subsidies and curtail central bank financing of a
budget gap that may rise to 7 percent of gross domestic product
in the fiscal year ending June.  Monetary policy  is “too
accommodative,” it said.  An $11.3 billion IMF loan to Pakistan expired in September,
with disbursements suspended in May 2010 after the country
failed to meet conditions attached to it. The lender forecasts
GDP will rise 3.4 percent in the fiscal year through June.  Aid Flows  The U.S., the country’s largest export market and aid
provider, held back $800 million in military assistance in July
out of $2 billion pledged for this fiscal year because of
disputes over how to combat terrorism.  Floods in August forced more than 1 million people from
their homes, while militant attacks have killed at least 35,000
people since 2006, according to estimates from the government.  The $175 billion economy grew 2.4 percent in the year
through June 2011, one of the smallest expansions in a decade.  Higher borrowing costs are capping industrial expansion,
said Muhammad Fazlullah Shariff, chief executive officer Thatta
Cement Co., a Pakistani maker of building materials. “I can
hope for a rates decline, but it seems very unlikely,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farhan Sharif in Karachi at 
 Fsharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  