-- Palm Oil Declines as Monthly Board Report May Miss Expectations
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-02-09T10:36:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/palm-oil-declines-as-monthly-board-report-may-miss-expectations.html
Palm oil dropped on speculation that
a government report due for release tomorrow that includes
stockpiles in  Malaysia , the second-largest producer, may not
show as big a decline in reserves last month as forecast.  The April-delivery contract fell 0.2 percent to close at
3,148 ringgit ($1,047) a metric ton on the Malaysia Derivatives
Exchange. The edible oil, 0.9 percent lower this year, rallied
2.3 percent yesterday amid speculation that the reserves are set
to decline.  “A bearish report would open the floodgates for a massive
profit take,” said Paramalingam Subramaniam, director of
brokerage Pelindung Bestari Sdn., referring to the Malaysian
Palm Oil Board report, which also has output and export data.  Futures advanced yesterday after a Bloomberg survey showed
that January inventories probably fell to a five-month low.
 Stockpiles (PASTTOTL)  lost 2.4 percent to 1.99 million tons, dropping below
the 2 million-mark for the first time since August, according to
the survey of three analysts and two plantation companies.  “ Palm oil  is correcting, consolidating from yesterday’s
sharp rise,” said Chandran Sinnasamy, trading head at Kuala
Lumpur-based LT International Futures (M) Sdn. Chandran expects
stockpiles to be 2.05 million tons, as exports continue to slow.  Output (PALPCPO)  may have dropped 13 percent to 1.3 million tons, the
lowest level since February last year, while  exports  lost 15
percent to 1.35 million tons, the biggest decline since August
2010, the survey also showed.  USDA Assessment  Investors “are keeping an eye on the February crop
production as well as the supply-and-demand reports,”
Gnanasekar Thiagarajan, a director at Commtrendz Risk Management
Services Pvt., said in a report, referring to the global crop
estimates that are to be released by the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington  today. The U.S. outlook
will cover soybeans, which are crushed to make a rival oil.  Malaysian palm oil exports to  Iran  have suffered as a
result of U.S. sanctions on the Middle East nation,
International Trade and Industry Minister Mustapa Mohamed told
reporters in Kuala Lumpur today.  Soybeans for March delivery were little changed at $12.305
a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 6:09 p.m.  Soybean oil ,
a substitute for palm oil in food and fuel, traded little
changed at 52.60 cents per pound.  Palm oil for September delivery gained 0.2 percent to close
at 8,246 yuan ($1,310) a ton on the  Dalian Commodity Exchange .
Soybean oil for September declined 0.2 percent to end at 9,286
yuan a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  