-- Paul Allen’s Vulcan Urges Seattle to Increase Its Building-Height Limits
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-02-09T18:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/paul-allen-s-vulcan-urges-seattle-to-increase-its-building-height-limits.html
Billionaire Paul Allen wants Seattle
to grow up -- again.  City planners are preparing a recommendation on raising
height limits for new buildings in South Lake Union, the former
warehouse district north of downtown where  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  moved
its headquarters. Vulcan Inc., Allen’s Seattle-based investment
company, is the main proponent of taller buildings in the area.  It would be the third time since 2005 that  Seattle  has
raised the maximum height of buildings in and near downtown. The
potential change, to be presented by June to the mayor, was
spurred in part by a  forecast  that Seattle will gain as many as
100,000 residents and 84,000 jobs by 2024. Mayor Mike McGinn
will make a recommendation to the city council, which is likely
to reach a decision by the end of the year.  Vulcan’s  real estate unit  owns about one-sixth of the land
in South Lake Union, where it has added or is building 5 million
square feet (465,000 square meters) of offices, stores,
restaurants, apartments and medical-research labs.  “There are many community benefits to building up,” said
Ada M. Healey, vice president of real estate for Vulcan, in an
interview. “It’s a more efficient use of limited resources, and
better environmentally. The best solution for the city is a
smart approach to density that incorporates taller buildings
where it makes sense.”  ‘Hottest Neighborhood’  Vulcan wants new apartment towers near the lake shore. More
stories will mean more residents, creating a  livelier
neighborhood , generating  tax revenue  and allowing people who
work downtown to walk to their jobs or use public
transportation, which would reduce pollution, Healey said.  “South Lake Union is the hottest neighborhood for retail
in Seattle,” said Jeremy Moller, a broker at JSH Properties
Inc. “Traditional retail strongholds command higher rents and
have higher sales volumes, but no neighborhood has more buzz or
interest from retailers at this time.”  A group called the  Lake Union Opportunity Alliance 
advocates a step-down to the waterfront, with the tallest
properties farthest from the lake, home to Seattle’s annual
Fourth of July fireworks display. The alliance doesn’t oppose
taller buildings, as long as they aren’t built adjacent to the
water, said Chris Gemmill, a spokesman for the group, made up
mainly of residents and small-business owners in the area.  No ‘Money Block’  “We don’t want a ‘money block’ of 300-foot towers at the
lake, which could cause the rest of the area to stagnate
economically,” Gemmill said in an interview. Construction ought
to mimic the natural bowl-like topography of the area, which is
surrounded by Queen Anne Hill to the west,  Capitol Hill  to the
East and office towers in the central business district to the
south, he said.  Current zoning can accommodate the projected population and
job growth in South Lake Union through 2024, Gemmill said.  “We don’t want to build more than we need and incentivize
a boom-and-bust cycle or impede development opportunities in the
downtown core,” Gemmill said.  Under current zoning, 16,000 jobs and 8,000 households are
expected to be added to South Lake Union between 2004 and 2024.
Amazon.com alone has relocated “thousands” of employees to the
district since moving its headquarters in 2010, said Mary Osako,
a company spokeswoman. She declined to give the exact number of
workers who moved.  Amazon.com’s South Lake Union campus has room for about
8,500 employees based on its space built or under construction
and the industry average of 200 square feet per employee. The
company also leases space nearby with room for an additional
4,600 employees, based on the same formula.  Three Height Options  Seattle’s  Department of Planning and Development  is
considering three  alternatives  for increasing height limits, as
well as the option of maintaining current zoning, said James
Holmes, a senior urban planner at the department. The first
alternative calls for the highest limits, of as much as 240 feet
(73 meters) for commercial buildings and 400 feet for
residential, with the other two plans calling for smaller
changes.  “We’ve been looking for a few years at appropriate
heights,” Holmes said. There would need to be a benefit to the
public in exchange for taller buildings, he said. “Affordable
housing is heavily weighted because it’s an urban center.”  Most of the  neighborhood  is currently zoned for maximum
heights of 65 feet to 85 feet, or about six to seven stories,
depending on the block, Holmes said. Near the lake front, on
Valley and Mercer streets, the maximum height is 40 feet.
Heights of 65 feet are allowed as long as 25 percent of the
development area is devoted to publicly accessible open space,
he said.  BioMed Center Approval  Rezoning already has been accomplished in parts of South
Lake Union as individual projects have sought and won approval
for lifting height restrictions.  BioMed Realty Trust Inc. (BMR) , a San
Diego-based owner of biotechnology and pharmaceutical offices
and labs, won city council approval in December to build a
research center to 85 feet.  “There have been enough contract rezones within South Lake
Union that are consistent with the proposed rezoning that it
seems apparent the rezoning will go forward,” said Lisa Picard,
executive vice president and regional head in Seattle for
Skanska USA, the New York-based unit of Swedish construction
company  Skanska AB. (SKAB)   The company in January bought 43,000 square feet at 400
Fairview Avenue North and is seeking a zoning change to build an
office-and-retail complex at the site, Picard said.  ‘Urban Centers’  “You need a certain amount of density to support a really
active ground floor,” Picard said.  The Planning Department expects to release a final
environmental impact statement on the proposed changes within
two months, and a final city council decision is likely by the
end of 2012, Holmes said.  South Lake Union is one of six areas Seattle designated as
“urban centers” in the city’s 2004 growth plan. Seattle
officials want to foster a concentration of jobs and housing in
those areas to preserve single-family neighborhoods and protect
natural resources. Other urban centers include the Northgate
area, home to a  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG)  shopping mall.  South Lake Union is a mostly square-shaped neighborhood
bordered by the lake at the north, Denny Way to the south,
Aurora Avenue at the west and Interstate 5 to the east. The
district includes two stretches extending north along the lake’s
western and eastern shores.  Allen’s Fortune  Vulcan has already built or is constructing about half its
development potential in South Lake Union. The company owns
about 57 acres (23 hectares) in South Lake Union, said Lori
Mason Curran, director of real estate investment strategy at
Vulcan. The district has a total of about 330 acres, according
to the city.  Allen, Vulcan’s founder, also is the co-founder of
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the main source of his fortune. The 59-year-old
philanthropist and owner of the Seattle Seahawks football team
had a net worth of $13.2 billion in 2011, making him the 23rd-
richest American, according to Forbes magazine. He began
acquiring land in South Lake Union in 1996 with the goal of
creating a waterfront park to be called Seattle Commons, an idea
that voters rejected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  