-- Pentagon Opening More Posts to Women Short of Ground-Combat
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-02-09T22:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/pentagon-said-to-back-more-jobs-for-women-close-to-front-lines.html
The U.S. military plans to open more
support jobs for women closer to the front lines while
continuing to bar them from direct ground-combat roles.  The changes would let more women serve in battalions,
smaller units closer to the front, in more than 1,000 support
positions such as communications or as medics, according to a
Pentagon report released today. More than 13,000 other positions
would be opened by eliminating a rule barring women from jobs
that only exist in ground-combat units. Congress will have 30
days to block the policy before it goes into effect.  The Pentagon rejected calls from two advisory boards to
eliminate all restrictions, including in units involved in
direct ground combat. The military disputed the contention of
women’s groups that restrictions on combat involvement hurt
promotion chances for the 205,000 women among the military’s 1.4
million people on active duty and more in the reserves.  The Pentagon “did not find indication of females having
less than equitable opportunities to compete and excel under
current assignment policy,” according to the report. Still, the
department is developing gender-neutral physical standards for
certain tasks that will open more assignments.  While the proposal opens an additional 14,000 jobs to
women, 238,000 positions will remain closed, according to
department figures, even after a decade of war that has seen
women on the front lines because of exceptions to the rules.  Today’s decision doesn’t go far enough because assignments
remain off-limits for women, Nancy Duff Campbell, co-president
of the National Women’s Law Center in  Washington , said today in
a statement.  Picking ‘Best Person’  “The  Department of Defense  should ensure the readiness of
the force by establishing once and for all that when the best
person for a job is a woman, her gender should not stand in the
way,” she said.  The department needs more time to study the effects of
further changes and will examine the policy again in six months
to see whether more positions can be opened, according to Vee
Penrod, deputy assistant secretary of defense for personnel
policy.  “To make a change this large while you’re at war is
difficult,” said Penrod, a 35-year Air Force veteran who now
serves in the department as a civilian. Briefing reporters at
the Pentagon, she said some commanders in the Army and Marine
Corps are pushing for more restrictions to be lifted.  Women’s Share  Women make up 15 percent of active-duty personnel, 7
percent of general or flag officers and 11 percent of the senior
enlisted force, according to the report.  “These figures are strong, given that retention of women
is significantly less than that of men beyond 20 years of
service, where the majority of these promotions to the senior
grades occur,” the department said in the report being sent to
Congress.  Congress’s Military Leadership Diversity Commission and the
60-year-old Defense Advisory Committee on Women in the Services
each recommended in December 2010 that the military eliminate a
1994 policy on excluding women from combat.  The policy expanded access for women while prohibiting
their assignments to units below the brigade level when a unit’s
primary mission is direct ground combat. The restriction doesn’t
exclude women from fighting because they can be assigned to
combat zones in support jobs.  Bunking Arrangements  One of the restrictions being lifted will open 80 units and
six occupational specialties previously closed to women because
they must be located with ground combat units, according to the
report.  Remaining “practical barriers” the department cited today
for not going further include bunking arrangements on ships and
other privacy concerns.  Among the most restricted areas remaining for women is
special operations, an area the military will rely on more in
the coming decade under a new defense strategy unveiled last
month that calls for more small, nimble and highly trained
units.  The changes proposed today will affect mainly the Army and
Marine Corps because more types of jobs are open to women in the
 Air Force  and the Navy.  In the Air Force, 99 percent of positions are open to
women, and the Navy permits women in 88 percent of its jobs. By
comparison, women are allowed in 66 percent of Army jobs and 68
percent of those in the Marines.  ‘Obsolete Barrier’  While the easing of limits on support positions in
battalions will have a “huge impact,” the remaining
restrictions on infantry, armor and special operations service
are disappointing, said Anu Bhagwati, a former Marine Corps
captain and executive director of the New York-based Service
Women’s Action Network.  The Pentagon will continue to “enforce this obsolete
barrier on women’s entry into combat arms fields,” Bhagwati
said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Women who have served in the  Middle East  alongside their
male peers have been denied the awards, badges and even
veterans’ benefits that their male counterparts have been
granted for doing the same job,” she said.  ‘Attaching’ Women  Congress in 2010 mandated a review of laws, policies and
regulations that restrict the service of women in the armed
forces to determine how best to provide “equitable opportunity
to compete and excel.”  Some of the military services are skirting existing
restrictions by “attaching” women to certain positions rather
than “assigning” them, according to Campbell.  “The reality of the wars has made it difficult to adhere
to” the restrictions, Campbell, who is a member of the defense
advisory committee, said today in an interview. “No. 1, where’s
the front line? And two, they need people.”  Army Chief of Staff General  Ray Odierno  has said he favors
more women serving in positions such as intelligence, signaling
and other specialties in combat battalions, where they’re not
allowed under current regulations.  “We need their talent,” Odierno said in September on
“This Week in Defense News,” a television program. “We have
incredibly talented females who should be in those positions.”  The services can take steps on their own, including last
year’s decision by the Navy to open officer positions on
submarines to women. Those positions had been closed because of
provisions on protecting privacy in the 1994 policy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  