-- Pentagon Budget Is Said to Fund First Northrop Global Hawk Drones for NATO
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-02-09T21:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/pentagon-budget-is-said-to-fund-first-northrop-global-hawk-drones-for-nato.html
The Pentagon proposes in its new
budget to spend $1.2 billion for the first three NATO-version
 Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  Global Hawk drones and three additional
U.S. Navy-version drones, according to an official.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization  announced  this month
it planned to buy five of the unmanned aircraft, known as the
Alliance Ground System, through 2017. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  told reporters Feb. 4 without elaboration that “we have
protected funding for AGS in our new budget.”  The budget also calls for purchasing the next three Navy
drones of the version known as the Broad Area Maritime
Surveillance System, said the official, who spoke on condition
of anonymity in advance of the budget’s submission to Congress
on Feb. 13. The Navy has two demonstration models, one of which
is flying Persian Gulf surveillance missions. It plans to
purchase as many as 68.  The budget request will help  Falls Church , Virginia-based
Northrop Grumman after the  Air Force  announced it’s truncating
purchases of its third-generation Block 30 drones. The aircraft
have proven too expensive to operate and maintain, Air Force
officials told reporters last month.  The Air Force has spent $3.4 billion developing and buying
18 Block 30 drones. It hasn’t disclosed whether it will put on
contract an additional three drones for which Congress approved
money, according to Air Force spokeswoman Jennifer Cassidy.  The Air Force program had called for buying 31 Block 30
Global Hawks. The Air Force hasn’t formally announced that it
will forgo purchase of the remaining 10.  Air Force Chief of Staff General Norton Schwartz told
reporters Jan. 27 that the service was reviewing whether to
retire the initial 18 new aircraft rather than continue flying
them.  Boeing Aircraft  Separately, the fiscal 2013 budget continues purchases of
two primary  Boeing Co. (BA)  aircraft -- the F/A-18E/F Super Hornet
and P-8 Poseidon maritime control aircraft, according to the
official.  The fiscal 2013 budget includes about $3.2 billion to
continue purchases of 26 additional fighter versions, down from
28 this year.  The budget also includes 12 “G”-model Boeing Growler
aircraft for jamming enemy electronics and air defense radar,
the same number as last year, the official said.  The Navy’s budget request for 13 Boeing P-8 maritime patrol
aircraft is two more than this year. The proposed budget
requests $3.3 billion.  For vessels, the Navy will continue to purchase two
additional Virginia-class submarines for $4.3 billion, before
reducing the number by one in fiscal 2014, the official said.
The deferred submarine will be purchased in 2018, the official
said.  Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII)  and  General Dynamics
Corp. (GD) ’s Electric Boat unit build the Virginia class.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  