-- PepsiCo to Cut 8,700 Jobs, Spend More on Marketing Brands
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-02-09T21:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/pepsico-to-cut-8-700-jobs-even-as-it-spends-600-million-more-on-marketing.html
  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  plans to cut 8,700 jobs
and boost marketing spending for its brands by as much as $600
million as Chief Executive Officer  Indra Nooyi  works to speed up
profit growth at the world’s largest snack-food maker.  The job cuts, which represent about 3 percent of PepsiCo’s
global workforce, and other measures may save about $1.5 billion
by 2014, the Purchase, New York-based company said today in a
statement.  Nooyi is working to boost U.S. beverage sales and regain
market share from  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s largest soft-drink
maker. Profit this year will decline about 5 percent on a
constant-currency basis and then increase at a high single-digit
percentage rate starting in 2013, PepsiCo said.  The “cost savings projections are encouraging, although
2012 will be a negative EPS growth year, which isn’t what
investors like to hear typically,”  Ali Dibadj , an analyst at
Sanford Bernstein & Co. in New York, said today in an e-mail.  PepsiCo fell 3.7 percent to $64.27 at the close in New
York. The shares rose 1.6 percent last year, while Coca-Cola
gained 6.4 percent.  Fourth-quarter net income advanced to $1.42 billion, or 89
cents a share, from $1.37 billion, or 85 cents, a year earlier,
PepsiCo said in a separate statement. Excluding some items,
profit was $1.15 a share, beating the $1.12 average of analysts’ 
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales climbed 11 percent to $20.2 billion. Analysts’
average estimate was $20 billion.  Marketing Spending  Most of the increased marketing will go to 12 key brands,
including Pepsi trademarked soft drinks, Lay’s, Mountain Dew,
Gatorade and Tropicana, Nooyi told investors at a meeting in  New
York  today. A new global advertising campaign for the company’s
flagship Pepsi-Cola will start this spring, Nooyi said.  An additional $100 million will be spent on display racks
and delivery routes, the company said. PepsiCo said benefits
from the higher marketing outlays increasingly will be seen in
the second half of 2012.  “Running a large company is like doing a car race,”
Nooyi, 56, said today in an interview on Bloomberg Television.
“Occasionally, you have to stop and refuel yourself in the pit
stop, and that is what we’re doing in 2012.”  Massimo d’Amore will step down from his job leading the
global beverages unit on Feb. 29 and retire from the company
about a year later, PepsiCo said today in a filing. D’Amore was
key in rebranding Pepsi-Cola, Tropicana and Gatorade in recent
years. He also was involved in a remake of Tropicana’s packaging
in 2009 that later was reversed after customers complained.  Not Splitting  PepsiCo also said it is committed to remaining an
integrated food-and-beverage company. Analysts including Dibadj
had suggest PepsiCo’s food and drinks business may be worth more
separate than together.  The company said it will work to boost  shareholder value 
with a stock-buyback program of at least $3 billion this year
and a 4 percent increase in its  dividend  starting with the June
payment.  PepsiCo’s commodity costs will rise 7 percent this year,
with much of the gain coming in the current quarter, Chief
Financial Officer Hugh Johnston told investors at the meeting.
Commodity cost inflation will slow as the year progresses, he
said.  Commodities that are publicly traded are estimated to rise
16 percent while non-traded materials will gain about 4 percent,
Johnston said. The cost to convert commodities to ingredients
will fall 5 percent, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  