-- PepsiCo Unions Seek NLRB Help to Combat Company’s $50 Tax on Fat, Smoking
-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 2012-02-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/pepsico-unions-seek-nlrb-help-to-fight-50-tax-on-fat-smoking.html
Teamster union members at  PepsiCo (PEP) 
Inc. in upstate New York are seeking National Labor Relations
Board help to fight the company’s health-care policy that
charges employees $50 a month when they smoke or have medical
issues that may trigger weight gain.  Three International Brotherhood of Teamsters locals,
representing about 300 drivers, sales agents and warehouse
workers in Binghamton, Latham and Syracuse, complained to the
labor board in October. PepsiCo is hindering the union’s effort
to shop for a health plan without a “sin tax,” said Ozzie
Martucci, secretary-treasurer of Teamsters Local 669.  “We’re against that type of tax, frankly,” Martucci said
yesterday in a phone interview. “It feels wrong to tax workers
if they are overweight or happen to have diabetes or smoke, and
we wanted to look elsewhere for different insurance.”  PepsiCo (PEP)  workers can avoid the fee if they join programs to
stop smoking or lose weight, said Dave DeCecco, a company
spokesman. “These programs enable our associates and their
families to live a healthier lifestyle,” he said.  The fee is applied to smokers, as well as to workers who
have diabetes, hypertension, high blood pressure or asthma,
conditions that often lead to being overweight, he said.  U.S. companies adding financial incentives and penalties to
control workers’ health-care management rose 50 percent from
2009 to 2011, according to a survey of 355 employers by Towers
Watson and the National Business Group on Health. The use of
penalties may double this year, with 38 percent of respondents
saying they plan to punish people who miss targets linked to
cholesterol levels or body-mass index, the study showed.  Data Dispute  The  New York  Teamsters locals turned to the NLRB, which
mediates disputes between employers and workers, after the
company refused to turn over gender and age demographics the
unions needed to shop for an alternative health plan, violating
the labor agreement, Martucci said. The NLRB is reviewing the
case.  “We have always been willing to provide the unions with as
much information as possible,” DeCecco said. “We will
collaborate with the NLRB to determine the best way forward,
balancing the unions’ desire for information with our need to
protect the privacy of our employees.”  The NLRB regional office in Buffalo, where the complaint
was filed, told PepsiCo it would issue a complaint unless they
settled the matter -- a step that is “standard practice” in
such cases,  Nancy Cleeland , the board’s Washington spokeswoman,
said.  “Unless there is a settlement, the NLRB will issue a
complaint saying it unlawfully withheld the information,” she
said. The NLRB is not weighing in on the sin tax.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  