-- PepsiCo, Tata Global Beverages to Sell Health Drink in India
-- B y   G a n e s h   N a g a r a j a n   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-02-09T10:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/pepsico-tata-global-beverages-to-sell-health-drink-in-india.html
Tata Global Beverages Ltd. (TGBL) , which
sells Tetley Tea and Eight O’Clock coffee, plans to market a
nutrient beverage in India with  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ’s local unit to
profit from rising sales of ready drinks in the country.  NourishCo Beverages Ltd., a joint venture between the two
beverage makers, will start selling Tata Water Plus nutrient
water in the southern Indian state of  Tamil Nadu , it said in a
statement in Chennai today. Tata Global shares rose as much as
7.4 percent in Mumbai trading.  “There is a growing trend towards health and wellness in
the beverages category,” said Ashok Namboodiri, chief of sales
and marketing at NourishCo Beverages Ltd. “We believe there is
immense potential, which will evolve over a period of time.”  Tata Global’s sales may grow 7 percent to 8 percent in the
year ending March 31 2012, Vice Chairman R. K. Krishna Kumar
said today. This compares with a 3.5 percent increase to 59.8
billion rupees ($1.2 billion) a year earlier.  The company won’t see real impact from the joint venture
until 2014, said Mehul Desai, a Mumbai-based analyst at K.R.
Choksey Shares and Securities Pvt.  “Even in the urban markets, health products haven’t
penetrated because the knowledge of the product is not there,”
he said. “NourishCo would take time to gain penetration.”  The new product will help both companies expand in  India ’s
growing beverage market, which has expanded with rising incomes.
The country’s soft-drink market is expected to double to 12.9
billion liters in 2015 from 6.2 billion liters in 2010,
Euromonitor International predicts.  PepsiCo India and Tata Global Beverages, a unit of Indian
conglomerate  Tata Group , announced the joint venture to develop
non-carbonated, health beverages in 2010. NourishCo currently
sells GlucoPlus, a glucose-based energy drink and Himalayan
 mineral water  in India.  Tata Global Beverages  shares  gained 4.5 percent to 123.05
rupees in Mumbai at the 3:30 p.m. close local time, the highest
level since Nov. 15, 2010. The benchmark  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  rose
0.7 percent.  Tata Global Beverages on Jan. 30 signed a venture accord
with Starbucks Corp. to open Starbucks coffee shops in India.
The company said it plans to reduce dependence on tea and coffee
based products after rising commodity costs decreased its
profits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ganesh Nagarajan in Chennai at 
 gnagarajan1@bloomberg.net ;
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  