-- Peru Seen Keeping 4.25% Rate as Economy Rebounds on Stimulus
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-02-09T15:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/peru-likely-to-keep-4-25-rate-as-economy-rebounds-on-stimulus.html
Peruvian policy makers will probably
keep borrowing costs unchanged for a ninth month today as they
weigh the success of fiscal stimulus in offsetting the effect of
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  The central bank will maintain the  overnight rate  at 4.25
percent, according to all 16 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.
The seven-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde,
will announce its decision at about 6 p.m. local time.  Growth in South America’s sixth-largest economy accelerated
for the first time in four months in December as the government
rolled out stimulus spending to counter waning global demand for
its metal and manufacturing exports. Though inflation eased from
a two year-high of 4.74 percent last month, the central bank
won’t lower rates unless Europe’s debt turmoil intensifies, said
 Enrique Alvarez , the head of Latin America fixed-income research
at IdeaGlobal.  “They’re not going to cut rates with inflation so far
outside the target’s upper bounds,” Alvarez said in a phone
interview from  New York , referring to the country’s inflation
target of 1 percent to 3 percent. “A crash in Europe would have
to develop before they’d cut.”  Peru  unveiled plans in November to spend as much as $3.5
billion to shore up domestic demand on concern recession in
Europe could spread to  China  and the U.S., the Andean nation’s
top trading partners.  Public Works, Mining  The economy expanded faster than expected in December as
the government pumped up investment in public works, Finance
Minister Miguel Castilla said Feb. 7.  Castilla said the government may revise its forecast for
2011 economic growth, which will be reported Feb. 28, to about 7
percent from 6.8 percent.  Public investment jumped 39 percent to a record 500 million
soles ($186 million) last month from a year earlier, according
to the  Finance Ministry . The government is targeting a 30
percent increase this year to compensate for slowing spending by
companies.  The Peruvian sol has strengthened 0.3 percent since the end
of December to 2.6880 per  U.S. dollar  at 10:27 a.m. in Lima,
according to Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 has fallen 12 basis points, or
0.12 percentage point, this year to 5.63 percent, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Business Confidence  Though the global outlook has improved since the start of
the year, anti-mining protests in Peru may deter investment and
damp domestic demand, said Felipe Hernandez, an analyst at RBS
Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Newmont Mining Corp (NEM)  suspended its $4.8 billion Minas Conga
gold project in November after two weeks of protests that
sometimes became violent. Opponents to what would be the
country’s biggest-ever investment project resumed street
protests Feb. 1.  Government officials have held talks with communities in
three other mining regions in the past month to stem spreading
unrest.  Though business sentiment has improved after President
Ollanta Humala revamped his Cabinet in December to better deal
with the protests, investor confidence won’t return to levels
seen prior to his election in June so long as the Conga project
remains on hold, said Hernandez.  Business confidence rose in January for the first time in
three months, according to a central bank  survey  published Feb.
3.  ‘Political Noise’  A separate survey by the bank showed economists forecast
that the economy will expand 5 percent this year, compared with
5.3 percent in the previous month’s survey. Inflation
expectations for 2012 declined to 2.9 percent from 3 percent.  Consumer prices fell the most in 15 months in January as
the cost of food and bus fares eased.  Annual inflation slowed to 4.23 percent from December, and
will continue to decelerate this year, creating leeway for the
central bank to ease its monetary policy stance to shore up
demand, said  Roberto Flores , the head of research at Inteligo
SAB, a Lima-based brokerage.  “Deflation could mean the economy is being held back by
political noise,” said Pedro Olaechea, president of the
National Society of Industries, in a Feb. 7 interview in  Lima .
“We’re more worried by the political noise surrounding
investment than we are by a default in  Greece .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  