-- Peru Keeps 4.25% Rate for Ninth Meeting on Fiscal Stimulus
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-02-09T23:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/peru-keeps-4-25-rate-as-economy-rebounds-on-fiscal-stimulus.html
Peruvian policy makers kept borrowing
costs unchanged for a ninth month today as they weigh the
success of fiscal stimulus in offsetting the effect of  Europe ’s
debt crisis.  The seven-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde, held the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent, matching the
forecasts of all 16 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Today’s
decision means policy makers have kept the rate unchanged for
nine straight meetings, the longest such streak since 2007.  “This decision takes into account the slower growth being
recorded by some spending components, international financial
risks and the fact that quickening inflation has mainly
reflected temporary supply factors,” policy makers said in
their statement posted on the central bank’s website.  Growth in  South America ’s sixth-largest economy accelerated
for the first time in four months in December as the government
rolled out stimulus spending to counter waning global demand for
its metal and manufacturing exports. Though inflation eased from
a two year-high of 4.74 percent last month, the central bank
won’t lower rates unless Europe’s debt turmoil intensifies, said
 Enrique Alvarez , the head of Latin America fixed-income research
at IdeaGlobal.  “The policy rate is going to be subject to a European
crash before it moves, due to the upside of inflation,” Alvarez
said in a phone interview from  New York . “If there’s a
disorderly default, they’ll go for a rate cut.”  Policy makers today also said that future rate decisions
“will be subject to new information and its determinants.”
They forecast that inflation will slow to 2 percent by year-end.  Public Works, Mining  Peru  unveiled plans in November to spend as much as $3.5
billion to shore up domestic demand on concern recession in
Europe could spread to  China  and the U.S., the Andean nation’s
top trading partners.  The economy expanded faster than expected in December as
the government pumped up investment in public works, Finance
Minister Miguel Castilla said Feb. 7.  Castilla said the government may revise its forecast for
2011 economic growth, which will be reported Feb. 28, to about 7
percent from 6.8 percent.  Public investment jumped 39 percent to a record 500 million
soles ($186 million) last month from a year earlier, according
to the  Finance Ministry . The government is targeting a 30
percent increase this year to compensate for slowing spending by
companies.  Business Confidence  Though the global outlook has improved since the start of
the year, anti-mining protests in Peru may deter investment and
damp domestic demand, said Felipe Hernandez, an analyst at RBS
Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Newmont Mining Corp (NEM)  suspended its $4.8 billion Minas Conga
gold project in November after two weeks of protests that
sometimes became violent. Opponents to what would be the
country’s biggest-ever investment project resumed street
protests Feb. 1.  Government officials have held talks with communities in
three other mining regions in the past month to stem spreading
unrest.  The government will ask companies including Hochschild
Mining Plc and Hudbay Minerals Inc. to suspend mining operations
in the southern Andes during a 30-day environmental review after
villagers said mines are polluting the area, Cabinet Chief Oscar Valdes’s office said today.  ‘Political Noise’  Though business sentiment has improved after President
Ollanta Humala revamped his Cabinet in December to better deal
with the protests, investor confidence won’t return to levels
seen prior to his election in June so long as the Conga project
remains on hold, said Hernandez.  Business confidence rose in January for the first time in
three months, according to a central bank  survey  published Feb.
3.  A separate survey by the bank showed economists forecast
that the economy will expand 5 percent this year, compared with
5.3 percent in the previous month’s survey. Inflation
expectations for 2012 declined to 2.9 percent from 3 percent.  Consumer prices fell the most in 15 months in January as
the cost of food and bus fares eased.  Annual inflation slowed to 4.23 percent from December, and
will continue to decelerate this year, creating leeway for the
central bank to ease its monetary policy stance to shore up
demand, said  Roberto Flores , the head of research at Inteligo
SAB, a Lima-based brokerage.  The Peruvian sol has strengthened 0.4 percent since the end
of December to 2.6865 per  U.S. dollar  today, according to
Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 has fallen 12 basis points, or
0.12 percentage point, this year to 5.63 percent, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  “Deflation could mean the economy is being held back by
political noise,” said Pedro Olaechea, president of the
National Society of Industries, in a Feb. 7 interview in Lima.
“We’re more worried by the political noise surrounding
investment than we are by a default in  Greece .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  