-- Promote Women or Face Board Quotas, Cameron Tells Companies
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-02-09T15:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/promote-women-or-face-board-quotas-cameron-tells-companies.html
Companies may face quotas unless they
promote more women to board level, U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said, arguing that businesses are “failing” the
economy by not having enough females in senior positions.  Appointing women as directors and encouraging them as
entrepreneurs are “about quality, not just equality,” Cameron
said at a meeting of the Northern Future Forum in Stockholm
today.  “The case is overwhelming that companies are run better if
we have men and women alongside each other,” Cameron said in a
round-table discussion. “If we can’t get there in other ways I
think we have to have quotas.”  The U.K. is working to implement the recommendations of a
February 2011  report  by  Mervyn Davies  on increasing the number
of women on boards, according to a submission to the meeting. As
a result, women now make up 15 percent of directors of companies
in the benchmark  FTSE 100 Index , up from 12.5 percent last year,
and there are now 10 all-male boards in the FTSE, down from 21
last year.  Starting in October, as a result of a new provision in the
U.K. corporate-governance code, companies will have to report on
their policy for boardroom diversity and how they are making
progress in delivering it.  ‘Unlock the Potential’  “Women now make up nearly half the workforce across  Europe 
and the majority of university degrees, but they are still not
sufficiently represented at the senior boardroom level,”
Cameron said in a statement before the meeting. “The evidence
is that there is a positive link between women in leadership and
business performance, so if we fail to unlock the potential of
women in the labor market, we’re not only failing those
individuals, we’re failing our whole economy.”  Cameron later rowed back on his comments about quotas,
saying that what is needed is “positive action stopping short
of positive discrimination in law through quotas.”  If women entrepreneurs in the U.K. were as successful as
those in the U.S., there would be an extra 600,000 women-owned
businesses contributing 42 billion pounds ($66 billion) to the
economy, according to the U.K.’s submission, which was published
on the forum’s  website .  Cameron also said he wants to explore a Swedish program
that gives tax breaks to homeowners who employ people to provide
household services, such as cleaning and gardening.  The forum was established by Cameron last year to bring
together the prime ministers of Nordic and Baltic countries
along with the U.K.  This year’s conference, hosted by Swedish Prime Minister
 Fredrik Reinfeldt , focused on women in business and older people
remaining in the workforce.  “A male atmosphere creates more risk and a greater risk of
corruption,” Reinfeldt said in the discussion. “To say the
least, more women in the financial sector would be very good in
bringing down the risk level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  Stockholm  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  