-- Thailand Stocks: Rayong, Siam Cement, Thaicom, Thai Airways
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-02-09T09:51:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/ptt-global-total-access-thaicom-thailand-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies had
unusual moves in Thailand  trading . Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the close in Bangkok.  The  SET Index (SET)  rose for a third day, climbing 0.1 percent to
1,117.17, the highest level since Aug. 4.  Grande Asset Hotels & Property Pcl  (GRAND TB), a developer,
gained 3.9 percent to 1.32 baht, the most since Jan. 31. The
company plans to develop two hotels and a condominium project,
the Bangkok Post reported, citing Chief Executive Officer
Noppadol Mingchinda. Noppadol wasn’t available for comment when
called at his office today.  Rayong Purifier Pcl (RPC)  , a fuel producer, dropped 3.6
percent to 1.87 baht, extending yesterday’s 4 percent slide and
the lowest close since Oct. 4. The company shut down a plant
after PTT Pcl stopped supplying raw materials, it said in a
regulatory filing yesterday.  Siam Cement Pcl (SCC)   climbed 1.1 percent to 361 baht,
the highest since Aug. 5. Siam Cement signed an agreement with
 Vietnam  Oil & Gas Group and a unit of Qatar Petroleum
International to develop a $4.5 billion petrochemical complex in
southern Vietnam, the Thai company said in a regulatory filing.  Thaicom Pcl (THCOM)  , a satellite operator, jumped 8.1
percent to 13.3 baht, the highest close since May 2006. The
company plans to launch two new orbiters over the next three
years, the Bangkok Post reported, citing Chief Executive Officer
Suphajee Suthumpun. Suphajee wasn’t available for comment when
called at her office.  Thai Airways International Pcl (THAI)  , the country’s
largest carrier, advanced 1.4 percent to 25.25 baht, the highest
level since Sept. 16. The airline plans to lease eight Boeing
Co. 787 Dreamliners from International Lease Finance Co., Boeing
said in a statement distributed to the media in Bangkok today.
The companies didn’t say when the planes will be delivered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  