-- Publicis 2011 Sales Jump Beats Estimates on Web, Latin American Business
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-02-09T09:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/publicis-2011-sales-beats-estimates-on-web-latin-america.html
Publicis Groupe SA (PUB)  reported 2011
revenue growth that beat analyst estimates as  France ’s largest
advertising agency sold more digital ads and expanded into
faster-growing markets outside Europe such as  Latin America .  Sales rose 7.3 percent to 5.82 billion euros ($7.72
billion) in 2011, the Paris-based company said in a statement
today. That beat the 5.78 billion-euro forecast by analysts in a
 Bloomberg survey . Earnings rose to 2.64 euros a share from 2.35
euros a year earlier.  Publicis has bought smaller companies in digital and
emerging markets as its European business is hampered by the
sovereign debt crisis. Publicis agreed to buy at least 21
companies last year, according to Bloomberg data. The expansion
added employees in markets such as Brazil and  China  with booming
economies as well as companies that specialize in online
marketing.  “In a context of sovereign debt crisis and economic
slowdown, Publicis has not only outperformed the market, more
remarkably it has improved on its own outstanding performance of
2010,” Chief Executive Officer  Maurice Levy  said. “We should
be able to continue to achieve strong, sustainable and
profitable growth.”  Publicis  shares fell  0.2 percent to 39.72 euros at
10:37 a.m. in Paris trading. The stock rose 12 percent this year
before today.  Regional Growth  Revenue in  North America , where Publicis gets the largest
portion of its sales, grew 4.4 percent to 2.72 billion euros.
The fastest growing markets were Latin America, which gained 32
percent last year, and  Asia , up 12 percent. Excluding
acquisitions, total revenue rose 5.7 percent last year.  Levy has said some  customers  are scaling back plans for
2012 spending amid recession fears. Still, the industry is
expecting a boost from the summer Olympics, the U.S.
presidential elections and the European soccer championships
this year.  “We’ve seen our clients cutting last quarter, less than
what happened in 2008, and we see some cautious investments in
the beginning of this year,” Levy said in an interview with
Bloomberg TV. Still, Levy said he expected Publicis to maintain
a 16 percent operating margin -- the percentage of sales left
over after personnel expenses, depreciation, amortization and
other costs. “It won’t be very easy. It will require some
efforts from our teams, but I believe we will still be the best
performer in 2012,” he said.  Acquisitions  European sales fell 2.5 percent in the fourth quarter from a
year earlier as customers in western and southern  Europe  cut
spending, Publicis said. The company froze hiring and focused on
cutting personnel expenses to protect margins during the
downturn.  Still, Publicis said it expects to grow faster than the
market in 2012 as it works to double its business in China and
adds to operations in other high-growth regions and businesses.
The French company said it will continue to make “targeted
acquisitions.”  While the company is shying away from large acquisitions,
it is in negotiations with a few companies in China and  India 
that specialize in digital marketing, Levy said.  In December, ZenithOptimedia, a Publicis-owned company that
publishes research on advertising, lowered its forecast for the
industry’s performance this year to 3.5 percent growth from an
initial prediction of 4.1 percent.  Last month, the company lost its account with General
Motors Co. after the world’s top-selling carmaker entrusted its
$3 billion in annual advertising spending to smaller competitor
Aegis Group Plc. The account represented about 0.5 percent of
Publicis’s annual revenue, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  