-- Putin Said to Plan Dissolving Russian Ruling Party After Presidential Vote
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-02-10T14:59:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/putin-said-to-plan-dissolving-russian-ruling-party-after-presidential-vote.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  may
dissolve his ruling party and create a new power base after next
month’s presidential vote, according to two people familiar with
the plans.  United Russia , which Putin set up in 2001, lost its two-
thirds parliamentary majority in December. The party would
probably have a different name, new logo and new leadership,
said the people, who are involved in government discussions
about the plan and asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public. United  Russia  spokeswoman Natalia
Virtuozova said she was unaware of plans to rebrand the party.  The party’s failure in December parliamentary elections, in
which it lost 77 seats, leaving it with 238 seats in the 450-
member  legislature , was a result of “deep-rooted problems,”
Putin said at a meeting with supporters Feb. 7. That was the
first time the party’s support declined from one nationwide vote
to the next.  “It represented people’s reaction to the party’s inability
to respond to injustice at a grassroots level,” Putin said.  Street Protests  The plans show maneuvering by Putin after tens of thousands
of people took to the streets in protests against alleged fraud
in the December legislative polls. The government has since
pledged to allow more political parties to register, reserve
half of the seats in parliament for independent lawmakers and
restore direct elections for regional governors.  Putin’s spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , said by phone that he had
“never heard of” a plan to rebrand  United Russia .  A senior United Russia official, Yury Shuvalov, said the
party must respond to the social mood in the country and become
more competitive.  “I wouldn’t predict what changes exactly will happen,”
Shuvalov said by phone today. “There are various options that
we are discussing.”  Putin, 59, who refused opposition demands to hold a repeat
parliamentary poll, may agree to early elections by 2014 to
defuse criticism, Mikhail Dmitriev, head of the Moscow-based
Center for Strategic Research, which advises the government,
said after he met with the prime minister on Feb. 6. The next
election is scheduled for 2016.  Early Elections  Early elections are not something Putin wants but he is
ready for it if the situation demands, Dmitriev said, adding
that he sees early elections as very likely. Putin may also
replace his protege, President  Dmitry Medvedev , as prime
minister after a year, he said.  Boris Titov, chairman of the business lobby group and a
member of Putin’s People’s front, called for early parliamentary
elections in 2013. In a document called Entrepreneurs’ Charter
published in Kommersant newspaper today, Titov and other
businessmen from his group said that these early elections
should be held together with governors elections in Moscow and
St. Petersburg, two cities which have largely middle class
population and where the largest protests took place.  “Medvedev has his own political program, and if he becomes
premier, there is a chance that again one part of the elite will
have one center and the other part will have another center,”
said  Alexander Shokhin , president of the Russian Union of
Industrialists, a  lobby group  for big business, and a senior
member of Putin’s popular front coalition.  Swapping Jobs  The outgoing president can focus on continuing political
overhaul in a different role, Shokhin said. “The age of
reshuffles and tandems is over,” he said.  The premier last year created a coalition of supporters
under his personal leadership as backing for the ruling party
waned. Putin opened United Russia’s Duma faction to members of
his All-Russia People’s Front and promised this week that the
country’s next government will be “substantially renewed.”  Putin, who was president between 2000 and 2008, announced
in September that he would seek to return to the Kremlin,
swapping jobs with Medvedev after four years as prime minister.  Medvedev, 46, a former lawyer from Putin’s hometown of  St.
Petersburg  who had pledged to fight corruption and improve the
rule of law, took over in 2008 after Putin served the maximum
two consecutive terms allowed by the constitution.  Two-Thirds Majority  Opposition parties say that United Russia inflated its
share of the vote from 30 percent to just under 50 percent in
the Dec. 4 election. The government says the election was fair.  In 2007, United Russia won more than 64 percent of the
vote, giving it a two-thirds majority in the Duma that allowed
it to change the constitution. Putin leads United Russia,
without being a member of the party.  Putin’s challengers in the March 4 presidential election
have pledged to hold a new parliamentary vote in December.  “If it turns out that the popularity of parties outside
Parliament is quite high, making the legislature
unrepresentative, then it makes sense to think of early
parliamentary polls,” said  Sergei Markov , a senior member of
United Russia.  The premier will win an outright presidential victory in
the first round, according to an opinion poll released today by
the All-Russian Center for the Study of  Public Opinion . He
polled at 53 percent, up from 52 percent in a survey last week,
according to the state-run organization, known as VTsIOM.  Voter Backing  Another report by the Public Opinion Foundation showed
Putin’s voter backing at 47 percent, up from 46 percent a week
earlier. Putin’s opponents say he can only achieve a first-round
win through fraud, which will provoke a greater wave of
protests, depriving him of legitimacy.  The Russian leader is weaker than ever before and may have
to plan an “exit strategy” because he may not last the whole
six-year presidential term, Dmitriev said.  “Under certain circumstances Putin is psychologically
inclined not to block the necessary reforms,” Dmitriev said.
“Although he feels uncomfortable about it, he has a personality
split. On the one hand he is afraid of the new environment, on
other hand he feels that the future depends on these people,”
he said, referring to the protesters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  