-- Putin Says Russia May Charge Levy for Russian State Asset Sales From 1990s
-- B y   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-02-09T16:43:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/putin-mulls-levy-for-russian-state-asset-sales-from-1990s-1-.html
Russia may charge businessmen who
acquired assets in “unfair” 1990s state sales a one-time levy,
said Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who’s campaigning to return
to the presidency in an election next month.  “We have to draw a line under this period, so that society
accepts the outcome, ending this problem of the 1990s,” Putin
said today at a meeting in Moscow of the Russian Union of
Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, a lobby group for big
business. He described the privatizations that took place
through auctions as “frankly speaking unfair.”  “It should either be a one-time payment or something
else,” Putin said. “We have to think about this together. I
think society as a whole and the business class have an interest
in this.”  Putin has refused to reverse the state asset-sales of the
1990s, which handed holdings in the oil, metals and other
industries to so-called oligarchs, or wealthy businessmen, who
built ties to the government after the fall of communism. Moscow
is the city with the greatest number of billionaires at 79,
compared with  New York ’s 58, according to Forbes magazine.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 30 stocks fell after the comments and
closed 0.8 percent lower at 1,542.79 in Moscow after trading
little changed earlier. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  also
turned lower and was down 0.2 percent at 1,059.05 at 7.35 p.m.  ‘Sensitive Issue’  “This a sensitive issue,”  Alexey Mordashov , the
billionaire owner of steelmaker  OAO Severstal (CHMF) , said after
Putin’s comments. “The desire and the need to turn the page is
understandable, while it’s unclear whom to tax exactly -- those
who privatized, who own now, or minorities.”  Billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , who’s standing for president
in the March 4 election, said last week that all the businessmen
who bought state assets in the 1990s should decide themselves
how much they want to compensate the state.  “I’ll sell everything, all my assets, when I become
president and donate almost all of the money to charity,” said
Prokhorov, whose fortune was estimated last year by Forbes at
$18 billion, making him  Russia ’s third-richest person.  After being elected to the presidency in 2000, Putin agreed
not to revisit the government’s asset sales from the previous
decade on condition the tycoons stay out of politics.  Knockdown Prices  Mikhail Khodorkovsky , once Russia’s richest man and owner
of the country’s biggest oil producer, was imprisoned for  tax
evasion  and fraud and his OAO  Yukos (YUKO)  company dismantled in a
campaign he alleges was motivated by his political activities.  Khodorkovsky’s Menatep Bank bought a 78 percent stake in
Yukos for $300 million in a so-called loans-for-shares auction
that was organized by Menatep in December 1995. The energy
producer’s market capitalization later rose to as high as $30
billion.  Some of the biggest Russian companies were auctioned to the
businessmen, who later became oligarchs, at knockdown prices
after the loans-for-shares plan, which was created to prop up
late President Boris Yeltsin’s government. Among other
transactions under the loans-for-shares, program, billionaire
Vladimir Potanin’s ZAO Interros Holding bought a 38 percent
stake in miner OAO  Norilsk Nickel. (GMKN)   Communist leader  Gennady Zyuganov , a rival of Putin in the
presidential race, has also pledged to impose a one-time tax to
recoup “profits brought by the wind” from assets sold in the
1990s. He also proposed jailing businessmen guilty of criminal
behavior during the privatization process, saying 50,000 crimes
and violations have been established.  Shifting Ground  “The newswires are currently dominated by President Putin
and his re-electioneering promises and initiatives,” Julian Rimmer, a trader of Russian shares at CF Global Trading in
 London , said by e-mail. “None looks particularly threatening
from an equity standpoint but the ground beneath oligarch feet
is shifting and places a nagging doubt in some investors’
minds.”  The Russian leader ordered state-run VTB Group on Feb. 2 to
draw up proposals to buy back shares from investors who lost
money in the bank’s 2007 initial public offering. Russia’s
second-largest bank said the measure will cost it as much as 18
billion rubles ($605 million).  Putin, 59, the clear favorite in polls, is seeking to
garner more than 50 percent of the vote to avoid a runoff
against the second-place finisher in his bid to return to the
presidency after four years as premier. He was elected president
in 2000 and 2004 and stepped down in 2008 in favor of his
protege,  Dmitry Medvedev , to comply with constitutional  term
limits .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anton Doroshev in Moscow at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  