-- MPX Delays $4 Billion Colombia Coal Project Amid Price Drop
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-02-09T21:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/mpx-expects-colombia-coal-output-in-2014-delaying-plan-1-.html
MPX Energia SA (MPXE3) , controlled by
Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , is delaying by more than a
year a $4 billion coal project in Colombia amid price declines.  MPX, based in Rio de Janeiro, may begin exporting from the
Canaverales mine in northern Colombia during 2014, with output
rising to 35 million tons from the complex within nine years,
Luis Caceres, projects manager at the company’s Colombian coal
unit, told reporters at an industry conference today in Bogota.
The company had earlier targeted first output later this year.  Coal demand may slow in  Europe  and  China , the world’s
largest energy consumer, weighing on prices and prompting a
delay in mine expansion plans, said  Andres Jimenez , head of
international sales at Interbolsa SA, Colombia’s largest
brokerage. Caceres said the later start date reflects changes to
a prior plan that would have begun production with 5 million
tons of coal and had maximum output of 20 million tons.  “Batista is having his difficulties with a choppy
market,” Jimenez said. “Commodities may have a correction and
that includes coal.”  Coal futures in northwestern Europe have dropped 10 percent
in six months.  MPX’s Chief Executive Officer Eduardo Karrer said Aug. 19
that output was previously set to start in the fourth quarter of
2012 and reach 35 million tons by 2020.  ‘Aggressive Ramp-Up’  The project is now estimated to cost about $4 billion and
will produce about 1 million tons of coal in its first year of
output, according to Caceres.  “In 2014, we would like to be in conditions to start an
aggressive ramp-up,” he said.  MPX will use the coal to supply its own energy plants in
 Brazil  and Chile, later shipping the excess to export markets
like China and India, he said.  MPX is planning to spin off the coal assets and list them
as a separate company called CCX, Batista, Brazil’s richest man,
said Jan. 11.  The company is addressing points raised by Colombian
regulators about environmental permitting at Canaverales,
Caceres said. The mine would be the first to begin production at
the complex in the Colombian province of La Guajira, which also
will include underground mining and a railway and port, Caceres
said.  MPX slid 0.2 percent to close at 48.6 reais in  Sao Paulo ,
snapping two days of gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net 
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio De Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Carlos Caminada at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net  