-- Q-Cells Seeks Bond Deferral as Single Holder Demands Repayment
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-02-09T16:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/q-cells-seeks-bond-deferral-as-single-holder-demands-repayment.html
Q-Cells SE (QCE)  said a request by a
bondholder for repayment at the end of the month won’t hamper
its restructuring plans as the German solar company seeks more
time to pay back 200 million euro ($266 million) of bonds.  The company has scheduled a meeting of bondholders in
Frankfurt on Feb. 27 to propose deferring the maturity of the
2012 bond to April 30 from February 28, Ina von Spies, a
spokeswoman for Q-Cells, said by phone today.  The Dreier Riedel Rechtsanwaelte law firm said in an e-
mailed statement that Q-Cells and a bondholder it’s representing
failed to reach an agreement.  The bondholder’s request “won’t hinder the financial
restructuring process,” von Spies said.  Germany ’s solar manufacturers are under pressure from
Chinese rivals that have boosted capacity even as international
prices slumped. Berlin-based module maker Solon SE and Solar
Millennium AG, with headquarters in Erlangen, filed for
insolvency in December.  Q-Cells said on Feb. 1 it reached an agreement “in
principle” with the main holders of its 2012, 2014 and 2015
convertible bonds to complete a debt restructuring in one step
after last month seeking to pursue a two-step transaction. The
bondholders, mainly institutional investors, will be able to
swap their debt for 95 percent of equity. Holders of the 2012
note will also get a cash payment of 20 million euros.  “Q-Cells is trying to change the bond conditions through
the backdoor,” Peter Dreier, of Dreier Riedel Rechtsanwaelte,
said by phone. “In our view, they’re not going to succeed and
we demand that Q-Cells will have to pay back the bond in full at
the end of this month.”  Dreier is representing several smaller bondholders and has
filed the suit representing a single holder of bonds, he said. A
regional court on Jan. 23 stopped the bond being deferred after
a suit filed by Dreier.  Q-Cells has settled with those bondholders who filed their
motions within the deadline “and therefore the decision by the
 Frankfurt  court is invalid,” von Spies said. The company is in
talks to reach agreements with more bondholders, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  