-- Qatar’s RasGas to Add 2 Million Tons of LNG to Korea a Year
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-02-09T15:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/qatar-s-rasgas-to-ship-2-million-tons-of-lng-to-korea-a-year-1-.html
Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Co.,
one of two Qatari producers of the fuel, will boost LNG supplies
to  Korea Gas Corp. (036460)  by 2 million metric tons a year under a 20-
year agreement.  Deliveries under the agreement are set to begin in 2013,
the Qatari company known as RasGas said in a statement
distributed at the signing ceremony today in Doha, the capital
of the Persian Gulf state. The volumes will increase total LNG
dedicated to Kogas, as the Asian company is known, under long-
term agreements to 9 million tons, it said.  Qatar, the world’s largest exporter of LNG, has diverted
LNG supplies to  Asia  that were originally intended for  North
America , where rising supplies of gas from shale rock is
limiting the need for imports, Qatar’s Energy Minister Mohammed
Saleh Al Sada said last March. RasGas signed an agreement to
send 1.5 million tons of LNG to  Taiwan ’s CPC Corp in December.  Under today’s agreement, RasGas will also ship additional
“incremental” volumes of LNG to Kogas from 2012 to 2016.  “The price is quite good,” Ibrahim Ibrahim, economic
adviser to the country’s emir, said at the signing, where the
sale price wasn’t disclosed. “It’s way different from the
prices in other markets because the market in the  Far East , as
you know, the gap is huge between the Far East and  Europe  and,
of course, if you put in the States, it’s even bigger.”  Qatar tries to sell its LNG at a price that is equal to oil
on an energy equivalent basis, Ibrahim said.  “Oil parity, we said, is something we want to achieve,”
he said. “We have achieved it once or twice but we are working
for it.”  RasGas signed its first long-term agreement with Kogas in
1995, supplying 4.9 million tons a year, according to the
statement. A second agreement in 2007 increased volumes to  South
Korea  by 2.1 million tons a year.  Qatar has production capacity of 77 million tons annually.
LNG is gas chilled until it reaches liquid form so that it can
be transported by ship over distances not covered by pipeline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Tuttle in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  