-- Ranchers Dismiss CME Protection Fund as Chickenfeed to Cattlemen
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-02-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/ranchers-dismiss-cme-protection-fund-as-chickenfeed-to-cattlemen.html
Pete Bonds, a 59-year-old  Texas 
rancher, doffed his cowboy hat and stepped to the microphone. He
wanted to tell an executive from  CME Group Inc. (CME) , owner of the
world’s largest futures market, what he thought of the $100
million fund set up to help protect ranchers and farmers from a
collapse like that of commodities broker MF Global Holdings Ltd.  To Bonds and other members of the  National Cattlemen’s Beef
Association  gathered in Nashville on Feb. 3, the protection fund
that CME Chief Operating Officer Bryan Durkin was there
promoting amounted to little more than a pile of chickenfeed.  All it takes is some “third-grade math,” Bonds told
Durkin, to understand that given its limit of $25,000 per
individual account, the fund would cover only farmers with about
1,200 feeder cattle -- a fraction of a typical rancher’s herd.
More than half the cattle sold in 2010 came from feedlots with a
capacity of at least 24,000 cattle, according to the U.S.
Agriculture Department. Farmer cooperatives will be eligible for
as much as $100,000 in the event of a brokerage failure,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Feb. 13 issue.  Many of the ranchers meeting in Nashville are among those
still owed about $100 million after $1.2 billion of customer
funds went missing when MF Global failed Oct. 31. The tension in
the ballroom of the Gaylord Opryland Resort & Convention Center
was a reminder that futures exchanges, first founded in  Chicago 
before the Civil War, were meant to protect food producers from
the vagaries of the market by allowing them to hedge against
volatile prices -- not just to give speculators a chance to
profit.  ‘Third-World Country’  Though agricultural products make up only 11 percent of
CME’s revenue, they’re still at the core of its business. The MF
Global fiasco has shaken that core.  “I used to say this wasn’t some third-world country we
were dealing with,” said Bonds, who has a herd of several
thousand cattle in Saginaw, Texas. “But with this kind of
screw-up, it seems like it might be.”  Exchange rules require brokerages to separate customer
deposits from the firms’ own money. Should a brokerage become
insolvent due to its own trading losses, customer accounts are
supposed to remain untouched. That didn’t happen when MF Global
failed, and now CME is trying to regain the trust of its oldest
clients. Durkin is the highest-ranking exchange official to
speak at the cattlemen’s convention in at least a decade.  “For about 150 years, farmers, ranchers, agribusiness,
never worried about the safety of their money when hedging on
futures exchanges,” he told the  cattlemen . “This has been an
industrywide blow, to say the least, to the heart of the
 commodities markets , to agricultural producers, processors and
distributers alike.”  Insurance Policy  To pay for the new fund, which is expected to go into
effect March 1, CME will take out an insurance policy to provide
the $100 million in extra protection, said Chris Grams, a CME
spokesman. The exchange in November established a $550 million
guarantee to speed the release of MF Global customer funds.
“Additional steps will be necessary,” Durkin said, explaining
that the exchange is working with the futures industry to
prevent another MF Global situation.  The crisis of confidence in CME comes as  Standard & Poor’s 
lowered its long-term  credit rating , partly out of concern the
protection fund would “expand the firm’s long-standing mandate
of guaranteeing trades.” It also hits as ranchers increasingly
need to hedge. Last year saw some record-high commodity prices
amid rising volatility. The price of corn, the main feed
ingredient, soared to its highest annual average ever in 2011.
Live-cattle futures set records seven times last month.  Managing Risk  To manage their risk, ranchers trade corn and cattle
futures. A rancher who thinks corn will be more expensive in a
few months can use futures to lock in today’s price. If he
thinks cattle prices have peaked, he can sell futures for
livestock he plans to market later on.  The protection fund is a “great first step,” said Colin Woodall, a vice-president for government affairs for the NCBA.
“Before people throw rocks at it, I think they have to realize
that CME is not required to do this.”  For all their frustration, producers wary about the safety
of their money have nowhere else to go if they want to use
futures. CME is the “only game in town,” said Bill Rhea, 69, a
feed-yard owner from Arlington,  Nebraska , who used MF Global as
his futures broker and said he’s out about $100,000. As for
getting his money back, Rhea said: “I don’t think I’m going to
hold my breath.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts in Chicago at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net . 