-- Rand Slips to Week-Low on Slowing Manufacturing Growth, Zuma State Address
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-02-09T14:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/rand-falls-to-week-low-on-manufacturing-growth-zuma-address.html
The rand slipped to its lowest in a
week against the dollar after manufacturing output in  Africa ’s
biggest economy slowed and before President  Jacob Zuma ’s state-
of-the-nation speech to lawmakers in Cape Town.  South Africa’s currency retreated as much as 1.4 percent to
7.6542 per dollar, the weakest level since Feb. 2. It pared
declines after Greek politicians were said to have reached an
accord on austerity measures, trading 0.6 percent down at 7.5951
as of 4:04 p.m. in Johannesburg. Against the euro, it slipped
0.7 percent to 10.0866.  Manufacturing (SFPMNSAY)  growth slowed in December as  Europe ’s debt
crisis curbed demand for exports to one of the country’s main
trading partners, South Africa’s statistics agency reported
today. Zuma, 69, will address lawmakers as the government
prepares to cut its growth forecast for a second time in four
months to below 3 percent and struggles to rein in a budget
deficit of 5.5 percent of gross domestic product. He is
scheduled to speak in Parliament at 7 p.m.  “The news out of  South Africa  today was mediocre, to say
the least,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury strategic
research at Johannesburg-based Nedbank Group Ltd., said by
phone. “The manufacturing data was terrible, and then there is
nervousness ahead of the state-of-the-nation address.”  Manufacturing accounts for about 15 percent of South
Africa’s economy, according to government data. The euro region,
which buys about 30 percent of South Africa’s manufactured
exports, faces “downside risks” to its economic outlook,
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said today after
the central bank left its benchmark  interest rate  at 1 percent.  Factory Output  South Africa’s factory output rose 2.4 percent from a year
earlier, down from a revised 2.8 percent in November. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of six economists was for
production to increase 2.6 percent.  Zuma is under pressure from his labor union allies and the
youth wing of the ruling  African National Congress , who want him
to nationalize mines and spend more on projects to create jobs.  “He has to confirm that nationalization is not on the
agenda, that infrastructure investment is going to be a top
priority, that Eskom and Transnet,” the electricity and
transport utilities, “are going to be a priority,”
Cruickshanks said. “There is a lot riding on this speech.”  The rand pared its decline after an unidentified government
official said Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos ’s office is
set to announce a deal on fiscal measures required for a 130
billion-euro financing package.  South Africa’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 declined for a
fifth day, driving the yield up four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 7.85 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  