-- RBS Said to Dismiss Four Bankers as Libor Investigation Widens to Brokers
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-02-09T23:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/rbs-said-to-dismiss-4-bankers-as-libor-probe-widens-to-brokers.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
the U.K.’s largest government-owned lender, dismissed at least
four employees in connection with a probe of potential interest-
rate manipulation, two people briefed on the move said.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  also have dismissed,
put on leave or suspended traders as part of the investigation,
according to two more people, who declined to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to discuss the case.  ICAP Plc (IAP) ,
the world’s largest broker of trades between banks, suspended an
employee in the past six weeks and put two others on leave,
another person said.  Regulators’ requests for information from interdealer
brokers marks a widening of the global investigation into
whether there were attempts to manipulate the London, Tokyo and
euro interbank offered rates, known as Libor, Tibor and Euribor.  The investigation is being handled by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission,  U.S. Department of Justice ,  Japan ’s Financial
Supervisory Agency and the U.K. Financial Services Authority.
European Union antitrust regulators and the Swiss Competition
Commission are also examining Libor rates.  Libor, a benchmark for about $360 trillion of financial
products worldwide, is derived from a survey of banks conducted
daily on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in London.
The lenders are asked how much it would cost them to borrow from
one another for 15 different periods, from overnight to one
year, in currencies including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss
francs. After a predetermined number of quotes are excluded,
those remaining are averaged and published for each currency by
the BBA before noon.  Barclays,  UBS (UBSN)   Traders at different banks appeared to be trying to
influence the movement of Libor and similar benchmarks to profit
from derivatives tied to the rates, the Financial Times reported
yesterday, citing information submitted to regulators.  Banks including Citigroup, London-based  Barclays (BARC)  Plc and
UBS AG, based in Zurich, approached authorities with information
about potential abuse of the rate-setting process after
discovering e-mails or other evidence during their internal
investigations, the newspaper reported, citing people familiar
with the matter.  Regulators are investigating whether rate bids were low-
balled during the financial crisis, if traders at banks and
hedge funds sought to influence rate-setters to profit on
interest-rate derivatives and whether traders received advanced
word about which direction rates would move, the FT reported,
without saying how it got that information.  RBS Dismissals  RBS dismissed  Paul White , Andrew Hamilton and Neil Danziger
in London, a person said. Danziger and Hamilton left the bank on
Oct. 21 and now are listed as inactive on the U.K. Financial
Services Authority’s register of people approved to work in the
industry. White, a trader, left the following month. Hamilton
was an  investment adviser , and Danziger a trader, the FSA said.  Attempts to reach all three through the Internet and
directory assistance were unsuccessful. None of the three has
been accused of any wrongdoing by regulators.  Spokesmen for RBS, Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank and New
York-based Citigroup declined to comment on the probes or
provide contact details for the former employees.  RBS also dismissed Tan Chi Min, the former head of delta
trading for RBS’s global banking and markets division in
 Singapore , for gross misconduct. He’s suing the bank over the
dismissal and seeking to recoup $1.5 million in bonuses and 3.3
million RBS shares that he claims he’s owed. He hasn’t been
accused of wrongdoing by authorities. Danziger hasn’t filed
papers in the suit between RBS and Tan.  Singapore Lawsuit  RBS alleged Tan sought to “improperly influence the
defendant’s rate setters” by asking them to have RBS submit
Libor rates “at particular levels in order to profit the
plaintiff’s book and/or the defendant and to maximize profit
generally,” according to a response to Tan’s lawsuit, filed in
December in Singapore. Danziger also “made similar requests”
to set rates, the bank alleged in the document.  ICAP units involved in broking cash deposits and
derivatives based on Libor also received requests for
information from government agencies in the investigation and
are cooperating, the firm said in a November regulatory filing.
A London-based ICAP spokesman declined to comment.  Tullett Prebon Plc and RP Martin also have received
requests of information from regulators about information-
sharing among brokers, banks and  hedge funds , the Financial
Times reported, citing unidentified people familiar with the
talks. Officials at Tullett Prebon didn’t immediately return
calls seeking comment on the report, while an RP Martin
spokeswoman declined to comment.  $50 Million Write-Off  Thomas Hayes, a Tokyo-based trader for Citigroup, was
dismissed last year for alleged involvement in the manipulation
of interbank rates, one of the people said. No one else in
London has been suspended or is under investigation, the person
said. Hayes, who has not been accused of any wrongdoing by
regulators, couldn’t be traced.  Citigroup was forced to write off $50 million as it exited
trades made by Tokyo-based employees, said a person familiar
with matter, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
details aren’t public.  A  JPMorgan Chase & Co . trader in  London  who was under an
internal investigation in the Libor probe left the firm on his
own volition two weeks ago, another person said. A spokesman for
the New York-based bank declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  