-- Real Madrid Heads Soccer’s Money League as Schalke, Tottenham Boost Sales
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-02-09T00:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/real-madrid-heads-soccer-s-money-league-as-schalke-tottenham-boost-sales.html
Real  Madrid  is the richest soccer
team by revenue for the seventh straight year, while Schalke and
Tottenham’s sales rose following successful Champions League
runs, according to accountant Deloitte LLP.  Real’s sales through June 2011 rose 9 percent to 479.5
million euros ($637 million), Deloitte said in its 15th annual
“Money League” report of the world’s highest-earning clubs in
the sport. The Spanish league leader’s seven straight years at
the top is one behind  Manchester United  run during the first
eight years of the survey.  European champion Barcelona is second with sales of 451
million euros, followed by Manchester United at 367 million
euros. Real Madrid and Barcelona top the ranking partly because
Spanish clubs negotiate their own television rights deals,
unlike teams in  England ’s Premier League.  “Both clubs are closing in on revenue of 500 million euros
and are likely to pass this threshold within the next few
years,” Deloitte said in the report. “Each club’s annual
revenues have grown by almost 200 million euros compared with
five years before, a remarkable achievement.”  The top 20 clubs have combined revenue of 4.4 billion
euros, accounting for over a quarter of the European soccer
market, Deloitte said.  The remainder of the top seven clubs --  Bayern Munich ,
Arsenal, Chelsea and AC Milan -- were the same as last year,
while  Inter Milan  moved up one to eighth and Liverpool fell to
ninth. All nine have maintained a position in the top half of
the ranking for each of the past eight years, according to
Deloitte.  Schalke Climbs  Schalke’s 45 percent increase in sales made it the biggest
climber, up six places to 10th with 302 million euros. The jump
resulted from the German club advancing to the  Champions League 
semifinals for the first time, Deloitte said.  Schalke didn’t qualify for this season’s Champions League
after finishing 14th in the Bundesliga and instead is playing in
the second-tier Europa League, where it’s reached the first
knockout round.  “The club’s failure to qualify for Champions League
football in 2011-12 means the club will not be able to maintain
their lofty position in the Money League,” Deloitte said.  Tottenham had the second-biggest increase, 36 percent,
after it reached the quarterfinals in its first Champions League
appearance. Its total of 181 million euros pushed it ahead of
Premier League leader  Manchester City  to the 11th spot.  Spurs failed to make this season’s Champions League but its
current third-place spot in the English league has it in
position for a return. The club also is planning a new stadium
after failing to win the right to lease the arena being built
for the 2012 London Olympics.  North London  “A glance across north London to Arsenal leaves little
doubt that increased match-day revenue opportunities arise from
a modern stadium development,” Deloitte said. “This coupled
with a continuation of their recent on-pitch form could secure a
Money League top-10 position on a frequent basis.”  Three new teams entered the top 20 this year with  Borussia
Dortmund  (16th), Valencia (19th) and Napoli (20th) replacing
 Atletico Madrid , Stuttgart and  Aston Villa . England had the most
teams with six, followed by five from  Italy , four from  Germany ,
three from  Spain  and two from  France .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 