-- Treasuries Decline as Greece Reaches a Debt Deal Before 30-Year Bond Sale
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-02-09T16:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/treasuries-decline-after-reports-greece-will-announce-debt-deal-agreement.html
Treasuries fell, pushing 30-year bond
yields to a three-month high, as Greece’s government reached a
deal on austerity measures required for a 130 billion-euro ($173
billion) financing package, damping haven demand.  U.S. debt   erased  earlier gains as the Greek accord was
announced via an e-mailed statement from the Greek Prime
Minister’s press office. Treasuries remained lower after a
report showed initial jobless claims unexpectedly fell last week
before an auction of $16 billion of 30-year bonds today.  “The market’s taking a beating on the news that a deal has
supposedly been reached in Greece,” said  Charles Comiskey , head
of Treasury trading at Bank of  Nova Scotia  in New York, one of
21 firms that trade Treasuries with the Federal Reserve. “The
market’s expectation was that this deal was going to be reached
and it’s putting pressure on yields right now. We still have the
auction today.”  U.S. 10-year yields rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.04 percent at 11:41 a.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent note
due February 2022 fell 6/32, or $1.88 per $1,000 face amount, to
99 20/32.  Thirty-year bond yields rose as much as five basis points
to 3.20 percent, the most since Oct. 31.  Limited Move  Declines in Treasuries were limited as the Fed has kept
borrowing costs at almost zero since 2008, and said last month
that economic conditions may warrant “exceptionally low
levels” for rates through at least late 2014 to boost the
economy and put more Americans back to work.  “It’s the same story that’s been holding us in forever:
there will be buyers on dips,” said  Thomas Roth , senior
Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA
Inc. “It’s hard for Treasuries to go straight down. There are
too many things that are holding them up, and the Fed is one of
the big ones. Their projection they’ll hold rates low until 2014
has given people the sense that they can buy these levels and be
comfortable.”  Warren Buffett , the billionaire chairman of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., said low  interest rates  and inflation should
dissuade investors from buying bonds and other holdings tied to
currencies.  “They are among the most dangerous of assets,” Buffett
said in an adaptation of his  annual letter  to shareholders that
appeared today on the website of Fortune magazine. “Over the
past century these instruments have destroyed the purchasing
power of investors in many countries, even as these holders
continued to receive timely payments of interest and
principal.”  Buffett on Bonds  Berkshire still holds bonds, primarily Treasuries, for
liquidity, and has a preference to invest in companies by buying
them outright or acquiring stock, Buffett said.  A formal offer for the Greek debt swap must be made by Feb.
13 to allow all procedures to be completed before the March 20
bond comes due.  Greece ’s Parliament may be called to vote on the
terms of the writedown on Feb. 12, state-runs Athens News Agency
reported yesterday, without saying how it got the information.  “The news out of Greece is positive, but there are many
hurdles to get over before the news is anywhere close to being
behind us,” said Michael Pond, co-head of interest-rate
strategy in New York at Barclays plc, a primary dealer that is
required to bid at Treasury auctions.  Jobless Claims  Applications for jobless benefits decreased 15,000 in the
week ended Feb. 4 to 358,000, Labor Department figures showed
today. Economists forecast 370,000 claims, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  The four-week
moving average, a less-volatile measure of claims, declined to
366,250, the lowest since April 26, 2008.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Feb. 7 the
8.3 percent rate of unemployment in January understates weakness
in the U.S. labor market.  “It is very important to look not just at the  unemployment
rate , which reflects only people who are actively seeking
work,” Bernanke said that day in response to questions at a
hearing before the Senate Budget Committee in  Washington .
“There are also a lot of people who are either out of the  labor
force  because they don’t think they can find work” or in part-
time jobs.  The 30-year U.S. bonds that investors will bid for today
yielded 3.15 percent in pre-sale trading, versus the record low
auction yield of 2.925 percent set in December.  Auction Data  At the previous sale in January, traders submitted  offers 
to buy 2.6 times the amount of available debt, versus the
average of 2.66 percent for the past 10 monthly auctions.  Indirect  bidders , the group that includes foreign central
banks, purchased 31.9 percent of the debt. Direct bidders, non-
primary dealers buying for their own accounts, bought 7.2
percent, the least in 10 months.  Treasury announced plans to sell $9 billion of 30-year
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities on Feb. 16. TIPS are
intended to provide investors with a hedge against inflation.
The securities rise or fall in value with movements in the
government’s consumer price index, with a three-month lag.  Floating Notes  The U.S. may begin selling floating-rate notes for the
first time in the second half of the year to help sustain demand
for Treasuries while funding record budget deficits, according
to Wall Street bond dealers.  Issuance may total about $10 billion a month, based on
forecasts from nine of the 21 primary dealers that act as
counterparties for the  Federal Reserve . The Treasury Borrowing
Advisory Committee, the group of bond dealers and investors that
meets quarterly with the Treasury to share insights on the  debt
market ,  unanimously  endorsed the sales, according to minutes of
the group’s meeting released Feb. 1. A Treasury official who
briefed reporters on condition of not being named said the next
day that a decision on floating-rate notes could be made as soon
as May.  The Fed is replacing $400 billion of shorter-maturity
Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt to cap
borrowing costs and spur the economy under a program it plans to
conclude in June.  The central bank bought $4.95 billion of securities due
from June 2018 to November 2019 today under the plan, according
to the New York Fed’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  