-- Treasuries Fluctuate as Greek Budget Discussions Struggle Over Pensions
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-02-09T12:51:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/treasuries-snap-loss-as-greece-fails-to-produce-economic-plan.html
Treasuries fluctuated as negotiations
in  Greece  stumbled over pensions and European finance ministers
prepared to hold an emergency meeting, boosting demand for a
refuge in  U.S. debt .  Yields on 30-year bonds fell from within three basis points
of a two-week high before the Treasury Department’s $16 billion
auction of the securities today. Yesterday’s offering of 10-year
notes drew the lowest demand since November.  “Treasury yields are kept at unrealistically low levels
because of ongoing concern about the debt crisis in the euro
region,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at
Commerzbank AG in London. “There are still hurdles ahead as far
as the Greek debt situation is concerned, and that will limit a
rise in bond yields.”  Yields on 30-year bonds dropped less than one basis points,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.15 percent at 7:47 a.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125
percent securities maturing in November 2041 rose 1/32, or 31
cents per $1,000 face amount, to 99 17/32. The yields touched
3.18 percent yesterday, the highest level since Jan. 23.  Investors should bet for the extra yield investors get for
holding 10-year notes instead of two-year debt to widen beyond
today’s 175 basis points as economic growth accelerates,
according to Schnautz.  Treasury 10-year notes yielded 2 percent, two basis points
more than German debt. The  European Central Bank  held its
benchmark  interest rate  at a record low 1 percent, as forecast
by all except two of the 57 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Greece Uncertainty  Greece’s Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said there is
still uncertainty on the terms of a 130 billion-euro
($173 billion) rescue package for Greece before today’s meeting
of euro-area finance ministers.  “There are issues outstanding that must be resolved by the
time the euro group meets,” Venizelos told reporters in  Athens 
after a meeting with Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  and European
Union and International Monetary Fund officials that ended just
before 6 a.m. in Athens.  The U.S. 30-year bonds that investors will bid for today
yielded 3.16 percent in pre-auction trading, compared with the
record low auction yield of 2.925 percent set in December.  At the previous sale in January, traders submitted  offers 
to buy 2.60 times the amount of available debt, versus the
average of 2.66 percent for the past 10 monthly auctions.  Indirect Bidding  Indirect  bidders , the group that includes foreign central
banks, purchased 31.9 percent of the debt. Direct bidders,
non-primary dealers buying for their own accounts, bought 7.2
percent, the least in 10 months.  The U.S. will announce today the size of a 30-year sale of
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities scheduled for Feb. 16.
The auction will probably be for $10 billion, according to
Wrightson ICAP LLC, an economic advisory company in  Jersey City ,
 New Jersey , that specializes in  government finance . The money
will be so-called new cash because the sale doesn’t coincide
with any maturing debt, according to Wrightson.  Company bonds are poised to gain because they offer higher
yields than  government securities , Anthony Valeri, a
fixed-income strategist at LPL Financial LLC in San Diego, wrote
in a report dated yesterday.  “Corporate bond sectors have the potential to have the
best return in 2012,” according to LPL, which gives investment
advice and brokerage services to 12,500 financial advisers.  Corporate Returns  Company debt in the U.S. has returned 2.4 percent this year
as of yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data. While  U.S. government debt  has lost 0.4 percent this year,
it has still outperformed U.K. and German securities, which have
declined 1.9 percent and 0.8 percent, respectively. TIPS have
gained 1.6 percent, the indexes indicate.  The  Federal Reserve  is replacing $400 billion of
shorter-maturity Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term
debt to cap borrowing costs and spur the economy under a program
it plans to conclude in June.  The central bank is scheduled to buy as much as $5 billion
of securities due from February 2018 to November 2019 today
under the plan, according to the New York Fed’s  website .  Initial claims for  unemployment insurance  were little
changed last week at 370,000, below last year’s average of
409,000, according to a Bloomberg News survey. U.S. gross
domestic product will expand 2.3 percent in 2012, versus 1.7
percent in 2011, another Bloomberg survey shows.  Economic growth is slow enough to make Shinji Kunibe, chief
portfolio manager for fixed-income investment in  Tokyo  at Nissay
Asset Management Corp., bullish on Treasuries.  “Yields will gradually decline as developed economies
linger at low growth rates,” he said. Kunibe said he may buy if
10-year yields rise past 2 percent. Nissay manages the
equivalent of $70 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@hotmail.com ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  