-- Treasury Is to Sell Floating Rate Notes in Second Half, Bond Dealers Say
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-02-09T12:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/treasury-to-sell-floaters-in-second-half-of-year-dealers-say.html
The U.S. may begin selling floating-
rate notes for the first time in the second half of the year to
help sustain demand for Treasuries while funding record budget
deficits, according to Wall Street bond dealers.  Issuance may total about $10 billion a month, based on
forecasts from nine of the 21 primary dealers that act as
counterparties for the  Federal Reserve . The Treasury Borrowing
Advisory Committee, the group of bond dealers and investors that
meets quarterly with the Treasury to share insights on the  debt
market ,  unanimously  endorsed the sales, according to minutes of
the group’s meeting released Feb. 1. A Treasury official who
briefed reporters on condition of not being named said the next
day that a decision on floating-rate notes could be made as soon
as May.  The notes, in what would be the Treasury’s first new
security since it began offering inflation-linked debt in 1997,
would likely appeal to investors concerned that the Fed’s pledge
to keep the federal funds rate at a record low through 2014 and
other stimulus measures will eventually lead to an acceleration
of inflation. The Treasury has said it may sell the securities
to minimize borrowing costs, improve liquidity and expand its
investor base as it funds a $1.1 trillion shortfall this year.  “People are looking for a safe asset where they can park
funds for a while,” said Larry Dyer, a U.S. interest-rate
strategist with HSBC Holdings Plc’s HSBC Securities unit in New
York, one of the primary dealers that are required to bid at
Treasury debt auctions. “For the Treasury, it may accomplish
the goal of lengthening its funding with less roll-over risk. It
lowers the volatility for investors.”  Bill Issuance  Government-run agencies including  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac  sell floating-rate notes.  Issuance of floating-rate notes would likely displace 5
percent of current Treasury bill issuance in the first year, and
supplant 20 percent of current bill supply over time,  Priya Misra , head of U.S. rates strategy in New York at primary dealer
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in an interview yesterday.  The total amount of  bills outstanding  at the end of 2011
dropped to $1.52 trillion from $1.77 trillion at the end of 2010
as the government ended programs to bail out the nation’s banks
amid the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  The  rate  of the three-month U.S. Treasury bill was
unchanged today at 0.076 percent. While that’s just below the
high for this year of 0.0813 percent set yesterday, it’s still
down from the average of 3.17 percent for the last two decades.  ‘Perma-Hold Mode’  Demand for the securities may also come from banks boosting
holdings of the highest-quality assets to meet  Basel  III
regulations set by the Bank for International Settlements in
Basel,  Switzerland , Misra said.  “We expect interest from a variety of investors although
the demand could be lukewarm as long as the Fed stay in perm-
hold mode,”  George Goncalves , the New York-based head of
interest-rate strategy at primary dealer Nomura Holdings Inc.,
wrote yesterday in an e-mail. “Investors will be more
interested once hiking cycles come imminent.”  The offering of floating-rate notes would expand investment
opportunities for risk-averse investors including  money-market 
funds, according to a  Fitch Ratings  note released Feb. 7.  Money
market funds  limited to investment in Treasuries would benefit
the most from an increase in supply, the note said.  Money Markets  “It’s hard to see anybody jumping up and down to get them
with rates so low,” said  Jay Mueller , who manages about $3
billion of bonds at Wells Fargo Capital Management in  Milwaukee .
“If you think rates are going to go up soon, floating-rate
notes may be interesting to you.”  Money-market funds were created in 1970 to offer investors
better returns than bank savings accounts while providing a
higher degree of safety. The funds have delivered historically
low returns since the Fed cut its target rate in December 2008
to a range of zero to 0.25 percent.  Taxable money-market funds paid an average seven-day
 compounded yield  of 0.02 percent, unchanged during the month
ending Jan. 31, according to IMoneyNet Inc., a research firm
based in Westborough,  Massachusetts .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  