-- Treasury 30-Year Bond Yields at 3-Month High on Auction, Greek Debt Deal
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-02-09T22:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/treasuries-decline-as-30-year-bond-auction-demand-trails-average-levels.html
     Feb. 9 (Bloomberg) --  Treasuries  fell, pushing 30-year bond
yields to a three-month high, as the sale of $16 billion of debt
was met with lower-than-average demand after Greece announced a
deal on austerity measures required for a financing package,
damping haven demand.  Bidding at the government’s three note and bond offerings
this week totaling $72 billion was weaker than similar sales
last month as investors responded to reports of progress
addressing  Europe ’s debt crisis. Data also showed the  U.S.
economy  is continuing to strengthen along with demand for risky
assets, such as stocks, which have gained for three consecutive
days.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co. boost holding of Treasuries
last month.  “We are seeing positive sentiment come out of Greece,
which is a positive for risk assets and is contributing to the
weakness in Treasuries,” said Eric Van Nostrand, an interest-
rate strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in New York, one of
the 21 primary dealers that are required to bid at the auctions.
“Treasury demand remains generally strong, but the bullish
trend is the weakest in the long end, and we saw that in today’s
auction.”  The yield on the current 30-year bond rose three basis
points to 3.18 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York , according to
Bloomberg Bond Traders prices. It reached 3.23 percent, the most
since Oct. 31. The 3.125 percent bond due November 2041 fell
18/32, or $5.63 per $1,000 face amount, to 98 30/32.  Yields on the benchmark 10-year note added two basis points
to 2.04 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.2
percent.  Gross Buys  Gross increased the proportion of U.S. government and
Treasury debt in Pimco’s $250.5 billion Total Return Fund in
January to 38 percent from 30 percent in December, according to
a report placed on the company’s website. He raised mortgages to
50 percent, the highest since June 2009, from 48 percent in
December.  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco doesn’t comment
directly on monthly changes in its portfolio holdings.  The bonds sold today drew a yield of 3.240 percent,
compared with an average forecast of 3.231 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of nine of the  Federal Reserve ’s 21
primary dealers. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with the amount of securities offered, was
2.47, compared with 2.6 at the January offering and an average
of 2.66 for the previous 10 sales.  The ratio of bids to debt sold declined at the Feb. 7
three-year note sale to 3.3 from 3.73 last month, and to 3.05 at
yesterday’s 10-year note auction from 3.29 in January.  Yield Difference  The  difference  between yields on Treasuries maturing in two
and 30 years, known as the yield curve, widened to 2.94
percentage points, the most since Oct. 28 when the difference
was 3.08 percentage points before Japanese financial officials
sold yen and bought dollars, funneling proceeds into the U.S.
government  debt market .  “The long end of the curve should continue to steepen as
inflation expectations are rising in that sector given the Fed’s
efforts on the economy,” Van Nostrand said.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 29.2 percent, compared with 31.9
percent of the notes at the January sale and an average for the
past 10 offerings of 33 percent.  Direct bidders, non-primary dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 14.7 percent of
the notes, compared with 7.2 percent at the last sale and an
average of 16.1 percent for the past 10 auctions.  Bond Returns  Thirty-year bonds have lost 4.4 percent this year after
returning 35.5 percent last year, more than triple the 9.8
percent gain by the broader Treasury market, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The Treasury sold $24 billion of 10-year debt yesterday
and $32 billion in three-year notes on Feb. 7. This week’s
auctions will raise $22.4 billion of new cash as maturing
securities held by the public total $49.6 billion.  The Treasury announced plans today to sell $9 billion of
30-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities on Feb. 16. TIPS
are intended to provide investors with a hedge against
inflation. The securities rise or fall in value with movements
in the government’s consumer price index, with a three-month
lag.  Greece ’s government reached a deal on austerity measures to
secure a 130 billion-euro ($173 billion) rescue, according to an
e-mailed statement from the Greek prime minister’s press office.
European finance chiefs may defer ratifying the deal.  Greek Update  “It’s up to the Greek government by concrete actions --
through legislation, other actions -- to convince its European
partners that the second program can be made to work,” European
Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said
today as he arrived for an emergency meeting of euro-area
finance ministers in Brussels.  Applications for U.S. jobless benefits decreased 15,000 in
the week ended Feb. 4 to 358,000, Labor Department figures
showed today. Economists forecast 370,000 claims, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The four-week
moving average, a less-volatile measure of claims, declined to
366,250, the lowest since April 26, 2008.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Feb. 7 the 8.3 percent
rate of unemployment in January understates weakness in the U.S.
labor market.  “It is very important to look not just at the  unemployment
rate , which reflects only people who are actively seeking
work,” Bernanke said that day in response to questions at a
hearing before the Senate Budget Committee in  Washington .
“There are also a lot of people who are either out of the  labor
force  because they don’t think they can find work” or in part-
time jobs.  Fed Policy  The Fed is replacing $400 billion of shorter-maturity
Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt to cap
borrowing costs and spur the economy under a program it plans to
conclude in June.  The central bank bought $4.95 billion of securities due
from June 2018 to November 2019 today under the plan, according
to the New York Fed’s  website .  The U.S. may begin selling floating-rate notes for the
first time in the second half of the year to help sustain demand
for Treasuries while funding record budget deficits, according
to Wall Street bond dealers.  Issuance may total about $10 billion a month, based on
forecasts from nine of the 21 primary dealers that act as
counterparties for the Fed. The Treasury Borrowing Advisory
Committee, the group of bond dealers and investors that meets
quarterly with the Treasury to share insights on the debt
market,  unanimously  endorsed the sales, according to minutes of
the group’s meeting released Feb. 1. A Treasury official who
briefed reporters on condition of not being named said the next
day that a decision on floating-rate notes could be made as soon
as May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  