-- Treasuries Rise as Greek Leaders Fail to Agree on Economic Austerity Plan
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-02-09T03:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/treasuries-rise-as-greek-leaders-fail-to-agree-on-economic-austerity-plan.html
Treasuries snapped a two-day decline
after Greek leaders failed to agree on economic measures needed
to earn a second aid package, driving investor appetite for the
relative safety of  U.S. debt .  Demand for a haven from  Europe ’s fiscal crisis sent  U.S.
Treasuries  surging in the past year, with debt due in 10 years
or longer returning 30 percent. The gain is second only to
Ireland among 144 government bond indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies,
after accounting for currency changes. The Treasury Department
is scheduled to auction $16 billion of 30-year bonds today.  “Triple A bonds are where we should be invested,” said
Hideo Shimomura, who helps oversee the equivalent of $77.8
billion in Tokyo as chief fund investor at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co., a unit of  Japan ’s biggest publicly traded bank.
“There’s a fear of some kind of default, not necessarily this
quarter but maybe in the future” in  Greece , he said.  U.S. 10-year yields declined one basis point to 2.01
percent as of 12:09 p.m. in Tokyo, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 2 percent security maturing in February 2022
rose 2/32, or 63 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 99 7/8.  Shimomura said Treasuries rank among the haven quality
bonds and he would consider buying 10-year notes with yields at
2.10 percent. The U.S. is graded AAA by Moody’s Investors
Service and Fitch Ratings, while  Standard & Poor’s  ranks it AA+.  Japan’s 10-year yield slid half a basis point to 0.985
percent. It has been at 1 percent or lower for two weeks.  Greek Talks  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  is meeting European
and International Monetary Fund officials to resolve a dispute
over pension cuts that threaten to scuttle a 130 billion-euro
($172 billion) rescue package.  The 30-year U.S. bonds that investors will bid for today
yielded 3.16 percent in pre-sale trading, versus the record low
auction yield of 2.925 percent set in December.  At the prior offering in January, traders submitted  offers 
to buy 2.60 times the amount of available debt, versus the
average of 2.66 percent for the past 10 monthly auctions.  Indirect  bidders , the investor group that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 31.9 percent of the securities,
compared with the 10-sale average of 33.  Direct bidders, non-primary dealers buying for their own
accounts, bought 7.2 percent, the least in 10 months.  The government is also scheduled to announce today the size
of a 30-year sale of Treasury Inflation Protected Securities
scheduled for Feb. 16. The auction will probably be for $10
billion, according to Wrightson ICAP LLC, an economic advisory
company in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , that specializes in
 government finance . The money will be so-called new cash because
the sale doesn’t coincide with any maturing debt, according to
Wrightson.  Corporate Debt  Company bonds are poised to gain because they offer higher
yields than  government securities , Anthony Valeri, a fixed-
income strategist at LPL Financial LLC in San Diego, wrote in a
report dated yesterday.  “Corporate bond sectors have the potential to have the
best return in 2012,” according to LPL, which provides
investment advice and brokerage services to 12,500 financial
advisers.  Company debt in the U.S. has returned 2.4 percent this year
as of yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data. An index of the securities yields 2.97 percentage points
more than Treasuries, the data show. Demand for the securities
has narrowed the spread to the least since August.  U.S. government securities have handed investors a 0.4
percent loss this year. TIPS gained 1.6 percent, the indexes
indicate.  The MSCI All Country World  Index (MXWD)  of stocks returned 9.4
percent in the period after accounting for reinvested dividends.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in  Tokyo  at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  