-- More U.S. Farmers Violate Genetically-Modified Corn Requirements
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-02-09T21:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/threefold-increase-in-corn-refuge-non-compliance-group-says.html
Monsanto Co. (MON)  and other seed makers
reported a threefold increase last year in U.S. farmers caught
violating requirements for planting genetically modified corn.  The data relates to farmers planting seeds that are
genetically modified to produce a toxin derived from Bacillus
thuringiensis, or Bt, a natural insecticide. The Environmental
Protection Agency requires the growers to plant an adjacent area
-- a so-called refuge -- of non-Bt corn so that bugs don’t
become immune.  About 41 percent of 3,053 farmers inspected in 2011 failed
to fully comply with the refuge requirement, according to data
from the Agricultural Biotechnology Stewardship Technical
Committee, which Monsanto provided today in an e-mail.  Seed companies are trying to get farmers to plant refuges
amid concern that an increasing number of bugs may be developing
resistance to modified crops. In July,  Iowa State University 
found some rootworms have evolved resistance to Cry3Bb1, a Bt
gene engineered into Monsanto corn. Entomologists in  Illinois 
and other Midwestern states are studying possible resistance in
fields where rootworms devour Monsanto’s Bt corn.  An increase in the proportion of farmers found not planting
refuges was expected because of a new industry initiative that
uses sales data, the National Corn Growers Association said
today in a statement on its  website . Seed companies used their
data to identify farmers who may not have purchased enough seed
for a refuge, said Nick Storer, global science policy leader for
 Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and the company’s representative on the ABSTC.  Farmer Visits  “What’s new is that every grower had some sort of scrutiny
this year,” Storer said in a telephone interview. “The whole
purpose of doing that was to try to increase the frequency with
which we identify non-compliant growers.”  The ABSTC, whose members include St. Louis-based Monsanto,
Dow,  DuPont Co. (DD)  and Syngenta AG, files compliance reports with
the EPA each January. The industry found about 15 percent of
growers weren’t complying in 2010.  Farmers who violate the requirements are now revisited at
least twice over five years, Joanne Carden, who is stewardship
strategy lead at Monsanto and represents the company on the
ABSTC, said in an interview. Farmers who fail a follow-up
inspection lose access to the technology, she said.  Improved enforcement was required by the EPA when it
extended product registrations for Bt corn products, Storer
said. Increased efforts to educate farmers also are part of the
new approach, he said.  Farmer Education  The industry’s targeted approach is a better use of limited
resources than random checks, said Bruce Tabashnik, an
entomologist at the  University of Arizona  in Tucson. Even more
important is educating farmers to understand that planting a
refuge will extend the life of Bt products, he said.  “The more we can extend each technology the more secure
the whole system becomes,” Tabashnik said in a telephone
interview. “If resistance happens too quickly, then the insects
are going to outpace the next technology.”  Monsanto’s most advanced resistance problem is with crops
engineered to tolerate its Roundup herbicide. Weeds that are no
longer killed by Roundup have invaded 14 million acres of U.S.
cotton, soybean and corn, according to  Syngenta AG (SYNN) , a Swiss
chemical maker. A Dow study last year found as many as 20
million acres of corn and soybeans may be infested.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  