-- Refinery Closing Threatens Virgin Islands’ Debt, Employment
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-02-09T11:50:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/refinery-closing-threatens-virgin-islands-debt-employment-1-.html
The U.S. Virgin Islands will confront
the threat of a debt downgrade when one of the region’s largest
oil refineries shuts down this month, doubling joblessness on
St. Croix, the archipelago’s poorest island.  About 2,000 workers will lose their jobs when the 350,000-
barrel-a-day Hovensa LLC refinery, a partnership of  Hess Corp. (HES) 
and Petroleos de Venezuela SA, closes in mid-February to stem
$1.3 billion in losses over the last three years. The decision
leaves the Virgin Islands without its biggest private employer
and facing a widening budget deficit and higher energy costs as
some of its best-paid jobs disappear.  “People are already wondering how we’re going to pay
utility bills,” Donna Christensen, the U.S. Virgin Islands’
delegate to Congress, said in a Feb. 1 phone interview from
Washington. “But this isn’t only going to affect the Virgin
Islands, it will have an impact across the nation.”  Faced with weaker demand for their fuels, Caribbean
refineries are shutting down or scaling back production, a move
that is straining island budgets while threatening higher energy
costs along the East Coast. The closure means ratings on bonds
sold by the Virgin Islands, a winter beach destination known for
its Captain Morgan rum distillery, are under review, said Marcy Block, an analyst at  Fitch Ratings .  East Coast Fuel  The Hovensa refinery provided 83,000 barrels a day of
gasoline and 47,000 barrels of distillate in October to the U.S.
Northeast, according to the Energy Department. U.S. East Coast
gasoline demand averaged  3.06 million barrels  per day in
November, down from 3.31 million barrels five years ago,
according to the latest data from the U.S. Energy Information
Administration.  Gasoline futures rose 2 percent to a four-month high of
$2.8254 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  after the
Jan. 18 announcement to close Hovensa. The news followed
decisions by  Sunoco Inc. (SUN)  and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  to shutter two
Pennsylvania refineries.  The loss in tax earnings from the refinery will drain $60
million annually from the Virgin Islands’ $700 million budget,
which was facing a $67 million operating deficit this year
before the announcement, according to government estimates.  The closing may prompt a downgrade on about $650 million of
BBB-rated Virgin Islands Public Finance Authority debt secured
by gross receipts taxes, Fitch said in a Jan. 19 report. About
$1.2 billion in bonds backed by federal excise taxes on rum
sales to the U.S. are less likely to be affected, the report
said.  ‘Devastating Blow’  “This one closure will be a devastating blow to the Virgin
Islands,” Block said in a Feb. 2 interview from  New York .
“They’re in a tough spot.”  The islands’ bonds are rated Baa1, the third-lowest
investment grade rating, by Moody’s Investors Service and aren’t
under review for a downgrade, spokesman  David Jacobson  said.
Standard and Poor’s rates the debt BBB.  Virgin Islands’ debt has returned 3.1 percent this year,
compared with 3.7 percent for  Puerto Rico  and 2.1 percent for
municipal bonds overall, according to  Barclays Capital . The tax-
exempt bonds’ higher yields have helped them outperform other
munis, said Matt Dalton, who manages about $1 billion of
municipal debt, including Virgin Islands’ debt, as chief
executive officer at Belle Haven Investments Inc. in  White
Plains , New York.  Falling Yields  The yield on the Public Finance Authority’s 5 percent bonds
maturing in October 2020 have fallen 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, this year to 3.6 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. Treasuries maturing in November 2020
yield about 1.76 percent.  “People are desperate for yield,” said Dalton.  The  U.S. Virgin Islands , which were purchased from  Denmark 
for $25 million in gold in 1917, lie east of Puerto Rico and
form part of the same archipelago as the British Virgin Islands.
The islands, which include St. Croix, St. Thomas and St. John,
are a U.S. territory and its 106,000 residents, who elect a
governor and a 15-member senate, are U.S. citizens.  Out of 1,200 full-time workers and 950 contract employees
employed by the refinery, only 100 will be retained,  Alex Moorhead , a Hovensa spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.
Refinery workers who made as much as $32 an hour will have to
compete for jobs in hotels or restaurants that pay about $11 per
hour, said Jerry Jackson, the St. Croix representative of the
United Steelworkers union.  St. Croix’s unemployment rate will jump to 18.7 percent,
the highest among U.S. island territories, from 9.6 percent as a
result of the closing, Labor Commissioner Albert Bryan Jr. said.
The U.S. unemployment rate was 8.3 percent in January.  ‘Fear and Anxiety’  Governor John de Jongh, who cut public salaries by 8
percent and fired 500 state workers last year to cope with
budget shortfalls, said there could more dismissals, shorter
work weeks, additional school closings and fewer police.  “The Hovensa announcement has caused a universal shudder
of fear and anxiety to pass through our islands,” de Jongh, 54,
said in his Jan. 30 State of the Territory speech. “Unlike a
hurricane, we had no warning this was coming, no time to
prepare, to adjust to the possibility that we might be hit.”  The Virgin Islands isn’t alone in struggling to sustain
refinery operations.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  has reduced production
at its 235,000 barrel-a-day Aruba refinery because it isn’t
profitable,  Bill Day , a San Antonio-based spokesman for the
company, said Jan. 26.  Regional Recovery  The demise of Caribbean refineries comes as regional
economies are still recovering from the 2008 global financial
crisis, as well as the lingering damage from hurricanes and the
2010 earthquake in  Haiti , the hemisphere’s poorest country.  When measured as a proportion of gross domestic product,
four of the 11 most indebted nations in the world are in the
Caribbean. St. Kitts & Nevis leads the region, with debt-to-GDP
of 185 percent, ahead of  Greece  at 165 percent, according to the
 World Bank . Antigua & Barbuda, Jamaica and Barbados round out
the list.  “The region has not been very lucky with natural
disasters,” said Auguste Kouame, an economist at the
Washington-based lender, in a Jan. 27 phone interview. “When a
hurricane hits, they tend to borrow to respond to the shock.”  Michael Dembeck,  executive director  for the St. Croix
Chamber of Commerce, said the refinery closing will have a
ripple effect throughout the economy, harming trucking
companies, restaurant business and cutting enrollment at private
schools.  The government offers discounts on property and excise
taxes of as much as 100 percent, along with other benefits, to
help lure new investment, he said.  “We have to target light manufacturing and financial
management firms, but those won’t come close to matching the
loss in employment from Hovensa,” Dembeck, 64, said in a Feb. 2
phone interview from St. Croix. “It’s going to take time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Sabo in  Washington  at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  