-- Renaissance Ready to Start Building Kenya’s $5 Billion Tatu City
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-02-09T12:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/renaissance-ready-to-start-building-kenya-s-5-billion-tatu-city.html
Renaissance Partners, the investment
unit of Moscow-based Renaissance Capital Financial Holdings
Ltd., will start building a $5 billion, 2,500-acre residential
complex outside the Kenyan capital, Nairobi, this month.  The first stage of the 11-phase project, known as Tatu
City, will cost $100 million and is expected to be completed by
the fourth quarter of next year, Arnold Meyer, Renaissance
Partners’ managing director for real estate in  Africa , said
yesterday in an interview in Nairobi.  Renaissance Group, headed by Stephen Jennings, is taking
advantage of sub-Saharan Africa’s economic growth, an expanding
urban middle class and a real estate market where supply lags
demand. The economies of the region are projected to grow by 5.5
percent in 2012, the second fastest after  Asia , the
 International Monetary Fund  said Jan. 24. The region’s economies
grew 4.9 percent last year, it said.  Tatu City, about 9 miles north of Nairobi, will eventually
have 62,000 residents, Meyer said. Besides the residential area,
phase one, covering 168 acres and involving about 3,000 workers,
will include hotels, offices and a shopping mall, Meyer said.  Construction also includes roads, water, electricity,
sewerage and probably piped gas, Meyer said. The entire project
will be completed in eight to 11 years, depending on demand, he
said.  For the past 15 months Renaissance has been involved in a
legal dispute with a local partner over the ownership of land
north of Tatu, though Meyer said he hoped the Kenyan High Court
would deliver a verdict soon.  Breaking Ground  In  Ghana , where Renaissance has two projects, in the
capital, Accra, and Takoradi, an oil hub 115 miles west of the
capital, ground breaking will be done toward the end of the
year, he said.  “Instead of outright purchase of the land we have
partnered with the local communities and leaders,” Meyer said.
“The master plans have been approved by the regional
councils.”  Renaissance is finalizing the master plan for a housing
project on 6,400 acres in Lubumbashi in the  Democratic Republic 
of Congo, he said. Feasibility studies are under way in Lagos,
the Nigerian commercial capital, and  Port Harcourt , an oil hub.
The company is also looking at Senegal and  Rwanda , Meyer said.  In Zambia, Renaissance did the ground breaking in April
last year for  Roma Park , a 290-acre project that will have 80
commercial stands and 300 residential units, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  