-- China Repo Rate Falls as PBOC Skips Bill Sales; Swap Rate Rises
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-02-09T08:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/repo-rate-falls-as-chinese-central-bank-skips-bill-sales-swap-rate-rises.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
fell, snapping a three-day advance, after the central bank
skipped bill sales today. The one-year swap rate rose for a
fourth day after inflation unexpectedly accelerated.  The monetary authority sold only 20 billion yuan ($3.2
billion) of 91-day  repurchase agreements , according to a
statement on its website. Consumer prices rose 4.5 percent in
January from a year earlier, official data showed today. That
compares with the median 4 percent estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey and a 4.1 percent gain in December. The data is distorted
by increased spending over the Chinese New Year holiday in
January.  The inflation data “isn’t necessarily pointing to a new
trend,” said Matt Huang, a rates strategist at Macquarie Bank
Ltd. in  Singapore . “You’re going to see a better reading next
month and we better wait to see whether the trend is increasing
or not.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, fell five basis points to
3.67 percent as of 4:30 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to a
weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repo rate, rose six basis points to 3.31 percent.  Today’s inflation data may reinforce Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s
cautious approach to adding stimulus to support growth. The
government raised retail fuel charges yesterday and companies
including Starbucks Inc. and McDonald’s Corp. said last month
they lifted prices to counter higher wages and commodity costs.  Gross domestic product may increase 8.5 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier and consumer prices may rise
about 3.5 percent, the China Securities Journal reported today,
citing the State Information Center.  Government bonds  fell. The yield on 3.93 percent government
securities due August, 2021 gained five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 3.55 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  