-- Repsol Jumps on Higher Estimate for Argentine Shale Reserves
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-02-09T16:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/repsol-jumps-on-higher-estimate-for-argentine-shale-reserves-2-.html
Repsol YPF SA (REP)  rose the most in five
weeks in Madrid trading after its Argentine unit said its shale
oil resources probably hold almost half that of  Brazil ’s pre-
salt reserves.  The shares gained 2.1 percent, the most since Dec. 29, to
21.13 euros. YPF, producer of more than half of  Argentina ’s
crude, said yesterday the Vaca Muerta formation in Patagonia
probably contains about 23 billion barrels of oil.  The resources at Vaca Muerta compare with the 50 billion
barrels of oil Brazil estimates it’s found under a thick layer
of salt beneath the seabed, which include the largest fields
discovered in the Americas in three decades. YPF had previously
discovered about 927 million barrels at the Loma La Lata field
in the Vaca Muerta formation.  “We value the shale upside at 3 euros a share,” said
Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec Securities Ltd. in  London .
“It certainly is a relief after the relentless political
pressure on Repsol’s share price out of Argentina.”  Before today, Repsol had fallen almost 13 percent this
year. In October, Argentina’s government ordered oil and mining
companies to repatriate export revenues and in November opposed
a dividend payment for YPF as it seeks to stem capital flight.
YPF was one of nine companies that also lost financial
incentives for oil exploration and production on Feb. 3.,
following speculation that the government may consider
nationalizing the company.  Shale Boom  Shale resources are drilled by blasting underground rocks
with sand and chemicals. The process sparked the boom that made
the U.S. the world’s biggest producer of natural gas.  Global shale oil reserves are conservatively estimated at
2.6 trillion barrels, and the amount of shale oil that can be
recovered depends on “many factors,” according to the Energy
Minerals Division of the  American Association  of Petroleum
Geologists.  YPF’s new estimates come after further drilling in
Argentina’s Neuquen province and reviews of the area by
independent auditor Ryder Scott, YPF said.  The Vaca Muerta formation in Patagonia is 12,997 square
kilometers (5,018 square miles), almost the size of  Connecticut .
Ryder Scott’s study covered an area of 8,071 square kilometers,
in which YPF holds 5,016 kilometers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  