-- Repsol Says Argentine Shale-Oil Formation Requires $250 Billion Investment
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-02-09T17:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/repsol-says-argentine-shale-to-require-250-billion-investment.html
Repsol YPF SA’s (REP)  Argentine unit said
$25 billion a year will be needed over a decade to develop shale
oil resources at the Vaca Muerta formation in the south of the
country, which probably holds about 23 billion barrels.  The estimate comes after further drilling in a Connecticut-
sized area of  Argentina ’s Neuquen province and reviews of the
area by independent auditor Ryder Scott,  YPF (YPF)  said late yesterday
in a statement. YPF, the local unit of Madrid-based Repsol,
earlier discovered 927 million barrels of commercially viable
oil at the Loma La Lata field, also located in the formation.  YPF, producer of more than half Argentina’s crude, is
boosting exploration to arrest output declines amid government
criticism that local  oil companies  are failing to invest in
production. The resources at Vaca Muerta compare with the 50
billion barrels of oil Brazil estimates it found underneath a
thick layer of salt beneath the seabed and which include the
largest fields discovered in the Americas in three decades.  “If the exploration proved to be successful in the whole
Vaca Muerta formation and immediate intensive development began
in the area, current oil and gas production capacity of
Argentina could double in 10 years time,” YPF said in a  
statement . “It would be necessary to make a vast investing
effort that would reach $25 billion per year.”  Repsol Gains  Repsol rose 3.3 percent to 21.37 euros as of 3:22 p.m. in
Madrid after earlier gaining as much as 4.4 percent. American
depositary receipts in Buenos Aires-based YPF climbed as much as
12 percent to $36.30 yesterday in  New York  and closed 11 percent
higher at $35.90.  The development of the reserves will require higher oil and
gas prices to be appealing for investors, BTG Pactual SA
analysts led by Gustavo Gattass said today in a note to clients.
Domestic  oil prices  in Argentine are about $70 per barrel while
gas is about $14 per barrel of oil equivalent, according to the
report. Oil in New York is trading at about $100 a barrel.  In October, the government ordered oil and mining companies
to repatriate export revenues and in November opposed a dividend
payment for YPF as it seeks to stem capital flight. YPF was one
of nine companies that also lost financial incentives for oil
exploration and production on Feb. 3., following speculation
that the government may consider nationalizing the company.  Tapping Reserves  The government could use central bank reserves to pay for a
takeover of YPF, Sebastian Vargas, an economist at Barclay’s
Capital, said yesterday in a report to clients.  Energy Secretary Daniel Cameron met today with provincial
governors in  Buenos Aires  and said all energy companies need to
boost their output out of “national necessity.”  “We will demand that each company produce at the maximum
level possible in all of their fields,” Cameron told reporters
after the meeting. “This isn’t an attack on their right to
property but a measure to respond to a national necessity."  YPF last year invested a record 13.3 billion pesos ($3.06
billion), 50 percent more than the previous year, according to a
separate  statement  yesterday. The company spent 8.9 billion
pesos of the investment on exploration and added 137 million
barrels of proved reserves with a reserve replacement ratio of
160 percent for the year, according to the filing.  Pre-Salt Reserves  Petroleo Brasileiro SA,  Brazil ’s state-controlled oil
company, expects to invest about $224 billion over five years to
develop so-called pre-salt reserves, which hold about 50 billion
barrels of oil, according to Brazil’s oil regulator.  YPF’s previous 927 million barrel estimate came from
surveying 3 percent of the 12,000 square kilometers of Vaca
Muerta licensed to the company, Chief Executive Officer
Sebastian Eskenazi said in November. The 927 million resources
are so-called contingent resources, which are commercially
viable, while the 23 billion are estimated total deposits.  The Vaca Muerta formation, located in Patagonia, means
’dead cow.’ Ryder Scott’s study covered an area of 8,071 square
kilometers, in which YPF holds 5,016 kilometers.  ‘‘There’s a tremendous amount of resource potential for YPF
to develop,” Matthew Portillo, an analyst at Tudor Pickering
Holt & Co., said yesterday in a telephone interview from
Houston. “It’s an impressive number in terms of the potential
size and scope of Vaca Muerta within Argentina.”  Largest Find  The Loma la Lata discovery was Repsol’s largest ever and
YPF’s largest since at least the early 1990s.  Argentine officials have discussed nationalizing YPF,
Pagina/12 newspaper reported Jan. 29, without saying where it
got the information. Pagina/12 regularly runs interviews with
top government officials such as Vice President  Amado Boudou ,
who have said that the company needs to do more on production.  YPF may not be able to sustain dividend payments equal to
90 percent of the company’s annual net income amid pressure from
the Argentine government, Deutsche Bank AG said in a Feb. 6 note
to clients. Repsol,  Spain ’s largest oil company, owns a 57
percent stake in YPF, while the Eskenazi family’s Petersen
Energia SA owns about 25 percent of YPF and operates it.  Brufau Visit  Antonio Brufau , chief executive officer of Repsol, met
Argentina’s planning and economy ministers Feb. 6 to discuss the
government’s criticism, news agency EFE reported, citing people
close to the meeting which it didn’t identify.  Repsol said in November that Loma la Lata’s shale oil is
similar in volume to YPF’s existing reserves and its largest
find. The company said Vaca Muerta is among the world’s largest
and highest quality so-called non-conventional oil and gas
resources. YPF is the world’s second-largest company in non-
conventional acreage, auditors Wood Mackenzie said at the time.  Repsol is also exploring in Brazil’s Santos, Espirito Santo
and Campos basins, including minority stakes in the Guara and
Carioca discoveries where the company estimates recoverable
reserves of as much as 3 billion barrels.  Repsol last year sold a 40 percent stake in its Brazilian
business to China Petrochemical Corp. for $7.1 billion in a deal
that valued the Spanish company’s remaining stake at about $10.7
billion. It invested $2 billion in exploring the site.  Brazil Discovery  The discovery of offshore oil in Brazil led to a surge in
the market value of state-controlled oil producer  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , which has about 16 billion barrels of reserves.
Discoveries including the Lula and Franco fields contain
billions of barrels and are the largest finds in the western
hemisphere since  Mexico ’s Cantarell in 1976.  Total world resources of oil shale, which is more expensive
to produce than conventional oil, are conservatively estimated
at 2.6 trillion barrels, and the amount of shale oil that can be
recovered depends on “many factors,” according to the Energy
Minerals Division of the  American Association  of Petroleum
Geologists.  Shale formations contributed to a boom in U.S. oil output
that reached a 9-year high in October, according to Energy
Department data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in  Madrid   at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  