-- Republicans Criticize Obama ‘Attack’ on Religion at Conservatives’ Meeting
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-02-09T19:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/republicans-criticize-obama-attack-on-religion-at-conservatives-meeting.html
Republican leaders, seeking to rally
conservatives at an annual gathering, accused President  Barack Obama  of assaulting religious liberty by requiring sectarian
schools and hospitals to provide birth-control coverage to
employees.  “The Obama administration has crossed a dangerous line,”
Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  told hundreds of
Republican activists attending the Conservative Political Action
Conference today in Washington.  “The federal government will impose a fine on Catholic
institutions for no other reason than that the religious beliefs
of Catholics run counter to those of a sitting president,” said
McConnell of  Kentucky . “We will fight this attack on the
fundamental right to religious freedom until the courts overturn
it.”  The administration’s decision, announced Jan. 20, has
quickly entered the presidential campaign. Catholic bishops
ordered lectures from pulpits across the country. Republicans
view the ruling as a potential liability for Obama, particularly
in swing states including Michigan and  Pennsylvania  with large
populations of Catholic voters.  The decision requires employers to cover contraception
through their employee health insurance at no added cost to
workers. Houses of worship and nonprofit religious groups that
primarily employ and serve people of the same religious faith
would be exempt, while religious hospitals and universities
would not. Nonprofit groups will have until August 2013 to
adjust.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio  Republican, has
promised that his chamber will pass legislation to overturn the
rule.  ‘Creating a Backlash’  “Obama attacked the bishops of the Catholic Church, their
entire hierarchy of the church,” said the Reverend Lou Sheldon
of the Traditional Values Coalition, which represents thousands
of churches on moral and social issues. “He’s creating a
backlash that’s driving the social conservatives.”  The public debate follows a months-long struggle within the
White House over how broad an exemption to grant to religious
organizations. White House advisers sought a middle ground that
might accommodate both sides, only to run into legal obstacles,
said people familiar with the negotiations, who spoke on
condition of anonymity.  “The federal government does not have the power to force
religious organizations to pay for things that that organization
thinks is wrong,” Florida Senator Marco Rubio said at the
conservative conference. “The First Amendment still applies,
religious freedom still exists,” said Rubio, a potential
Republican vice presidential candidate. “This is a
constitutional issue.”  Uniting Religions  RedState.com editor Erick Erickson said Obama “has done
something that Jesus himself could not do. He’s united Muslims,
Jews, Catholics and Southern Baptists all together in
opposition.”  One in four U.S. voters is Catholic, said  John Green ,
director of the University of Akron’s Ray C. Bliss Institute of
Applied Politics in Akron, Ohio.  The white Catholic vote accounts for about 16 percent and
is divided among Democrats, Republicans and independents. Those
independents make up eight percent to 10 percent of U.S. voters,
Green said. In 2008, Green said, Obama won the Catholic vote 54
percent to 46 percent, based on exit polls.  Other themes at the annual gathering include the U.S. tax
system, the national debt and proposals to repeal Obama’s
health-care overhaul.  Obama has repeatedly “failed” throughout his presidency,
Rubio said. “He cannot run on his record.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in  Washington  at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  