-- Rio Tinto Posts Loss on $8.9 Billion Aluminum Charge; Albanese Skips Bonus
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-02-09T09:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/rio-tinto-2011-profit-unexpectedly-falls-59-.html
Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-
largest mining company, swung to a second-half loss, its first
in four years, after taking an $8.9 billion one-time charge on
the value of its aluminum business.  The  loss  was $1.76 billion in the six months ended Dec. 31,
London-based Rio said today in an e-mailed statement. That
compares with a record profit of $8.5 billion a year earlier.
Deutsche Bank AG estimated on Feb. 6 the company would take a
charge of $6 billion on the unit.  Aluminum has declined 12 percent in the past year, hurting
producers such as United Co. Rusal and  Alcoa Inc ., which last
month booked its first loss in two years. Rio Chief Executive
Officer Tom Albanese said he won’t take an annual bonus because
of the charge related to the $38 billion acquisition in 2007 of
Alcan Inc., the biggest mining takeover before the  Glencore
International Plc - Xstrata Plc  combination proposed this week.  “The impairment charges were bigger than expected,” said
Ric Ronge, who helps manage the equivalent of $1.3 billion in
stocks, including Rio and  BHP Billiton Ltd ., at Pengana Global
Resources Fund in Melbourne.   Rio  dropped as much as 2.7 percent in  London  trading and
was down 1.1 percent at 3,831.5 pence at 8:34 a.m. The FTSE 350
 Mining Index  was 0.1 percent lower. Before today, the stock had
gained 24 percent this year. The company’s Sydney-traded shares
fell 0.2 percent to A$71.60 before the announcement.  ‘Admitted Defeat’      Rio  reported a 59 percent drop in full-year profit to $5.8
billion. Underlying earnings rose 11 percent to a record $15.5
billion, supported by the performance of its biggest-earning
iron ore unit, Rio said. Second-half underlying earnings were
$7.8 billion, according to an e-mail from the company.  The results “are a mixed bag driven by impressive
performance from the group’s iron ore business; however the
group has finally admitted defeat on Alcan amid low prices and
soaring input costs,”  Charles Cooper , a London-based mining
analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd., said today in a note.  Rio’s final dividend of 91 cents compared with a Bloomberg
estimate of 76 cents. UBS AG had forecast a final dividend of 
67 cents a share and Deutsche Bank AG 95 cents. Rio had scope 
to increase its payout by as much as 50 percent, Citigroup 
Inc. said.  “The operating performance of the assets themselves seems
to be pretty good,” Pengana’s Ronge said. “The full-year
number is better than expected. The dividend looks to be better
than consensus, as well.”  No New Buyback  The full-year dividend rose 34 percent to 145 cents. Rio
has no plans for a further share buyback after the completion of
its current $7 billion plan, Chief Financial Officer Guy Elliott
said today on a call with reporters from London. Rio will
continue to review future buybacks, he said.  Rio in October said it planned to  sell  13 aluminum assets,
including smelters and alumina plants in  Australia , the U.S. and
U.K., to improve its finances. It has cut debt after  borrowings 
ballooned to $40 billion with its purchase of Alcan.  The sale, which may draw bids from Chinese buyers according
to Deutsche Bank, is taking place within “tough conditions”
and the company is considering various options including an
initial public offering, Elliott said.  There are “uncertain macroeconomic conditions, together
with stronger currencies in some regions and high raw material
costs,” Albanese said today, reiterating comments made in
November when the company flagged likely impairments to its
aluminum assets. “As the acquisition of Alcan happened on my
watch, I felt it only right not to be considered for an annual
bonus this year.”  Aluminum Falls ‘Sharply’  While the price of aluminum, used in cars, packaging and
houses, averaged 10 percent higher in 2011 than a year earlier,
it dropped “sharply” in the fourth quarter, Rio said, adding
that the industry has been in surplus for the past five years.
Rio’s aluminum unit was unprofitable in the second-half, Elliott
said.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company,
yesterday reported a 5.5 percent drop in first-half profit, its
first decline since 2009, as rising costs and lower output and
prices halved base metals earnings. The aluminum industry has
had a “structural profitability downturn,” BHP CEO Marius Kloppers said on a call with reporters yesterday.  “The industrywide phenomenon of high cost inflation has
continued in a number of mining hot-spots in which we operate,”
Albanese said in the statement. “These pressures, together with
the strengthening of the Australian and Canadian currencies,
escalating raw material prices, the impacts of adverse weather
conditions and lower grades squeezed our margins in 2011.”  Glencore’s $37.6 billion all-share offer for Xstrata would
create the fourth-biggest mining company, increasing rivalry
with BHP, Rio and  Vale SA . BHP’s Kloppers yesterday said his
company has the firepower to keep making acquisitions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in  Melbourne  at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  