-- Rio Tinto, Republicans Face Indian Opposition to Copper Plan
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-02-09T17:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/rio-tinto-republicans-face-indian-opposition-to-copper-plan.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  is getting support
from two key Senate Republicans -- and Indian tribe opposition -
- as it seeks congressional backing for a land swap that would
give the company access to copper resources in Arizona.  Both Republican senators from the state testified at a
hearing today in favor of a measure that would give the company
access to 2,422 acres of federal land that  Rio Tinto  says holds
the world’s third-largest undeveloped copper resources. Senators
John McCain and  Jon Kyl  said Rio Tinto’s development would
create 3,700 jobs, provide a fourth of U.S. copper supply and
generate $20 billion in federal, state and local revenue.  The House of Representatives has passed a bill allowing
London-based Rio Tinto, the world’s third-largest mining
company, to acquire the property in exchange for about 5,300
acres Rio  says  are “high-quality conservation lands,” chosen
with input from the  U.S. Forest Service  and the Interior
Department. The Senate is now considering whether to propose
legislation.  “Proponents contend that the mine will create significant
economic benefits,” Jeff Bingaman, the New Mexico Democrat who
leads the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said at
the panel’s hearing on the proposal in Washington. “There is
considerable disagreement as to the effect that the development
will have on cultural resources, and to the sites that nearby
Indian tribes consider sacred.”  Shan Lewis, the president of the Inter Tribal Council of
Arizona, told the lawmakers the 20 Indian tribes represented by
the organization oppose the land swap because it includes sites
of cultural significance. They include Devil’s Canyon, Apache
Leap and the Oak Flat campground, he said.  The bill passed in October is H.R. 1904.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  of Melbourne is the world’s largest
mining company, followed by  Vale SA (VALE3) , based in Rio de Janeiro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  