-- Rio Tinto Loses Bid to Challenge Australian Labor Ruling
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-02-10T07:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/rio-tinto-fights-union-gains-with-plea-to-australia-top-court.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  lost a bid to keep
using non-unionized workers in  Western Australia ’s Pilbara
region, a decision a lawyer for the world’s third-biggest mining
company said could affect other companies.  The High Court of Australia today rejected the miner’s
request for a full hearing as it attempted to overturn last
year’s appeal court ruling that invalidated its agreements with
railway workers and could give unions more leverage to represent
other employees.  John West, Rio Tinto’s lawyer, said failure to overturn the
appeal court decision would affect about 3,000 workers who have
contracts with  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and HWE Mining. “Their
agreements have evaporated,” West said. “All someone has to do
now is sue.”  Rio Tinto ’s attempt to stem the influence of unions at its
mines is part of a bigger battle in Australia between labor,
pressing to entrench workers’ bargaining rights, and business,
which claims current laws stifle productivity. The government,
which re-introduced worker safeguards in 2009, is reviewing
legislation, with a three-member panel scheduled to issue a
report by the end of May.  “Five years ago Australia was one of the cheapest places
in the world for us to do business, today it’s one of the most
expensive,” Rio Tinto’s Chief Executive Officer Tom Albanese
said on a conference call yesterday. He said he’s concerned
“about the declining levels of productivity” in Australia.  Seven-Year High  Days lost to strikes in Australia climbed to a seven-year
high in the quarter ended in September as workers at port
operator  Asciano Ltd. (AIO) , BHP Billiton Ltd. and  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) 
stepped up campaigns for greater  job security , higher pay and
improved benefits. The nation’s biggest carrier grounded all its
planes in October to force an end to strikes and work slowdowns.  Rio Tinto said in November that it raised its iron ore
expansion target to meet demand from  China  and plans to spend at
least $14 billion on developing projects this year. On Feb. 8
the company said it and its partners approved a $3.4 billion
expansion of its iron ore operations in Western Australia as
part of a plan to boost output by more than 50 percent.  With a combined workforce in Pilbara of more than 20,000,
Rio Tinto and BHP have avoided strikes by signing contracts with
small groups of non-unionized workers in the region, even as a
growing labor shortage has pushed salaries higher.  Shut Out  “The unions were pretty well shut out,” Brandon Ellem, an
associate professor at the  University of Sydney  and author of
“Hard Ground: Unions in the Pilbara,” said in a phone
interview before today’s decision. The earlier Federal Appeal
Court ruling, “will make it a lot easier,” for workers to
organize, he said.  The  High Court  panel said Rio Tinto’s prospects of winning
a reversal of the appeal court decision were insufficient to
warrant a full hearing.  In the lawsuit at issue, Rio Tinto attempted to categorize
a group of 10 railway workers hired on a specific date as a
separate business unit, which would allow it to negotiate a
contract with them. That contract then applied to all workers
hired after the date.  20 Percent Turnover  The company employs 2,793 people in the rail division and
with an annual turnover rate of about 20 percent the contract
would affect an increasingly larger group of employees,
according to the  Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy
Union . Rio Tinto management unilaterally imposed the contract on
the newly hired workers, said Alex Bukarica, the union’s lawyer.  “It was morally reprehensible what the company did,” he
said in a phone interview before the hearing.  Rio Tinto tried to “dodge its obligation to recognize the
rights of its workers to genuinely collectively bargain for
future pay increases,” CFMEU Mining General Secretary Andrew
Vickers said in a statement today.  “It’s been a long legal battle, but it’s been worth it,”
he said.  The consequences of invalidating the agreement could be
potentially “very serious” for Rio Tinto because the mining
company may be liable for back pay to the workers, said Paul Brown, a partner at  Baker & McKenzie  in Sydney who advises on
employment law.  Union Opportunity  Bukarica said a dismissal of Rio Tinto’s appeal would
create an opportunity for organized labor to take over the
bargaining for miners, truckers and construction workers.  The union has taken the view that it should be “heavily
involved” in the Pilbara region, Bukarica said. It will be up
to the employees to decide whether they want to join the union,
he said.  “The unions are confident they’ll get” similar agreements
at BHP invalidated as well, Ellem said.  Kelly Quirke, a Melbourne-based spokeswoman for BHP,
declined to comment.  Just 159 of the almost 2,800 people Rio Tinto employed at
its railroad at Pilbara were members of the CFMEU. Thousands of
employees chose to join Rio Tinto under the terms and conditions
of the non-union agreements, Greg Lilleyman, president of its
Pilbara operations, said following the appeal court ruling last
year.  Labor Disputes  The number of working days lost to labor disputes rose to
101,300 in the three months ended September, up from 66,200 in
the June quarter according to government data. Statistics for
the quarter ended in December will be released March. 8.  “This is not a case about ideology,” Brown said. “This
is a very technical case about the wording of the statute” and
how business units are defined under the law, with a final
decision likely having little impact on labor relations.  The Business Council of  Australia  has said unions are
“routinely” using the law to gain strategic advantage and has
urged the government to legislate to block them from pushing to
have contractors included in collective bargaining.  “The government believes the Fair Work Act is working
well, but there is always room for improvement,”  Bill Shorten ,
Minister of Workplace Relations, said in announcing the review
in December.  Australia’s Labor Party-led government replaced previous
laws with the act after coming to power in 2007, prohibiting
workers from making individual deals with employers.  “The review represents an important opportunity to have an
evidence-based discussion about the operation of the
legislation,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  