-- Rising Jet Fuel Prices May Curb Demand for EU Carbon, ICF Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-02-09T18:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/rising-jet-fuel-prices-may-curb-demand-for-eu-carbon-icf-says.html
Rising jet fuel prices may trim
airlines’ demand for European Union carbon permits, according to
 ICF International Inc. (ICFI)   Carriers may cut routes that are marginally profitable when
jet fuel prices rise, said Samuel Engel, vice president at  ICF
SH&E , an airline advisory company.  “Higher jet fuel prices are a shock to the economy,” he
said yesterday in an interview at the Aviation Carbon 2012
conference at  Heathrow airport .  The EU expanded its carbon market this year to include
flights into, out of and within the region.  Jet fuel  for
immediate delivery in northwest  Europe  has risen 12 percent to
$1,057.25 a metric ton since Dec. 19, when it fell to a 10-month
low of $948 a ton, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Some airlines will probably cut marginally profitable
short-haul routes because of carbon trading and fuel costs,
Engel said.  AirAsia X Sdn. said Jan. 12 it was cutting 10 weekly
services to  London  and Paris from its hub in  Kuala Lumpur ,
citing costs associated with the European Union emissions
trading system and escalating taxes.  EasyJet Plc Chief Executive Officer Carolyn McCall said the
economic slowdown will foster mergers as weaker airlines find it
“very, very difficult to cope.”  The reduction in capacity resulting from takeovers and
bankruptcies will be “good news for the industry,” McCall said
at an event at the Aviation Club in London. “There’s no
question that there will be more consolidation,” she said.  Lufthansa Plans  Deutsche Lufthansa AG of German currently has no plans to
cutback routes, said Aage Duenhaupt, a spokesman in  Frankfurt .
“There is still a growth plan for this year and we are looking
to expand our business with the opening of a new airport in
Berlin,” he said today by phone.  “Just because  oil prices  are up, it is too simplistic to
say that routes will be closed,” he said. “Since we are
investing in more efficient airplanes, that will make us more
more environmentally friendly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  