-- Rolls-Royce Says Marine Unit Earnings Won’t Grow as Orders Fall
-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 2012-02-09T14:05:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/rolls-royce-profit-rises-on-demand-for-new-engines-repair-work.html
Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/) , the world’s
second-largest aircraft-engine maker, said earnings at its
marine unit won’t grow this year after customers delayed
investment decisions on buying new equipment.  Underlying profit, or earnings excluding currency hedging
and some one-time items, will be “broadly flat” at the marine
division in 2012, and the unit will post a “modest increase”
in sales on that basis, the London-based company said today in a
statement. The order book at the division, which equips the U.S.
Navy’s DDG-1000 Zumwalt Class destroyer, fell 8 percent in 2011.  The forecast for the marine unit contrasts with Rolls-
Royce’s prediction of “good growth” in underlying group
earnings and sales, led by sales of powerplants and services to
planemakers  Airbus SAS (EAD)  and Boeing Co. The company and carmaker
Daimler AG bought German engine manufacturer  Tognum AG (TGM)  last year
to expand in supplying the shipbuilding and energy industries.  “The Marine & Energy guidance, excluding Tognum, are a bit
disappointing, as we expected the original-equipment market
recovery earlier in 2011,” Eric Chadeyras, an analyst at
Natixis Equity Research in Paris, said in a note today. He has a
“neutral” rating on the stock.  Rolls-Royce  fell  as much as 4.6 percent to 749 pence, the
biggest intraday drop since Nov. 1, and was down 3.1 percent at
2:02 p.m. in  London . That pared the stock’s gain this year to
1.9 percent.  Growth in 2011  Net income  jumped  58 percent last year to 850 million
pounds ($1.35 billion). Underlying pretax profit rose 21 percent
to 1.16 billion pounds. Analysts estimated underlying profit at
1.13 billion pounds in a Bloomberg survey.  Underlying revenue increased 4 percent to 11.3 billion
pounds, as gains of 13 percent at the civil-aerospace unit and 5
percent at the defense-aerospace division more than made up for
declines of 12 percent at the marine unit and 3 percent at the
energy business. Last year, about 50 percent of Rolls-Royce’s
revenue came from civil aerospace and 20 percent from the marine
business, with the remainder from military engines and energy.  The group order book increased 5 percent to a record 62.2
billion pounds following an increase in  air travel  and as Airbus
and  Boeing (BA)  sold airliners to carriers upgrading to more fuel-
efficient models and expanding in  emerging markets . Last year’s
profit was boosted a 60 million-pound payment from the U.K.
government for the early cancellation of contracts, including
one for the Harrier jumpjet.  Marine Unit Contracts  Some marine-business orders for original equipment forecast
for the second half didn’t materialize as governments and
companies postponed ship projects, the company said. Contracts
won by the unit included projects to supply 10 U.S. Navy
littoral combat ships, which Rolls-Royce said is its largest-
ever surface-fleet order, and pressurized-water reactor
technology for U.K. nuclear submarines.  “We are encouraged by the order intake as a good lead
indicator,” with new contracts increasing 15 percent last year
to 2.1 billion pounds, Finance Director Mark Morris said today
on a conference call with analysts. “And we are confident the
order book will grow again in 2012 although we continue to
expect to see pricing pressure going forward.  The company’s broad product offering and balance between
selling new equipment and providing maintenance services is
acting as a buffer during the economic slowdown, Chief Executive
Officer John Rishton said on a separate call.  The takeover of Tognum gave Rolls-Royce and Stuttgart,
Germany-based  Daimler (DAI)  access to the world’s second-biggest
manufacturer of high-speed  diesel engines  for the marine, engine
and defense industries after Caterpillar Inc.  Net cash at Rolls-Royce fell to 223 million pounds from
1.53 billion pounds a year earlier following acquisitions.
Morris said he’s ‘‘pleased with the cash performance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  