-- Romanian Cabinet Wins Parliament Approval, Aims to Keep IMF Deal
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-02-09T13:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/romanian-cabinet-wins-parliament-approval-aims-to-keep-imf-deal.html
Romanian lawmakers approved a new
government as Prime Minister Mihai-Razvan Ungureanu pledged to
pursue an international agreement and foster economic growth, a
main condition for possible wage and pension increases.  Lawmakers voted 237-2 today in Bucharest in favor of the
government’s program, which wants to keep the  budget deficit 
within 3 percent of gross domestic product, Vasile Blaga, the
chairman of Romania’s upper Senate house, said. Opposition
deputies boycotted the vote. The ruling coalition, which has a
majority in parliament, faces general elections later this year.  “Our main goal is to consolidate all the good signs of the
measures and reforms that have been undertaken so far and
stimulate economic growth through investments and European fund
absorption,” Ungureanu said before the vote. “We’re also
looking to prudently increase public sector wages and pensions
if the economic conditions allow it.”  Ungureanu, 43, turned to a new generation of politicians to
resuscitate the government’s fortunes after austerity measures,
mandated under a bailout loan, sparked protests that turned
violent last month. Bogdan Dragoi, 31, was named as finance
minister and Lucian Bode, 38, as economy minister, to steer the
Balkan nation’s growth as  Europe ’s debt crisis damps demand for
exports and limits credit flows.  Leu Performance  The Romanian leu, the seventh-worst performer among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg so far this
year, was little changed at 4.3544 per euro as of 2:27 p.m. in
Bucharest. The leu posted two days of losses following the
resignation of the government on Feb. 6. The Bucharest Stock
Exchange’s BET index rose 0.9 percent to 5,073.92.  “The continuation of the IMF and EU agreement and an
increase in the living standards of the population are key
elements of the new government’s program,” Erste Group Bank AG
analysts wrote in a note to clients today before the vote. “We
think that  exchange rate  will hover around present levels for
the duration of 2012.”  Europe’s debt crisis has roiled financial markets, sparked
protests and taken a political toll as well. Former Premier Emil Boc, who resigned on Feb. 6, is among seven European Union
leaders who have already given up power, while Slovakia will
hold snap elections in March.  Romania’s government has pledged to narrow the budget
deficit to 1.9 percent of economic output this year from 4.35
percent in 2011 to meet the terms of the loan accord with the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union.  Regaining Support  The coalition is trying to regain voter support after
accusations of corruption and two years of tax increases and
government spending cuts, including a 25 percent reduction in
public-sector wages, under the IMF-led loan agreement. The
austerity measures prompted the most-violent protests in a more
than a decade, leaving 60 people injured.  The EU said yesterday that  Romania  needs to take “stronger
action” to ensure transparency and revamp its judiciary, though
“progress is visible.”  Romania relied on a 20 billion-euro ($27 billion) loan from
the IMF and the EU from 2009 to 2011 to help it emerge from the
deepest recession on record. The government secured another 5
billion-euro precautionary accord with the lenders to reassure
investors it will keep fiscal discipline ahead of the elections.
It doesn’t plan to draw on the money set aside.  The country’s  economic growth  will probably slow to as low
as 1.5 percent this year, after output grew an estimated 2.5
percent in 2011, on declining exports to western Europe and weak
domestic demand, according to IMF forecasts.  “Our top priority is to ensure economic growth through
investments and European-fund absorption,” Dragoi said
yesterday. “We’ll seek to attract 6 billion euros in European
funds this year, which roughly means about 5 percent of GDP.”  President Traian Basescu nominated Ungureanu on Feb. 6 as a
candidate for premier, hours after his political ally and
Liberal Democrat leader Boc said he was resigning “to ease
political and social pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  