-- Romney’s Returns Refute His Tax Argument: David M. Abromowitz
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   A b r o m o w i t z
-- 2012-02-09T00:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/romney-s-returns-refute-his-tax-argument-commentary-by-david-abromowitz.html
For all the attention devoted to Mitt Romney’s tax returns last month, one element went largely
unnoticed: They directly refute the Republican candidate’s
argument that higher tax rates deter  capital investment .  Simply put, all of the investments made by Bain Capital
LLC, the private-equity company Romney cofounded in 1984 and ran
until 1999, occurred when capital-gains rates were much higher
than they are today. Yet Bain consistently attracted massive
amounts of private capital, and thrived.  Bain’s haul is further evidence that  fair tax rates  don’t
hold back profit-seeking capitalists, at least until those rates
reach a point that no one is proposing. From 1984 until 1999,
the top rates on capital gains -- the profit from investments as
opposed to compensation for work -- were often at 28 percent,
and never lower than 20 percent. Indeed, in 1987, under
President  Ronald Reagan , the 20 percent rate rose to 28 percent
-- a 40 percent increase in potential taxation of Bain
investment profit. (Yes, Reagan did raise taxes, even on
capital.)  An analysis by the  Wall Street Journal  of 77 Bain deals in
that time period showed that the firm “produced about $2.5
billion in gains for its investors,” on about $1.1 billion
invested. Clearly, even with  capital-gains  rates almost double
those today, fund managers such as Romney didn’t lack investors.  No Deterrent  Others can debate whether the private-equity crucible
created more jobs than it destroyed. One thing is certain,
though: Investors signing up for a chance to earn, say, a gross
$10 million profit on a deal weren’t deterred by the prospect
that taxes meant they would only keep a net $7.2 million.  Potential taxes were certainly disclosed to investors, and
figured into the expected rate of return. And individual
investors might have had offsets, such as the carried-forward
losses from other deals reflected in the Romney tax return.  Particularly remarkable is the windfall Romney received
from steep reductions in the capital-gains rate that took place
after most of the deals he oversaw had closed. In 1997, the rate
was cut to 20 percent, from 28 percent. It was reduced to the
current 15 percent in 2003.  No one investing in a private-equity deal in 1990 could
possibly say they anticipated the rate would be only 15 percent
on profit still being paid out in 2010. Applying the reduced
rate to deals previously closed couldn’t possibly be viewed as
an incentive to investors.  At the same time, because these rate cuts were applied
retroactively, the Romney family enjoyed a windfall of about
$600,000 each year in lower taxes paid (assuming the Romneys
received the same $12 million in income from carried interest
and other capital-gains returns since 2001 as they did in 2010).  When multiplied by thousands of similarly situated
taxpayers, this after-the-fact tax-cut windfall contributed
significantly to the  budget deficit , even though its value to
the economy remains dubious, as  numerous analysts  of capital-
gains rate cuts have concluded.  At a time of ballooning federal deficits and frayed social
safety nets, higher capital-gains rates can  contribute 
meaningfully to  deficit reduction  and to helping a middle class
that is struggling to stay afloat, without hampering good
investments in American businesses.  The Romney tax returns vividly illustrate that fair  tax
rates  don’t deter those whom Republicans now routinely call “job
creators” from investing.  As  Warren Buffett  so aptly put it, “I have worked with
investors for 60 years and I have yet to see anyone -- not even
when capital-gains rates were 39.9 percent in 1976-77 -- shy
away from a sensible investment because of the  tax rate  on the
potential gain.”  Conservative commentators will continue to recite their
credo that letting the lower Bush-era tax cuts on capital gains
expire -- and returning to the pre-2001 percent rate of 20
percent -- would kill investment and jobs. It will be hard for
them to ignore the window provided by Romney’s returns into the
real world of private-equity investing and the economy.  (David M. Abromowitz is a senior fellow at the Center for
American Progress Action Fund. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
David M. Abromowitz at  dabromowitz@americanprogress.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  