-- Romney Remains Best Equipped in Primary Even After Three Losses
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-02-09T05:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/romney-remains-best-equipped-in-primary-even-after-three-losses.html
Mitt Romney’s trifecta of losses this
week to  Rick Santorum  exposes lingering questions about his
campaign strategy, his appeal to the Republican conservative
base and his changing positions on such issues as abortion
rights and immigration.  That doesn’t mean he won’t win his party’s presidential
nomination.  With 15 primaries and caucuses scheduled during the next
month, Santorum and Romney’s two other rivals in the Republican
race have yet to show they can turn momentum into the millions
of dollars needed to run simultaneous campaigns across the
country. So far, only Romney has the money and manpower for the
long haul -- even though he’s won fewer than half of the eight
contests that began with the lead-off Iowa caucuses on Jan. 3.  Following Santorum’s Feb. 7 victories in Colorado, Missouri
and  Minnesota , Romney supporters remained confident that victory
for the former Massachusetts governor was just a few weeks away.  “I don’t think anybody but Romney can be, will be, or
should be our nominee,” said Fred Malek, a Republican
fundraiser who has helped raise money for Romney. “We’ve had
flavor of the month and Santorum is the new flavor, but I think
Romney will prevail.”  Cash Advantage  Romney ended 2011 with $20 million in his campaign bank
account, compared to $2.1 million for former U.S. House Speaker
 Newt Gingrich , $1.9 million for U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of
 Texas , and $278,935 for Santorum, according to Federal Election
Commission reports. Restore Our Future, a group run by Romney
backers, had an additional $23.6 million at the end of the year.  That financial strength gives Romney the capability to
advertise heavily and cripple any of his rivals.  Before  Florida ’s Jan. 31 primary, Romney and his allies
overwhelmed Gingrich with television ads attacking his record
and character, outspending him more than 6-to-1, according to
New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, a firm that tracks the
commercials. Romney won the primary by 14 percentage points.  With Santorum on the rise, Romney is redirecting his
campaign firepower.  Speaking in Atlanta yesterday, he cast Santorum, a former
U.S. senator from  Pennsylvania , and Gingrich as big-spending
Washington insiders.  “Senator Santorum and Speaker Gingrich, they are the very
Republicans who acted like Democrats,” Romney said. “And when
Republicans act like Democrats, they lose.”  Arizona, Michigan  Romney’s competitors have most of the rest of this month to
try to upend Romney in contests in which he is favored: Feb. 28
primaries in  Arizona  and  Michigan (STOMI1) . Those contests will garner
more attention than this week’s trio because of the size of
 Michigan , the nation’s eighth most populous state, and Arizona,
the 16th.  Romney has advantages in both states. Born in Michigan, he
was raised in a Detroit suburb and his father, George, served as
the state’s governor.
 In Arizona, his get-tough stance on illegal immigration should
help in a state where Republican officials passed a new measure
that gives law enforcement officers wider latitude to identify
non-residents. The measure is being challenged by President
Barack Obama’s administration. Arizona also has a sizable Mormon
population, whose members tend to vote in high numbers for
Romney, a prominent member of the church.  Santorum’s Stand  Santorum said yesterday on  MSNBC ’s “Morning Joe” program
that he would seek to make a stand in Michigan and try to exceed
expectations in that state. The state combines a working-class
constituency and a large Catholic population that could make it
receptive to his persona and his focus on such issues as banning
abortion.  Michigan also will allocate its convention delegates
proportionally, meaning candidates that don’t finish first can
gain some, while Arizona is a winner-take-all contest.  Santorum, Gingrich and Paul all are looking ahead to Super
Tuesday -- March 6, when 11 primary and caucuses will be held --
as an opportunity to accrue delegates through the proportional
allotment of delegates.  In interviews yesterday, Santorum expressed confidence that
his wins this week would give his candidacy an infusion of cash.  “I think last night we raised a quarter of a million
dollars on-line,” Santorum said on CNN. “We are going to have
the money we need to make the case we want to make.”  Gingrich’s Focus  Gingrich committed limited resources to Feb. 7’s three
contests, none of which allocated any of the 1,144 delegates
needed to win the nomination. On the day of the votes, he
campaigned in  Ohio , site of a Super Tuesday primary. He also
will focus on the March 6 primary in  Georgia , his home state.  Gingrich and Santorum failed to meet the qualification
requirements to appear on Virginia’s Super Tuesday primary
ballot, so that’s one state where they won’t compete and Romney
will square-off solely against Paul.  The dueling Santorum and Gingrich strategies could help
Romney by continuing to divide the bloc of social and fiscal
conservatives who have yet to rally around his candidacy.  Romney led with 35 percent in the most recent national
Gallup  poll  of Republican voters conducted Jan. 30 through Feb.
3, followed by Gingrich at 24 percent, Santorum at 16 percent
and Paul at 12 percent.  Since 1976, the Republican candidate who led in Gallup’s
first polling in February has always gone on to win the party’s
nomination, the polling company based in Princeton,  New Jersey ,
said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
 John McCormick  in Washington at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  