-- Romney Targets Santorum for Attacks Following 3-State Wipeout
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2012-02-09T21:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/romney-attacks-santorum-as-insider-after-three-state-wipeout.html
Two  Oklahoma  state officials
supporting Mitt Romney’s Republican presidential bid held their
fire today on a conference call arranged by the candidate’s
campaign and billed as an attack on rival  Rick Santorum .  “I think he’s a fine man,” Oklahoma State Auditor Gary
Jones said of Santorum, who revived his campaign with a sweep of
three contests this week in the Republican race. “He would be a
tremendous improvement over  Barack Obama .”  Oklahoma State Treasurer Ken Miller said Santorum, a former
U.S. senator from  Pennsylvania , is a “fine man and friend.”  The Romney campaign had said in a release yesterday
promoting the call that it would feature Jones and Miller
discussing Santorum’s “enthusiastic defense of earmarks and
support of reckless spending.”  Neither man mentioned Santorum’s record or earmarks, the
federal funding of a lawmaker’s pet project, though both said
they thought Romney was the best candidate.  Romney’s campaign organized the call as Santorum campaigned
in Oklahoma after he won Missouri’s non-binding primary and
caucuses in  Minnesota  and Colorado, all on Feb. 7.  Insider Attack  Romney, whose front-runner status in the nomination race
was shaken by the results, yesterday berated Santorum as a long-
time  Washington  insider and lumped him with former U.S. House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich . The former  Massachusetts  governor
compared both Santorum and Gingrich with Obama, saying all three
lacked experience in the “real economy.”  Santorum and Gingrich “spent a lot of time in Washington
and during that time they spent a lot more money than they took
in,” Romney, who has stressed his experience as a private
equity executive, said in Atlanta,  Georgia .  On the campaign conference call today, Miller and Jones
said they thought Romney was best qualified to improve the  U.S.
economy  and control  government spending . Miller said he’s
supporting Romney because the country needs “a strong
turnaround specialist” and “chief executive” as president.  “He’s the best man for the job,” Jones said.  A Romney campaign spokeswoman didn’t immediately respond to
requests for comment on the conference call.  Romney-Santorum Ticket?  Jones, in a later telephone interview, said he wasn’t
interested in “running down Senator Santorum” while he
promotes Romney’s candidacy.  “On a personal note, I think that Senator Santorum is a
fine man and personally wouldn’t mind seeing a Romney-Santorum
ticket,” Jones said. “Stranger things have happened, and I
think that would be a fantastic combination.”  Oklahoma holds a primary on March 6, so-called Super
Tuesday when 11 nomination contests are held.  Santorum earlier today praised supporters in  Oklahoma City 
for their conservative values and said he is the best candidate
to take on Obama. Romney can’t effectively oppose Obama’s
health-care legislation because a law he signed in Massachusetts
was so similar to the federal measure, Santorum said.  Romney “is uniquely disqualified to make that case”
against the health-care overhaul Obama pushed through Congress,
Santorum said.  Final Returns  In final returns from this week’s contests, Santorum ran 30
percentage points ahead of second-place finisher Romney in
 Missouri  and beat him by 5 points in Colorado. In Minnesota,
final results showed U.S. Representative Ron Paul of  Texas  in
second place, 18 points behind Santorum and 10 points ahead of
Romney. Gingrich, who wasn’t on the Missouri ballot, ran fourth
in Minnesota and third in  Colorado (BEESCO) , 1 point ahead of Paul.  Santorum now has four victories in the nomination race to
three for Romney and one for Gingrich.  “We definitely are the campaign right now with the
momentum,” Santorum said yesterday on  CNN . “We’re doing very,
very well raising money.”  Santorum campaigned yesterday in Texas, which holds its
primary April 3. Stopping at a chapel in McKinney, he referred
to his also-ran status in the Republican race before his
victories this week, telling a group of area pastors: “The gift
of being underestimated is a wonderful gift.”  As Romney arrived in Georgia yesterday, he expressed
confidence in his campaign’s future and sought to discount
Santorum’s wins.  ‘Aggressive’ Competing  “We think we can beat Senator Santorum where we compete
head to head in an aggressive way, and we obviously didn’t do
that in  Colorado  or  Minnesota (BEESMN) ,” he told reporters.  Romney won both states in his failed 2008 bid for the
Republican nomination.  This week’s results highlighted Romney’s difficulty in
gaining support from conservative Republicans who are focused on
issues such as banning abortion. At the same time, Santorum’s
new strength may aid Romney in a drawn-out nomination fight. A
revitalized Santorum campaign and Gingrich may keep splitting
the anti-Romney vote.  Romney had been the clear front-runner in the race after
easily winning  Florida ’s Jan. 31 primary and Nevada’s Feb. 4
caucuses.  Gingrich didn’t mention Santorum or Romney by name during
a speech yesterday at Jergens Inc., a closely held company in
Cleveland that manufactures products such as specialty
fasteners. Gingrich also spent Feb. 7 in  Ohio , which has begun
early voting ahead of its Super Tuesday primary.  “We’re in the race all the way,” he said on CNN.  In a chat with a Georgia talk radio host, he deflected a
question about his poor showing in the Feb. 7 votes.  “It was a really bad day for  Mitt Romney ,” Gingrich told
Rusty Humphries. “He’s the guy that’s supposed to be gathering
up all these delegates. He took a drubbing yesterday.”  Romney, Santorum and Gingrich are to address activists
tomorrow at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference
in Washington. The reception they receive will be closely
monitored, especially following the Missouri, Minnesota and
Colorado results.  Paul declined a speaking invitation from the group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net ;
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  