-- Rupee Going to Worst From First as Trade Deficit at Record: India Credit
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2012-02-09T04:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/rupee-going-to-worst-from-first-as-trade-deficit-at-record-india-credit.html
India’s record trade deficit may turn
developing  Asia ’s best-performing currency into its biggest
loser from now until the year-end, strategists forecast,
weighing on the nation’s bonds.  The  trade shortfall  widened to $133 billion in the nine
months ended December, government data showed on Feb. 1. The
rupee will drop 1.2 percent in the rest of 2012, based on the
median prediction of 22 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. That is
the worst outlook among the region’s 10 most-traded currencies
excluding the Japanese yen.  While the rupee climbed 7.5 percent this year, waning
optimism for the currency may damp investment in the local  bond
market , where global funds have trimmed  holdings  by $200 million
from an unprecedented $29.5 billion on Jan. 24. The  yield  on
benchmark 10-year notes has increased 10 basis points to 8.24
percent since the release of the trade data, after declining the
most in 20 months in January.  “ India  has been the recipient of short-term flows based on
positive risk sentiment, but fundamentally nothing has
changed,” Gordon Rodrigues, a Hong Kong-based investment
director at HSBC Global Asset Management, a unit of  Europe ’s
biggest bank that oversees $25 billion of Asian fixed-income
assets, said in an interview on Feb. 6. “There are still
concerns about the current account.”  Median Forecast  The rupee’s advance this year has been spurred by capital
inflows, helping the currency rebound after declining 16 percent
in 2011, the most in three years. Global funds have raised their
holdings of rupee-denominated debt securities by $3.3 billion
and those of local shares by $3.5 billion, according to the
Securities & Exchange Board of India.  The currency, which dropped 0.5 percent to 49.3850 per
dollar today, will fall to 50 by the end of 2012, according to
the median forecast in the survey.  China ’s yuan will advance 2.9
percent in the rest of the year,  Brazil ’s real will appreciate
1.3 percent and  Russia ’s ruble will drop 3.6 percent,
strategists predict.  The  gap  in the current account, a broad measure of trade
flows, will widen in the year ending March, Chakravarthy
Rangarajan, chairman of the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory
Council, told reporters in New Delhi last month. The deficit may
widen to 3.5 percent of gross domestic product from 2.6 percent
in the prior 12 months, causing the rupee to weaken 5 percent by
end-March, according to Citigroup Inc.  Energy Prices  Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and commodity prices will
determine whether the deficit will worsen this year, according
to Nomura Holdings Inc.,  Japan ’s biggest brokerage. The European
Union bought almost 19 percent of the South Asian nation’s
exports last year and was its largest trading partner, according
to  data  from India’s Department of Commerce.  Crude-oil prices have risen 13.9 percent to $98.76 a barrel
in  New York  in the past 12 months, pushing up India’s import
bill. The nation is the world’s fourth-biggest oil consumer and
relies on overseas markets for almost 80 percent of its fuel
requirements.  “The main risk for the current account is the weakening of
European growth as Indian exports will go down very sharply,”
 Sonal Varma , a Mumbai-based economist at Nomura Holdings, said
in an interview on Feb. 6. “The second risk is from global
commodity prices: if they pick up, it would significantly worsen
the deficit.”  She predicts the shortfall will widen to 3.1 percent of
GDP.  Bonds Underperform  The government’s 10-year bonds were little changed today,
with the yield on the benchmark 8.79 percent securities due in
November 2021 at 8.24 percent, the highest level in more than a
week. The yield on the 10-year note fell 30 basis points in
January, the most since May 2010. Rupee notes due in a decade
 yield  623 basis points more than comparable U.S. Treasuries, 9
basis points wider than this year’s low.  The increase in yields this month is crimping returns for
investors in rupee-denominated securities. India’s notes
advanced 1.7 percent in 2012, according to Asian local-currency
debt markets monitored by HSBC Holdings Plc. Investors in
Indonesian bonds got 7.4 percent and those in the  Philippines 
earned 2.8 percent.  Efforts by the central bank to regulate foreign-exchange
inflows will support the rupee, according to Westpac Banking
Corp.,  Australia ’s second-biggest lender. The  Reserve Bank  of
India, which in December reduced the amount of open positions
dealers can maintain overnight, has begun relaxing the
requirement, according to Deputy Governor H.R. Khan. Banks can
apply to the monetary authority to ease their currency
positions, Khan told reporters in Mumbai on Feb. 6.  ‘Net Positive’  “The Indian economy is still reliant on foreign funding
because of the current-account deficit, so any alleviation of
that pressure would be good,”  Jonathan Cavenagh , a Singapore-
based currency strategist at Westpac, said in an interview on
Feb. 7. “The RBI doesn’t want to be encouraging speculation in
the rupee market, but anything that eases liquidity pressures,
which is what this move is designed to do, should be seen as a
net positive for the rupee.”  Investor perception of India’s bond risk is being
influenced by the rupee’s movements. The cost of protecting the
debt of  State Bank  of India, which some investors consider a
proxy for the nation, fell 63 basis points last month as the
currency advanced 7.3 percent, according to CMA, which is owned
by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
privately negotiated markets.  ‘Jury Still Out’  The cost of credit-default swaps was little changed at 290
on Feb. 8. The swaps pay face value in exchange for the
underlying debt should a company fail to adhere to its
agreements.  India’s current-account deficit tends to have an impact on
the rupee during times of “stress,” according to Citigroup.
The  shortfall  has increased every year since 2007, surging
almost fivefold to $44.4 billion last year from $9.8 billion
four years ago, according to government data.  “The rupee’s recent appreciation has been on the back of a
recovery in risk appetite and increased global liquidity,”
Patrick Perret-Green, the Singapore-based head of foreign-
exchange and rates strategy at Citigroup, said in an interview
yesterday. “Have domestic fundamentals improved from when the
rupee tumbled last year? The jury’s still out on that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  