-- Rush to Open Sept. 11 Memorial Cost $500 Million, Port Authority Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-02-09T21:26:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/rush-for-9-11-memorial-cost-500m-agency.html
Accelerating and redesigning World
Trade Center projects so the Sept. 11 memorial could open by the
10th anniversary of the attacks cost about $500 million, a  Port
Authority  of New York and New Jersey commissioner said.  The mass-transit terminal and subsurface infrastructure had
to be “resequenced and accelerated” to meet the 2011 deadline,
Vice Chairman Scott Rechler said in an interview today. The cost
of those two projects, part of the almost $15 billion
redevelopment of the Lower Manhattan site, has risen by $977
million since November 2008, according to an  audit  released Feb.
7. A majority of that increase was due to the rush to complete
the memorial garden, Rechler said.  The specifications for the transit hub, designed by Spanish
architect  Santiago Calatrava , were only 70 percent complete when
the project was bid, Rechler said. The decision to move ahead
with incomplete plans was part of the “political and patriotic
mission that was put in front of the Port Authority,” he said.  “At 70 percent complete, you know you’re going to have
cost overruns,” he said. “This is one of the most complex
construction jobs in the country, if not the world.”  Rechler and authority Chairman David Samson today spoke to
reporters before a board meeting, two days after the release of
the audit. Ordered by New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  and New
Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  in August, the financial review
showed the entire project could cost as much as $14.8 billion,
up from $11 billion estimated in 2008.  ‘Challenged and Dysfunctional’  The audit called the agency, which oversees the
metropolitan area’s airports, shipping terminals and interstate
bridges and tunnels, “a challenged and dysfunctional
organization” with $19.5 billion in debt and growing.  New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg yesterday said not
opening the memorial by the anniversary would have been an
“embarrassment around the world,” and that “the Port
Authority had to deliver.”  Most of the increase to $14.8 billion isn’t due to cost
overruns, Samson said. The reason is that the authority took on
jobs, including the memorial and subway and security
improvements that are supposed to be paid for by third parties,
including the city, the  Metropolitan Transportation Authority 
and the National Sept. 11 Memorial & Museum Foundation. The net
cost to the authority rose by $1.7 billion to about $7.7
billion, the report said.  That $1.7 billion increase includes $537 million for the
transit hub and $440 million for the infrastructure, the audit
said.  The cost of 1 World Trade Center, the 1,776-foot tower
slated for completion next year, was estimated in the audit to
cost $3.9 billion, a 27 percent jump from the $3.1 billion
estimate the authority made in 2008. Some of that is because the
earlier projection didn’t include leasing commission and tenant
fit-out costs, the commissioners said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  