-- Russia Said Preparing Tax Exemptions for Eurobond Payments
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2012-02-09T16:56:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/russia-said-to-prepare-law-on-eurobonds-payment-tax-exemptions.html
Russia ’s government is discussing a
law that may save companies from retroactive tax claims on
interest payments for existing Eurobonds, said a Kremlin
official familiar with the plans.  The government is discussing a law to exempt companies from
paying a 20 percent withholding tax on Eurobond coupon payments
to non-residents via offshore entities, known as SPVs, the
person said, declining to be identified before a draft is ready,
which may be in two to three weeks.  Russia will find a mutually acceptable system for tax
payments on Eurobonds, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said
today, after businesses and investors expressed concern that a
levy may increase corporate borrowing costs and discourage
issuance. Moody’s Investors Service estimates the existing 20
percent withholding tax, if enforced, may cost Russian companies
$1.5 billion.  “We’re ready to meet halfway with the business community
and create the most comfortable regime for Eurobond sales,”
Siluanov said today in Moscow at a meeting of the nation’s big-
business lobby, the Russian Union of Industrialists and
Entrepreneurs, known as the RSPP.  Bond-Coupon Levy  The  Finance Ministry  is preparing legislation clarifying
the existing bond-coupon levy, which hasn’t often been imposed
on issuers. The plan would exempt debt holders from countries
that have a double taxation agreement with Russia, while
Eurobonds sold before Jan. 1, 2012 may get a tax break,
according to a Jan. 27 statement from the ministry.  Economy Minister  Elvira Nabiullina  said Feb. 3 that she had
“big doubts” about applying the tax.  The authorities are planning a meeting this week with
investors and consultants to seek a “solution that satisfies
all sides,” Siluanov said.  OAO  Transneft (TRNF) , the state-controlled oil pipeline operator,
said last month it might buy back about $4 billion of
outstanding Eurobond after receiving a preliminary bill from the
Federal Tax Service for more than 2 billion rubles ($66
million).  The government may back away from the tax once it considers
the possible increase in borrowing costs for Russian companies,
Kathleen Middlemiss, head of  Europe ,  Middle East  and Africa
corporate credit research at UBS in  London .  “The Russian corporates who are the most frequent issuers
are the quasi-sovereigns, so it doesn’t make sense for the
government,” Middlemiss said by phone yesterday. “They’d be
cutting off their nose to spite their face.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  