-- Russia’s Micex Index Slides to Week-Low; Rosneft Shares Retreat
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-02-09T15:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/russia-stocks-rise-second-day-on-oil-gain-greek-debt-wagers.html
Russian stocks  fell, pushing the
benchmark gauge to its lowest level in a week as investors bet
previous gains were overdone and the nation’s biggest oil
producer tumbled for a fourth day.  The 30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  dropped 0.9 percent to 1,541.64 by
the close in Moscow, its weakest since Feb. 2 after sliding as
much as 1.4 percent.  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , the country’s largest oil
company, sank 2.2 percent after banks including Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG cut their recommendations. The
dollar-denominated RTS Index dropped 0.3 percent to 1,638.09.  Russian stocks pared losses after European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said Greek party leaders had reached an
agreement on austerity measures needed to obtain a bailout. The
Micex climbed to its strongest level in six months on Feb. 2 as
Urals crude,  Russia ’s main export oil blend, topped $114 a
barrel.  “Russia has looked stretched on technicals for a few
sessions now so the temptation to book some profits is almost
irresistible,” Julian Rimmer, a trader of Russian shares at CF
Global Trading in  London , said in an e-mail. “ Greece  has been a
fly in the ointment for several days, but unless negotiations
are aborted completely then as an issue it’s not capable of
derailing equity markets in isolation.”  The Micex is up 10 percent this year and trades at 5.7
times analysts’ earnings estimates for member companies.  The gauge retreated 17 percent in 2011, compared with an 18
percent drop for  Brazil ’s Bovespa index, which is valued at 10.5
times estimated earnings according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Shanghai Composite Index trades at 9.7 times
estimated earnings, and the BSE India Sensitive Index has a
ratio of 15.8.  Rosneft, VTB Fall  Rosneft had its longest losing streak since October after
Goldman cut the state-run company to “neutral” from “buy,”
citing weak free  cash flow  and increasing capital expenditures
in a note today. The stock was cut to “hold” from “buy” at
Troika, Deutsche Bank and UBS AG earlier this week.  Shares of VTB Group, Russia’s second-biggest lender, slid
1.4 percent to 6.896 kopeks, a two-week low. Starting next
month, the bank will buy back shares from investors who
participated in the lender’s 2007 initial public offering at the
IPO price of 13.6 kopeks a share, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
said today.  “We didn’t force the bank to do this,” he said. “This
really was the management’s independent decision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  