-- Samsung Life Insurance Sees Opportunity in Europe, U.S. Distressed Assets
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-02-09T23:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/samsung-life-insurance-sees-opportunity-in-europe-u-s-distressed-assets.html
Samsung Life Insurance Co. (032830) ,  South
Korea ’s biggest insurer, said it sees investment opportunities
in distressed assets put up for sale by U.S. and European banks.  Samsung Life resumed investing overseas in the second half
of 2011 after “near-zero” investment since the 2008 global
financial crisis, Koo Sung Hoon, head of investments at the
insurer which has 153.9 trillion won ($138 billion) of assets,
said in an interview on Feb. 8 in Seoul. It may invest $100
million to $200 million in funds that buy distressed property, 
equities and debt in the two regions this year, Koo said.  “Conservative asset management has left us with sufficient
capital, and now we’re looking for bargains,” he said.  Declining bond yields last year, as international investors
sought the perceived safety of Korean debt, have contributed to
local companies looking offshore for opportunities. The Korean
Teachers’ Credit Union may put 30 billion won in a U.S. non-
performing asset fund this year, while Korea Asset Management
Corp. is considering buying these types of assets as part of a
long-term plan to expand overseas, the two organizations said in
separate interviews last month.  Samsung Life won’t be “aggressively” expanding overseas
though, Koo said, as he expects  Europe ’s debt crisis to persist
throughout this year.  “We are concerned about further downside risks triggered
by the crisis,” he said. The insurer gained an annualized 4.5
percent from its asset management last year though November,
according to the  Korea Life Insurance Association.   Yields Drop  South Korea’s average sovereign  yields  dropped 44 basis
points last year to 3.74 percent, according to data compiled by
HSBC Holdings Plc. The rate rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 3.75 percent on Feb. 8. Exports fell last
month for the first time in more than two years while  factory
output  expanded in December at the slowest pace since October
2009, government figures show.  Koo said he expects the  Bank of Korea  to hold benchmark
rates this year to support growth. “Macroeconomic situations
suggest there could be up to a 50 basis point cut this year but
the policy makers’ concern about inflation would prevent
changes.” The central bank held off raising  borrowing costs  for
an eighth month yesterday.  The yield difference between  three-  and  10-year  sovereign
bonds will stay close for the next two to three years on
increased demand for longer-dated bonds, Koo said. The spread
between the two securities was 38 basis points on Feb. 8,
compared with 107 basis points at the beginning of last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  