-- Sarkozy Vows to Keep EDF Nuclear Plant Open, Defying Rival
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-02-09T13:48:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/sarkozy-vows-to-keep-edf-nuclear-plant-open-defying-rival-1-.html
France ’s President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
vowed to keep the Fessenheim nuclear plant open after  Francois Hollande , his Socialist Party rival in an election starting in
April, promised to close the site because of safety concerns.  “I will never accept the closing of Fessenheim for
political reasons,” Sarkozy said on a visit to the station in
eastern France on the Rhine river across from  Germany . “Closing
it would be a scandal. It would be to the detriment of our
industry, to the detriment of our economic independence.”  The fate of Electricite de France SA’s Fessenheim divides
Sarkozy, seeking re-election amid weak poll ratings by  pledging 
to guide the economy through the euro-region crisis, from
Socialists who aim to cut French dependence on atomic power.
EDF’s fleet of 58 nuclear reactors are needed to provide cheap
power for households and industry, according to the president.  Critics of atomic power have increased their demands for
development plans to be rolled back and older stations to be
closed since the Fukushima nuclear meltdown in  Japan  last year.
After protests in Germany,  Chancellor Angela Merkel  decided to
phase out atomic power and has already closed eight reactors.
Switzerland and Italy are also backing away from nuclear.  France is more reliant on nuclear energy than any country.
EDF’s reactors, on average 25 years old, provide about three-
quarters of electricity produced in the country. Fessenheim’s
two reactors began operating in 1977 and 1978. As power demand
reached a record two days ago because of a cold snap in  Europe ,
63 percent of power used at the peak was atomic, France said.  ‘Not for Ideology’  “If I had had any doubts as to the safety of this plant,
I’d have had no hesitation to close it,” Sarkozy said today.
“But if you are going to close a nuclear plant, it has to be
for safety reasons, not for ideology.” French households pay
half as much for energy as German families, he said.  Socialists and Greens agreed last year on a common platform
to shut 24 nuclear reactors by 2025, which the government said
would be costly and raise power prices. Hollande has since said
he would reduce dependence on atomic power to 50 percent by
2025, without specifying how many reactors would be shut.  EDF is the biggest nuclear operator and plans to export its
technology to  China  and the U.K. The industry, also including
 Areva SA (AREVA) , employs an estimated 200,000 people in France.  About 600 million euros ($800 million) had been spent in
the past five years to improve French reactors, Sarkozy said,
adding he would keep investing in nuclear. Replacing output at
Fessenheim would cost 400 million euros a year or mean covering
the local Alsace region with 2,500  wind turbines , he said.  France’s atomic safety authority has ordered EDF and other
atomic operators to carry out billions of euros of measures to
bolster defenses against extreme situations such as the
earthquake and tsunami that caused the Fukushima catastrophe.  The watchdog told EDF it can run Unit 1 at Fessenheim for
another decade if its base concrete is reinforced and an
alternative cooling source installed. EDF says work has begun.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  