-- Scene Last Night: Goldman Sachs Gives, Models, Stars at Amfar
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-02-09T16:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/scene-last-night-goldman-sachs-gives-woody-allen-models-stars-at-amfar.html
Attendance at the Amfar benefit last
night at Cipriani  Wall Street  showed the organization’s base of
support in the fashion, beauty and entertainment industries.  Woody Allen , nominated for several Academy Awards for
“Midnight in Paris,” stuck close to Mathilde Krim, founding
chairman of the American Foundation for AIDS Research.  Rocker Debbie Harry sat with John Demsey, who oversees the
M.A.C. Viva Glam brand, the event’s presenting sponsor.  Heidi Klum, Cindy Crawford,  Rose Byrne , and  Julianne Moore 
were some of the beauties scattered about.  And in the center of the room -- the prime spot for taking
in the performances by Janelle Monae and Theophilus  London  --
were the folks from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , whose partners
last year gave $1 million to the organization.  The donations followed a speech at Goldman by Kevin Frost,
Amfar’s chief executive officer.  “I invited Kevin to come to the trading floor, right at
market close,” Marty Chavez, a Goldman Sachs partner, said. “I
told him we had an ADD crowd, to use as many numbers as possible
and that he only had 15 minutes.”  Chavez, an Amfar board member, then followed with “the
ask,” sending an e-mail with a link to the company’s intranet.  “It took you to the page where you put in the amount you
want to give,” Chavez said. “It was the easiest thing.”  Goldman Gives  Partners made their donations through Goldman Sachs Gives,
the firm’s donor-advised fund. As Chavez explained, Goldman
Sachs partners receive an allocation to direct to Goldman Sachs
Gives.  “You can’t direct it to just anything,” Chavez said. The
fund has four focus areas: honoring service and veterans;
building and stabilizing communities (under which the Amfar
donation fell); increasing educational opportunities; and
creating jobs and economic growth.  Frost recalled the talk.  “Marty gave me 15 minutes to tell people what I believe
in,” he said. “I believe with the right investments, and the
right political will, we can cure AIDS in our lifetime. It’s not
a pipe dream, it’s what the science says.”  Frost noted that a research grant costs $150,000.  “Right now we only fund half of what scores as fundable,”
Frost said. “So we’re leaving 50 percent on the shelf.”  Colleen Foster, a Goldman Sachs partner, was one of the
people on the trading floor that afternoon.  “We are exposed to many world-class organizations,”
Foster said. “Amfar was the most compelling, inspiring
presentation I attended. You really got a sense of the impact.
And they were very approachable, very real.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 