-- SEC Backs Away From Real-Time Data in Market Tracking System
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-02-09T21:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/sec-backs-away-on-real-time-reports-for-consolidated-audit-trail.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  is backing away from a
proposal to require live reporting of trading data as part of
the agency’s planned market-surveillance system.  “The chairman believes, based on the comments received,
that very substantial benefits of a consolidated audit trail can
be achieved at this point without incurring the costs and risks
of real-time reporting,”  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said
today in a statement.  Schapiro hasn’t scheduled a vote on the audit trail, which
the SEC says would help track the cause of disruptions such as
the May 6, 2010, market plunge that erased $862 billion from
equities in less than 20 minutes before prices rebounded.  Later that month, the SEC proposed building the audit trail
-- a multibillion-dollar centralized data hub that would capture
“customer and order event information” as it happens. The
real-time reporting idea was faulted by the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, as well as brokerages and exchanges that
expressed concern over the plan’s cost, which the SEC initially
estimated at $4 billion to build and $2.1 billion a year to
maintain.  The SEC currently keeps tabs on the markets using data
terminals from outside firms. It took three months to gather
trading data for the May 2010 plunge because the information
didn’t exist in a uniform or accessible format from exchanges
and securities firms. The new system would initially include
data on stocks and later options, corporate and municipal bonds,
and credit-default swaps, according to the SEC.  ‘Stated Goals’  “Reviewing real-time data doesn’t reflect how the markets
work, such as the various processes that are tied to the end of
the day,” said Heather Traeger, a former SEC lawyer who is now
at  O’Melveny & Myers LLP . “Plus, real-time data is unnecessary
to achieve the commission’s stated goals in implementing a
consolidated audit trail,” Traeger said in an interview.  U.S. Senate Republicans including  Richard Shelby  of  Alabama 
and  Mike Crapo  of  Idaho  sent Schapiro a letter last month asking
why she was pursuing a real-time audit trail instead of Finra’s
cheaper alternative. The seven lawmakers asked her in a Jan. 30
letter whether the agency had studied the benefits of
“receiving less-accurate and less-complete data on a real-time
basis compared to receiving more-accurate and more-complete data
on a slightly delayed basis.”  $125 Million Program  Finra’s proposal would cost no more than $125 million to
build and a maximum of $40 million annually for equities data,
the regulatory organization told the SEC in a  letter  in April.
Finra, based in  Washington , oversees almost 4,500 brokers and
conducts surveillance for exchanges that account for four-fifths
of U.S. equity trading.  NYSE Euronext,  Scottrade Inc. ,  Wells Fargo & Co.  and the
 Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association  told the
SEC in comment letters about the audit trail that collecting
real-time information will be too costly and data available at
the end of the day or the next should be sufficient. Once the
SEC finalizes what it wants, Finra and the exchanges would have
90 days to propose an implementation plan.  “There are decisions the SEC can take to make the cost
much less burdensome without really sacrificing the
effectiveness and usefulness of the audit trail,” said Howard Kramer, a former SEC associate director who works for Wilkie,
Farr & Gallagher LLP in Washington. “Most market participants
agree it’s needed. I think they’re willing to bear some expense,
but it shouldn’t be needlessly costly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  