-- SEC to Consider Settlement With Ex-Bear Stearns’ Managers
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-02-09T22:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/sec-to-consider-settlement-with-ex-bear-stearns-managers.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is considering a proposed settlement with two former
 Bear Stearns Cos. (2942331Q)  portfolio managers to resolve a case that has
been pursued by federal securities regulators for more than
three years, three people familiar with the matter said.  Ralph Cioffi  and  Matthew Tannin , who managed the Wall
Street firm’s two largest hedge funds, are scheduled to stand
trial on Feb. 13 over SEC civil claims that they deceived their
own investors about their funds’ subprime mortgage exposure,
causing losses of about $1.6 billion when the funds collapsed in
July 2007. SEC commissioners were scheduled to vote on a
proposed agreement in a closed meeting today, the people said
without providing details of the deal.  Cioffi and Tannin gained attention in November 2009 when a
federal court jury found them not guilty in a related criminal
trial, the first stemming from a U.S. probe of the collapse of
the subprime-mortgage market. Cioffi, 56, was senior portfolio
manager for the funds and Tannin, 50, was chief operating
officer.  The  hedge funds  filed for bankruptcy in July 2007 after
collateralized debt obligations linked to risky home loans began
to sour. Bear Stearns collapsed less than a year later and was
purchased by New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co .  The two men misrepresented the funds’ deteriorating
condition and the level of investor redemption requests as they
sought to bring in new money and keep existing investors from
withdrawing funds, the SEC said in its complaint. They also
exaggerated their own investments in the funds while using their
personal stakes as a selling point, the SEC said.  Contested Claims  Cioffi and Tannin have contested the SEC’s claims for more
than three years in U.S. District Court in  Brooklyn ,  New York .
They argued in a December filing that, under a  U.S. Supreme
Court (1000L)  ruling involving  Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS) , they can’t be
held liable for alleged misstatements in monthly reports to
investors because they only assisted in preparing the documents.  The Janus decision in June of last year said a person must
have ultimate authority or control over misstatements to be held
liable for them.  In the criminal trial, prosecutors highlighted e-mails they
said showed Cioffi and Tannin touting the funds while bemoaning
their failure privately. The jury took nine hours to find the
two men not guilty on all six criminal counts. After the
verdict, some jurors said the two men may have been genuinely
optimistic about the funds’ prospects and that prosecutors had
cherry-picked parts of the messages that appeared incriminating.  The proposed settlement being weighed by SEC commissioners
today would still need to be approved by U.S. District Judge
Frederic Block in Brooklyn.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment, as did
Nina Beattie, an attorney for Tannin at Brune & Richard LLP.
Phone calls to and Edward Little and Marc Weinstein, lawyers for
Cioffi at Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP, weren’t immediately
returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  