-- SEC Audit System for Stock Trading Won’t Be Real Time, WSJ Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-02-09T01:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/sec-audit-system-for-stock-trading-won-t-be-real-time-wsj-says.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is reversing course and won’t require its planned
system for monitoring trades to collect data in real time,
according to the Wall Street Journal.  The regulator is dropping its original plan to compile
trading information as it occurs, responding to criticism that
the system would be expensive and speeding up implementation,
according to the newspaper, which cited an interview with SEC
Chairman  Mary Schapiro .  The SEC proposed requiring exchanges and the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority to build a system known as a
consolidated audit trail less than three weeks after the equity
market crash on May 6, 2010. It  said  the system would help
analyze and explain the cause of events such as the rout 21
months ago that erased $862 billion in 20 minutes. The SEC took
three months to gather data on  stock trading  after the plunge
since information didn’t exist in a uniform or accessible format
from exchanges and brokers.  The SEC estimated in its May 2010 proposal that an audit
trail project would cost exchanges and brokers $4 billion to
establish and $2.1 billion a year to maintain. Schapiro later
said that the $4 billion estimate was too high. The system would
initially include equities trading data and later options,
according to SEC officials.  The regulator didn’t say how much the system would cost
without the requirement that data be submitted in real time, the
Journal said. The newspaper said the commission would adopt a
“revised framework” for the consolidated audit trail in the
coming months. The exchanges and Finra would then be required to
provide a “detailed blueprint” for the system, according to
the Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  