-- U.S. Senate Democrats Split Over Obama’s Contraception Rule
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-02-10T05:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/senate-democrats-split-over-obama-s-contraception-coverage-rule.html
The Obama administration’s decision
to issue a contraception-coverage rule without a broad exemption
for religious groups is creating an election-year split among
Senate Democrats, with some Catholics in the party joining
Republicans in calls to modify or scrap it.  Senator  Joe Manchin , a West Virginia Democrat up for re-
election in November, introduced a bill yesterday that would
block the federal government from requiring health insurance
plans to cover contraception if the purchaser opposes it for
religious or moral reasons.  “I feel it’s wrong, the direction and the position that
the administration is taking,” Manchin said. “I think it needs
to be rebuild, return and let’s go back to where we were.”  Other Catholic Democrats in the Senate, including  John Kerry  of  Massachusetts  and Claire McCaskill of Missouri, said
they want the administration to adjust its rule.  “I’ve told the White House that I think they need to find
a compromise that allows women to get access to birth control
through their employer’s health-care coverage, but without
pressing this issue of religious freedom to the extent that the
current scenario does,” said McCaskill, a  Missouri  Democrat who
also is running for re-election this year.  Republican leaders in both chambers say they will work to
soften the mandate. Senate Democratic leaders have sided with
the Obama administration, which ended months of internal debate
with the decision on birth-control coverage.  Biden Hints at Compromise  In the face of opposition from religious leaders, Vice
President Joe Biden yesterday hinted at the possibility of
compromise before the mandate takes effect. In an interview with
a Cincinnati radio station, he said a “significant attempt”
will be made to find a solution.  “I am determined to see that this gets worked out, and I
believe we will work it out,” Biden said on radio station WLW.  The Senate defections came days after the administration
said it will enforce a provision of the 2010 health-care
overhaul requiring contraceptives to be provided by employers
who offer health insurance. Houses of worship and nonprofit
religious groups that primarily employ and serve people of the
same faith would be exempt, while religious hospitals and
universities would not.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
on Feb. 7 that Democrats discussed the matter at a private
meeting, and that the administration had wide support for its
rule.  Good Discussion  “Of course it’s not good for the Democrats to go head-to-
head against any church, so we certainly don’t intend to do
that,” Reid said. “But we had a good discussion in our caucus
today and the caucus totally supports the president. I do.”  The intra-party rift is providing an election-year gift to
Republicans. They are seeking to demonstrate unity against
aspects of the health-care law unpopular with their party’s base
and to highlight differences that might gain support from
Catholics and social conservatives.  Catholic voters are among a base of white religious voters
in states including  Ohio , Michigan and  Pennsylvania  that feature
competitive Senate races and are battlegrounds for control of
the White House.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  said
Republicans are discussing an “appropriate response.” House
Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio, who is Catholic, said during a
floor speech yesterday he will work to overturn what he called
an “unambiguous attack on religious freedom in our country.”  Faith-Based Groups  “This is about whether the government of the  United States 
should have the power to go in and tell a faith-based
organization that they have to pay for something that they teach
their members they shouldn’t be doing,” said Senator  Marco Rubio , a Florida Republican. “It’s that simple.”  There are 15 Catholic Democrats in the Senate, and six of
them are up for re-election this year, including McCaskill and
Senator Bob Casey of Pennsylvania. Democrats control 53 seats in
the chamber, including two independents who caucus with the
party.  The dissension extends across religious lines. Senator  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut independent who is an Orthodox Jew,
said he opposes the administration’s policy.  “I’m opposed to the rule and I think you have two rights
clashing here, which happens often in our system,” said
Lieberman. “To me the more important right is the one in the
Constitution, which is protection of religious freedom,
religious liberty.”  Staying Firm  During a meeting with  Senate Democrats  yesterday, President
 Barack Obama  was firm in his determination to enforce the rule,
New Jersey Senator Frank Lautenberg told reporters.  McCaskill said some Democrats at the meeting asked Obama to
reconsider.  At Senate Democrats’ Feb. 7 caucus meeting, one senator
spoke out against the rule, said Senator  Richard Durbin  of
 Illinois , the No. 2 Democratic leader. He said Casey, who
opposes abortion, told other senators he thinks they should
press for some kind of middle ground.  Durbin said that might be difficult.  “We’re talking about that,” Durbin said. “It is really
extremely difficult to find out what that might be.”  Manchin’s legislation, co-sponsored with Rubio, goes
further than Republican proposals to exempt groups that don’t
want contraceptive coverage. In addition to stating the
government can’t require insurers to offer contraception to
those morally opposed to  birth control , the measure would allow
those people or groups to pursue legal action if needed.  Manchin said he hopes the administration will take action
on its own to address religious groups’ concerns.  Not Political  “I’m hoping that they look at this position and find a way
to work with the churches and work with the religious
organizations,” Manchin said. Asked about the issue’s effect on
his re-election bid, he insisted “it’s not political” and said
it is a personal decision.  Senator Roy Blunt of Missouri, the fifth-ranking Republican
leader, said he doubts enough Democrats will band with
Republicans to prevail in a vote on legislation modifying
Obama’s position on the rule.  “I have no reason to think that,” he said. Blunt sought
to offer an amendment on contraceptive coverage to a highway
bill on the Senate floor and was blocked by Reid.  Germane Amendments  Democrats will try to limit the highway debate to
amendments that are germane to the bill, said Senator  Barbara Boxer , chairwoman of the Environment and Public Works Committee.
“Please do not mess up this bill and load this bill down with
extraneous matters,” the California Democrat said on the floor.  The rule was proposed in August by the  Department of Health 
and Human Services to require individual and group health plans
to cover contraceptives among other preventive medical services.
An exemption for “religious employers” left out thousands of
religious organizations, including charities, health-care
providers and schools.  During a two-month period, the agency received more than
200,000 public comments. In January, the administration said the
August rule would generally stand, and nonprofit groups that
don’t offer contraception coverage for religious reasons would
have until August 2013 to comply.  Religious groups and lawmakers in both parties lobbied for
a broader exemption, though the administration rejected that.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  