-- U.S. Senator Boxer Faults Bank of America for Mortgage-Refinancing Delays
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-02-09T20:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/senator-boxer-faults-bofa-for-mortgage-refinancing-delays-of-up-to-90-days.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the second-
largest U.S. lender, was faulted by Senator  Barbara Boxer  for
making borrowers wait as long as 90 days to apply for mortgage
refinancing and was urged to speed up the process.  “Delays could prevent borrowers from taking advantage of
today’s historically low  interest rates  and improvements
recently made to the Home Affordable Refinance Program,” the
California Democrat wrote in a letter today to Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan .  The lender began a reservation system last week that asks
those who call during high-volume times if they wish to be
contacted again in 60 to 90 days, according to two people who
requested anonymity because the measure hasn’t been announced.
President  Barack Obama  has said housing relief programs may aid
the economy by lowering monthly payments for borrowers who are
current on their payments.  “It is critical that Bank of America take the steps
necessary to meet the increased demand for refinancing caused by
changes in the HARP program,” Boxer wrote. “Making it easier
for responsible homeowners to refinance at today’s low rates
will help keep families in their homes and boost the economy.”  Obama has urged an expansion of HARP that would let
homeowners who are current on their payments save $3,000 a year
through refinancing into lower-interest loans guaranteed by the
 Federal Housing Administration .  Mortgage Rates  Rates for  30-year  U.S. mortgages held at the lowest level
on record,  Freddie Mac  said in a statement. The average rate for
a 30-year fixed loan was unchanged in the week ended today at
3.87 percent, the lowest in records dating to 1971. The  Federal
Reserve  said last month that economic conditions may warrant
“exceptionally low levels” for  interest rates  through at least
late 2014.  Bank of America is “working hard” to meet customer
demand, a spokesman for the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
lender said this week. Customers with a Bank of America checking
account or those who apply at a branch aren’t subject to the
delay, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  The move is the latest by Bank of America, once the biggest
mortgage lender and now No. 4, to prioritize who it serves as
the firm scales back. Last month, the company suspended
refinancings that allowed homeowners to extract cash from their
properties. Bank of America’s policies may be reversed if demand
falls or as more employees are added, one person said.  Bank of America lost about three-quarters of its market
share in U.S. home mortgages since 2007 while grappling with
defective loans inherited from its acquisition of Countrywide
Financial Corp., falling to 5.6 percent of originations in the
fourth quarter, according to FBR Capital Markets Corp.
Refinancing makes up about 80 percent of all U.S. mortgage
lending, according to FBR.  Wells Fargo & Co. and New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
the biggest U.S. mortgage lenders, said they aren’t stalling
customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 Hson2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  