-- Serbian Dinar Drops to All-Time Low as Investors Leave Market
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-02-09T17:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/serbian-dinar-drops-to-all-time-low-as-investors-leave-market.html
The dinar fell to an all-time low,
breaking through 109.00 to the euro for the first time, led
weaker by investors buying foreign currency and closing dinar
positions.  Serbia ’s dinar depreciated as much as 1 percent to 109.7532
before the central bank said it  sold  a total of 68.5 million
euros ($91.1 million) in the market to support the dinar,  fixing 
its mid-rate at 109.1794 to the euro today to be effective
tomorrow.  The dinar slumped for a sixth day as the Balkan country’s
energy imports soared amid heavy snowfall and freezing
temperatures. Serbia’s central bank held its benchmark  interest
rate  at 9.5 percent as the currency plunged, growth for the year
was revised downward and talks with the  International Monetary
Fund  stalled over the first review under a $1.3 billion
precautionary loan program.  “When you have such dinar declines in two, three days only
and the central bank supporting it with a mere 10 million euros,
the only thing you can do is close your position,” Ratko Guduric, the deputy head at Belgrade-based Vojvodjanska Banka,
part of the  National Bank of Greece SA  group, said in a phone
interview.  After the rate decision, vice-governor Bojan Markovic said
the Belgrade-based National Bank of Serbia is prepared to “do
everything necessary” to keep the market stable. The lender
sold 10 million euros yesterday “to smooth excessive daily
swings in the  exchange rate ,” it said on its website.  Genie Out  “The genie is out of the bottle,” said Zoran Petrovic,
deputy chairman of the managing board of  Raiffeisen Bank (RBI)  in
Belgrade, commenting on the dinar’s weakness. “Even after the
intervention, banks quote the dinar between 108.90 and 109.00 to
the euro. But at least the central bank has seen how much money
the market really needs.”  The dinar’s decline prompted trade unions concern and calls
on the government and the central bank to stop further
weakening, citing concern that the “rising value of the euro
additionally cuts the value of wages and pensions” and will
ultimately “inevitably lead to an increase in prices and
monthly loan installments” affecting the majority of the
population, the Alliance of Independent Trade Unions said in a
statement today.  Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic said in a statement today he
agreed with the IMF to keep the loan program frozen and pledged
to observe fiscal deficit and public debt targets agreed under
the program anyway. The lender’s mission will return to Belgrade
around “mid-year,” he said.  IMF Program  The loan program was approved last September to help shield
Serbia from  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis. An IMF mission
arrived in Belgrade last week to discuss ways to curb plans for
selling public debt and sovereign guarantees, which the lender
sees as deviating from agreed targets for 2012 by at least 300
million euros. The IMF postponed on Jan. 20 approval of the
first review under the program.  “The National Bank of Serbia will do everything necessary
to ensure the stability of the forex market in Serbia,” vice-
governor Bojan Markovic said in a telephone interview today.
“Foreign reserves of 12.1 billion euros provide more than a
sufficient buffer for that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net 
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  