-- Serbian Central Bank Holds Interest Rate Amid IMF Deadlock, Dinar Weakness
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-02-09T15:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/serbian-central-bank-holds-interest-rate-amid-imf-deadlock-dinar-weakness.html
Serbia ’s central bank kept its main
 interest rate  on hold for the first time since September amid
renewed dinar weakness and reports the government won’t come to
terms with the  International Monetary Fund  on the 2012 budget.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije left its two-week
repurchase rate at 9.5 percent, matching the expectations of 10
of 23 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Twelve predicted a
quarter-point cut and one a half-point reduction.  Policy makers, weighing the domestic fiscal situation and
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis against a weakening dinar, which
fell to an all-time low of 109.599 per euro at 12:16 p.m. The
central bank sold 43.5 million euros ($57.8 million) at a “cut-
off” rate of 108.6000 to the euro. The dinar traded at 108.7132
at 3:57 p.m. in Belgrade.  “Keeping the  budget deficit  within the framework earlier
agreed with the IMF would serve as an additional safeguard of
macroeconomic stability and leave more scope for future
relaxation of monetary policy,” the bank said in a statement.  Serbia is struggling to keep the economy from returning to
a recession. The central bank cut its growth forecast for this
year to 0.5 percent, according to the statement, from a previous
estimate of 1.5 percent, citing a “probable recession in the
euro area that will slow the pace of Serbia’s economic growth.”  Weak Demand  Gross domestic product expanded 0.8 percent in the last
quarter of 2011 from a year earlier, compared with 3.7 percent
at the beginning of last year. The IMF is also expected to lower
its 1.5 percent growth forecast for Serbia as the debt crisis
weakens demand for the Balkan nation’s exports and weighs on
capital inflows.  The government and officials from the Washington-based
lender agreed today to keep a $1.3 billion precautionary loan
program frozen, Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic said in a
statement today, adding that his Cabinet will stick with fiscal-
deficit and public-debt targets agreed under the program.  An IMF mission arrived in Belgrade for a week-long check on
Serbian finances on Feb. 2, two weeks after the lender’s board
delayed approval of the first review under the program, granted
last September. They are concerned about borrowing and sovereign
guarantees that “deviate” from program targets by around 1
percentage point of GDP, or close to $400 million.  ‘Heads in Sand’  “The IMF appears to be being overly aggressive in my mind,
especially given the global context and the fact that Serbia is
going to elections,” Tim Ash, the global head of emerging
markets research and strategy at RBS, said in e-mailed comments.
“The fund seem to be operating with their heads in the sand.”  The mission may return “around mid-year,” according to
Cvetkovic’s statement.  The dinar’s decline may reflect investor concern over the
IMF loan, Vladimir Vuckovic of the Serbian Fiscal Council, a
three-member body appointed by parliament to monitor whether the
government complies with self-imposed fiscal rules, said by
phone on Feb. 7.  Any further dinar weakening “may keep the central bank’s
hands tied,” he said.  The National Bank of Serbia last cut the rate on Jan. 19 by
a quarter-point after inflation slowed to 7 percent in December
from a peak of 14.7 percent in April. The central bank sees the
inflation rate hovering at its target mid-point of 4 percent by
year’s end.  Policy makers will remain “cautious not to overdo” rate
cuts to keep inflation pressure in check, central bank Vice
Governor Bojan Markovic said in a Jan. 17.  Without the IMF, Serbia risks stalling economic growth, a
credit rating downgrade and pressure on external liquidity and
the dinar, Stojan Stamenkovic, chief macroeconomist at the
Belgrade-based Economics Institute said on Feb. 7.  Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic’s government, facing
elections by May, is struggling to maintain  living standards  as
the economy sputters because of weak demand abroad for Serbian
goods amid Europe’s debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net 
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  