-- Shire Awaits Lexington Plant Approval as Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y
-- 2012-02-09T12:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/shire-awaits-lexington-plant-approval-as-profit-beats-estimates.html
Shire Plc (SHP) , the U.K. maker of the
Adderall hyperactivity pill, said fourth-quarter profit rose  as
sales of the drug and successor treatment Vyvanse gained while
competitor Sanofi worked to restore full production of rival
rare-disease treatments.  Shire said the U.S. is still reviewing plans for a new
plant for the Vpriv and Replagal genetic-disorder therapies that
are part of a strategy of winning market share from Sanofi. A
decision is expected “in early 2012,” Dublin-based Shire said
today in a statement.  Fourth-quarter earnings excluding some items surged to
$1.51 per American depositary share compared with $1.03 a year
earlier, the company said. Earnings beat the median estimate of
$1.38 per ADS from eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Gross
margins will be “marginally lower” this year, reflecting costs
from the acquisition of Advanced BioHealing Inc., Shire said.  A production disruption at  Sanofi (SAN) ’s Genzyme unit in 2009
handed Shire a sales and market-share windfall for genetic-
disorder treatments Vpriv, a treatment for Gaucher disease, and
Replagal, for Fabry’s disease. Newer drugs, including Intuniv
for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and Firazyr for
hereditary angioedema, have helped Shire cut dependence on
Adderall XR, which generated more than one-third of annual sales
before competing generic products came on the market in 2009.  “The effective ramp-up of enzyme capacity for both Sanofi
and Shire remain key,” Luisa Hector, an analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG in London with an “outperform” recommendation
on Shire stock, wrote in a Feb. 1 note to clients.  Total revenue increased 23 percent to $1.14 billion.  Shire shares fell 1.4 percent to 2,144 pence at 12:17 p.m.
in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  