-- Siemens Seeks Record $3 Billion From Sale of Warrant Bonds
-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-02-09T17:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/siemens-plans-to-sell-3-billion-in-bonds-with-warrant-units.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, is raising $3 billion from the biggest
biggest-ever offering of notes including warrants exchangeable
for stock, a cheaper source of funding than conventional bonds.  The two-part sale includes securities due 2017 and 2019
that carry rights to as many as 21.9 million Siemens shares,
based on yesterday’s closing share price, the Munich-based
company said in a  statement . Each portion is expected to be $1.5
billion in size, two people with knowledge of the sale said.  Bonds with warrants include a transferrable option to buy
underlying stock at a set price and time, allowing companies to
cut costs because buyers will accept lower coupons for the
chance of profiting from higher share prices. Siemens’s bonds
due 2017 will pay a coupon of 0.55 percent to 1.05 percent,
which compares with 5.4 percent on average for the company’s
outstanding fixed-rate debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Certainly there’s a slightly smaller coupon they have to
pay with this, so slightly better funding costs,” said David Clott, a portfolio manager at Aviva Investors in Westborough,
 Massachusetts , which manages about $4 billion in convertible
bonds. The warrants may be attractive once they’re detached from
the bonds, he said.  The securities due 2019 will pay a coupon of 1.15 percent
to 1.65 percent, Siemens said. The exercise price per share is
expected to be within a range of 137.5 percent to 142.5 percent
of the reference share price.  Stock Falls  Siemens, which is  rated  A1 at Moody’s Investors Service and
an equivalent A+ at  Standard & Poor’s , fell 0.48 euros, or 0.6
percent, to 75.52 euros in  Frankfurt . The stock has  risen  about
2.1 percent this year, giving the company a market value of 69
billion euros ($92 billion).  The notes will “achieve attractive financing from a
diversified investor base,” including convertible bond
investors, spokesman Wolfram Trost said today.  Sales of equity-linked securities in Europe, the  Middle
East  and Africa fell 51 percent last year to $10.9 billion after
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis roiled debt and equity markets.
Siemens’s transaction will be the biggest offering of bonds with
warrants in dollars, euros or pounds since at least 1999,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Our market’s been starving for issuance for over a year
now, and that comes from the fact that rates are so low and
equities have been down as well,” said Tom Wills, who manages
$1.5 billion in equity-linked bonds at Morgan Stanley Investment
Management in London. “If you want to play a recovery in
European markets through  Germany  then it’s as good a name as
you’re going to get for that purpose.”  The proceeds of the sale will be used for general corporate
purposes, Siemens said in the statement. The final amount will
be set according to investor demand, the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Martin in  London  at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  