-- Solar Stocks Hit Five-Month High on Demand: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-02-09T23:31:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/solar-stocks-hit-five-month-high-on-demand-china-overnight.html
Chinese solar companies surged to
the highest level in at least five months, led by  Yingli Green
Energy Holding Co. (YGE)  and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , after Deutsche Bank AG
said major Asian manufacturers are running at full capacity.  Yingli jumped 20 percent, the most since March 2009,
leading an advance in t he Bloomberg China-US 55 Index  of the
most-traded Chinese shares in the U.S., which climbed 0.2
percent to 106.29 yesterday in New York. Trina, the nation’s
fifth-largest solar-panel supplier, jumped 19 percent, extending
a two-day gain to 34 percent.  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN)  climbed
3.3 percent after dropping as much as 5.4 percent as short-
selling firm Muddy Waters issued its fifth report since November
questioning financials of the digital adverting company.  China’s government aims to double solar installations this
year and has set preferential power tariffs designed to
encourage manufacturers and developers to move into cleaner
energy sources. The U.K. Energy Minister  Greg Barker  said
yesterday in  London  he’s targeting solar capacity of 22
gigawatts in the nation by 2020, more than 20 times the current
level.  “Demand pick-up in multiple markets appears to be the
primary driver of recent strength in fundamentals,”  Vishal Shah , an analyst at Deutsche Bank, wrote in a report yesterday.
“Tier-one companies in China,  Taiwan  and  Korea  have rising
orders and are running at 100 percent of utilization.”  iShares Decline  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., fell 0.8 percent to $40.09
after jumping 1.7 percent a day earlier, the most in three
weeks.  Inflation (CNCPIYOY)  unexpectedly accelerated in January, rising to
4.5 percent from a year earlier,  China ’s National Bureau of
Statistics said yesterday. That was more than all 33 forecasts
in a Bloomberg News survey of economists and higher than an
increase of 4.1 percent in December.  American depositary receipts of Yingli, based in Baoding in
northern China, surged 20 percent to $5.90, the highest since
Sept. 1. Trina’s ADRs jumped to $10.95, the highest since Sept.
8.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the world’s largest solar-panel
maker, rose 9 percent to $4.18, also a five-month high. LDK
Solar Co., based in Xinyu of Jiangxi province, advanced 13
percent to $6.70.  Oversupply in the global solar industry is showing signs of
abating with demand expected to shift from  Europe  to Asian and
U.S. markets,  Renewable Energy Corp. ASA (REC) , a Sandvika, Norway-
based maker of polysilicon, which is the main raw material for
solar modules, said in its earnings presentation Feb. 8.  Solar Capacity  China plans to develop three gigawatts of solar capacity
this year, double its existing capacity, the National Energy
Administration said on its website on Jan. 11. Installations in
China may reach four gigawatts this year, Zhenrong Shi,
Suntech’s chief executive officer, said in a Bloomberg TV
interview in Davos on Jan. 25.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  added 0.2 percent to
1,351.95, extending a three-day rally. The  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 0.1 percent to 2,349.59.  Shanghai-based Focus Media climbed to $24.23, the highest
closing level since Nov. 18. It sank as much as 5.4 percent
earlier yesterday after short-selling firm  Muddy Waters  LLC
issued its fifth report questioning the financials of the
Shanghai-based company.  Focus Media overstated the size of its LCD television
network by reporting some cardboard posters as LCD displays,
Muddy Waters said in the report, reiterating a “strong sell”
recommendation. The short-selling company run by Carson Block
said in a November report that Focus was inflating the size of
its advertising network and overpaid for acquisitions.  Focus Denial  Focus has denied the accusations from Muddy Waters. It said
Dec. 22 that a survey by market research company Synovate showed
that the number of LCD screens and poster frames Focus claimed
to have was more than 99.95 percent accurate. It also issued a
statement on Jan. 6 to “entirely” deny Muddy Waters’s
allegations in a report that day questioning an acquisition.  ADRs of Focus Media have fallen 5 percent since the last
trading day before Muddy Waters’s first report on Nov. 21.  Jing Lu, an investor-relations officer at Focus Media in
 Shanghai , didn’t return calls seeking comment after business
hours.  Tudou Holdings Ltd (TUDO) ., China’s second-largest video sharing
website, slid 4.1 percent to a one-week low of $14.39, trimming
its gains this year to 31 percent.  “Some investors are selling to take profits after Internet
shares have risen so much this year,” said Echo He, a senior
analyst at Maxim Group LLC in  New York .  China’s exports probably fell 1.4 percent from a year
earlier in January, according to the median estimate of 31
economist surveyed by Bloomberg News. The figure is due today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  