-- Sony Using Chips in Market Fighting Disease
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-02-10T07:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/sony-seen-restored-using-chips-in-market-fighting-disease-tech.html
Rising rates  of cancer, obesity and
heart disease may offer a path back to health for  Sony Corp. (6758) , as
the ailing Japanese maker of televisions, cameras and game
consoles turns to semiconductors to end unprecedented losses.  Japan ’s largest consumer-electronics exporter will speed up
a move into health equipment by using the edge its new image-
sensors have over  rivals , said incoming Chief Executive Officer
 Kazuo Hirai . Medical has the potential to be one of the main
sources of profit, Hirai said, even as Sony cut targets on
PlayStation 3 units, Blu-ray disc players and Vaio computers.  “We can leverage our technology base in image-capturing
sensors, lenses, 3-D technology, image processing, to mention
just a few areas,” Hirai said in an interview in Tokyo
yesterday. “Those are areas where we already have in-house
technologies that really allow us to differentiate ourselves.”  Sony won a boost after its smaller and more efficient CMOS
chips were used in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 4S, and the company is
now targeting endoscopes used to look inside body cavities and
other applications. Medical devices mark a further retreat from
consumer products, where Sony has struggled against lower-cost
South Korean and Chinese rivals and Apple’s hit releases.  “They are looking for new markets that can support their
strengths in making high-quality goods,” said  Nobuo Kurahashi ,
an  analyst  at Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in Tokyo. “Medical
comes to mind,” he said. “It’s a market where people are
prepared to pay for quality.”  Sales of audio-visual goods such as Trinitron televisions
and Walkman music players accounted for 89 percent of Sony’s
1.05 trillion yen ($13.6 billion) revenue in 1981. Thirty years
later, the share from consumer products that now include Bravia
TVs and Cybershot cameras had fallen to 52 percent.  Cutting Back  The trend is likely to accelerate. Hirai said that while
Sony is committed to the TV division that by the end of March
will have lost about 700 billion yen over eight years, it will
cut the range of sets. Sony will also review more than 2,000
consumer products it makes, and may exit unprofitable
businesses. Announcing third-quarter earnings on Feb. 2, Sony
 forecast  a 220 billion yen loss in the year ending March 31, the
longest line of red ink since it went public in 1958.  Hirai takes over in April from  Howard Stringer , who spent
seven years restructuring the company, trying to marry Sony’s
engineering capabilities to gaming software, music and film
content. In the end, Cupertino, California-based Apple did a
better job of delivering the integration of design and software
across a platform of products. Suwon, South Korea-based  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  undercut Japanese manufacturers on cost.  Sony’s market value of $20 billion is one-sixth its 2000
peak. Samsung overtook Sony in 2002, and plans capital
expenditure next year that’s greater than its rival’s entire
stock valuation. Apple, worth less than $20 billion in 2000, is
the world’s most valuable company at about $460 billion.  Strategy Shift  To halt the descent, Sony will “speed up” development of
its technology and seek new products in which CMOS, or
complementary metal-oxide semiconductors, can be used, Hirai
said. Executive Vice President  Hiroshi Yoshioka  will head the
medical business, and Tadashi Saito, who leads Sony’s chip
operations, takes on the new role of chief strategy officer.  Sony shares fell 0.5 percent in  Tokyo  trading today,
snapping a 16 percent,  five-day  advance that was the biggest in
more than two years. The  Topix (TPX)  Electric Appliances Index rose
4.3 percent in the same period.  Dark Places  A breakthrough in Sony’s CMOS technology that can deliver
crisper images in dark conditions, such as those inside a
patient’s colon or esophagus, has helped the company gain sales.  “Sony is way ahead of its rivals,” said  Yuji Fujimori , a
Tokyo-based analyst at Barclays Plc., who expects the chip unit
to overtake financial services as the company’s most profitable
division. “It’s got good margin, too.”  Fujimori predicts operating margins on semiconductors will
jump to 17 percent by March 2014 from 10 percent this year. CMOS
may help lift operating profit at Sony’s semiconductor  division 
to 90 billion yen in the year ending March 2014, from 40 billion
yen in the 12 months to March 2012, he said.  Sony is spending 140 billion yen to boost CMOS production,
aiming to win a 30 percent share of shipments in the market for
image sensors used in  mobile phones , compared with 11 percent
for the year ended March 2011. Sony’s monthly capacity for chip
wafers used to make the sensors will be lifted to 50,000 units
by March 2012 and 75,000 units in the following three years,
from 25,000 in Dec. 2010.  “It is imperative that the company move aggressively into
new end-use applications, beyond camera phones and consumer
products,” Rob Lineback, an analyst at Scottsdale, Arizona-
based market research company IC Insights, said in an email.
“Sony will need to partner with leading equipment suppliers in
new markets.”  Diseases Spread  Longer, more sedentary lives and richer diets are driving
an increase in  heart disease , cancers and diabetes, spurring
demand for faster and more portable equipment to treat them.
Sales in the world’s 10 biggest markets for medical devices are
estimated to grow 6.8 percent a year between 2010 and 2015 to
reach $228 billion, according to MarketsandMarkets, a marketing
research firm based in  Dallas ,  Texas .  Global sales of CMOS chips for medical and scientific
equipment are forecast to grow at an annual compound rate of 21
percent between 2010 and 2015, Lineback said. The market for
camera phone sensor sales is projected to grow about 8 percent a
year over the same period, he said. Mobile phones will account
for 49 percent of CMOS demand in 2015, from 62 percent now, IC
Insights said.  Sony is considering an investment in  Olympus Corp. (7733) , the
world’s biggest endoscope maker, after the Tokyo-based company
admitted to a $1.7 billion accounting fraud, according to the
Nikkei newspaper. Olympus needs to shore up its balance sheet,
and Sony would gain access to the seller of seven in every 10
endoscopes in the world.  Hirai declined to comment on Olympus.  “Marketing medical products is very different to consumer
electronics, where volume is massive,” said Mizuho’s Kurahashi.
“It may take a while for Sony to grow the business, but it will
certainly help earnings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  