-- Sony Incoming CEO Hirai Vows to Take Painful Decisions to Cut Fixed Costs
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2012-02-10T07:46:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/sony-incoming-ceo-hirai-vows-to-take-painful-decisions-to-cut-fixed-costs.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  incoming Chief Executive
Officer  Kazuo Hirai  said he will make “a hard, painful
decision” to cut costs in the TV business and supply chain to
turn around a company facing a fourth straight annual loss.  “Pain can come in many ways,” Hirai, 51, told reporters
yesterday in Tokyo, where Sony is based. “We have to make some
hard decisions on where there are redundancies and reduce the
fixed costs in a variety of different areas.”  Hirai, who replaces  Howard Stringer  as president and CEO on
April 1, said he was committed to TVs because they are “at the
center of every entertainment experience.” Sony, a trendsetter
in the 1980s, predicts losing money on TVs for an eighth
consecutive year as consumers flock to devices from  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  for movies, music and games.  Sony, the world’s No. 3 TV maker, will invest in new
technologies and improve its lineup of liquid-crystal-display
sets, said Hirai, who is credited with reviving the PlayStation
game business.  “Sony will have to cut jobs if it loses any more market
share in TV,”  Shiro Mikoshiba , an analyst at Nomura Holdings
Inc. in Tokyo, said before the interview. “Wages are the burden
to the company’s fixed costs.”  New Technologies  Stringer streamlined the company’s workforce. Sony’s number
of employees dropped 6.8 percent to 168,200 in March 2011 from
180,500 three years earlier, according to the company’s website.  Sony, once worth $100 billion, is now worth $20 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Shares fell 0.5 percent
to 1,536 yen in  Tokyo  today, trimming the gains this year to 11
percent. The stock tumbled 53 percent last year.  The maker of Bravia televisions more than  doubled  its
annual loss forecast last week to 220 billion yen ($2.9
billion), blaming a stronger yen, production setbacks due to
floods and the cost of exiting a display-panel venture with
Samsung. The company may drop its less-competitive businesses,
Hirai said last week without elaborating.  The company may lose as much as 230 billion yen on TVs this
fiscal year after lowering its sales target to 20 million sets
from 27 million last year. It is writing down the value of some
facilities, reducing the number of models and cutting marketing
expenses in an effort to make the unit profitable by March 2014.  “It’s very difficult to imagine Sony getting out of the TV
business,” Hirai said yesterday. “We have to obviously focus
on pushing the envelope in coming up with new technologies.”  Cutting Costs  The company has cut sales forecasts on cameras, game
consoles and personal computers, and said mobile phone sales
were worse than expected.  Japan ’s largest-consumer electronics exporter is looking to
save money at its local operations and in the U.S. and  Europe ,
Hirai said. The cost-cutting also may affect suppliers and
manufacturers for Sony, which has had its  credit ratings  cut by
Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings
since December.  “That’s a hard, painful decision that we need to make but
the right one for business,” Hirai said without elaborating.
“I don’t make them easily.”  Hirai, who worked in Sony’s music and entertainment
divisions, edged out three other candidates with engineering
backgrounds, including Executive Vice President  Hiroshi Yoshioka , for the top job. Stringer, who turns 70 this month,
will become chairman of the board after a shareholders meeting
in June.  Medical Business  “Sony is very unique, even among Japanese companies, being
on the top of the list under the microscope,” Hirai said.
“It’s not an easy job, I get that. I’m going to do my best to
turn it around.”  One area of focus is the medical business, where Sony wants
to leverage its imaging, sensor and chip technologies, Hirai
said. Yoshioka will head the medical business as Sony spends 140
billion yen to boost its production of complementary metal-oxide
semiconductors, or CMOS.  Hirai also wants Sony to evolve from a company that
provides unique products to one providing a unique experience
for users.  “It starts with great hardware but that’s not the entire
equation,” he said. “It’s got to be combined with software,
content, services. That’s the whole combination that we need to
bring our customers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 