-- Regulator Approves Southern’s Reactors as Chairman Dissents
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-02-10T00:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/southern-prepares-to-usher-in-new-nuclear-era-as-nrc-weighs-plan.html
The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission approved  Southern Co.’s (SO)  application for the first
licenses to build reactors in more than 30 years, with the
chairman’s dissenting vote sparking new controversy over whether
safety upgrades are needed after Japan’s 2011 disaster.  The split vote mars the start of a new atomic era as
Southern builds the first U.S. nuclear reactor from a
standardized design that promises to speed construction and
reduce risks of runaway costs that plagued nuclear development
during the 1970s and 1980s.  “I simply cannot ignore what happened at Fukushima,”
Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  said in a statement after the 4-1 vote
today at NRC headquarters in Rockville,  Maryland .  Jaczko said in an interview he couldn’t support the
licenses without a binding agreement from Atlanta-based Southern
and its partners that the new reactors would be able to handle a
 power failure , earthquake, flooding and other hazards that
contributed to explosions and meltdowns at the stricken Japanese
station.  The licensing process “is a little bit like buying a
house,” where home inspectors identify things that need to be
fixed, Jaczko said. “Once you close on your house, which would
be like issuing a license, you own those problems.”  ‘A New Day’  Southern Co. and industry officials said Jaczko’s concerns
were appropriate for the old generation of reactors operated at
Fukushima Dai-Ichi and in the U.S., but were overblown for the
atomic generators under construction at Vogtle, about 26 miles
(42 kilometers) southeast of Augusta, Georgia.  “Greg Jaczko, I think, was making a statement that it is a
new day and we’re clearly prioritizing safety,” said Michaele
“Mikey” Brady Raap, a nuclear engineer and board member of the
American Nuclear Society, an organization of nuclear engineers
and scientists. “It was kind of a strange way to do it.”  Southern’s plans for Vogtle and the new reactors themselves
were vetted by the commission over a five-and-a-half-year
process, Thomas Fanning, Southern’s chairman and chief executive
officer, said during an interview today.  “It has been thorough, it has been thoughtful and it is
complete,” Fanning said. “In my opinion, all the issues being
raised have been answered satisfactorily.”  The new reactors’ safety systems are triggered by gravity
and other natural forces. While Fukushima’s meltdowns and
explosions resulted from stuck vents and a power blackout,
Southern’s reactors are designed to shut down without any human
intervention, Raap said in a phone interview.  “The whole emphasis here is to take the human element out
of the equation,” Raap said.  Billions Spent  The NRC plans to issue the license for the $14-billion
project tomorrow, said Scott Burnell, an NRC spokesman, in an
interview.  Southern and its investment partners have already spent
more than $4 billion laying pipes and other groundwork at Vogtle
and plan to begin work immediately on the nuclear portions of
the project, Fanning said.  Up next for Vogtle: setting re-bar, building the world’s
largest crane and pouring concrete in the nuclear areas of the
new plant, Fanning said. Later this year, the plant will start
to rise above the foundation.  The license also allows Southern and its partners to
finalize federal loan guarantees for $8.3 billion for the plant.
Fanning said he expects the financing to close during the second
quarter.  Scana (SCG)  Vote  Southern’s license marks the start of a mini-nuclear
revival that is expected to result in five reactors added to the
U.S. fleet this decade. The NRC is expected to vote soon on
Scana Corp.’s application to build two reactors at an existing
plant near Columbia,  South Carolina . The  Tennessee Valley
Authority (3015A)  plans to complete by 2014 a reactor it stopped
building in 1988.  “It’s a big day for the industry and for the country,”
Bill Johnson, chairman and chief executive officer of Raleigh,
North Carolina-based  Progress Energy Inc. (PGN) , said today in an
interview in  New York  prior to the NRC vote.  “We’ve been talking about a nuclear renaissance for years
now and this is the first tangible sign that we are going to
proceed in a meaningful way,” said Johnson, who is also
chairman of the  Nuclear Energy Institute , a trade organization.  ‘Abdicated Its Duty’  The NRC’s previous construction permit was issued in 1978
for the Shearon Harris plant, operated by Progress Energy,
southwest of Raleigh. A 1979 partial meltdown at the Three Mile
Island plant near Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , stalled the
development of U.S. nuclear power, which accounts for about 20
percent of the country’s electricity.  Still, Jaczko’s dissenting vote galvanized opponents of
nuclear energy and renewed calls for speeding up the adoption of
safety measures found wanting at Fukushima.  “The NRC abdicated its duty to protect public health and
safety just to make construction faster and cheaper for the
nuclear industry,” said Representative  Edward Markey  of
 Massachusetts  and the senior Democrat on the House Natural
Resources Committee.  “Rather than ushering in the so-called nuclear
renaissance, today’s vote demonstrates that the NRC is still
stuck in the nuclear safety Dark Ages,” Markey said in an e-
mailed statement.  A coalition of environmental groups also called on the NRC
to fully consider how lessons from  Japan ’s nuclear disaster last
year may affect new structures at the Vogtle plant. The groups
plan to file a lawsuit at the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
 District of Columbia  to challenge the license as early as next
week.  Reactor Not Needed?  “The chairman absolutely got it right,” Stephen Smith,
executive director of the Southern Alliance For Clean Energy,
said today in a telephone interview. “The regulator has the
responsibility to incorporate all lessons learned before they
rush forward with a new reactor design, and there’s no rush for
Georgia Power. The need for this reactor evaporated five years
ago.”  The dissent “certainly doesn’t hurt” the environmental
group’s chances of prevailing in their lawsuit, he said.  The chance of a court injunction stopping NRC-licensed
construction is “very low,” Marvin Fertel, chief executive
officer of the Nuclear Energy Institute, said today at an
investor conference in New York. No such lawsuit has ever
stopped nuclear construction, he said.  AP1000 Design  The NRC on Dec. 22 certified a reactor designed by  Toshiba
Corp. (6502) ’s Westinghouse Electric unit, which Southern and Scana
plan to build.  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) , Progress Energy and  NextEra (NEE) 
 Entergy (3009B)  Inc. of Juno Beach,  Florida , also are considering the
design, known as the AP1000, for proposed nuclear plants,
according to the NRC’s website.  The Energy Department in 2010 awarded Southern and its
partners, Oglethorpe Power Corp. of Tucker, Georgia, and the
Municipal Electric Authority of Georgia, conditional approval
for an $8.3 billion loan guarantee for the Vogtle project.  “The federal government is putting the American taxpayer
on the hook for billions of dollars to build nuclear reactors
that corporations would never risk building themselves,” Jim Riccio, a nuclear policy analyst for Greenpeace USA, an anti-
nuclear group, said in an e-mail.  Fanning said that customers of its  Georgia  Power subsidiary
would see their electric bills rise by about 1 percent annually
for about five years as a result of construction at Vogtle.  Southern rose 7 cents to $44.68 at the close in New York.
The shares have increased 18.9 percent in the 12 months ended
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  