-- South Korea Lawmakers Make First Trip to Gaeseong Complex Since Kim Death
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-02-10T09:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/south-korea-lawmakers-make-first-trip-to-gaeseong-complex-since-kim-death.html
A delegation of South Korean
lawmakers today visited a jointly-run industrial complex in
 North Korea  in the first such trip since Kim Jong Un succeeded
his father as leader of the totalitarian state.  Eight lawmakers toured factories and met representatives of
South Korean businesses in the Gaeseong Industrial Park six
miles (10 kilometers) north of the border that opened in 2005.
More than 50,000 North Koreans employed by 123 South Korean
companies at the facility produced a record $400 million in
goods last year, according to ministry figures.  Park Joo Sun, head of a parliamentary committee on inter-
Korea relations, said after returning that business owners told
the delegation the complex needs 23,000 additional North Korean
workers to meet growing demand.  “We hope that our visit can be a catalyst for increased
activity in Gaeseong,” Park said at a press conference in the
South Korean border city of Paju.  The zone’s success is one bright spot in bilateral ties
that have worsened since two attacks in 2010 killed 50 South
Koreans. North Korea is aiming to attract foreign investment
even as it has shown no sign of ending a nuclear weapons
development program that has led to international sanctions.  Park said South Korean representatives complained to his
group that a May 2010 restriction banning new investment and
equipment is hurting business. The measure was imposed following
the deadly torpedoing of a South Korean warship. North Korea has
denied all responsibility.  ‘A Miracle’  Gaeseong is proof North Korea has the potential to achieve
“a miracle” in growth by embracing a gradualist approach to
economic liberalization, Lee Jaewoo, an economist for Bank of
America Merrill Lynch in  Seoul , said in a phone interview.
“North Korea has almost no interaction with the world economy
right now, and the more it does so, the more that will help
opening up and introducing reforms,” Lee said.  Kim Jong Un inherited an economy one-fortieth the size of
the South’s and reliant on aid from  China  to feed its people
following the Dec. 17 death of his father  Kim Jong Il . The
younger Kim is aiming to continue his father’s goal of building
a “strong and prosperous nation” this year to celebrate the
centenary of state founder  Kim Il Sung ’s birth in April.  The North’s economy contracted 0.5 percent to 30 trillion
won ($26.9 billion) in 2010, compared with  South Korea ’s 1,173
trillion won, according to the South’s central bank. North Korea
had a shortfall of as much as 700,000 metric tons of food last
year, which could affect a quarter of its population, according
to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization.  Closing the Gap  Kim’s regime could “dramatically” shrink the difference
between the size of its economy and that of South Korea over the
next four decades by joining the global trade system like China
did with its market socialism, Lee said. Opening up without
fully relinquishing state control or being absorbed by the South
could result in annual growth of 10 to 12 percent, he said in a
report this month.  Military confrontation and political tension between the
two Koreas have affected operations in Gaeseong, where about 750
South Koreans work as well. North Korea has frequently refused
to let cargo or workers back across the border, forcing some
factories to suspend operations.  Such measures have disrupted South Korean business owners
who run the factories and send raw goods to the complex to
produce watches, shoes, kitchenware and electronic goods.
Watchmaker  Romanson Co. (026040) , women’s apparel maker  Shinwon Corp. (009270)  and
Namkwang Engineering & Construction Co. are among the Seoul-
based companies operating there.  Global Sanctions  International sanctions freezing North Korean assets
overseas, prohibiting direct and indirect imports of goods and
services and authorizing the searching of its ships for weapons
have failed to persuade the country to return to six-nation
nuclear disarmament talks. North Korea also rejected an overture
from South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  to view the leadership
succession as a “window of opportunity” in resuming dialogue.  Lee’s chief nuclear envoy said in an interview last week he
is “optimistic” that incentives offered by the U.S. and his
government will convince North Korea to resume the talks.  “The prospects of the normalization of the relationship
between Pyongyang and the international community, and
eventually a lifting of sanctions, all those benefits will be a
strong incentive for the new leadership,” Lim Sung Nam, South
Korea’s representative to the dialogue, said in the interview.  Today’s delegation included members of both the ruling and
opposition parties who sit on parliament’s  Foreign Affairs ,
Trade and Unification Committee and the Special Committee on
Inter-Korean Relations Development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  