-- South Africa to Lure Miners With $40 Billion Railways Boost
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-02-10T10:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/south-africa-to-lure-miners-with-40-billion-boost-for-railways.html
South Africa  is ramping up spending
on railways and roads to lure mining investment as the
government fights off calls from within the ruling African
National Congress to nationalize the country’s mines.  State-owned rail and port operator Transnet SOC Ltd. will
spend 300 billion rand ($40 billion) over seven years to expand
capacity on iron ore, coal and manganese export lines, President
Jacob Zuma told lawmakers in his state-of-the-nation speech in
Cape Town yesterday.  Mining “plays a critical role in the socio-economic
development of the country,” Zuma, 69, said. “We remain
committed to the creation of a favorable and globally
competitive mining sector.”  Zuma’s government is battling to lure investment in mining
as the ANC Youth League, led by  Julius Malema , pushes for the
seizure of mines in the world’s largest producer of platinum,
chrome and manganese. An ANC-appointed task team to investigate
the matter said nationalization would be a “disaster,” while
recommending higher taxes.  “The mining industry has been battered by a lot of
uncertainty with regards to policy, mostly centered around
nationalization,”  Kevin Lings , an economist at Stanlib Asset
Management in Johannesburg, said in telephone interview. “They
are trying to eliminate that uncertainty.”  Deterring Investment  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ,  Rio Tinto Group Plc (RIO)  and
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  have operations in the country. Anglo
American, the largest investor in South African mining, and
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  are among companies that have said the
nationalization debate is deterring investment.  “There are no mixed signals about this,” Zuma said in an
interview with the South African Broadcasting Corp. today.
“Nationalization is not the ANC’s or the government’s policy.”  South Africa needs to boost mining to more than 10 percent
of gross domestic product from about 6 percent, Trevor Manuel,
head of the National Planning Commission, said on Feb. 6. Mining
production declined 5.1 percent in the fourth quarter compared
with a year earlier, the statistics agency said yesterday.  “President Zuma has made clear that the South African
government is serious about growing the mining industry and
making it more internationally competitive,” Anglo American
spokesman Pranill Ramchander said in e-mailed comments. “We are
particularly pleased with the commitment to develop and
integrate rail, road and water infrastructure, developing the
capacity of our ports and containing electricity price
increases.”  ‘Industrialize the Country’  Zuma is betting that increased spending on infrastructure
projects will help offset slower growth in  Africa ’s biggest
economy and reduce the highest jobless rate among 61 countries
tracked by Bloomberg. High port costs and a lack of rail and
power capacity have been cited by the government as one of the
major obstacles to faster economic growth.  “The massive investment in infrastructure must leave more
than just power stations, rail-lines, dams and roads,” Zuma
said. “It must industrialize the country, generate skills and
boost much-needed  job creation .”  The government plans to send officials to the  Middle East 
next week to seek investment from the region’s sovereign wealth
funds, Collins Chabane, the minister in the presidency, said in
an interview on SAfm radio today. Transnet’s finances are strong
enough to fund the projects over seven years, the South African
Press Association reported, citing Public Enterprises Minister
 Malusi Gigaba .  Growth Slows  South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  has pledged
to cut the  budget deficit  to 3.3 percent of GDP in three years
from 5.5 percent in the current fiscal year.  Growth will probably slow this year to below 3 percent from
3.1 percent in 2011 as  Europe  heads toward recession, Gordhan
said on Jan. 26. That’s less than half the 7 percent annual
 expansion  that’s needed to cut the jobless rate to 14 percent by
2020 from 23.9 percent currently.  Rail, road and water systems in the northern Limpopo
province will help unlock coal, platinum, palladium, chrome and
other mineral deposits in the region and encourage investment,
Zuma said. Railway lines in the eastern Mpumalanga province will
be expanded to connect coal fields to power stations, while
transport links between the central Gauteng province and the
eastern port of Durban will be improved, he said.  ‘Lead and Guide’  Transnet will spend 200 billion rand on rail projects over
seven years, including links that will enable it to transport 82
million metric tons of  iron ore  a year, up from 60 million tons
currently, Zuma said. The rail operator will build a rail-line
to carry 16 million tons of manganese to the Coega port on the
country’s south coast.  The government will reduce port costs for exporters of
manufactured goods, saving them 1 billion rand, the president
said. Zuma has also asked Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., the state
power producer, to curtail planned price increases.  “We see our role as being to lead and guide the economy
and to intervene in the interest of the poor,” he said.  South Africa’s rand weakened 1.1 percent to 7.6688 against
the dollar by 11:54 a.m. in Johannesburg, trimming its gain for
the year to 5.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  