-- Bank of Korea Holds Rate for Eighth Month as Growth Slows on Europe Crisis
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-02-09T06:51:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/south-korea-holds-interest-rate-for-eighth-month-as-economic-growth-slows.html
The  Bank of Korea  held off raising
borrowing costs for an eighth straight month as the economy
slowed and exports declined due to the European debt crisis.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board kept the benchmark
 seven-day repurchase rate  unchanged at 3.25 percent, the central
bank said in a statement in Seoul today. The unanimous decision
was predicted by 18 of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Policy makers in export-driven Asian countries have relied
on monetary or fiscal stimulus to weather the European debt
crisis.  Australia  unexpectedly held off cutting  interest rates 
this week on signs of improvements in the U.S. and  Europe . Kim
has signaled that rates will have to rise at some point and said
today that inflation expectations are high and the central bank
is “on alert.”  “The central bank will likely stay on hold next month
while weighing the risk of growth and inflation,” said  Park Sang Hyun , chief economist at HI Investment & Securities Co. in
Seoul. “Growth momentum is apparently weakening with tepid
domestic demand and falling exports while inflation pressures
persist. We will see clearer signs of where the economy is
headed in one or two months.”  The Kospi share index rose 0.5 percent at the close in
Seoul. The won was little changed against the  U.S. dollar ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Inflation Alert  U.S. growth, “robust” indicators from  China  and progress
in taming Europe’s debt crisis encouraged Australian policy
makers to keep rates on hold this week, the central bank
indicated. Over the past three weeks, Sri Lanka raised rates,
Thailand cut, and Malaysia and  New Zealand  made no change.  India 
also paused, while cutting reserve requirements for banks.  “Although our economy is in a difficult situation, it will
return to a long-term growth trend,” Kim said. “We will stay
on alert to price gains as inflation expectations are still
considerably high.”  In a Jan. 17 interview, Kim said rates remained
“accommodative” and the discrepancy with a more desirable
level “cannot be maintained for a long period of time.”  Asia’s fourth-largest economy, which grew the least last
quarter in two years, is getting some fiscal support from plans
for 60 percent of this year’s government spending to occur in
the first six months. The central bank and government forecast
3.7 percent growth this year after a 3.6 percent gain last year.  Overseas Shipments  “The upturn in the overall trend in shipments will remain
intact over the next few months,” Wai Ho Leong, a senior
regional economist at  Barclays Capital  in Singapore, said. Key
supports are the upturn in the activity indicators of  Korea ’s
export markets, including the revival in the U.S. ISM new orders
index and the January reading for the China NBS PMI, he said.  Overseas shipments, equivalent to half of the economy,
unexpectedly fell 6.6 percent in January from a year earlier,
the first drop in more than two years, according to a government
report on Feb. 1. Hyundai Motor Co., South Korea’s largest
automaker, reported a jump in fourth-quarter profit, fueled by
U.S. demand.  Last month, the  International Monetary Fund  lowered its
estimate for global growth this year to 3.3 percent from a
September forecast of 4 percent, warning that the European debt
crisis threatens to derail the world economy. The euro area may
enter a “mild recession” in 2012 as it shrinks 0.5 percent.
 South Korea ’s growth forecast for this year was cut to 3.5
percent from 4.4 percent.  Price Pressures  A dip in the Korean inflation rate to 3.4 percent in
January was largely because of a high year-earlier level, the
central bank said in a report to the National Assembly this
week. Price pressures will likely persist on elevated inflation
expectations and unstable oil costs, it said. The expected
inflation rate over the next year was 4.1 percent in January,
according to a BOK survey last month.  “The respite is likely to be temporary, given that
inflation expectations remain unanchored,” Leong at Barclays
said. There are “significant upside risks” for services costs
and core inflation given the public transport fare increases and
the possibility of another boost to electricity tariffs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  