-- South Africa Plans ‘Massive’ Rail Projects to Boost Jobs, Attract Miners
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-02-09T18:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/south-africa-plans-massive-infrastructure-program-president-zuma-says.html
South  Africa  is planning a
“massive” spending on railways and ports to boost exports and
attract investment in mining, President Jacob Zuma said.  State-owned Transnet SOC Ltd. will spend 300 billion rand
($39.5 billion) over the next seven years to expand capacity on
iron ore, coal and manganese export lines, Zuma told lawmakers
in his state-of-the-nation speech in  Cape Town  today.  “The massive investment in infrastructure must leave more
than just power stations, rail-lines, dams and roads,” he said.
“It must industrialize the country, generate skills and boost
much-needed  job creation .  Zuma, 69, is betting that increased spending on
infrastructure projects will help offset slower growth in
Africa’s biggest economy and reduce the highest jobless rate
among 61 countries tracked by Bloomberg. Improving rail and port
capacity may help to encourage investment in mining and counter
demands from the youth wing of the ruling African National
Congress to nationalize the country’s mines.  The mining industry ‘‘plays a critical role in the socio-
economic development of the country,” Zuma said. “We remain
committed to the creation of a favorable and globally
competitive mining sector and to promote the industry to attract
investment.”  Growth Slows  A study commissioned by the ANC recommends the government
raise taxes on the industry and warned the Youth League’s
proposal for the state to take over mines would be
“disastrous.”  South Africa is the world’s biggest producer of platinum,
chrome and manganese.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ,  Rio Tinto
Group Plc (RIO)  and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  have operations in the country.  Economic growth will probably slow this year to below 3
percent from 3.1 percent in 2011 as  Europe  heads toward
recession, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said on Jan. 26. The
 economy  expanded an annualized 1.4 percent in the third quarter,
close to a two-year low.  The government estimates the economy needs to expand 7
percent annually to cut the jobless rate to 14 percent by 2020
from 23.9 percent currently. The  International Monetary Fund  on
Jan. 24 lowered its forecast for South African growth to 2.5
percent from 3.5 percent.  Rail, road and water systems in the northern Limpopo
province will help unlock coal, platinum, palladium, chrome and
other mineral deposits and encourage investment, Zuma said. Rail
systems in the eastern Mpumalanga province will also be
expanded to connect coal fields to power stations, while
transport links between the central Gauteng province and the
eastern port of Durban will be improved, he said.  Port Costs  Transnet will spend 200 billion rand on rail projects,
including links that will enable it to transport 82 million
metric tons of  iron ore  a year, up from 60 million tons
currently. The rail operator will build a new line to carry 16
million tons of manganese to the Coega port on the country’s
south coast.  The government will reduce port costs for exporters of
manufactured goods, amounting to 1 billion rand, Zuma said.
Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., the state power producer, has also been
asked to curtail planned electricity price increases, he said.  Last year, Zuma announced a new jobs fund and 20 billion
rand’s worth of incentives to promote industrialization. To
date, the jobs fund has allocated more than 1 billion rand,
while seven projects qualified for incentives, worth 8.4 billion
rand, Zuma said.  South Africa ’s rand weakened 0.7 percent to 7.6014 against
the dollar as of 8:24 p.m. in Johannesburg, trimming the gain
for the year to 6.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  