-- Rajoy Plans to Tackle Spain’s 23% Jobless With Changes to Employment Laws
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-02-10T09:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/spanish-premier-rajoy-tackles-23-jobless-rate-in-litmus-test-of-resolve.html
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  will
announce changes to  Spain ’s labor laws today in a test of his
two month-old government’s resolve to revamp the shrinking
 economy  and tackle the Europe Union’s highest jobless rate.  Ministers will brief reporters at about 2 p.m. in  Madrid 
after the Cabinet meets. The “balanced” measures will improve
“flexibility” for companies and bolster training for workers,
Labor Minister Fatima Banez said yesterday.  “Any marked deepening of recent labor market and
collective wage bargaining reforms will be the litmus test of
Rajoy’s determination to overhaul Spain’s  economy ,” said  Raj Badiani , an economist at Global Insight Inc. in  London .  Rajoy, who faces a regional election in Andalusia next
month, needs to convince investors he is prepared to confront
unions and resolve  Europe ’s worst  labor  crisis as part of his
plan to restore the economy to growth. After winning the
national election on pledges of creating jobs, he also needs to
convince young people suffering from a 49 percent jobless rate
to remain in Spain to stem an exodus of workers.  “We’re seeing the alarming phenomenon of significant
emigration by Spanish graduates who are having to seek a living
beyond our borders,” Rajoy told Parliament on Feb. 8. “It
doesn’t seem reasonable that while in  Europe (UMRTEU)  the  unemployment
rate  rose from 7.6 percent to 10.4 percent during the crisis, in
Spain it rose from 8.2 percent to 22.9 percent.”  Struggling Companies  Rajoy said the same day that  unemployment  will continue to
rise this year as the economy suffers its second recession in as
many years and the government deepens budget cuts. A third of
the euro region’s  jobless  live in Spain, data from the EU’s
statistics institute show, and the Bank of Spain expects the
figure to increase as the economy contracts 1.5 percent.  The labor revamp will be “extremely aggressive,” Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos told EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn , newspaper ABC reported today.  It aims to give struggling companies ways to reduce payroll
costs without firing staff, and encourage part-time work and
professional training, Banez told a parliamentary committee on
Feb. 7. It will also reduce the “duality” of the labor market,
which gives workers with open-ended contracts as many as 45 days
severance pay for each year worked at a company, while 25
percent of contracts are temporary.  “Rajoy has done the right thing in making jobs the
priority but he now has to go all the way and give small and
medium enterprises more power to negotiate working conditions
directly with employees,” Ludovic Subran, chief economist at
credit insurer Euler Hermes SA, said in a telephone interview
from Paris.  Can’t Devalue  The  European Central Bank , European Commission and
 International Monetary Fund  have all called for changes to laws
that allowed  labor costs  to rise as much as 5.8 percent in 2009
even as unemployment surged. New rules are the only way to
improve productivity as the nation can no longer devalue its
currency, Bank of Spain Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez
said on June 21.  “The main area in need of deep reform is the highly
dysfunctional Spanish labor market,” Antonio Garcia Pascual,
chief southern European economist at  Barclays Capital  in London,
wrote in a report on Jan. 26.  The measures should reduce the “excessive segmentation”
between permanent and temporary workers, increase flexibility in
working conditions and bolster incentives for the unemployed to
seek work, he said.  Andalusia, Unions  Some of those steps risk riling voters before the March 25
election in Andalusia, which has the highest jobless rate in the
country at 31 percent, and may prompt opposition from Spain’s
unions.  Speaking to Finnish counterpart Jyrki Katainen before an EU
summit on Jan. 30, Rajoy was caught on microphone saying the
overhaul would provoke a strike. Unions held their first general
strike in eight years in 2010 after the former Socialist
government cut firing costs for struggling companies.  Still, unions and employers reached an agreement last month
to sever the link between wages and inflation for the next three
years and tie 2014 salaries to economic growth. Unemployed
Spaniards also want  labor laws  to be changed, according to a
poll published by El Mundo newspaper on Feb. 7.  More than 55.8 percent of unemployed youths would accept a
job paying less than the minimum wage, while 62.8 percent back
the creation of jobs paying 400 euros per month for 15 hours of
work per week. Across all age groups, 65 percent would accept
half the current level of severance pay, the poll showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  