-- Stanford Bank’s Swiss Accounts $1B Short: Regulator
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-02-09T19:58:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/stanford-bank-s-swiss-accounts-1-billion-short-regulator-says.html
     Feb. 9 (Bloomberg) - An Antiguan banking regulator told the
jury in R. Allen Stanford’s criminal trial he was “shocked” to
find $1 billion missing from Swiss bank accounts belonging to
Stanford’s Antiguan bank, days before U.S. regulators seized the
company on suspicion of fraud in February 2009.  Paul Ashe, Antigua’s supervisor of international banks,
testified that records he received from  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  in
early 2009 listed $250 million in Stanford International Bank
Ltd.’s Swiss investment account as of mid-2008. Stanford bank
records Ashe examined in the same timeframe showed $1.25 billion
in the same account.  “I was shocked,” Ashe testified today in federal court in
Houston. “It suggested the document shown to us when we did the
examination was altered, forged.”  Prosecutors claim Stanford masterminded a $7 billion
investment fraud through bogus certificates of deposit at his
Antigua-based Stanford International Bank. Stanford, 61, who
denies all wrongdoing in connection with the alleged scheme, has
been in custody as a flight risk since his indictment in June
2009.  Secretly Borrowed  Witnesses have testified that Stanford secretly borrowed
more than $2 billion to finance a lavish lifestyle and private
businesses ranging from Caribbean airlines and real estate to
cricket tournaments. Prosecutors have presented evidence
suggesting that Stanford bribed Leroy King, then Antigua’s top
banking regulator, to hide the fraud.  Ashe testified he found no mention of Stanford’s sizeable
borrowings in Stanford International Bank’s investment portfolio
records. Under Antiguan banking laws, any significant loans to
bank insiders must be “fully secured by cash, and the cash
should be placed within the bank itself, not in another bank,”
he said.  If Stanford International Bank had revealed Stanford’s loan
was part of its investment portfolio, “that would’ve been the
end of the bank,” Ashe testified. “This loan would’ve been
illegal. It would’ve been reckless, irresponsible and downright
negligent.”  In early February 2009, after Stanford bank executives
supplied Antiguan regulators with new records Ashe said made him
suspicious, the Financial Services Regulatory Commission opened
another examination of SIB. Ashe said he was still conducting
that exam when the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
seized Stanford’s operations on Feb. 17, 2009.  ‘In Chaos’  Two days later, island regulators appointed an Antiguan
receiver to oversee Stanford’s bank, which was then “in
chaos,” Ashe told jurors. “There was no leadership. Customers
were screaming for their money.”  Stanford’s attorneys have told jurors the financier was in
the process of consolidating more than 100 private companies and
investments onto the bank’s ledgers in late 2008. They said the
consolidation would have zeroed out Stanford’s loan balance and
repaid all depositors if the SEC had not stepped in and stopped
the process. They contend the court-appointed U.S. receiver has
destroyed much of the value of Stanford’s companies through
mismanagement.  “The SEC didn’t make the bank insolvent,” Ashe testified.
“The bank was already insolvent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 