-- Foreclosure Accord, Stanford, J&J, Gupta, BP in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-02-09T12:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/stanford-deutsche-bank-gupta-bp-news-corp-in-court-news.html
California and  New York , along with
Florida, agreed to join more than 40 other states in a
nationwide settlement 16 months in the making that seeks to end
abusive bank foreclosure practices that followed the collapse of
the housing bubble, a person familiar with the matter said.  The decision by New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman 
and California Attorney General Kamala Harris ensures the
settlement has the backing of two officials who had been among
the most outspoken in pushing for changes. The deal may be worth
as much as $39 billion, according to the person, who declined to
be identified because the terms haven’t been made public.  “With California and New York signing on, it’s a huge
deal,” said Kurt Eggert, a professor at Chapman University
School of Law in California who has been following the talks.
“California and New York were the biggest critics of this deal,
so if they sign on, that’s a sign that this is a real deal. It’s
not just a show.”  All 50 states announced 16 months ago that they were
investigating bank foreclosure practices following disclosures
that faulty documents were being used to seize homes. Officials
from a group of state attorneys general offices and federal
agencies, including the Justice Department, have since
negotiated terms of a proposed settlement with  Bank of America
Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. 
and  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)   Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, who is helping to lead
talks with the states, announced this week that more than 40
states had signed on to the settlement as of a Feb. 6 deadline.
California, New York and Florida were among the holdouts, along
with Nevada and Arizona.  California’s refusal to sign threatened to undercut the
significance of the agreement because it’s the most populous
state and has one of the highest foreclosure rates in the
country.  The settlement will provide as much as $17 billion in loan
principal reductions and other loan modifications for borrowers,
according to a draft letter outlining the deal. Banks will also
provide $3 billion in mortgage refinancing and pay $1.5 billion
to about 750,000 borrowers who lost their homes to foreclosure,
according to the letter.  The agreement, which will go into effect over a three-year
period, requires the banks to report compliance to an outside
monitor who will report to state attorneys general, according to
the letter. Banks will pay “heavy penalties” for failing to
adhere to the settlement, according to the letter.  Shum Preston, a spokesman for Harris, didn’t return phone
or e-mail messages yesterday seeking comment on California
joining the settlement. Dani Lever, a spokeswoman for
Schneiderman, and Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Iowa’s
Miller, declined to comment.  Florida is working on final details and expects to sign on
to the agreement, Jenn Meale, a spokeswoman for Attorney General
 Pam Bondi , said in a phone interview.  Besides New York, California and Florida, other states that
hadn’t signed on to the agreement as of the Feb. 6 deadline to
decide were Nevada, Arizona, Massachusetts, and Delaware.
Officials in Arizona and Delaware couldn’t be reached for
comment after regular business hours yesterday. Brad Puffer, a
spokesman for Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley ,
declined to comment yesterday.  Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto was still
reviewing terms of the proposed settlement, her spokeswoman,
Jennifer Lopez, said yesterday in an e-mail.  Rick Simon , a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment on
the talks with Arizona.  For more, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Stanford Had 100-Foot Ocean Yacht, CFO Settled for 12-Foot Boat  James M. Davis, Stanford Financial Group’s ex-finance
chief, told jurors that R. Allen Stanford was the mastermind and
prime beneficiary of what prosecutors said was a $7 billion
Ponzi scheme built on bogus certificates of deposit at
Stanford’s Antiguan bank.  “Who ran the companies, you or Mr. Stanford?” Assistant
U.S. Attorney William Stellmach asked Davis, who has been
testifying under a plea agreement at Stanford’s fraud trial in
federal court in Houston. “Who profited overwhelmingly from the
conduct you described with the CD money?”  “Mr. Stanford,” Davis replied to both questions.  Davis identified a photo of an ocean-going sport yacht as
one of several Stanford owned before regulators seized his
assets on suspicion of fraud in early 2009. Davis told jurors
yesterday he owned a small boat on the pond at his Mississippi
farm.  “Mr. Stanford’s boat was 100 feet long; your boat was 12
feet long,” Stellmach asked Davis. “Is that a fair reflection
of how this was all divvied up,” referring to proceeds each man
realized from the alleged Ponzi scheme.  “Yes, that’s a fair reflection,” Davis replied. “Follow
the money,” he added, pointing across the courtroom at his
former boss.  Stanford, 61, has denied all wrongdoing and is fighting
charges he mislead investors about the safety and oversight of
deposits at his bank. Prosecutors claim Stanford skimmed more
than $2 billion to fund a lavish lifestyle and dozens of private
companies that ranged from Caribbean airlines and real estate
developments to cricket tournaments.  Stanford’s attorneys presented evidence during the five
days Davis spent on the stand trying to paint the ex-CFO as a
thief who stole millions from Stanford’s operations and ran the
companies with little input from his boss.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Texas (Houston).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  BP Said to Seek U.S. Settlement of Gulf Spill Pollution Claims  BP Plc (BP/)  is negotiating with U.S. officials to settle
pollution claims over the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill that may
leave the company liable for as much as $17.6 billion in fines,
a person familiar with the talks said.  The government cited the energy company with violations of
the federal Clean Water Act for the offshore spill, the biggest
in U.S. history. Officials are seeking fines of as much as
$4,300 for each of the 4.1 million barrels spilled after the
explosion of the BP-leased Deepwater Horizon oil rig.  The company is also in settlement talks with other firms
tied to the spill, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the matter isn’t public. BP is set to begin a
Feb. 27 trial in New Orleans federal court in which it and other
companies will face claims by business owners and residents from
the region who had their property and livelihoods damaged or
destroyed. The Macondo well blowout killed 11 people, sullied
hundreds of miles of coastline and damaged fishing and tourism.  The trial before U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  will
unify hundreds of lawsuits by fishermen, tour operators and
state and local governments. BP, meanwhile, is seeking to shift
some of the blame, and damages claims, onto co-defendant
companies which helped drill and operate the well.  The Clean Water Act allows the government to seek fines of
$1,100 per barrel of oil spilled automatically. That can rise to
as much as $4,300 a barrel if a judge finds the company was
grossly negligent in allowing the pollution to occur.  At $1,100 a barrel, the maximum penalty would be $4.51
billion using the government’s estimate of barrels spilled. A
finding of gross negligence would boost that to $17.6 billion.  Daren Beaudo, a BP spokesman, declined to comment on
settlement talks.  BP needs to settle Clean Water Act claims before a trial
over its level of culpability for the spill, said David Uhlmann,
former head of the U.S. Justice Department’s environmental-
crimes unit.  “There’s no rational justification for going to trial,”
said Uhlmann, now a law professor at the University of Michigan.
The incentive for “BP is overwhelming for a settlement.”  BP is prepared to settle with other parties before trial if
the conditions are right, Chief Executive Officer Robert Dudley
told Bloomberg Television Feb. 7.  “With a reasonable settlement, we will settle,” he said.
“If it’s not a reasonable settlement, we’ll go to court.”  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 2-10-md-1979,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  For more, click here.  J&J Hip Patients Improperly Solicited by Firm, Distributor Says  Recipients of  Johnson & Johnson  hip implants recalled by
the company were improperly solicited as clients by an Atlanta
law firm using confidential patient data, according to lawyers
defending a suit against a J&J distributor.  J&J’s DePuy unit recalled its ASR hips in 2010, prompting
at least 4,500 lawsuits. The Atlanta firm,  Childers, Schlueter &
Smith LLC , filed some of the lawsuits, including five against an
ASR distributor and sales representative. In the pretrial
exchange of evidence, the firm got 130,000 pages of documents.  One document included patient-identifying information that
the defendants failed to black out, according to court filings.
The law firm used that information to solicit new clients, which
violates federal law protecting patient privacy, according to
lawyers for the ASR distributor and sales representative. They
are seeking sanctions against Childers Schlueter.  State Judge Alvin T. Wong will hold a hearing today in
state court in Decatur, Georgia. The motion by the ASR
distributor and sales representative claims the law firm used
the information to “generate and disseminate solicitation
letters denominated as ‘advertisements’ to such patients seeking
their representation.”  Childers Schlueter sued DC Medical LLC, the ASR
distributor; MJW Orthopedics, the former ASR sales
representative; and Michael J. Wright, the sole MJW shareholder.
The case was filed on behalf of Candace and Gordon Hershberger
of Georgia. She had both hips replaced with ASR devices, and
both need replacement, according to her complaint filed in
February 2011.  Childers Schlueter denied in court papers that it acted
improperly, saying DC Medical and MJW want to discourage
notification about the recall and “disparage and impugn the
professionalism” of the firm.  In August 2010, J&J recalled 93,000 ASR hips worldwide,
including 37,000 in the U.S., saying that more than 12 percent
of the devices failed within five years. J&J, based in New
Brunswick,  New Jersey , is the world’s second-largest seller of
health products.  Childers declined to comment before the hearing.  Lorie Gawreluk, a DePuy spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the sanctions litigation. She said of the pending federal
lawsuits: “DePuy will defend itself against the allegations
raised in the litigation and believes the evidence will show the
company acted appropriately and responsibly.”  The case is Candace and Gordon Hershberger v. DC Medical
LLC, 11A34982-2, State Court of DeKalb County, Georgia
(Decatur). The federal case is In Re DePuy Orthopedics Inc., ASR
Hip Implant Products Liability Litigation, 10-MD-2197, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Ohio (Toledo).  For more, click here.  Deutsche Bank Won’t Face Mortgage-Bond Fraud Suits, Judge Rules  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  won dismissal of two lawsuits in which
investors in residential mortgage-backed securities accused the
bank of selling them securitized loans it internally disparaged
as “crap.”  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan, in an order
filed Feb. 7, dismissed two separate lawsuits by Brussels-based
 Dexia SA (DEXB)  and Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of
America. The investors had “in certain key respects” failed to
provide sufficient particular facts to support their fraud
allegations, the judge said.  Rakoff said he would issue a more specific written opinion
at a later date. The investors could amend their claims in so
far as these relied on loans sponsored by Deutsche Bank
Structured Products, the judge said.  Gerald Silk , a lawyer representing the investors in both
cases, didn’t return a call seeking comment on the ruling.  The cases are Dexia v. Deutsche Bank, 11-05672, and
Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America v.
Deutsche Bank, 11-06141, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan.)  Gupta Wasn’t Rajaratnam’s Only Goldman ‘Insider,’ U.S. Says  A second “insider” at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  allegedly
leaked tips to hedge fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam , U.S.
prosecutors told the judge presiding over the case of former
Goldman Sachs director Rajat Gupta.  The government’s disclosure about another Goldman Sachs
tipster for Rajaratnam, who was convicted of insider trading in
May, came during the Feb. 7 arraignment of Gupta on revised
insider-trading charges that broaden the scope of the alleged
conspiracy. Gupta, 63, pleaded not guilty.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky submitted a Feb. 3
letter to the court describing “certain witness statements
relating to an insider at Goldman Sachs & Co. who provided
information to Raj Rajaratnam that did not relate to Goldman
and/or  Procter & Gamble .”  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan, who is
overseeing Gupta’s case, told lawyers Feb. 7 that he reviewed
the statements in the Feb. 3 letter and agreed with prosecutors
to keep them under seal because the alleged tips weren’t related
to any of the charges against Gupta.  “They have nothing to do with any issue in this case,
directly or indirectly, and therefore do not need to be
disclosed,” Rakoff said.  Gupta, the one-time McKinsey & Co. leader and former
director at  Procter & Gamble Co. , was accused in October by
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara of passing inside
information to Rajaratnam, co-founder Galleon Group LLC. The
U.S. says Gupta tipped Rajaratnam about Goldman Sachs and P&G
earnings.  Gupta’s lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , has asked the government to
share any evidence that Rajaratnam had an inside source at
Goldman Sachs other than his client.  The defense lawyer said he’s seeking the evidence to show
at the trial that the other source is the culprit, not Gupta.
Rakoff also pressed prosecutors to name the purported source,
whom he called “Mr. X.”  David Wells, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment Feb. 7 on the government’s letter to the court. Naftalis
declined to comment on the hearing after court.  For more, click here.  BP Won’t Face Some E-Mails in Gulf Spill Trial, Judge Says  Lawyers suing BP Plc and other defendants over the 2010
Gulf of Mexico oil spill won’t be able to use several internal
e-mails in the trial over fault for the incident, a judge said.  One e-mail includes a comment from a BP geologist two
months before the April 2010 well blowout referring to a “s----
y cement job” at the project.  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided
cementing services, asked that the e-mail be barred from trial,
saying the communication was a joke and the geologist didn’t
create it as a business activity.  The comment about the cement job isn’t a business record
and “is not admissible,” U.S. Magistrate Judge Sally Shushan
said in a ruling yesterday in New Orleans. “It must be
demonstrated that the e-mail at issue was not sent or received
casually, nor was its creation a mere isolated incident.”  Shushan also excluded an e-mail from a Halliburton employee
who called tests before the blowout unsuccessful. London-based
BP and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , owner of the Deepwater Horizon rig that
exploded, asked the judge to exclude the June 2010 e-mail,
calling it hearsay.  In the e-mail, Ryan Haire of Halliburton told another
company employee: “I read some report that stated that the two
negative tests we did were considered successful? I stated that
I found them to unsuccessful and I was checking to see if maybe
you knew why Transocean and BP were calling them successful?”  “There is no evidence that Haire possessed personal
knowledge that BP and Transocean called the two negative
pressure tests successful,” Shushan said yesterday.  The explosion of the BP well killed 11 workers and caused
the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history. It also spurred
hundreds of lawsuits against BP and its partners, including
Vernier, Switzerland-based Transocean, Houston-based Halliburton
and The Woodlands, Texas-based Anadarko, which owned 25 percent
of the well.  The nonjury trial begins Feb. 27 in federal court in New
Orleans before U.S. District Judge Carl Barbier. Shushan’s
decisions on evidence must be approved by Barbier before trial.
She gave the parties until today to make any objections.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  Wall Street Groups Seek to Delay CFTC Limits on Speculation  Two Wall Street groups asked a federal judge to delay a
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission rule that limits
speculation, saying the regulation is already imposing
“significant, irreversible costs.”  The  International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc. 
and the  Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association 
filed a request Feb. 7 with U.S. District Judge Robert Wilkins
in Washington, urging him to put the rule on hold while he
considers their legal challenge.  “Compliance efforts will include restructuring of
corporate relationships and divestment -- irreversible changes
in ownership,” Eugene Scalia, a lawyer for the groups, said in
the filing. “These costs are being incurred now and will
continue to rise absent a preliminary injunction, and they will
be impossible to recoup if the rule is invalidated -- as it
likely will be.”  The groups, in one of the financial industry’s highest-
profile efforts to weaken 2010’s Dodd-Frank law, filed lawsuits
in two federal courts in Washington in December challenging the
rule setting caps on the number of contracts a trader can have.  Wilkins yesterday ordered the commission to respond to the
request by Feb. 17 and scheduled a hearing for Feb. 27.  Steven Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, didn’t respond to e-mail
messages seeking comment on the groups’ filing.  The groups made an almost identical request to delay the
rule with the U.S. Appeals Court in Washington, which dismissed
the case after ruling it must first be considered by the
district court.  The case is International Swaps and Derivatives Association
v. U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 11-02146, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  Ex-Areva CEO Lauvergeon Says Spies Hired to Hurt Her Image  Areva SA (AREVA) , the world’s largest nuclear reactor builder,
commissioned a company to spy on  Anne Lauvergeon ’s husband to
damage her reputation, lawyers for the former chief executive
officer told a Paris court yesterday.  Lauvergeon, who was replaced two weeks before her contract
expired, asked the court to order an expert review of Areva’s
dealings with the research company for a civil suit, claiming
the goal was to mar her public image.  “It was her reputation that’s been called into question,”
said Alexandre Merveille, one of her lawyers.  Lauvergeon attended two hearings yesterday in Paris in
complaints she’s filed against her former company, which denied
her a third term as CEO in June, naming then-head of marketing
Luc Oursel to take her place. She asked commercial court judges
to order Areva to honor 1.5 million euros owed her under the
terms of the package offered by the board last year.  “It’s a contractual question,” Lauvergeon said after the
second hearing. “I have the right to two years of pay; I took
much less than what was due me. I’m not one of those greedy
executives.”  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Fortress, Relativity Sued by Investor in Sony Film Deal  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  and Relativity Media LLC were
sued by an investor who claimed $44 million in losses from a
film financing agreement with  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s movie studio.  Aramid Entertainment Fund Ltd., a hedge fund that
specializes in financing movies, filed the complaint yesterday
in Los Angeles County Superior Court. The fund accuses Fortress
of breach of contract, among other claims, for allegedly using
confidential information obtained from Aramid to make a deal
with Sony that destroyed Aramid’s investments.  “This is one of the greatest heist stories ever told in
the movie business,” Aramid said in the complaint.  Aramid in 2008 invested $22 million in Class B notes in a
so-called film-slate financing deal negotiated between
Relativity Media, an independent movie financier and producer,
and Sony Pictures, according to the complaint. The agreement was
set up to fund as many as 45 movies over five years and included
a $525 million commitment from Citigroup Inc., Aramid said.  In 2010, New York-based Fortress, a manager of buyout and
hedge funds, did due diligence on Aramid’s portfolio, according
to the complaint. Fortress didn’t make an offer for any of
Aramid’s assets and used information about the Sony investments
to buy the outstanding balance of Citigroup’s stake, $226.7
million, for 50 cent on the dollar, according to the complaint.  Fortress, now the majority owner of the Class A and Class B
notes, then agreed with Sony to cap the amount of payments due
to the investors at $216 million, which left nothing for Aramid,
the only other investor in the Class B notes, according to the
complaint.  Fortress made a gross profit of at least $96.1 million and
paid Relativity $14.5 million to agree to the deal, Aramid said.  Gordon Runte, a spokesman for Fortress, didn’t return a
phone call to his office seeking comment on the allegations
after regular business hours.  Adam Keen, a spokesman for Relativity, didn’t return a call
to his office seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Aramid Entertainment v. Fortress Investment,
BC478589, Los Angeles County Superior Court.  Danaher Investors Challenge Delaware-Only Lawsuit Rules  Danaher Corp. (DHR) , the maker of microscopes and water-treatment
systems, was sued for adopting corporate bylaws that force
shareholders to bring claims against the company solely in a
Delaware court.  Shareholders of  AutoNation Inc. (AN) , the largest U.S.
automobile retailer, travel website  Priceline.com (PCLN)  and truck
maker  Navistar International Corp. (NAV)  are also challenging the
policy. They said in lawsuits made public Feb. 7 that the
companies violated investor rights by requiring litigation to be
heard in Chancery Court in Delaware, where judges hear cases
without juries.  Such a provision “permits directors to control the forum
for litigation against them and thereby reduces their risk of
liability,” while avoiding jury trials, according to the
plaintiffs, pension funds with investments in the companies.  Founded in 1792, the Wilmington-based court has become a
top forum for litigating business disputes because more than 60
percent of Fortune 500 companies are incorporated in the state,
according to Jill Fisch, a professor of business law at the
University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia.  Washington-based Danaher, Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based
AutoNation, Norwalk Connecticut-based Priceline and Lisle,
Illinois-based Navistar are all incorporated in Delaware.  Brian Ek, a Priceline spokesman, said the company would
have no comment. Matt McGrew, a spokesman for Danaher; Marc
Cannon, a spokesman for AutoNation; and Steve Schrier, a
Navistar spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails
seeking comment on the lawsuits.  The pension plans’ suits were filed in Chancery Court
jointly by law firms Kessler Topaz Meltzer & Check LLP of
Radnor, Pennsylvania, and Prickett, Jones & Elliott, PA, of
Wilmington.  The cases are Boilermakers Local 154 v. Priceline.com,
CA7216; Boilermakers Local 154 and Key West Police & Fire
Pension Fund v. Danaher, CA7218; Larry Sutton v. AutoNation,
CA7221; and Singh v. Navistar, CA7222, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  News Corp. Settles More Phone-Hacking Suits, Delays U.K. Trial  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s British newspaper unit settled at least 15
more lawsuits by victims of illegal voice-mail interceptions at
its News of the World tabloid and delayed the first civil trial
in the scandal by two weeks.  Lawyers for the company read apologies to nine victims
yesterday, including soccer agent Sky Andrew, one of the paper’s
first known phone-hacking targets, and actor-comedian Steve
Coogan. While lawyers said dozens more lawsuits would soon be
filed, the only remaining complaint ready for the so-called test
trial was filed by Welsh singer Charlotte Church.  Judge Geoffrey Vos denied a request by News Corp. to
indefinitely delay the trial to deal with what the company said
were difficulties related to Church’s claim. He rescheduled the
trial for Feb. 27. “If it is a hard nut to crack, then
certainly it is my job to crack it,” Vos said.  News Corp. has agreed to pay out more than 5 million pounds
($7.9 million) to resolve claims by hacking victims, settling 54
lawsuits out of 60 that were filed by October. The scandal led
New York-based News Corp. to close News of the World in July and
the company faces a separate judicial inquiry and three related
police probes.  More than 50 victims are preparing new lawsuits, lawyer
Mark Lewis said in an interview yesterday. The U.K. unit, News
International, has admitted liability and tried to resolve the
cases out of court, offering victims an online process overseen
by a former judge to begin settlement talks.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News International,
declined to comment.  The Metropolitan Police Service has said more than 800
people were targeted and thousands of other names were found in
the notes of Glenn Mulcaire, the ex-News of the World private
investigator who was jailed for phone hacking in 2007.  For more, click here.  Harry Redknapp Cleared of Using Monaco Bank to Evade Taxes  Tottenham manager Harry Redknapp, the favorite to be next
coach of England’s soccer team, was cleared of evading taxes
after convincing the jury a Monaco bank account was a gift from
a friend.  The 64-year-old was accused of working with Sheffield
Wednesday owner Milan Mandaric to avoid taxes on $295,000 by
placing the funds in the account named after Redknapp’s late
bulldog Rosie when both men worked together at Portsmouth, a
club Mandaric owned. Mandaric was also cleared of the two
charges after the jury deliberated for five hours. The men
embraced when the verdict was delivered, and mouthed “thank
you” as the jury filed out.  “It’s been a nightmare,” Redknapp told reporters outside.
“It’s been five years. This is a case that never should have
come to court.”  The case ends almost six years of scrutiny into Redknapp’s
financial affairs. He traveled to Monaco at Mandaric’s request
to open the offshore account where prosecutors alleged he
received a bonus payment of $145,000 in 2002 as his share of the
profits of a player sale and a second one of $150,000 linked to
keeping Portsmouth in the Premier League in 2004. The defendants
both took the witness stand to insist the payments were
unrelated to soccer and were for investments made in U.S. stocks
on Redknapp’s behalf by Mandaric.  Mandaric, whose daughter flew to the U.K. to join him from
California, said he was “delighted.”  “I never doubted the truth would prevail, nor the fact
that the British justice system would come to the right
conclusion,” he said.  “We have no regrets about pursuing this case because it
was vitally important that the facts were put before a jury,”
Chris Martin, the assistant director for criminal investigations
for the U.K.’s revenue service, said.  For more, click here.  Rothstein Firm Manager Pleads Guilty in $1.2 Billion Swindle  William Boockvor, the uncle of convicted confidence man
Scott Rothstein, admitted to his role in a $1.2 billion Ponzi
scheme run by his nephew.  Boockvor, 66, served as the manager at Rothstein’s law firm
in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, from 2007 until the scheme
unraveled and the firm was forced into bankruptcy in October
2009. He pleaded guilty in federal court in West Palm Beach,
Florida, to conspiracy to commit wire fraud.  He admitted that he arranged for fraudulent bank statements
to be given to investors in Rothstein’s scheme. Investors
believed that they were buying stakes in sexual-harassment and
discrimination cases that had been confidentially settled. The
cases were fictitious. Boockvor is cooperating with
investigators in a probe that has led to charges against eight
people.  Prosecutors have said in court papers that employees of
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  helped further the fraud by reassuring
investors their money was safe in Rothstein’s account.  During the hearing, Boockvor’s attorney, Jack O’Donnell,
said his client was “basically a courier.” Outside of court,
O’Donnell wouldn’t give details of his client’s cooperation,
saying “more will be revealed.” Boockvor was initially charged
Dec. 1.  U.S. District Judge Daniel Hurley set sentencing for May 7.
Boockvor faces as long as five years in prison. Boockvor told
the judge that he had heart surgery last year to bypass five
blocked arteries.  The case is U.S. v. Boockvor, 11-cr-60281, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (West Palm Beach).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Ted Stevens Prosecution Misconduct Report to Be Made Public  A report on prosecutors’ misconduct in the failed
corruption case against the late U.S. Senator Ted Stevens of
Alaska will be released to the public next month.  U.S. District Judge  Emmet Sullivan  in Washington yesterday
ordered Henry F. Schuelke III, the special counsel who
investigated the matter, to file his 500-page report on the
court’s docket on March 15.  “To deny the public access to Mr. Schuelke’s report under
the circumstances of this case would be an affront to the First
Amendment and a blow to the fair administration of justice,”
Sullivan said in a 55-page opinion.  Sullivan set aside the verdict against Stevens in April
2009 and ordered an investigation into whether prosecutors’
conduct, which he said was the worst he had seen in 25 years on
the bench, was criminal.  In November, Sullivan said Schuelke had concluded the
prosecutors’ misconduct didn’t warrant criminal contempt
charges. The judge, who oversaw the trial and appointed
Schuelke, ordered prosecutors and lawyers for Stevens and other
witnesses to argue whether the report should be made public.  Four of the Stevens prosecutors, who aren’t named in the
ruling, objected to releasing the report, claiming that
Schuelke’s investigation should be treated like a grand jury
probe, which is nonpublic and bound by secrecy rules.  “The unique circumstances of this case are distinct from
the concerns expressed by the opposing attorneys,” said the
judge, adding that the lawyers can submit comments for
publication with the report.  Tracy Schmaler , a Justice Department spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail that the department didn’t object to the report’s
release.  Brendan Sullivan Jr. of Williams & Connolly LLP, a lawyer
for Stevens, didn’t immediately respond to a phone message
seeking comment on yesterday’s ruling.  The case is In re Special Proceedings, 09-00198, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Delta Air Lines Sanctioned for Withholding Evidence in Suit  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  must pay plaintiffs’ legal fees in an
evidence-gathering fight with customers, a judge said after
finding the carrier wrongly withheld 60,000 documents in a
lawsuit claiming it colluded with another airline.  Because there “is no smoking gun” implicating Delta in a
conspiracy with  AirTran (LUV)  Holdings Inc. to charge $15 to check the
first bag as alleged in the 2008 suit, paying legal fees and
costs is sufficient, U.S. District Judge Timothy Batten wrote in
an order.  Betsy Talton , a spokeswoman for Atlanta-based Delta, said
the company doesn’t comment on pending litigation. Delta is the
world’s second-largest carrier. AirTran is now a unit of Dallas-
based Southwest Airlines Co.  The withheld documents turned up in a related civil
investigation by the U.S. Justice Department’s antitrust
division.  The case is In re Delta/AirTran Baggage Fee Antitrust
Litigation, 1:09-md-02089, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Georgia (Atlanta).  McDermott Hires Former U.S. Attorney for White-Collar Practice  McDermott Will & Emery LLP  hired Jennifer R. Taylor, a
former U.S. Justice Department prosecutor, as the law firm
expands its white-collar practice.  Taylor, 36, was a federal prosecutor in the fraud section
of the criminal division, handling securities, bank and
procurement fraud and investigations under the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act, McDermott said yesterday in a statement. She will
join the firm’s Washington office as a partner in its white-
collar and securities defense practice group.  McDermott is an international firm with more than 1,000
lawyers. It was the 28th-largest grossing law firm in fiscal
2010 with revenue of $788.5 million,  according  to the American
Lawyer, a trade publication.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 