-- State-by-State Laws on Gay Marriage Produce Patchwork Quilt
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-02-09T16:58:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/state-by-state-decisions-on-gay-marriage-produce-patchwork-quilt-of-rights.html
The patchwork quilt of U.S. state
laws on same-sex marriage, which  Washington  is now poised to
legalize, leaves gay and lesbian Americans with different rights
depending on geography. To opponents, that’s just the way things
work in a union of self-governing states.  If Washington Governor Christine Gregoire signs the bill
passed by lawmakers yesterday, which she sought, her state would
become the seventh in the U.S. to grant so-called marriage
equality.  Still, gay couples who wed there wouldn’t see their
marriages recognized by the federal government or at least 40
other states that either outlaw same-sex marriage or haven’t
addressed it, according to  Freedom to Marry , a New York-based
advocacy organization that supports gay marriage. That’s fine
with John Eastman, chairman of the  National Organization for
Marriage , an advocacy group working against it.  “We have this system of laboratories called the states
where we can try different experiments and see what works well
and what doesn’t, without imposing a national rule on
everybody,” said Eastman, a professor at Chapman University
School of Law in Orange, California.  “We have patchwork laws on all sorts of things” that vary
from one state to another, such as custody laws and third-cousin
marriages, Eastman said in an interview. “It hasn’t seemed to
have brought us down yet.”  Up for Consideration  New York,  Connecticut ,  Iowa ,  Massachusetts ,  New Hampshire ,
Vermont and the  District of Columbia  allow gay marriage.
Lawmakers in Maryland and  Illinois  are weighing legalization,
while North Carolina and  Minnesota  propose to bar the practice
through voter referendum. Voters in  Maine (STOME1)  may decide whether to
extend marriage rights to same-sex couples.  In  New Jersey , Democratic legislators who control both
chambers have pushed for legalization in the face of a veto
threat from Republican Governor  Chris Christie . Today, Senator
Christopher Bateman, a Republican from Somerset, submitted a
resolution to amend the state constitution to redefine marriage
as “the legally recognized union of two persons of any
gender,” according to his spokesman, Adam Bauer.  The amendment would require approval from both the
Legislature and voters in a referendum. Bateman is against gay
marriage and voted as such in 2009, Bauer said.  For advocates like Evan Wolfson, founder and president of
Freedom to Marry, the patchwork of laws translates to “a house
divided.”  ‘One Country’  “We are one country, not 50 separate kingdoms, and we all
deserve equal protection under the law,” he said in an e-mail.
“Same-sex couples should not have to play ‘now you’re married,
now you’re not’ depending on which state they are in, or where
their employer sends them, or where their kids go to college.”  Nor should they be treated as “legal strangers,” he said,
by the federal government because of the  Defense of Marriage
Act , a 1996 law signed by President  Bill Clinton , a Democrat.
The law prohibits the federal government from recognizing same-
sex spouses, even those couples married in states where it’s
legal. The Obama administration said last year it would no
longer oppose court challenges to the law.  Tax Returns  Same-sex married couples, for instance, can’t file joint
federal returns, which have the effect of lowering taxes,
because the Internal Revenue Service defines a marriage for
federal tax purposes as “only a legal union between a man and a
woman as husband and wife.”  Washington state lawmakers yesterday approved a bill sought
by their Democratic governor to legalize same-sex marriage. The
measure includes an exemption for religious organizations to
decide who qualifies for their wedding ceremonies and which
marriages to recognize.  The law would normally take effect 90 days after the end of
the legislative session on March 8, said Karina Shagren, a
spokeswoman for Gregoire. It may face a repeal campaign, which
would put it on hold pending a referendum, she said.  A day earlier, a panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  San
Francisco  voted 2-1 to strike down  California ’s Proposition 8, a
voter initiative that prohibited same-sex couples from marrying.
Gay nuptials had begun in 2008 after the state’s top court
overruled a ban passed by voters in 2000.  Supreme Court  Carla Hass, an attorney for the Proposition 8 proponents,
said her clients were deciding whether to petition for a
rehearing before the full appeals court or take the case
directly to the  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L) .  A  Supreme Court  ruling throwing out Proposition 8 wouldn’t
necessarily affect other states because the appeals court’s Feb.
7 ruling specified that the gay marriage issues in the case are
unique to California.  In 2011, a majority of Americans for the first time favored
making gay marriage legal, 53 percent compared with 44 percent a
year earlier, a  Gallup poll  showed. Political independents and
Democrats accounted for the change as Republicans’ views hadn’t
budged, Gallup said.  The state-law quilt will eventually have to be dealt with
because it’s incapable of being maintained administratively at
both the federal and state levels, said Douglas NeJaime, an
associate professor at Loyola Law School in  Los Angeles .  The Defense of Marriage Act, which also says states don’t
have to recognize gay marriages performed in other states, could
be repealed by Congress or, more likely, the U.S. Supreme Court
could be asked to rule on it, he said. Either will take years,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  