-- State Department’s Review of TransCanada’s Keystone Proper, Watchdog Says
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-02-09T18:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/state-department-s-keystone-review-was-proper-watchdog-says-1-.html
The U.S. State Department followed
legal guidelines and standard procedures in its review of the
bid by  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  to build the Keystone XL pipeline, the
agency’s Inspector General said in a report.  The department “did not violate its role as an unbiased
oversight agency” in choosing contractors or communicating with
TransCanada, according to the report, which was posted today on
a congressional website.  The report was requested by Representative  Steve Cohen , a
Tennessee Democrat, and Senator  Bernie Sanders , a Vermont
independent, who oppose the project. The watchdog office advised
the State Department to revamp its procedures in picking
contractors to compile environmental-impact statements, which
the lawmakers had questioned.  “This report undermines the integrity of the project’s
review and underscores the point that the pipeline should not be
approved based on a shoddy, unscientific review,” Cohen said in
a statement.  Victoria Nuland , a State Department spokeswoman, said the
agency will consider the recommendations in the report. “There
was no improper influence,” Nuland said at a press briefing.  Independent Review  Cohen and Sanders sought the independent review of the
State Department’s study of the $7 billion pipeline from  Canada 
to U.S. Gulf Coast refineries before President  Barack Obama 
delayed consideration of it in November. Last year, lawmakers
unhappy with Obama’s decision set Feb. 21 as a deadline to issue
a permit. Obama denied TransCanada’s application, citing a lack
of time for a review.  Cohen and Sanders questioned the ties between TransCanada
and  Cardno Entrix , the consulting firm hired by the government
to prepare the environmental impact statement for the
pipeline. They also questioned the degree to which other
agencies’ views were incorporated in the environmental
assessment, and whether the State Department overstepped its
impartial role by advising TransCanada to withdraw its request
to operate the pipeline at higher pressures.  On each of those points, the Inspector General’s report
said that the State Department didn't violate accepted
standards or laws.  “OIG found no evidence that communications between
department officials, TransCanada, the Canadian government,
proponents, and opponents of Keystone XL deviated from the
department’s obligations under federal law,” Deputy Inspector
General Harold Geisel said in the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  