-- Steve Jobs’s FBI File Notes Past Drug Use, Tendency to ‘Distort Reality’
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-02-09T18:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/steve-jobs-fbi-file-notes-past-drug-use-tendency-to-distort-reality.html
The  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
released a decades-old file it kept on  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  co-founder
 Steve Jobs  that noted his past drug use and cites interviews
with people who say he tended to “distort reality.”  The 191 pages of FBI records are part of a 1991 background
check of Jobs, who died in October 2011, for an appointment by
former President  George H.W. Bush  to the President’s Export
Council.  The file includes the results of interviews with Jobs and
those who knew him. The records reinforce the picture of Jobs
that has been known to many followers of his career and Apple.
Biographer Walter Isaacson’s best-selling book about Jobs,
released last year, outlines his use of drugs and mercurial
personality. While many people interviewed by the FBI described
Jobs favorably, some said he wasn’t always truthful.  “Several individuals questioned Mr. Jobs’s honesty stating
that Mr. Jobs will twist the truth and distort reality in order
to achieve his goals,” according to the materials released by
the FBI.  Jobs was also the victim of an extortion attempt, according
to the FBI’s report. The agency investigated a 1985 bomb threat
against Jobs, in which an unidentified male made a series of
calls and said that “devices” had been placed in homes of
certain individuals and “one million dollars must be paid.”  The caller left instructions that one of the victims should
go to the  San Francisco  Hilton hotel in order to pick up a note
left under a table near a candy machine. The call-back number
left by the would-be extortionist was traced to a public
telephone in a parking garage at San Francisco International
Airport.  Information Request  FBI records can be made public after a person’s death.
Jobs’s files were released by the law enforcement agency
following a Freedom of Information Act request by Bloomberg News
and others. Jobs died after a long battle with a rare form of
cancer. Apple, the maker of the iPhone, iPad, iPod and Mac, is
now the world’s  most valuable company  by market value.  Representatives of the FBI in  Washington  didn’t immediately
respond to requests for comment. Steve Dowling, a spokesman for
Apple, declined to comment.  Even those who disagreed with Jobs recommended him to the
FBI. One person interviewed, who said Jobs was “deceptive,”
ended the interview by recommending him for the government job,
saying Jobs “possesses the qualities to assume a high level
political position,” the FBI records say.  “Honesty and integrity are not required qualities to hold
such a position,” in the opinion of the person, the records
say.  Appointed to Council  Bush appointed Jobs to the President’s Export Council on
May 24, 1990, where he served until the end of the of the
Republican president’s term in January 1993, according to Robert
Holzweiss, a researcher at the  George Bush Presidential Library 
in  College Station ,  Texas .  Jobs was ousted from Apple in 1985 following a  leadership 
dispute with then-Chief Executive Officer  John Sculley . In a
section of the 1991 background check on employment history, the
FBI asked Jobs to select from several reasons that his
employment at Apple ended. He chose the option that said “under
unfavorable circumstances.”  The FBI said interviews were conducted with former
colleagues, neighbors, professional associates and social
acquaintances.  Conflicting Views  The interviews show conflicting views of Jobs. One former
Apple colleague whom the FBI described as bitter toward Jobs
questioned his “moral character” after not being awarded stock
in Apple. Another person said Jobs possessed “high moral
character and integrity.”  Two other unnamed individuals the FBI interviewed said Jobs
was “strong-willed, stubborn, hardworking and driven, which
they believe is why he is successful.” The two people said Jobs
“possesses integrity as long as he gets his way,” without
elaborating.  One woman said she was reluctant to discuss Jobs with the
FBI because she had “questions concerning his ethics and his
morality.” She said Jobs’s personal life was “lacking”
because of his “narcissism and shallowness.” Even so, the
woman recommended Jobs for the appointment, calling him “a
visionary and charismatic individual.”  Jobs’s Daughter  Some of those interviewed talked about Jobs’s fathering a
daughter out of wedlock with Chrisann Brennan, a former
girlfriend. According to earlier accounts of Jobs’s life, he had
at first denied being the father, though he later reconciled
with his daughter, Lisa Brennan-Jobs.  Jobs’s use of drugs was mentioned throughout the report. In
an interview with the FBI for the 1991 background check, Jobs
said he hadn’t used any illegal drugs in the prior five years,
according to the agency’s records. From 1970 to 1974 he
experimented with marijuana, hashish and LSD, according to the
report on the Jobs interview. “This was during high school and
college and he mostly used these substances by himself,” the
report said.  The report also notes he had no close relatives living in
communist-controlled countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  