-- Stripe Said to Get Funding Valuing Online-Payment Startup at $100 Million
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-02-10T00:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/stripe-said-to-get-funding-valuing-online-payment-startup-at-100-million.html
Stripe Inc. , a  San Francisco  startup
with an online-payment system, attracted funding from  Sequoia
Capital  and other investors valuing the company at $100 million,
said two people with knowledge of the transaction.  The funding round raised $18 million, according to the
people, who asked not to be named because the deal isn’t public.
 Menlo Park , California-based Sequoia, which also invested in
Stripe’s previous funding, contributed $17 million to the round.  Stripe is vying with  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal and a variety of
startups in the burgeoning online-payment market. Its software
lets Web developers take payments via the Internet, without
having to set up their own merchant bank account or store
consumers’ credit cards. Stripe manages the job of keeping data
secure and complying with anti-fraud regulations.  For such an early-stage company, Stripe’s $100 million
valuation is “off the charts, statistically,” said Michael J. Patrick, a lawyer at Fenwick & West LLP who works with startups.
“There must be something red hot here for Sequoia to invest at
that valuation. This isn’t naïve money.”  The average early-stage valuation in the fourth quarter was
$7 million, said Patrick, citing data compiled by Dow Jones
VentureSource. In 2011, there were 1,414 early-stage deals in
the U.S. that raised a total of $8.3 billion, according to the
 National Venture Capital Association . That’s an average of $5.87
million per deal.  Founded in 2010  John Collison, Stripe’s co-founder, declined to comment. He
started the company in mid-2010 with his brother Patrick, who
serves as chief executive officer.  The financing adds to the $1.8 million that the brothers
raised in seed money shortly after starting the company. That
round attracted investments from Sequoia; PayPal co-founders
 Peter Thiel  and Elon Musk; angel investor  Ron Conway ; and
Andreessen Horowitz, a venture firm co-founded by Web browser
pioneer  Marc Andreessen . Bloomberg LP, the owner of Bloomberg
News, is an investor in Andreessen Horowitz.  Max Levchin, another co-founder of PayPal, contributed to
the latest funding, one of the people familiar with the matter
said. After PayPal, Levchin founded Slide Inc., a social-media
company acquired by  Google Inc. (GOOG)   PayPal processes around 30 percent of all e-commerce
transactions, leaving room for a new player such as Stripe, said
Todd Ablowitz, president of  Double Diamond Group LLC , a Denver-
based payments consulting firm.  “It looks like Stripe makes it very simple to get set
up,” Ablowitz said. “If you’re a one or two person company
selling coffee cups, God knows you don’t want to be the one
storing credit-card information so you can get hacked.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  