-- Swiss Stocks Climb as Greek Politicians Accept Austerity Package
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-02-09T17:04:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/swiss-stocks-are-little-changed-on-greece-nobel-biocare-tumbles.html
Swiss stocks  rose as Greek
politicians agreed on an austerity package needed to obtain
further financial aid, offsetting declines by  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  and  Nobel Biocare Holding AG. (NOBN)   Syngenta AG, the largest maker of crop protection
chemicals, climbed 1.6 percent after a report that world grain
inventories dropped. Credit Suisse dropped 3.5 percent after
posting its first quarterly loss in three years. Nobel Biocare,
a dental-implant maker, plunged the most since April 2010 after
forecasting disappointing sales and profit.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the largest and most
actively traded companies, increased 0.2 percent to 6,169.63 at
the close in Zurich. The benchmark gauge has advanced  3.9
percent this year  as investors speculated that policy makers
will contain the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis. The broader
Swiss Performance Index also added 0.2 percent today.  “Even if a deal was expected, it’s good news -- at least
for the short term,” said Benjamin Ferrand, sales adviser at
Louis Capital Markets SA in Geneva. “Investor sentiment could
improve and investors might see that things are looking better
for the euro area. However, we will still need to assess the
evolution of the Greek economy as one can’t forget that this
deal is set up with a lot of conditions.”  Greek Deal  The leaders of the three political parties in  Greece ’s
government agreed to a package of austerity measures required to
obtain 130 billion euros ($173 billion) of financial aid,
according to a statement from the Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos ’s press office.  “Discussions between the Greek government and the troika
were successfully completed this morning,” the statement said.
“Political leaders have agreed with the result of those
negotiations. Therefore there is a general agreement in the
context of the new program ahead of tonight’s Eurogroup
meeting.”  Greece faces a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March 20
and must secure financing to avert a collapse of the economy
that may lead to further contagion in the euro area.  European Central Bank policy makers meeting in  Frankfurt 
left its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low of 1 percent,
as predicted by 55 of 57 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Swiss  consumer confidence  rose for the first time in a year
in January. An index based on a quarterly survey of about 1,100
households increased to minus 19 from minus 24 in October, the
 State Secretariat for Economic Affairs  in Bern said today.
That’s the first increase since January 2011 and higher than the
expected gain to minus 22, the  median  forecast of 11 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey.  Syngenta, Basilea  Syngenta increased 1.6 percent to 296.40 Swiss francs as a
U.S. Department of Agriculture report said global corn
stockpiles will be smaller than estimated before the next
Northern Hemisphere harvests after dry weather damaged crops in
 South America .  A gauge of chemical companies was the second-best performer
of the 19 industry groups in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index .  Basilea Pharmaceutica (BSLN)  AG jumped 4 percent to 49.50 francs
after the drugmaker said its 2011 net loss reached 57.6 million
francs ($63 million). Analysts had predicted a loss of 76.5
million francs.  Credit Suisse,  Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank, fell 3.5
percent to 24.35 francs. The company said it had a loss in the
fourth quarter for the first time since 2008, hurt by “adverse
markets” and costs to reorganize the investment bank.  The net loss amounted to 637 million francs, compared with
the 446 million-franc  average profit estimate  of nine analysts.  Nobel Biocare Slides  Nobel Biocare slumped 16 percent to 10.50 francs as the
world’s second-largest dental-implant maker posted fourth-
quarter net income that missed analysts’ estimates.  The company is “cautious” about 2012 and expects low
single-digit percent sales growth, probably between 2 percent
and 4 percent, Chief Executive Officer Richard Laube said in a
conference call with reporters today.  Straumann Holding AG (STMN) , the biggest maker of dental implants,
retreated 3.3 percent to 161.10 francs.  Petroplus Holdings AG dropped 8 percent to 92 centimes
after saying its Ingolstadt refinery in  Germany  will reduce
production from tomorrow and will halt operations within about
two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  