-- U.K. Sets Rolling Solar-Subsidy Cuts, Sees 22-Gigawatt Capacity
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-02-09T14:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/u-k-sets-rolling-solar-subsidy-cuts-sees-22-gigawatt-capacity.html
The U.K. government proposed a system
of regular cuts for solar energy subsidies as the price of
photovoltaic panels declines, a plan it says will deliver a boom
in installations by the end of the decade.  Energy Minister  Greg Barker  said he’s targeting solar
capacity of 22 gigawatts in the U.K. by 2020, more than 20 times
the current level. The government will reduce the feed-in tariff
guaranteeing above-market rates every six months, with added
cuts if a certain level of installations is passed. It more than
doubled the budget for subsidies.  “Costs are coming down, and we’re determined that the
tariff comes down with it,” Barker told Parliament in London
today. “This is a very ambitious scheme and good news for the
industry. There is a great deal the industry can bank on.”  The measures match efforts in  Germany  and  Spain  to control
a surge in solar installations after Chinese companies led by
Suntech Power Holdings Co. boosted production of panels, pushing
prices lower. Environmental groups said the changes were a step
forward while the solar industry’s representative said it would
halt developments and threaten thousands of jobs.  “Ultimately the technology is going to have to stand on
its own two feet in terms of the cost of electricity production
and be able to generate power at the same cost as using fossil
fuels,” said Phil McVan, managing director of Myriad CEG Power,
a U.K. installer of solar panels, heat pumps, biomass boilers
and wind power technology.  Subsidy Budget  The government also boosted to at least 2.2 billion pounds
($3.5 billion) its budget for the tariff subsidy payments until
April 2015 from the start of the program in April 2010, about 2
1/2 times the original budget of 867 million pounds.  The plan follows two rounds of subsidy cuts announced last
year. The government in December lost a legal challenge from
Solarcentury Holdings Ltd., Homesun Ltd. and the environmental
group Friends of the Earth, which disputed the timing of the
second cut. After losing an appeal, the government said today it
has until Feb. 21 to lodge a new appeal.  The changes will provide for “moderate growth” in the
industry, said Donna Hume, spokeswoman for Friends of the Earth.
“This is a significant step forward to bring stability to the
solar industry,” she said in an e-mail.  The tariff program includes technologies such as small  wind
turbines  and biomass burners, though solar power has grabbed the
majority of the spending.  ‘Turmoil’  Companies were divided about the impact of the changes.
Jeremy Leggett, chairman of Solarcentury, the U.K.’s largest
solar power installer, said the move will leave the PV industry
facing “ongoing turmoil” and put 30,000 jobs at risk.  Good Energy Group Plc (GEGP)  Chief Executive Officer Juliet Davenport said, “The industry has been asking for more clarity,
and the government has moved to provide that.”  The government said the tariffs from July 1 should aim to
deliver a rate of return for solar projects from 4.5 percent to
8 percent. It laid out three options for cuts that would start
in July, contingent on the magnitude of installations between
March 3 and April 1. All would result in cuts of at least 20
percent for projects of all sizes.  The plans are now subject to an eight-week consultation.
The Department of Energy and Climate Change also confirmed plans
to reduce the feed-in tariffs by as much as 55 percent from
April for projects completed after March 3.  Falling Costs  U.K. PV project costs have fallen 45 percent since 2009,
when the previous Labour government was devising the feed-in
tariff program.  That took the industry from having a handful of
installations across the country to about 1.3 gigawatts expected
by the end of March, a bit more than the capacity of the average
U.S. nuclear reactor. Barker is targeting 4.5 gigawatts of
installations by 2015 and 22 gigawatts by 2020.  “The reason we are able to be so ambitious is because we
are going to be far more proactive in driving down the prices in
the solar tariff scheme,” Barker told reporters at a press
conference in London.  Caroline Lucas, the U.K. Green Party’s only member of
Parliament, called the proposals a “new shock” to the solar
industry after the government’s “shambolic” handling of past
subsidy cuts. Caroline Flint, a Labour lawmaker who speaks for
the party on  energy policy  in the House of Commons, said the
cuts were too  sharp .  Labour’s Concern  “That is a 70 percent cut in six months and all out of
proportion to falling costs in the industry,” Flint said,
estimating the decision will cost 15,000 to 20,000 jobs.  Britain’s proposal is similar to the system in Germany, the
world’s largest solar market, which reevaluates support every
six months. Following the July reductions, which will be based
on the level of installations in March and April, the U.K. will
make cuts of 5 percent to 10 percent in October and every six
months thereafter.  The plan also includes a “trigger mechanism” that allows
additional cuts between the scheduled ones if the government
deems installations are surging too much. It’ll allow the
government to give the industry two months notice of new cuts.  The government backtracked on an earlier proposal to allow
panels to be installed only on the most energy-efficient homes,
rated “C” or higher in the U.K. rating system. It’ll now allow
panels on homes rated “D” also, expanding eligibility from 8
percent of homes to more than half, Barker said.  The government also introduced a new tariff, at 80 percent
of the full rate, for projects where one company or owner has
more than 25 solar installations.  The new cuts announced for July, in addition to those in
April, will be “utterly devastating”, the Solar Trade
Association lobby group said in a statement.  “The government’s initial cut to the tariff was brutal,
and this further cut will be utterly devastating for the U.K.
solar sector,” Howard Johns, head of the association, said by
e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  