-- U.K. Opens Biggest Offshore Wind Farm in $52 Billion Push
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-02-09T14:51:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/u-k-to-open-biggest-offshore-wind-farm-in-52-billion-expansion.html
The U.K. opened the world’s biggest
offshore wind farm today, marking the start of a 33 billion-
pound ($52 billion) push to expand sea-based generation more
than 10-fold by the end of the decade.  New Energy Secretary Ed Davey inaugurated Dong Energy A/S’s
Walney farm, located in the  Irish Sea  about 9 miles off the
coast. The 367-megawatt project will produce enough power for
320,000 homes, according to Fredericia, Denmark-based Dong.  Britain, with more than 1,500 megawatts of offshore wind,
plans to boost capacity to 18,000 megawatts by 2020 to meet
rising energy demand, European Union renewables goals and cut
emissions 34 percent from 1990. The government says at least 110
billion pounds is needed by then to replace aging power plants,
upgrade the grid and build renewable-energy projects.  “Offshore wind can make a real contribution to our
renewable energy target,” Davey said at the opening ceremony in
Barrow-in-Furness. “The government wants this country to be a
leader in the renewables sector. It is great news for our
economy in terms of jobs that we create and exports.”  The  Walney  farm, which Dong co-owns with  SSE Plc (SSE) , PGGM NV
and Triodos Investment Management BV, cost about 1 billion
pounds and employed more than 5,000 people, said Helen MacBain,
a spokeswoman for the Danish company. Dong installed 51 3.6-
megawatt turbines in 5 1/2 months in Walney’s second phase.
Together with the first 51-turbine phase, linked to the grid a
year ago, the offshore farm is the world’s biggest.  ‘Really Important Signal’  Davey said that since April, about 1 billion pounds has
been invested in offshore wind in Britain including a Jan. 31
announcement that Samsung Heavy Industries Co. will base a 100
million-pound offshore wind project in  Scotland , creating more
than 500 jobs.  “We’ve seen investment from pension funds, that’s a really
important signal, and I think it shows the confidence that we
have a long-term strategy and that there’s money to be made,”
he said.  Faced with rising development costs and slowing economic
growth, wind companies are reducing construction times,
shortening supply chains and installing larger turbines to boost
the energy yield, said Christian Skakkebaek, a vice president at
Dong’s U.K. unit.  Cutting Costs  “2012 through 2014 will be about delivering the
industrialization of offshore wind,” he said in a phone
interview. “You will see the first steps” in cost reduction.  Dong will begin testing two  Siemens AG (SIE)  6-megawatt turbines
this year as well as a  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  7-megawatt blade,
almost double the size of those installed at Walney, Skakkebaek
said. “The benefits come from a larger rotor and larger
machine, built for the offshore market,” he said.  Centrica Plc (CNA)  and  Abu Dhabi ’s Masdar are among companies
planning wind parks in British waters over the decade. The
U.K.’s offshore spending may grow to 33 billion pounds by 2020,
about eight times its 2010 level, according to the Carbon Trust.  Installing turbines offshore costs about 3.3 million pounds
a megawatt, Bloomberg New Energy Finance data show. Costs are
likely to rise by about 200,000 pounds through the middle of the
decade before dropping to 3 million pounds, according to the
London-based researcher. That compares with about 1.25 million
pounds a megawatt to build a turbine onshore.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  