-- U.S. to Supply About 9% of Global LNG Output in 2020, BG Says
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-02-09T15:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/u-s-to-supply-about-9-of-global-lng-output-in-2020-bg-says.html
The U.S. will be able to supply about
9 percent of global liquefied natural-gas output by the end of
the decade, according to  BG Group Plc. (BG/)   BG, the U.K.’s third-largest gas producer, said the U.S.
will have the capacity to export about 45 metric million tons of
LNG a year from 2020 as hydraulic fracturing boosts domestic
supplies. Global output is seen at about 480 million tons a year
by then, based on estimates from Wood Mackenzie.  The company has secured about 34 percent of the planned
fuel export potential through deals with Cheniere Energy Inc.
and its own Lake Charles terminal in Louisiana, according to
Chief Executive Officer  Frank Chapman .  Increased U.S. gas production from shale formations has
helped drive prices to a 10-year low and led owners of LNG
import terminals to explore exports. Cheniere’s proposed
liquefaction facility at its Sabine Pass terminal is set to be
the first new North American export project since 1969.  The world will need an extra 2.4 trillion cubic meters of
new supply a year at the end of the decade to meet growing
demand and compensate for depleted fields, at a cost of about $2
trillion, BG said. That’s the equivalent of about 75 percent of
last year’s global production, according to BP Plc data.  ‘Tight Market’  The divergence between forecast supply and demand will
create a “tight LNG market outlook,” Chapman told reporters
today after BG reported fourth-quarter earnings.  Increased shale gas supply, its discount to oil, shorter
shipping distances to  Asia  through the Panama Canal, and
existing infrastructure will result in a “robust U.S. export
margin,” making LNG exports both “practicable and
competitive,” Chapman said.  BG could even exceed a target of securing LNG supply of 30
million tons a year in 2020, he said.  Japan ,  China ,  India  and
 South Korea  will be the largest LNG buyers by 2025, according to
BG.  BG, based in Reading, England, is examining plans to export
LNG to Asia, where prices can reach $17 per million British
thermal units, to benefit from arbitrage. U.S. front-month gas
prices fell about 39 percent in the last year to about $2.5 per
million British thermal units on increased output.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  