-- Google’s Motorola Mobility Bid Said Likely to Win U.S. Approval
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-02-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/u-s-said-likely-to-approve-google-s-bid-for-motorola-mobility-next-week.html
The U.S. Justice Department will
probably give antitrust approval next week to  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s bid
for  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc (MMI) ., said two people familiar
with the matter.  If approved by regulators, the acquisition of Libertyville,
Illinois-based Motorola Mobility will give Google more than
17,000 patents for mobile-phone technology.  The Justice Department also will probably approve a plan by
a consortium led by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to buy Nortel
Network Corp. patents, the people said. The Nortel acquisition
will give the Apple-Microsoft consortium, which also includes
 Research in Motion Ltd ., Sony Corp., Ericsson AB and  EMC Corp (EMC) .,
control of more than 6,000 patents and applications that cover
wireless technologies.  In its investigation of the deals, the Justice Department
became concerned with the increasing tendency of patent holders
suing to stop other companies from using their essential
smartphone technology, one of the people said. The department
will continue to examine companies such as Google that haven’t
sworn off the practice, the person said.  Both people didn’t want to be identified because they
weren’t authorized to speak about the investigations publicly.  Google’s $12.5 billion planned acquisition of Motorola
Mobility and the Apple-Microsoft group’s $4.5 billion purchase
of patents from bankrupt Nortel are part of a growing trend of
technology companies buying patents to defend themselves against
intellectual-property suits.  Gina Talamona, a  Justice Department  spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the department’s plans.  Google spokesman Adam Kovacevich and and spokeswoman
Mistique Cano didn’t immediately respond to e-mails and phone
calls seeking comment on the possible approval.  Google Letter  Also yesterday, Google said in a letter to technology
standards groups that it would still consider seeking court
injunctions to block companies from using its technology if it
couldn’t resolve “standard compliant” patent disputes. Google
wrote the letter to answer questions from the European
Commission, which is reviewing the Motorola Mobility deal to
determine if it would hurt competition.  European regulators will rule on the acquisition by
Feb. 13, Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the commission in
Brussels, said Feb. 7. The agency could clear the deal or open
an in-depth probe that would last about 90 working days.  “Transparency and consistency in licensing practices are
important with respect to standard essential patents,” Deputy
General Counsel Allen Lo said in a letter to the European
Telecommunications Standards Institute. “I am confident that
Google’s acquisition of MMI will not disturb those goals or
otherwise adversely affect” manufacturers or consumers.  Samsung Probe  The European Commission also is investigating Samsung
Electronics Co. to check whether the company broke a commitment
to license its smartphone patents to rivals on “fair,
reasonable and non-discriminatory terms.”  Microsoft and Apple have said they won’t deny other
companies from using their technology if they’ve previously
signed an agreement to that effect, the two people said.  Companies often sign contracts agreeing to license
essential technology for a reasonable price as a way to ensure
steady improvement in the technology.  The Motorola Mobility acquisition -- the largest wireless-
equipment deal in at least a decade, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg -- would make  Mountain View , California-based
Google a competitor to the other handset makers that make
Android devices. In addition to Motorola Mobility phones, the
software runs handsets made by companies including Samsung and
 HTC Corp. (2498)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  