-- U.S. Didn’t Intervene in Currency Markets in Fourth Quarter
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-02-09T21:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/u-s-didn-t-intervene-in-currency-markets-in-fourth-quarter.html
The U.S. didn’t buy or sell dollars
to affect foreign-exchange rates in the fourth quarter, the
 Federal Reserve  Bank of New York said in a report to Congress.  The New York Fed, which acts for the U.S. Treasury and the
Federal Reserve in the $4 trillion daily currency market,
intervened in the currency market during the first quarter for
the first time since 2000. The Fed bought $1 billion
of the U.S. currency on March 18, when Group of Seven nations
sought to halt the surge in the yen after  Japan  was struck
by the nation’s worst earthquake on record.  The value of the Treasury’s Exchange Stabilization Fund
totaled $25.93 billion, while the Federal Reserve System Open
Market Account holdings totaled $25.95 billion, the quarterly
report released today showed. Both accounts are made up of
holdings in euro and yen.  At the end of December, direct holdings of foreign
 government securities  totaled $25.2 billion. Repurchase
agreement holdings decreased from $5 billion in the prior
quarter to zero as the rates offered on the investments fell
below zero, prompting the Fed to transfer the funds to a deposit
account at one of its primary dealers.  On Nov. 30 the Fed, along with the central banks of  Canada ,
 England , Japan, Switzerland, and the  European Central Bank ,
agreed to reduce the rate charged on dollar liquidity swap
arrangements. In addition, the banks agreed to extend
authorization of the swaps through Feb. 1, 2013.  Dollar Index  The swap lines were provided by the Fed as part of measures
taken since 2007 to combat the effects of the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression. The emergency liquidity tool,
which provides dollars as needed, was reintroduced in May 2010
in response to renewed demand by overseas banks for dollar-based
funding.  The central bank’s trade-weighted measure of the U.S.
 dollar  appreciated 0.7 percent during the quarter, strengthening
3.3 percent against the euro, while falling 0.2 percent against
the yen, according to the report. The greenback lost 2 percent
to 6 percent against major commodity currencies such as the
Canadian, Australian, and New Zealand dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  