-- U.S. Drops Deutsche Boerse-NYSE Antitrust Lawsuit After Merger Abandoned
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-02-09T16:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/u-s-drops-deutsche-boerse-nyse-antitrust-lawsuit-after-merger-abandoned.html
The U.S.  Justice Department  said it
dismissed an antitrust lawsuit and proposed settlement agreement
with  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and NYSE Euronext because the two
exchange owners have given up on their proposed merger.  The lawsuit and settlement are “no longer necessary since
the parties have formally abandoned their plans to merge,” the
Justice Department said in a statement today.  Deutsche Boerse  and NYSE Euronext terminated their merger
agreement Feb. 2, a day after European antitrust regulators
blocked the transaction because it would have concentrated too
much derivatives trading in the hands of a single entity.  The Justice Department had cleared the transaction Dec. 22
on the condition that a Deutsche Boerse unit sell its
31.5 percent stake in another U.S. equity market, Direct Edge
Holdings LLC. The proposed settlement resolved the concerns
about competition the Justice Department outlined in a lawsuit
filed the same day.  At its peak, a combined New York-based  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse would have been valued at more
than $26 billion.  Scrutiny of the proposed acquisition was greater in  Europe ,
where a merger would have united the region’s two biggest
derivatives exchanges, NYSE’s Liffe and Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex.  The takeover would have put more than 90 percent of the
European exchange-traded  derivatives market  and about 30 percent
of the region’s stock trading in the hands of one company.
Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex is the region’s biggest derivatives
exchange, while Liffe is the second-largest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  