-- U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending Feb. 7 (Text)
-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 2012-02-09T13:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-feb-7-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln,  Nebraska :  Northeast: Only a few tenths of an inch of precipitation fell on
the abnormally dry areas in the Northeast, keeping D0 conditions
intact with some expansion into eastern  Maine . During the last
60 days, less than two-thirds of normal precipitation fell on
northeastern  New York , eastern  Vermont , and parts of western and
southeastern Maine. Some of these regions recorded only 25 to 50
percent of normal for the period.  South Atlantic and Central Gulf Coast Regions: Scattered
moderate to heavy precipitation (1 to locally 3 inches) was
observed in southern  Virginia , southern  Florida , and the
southern parts of Mississippi and western Alabama. Light
precipitation, 0.5 inch or less, fell on much of
southeasternmost  Louisiana , south-central and southeastern
Alabama, the western Florida Panhandle, and much of North
Carolina and southern Virginia. Other areas received little or
none.  As a result, moisture deficits increased through most of the
area, and drought conditions intensified in several broad
regions. Most notably, D4 expanded into part of southern and
east-central Georgia and southern  South Carolina . The last 365
days were the driest such period on record at a number of
locations, and most of the region recorded only half of normal
precipitation during the last 6 months.  Meanwhile, D2 and D3 conditions broadly expanded across central
and northern peninsular Florida, with smaller areas in
southeastern North Carolina, southernmost Mississippi, and
southeasternmost Louisiana seeing similar deterioration. Less
than half of normal precipitation fell on these areas during the
last 90 days.  Farther north, D1 conditions stretched to cover more of northern
South Carolina and a large swath through central  North Carolina .
3- to 6-month precipitation shortfalls are not quite as
impressive here compared to the areas at D2 or worse; however,
reservoir levels, streamflows, and ground water levels have all
declined over the past few weeks.  The Southern Great Plains and Most of Louisiana: Precipitation
varied markedly across this region. Very heavy precipitation
fell on the northern and eastern reaches of the areas
experiencing dryness and drought while, in contrast, little or
none was recorded from central Texas northward and westward
through southwestern  Oklahoma , the southern Texas Panhandle, and
the High Plains. Other areas received light to moderate
precipitation.  From east-central and southeastern Texas northeastward through a
large part of Louisiana, at least 2 inches of precipitation
fell, with 4 to locally 9 inches of rain recorded in part of
east-central  Texas  and central through northwestern Louisiana.
D3 to D4 conditions remained in part of east-central Texas,
where large 6 to 12 month precipitation shortages persisted
despite the wet week, but farther east significant drought
improvement was noted with only a small part of northwestern
Louisiana and adjacent Texas remaining in D3. Improvements were
most dramatic across Louisiana, where all drought severity
levels retreated westward and some areas of 2-category
improvement were introduced. Six-month precipitation totals
increased to above-normal levels in part of central Louisiana.  Farther north, central and eastern Kansas and much of northern
Oklahoma also received heavy precipitation. At least 2 inches
fell on north-central and northernwestern Oklahoma east of the
Panhandle, and on south-central  Kansas , with a swath of 3 to 6
inches observed from near the northeastern Texas Panhandle
northeastward through south-central Kansas. Conditions improved
enough to justify 2-category drought classification reductions
in this wettest area, generally to D1. Here, 6-month totals are
now above normal. Most other areas improved a single category to
D1 or D2.  Moderate rains were scattered across central and southern Texas,
leading to a broken pattern of 1-category improvements, while a
relatively dry week left conditions unchanged elsewhere.  The Northern Plains:  Between 0.5 and 2.0 inches of
precipitation, most in the form of snow, covered central and
southern sections of Nebraska and adjacent  Iowa . The heaviest
amounts were recorded in southeastern Nebraska, where dryness
was eliminated save for a remaining swath of D0 in areas still
near- to below normal since October 2011. Broad 1-category
improvements were also introduced through most other sections of
the state, restricting D0 and D1 conditions to northeastern
portions.  Very little, if any, precipitation fell farther north through
the remainder of the dry areas, generally leaving dryness and
drought unchanged. However, degradations to D0 or D1 were
introduced in a few parts of South Dakota. The last 6 months
brought less than half of normal precipitation to most of
 Minnesota  and adjacent sections of Iowa and South Dakota.  West: Little precipitation fell on most of the large dry area in
the West. Only parts of the Colorado Front Range and a few
locations in northern  Idaho  and eastern  Washington  recorded more
than 1 inch, where small areas of improvement were introduced.  The dry week generally kept drought conditions as they were the
previous week, with a few limited areas of deterioration. D2 was
introduced in a small part of northern  Nevada  where only about
25 percent of normal precipitation fell during the last 6
months. Meanwhile, D1 conditions were expanded into extreme
south-central  California  as well as northwestern  Arizona , and
abnormal dryness was brought into southwestern Arizona.  Hawaii: Light precipitation fell on most of the state, leaving
dryness and drought unchanged except across western Oahu, where
conditions were downgraded to D1. Some ranchers reported that
dryness was beginning to impact their operations.  Looking Ahead: During the next 5 days (February 9-13, 2012),
moderate precipitation totaling 0.5 to locally 1.5 inches is
expected across southern Oklahoma, all but the Big Bend region
of Texas, and western Louisiana. Light precipitation, generally
0.25 to 0.5 inch, is forecast for western Colorado, the
remainder of the southern Plains, from the central Great Basin
northward to the Canadian border and westward to the Pacific
Coast, and across central and southern peninsular Florida.  For the ensuing 5 days, the Climate Prediction Center (CPC) 6-10
day precipitation forecasts indicate enhanced probabilities for
above-normal precipitation in a large area that includes almost
all of the U.S. from the  Mississippi  Valley eastward except for
the immediate southern Atlantic Coast and peninsular Florida.
The odds also favor above-normal precipitation through the
central and southeastern Plains and the central Rockies.  Meanwhile, subnormal precipitation is favored in southern
Florida, the northern Plains, the Big Bend of Texas, the
southern Rockies, California, and adjacent parts of Nevada and
Oregon.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  