-- Banks Not Off Hook With $25B Mortgage Deal
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-02-10T14:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/u-s-banks-face-more-costs-after-25-billion-mortgage-foreclosure-accord.html
U.S. lenders including  Bank of
America Corp.  still face years of litigation and billions of
dollars in liabilities tied to the housing collapse after
agreeing to settle a probe of abusive foreclosure practices.  Government officials can pursue claims related to the
packaging of loans into securities, criminal-enforcement actions
and fair-lending violations, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder
said yesterday. The $25 billion deal with the five biggest
servicers ends state and federal probes into shoddy foreclosures
and pays for debt forgiveness, refinancing and other efforts to
keep struggling homeowners in their properties.  “It’s a big check with narrow immunity,” said  Paul Miller , a former examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia and now an analyst with FBR Capital Markets in
Arlington, Virginia. “You get the state attorneys general off
your back, but you’re not getting immunity from securitizations,
which could come with their own steep cost down the road.”  Banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Wells
Fargo & Co. and Ally Financial Inc. negotiated with regulators
for 16 months to seek the broadest possible release from claims
tied to the creation and servicing of mortgages. They agreed to
a deal that doesn’t liberate them from further losses.  “Because of the narrow nature and the fact that the banks
didn’t get the widespread assurances they were seeking, this was
mostly meaningless,” said  David Lykken , managing partner at
Mortgage Banking Solutions, an Austin-based consulting firm.  More Investigations  President  Barack Obama  announced during his State of the
Union speech last month the creation of a government unit to
investigate misconduct in the bundling of  mortgage loans  into
securities. The group will streamline and strengthen current
efforts to investigate fraud, Holder said Jan. 27.  Regulators are “aggressive” on pursuing securities claims
and created a task force to do so, said Department of Housing
and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan. The deal doesn’t
protect banks from claims related to creating defective loans
sold to government-owned  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , he said.  “It wasn’t the servicing practices that created the
bubble, nor caused its collapse,” Donovan said. “It was the
origination and securitization of these horrendous products.”  Another area that isn’t restricted by the settlement: the
right of states to pursue claims over banks’ use of a mortgage
database during foreclosures. New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  filed a suit this month alleging that the lenders
misled homeowners, undermined foreclosure proceedings and
created uncertainty about ownership interests in properties by
using the Reston, Virginia-based Mortgage Electronic
Registration System Inc., or MERS, to manage loans.  Expecting Lawsuits  While banks have largely reserved for costs from the deal
announced yesterday, bigger lenders may still face as much as $2
billion a quarter in legal expenses, said  Richard Bove , a bank
analyst at Rochdale Securities LLC, in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. He compared lenders’ predicament to that
faced by tobacco and asbestos firms after government agreements.  “What we’re going to see for the next five to seven years
is these lawsuits going through court after court,” Bove said.  The five biggest home lenders had $72 billion of costs tied
to repurchases, litigation, foreclosures and errors on faulty
mortgages since 2007, with Bank of America paying the most.
Investors who buy loans are entitled to ask for refunds or
compensation if they find missing or inaccurate data on home
values or the borrower’s income.  A Complex Task  “If you think about the overall housing market, there’s a
wide array of issues and no one action is going to put all of
that to a close,” Mike Heid, president of mortgages for San
Francisco-based  Wells Fargo (WFC) , said in an interview. “Today’s
settlement is a big step forward in a very substantial and
meaningful piece of the business.”  Adhering to the settlement provisions will be a challenge
for banks, said Terry Moore, a managing director at Accenture
Plc. Bank of America, struggling to handle mortgage refinancing
after a U.S. program boosted demand, told some customers they
must wait 90 days before starting an application.  “The work flow that’s required and the loan level that
needs to be researched and understood in order to look at the
individual borrower’s situation, it’s a complex task, and it
requires skill and resources,” Moore said.  Citigroup Inc., the third-biggest  U.S. bank , said it will
adjust its fourth-quarter and full-year results to reflect an
 $84 million  after-tax charge related to the settlement. The firm
accounted for $2.2 billion of the settlement. Citigroup will
record an additional $125 million after-tax charge to the
results “in connection with the resolution of related mortgage
litigation,” according to the statement.  Dan Frahm , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America, Ally spokeswoman Gina Proia and Kristin Lemkau
of New York-based JPMorgan declined to comment on banks’
expected costs.  Mark Rodgers  of New York-based Citigroup didn’t
respond to e-mails seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  