-- UN Envoy to Darfur Rebuffs Critics and Cites Progress on Peace
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-02-09T09:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/un-envoy-to-darfur-rebuffs-critics-and-cites-progress-on-peace.html
The United Nations special
representative to Darfur, Ibrahim Gambari, dismissed criticisms
of his performance and said violence in the western Sudanese
region is declining.  Gambari was criticized by  Human Rights Watch  for attending
the Jan. 20 wedding of Chadian leader Idriss Deby in the
presence of Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir, who has been
indicted by the  International Criminal Court  on charges of
responsibility for genocide and war crimes in Darfur. UN
guidelines bar its officials from attending ceremonial events
with people indicted by international criminal courts, Human
Rights Watch said.  Gambari, speaking to reporters yesterday in El Fasher, the
capital of North Darfur state, dismissed his critics as “people
who are specialized in character assassination” and he credited
the UN-African Union peacekeeping mission for improving security
in the region.  “The fact that Darfur is no more in the news shows that
something positive is happening,” he said. “The level of
violence has gone down significantly.”  Insurgents in Darfur took up arms in 2003, accusing al-
Bashir’s administration of neglecting the region. The conflict
has led to the deaths of as many as 300,000 people, mainly due
to illness and starvation, and forced about 2.7 million to flee
their homes, according to UN estimates. The Sudanese government
has put the death toll at about 10,000.  Militia Leader  News of Deby’s wedding made headlines in Sudanese
newspapers such as al-Sudani, al-Intibaha and al-Sahafa because
the bride, Amany Musa Hilal, is the daughter of Musa Hilal, a
former militia leader in Darfur. The UN Security Council imposed
travel bans and asset freezes on Hilal and three others on April
22, 2006, because of allegations they were involved in human-
rights abuses.  Human Rights Watch  said the UN Department of Peacekeeping
Operations explained in a Jan. 25 letter that Gambari attended
the wedding in Khartoum at Deby’s invitation and had “no
control over the guest list.”  Gambari said the political situation is improving in Darfur
following a peace agreement signed in Doha in July between the
government and the Liberation and Justice Movement rebel
faction.  “Now power sharing is real, now you have the vice
president, the ministers of justice, health, information and
education, and the head of the regional authority from Darfur,”
he said.  The main rebel movement in Darfur, the  Justice and Equality
Movement , boycotted the signing of the Qatar-brokered peace
agreement. Following the death of leader, Khalil Ibrahim, on
Dec. 25, Gambari urged JEM to join the  peace process .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  