-- Hungary to Liquidate Malev, Seeks Airport Deal
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-02-09T07:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/hungary-to-liquidate-malev-seeks-airport-deal.html
Hungary will liquidate  Malev Zrt. (MALEV)  in
the “near future” and is seeking a compromise with Budapest
Airport on compensation payments stemming from the collapse of
the state-owned carrier, the Development Ministry said.  “Malev’s liquidation can start in the near future once a
court concludes that the company is insolvent,” the Development
Ministry said in an e-mailed response to questions. The
government, which is in “continuous negotiations” with the
management of Budapest Airport, is “seeking a rational,
manageable compromise,” the ministry said.  Malev, weighed down by debts of 60 billion forint ($275
million), halted flights on Feb. 3 after 66 years in operation.
Malev went bankrupt after the European Commission, the
regulatory arm of the European Union, ruled last month that the
airline must return the equivalent of $390 million in government
aid from 2007 to 2010.  While Malev’s liquidation “doesn’t directly trigger legal
consequences,” according to the airport privatization contract,
the expected decline in airport revenue may force compensation
payments in an “extreme case,” the ministry said. German
construction company  Hochtief AG (HOT)  owns 50 percent of the airport.  “The exact amount may depend on several factors, but can
reach several hundred billion forint,” the Development Ministry
said.  Airport Privatization  Plunging revenue as the result of Malev’s collapse may
trigger a clause in Budapest Airport’s privatization contract
that will force the government to pay the operator 1.5 billion
euros ($2 billion), with “critical consequences” for the
budget, according to a state document published on Dec. 5. The
government sold a majority stake in the airport in 2005, and
Hochtief has been a shareholder since May 2007.  Yesterday, government commissioner Gyula Budai said Hungary
may have to pay as much as 1 trillion forint to the operator of
Budapest Airport if Malev is liquidated, MTI news service said.  Potential budget payments come as Hungary is seeking to
revive bailout talks with the  International Monetary Fund  and
European Union to quell investor concern about its ability to
service the highest debt level among the trading bloc’s eastern
members. Hungary sought aid in November as the forint fell to a
record low and the country’s credit grade was cut to junk at
 Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings.  New Services  Budapest Airport has recovered more than 60 percent of the
point-to-point traffic that Malev had provided as existing
airlines expanded capacities and new services were announced,
the operator said in an e-mail late yesterday. Deutsche
Lufthansa AG, Wizz Air Ltd., Ryanair Holdings Plc, Air Berlin
Plc, and Aegean Airlines SA were among the carriers that have
announced new routes, the airport said.  Still, Malev’s collapse has resulted in the “complete
loss” of 1.5 million annual Malev transfer passengers, which
has created an “extremely difficult financial situation,” the
airport said.  “In order to be able to cope with this dramatic situation
Budapest Airport calls the Ministry Of National Development and
the relevant authorities to take urgent and coordinated joint
steps together with the airport,” the operator said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  