-- UniCredit Leads Europe Equity Sales to Best Start in 5 Years
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-02-09T16:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/unicredit-leads-europe-equity-sales-to-best-start-in-five-years.html
UniCredit SpA ’s $9.9 billion rights
offer is leading  Europe ’s stock sales to the best start of the
year since 2007, a sign that the region’s companies may return
to the equity markets after last quarter’s slump.  European companies raised a total of $14.3 billion selling
shares in the first five weeks, 16 percent more than the year-
ago period and the most in five years, Bloomberg data show.
While businesses sought more in rights offers and additional
sales, initial public offerings fetched $234 million, the lowest
since 2009.  Equity sales in Europe bounced back from a nine-year low
last quarter after the region’s leaders made inroads to tackle
the debt woes and lenders received unprecedented cash from the
 European Central Bank . With stocks rallying for a second month
and volatility halved from its September high, more companies
may follow with stock offerings and the IPO market could
eventually kick back in the second half, according to  Societe
Generale SA .  “It shows investors, encouraged by the market rally and
lower volatilities, are now warming up to these deals,” said
Laurent Morel, the Paris-based global head of  equity capital
markets  at Societe Generale. “This is a good sign and may
welcome more deals to the market.”  Attracting Investors  UniCredit’s rights offer attracted investors from the Abu
Dhabi-based sovereign-wealth fund Aabar Investments PJSC to the
Los Angeles-based investment fund Capital Research & Management
Co., as well as Italian buyers such as Alessandro Proto
Consulting.  The rights issued by Milan-based UniCredit doubled in their
10 trading days through Jan. 20, compared with an average gain
of 5.5 percent for 1,160 European securities with a market value
of above 500 million euros tracked by Bloomberg.  Meanwhile,  Enel SpA ’s disposal of its remaining 280.5
million-euro ($368 million) stake in  Terna Rete Elettrica
Nazionale SpA  also drew demand from U.S. investors, which made
up about 20 percent of the orders and had previously shunned
 Italy , according to UniCredit, which helped manage the offering.  “I wouldn’t have expected that just a few weeks ago,”
Christian Steffens, UniCredit’s co-head of global  capital
markets , said in a phone interview. “The coming weeks will be
decisive for companies that decide to brave markets with an IPO
in March, April. Companies will only brave it if  Greece 
settles.”  Postponed IPOs  Greek political leaders announced an agreement today on
austerity measures, clearing the way for a deal to cut the
nation’s debt and win its second rescue in two years.  In the first half of 2011,  Glencore International Plc  led
European IPOs to raise $23 billion, before the region’s debt
crisis made stock markets plunge and higher volatility led
investors to shun IPOs.  Siemens AG ’s lighting unit Osram AG and
 Spain ’s national lottery operator Sociedad Estatal Loterias &
Apuestas del Estado SA were among the companies that postponed
IPO plans in the second half of 2011.  “Much like last year, it will be a year with stops and
starts of activity,” said Steffens. “We could see a good phase
for three or four months now.”  Additional share sales have surged recently, led by the
$1.7 billion stock offering in January from  Repsol YPF SA ,
Spain’s biggest oil company. Madrid-based Repsol sold the shares
to pursue an exploration drive.  Abertis Infraestructuras SA ,
Spain’s biggest toll-road operator, sold part of its stake in
Paris-based satellite company  Eutelsat Communications SA  for
about $1.2 billion.  A  Centrica Plc  shareholder, the Malaysian oil producer
Petroliam Nasional Bhd., started selling its entire stake in the
British energy company yesterday, which may raise as much as 594
million pounds ($941 million), according to terms of the sale
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Substantial Pipeline  While Europe’s IPO market remains slow, its pipeline is
substantial, with about 20 companies looking to raise more than
$1 billion each in their new stock sales this year, according to
data compiled by Bank of America Corp.  Credit Suisse Group AG  is this year’s biggest equity
underwriter in Europe, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
today. It’s followed by  UBS AG ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co  and  Societe
Generale. (GLE)   “IPOs tend to lag the overall activity as they require a
longer period of market stability,” said Stefan Weiner,
JPMorgan’s London-based head of equity capital markets for
Germany, Austria and  Switzerland . “That said, if the positive
sentiment continues, we may see IPO windows open again before
the summer break.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  