-- UnitedHealth Will Tie Doctors’ Payments to Quality of Care in U.S. Shift
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-02-09T21:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/unitedhealth-overhauls-doctor-payments-by-tying-them-to-quality-of-care.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the largest
U.S. health insurer by sales, will pay doctors based on the
quality of their care in a cost-cutting effort that also
benefits the company’s consulting business.  UnitedHealth expects to save twice as much as it would
spend on incentive payments for doctors because patients will be
healthier, according to company documents forwarded by
spokeswoman Cheryl Randolph. The program may cover as much as 70
percent of the insurer’s commercial members by 2015, from less
than 2 percent now, the company said.  The nationwide expansion of the program follows similar
efforts by the U.S. government and rival insurers to trim
medical costs by shifting away from paying based on the amount
of services provided. Optum, UnitedHealth’s services business,
will be able to sell software, data and consulting to providers
making the changes, Sam Ho, chief clinical officer of the
insurer’s UnitedHealthcare unit, said in an interview.  “This changes the business model, changes the reward and
payment system for better care and better health at lower
cost,” Ho said. “There is coordination between our programs
and strategies so that Optum knows how to provide services.”  Hospitals and doctors will see their costs fall through the
program, UnitedHealth said.  Optum’s Cash  Optum’s revenue increased 21 percent to $28.7 billion in
2011. The unit’s services “will become even more valuable” as
providers increasingly share responsibility for managing costs,
Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hemsley said on a Jan. 19
conference call.  The Optum arm is supporting the growth of the insurance
business, said  Sheryl Skolnick , an analyst with CRT Capital
Group in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “The market’s having trouble grasping all the changes and
why they’re so important to health care and the payment delivery
system,” Skolnick said.  The message to  Wall Street  is, ‘Wake
up -- this is where you’re seeing Optum.’”  UnitedHealth’s benefits business is doing well, with lower
costs and growing membership, because the provider also is
changing its risk management and services in a broken system,
Skolnick said. The nationwide expansion will make a leader in
coordinating patient care by aligning the financial incentives
of doctors, hospitals and the insurers who pay for those
services, she said.  WellPoint’s Effort  WellPoint Inc. announced a similar move last month, and
related programs were included in the 2010 health care law.  UnitedHealth rose 1.8 percent to $53.05 at 4 p.m. New York
time. The shares have gained 26 percent in the past 12 months.  WellPoint (WLP) , the largest U.S. health insurer by membership,
is implementing a program that will increase pay to primary care
doctors by 10 percent. The Indianapolis-based company said by
spending on a patient’s basic help up front, more expensive care
like visits to the emergency room would decrease.  Humana Inc. (HUM)  purchased Concentra Inc. and is integrating
into physician clinics.  Aetna Inc. (AET)  has been acquiring
information technology companies to learn about customers to
provide more concentrated care.  The shift in payments is being implemented as UnitedHealth
and WellPoint forecast an increase in demand for medical
services this year. The insurers benefited last year as
Americans concerned about unemployment hovering near 9 percent
put off seeing doctors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net 
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  