-- Elon Musk Anticipates Third IPO in Three Years With SpaceX
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-02-11T00:26:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/musk-sees-good-chance-of-spacex-stock-offering-by-next-year.html
Elon Musk , chief executive officer
of Space Exploration Technologies Corp., wants the private
rocket-launch business to have an initial public offering in
2013, the entrepreneur’s third such sale in about three years.  “There’s a good chance that SpaceX goes public next
year,” Musk, 40, said yesterday in an interview at the
company’s headquarters in Hawthorne, California, without
elaborating.  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , Musk’s electric-car company, sold shares
for the first time in 2010. SolarCity Corp., a developer of
rooftop solar-power systems of which Musk is chairman, is also
preparing to file for an IPO this year, three people with
knowledge of the matter have said.  SpaceX has contracts to launch satellites and is scheduled
to begin shipping cargo to the International Space Station in
April. Musk started the company in 2002 with money from that
year’s IPO of PayPal Inc., which he co-founded, and the
subsequent sale of his stake in the Internet-payment company
when it was acquired by  EBay (EBAY)  Inc.  “SpaceX, in terms of launches awarded, is the world leader
in space launch,” Musk said. “We’re beating the Russians, the
Chinese, the Europeans, everyone.”  Clayton Mowry, president of Arianespace Inc., the U.S.
affiliate of  Europe ’s Arianespace satellite and rocket launch
company, said in an e-mail his company has more than three years
of orders for launches with a total value of 4.6 billion euros
($6.07 billion).  “Despite claims by Elon Musk, Arianespace is far and away
the leading commercial launch supplier in the world,” he said.  Kirstin Grantham, a spokeswoman for SpaceX, wasn’t
immediately able to comment.  Billionaire Bound  Tesla, known for its all-electric Roadster sports car, is
to begin delivering rechargeable Model S sedans to customers
starting in about mid-2012 and late yesterday unveiled its Model
X, a battery-powered sport-utility vehicle. Tesla’s 2010 IPO was
the first for a U.S. automaker in more than 50 years.  Tesla, which counts  Daimler AG (DAI) ,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and
 Panasonic Corp. (6752)  as investors, fell 4.5 percent to $31.10 at the
close in  New York , as broader markets declined. The  stock  has
risen 8.9 percent this year.  “There’s nothing this guy can’t do,” said film director
 Jon Favreau , who gave Musk a cameo role in “Iron Man 2,” at
the unveiling of the Tesla Model X in Hawthorne. Favreau said
he’s on the waiting list for a Model S sedan.  SolarCity Filing  SolarCity, based in  San Mateo , California, may file with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as early as next
month, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the matter is private. The IPO may value the company at
more than $1.5 billion, the person said.  The offerings could catapult Musk into the ranks of the
world’s billionaires. He owns a 26 percent stake in Tesla valued
at more than $650 million, after adjusting for collateralized
shares. His 25 percent of SolarCity would be valued at $375
million at the valuation the company is seeking.  Musk owns more than 70 million shares of closely held
rocket maker SpaceX.  Recent transactions in the private market have pegged his
stake in SpaceX at about $875 million.  Separately, Musk unveiled a Tesla battery-powered sport-
utility vehicle the company plans to deliver next year on the
heels of its Model S sedan. The SUV has so-called gull-wing
doors -- described by Musk as “falcon wings” -- that swing
open upward, reminiscent of auto designer John DeLorean’s
namesake DeLorean DMC-12 sports car from the early 1980s,
featured in the “Back to the Future” movies.  Model X  The Model X, touted by Tesla as quicker than  Porsche AG (PAH3) ’s
911 sports car and roomier than Audi AG’s Q7 SUV, will be built
in 2013 at the company’s Fremont, California, plant that starts
making the Model S this year. Deliveries will begin late next
year, and increase throughout 2014, Musk said in an interview.  “The sensible thing to do is to extend the platform of the
Model S into other applications, and the next application
logically is the SUV/minivan arena,” Musk said yesterday. “For
relatively little  capital investment , maybe between a third and
half of what we spent on Model S, we can bring the Model X to
market.”  Tesla, based in  Palo Alto , California, seeks to become a
dominant seller of premium electric vehicles and has said it
expects Model S sales to help the company become profitable by
as early as next year.  The company began taking reservations for Model X, a seven-
passenger crossover that shares a platform and battery system
with Model S.  California  Governor  Jerry Brown  attended the debut
of the Model X at Tesla’s design studio in Hawthorne, next to
SpaceX headquarters.  “There’s a rocket ship next door, and you know as
‘Governor Moonbeam’ I like rocket ships,” Brown said, referring
to his nickname from the late 1970s when he first served as
governor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  