-- Mutual Fund Investors Should Crack Down on Closet Indexers: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-09T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/mutual-fund-investors-should-lead-the-crackdown-on-closet-indexers-view.html
In the world of investing, a label
can mean a lot. The mere designation of a country as “emerging”
can be worth billions of dollars in capital inflows.  As Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its March issue,
investors have plowed more than $750 billion into funds
benchmarked to emerging-market indexes. No wonder  Israel , whose
per capita economic output exceeds  Italy ’s, doesn’t want to be
labeled “developed” for the purposes of bond investors.  The power of the emerging label to move money also serves
as an indictment of the way many so-called active fund managers
do their jobs. By abdicating to index administrators the
responsibility for defining what is emerging, and by allowing
such designations to dictate investment decisions, active fund
managers are essentially running passive funds while charging
fees as if they were managing something.  The phenomenon is pervasive.  Research  by Antti Petajisto, a
former New York University economist who now works for the
investment firm BlackRock, shows that as of 2009, nearly a third
of all the money in actively managed U.S.-focused mutual funds
was run by “closet indexers,” whose investments tend to mimic
the composition of a benchmark index. That adds up to about $520
billion, far surpassing the amount invested in stock index
funds.  Closet indexing is great for managers, as it guarantees
their performance won’t fall too far behind the benchmarks by
which they are judged. Unfortunately, it’s very costly for
investors. The average closet indexer had an expense ratio of
1.05 percent of assets. That compares with roughly 0.29 percent
for the largest U.S. equity index funds. Over 10 years on an
investment of $100,000 earning 10 percent a year, that
difference would add up to almost $19,000.  A quick look at 253 funds benchmarked to the  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index (MXEF)  suggests many of them are not as active as they
purport to be. As of late January, the performance of 75
actively managed funds was strikingly similar to that of the
 Vanguard Emerging Markets Stock Index Fund (VEIEX) , which tracks the
index. (Over the previous year, their monthly tracking error was
equal to or less than that of the index fund.) For those that
reported an expense ratio, the average was 1.53 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Vanguard fund, by
comparison, charged just 0.35 percent.  What to do? Laziness can’t be outlawed. Dumping active
managers in favor of index funds isn’t necessarily the solution,
either. Petajisto’s research shows that, on average, managers
who went to the trouble of building portfolios that differed
from the benchmark indexes performed well enough to justify the
fees they charged.  Hence, it’s up to investors to make sure they’re getting
their money’s worth. Funds that charge fees for nothing
shouldn’t have any assets to manage. What’s amazing is that so
many still do.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 