-- Vanity Fair Oscar Party Invites Draw $100,000 Prices at Charity Auctions
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-02-09T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/vanity-fair-oscar-party-invites-draw-100-000-prices-at-charity-auctions.html
If your invitation to the  Vanity Fair 
Oscar party hasn’t arrived, there’s still hope.  Charitybuzz.com, which runs auctions for nonprofits and
philanthropic causes, is offering two tickets to the bash the
magazine throws after the Academy Awards. The bidding ends Feb.
20, six days before the event, with proceeds going to a Los
Angeles charter school. The highest tender so far: $16,000.  Only 500 people are invited and requests to be on the list
come in by the hundreds, according to  Graydon Carter , Vanity
Fair’s editor. “Let’s just say that a few weeks before the
party, the staff of Vanity Fair is everyone’s best friend,” he
said in an e-mail.  The party, at the Sunset Tower Hotel, last year drew
celebrities including  Mick Jagger ,  Natalie Portman ,  Tom Hanks 
and  Quentin Tarantino , according to a  slide show  on the
magazine’s website. Guests linger until 3 a.m. “hatching deals,
exchanging business cards, flirting, lying about how they loved
the other person’s last movie,” Carter wrote in 2005 article.  There have been fistfights, gatecrashers discreetly
escorted away and stars whose behavior insured they wouldn’t be
asked back. “We have a crack security team who don’t put up
with a lot of guff,” Carter said in the e-mail.  The guest list, the product of months of deliberation by
magazine editors, includes the usual Hollywood suspects as well
as personalities from the worlds of music, literature, sports
and politics. Carter said he was pleased tickets were available
on Charitybuzz. “I think it’s wonderful that the party can do
some good,” he said. Asked how much it costs to put on the
affair, he said, “Not as much as it looks.”  ‘Celeb-Studded’  Charitybuzz is also auctioning what it calls “almost
impossible-to-get tickets” to a Feb. 25 pre-Oscars party hosted
by producers Harvey and  Bob Weinstein . The brothers’ independent
studio, Weinstein Co., last year had a best-movie win with “The
King’s Speech,” and this year their film “The Artist” has  10
nominations , including for best picture. Bidding for what the
website describes as a “celeb-studded” blowout that would
benefit Hamilton College in Clinton,  New York , ends at 4 p.m.
New York time today. The top offer is $8,250.  “Offering invitations to otherwise private events to help
raise money for organizations or individuals in need is
something we’ve always been proud to take part in,” a Weinstein
Co. spokeswoman said.  Revelry dates to the first Academy Awards, a black-tie
banquet at the Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel in 1929. Agent Irving
“Swifty” Lazar hosted invitation-only get-togethers that were
the hottest tickets in town for more than  three decades  until
his death in 1993.  ‘Warm Glow’  The 3,330 invites to the awards show are distributed to
members of its sponsor, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and
Sciences, and to nominees and presenters. The academy doesn’t
offer tickets for auctions and monitors websites such as
eBay.com and craigslist.org to make sure they aren’t resold,
according to Teni Melidonian, a spokeswoman for the academy.  Vanity Fair makes a limited number of invitations available
each year for charity, according to Beth Kseniak, a spokeswoman
for the magazine, and they have raised over $3 million for
causes including breast cancer research. Last year, Charitybuzz
sold the magazine party and one sponsored by the Elton John AIDS
Foundation as package to benefit the  Natural Resources Defense
Council , an environmental group. A bidder whose name wasn’t
disclosed paid $100,000.  Selling a handful of invites greatly increases their worth,
said Peter Hans Matthews, an economist at Middlebury College in
Middlebury,  Vermont , who has studied auctions. That the money is
going to charity gives bidders a “warm glow,” he said, though
their desire to “see and be seen” adds to the value too.  ‘Love Movies’  John’s party, now in its 20th year, will be at a West
Hollywood park. Tickets begin at $3,500, according to Christina
Lee, a spokeswoman for the foundation. The singer will hold a
live auction for invitations for two to ride with him and his
partner, David Furnish, at midnight from his party to the Vanity
Fair soiree. That went last year for $70,000 to an undisclosed
bidder, Lee said.  Miriam Forman, a 40-year-old paralegal from  Chicago , said
she’ll be at the event this year, having won two tickets on
Charitybuzz in November. The proceeds went to the New York-based
Gay Lesbian & Straight Education Network, which develops
programs to prevent harassment in schools.  “I love movies and I grew up listening to Elton John’s
music and going to his concerts,” said Forman. She said she
wants to meet Octavia Spencer and Melissa McCarthy, best
supporting actress nominees for “The Help” and
“Bridesmaids,” respectively.  Forman declined to say how much she paid. “I don’t like to
bid and tell,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  