-- Vodafone Sweeps All Spare Cash Out of Greece ‘Every Evening’
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-02-09T16:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/vodafone-sweeps-all-spare-cash-out-of-greece-into-u-k-every-evening-.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  is moving cash
from Greece into the U.K. “every evening” and could bill in a
different currency, mirroring efforts by  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (SAN) ,
 WPP Plc (WPP)  and  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/)  to hedge against the
European debt crisis.  Asked about the possibility of a Greek default, Chief
Financial Officer Andy Halford said on a conference call today
that “it’s obviously something we’ve been having a close look
at.” Vodafone, the world’s biggest mobile-phone company, is
also looking at billing in a different currency “if the
situation arises.”  The cash sweep by Newbury, England-based Vodafone shows how
U.K. companies are trying to protect themselves against
potential writedowns and losses in countries using the euro.
Drugmaker GlaxoSmithKline started repatriating cash held in most
euro-area banks early last year. WPP Finance Director  Paul Richardson  said yesterday that the biggest advertising company
rounds up excess euros from its banks in  Europe  and moves them
to the U.S. where they are exchanged for dollars every day.  “What would happen if the guillotine were to come down?”
Richardson said in an interview. “Everyone has had a very close
look at in-country arrangements and people have taken legal
advice,” he said, adding that WPP “feels reassured that we’re
in as good a position as we could be if one of the countries had
a massive writedown.”  Contagion  Greece faces a 14.5 billion-euro ($19.3 billion) bond
payment on March 20 and is struggling to secure financing to
avert a collapse of the economy that could spark a new round of
contagion in the euro. Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos heads to Brussels today after politicians failed to
finalize new austerity measures needed to secure a 130 billion
euro bailout package.  Talks stumbled over the issue of pension cuts and officials
from the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  gave
Greece 15 more days to identify measures totaling 300 million
euros.  Reckitt Benckiser, the Slough, England-based maker of
 Dettol handwash  and  Nurofen painkillers , is “sucking out cash”
from its euro operations on a daily basis due to fears of a
liquidity crisis, Chief Executive Officer Rakesh Kapoor told
reporters in a briefing yesterday. “We have always swept up
cash from Europe into the group and we have increased the
frequency of that,” CFO Liz Doherty said on a conference call.  ‘Tens of Millions’  GlaxoSmithKline, the U.K.’s largest drugmaker, moves “tens
of millions of pounds” in cash every day out of banks in Europe
into accounts in the U.K., CEO  Andrew Witty  said Feb. 7.  “We don’t leave any cash in most European countries,”
excluding  Germany , Witty said. “Any cash that we bring in
during the day gets swept out of the local banks into banks that
we think are robust and secure.”  Every evening, Vodafone “sweeps all the spare cash” out
of Greece and other markets into the U.K., Halford said today.  While the daily cash movement hedges Vodafone, the company
had been transferring money from its operations abroad to the
U.K. on a daily basis even before the European debt crisis
started, a Vodafone spokesman said after the conference call.  Vodafone today reported slowing service revenue growth for
the three month through December, missing analyst estimates, as
consumers in  Greece ,  Spain , Italy and Portugal cut spending.  Failed Merger  This week, Vodafone abandoned an attempt to merge its Greek
unit with rival Wind Hellas after facing European Union
regulatory opposition. A successful merger would have allowed
Vodafone to reduce costs and better compete in the country with
 Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA (OTE) , or OTE, which is
controlled by Deutsche Telekom AG.  OTE told investors in November that it has moved cash not
needed as working capital to international banks within and
outside Greece.  Vodafone in November booked an impairment loss of 450
million pounds for its business in Greece, citing lower  cash
flow  and an increase in discount rates. In the year-earlier
period, Vodafone had already lowered the value of its Greek
operations by 800 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net 
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  