-- Vodafone Quarterly Service Sales Growth Slows on Italy, Spain
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-02-09T07:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/vodafone-service-sales-growth-slows-in-third-quarter-on-italy-spain-cuts.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s
largest mobile-phone company, said service revenue growth slowed
in the fiscal third-quarter as consumers in Spain and Italy cut
spending amid the European sovereign debt crisis.  Service revenue excluding currency swings and acquisitions
in the three months through December gained 0.9 percent, after
rising 1.3 percent in the prior quarter, the company said today.
Analysts had estimated growth of 1.1 percent, according to a
Bloomberg survey. Service sales include voice, data, messaging
and broadband services. They exclude handsets and accessories.  “Despite the further deterioration of the southern
European economic environment during the quarter, our broad
geographic mix is delivering a resilient overall performance,”
Chief Executive Officer Vittorio Colao said in the statement.  Vodafone, based in Newbury, England, has sought to drive
data sales from smartphones including  Apple Inc (APPL) .’s iPhone and
handsets running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software to counter
declining European service revenue. In Spain, Vodafone has cut
prices in the country, as it contends with the highest
 unemployment rate  in Europe.  Vodafone in November 2010 said service revenue will grow in
the range of 1 percent to 4 percent in the next three years.  Colao, a former McKinsey & Co. partner who became Vodafone
CEO in 2008, said in November he will start a new push to cut
costs to cushion the impact of Europe’s economic slowdown.  This week,  Vodafone Group  abandoned an attempt to merge its
Greek unit with rival Wind Hellas after facing European Union
regulatory opposition. A successful merger would have allowed
Vodafone to reduce costs and better compete in the country with
Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA, or OTE, which is
controlled by Deutsche Telekom AG.  Vodafone in November booked an impairment loss of 450
million pounds ($710 million) for its business in  Greece , citing
lower  cash flow  and an increase in discount rates. In the year-
earlier period, Vodafone had already lowered the value of its
Greek operations by 800 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  