-- Watson CEO Seeks Brand-Drug Profits in Shift From Copycats
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-02-09T21:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/watson-ceo-seeks-transformational-deal-in-brand-name-drugs.html
Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  Chief
Executive Officer  Paul Bisaro  is looking to acquire brand-name
drug assets and make a future “‘transformational” purchase as
he reshapes the generic-drug maker.  Bisaro, 51, said in an interview he wants to use an
estimated $6 billion the company will have  available  for
acquisitions to invest in brand-name medicines with the
potential for greater growth and consistent returns. Watson will
consider drugs for gender-specific conditions as it builds
toward a “big brand deal” to supplement its generic lines.  “Everything we need to be a branded pharma company we
have, except for the sales force,” the Watson executive said.
“And we can create that.”  While medicines with $48 billion in annual sales face
generic rivals for the first time in 2012, fattening revenue for
generic-drug makers, the figure will fall to an annual average
of $24 billion the next three years, according to IMS Health
Inc., a Danbury, Connecticut-based researcher. Watson’s strategy
resembles actions by  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  as
generic-drug makers, which profit by copying the medicines of
brand-name pharmaceutical companies, start to imitate the
business models of those companies too.  “It’s a real blurring of the lines,” said  Jeff Jonas , an
analyst with Gabelli & Co., in Rye, New York. By 2015, such
drugmakers may end up “looking a lot more like a brand than a
generic,” Jonas said in a telephone interview. The firm has a
“buy” rating on Parsippany, New Jersey-based Watson, the
world’s fourth-largest company whose main business is generics.  Five-Year Performance  Watson rose less than 1 percent to $58.25 at the close of
New York trading. The shares have more than doubled in the last
five years, compared with a 7 percent decline in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 stock index and a 30 percent gain for Teva. Of 25
Watson analysts tracked by Bloomberg, 15 recommend buying the
shares and 10 say “hold.”  Teva, based in Petach Tikva,  Israel , the world’s largest
generic-drug maker, is one of the first to find success with
exclusive medicines. The company’s biggest winner has been
Copaxone, a treatment Teva developed for multiple sclerosis. The
product surged to $3.32 billion in  sales  in 2010, from $247
million a decade earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Faced with the prospect of generic competition for Copaxone
beginning in May 2014, Teva acquired Cephalon Inc. in October to
gain drugs -- such as Fentura pills to treat cancer pain -- that
still benefit from patent protection. The transaction was valued
at $6.8 billion, including assumed debt.  Market Exclusivity  The appeal of the branded-drug business comes from the
returns it offers on exclusive products. In the U.S. companies
that invent new drugs get a combination of patent protection and
exclusive sales rights when they bring the drugs to market.
After those protections run out, the generic drug makers can
file with regulators to sell copycat versions without paying
royalties to the inventors.  Patent and exclusivity periods vary by country, and in the
U.S. can be extended if the drugmaker finds new uses for their
product. Brand-name medicines enjoy about 12 years on the market
before copycat versions become available, according to study
published in 2007 in Managerial & Decision Economics.  Generic drug companies are rewarded for being the first to
start the process of making a copycat version. The first company
to successfully challenge the patent protection gets 180 days of
exclusive rights to sell the generic version, typically at a
price not much lower than the brand.  Price Decline  Once the first generic company loses its head start, others
can enter the market and the price falls further. “You know
there’s going to be a certain amount of price decline and unit
decline” in the generics business, Bisaro said.  Watson had $2.19 billion in  revenue  related to generics in
the first nine months of 2011, dwarfing its $320.1 million from
global brands, according to a company filing.  That may change, for Watson has the pieces in place to
become more like traditional pharmaceutical companies, such as
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , Bisaro said.  He’s aware of the perils, though. “Generic companies in
the past, their mistake has been to run their business like they
run their generics model, which is pretty opportunistic,”
Bisaro said. “With brands, you have to pass on those things
that, even though you like the idea, if it’s not in your
wheelhouse and you don’t have the sales force, you probably
ought not to spend the money on it.”  Acquisition History  Since Bisaro took over as CEO and president in September
2007, Watson has completed or announced  nine acquisitions , with
a total value of $2.84 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The biggest was the $1.75 billion purchase of Arrow
Group, a generic-drug maker, in 2009. Watson paid AU$375 million
($405 million) last month for Ascent Pharmahealth Ltd., an
Australian maker of copycat pills.  In July 2010, Watson bolstered its position in brands by
acquiring Columbia Laboratories Inc.’s progesterone assets.  Watson will limit its focus to a few clinical areas,
according to Bisaro.  “We have a lot of goodwill built up in the urology space
and we’re getting there in the women’s health space,” he said.
He might also see opportunities in oncology, such as bladder
cancer or malignancies specific to women.  ‘Stronger Position’  With more growth in coming years, Watson may be “in a much
stronger position to buy a bigger specialty-brand company,”
Bisaro said. “That would be a very nice scenario if it worked
out that way.”  For Watson, it’s catch-up time, said Michael Faerm, an
analyst with Credit Suisse in  New York . He rates Watson’s shares
“outperform.”  Teva “has been doing this for quite some time,” Faerm
said in a telephone interview. About a third of Teva’s revenue
now comes from branded drugs, he said.  The company has 20 medicines in the last of three phases of
testing before regulatory approval, including products to treat
pain, cancer and auto-immune disease, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Copaxone, the multiple sclerosis drug, accounted for 24
percent of sales in the 2011 third-quarter, according to the
data. The product will see revenue peak this year, William Marth, president of Teva’s Americas unit, said at a conference
in  San Francisco  in January.  Teva has tapped Jeremy Levin to become CEO, starting in
May. He spent four years doing business development at Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co., and held a similar job at Novartis AG before
that. Levin may end up competing with his former employers for
deals, according to Faerm, the Credit Suisse analyst.  Levin “brings important strengths to the company on the
branded side -- the most obvious being deal-making,” Faerm
said.  Teva will be a balanced company whose only bias is toward
the best growth opportunities, Marth said. Brands will play an
important role, as will stepping up sales in  emerging markets 
such as  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and  China , he said.  “To me, that’s the market, that’s where we’re going,”
Marth said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  