-- Wharton MBA Program Opens New West Coast Campus in Hunt for Startup Appeal
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-02-10T01:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/wharton-opens-new-west-coast-campus-in-search-of-startup-appeal.html
The  University of Pennsylvania ’s
 Wharton School , the 131-year-old business school in
Philadelphia, is counting on a new West Coast campus to raise
its high-tech profile.  For a decade, the school operated a little-known San
Francisco outpost in the former headquarters of Folgers Coffee.
The new site, a block from the Bay Bridge, is 37,000 square feet
(3,440 square meters) and more closely resembles the area’s
Internet startups, with high ceilings, exposed brick and the
latest videoconferencing equipment.  The campus, which opened last month, is part of Wharton’s
effort to attract aspiring technology entrepreneurs to its
master’s in business administration program for executives. Most
students in the program,  ranked  first in 2011 by U.S. News &
World Report, are in Wharton’s hometown of Philadelphia. The new
location can accommodate 150 students, a 50 percent increase
from the old building.  “This is a much more entrepreneurial and innovation-driven
area,” said Bernadette Birt, chief operating officer of the
program. The new campus also fosters a spirit of teamwork, she
said. “They hang out together. They relax here as well and get
all their work done together.”  Silicon Valley  East Coast business schools are increasingly looking to
shore up their West Coast ties, either through satellite
campuses or partnerships with other institutions. In addition to
letting them draw local students, the programs provide easier
access to the world’s biggest technology companies, including
Apple Inc., Google Inc., Facebook Inc., Oracle Corp. and Intel
Corp. New York’s  Columbia University  offers an  executive MBA
program  with the  University of California , Berkeley.  The new Wharton West is located on the sixth floor of the
 Hills Plaza  building on the Embarcadero, the street that borders
San Francisco’s eastern waterfront. The school signed a 10-year
lease in June and spent the next six months on renovations. The
changes included the removal of four columns to create enough
classroom space, and the installation of a plumbing and
electricity system designed to achieve a gold rating by the U.S.
Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental
Design  standards .  “The aesthetics of the space is this blend of trying to
bring a traditional approach from Wharton at Penn and blending
it with a more open-ceiling, entrepreneurial garage space,”
said Douglas Zucker, principal at Gensler, the architecture firm
that designed the campus. People are “coming here because they
want to start a company.”  Cross-Country Professors  Like a full-time MBA program, Wharton’s executive MBA
degree takes two years to complete. Students from across the
country come together every other weekend for classes that
typically start on Friday morning and end Saturday evening,
allowing them to keep their full-time jobs.  The program isn’t cheap. Annual tuition runs students
$48,550, which is in line with the other top executive MBA
programs in the country, according to U.S. News & World Report.
Adding in hotel expenses, books and meals, the  San Francisco 
program costs a total of $173,940, or $86,970 a year.  The school has more than a dozen professors that fly in
from Philadelphia as part of their total course load. John Percival has been making the cross-country commute since the San
Francisco school first opened 10 years ago to teach an
introductory course in corporate finance.  ‘Better Mood’  “The high ceilings, open air and looking out the windows
just puts everybody in a better mood, including the faculty,”
Percival, 65, said in an interview from the dining room
overlooking the  San Francisco Bay .  Part of the San Francisco allure is the proximity to
entrepreneurs and venture capitalists. Since the new campus
opened, guest speakers have included Duncan Logan, chief
executive officer of technology incubator  RocketSpace Inc. , and
Jay Jamison, a partner at BlueRun Ventures.  Muckai Girish, a Wharton student who works as a vice
president at chipmaker  Entropic Communications Inc. (ENTR) , expects the
new campus to put the school on Silicon Valley’s radar.  “In the old building, not too many people knew about
Wharton here because it was hidden away,” Girish said. “This
gives us an identity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  