-- Wholesale Inventories in U.S. Increase More Than Forecast
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-02-09T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/wholesale-inventories-in-u-s-increase-more-than-forecast.html
Inventories at U.S. wholesalers rose
more than forecast in December as companies scurried to keep up
with the biggest sales increase in nine months.  The 1 percent advance in  stockpiles  exceeded the median
forecast of 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and followed
little change in November, Commerce Department data showed today
in Washington. Purchases climbed 1.3 percent, the most since
March, on growing demand for machinery and clothing.  At the current sales pace, wholesalers had  enough  goods on
hand to last 1.15 months, the same as in the prior four months,
the report showed. The need to replenish stockpiles, which helped
the economy grow last quarter at the fastest pace in more than a
year, may keep contributing to the expansion in early 2012.  “There could be a significant need for further accumulation
in the current quarter, especially if demand is firming,”  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities in  New
York , said in a note before the report. “The need to restock
inventories may actually be increasing.”  The  median  projection in the Bloomberg survey was a 0.4
percent gain. Estimates ranged from increases of 0.1 percent to
1 percent. The November figure was revised from a previously
reported 0.1 percent gain.  Wholesalers’ stockpiles of durable goods, or those meant to
last several years, increased 0.7 percent, boosted by automobiles
and machinery, today’s report showed. Sales of machinery
increased 5.2 percent, the biggest gain since April 2005.  The value of unsold non-durable goods climbed 1.3 percent as
sales advanced 0.4 percent. Demand for clothing jumped 5.3
percent, the most since November 2007.  Growth Pickup  The world’s largest economy expanded at a 2.8 percent annual
rate in the fourth quarter after a 1.8 percent pace in the prior
three months, Commerce Department figures showed on Jan. 27.
Growth excluding a jump in inventories was 0.8 percent.
Stockpiles were rebuilt at a $56 billion annual pace, adding 1.9
percentage points to growth.  The surge in stockpiles last quarter followed a reduction in
the July through September period amid mounting concern that
 Europe ’s debt crisis would restrain demand at a time the U.S.
labor market was struggling to pick up.  Labor Department figures last week indicated demand may get
a boost. Payrolls climbed by 243,000 workers in January, the
biggest increase in nine months, and the  unemployment rate  fell
to 8.3 percent, the lowest since February 2009.  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXT) , the second-largest U.S. chipmaker,
is among companies rebuilding stockpiles to prepare for an
increase in sales.  More in Stock  “We’re keeping inventory higher,”  Ron Slaymaker , vice
president at the Dallas-based company, said on a Feb. 7
conference call with analysts. “We’re much better positioned to
support a wave of demand when it comes.”  Wholesalers make up about 30 percent of all business
stockpiles. Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent
of the total, rose 0.1 percent in December, Commerce Department
data showed on Feb. 3. Retail stockpiles, which make up the rest,
will be included in the business inventories report due on Feb.
14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net 
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  