-- Why Policies to Cut Energy Use Are Badly Designed: Brian Barry
-- B y   B r i a n   B a r r y
-- 2012-02-09T00:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/why-energy-cutting-policies-are-badly-designed-commentary-by-brian-barry.html
Most policy ideas for reducing demand
for energy rely on one of two claims about why consumers need to
be steered toward using less of it. Call these claims Flawed
People and Flawed Markets.  Flawed People consume too much energy if they do a poor job
of considering energy prices in their decisions, and thus make
bad choices about which cars and other energy-intensive products
will suit their tastes in the most cost-effective way. Flawed
Markets lead to too much energy use if people do a great job of
considering energy prices in their decisions, but those market
prices are too low to reflect the real costs to society. In this
case, people who make cost-effective choices for themselves
create negative spillovers for everyone else.  U.S. energy policy overstates the harm caused by Flawed
People, and does a poor job of identifying them and promoting
better outcomes. So this approach is largely ineffective. That
is the lesson of an excellent  new paper , by  Hunt Allcott  of  New
York University  and  Michael Greenstone  of the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology , which asks whether there is a large
“energy efficiency gap” in the U.S. That is, do many American
consumers and businesses cost themselves a lot of money by using
energy less efficiently than they would if they made smarter
decisions about cars, appliances, building insulation and so on?  Efficiency Gap  Many people believe -- and many policies are implicitly
based on the idea -- that there is such a gap, and that it is
huge. Drivers may not take full account, for example, of the
true costs to themselves of owning cars that guzzle more gas. If
this is a big problem, then policies that subsidize purchases of
fuel-efficient vehicles -- or that try to skew the relative cost
and range of choices that carmakers offer in ways that boost
efficiency -- may save energy and money at the same time.  Similar issues might arise in homes if people don’t
understand, or properly weigh, the advantages of more energy-
efficient appliances, or heating and air-conditioning units.  It is a good idea to be skeptical about such free lunches,
yet many American policy makers seem especially confident that
they are out there to be had so long as the food is transported
in a hybrid vehicle, cooked in an energy-saving oven and served
in a well-insulated restaurant. The U.S. thus employs a wide
range of costly policies to subsidize energy-efficient choices.
The tendency to exaggerate the ease of cutting energy use has
been exacerbated by studies that purport to show huge potential
savings.  A widely cited 2009 report by  McKinsey & Co.  claimed, for
example, that the U.S. could reduce energy use by 23 percent,
and save hundreds of billions of dollars, just by using more
efficient appliances and equipment in homes and factories, and
by better sealing the nation’s buildings. And that didn’t count
any potential savings from more fuel-efficient cars and trucks.  Allcott and Greenstone offer two good arguments to support
the view that most policies aimed at closing this perceived
energy-efficiency gap have been misguided and unhelpful.  First, they round up examples to show that many U.S
policies that try to close the gap don’t really save much. This
is largely because the efficiency shortfall isn’t even close to
being as wide, or as widespread, as many advocates of these
policies have argued.  Consider the subsidies that many electric utilities offer
consumers who buy energy-efficient appliances, heaters and air
conditioners. The most credible estimates, Allcott and
Greenstone point out, show that from 1992 to 2006 these
“demand-side management” programs lowered demand by maybe 1
percent to 2 percent, and that the energy conserved came at a
cost of between 8.5 cents and 10.4 cents per kilowatt-hour
saved. Since national prices averaged 9.1 cents per kilowatt-
hour, this doesn’t look like a great bargain. Another potential
source of inefficiency -- landlords who don’t do enough to shave
energy costs for their tenants -- also looks small, increasing
residential energy use by perhaps 1 percent.  Car Purchases  Or take cars. They cite a pair of clever studies (one
conducted by Allcott with a co-author) comparing the way new-
and used-car values respond to  changing gasoline prices . If gas
prices rise, for example, the price of fuel-efficient three-
year-old cars should increase relative to prices of three-year-
old gas-guzzlers.  This may not happen as much as it should, in which case
probably consumers aren’t devoting enough consideration to their
likely fuel costs when deciding how much to pay for their cars.
In any case, the cost of this oversight, if it exists, is small.
One study suggests that consumers aren’t leaving any potential
energy savings on the table; the other suggests that there may
be enough inefficiency to cost consumers between $1 and $20 per
car buyer each year.  In short, many consumers may be confused about the relative
energy costs of different cars, appliances and home-energy
options. But the potential savings from steering them in greener
directions using current policies seem puny. Those who enact
these policies, or predict their benefits, often ignore the
hidden costs of using or switching to energy-efficient models.  Policy makers also tend to prefer broad subsidies that fail
to account for the huge variation among consumers, only a small
segment of whom might be induced to change their behavior in a
cost-effective way.  Are there better policies to choose from? Here, Allcott and
Greenstone make another contribution by setting out the
distinction between inefficiencies and negative spillovers in
energy use. Narrowly targeted and better-designed policies could
conceivably achieve modest efficiency gains, but that would
require much clearer thinking about whom to reach and how.  Tax Policy  More importantly, the best way to solve the spillover
problem is to tax the externality -- in other words, raise the
private cost of using energy to reflect its real social cost.
Increasing the price of gasoline, for example, would influence
not only which cars people buy, but also whether they then
choose to consume less fuel after they have made their purchase.  Even if there is an argument for influencing consumers’
choice of car through additional policies on top of a tax, the
costs of Corporate Average Fuel Economy, or CAFE, standards
cannot be justified even remotely on these grounds.  (The two researchers are hardly alone among economists in
preferring a tax to CAFE standards. A diverse panel -- put
together by an initiative that I direct at  Chicago ’s Booth
School -- of Greenstone and 40 other economists from seven
universities recently considered this issue. They  agreed
overwhelmingly  that a tax on the carbon content of fuels would
be a less costly approach.)  Whether better policies are adopted, however, may hinge on
an analogous problem in politics. Has the U.S. pursued
ineffective approaches to energy conservation because its policy
makers are flawed people, in which case maybe they can be nudged
to consider better ideas and information? Or do their energy
policies show that politics is a flawed market, which inflicts
too little pain on officials when their choices impose negative
spillovers on the public?  (Brian Barry is a professor of economics and executive
director of the Initiative on Global Markets at the University
of Chicago Booth School of Business, and a contributor to
Business Class. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Brian Barry  at  Brianbarry.chi@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  