-- Wynn Resorts Hearing Over Financial Records Continued
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   V a l e r i e   M i l l e r
-- 2012-02-09T20:34:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/wynn-resorts-hearing-over-financial-records-access-continued-1-.html
(Corrects date of removal in fourth paragraph.)  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) ’s former Vice
Chairman Kazuo Okada must wait until Feb. 23 to find out whether
he can access the casino operator’s financial records, a Las
Vegas judge ruled, saying she needs more time to go over the
document requests in detail.  Nevada  state court judge Elizabeth Gonzales said at the
conclusion of a hearing today that she wants to look at Okada’s
requests to determine which ones are reasonable.  “The company has a right to determine each document
individually,” Gonzales said. A director’s right to review
company books is “limited under Nevada law,” she said.  Okada, who was removed as vice chairman in October, sued in
state court in  Clark County , Nevada, to force the company to
produce spending records. Okada, who is chairman of  Universal
Entertainment Corp. (6425) , Wynn’s largest shareholder, has $380
million invested in the casino operator dating back to 2000,
according to regulatory filings.  Kirk Lenhard, an attorney for Wynn, argued that Okada’s
request was premature as such actions should be brought before
the board of directors. The board should be allowed to review
the request at a meeting next month before the court rules,
Lenhard said.  Gidon Caine, an attorney for Okada, said the request was
about “good corporate governance.”  “We’re encouraged that the court saw Mr. Okada’s role as a
fiduciary as important,” Caine said after the hearing.  The case is Okada v. Wynn Resorts Ltd., A-12-654522-B,
District Court, Clark County, Nevada ( Las Vegas ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Valerie Miller in Las Vegas at  valeriemusicmagic@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  