-- Xstrata CEO Davis Starts Effort to Win Investor Backing for Glencore Deal
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-02-09T15:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/xstrata-ceo-davis-starts-effort-to-win-investor-backing-for-glencore-deal.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA)  Chief Executive Officer
 Mick Davis  has started meeting shareholders to seek support for
a $37.6 billion takeover by  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  that some
investors oppose.  Davis met yesterday in  London  with investors who rank
outside the 10 biggest holders, said Jane Coffey, head of
equities at Royal London Asset Management Ltd., which was
represented at the discussion. The firm holds about 0.4 percent
of Xstrata’s stock, data compiled by Bloomberg shows, worth 150
million pounds ($240 million). Xstrata declined to comment.  Xstrata is using its scheduled post-earnings briefings with
investors to also explain the merits of its all-share “merger
of equals” with 34 percent-shareholder Glencore. The Baar,
Switzerland-based commodities trader has offered 2.8 of its
shares for every one in Xstrata, a ratio that some analysts and
investors have said is too low a price for the coal producer.  “They’ve got to convince us that actually the combined
group is at least as good as the group we were holding before --
i.e. Xstrata,” Coffey said in a telephone interview today.
“And they don’t seem to be winning that battle.”  While Davis said Feb. 7 that a majority of the shareholders
he had spoken to before the transaction was announced backed the
combination, Standard Life Investments Ltd. and  Schroders Plc (SDR) ,
who together hold 3.5 percent, have said the proposed exchange
ratio undervalues Xstrata.  ‘Create Value’  “Relative to our valuation analysis, the merger terms
don’t necessarily recognize the stand-alone value of Xstrata
from the perspective of a one-time payment,” said  Jeff Largey ,
a mining analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in London. “But then
again, the deal is being structured as a shared vehicle to
create value for shareholders of the combined entity.”  After Glencore, the largest shareholders in Xstrata include
 Blackrock Inc. (BLK) , Legal & General Investment Management, Standard
Life Investments, State Street Global Advisors Inc., Norges
Bank and Scottish Widows Investment Partnership, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Blackrock, also a top-10 holder of Glencore stock, declined
to comment.  David Cumming , head of equities at Standard Life
Investments and  Richard Buxton , the head of U.K. equities at
Schroders, couldn’t be reached for comment today. A spokeswoman
for Vanguard Group Inc., which holds 1.2 percent of Xstrata
according to Bloomberg data, declined to comment.  Copper, Nickel, Ships  The deal would create the world’s fourth-largest mining
company, combining the largest supplier of coal burned by power
stations with Glencore’s global trading network. It would be the
third-largest copper producer and fourth-biggest nickel
supplier, have about $209 billion in annual sales, operations
and projects in 33 countries, with 101 mines, a fleet of more
than 200 vessels and about 130,000 employees.  Glencore won’t be allowed to vote its holding in Xstrata on
the merger, according to the U.K.’s takeover code, putting the
final decision into the hands of the shareholders who control
the rest of the company. That means 16.48 percent of Xstrata’s
shareholders hold the power to block the deal.  “The challenge for management is to convince Xstrata
shareholders that this deal is value-accretive for them,”
Macquarie’s Largey said. “They will likely burn a lot of shoe
leather meeting with investors as they push the case as to why a
merged Glencore-Xstrata makes sense and will create  shareholder
value .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  