-- Yuan Halts Gains on Greek Talks, Inflation Distorted by Holiday
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-02-09T08:59:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-09/yuan-halts-gains-on-greek-talks-inflation-distorted-by-holiday.html
The yuan halted a two-day gain as
Greek leaders struggled to agree on economic measures needed for
a second aid package and Lunar New Year price increases pushed
up  China ’s inflation rate.  Asian currencies weakened after Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  and party leaders agreed on all the points of the
program except one which required discussion, according to an e-
mailed statement from his office.  Consumer prices  climbed 4.5
percent in January from a year earlier, the National Bureau of
Statistics said today. That compares with the 4.1 percent
increase in December and the 4 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of economists.  “As the Lunar New Year, which pushes up food prices,
happened to be in January this year, investors should wait for
February data to get a clearer picture on inflation,” said
Banny Lam, a Hong Kong-based economist at CCB International
Securities Ltd., a unit of China’s second-largest bank. “The
lack of progress in  Greece  disappoints investors and is bad for
 market sentiment .”  The yuan closed at 6.2952 per dollar in Shanghai, little
changed from yesterday’s 6.2945, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. The People’s Bank of China set the fixing
0.03 percent stronger at 6.3009 per dollar, the highest level
since Jan. 4. The currency is allowed to trade 0.5 percent on
either side of the daily fixing.  China’s exports probably declined in January, Commerce
Minister  Chen Deming  said in a written response to questions
from Bloomberg News today.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan declined 0.08
percent to 6.2920. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards were
little changed at 6.2565, a 0.6 percent premium to the onshore
spot rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  