-- ABB Hires Spiesshofer as CEO as Hogan Makes Gradual Exit
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-06-17T07:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/abb-hires-spiesshofer-as-chief-as-hogan-makes-gradual-exit.html
ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s largest
supplier of power grids, said Ulrich Spiesshofer will become
chief executive officer, an internal promotion of a manager who
integrated the Swiss company’s largest acquisition.  Spiesshofer will replace Joe Hogan, who last month said
he’ll step down for private reasons after five years at the helm
of the Swiss company. Hogan will continue as adviser and
Spiesshofer will take over on Sept. 15., Zurich-based ABB said
today in a statement.  The new CEO needs to integrate $10 billion worth of
acquisitions in the U.S. made under Hogan and market new
offerings through ABB’s global operations with 145,000
employees. Hogan added motors and low-voltage gear products in
his three-year acquisition spree and Spiesshofer oversaw the
integration of Baldor Electric Co., an Arkansas-based maker of
industrial motors and drives.  “We expect the appointment of an internal candidate to
signify continuity of the current strategy, at least for now,”
said  James Stettler , an analyst with Canaccord Genuity Ltd. in
London. “For investors expecting a more dramatic change in
strategy, more patience may be required.”  The stock rose 1.2 percent to 20.43 francs as of 9:07 a.m.
in Swiss trading, valuing the company at 47.3 billion francs
($51.2 billion). ABB shares had gained 7.7 percent this year
before today.  Siemens AG (SIE) , a competitor in factory robots and
automation, declined 3.5 percent in the same period.  Cost Cuts  Spiesshofer, 49, is a former  management consultant  from
 A.T. Kearney . The German citizen has a PhD in economics from the
University of Stuttgart and was previously head of corporate
development at ABB before being appointed head of discrete
automation and motion in 2009. He providing the foundations for
a $3 billion cost-cutting drive at ABB that started during the
financial crisis in 2008.  Spiesshofer’s ascension to the top job is timed with an
estimated 18 percent increase in  earnings  before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization this year to 6.27 billion
francs, according to the average of 31 analysts estimate
compiled by Bloomberg.  “I am extremely pleased that the new CEO comes from within
the company, and brings a solid track record and deep knowledge
of the portfolio,” Chairman Hubertus von Gruenberg said in the
statement. “The integration of Baldor stands out as a
benchmark.”  Solar Power  Spiesshofer also oversaw a $1 billion deal to buy
California-based  Power-One Inc. (PWER) , Hogan’s most recent purchase.  Power-One will give ABB inverters that allow solar power to
be fed into grids and the deal is an example of how Hogan has
been bringing new technology to the Swiss company. ABB is
looking to tap a market forecast to grow by more than 10 percent
annually, driven by a need for affordable energy and declining
costs of producing solar power.  ABB’s margin based on earnings before interest, taxes,
amortization and depreciation rose by 1.1 percentage points to
15 percent in the first quarter while sales increased by 9
percent to $9.7 billion, the company said April 24. Thomas &
Betts power fittings, connectors and switches contributed 7
percent to operating earnings.  A week later, German rival Siemens cut its full-year
forecast after quarterly earnings missed analyst estimates and
revenue fell 6.7 percent to 18 billion euros ($24 billion).  China Competition  Canaccord’s Stettler has said that Hogan’s successor also
needs to continue a revamp of the power systems unit. ABB faces
lower orders from  China  State Grid Corp., its largest customer,
as local rivals make technological advances and make inroads
into the Swiss company’s market share, he said.  Power Systems should extend the restructuring of its
engineering, procurement and construction businesses announced
in December to contracts for high-voltage power connections,
which depend on China, the analyst has said.  ABB said it will name a new head for the discrete
automation and motion unit, which Spiesshofer leads, “in due
course.” Hogan, who was the first American to lead the Zurich-based company, will stay on as an adviser for some months after
stepping down to ease the transition phase, the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in  London  at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  