-- Abe-Bernanke 1-2 Punch Pummeling World’s Top Carry Trade
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-06-17T18:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/abe-bernanke-one-two-punch-crushes-carry-trade-mexico-credit.html
Mexico’s peso is losing its status
as the best carry-trade currency for Japanese investors as the
 Bank of Japan  signals reluctance to boost stimulus while the
 Federal Reserve  weighs curbing its asset purchases.  Investors who borrowed funds in  Japan  and then bought the
peso to take advantage of Mexican interest rates that are about
40 times higher have lost 11 percent in the past month as the
Latin American currency sank. That’s a reversal from the 20
percent return in the first four months of 2013, the biggest in
 emerging markets  and the most among currencies tracked by
Bloomberg after the Icelandic krona. Yields on Mexico’s
benchmark bonds due 2024 rose 0.5 percentage point in the past
month, the most since the 30-day period ended Dec. 14, 2010.  Three weeks after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  spurred a
global rout by saying policy makers could reduce quantitative
easing, or QE, the BOJ’s decision to leave its lending program
unchanged signaled it was reluctant to add more stimulus.
Japanese mutual funds had boosted holdings of Mexican assets to
a record to profit from a 19 percent surge in the peso in the
first four months of the year as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s bid
to revive economic growth sank the yen. The peso has retreated
12 percent against the yen in the past month.  “There’s this big snapback now,” Vivienne Taberer, who
helps manage about $14 billion in emerging-market debt and
currencies at Investec Asset Management, said by telephone from
 Cape Town .  Mexico  “has been one of the biggest emerging-market
overweights, so there’s been quite a big shakeout of that. Some
of that has been obviously funded out of the yen because the
rates are so low, and the currency was so weak. So obviously
that’s been the most painful cross to have been in.”  Uridashi Sales  At $1.4 billion, sales of peso Mexican bonds sold to
individual investors in Japan, known as uridashi, this year have
already doubled the total in 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Holdings by Japanese mutual funds, known as toshins,
of Mexican assets rose to a record high 364.4 billion yen ($3.86
billion) in May from 93.5 billion yen last August, according to
Nomura Holdings Inc.  The peso touched a 4 1/2 year-high of 8.4085 yen per peso
on May 10. The Mexican currency fell 1.9 percent to 7.4093 yen
per peso on June 14.  The BOJ left unaltered on June 11 the one-year fixed-rate
loan facility the bank has tapped seven times amid a surge in
volatility during which yields have jumped from record lows,
disappointing some investors. Abe and the BOJ have pledged to
defeat 15 years of deflation by pumping as much as 70 trillion
yen ($742 billion) a year of new money into the economy.  ‘Threw Kerosene’  On June 14, the yen rallied further after minutes from the
BOJ’s latest meeting showed one policy maker advocated
restricting stimulus to a two-year period.  “Japan created a fire in its backyard, which basically
means they threw kerosene on the fire that was already taking
place here,” Alejandro Silva, who helps oversee $800 million in
emerging-market assets at Silva Capital Management, said by
phone from  Chicago . “Instead of getting reassurance that
perhaps there would be another central bank that would be
providing quantitative easing in larger scale to accommodate for
the fact that perhaps the Fed would taper, what you got was
nothing of that nature.”  Yujiro Goto, a currency strategist at Nomura, says Mexico’s
higher  interest rates  will continue to lure Japanese investors.  ‘Very Popular’  “In terms of May, Mexico was still a very popular
 investment decision  for Japan in toshin or uridashi market,” he
said by phone from  New York . “That will not change so much in
the near future.”  The  extra yield  investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell seven basis points,
or 0.07 percentage point, to 190 basis points at 2:07 p.m. in
New York, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps rose four basis points to
119 basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso fell 1.2 percent to 12.8607 per dollar.  Yields on interbank rate futures contracts due in December,
known as TIIE, fell three basis points last week to 4.30
percent.  ‘Crowded Trade’  Hedge funds  and other large speculators cut bets that the
currency would gain against the  U.S. dollar  to a net 63,774 on
June 11, the least in 10 months, according to data from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  “It was a crowded trade that was unwound because you had
the Fed spooking a lot of people believing that quantitative
easing would stay intact,” Silva said. “Secondarily, call it
insult to injury, the Japanese just didn’t really come through
with what the market had just sort of hoped would be a larger
stimulus plan.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  