-- Abenomics Races Against the Clock
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-06-17T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/abenomics-races-against-clock-as-stocks-seesaw-william-pesek.html
Are Shinzo Abe’s days as  Japan ’s
prime minister numbered?  Many will dismiss this question as premature or naive --
perhaps both. The architect of “Abenomics” boasts a higher
approval rating than any of the eight previous Japanese prime
ministers. Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party  is heading to a big
victory in next month’s upper-house  election . Supporters are
convinced he will use that mandate to end Japan’s 20-year
deflationary funk with boldness, creativity and panache.  There’s just one problem with their thesis: The batteries
that have powered support for Abe’s revival plan -- surging
 stocks  -- are running out. Given how quickly the Japanese
electorate tends to sour on politicians, the prime minister and
his most ardent fans should be worried.  Six months into Abe’s shock-therapy experiment of massive
monetary and fiscal stimulus as well as sweeping structural
reforms, Japan faces record trade deficits, extreme volatility
in the  bond market  and rising energy and food costs as a weaker
yen makes imports more expensive. The capital-spending and
household-wage increases that are needed to halt deflation have
yet to materialize.  Punters could ignore all this data when Japanese stocks
were locked into an upward trajectory. Abe’s hope was that the
equity boom would spark a positive domino effect. Optimistic
companies would hire more and fatten paychecks. Households would
open their newly flush wallets. Increased output would swell
government coffers and help pay down Japan’s massive debt.
Buoyant corporate profits would draw ever more investors into
markets and keep the whole virtuous cycle going until gross
domestic product soared.  Pulling a Koizumi  In effect, Abe hoped to pull a Koizumi on the political
establishment. Former Prime Minister  Junichiro Koizumi  was able
to outmaneuver Japan’s parliament and bureaucracy, privatize the
vast postal-savings system, and cut public-works spending by
appealing directly to the public and investors. That’s why
Abenomics began with the  Bank of Japan  doubling the monetary
base, bolstering  consumer confidence .  Already, though, the strategy is beginning to fray, as
evidenced by recent stock swoons. Huge gains in the Nikkei 225
Stock Average and broader Topix Index bought Abe time to
articulate how he planned to deregulate the economy, liberalize
trade, cut corporate-tax rates and encourage entrepreneurship.
He has failed to do so, and his lack of a clear blueprint is now
eroding any goodwill he had earned in the markets.  Public Trust  As with Koizumi, Abe will need several years to see through
his reforms. Yet the median tenure of the last 10 Japanese  prime
ministers  is only 419 days. If public trust slides along with
markets, the odds of Abe sticking around will drop, too. Even if
he hangs on, his chances of ramming big changes past Tokyo’s
vested interests decrease.  Yes, it may be too soon to judge. But it hardly seems
promising that consumer-goods makers and retailers aren’t buying
into Abenomics. Executives from Asahi Breweries Ltd. to clothier
Fast Retailing Co. to skin-care-products maker  Shiseido Co. (4911)  have
no plans to raise prices.  What about Japan’s fickle populace? Polls show Abe’s
previously bulletproof support is starting to crack. The
approval rating for his Cabinet dropped 2.8 points to 57.4
percent, according to a Jiji Press poll conducted from June 7 to
June 10 (even before a series of big drops in the market last
week). It’s the second straight month of declines. Other polls
show the Cabinet’s standing has also begun to slide with stocks.
For all the supposed excitement about Abe’s saving Japan, only
44 percent of respondents to a recent Yomiuri newspaper poll
said they would vote for the LDP next month.  Bag of Goods  Stock gyrations are merely a symptom of what ails
Abenomics. Voters, like foreign investors, are sensing they have
been sold an all-too-familiar bag of goods. Abe’s team appears
to be making things up as it goes along, promising additional
tweaks after every zig and zag in  markets . Instead of offering
strategic thinking that breeds confidence, Abe & Co. are
following markets that they should be leading. Creating a bubble
in expectations, along with a bubble in stocks, is no way to
heal the world’s third-biggest economy.  Abe must get a handle on these violent market swings, and
now. Otherwise, mass disillusionment may drive him out of office
-- and Japan’s big opportunity for change with him.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net  