-- Accused Sept. 11 Terror Attack Plotters Return to Court
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2013-06-18T00:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/accused-sept-11-terror-attack-plotters-return-to-court.html
Five men facing trial for 2001
terror attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon
returned to a military courtroom in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, for
the first time since February, to hear a  U.S. vice admiral
testify he wasn’t pressured to bring charges against them.  Accused mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed wore a camouflage
jacket and his four accused accomplices were clad in traditional
Gulf and Afghan Arab garb at today’s court session. Unlike court
appearances over the past year, the men were mostly silent and
didn’t take steps to disrupt the proceedings. At the end of the
day, the judge denied a lawyer’s request to allow Ramzi bin al
Shibh, who is accused of financing the attacks, to speak.  Five days of pre-trial hearings got under way as retired
Vice Admiral Bruce MacDonald, the former civilian head of the
military tribunal, returned to the witness stand to answer
questions from defense lawyers. The defense is seeking to show
that MacDonald was improperly swayed by presidents  George W. Bush  and  Barack Obama  and other U.S. officials in deciding last
year to refer the case to a tribunal and seek the death penalty.  “We talked to nobody in the White House, in the
administration, about the referral,” MacDonald told defense
lawyer Walter Ruiz, who represents Mustafa al Hawsawi, a Saudi
who allegedly helped finance the hijackers.  “Did you feel you were under any political pressure?”
asked James Harrington, the lawyer for bin al Shibh.  “No,” MacDonald replied.  Eavesdropping Claims  Mohammed and the four others are accused of plotting the
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks that used hijacked passenger airplanes
to kill almost 3,000 people at the World Trade Center in
 Manhattan , the Pentagon in  Virginia , and in  Pennsylvania .  They are charged with conspiring to finance, train and
direct the 19 hijackers who seized the four planes, as well as
terrorism, hijacking aircraft, conspiracy, murder in violation
of the laws of war and attacking civilians. A trial is at least
a year away.  The five were last in court in February, when proceedings
bogged down over defense lawyers’ claim that the government was
eavesdropping on meetings with their clients. MacDonald began
his testimony at the time.  This week, the judge, U.S. Army Colonel James Pohl, will
hear legal motions that may include a request from two
defendants to bar the military from force-feeding them.  Force-Fed  The prison camp had 104 of its 166 inmates on hunger
strikes as of today, with 44 being force-fed, according to Army
Lieutenant Colonel Samuel House, a camp spokesman. Two of the
inmates being force-fed are in a hospital, though they don’t
have life-threatening conditions, he said.  MacDonald had previously served as “convening authority”
of the military tribunal. The convening authority’s powers
include designating the charges on which the accused are to be
tried and selecting members of the jury that will eventually
hear the case.  Defense lawyers are seeking to show that MacDonald was
improperly influenced before referring the charges to the
tribunal, didn’t give the defense a chance to submit evidence to
him and had interfered in confidential lawyer-client
communications.  MacDonald, testifying from the U.S. over a close-circuit
video feed, said he had authorized the military to monitor and
record the lawyers’ phone calls with their clients “to prevent
any third parties from joining the conversations.” A broadcast
of the testimony was viewed by reporters at Fort Meade,
Maryland, near  Washington .  Favorable Evidence  As the day wore on, MacDonald sparred with defense lawyers
over whether he had given them enough time in 2011 to present
evidence favorable to their clients.  Harrington told MacDonald that he hadn’t been permitted to
meet bin al Shibh for many months after being appointed as his
lawyer. Defense attorney David Nevin said he had been barred
under military rules from discussing with Mohammed critical
topics that may have served as mitigation, including the nature
of “jihad,” or religious duty.  “I thought two months was sufficient time,” MacDonald
said.  It’s unclear if the five men will return to court tomorrow.
They each said, “yes,” when Pohl told them they have a right
not to attend court proceedings.  The case is U.S. v. Mohammed, Military Commissions Trial
(Guantanamo Bay, Cuba).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in Fort Meade,  Maryland , at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  