-- AIG Open to New ILFC Offer, IPO as Deadline Extended
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-06-17T20:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/aig-extends-share-deal-on-plane-leasing-unit-with-chinese-group.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
said it is open to new offers for its plane-leasing business and
may pursue a public offering of the unit after a group of
Chinese investors missed another deadline to buy the operation.  The group, led by New China Trust Co. Chairman Weng Xianding now has until July 31 to complete the deal, New York-based AIG said yesterday in a regulatory filing. The deadline to
buy International Lease Finance Corp. for $4.2 billion was
previously extended to June 14 from May 15.  “The numerous delays related to this transaction inject
AIG shares with additional risk and uncertainty” Cathy Seifert,
an equity analyst at Standard & Poor’s Capital IQ, said in a
research note yesterday.  AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 69, is
seeking to get rid of ILFC to reduce debt and focus the firm on
its main businesses of selling life insurance and property-casualty coverage. He said June 4 that he could return to a
prior plan for an IPO of ILFC if the deal falls through.  AIG slipped 0.5 percent to $45.15 yesterday in in New York,
the only decline in the 22-company Standard & Poor’s 500
Insurance Index.  “It’s difficult to envision AIG doing much better through
either an IPO or a newly negotiated outright sale,”  John Nadel ,
an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., said in a note on May
31, the day AIG announced that the would-be buyers missed a 10
percent deposit.  The acquirers paid the deposit June 5. The deal called for
a sale of 80 percent of ILFC for $4.2 billion and gave the group
the right to a stake of as much as 90 percent by paying more.  Regulatory Review  The latest extension also lets AIG cancel the deal before
July 31 if the insurer decides there are regulatory obstacles
that won’t be overcome by that deadline. The deal is subject to
approval by U.S. and Chinese authorities including the Committee
on Foreign Investment in the U.S. Jon Diat, an AIG spokesman,
declined to comment on CFIUS. Steven Lipin at Brunswick Group, a
spokesman for the buyer group, declined to comment.  AIG “may pursue, but not enter into definitive
documentation for, or consummate, other offers for ILFC and may
continue to pursue, but not engage in widespread solicitation of
orders for, or request effectiveness of, the alternative of a
public offering,” according to yesterday’s regulatory filing.  The unit may be most attractive to Chinese buyers because
the company could aid airline manufacturers in the nation and
benefit from low-cost loans from domestic lenders, Josh Stirling, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said in a note to
investors on June 2. Los Angeles-based ILFC had about $24.1
billion in debt as of March 31.  Bailout Repaid  Benmosche has said the firm needs to safeguard its  credit
rating  before restoring a dividend or repurchasing shares. AIG
suspended its  dividend  in 2008, when losses tied to soured
mortgage bets pushed the insurer to a U.S. bailout that swelled
to $182.3 billion. The U.S. recouped the cost of the rescue last
year, in part by selling shares acquired through the bailout
back to AIG.  “This company had a lot of operations that were separate
and apart from its core insurance operations,” Gloria Vogel, an
analyst at Drexel Hamilton LLC, said in a telephone interview
before the filing. “This is the last piece of that.”  To help repay the rescue, AIG reached deals to sell more
than $70 billion in assets, including Asian insurers and a U.S.
consumer lender. The firm has been working to divest ILFC since
2008, and said in 2011 it planned an initial public offering for
the business.  ‘Key Milestone’  Getting rid of ILFC would be a “key milestone,” Benmosche
said on a May 3 conference call, citing the unit’s debt and its
distance from AIG’s main insurance businesses.  AIG acquired ILFC in 1990 for $1.16 billion from founder
Steven Udvar-Hazy, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Under AIG’s
ownership, the unit had been able to borrow money at lower
rates, an advantage that evaporated when the insurer was hobbled
by losses tied to subprime mortgages.  Udvar-Hazy ran ILFC until 2010, when he resigned and
started  Air Lease Corp. (AL)  AIG sued, saying he took confidential
information.  Air Lease  called the claim “baseless.”  ILFC is now led by Henri Courpron, a former Airbus SAS
executive. The Los Angeles-based business has a fleet of about
1,000 owned and managed planes that it leases to airlines.  Benmosche has said he’d like to restore a dividend to AIG’s
shares, after paying down debt. The insurer had about $45
billion of long-term borrowings as of March 31.  “Once we’re confident that the rating agencies are
satisfied, then we can proceed with capital management,”
Benmosche said at a June 4 conference held by Deutsche Bank AG.
After selling ILFC and managing leverage, “we then want to
focus on a dividend and we also want to be able to start
focusing on a modest buyback program,” Benmosche said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  