-- Air in Singapore, Malaysia Unhealthy as Sumatra Forests Burn
-- B y   J a s m i n e   N g   a n d   C h o u   H u i   H o n g
-- 2013-06-17T12:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/air-worsens-in-malaysia-singapore-as-sumatra-forests-burn.html
Smog caused by forest fires on the
Indonesian island of Sumatra enshrouded parts of Malaysia and
 Singapore , where  air quality  dropped to unhealthy levels.  The city-state’s  Pollutant Standards Index  indicated 140 in
the three hours to 8 p.m. compared with 55 in the period to 9
a.m., the National Environment Agency said on its website. The
 last time  the PSI went above 100 was on Oct. 21, 2010, when it
hit 106, Channel NewsAsia reported.  Malaysia’s Terengganu, Pahang and Malacca registered
readings above 100 on the country’s Air Pollutant Index at 11
a.m., according to the country’s Department of Environment.
Levels of 101 to 200 in both nations signal the air is
“unhealthy” to breathe.  The Malay Peninsula has been plagued  for decades  by forest
fires in Sumatra to the west and Kalimantan on Borneo island to
the east, according to S. Rajaratnam School of International
Studies in Singapore. The fires hit a  peak in 1997 , when haze
cost the economies of  Indonesia , Malaysia and Singapore an
estimated $3.5 billion, based on figures published in a report
by the Center for International Forestry Research.  The economic cost can be “significant” if the haze
persists, particularly in the services sector, said Wai Ho Leong, a Singapore-based economist at  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  “For
Singapore, it could cast a pall on the Great Singapore Sale and
divert would-be visitors to other parts of the world,” he said,
referring to the annual period of retail discounts and tourist
offers from May 31 through June 30.  Urgent Measures  Singapore has asked Indonesia’s Ministry of Environment to
consider “urgent measures” to reduce the pollution, the NEA
said. The city-state’s manpower ministry issued an advisory
urging employers to minimize strenuous work outdoors.  “In situations where haze poses imminent danger to the
safety and health of works and measures have not been taken to
mitigate those risks, the Ministry of Manpower may order the
affected work to stop,” Sim Li Chuan, a spokesman for the
ministry, said in an e-mailed statement.  At least 138 hot spots were detected over Sumatra
yesterday, with hazy conditions expected to persist for the next
few days, the NEA said. The fires typically occur during a dry
season for the region from June to September, it said.  Kemaman in  Malaysia ’s Terengganu recorded the highest
reading of 121, according to the environment department’s 11
a.m. report. Bandaraya Melaka indicated 102.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Ng in Singapore at 
 jng281@bloomberg.net ;
Chou Hui Hong in Singapore at 
 chong43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  