-- Airbus Confident of A380 Sales Goal After Doric’s Order Splash
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   G u y   J o h n s o n
-- 2013-06-17T12:36:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/airbus-confident-of-a380-sales-goal-after-doric-s-order-splash.html
 Airbus SAS is confident it can meet
its order goal for A380s in 2013 after an accord with lessor
Doric Asset Finance Ltd. for 20 jets gave a much-needed boost to
the superjumbo that so far hadn’t booked fresh sales this year.  The memorandum of understanding has a value of $8.1 billion
a list price and should be firmed up in coming months, said
Airbus, which is aiming for 25 sales this year. The planemaker
is working to close open 2015 production slots for the double-decker plane by yearend, with fewer than five vacant positions
remaining, Chief Executive Officer Fabrice Bregier said.  “We know that some airlines need the aircraft but they’re
reluctant to fund, so we have an ideal partner with Doric making
sure that the airlines will develop their markets,” Bregier
said in an interview at the  Paris Air Show  today.  Airbus has had trouble generating demand partly because of
the cost of the A380, which sells for $403.9 million at list
price, equivalent to about four single-aisle planes. Doric’s
plan to buy 20 jets and lease them to airlines will help lure
some reluctant buyers, and Airbus will “probably” get another
five orders booked by yearend, Bregier said.  Doric expects the monthly rental rate for one A380 to be
about $2.5 million to $2.6 million, CEO Mark Lapidus said today
in an interview after announcing the agreement with Airbus.  Doric has already financed A380s for Emirates, the biggest
operator of the jet, and for  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , the first
airline to fly the plane in 2007. There were 103 A380s in
service through May, with Emirates flying 33. Doric is the only
leasing company to buy the plane, after International Lease
Finance Corp. dropped plans for a purchase.  Doric expects the first A380s coming off lease with
 Singapore  Airlines to go back to it in 2017, meaning Doric will
have to either find new operators or work out an agreement with
Singapore to extend the lease. Doric initially tapped retail
investors in  Germany  and the U.K. for funding for the planes and
has since expanded into the capital markets.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  has announced a commitment this ear
to buy two more A380s, though hasn’t yet firmed that up.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Guy Johnson in London at 
 gjohnson87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  