-- Airline Immunity on Threat Reports Gets High Court Review
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-06-17T13:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/airline-immunity-on-threat-reports-gets-high-court-review.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  agreed to use
a case involving an Air Wisconsin pilot upset about losing his
job to consider giving airlines broader immunity from lawsuits
when they report potential security threats.  The justices today said they will review a $1.4 million
award won by the pilot, William L. Hoeper. He sued the airline
for telling federal officials as he was preparing to board a
flight that he was “unstable” and possibly armed. Closely held
Air Wisconsin Airlines Corp. flies for  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)   Airlines say a Colorado Supreme Court ruling upholding the
award leaves them legally vulnerable when they follow
instructions from the  Transportation Security Administration ,
which tells carriers to err on the side of reporting security
issues. President  Barack Obama ’s administration joined the
industry in urging the Supreme Court to take up the case.  “The Colorado court’s analysis may chill other air
carriers from timely providing the government with critical
information about threats to  aviation security ,” U.S. Solicitor
General Donald Verrilli  argued  in court papers.  The case tests the 2001 Aviation and Transportation
Security Act, a law enacted two months after the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks. The measure requires airlines to report
security threats to the TSA. It also immunizes carriers from
lawsuits, except for reports made with “actual knowledge” that
they are false or “reckless disregard” for the truth.  ‘Personal Vendettas’  Hoeper says Air Wisconsin officials aren’t entitled to
immunity because they knew they were providing false information
about him when they called TSA in 2004.  “Providing unrestricted immunity for even bogus reports to
the TSA intended to inflict harm on innocent parties to settle
personal vendettas does nothing to further national security,”
Hoeper argued.  The incident occurred after Hoeper, a 20-year commercial
pilot, failed on his fourth and final try to pass a
certification test. The airline was requiring Hoeper to prove
his proficiency because it was discontinuing the type of
airplane he had been piloting.  During the fourth test, Hoeper became angry with the test
administrators, allegedly screaming at them and accusing them of
deliberately undermining his chances.  Hoeper left the facility and an Air Wisconsin manager,
Patrick Doyle, booked the pilot on a flight to his Denver home.
Before the flight left, Doyle called TSA to report Hoeper as a
potential security threat.  Mental Stability  Among other things, Doyle said he was concerned about
Hoeper’s mental stability and about the whereabouts of the
firearm he had been issued in his capacity as a federal flight
deck officer.  Hoeper was removed from the plane, arrested and later
released. A Colorado state-court jury awarded Hoeper damages
after concluding the airline had defamed him.  In upholding the award, the Colorado Supreme Court said Air
Wisconsin wasn’t entitled to immunity because Doyle’s statements
were made with reckless disregard as to their truth or falsity.  Air Wisconsin contends the case would have turned out
differently had the Colorado court analyzed whether the
statements were true before considering the issue of
recklessness.  “The idea that a true report could subject an airline to
suit is inimical to the ATSA’s goal of encouraging prompt
disclosure of threat information,” Air Wisconsin argued.  Hoeper’s lawyers urged the justices not to take the case,
saying the Colorado court in effect decided that the statements
were false.  Air Wisconsin’s “real quarrel with the courts below is not
the standard of review they applied, but with the courts’
understanding of the connotation of Doyle’s statements,” Hoeper
argued in court papers.  The case, which the court will take up during its 2013-14
term, is Air Wisconsin v. Hoeper, 12-315.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  