-- Alfa Billionaires to Invest $10 Billion in Oil Using TNK Funds
-- B y   W i l l   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-06-17T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/alfa-billionaires-to-invest-10-billion-in-oil-using-tnk-funds.html
Mikhail Fridman ’s Alfa Group may
invest $10 billion in the global oil and gas industry over the
next five years using funds from the sale of its 25 percent
holding in Russian oil producer TNK-BP.  The investment will be made through L1 Energy, a London-based venture headed by  German Khan , one of Fridman’s co-investors in Alfa, according to a statement today. A trio of
former oil industry chief executive officers --  BP Plc (BP/) ’s John Browne, Schlumberger Ltd.’s Andrew Gould and  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. (APC) ’s Jim Hackett -- will serve on L1’s advisory board.  Alfa received $14 billion this year when state oil producer
 OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  bought TNK-BP, a 10-year venture between a group of
Russian billionaires and BP, in Russia’s largest ever deal.
While L1 Energy will look at investments in Russia, the scope of
the venture will range across the Americas, the Middle East,
Africa and Asia.  “The shareholders of L1 Energy know the oil and gas
industry very well and have a permanent pool of capital that can
be put to work,”  Stan Polovets , lead member of the advisory
board, said in an interview. “This is not an exercise to create
another TNK-BP. While L1 Energy wants to have a significant
influence over the investments it makes, it will rely on
existing management teams.”  L1 will look principally at oil and gas production and
expects to spread the $10 billion through about five different
investments, according to Polovets, who was CEO of AAR, the
venture that managed the Russian investors’ stake in TNK-BP. The
company may take a stake of 25 percent to 100 percent in each
deal and work at a debt-to-equity ratio of one-to-one, taking
the total employed to $20 billion, he said.  Formulate Strategy  The advisory board, which will meet as needed, will serve a
threefold purpose, Polovets said: to help formulate strategy,
give advice that provides assurance to shareholders and suggest
investments.  “L1 Energy is well positioned to capitalize on a wide
variety of oil and gas opportunities throughout the world,”
 John Browne , who’s now a partner at private equity investor
Riverstone Holdings LLC, said in the statement. The
“combination of value creation track record, M&A expertise,
permanent structure and access to capital makes L1 Energy a
highly attractive partner for ambitious management teams.”  L1 Energy has employed executive search firm  Korn/Ferry
International (KFY)  to help Khan, who was an executive director of
TNK-BP, build the management team.  As well as oil and gas production, the company will
consider investments in oilfield services and midstream
infrastructure, Polovets said. L1 Energy’s risk appetite will
increase over time, so early investments may involve existing
production and move toward exploration later, he said.  L1 Energy is part of LetterOne Group, which will also
manage  Alfa Group ’s international telecommunications assets,
according to today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Kennedy in London at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  