-- Allianz’s Fouche Leaves as U.S. Unit CEO For Prudential
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2013-06-17T23:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/allianz-s-fouche-leaves-as-u-s-unit-ceo-for-prudential.html
Lori Dickerson Fouche has left as
chief executive officer of the U.S. property casualty unit of
 Allianz SE (ALV) , Europe’s largest insurer, to help lead  Prudential
Financial Inc. (PRU) ’s business providing coverage through employers.  Fouche will have responsibility for life and disability
offerings, sales and account management, Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential said yesterday in a statement. She’ll have the
title of president.  “I’m excited to join a great company,” Fouche said in a
telephone interview. “Prudential has a very strong brand name
and a great leadership team.”  Prudential and  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer,
have been pushing sales of group coverage which can be less
sensitive to low  interest rates  than retirement products.
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul may also expand
the market for some types of insurance sold through workplaces.  Fouche will report to Stephen Pelletier, CEO of Prudential
Group Insurance.  “Her experience will be invaluable as we work toward
achieving our goal of sustainable profitable growth,”
Pelletier, 59, said in the statement. “We are delighted that
Lori has joined Group Insurance at this important time for the
business and industry.”  Pelletier joined in April 2012, one month before the
company posted a first-quarter operating loss at the group unit,
which was pressured by disability claims. Prudential, the
second-largest U.S. life insurer, named  Andrew Sullivan  last
June to lead its disability business.  Fireman’s Fund  Andrew Torrance will replace Fouche as CEO of Fireman’s
Fund Insurance Co., the Novato, California-based Allianz unit
said in a statement. Torrance formerly was CEO of Allianz UK.  Allianz had more than  $5 billion  in premium revenue in the
U.S. property-casualty business last year. Fireman’s Fund sells
coverage to wealthy individuals to protect assets such as
yachts, fine art and wine collections. The company also backs
U.S. films against risks such as an injury of a cast member.  Fouche, who also will be chief operating officer of the
Prudential business, left Fireman’s Fund to pursue opportunities
closer to her family on the U.S. East Coast, the Allianz unit
said in its statement.  Fouche worked for Chubb Corp. before joining Allianz,
rising to senior vice president in the Warren, New Jersey-based
company’s specialty insurance business. She has an MBA from
 Harvard Business School  and a bachelor’s degree in history from
 Princeton University .  Torrance received a degree in theoretical physics from
University of Cambridge and a master’s degree from the London
Business School.  He has a record of “delivering consistent profitability in
a challenging business environment during his 14-year career at
Allianz,” Gary Bhojwani, chairman of Fireman’s Fund, said in
the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chaykowski in  San Francisco  at 
 kchaykowski2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  