-- Amicus Falls as Fabry Disease Drug Trials Need More Time
-- B y   S a m u e l   A d a m s
-- 2013-06-17T17:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/amicus-falls-as-fabry-disease-drug-trials-need-more-time.html
Amicus Therapeutics Inc. (FOLD)  fell to its
lowest price in almost 19 months after the company said it will
delay seeking U.S. approval of its experimental treatment for
Fabry disease until the second half of 2014 at the earliest.  Amicus  declined  23 percent to $2.47 at 12:50 p.m. New York
time after earlier dropping to $2.30, the lowest intraday price
since Nov. 28, 2011.  Amicus and its partner on the drug,  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ,
may need to wait for an additional year of study beyond the
current 12-month plan to ensure Food and Drug Administration
approval, the Cranbury, New Jersey-based company said today.
Early results from a clinical trial reported in December showed
Amigal, also known as migalastat, performed no better
statistically than a placebo and the FDA refused to amend its
plan for the failed study, prompting the filing postponement.  “The FDA has been incredibly helpful and transparent,”
Amicus Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John F. Crowley told
investors today on a conference call. “They clearly recognize
the unmet medical need that remains in Fabry disease and are
committed to working with us to evaluate the complete data set
and to determine a path toward filing an approval.”  Fabry disease is a rare genetic disorder in which patients
can’t break down fats that accumulate in the body’s organs.  After six months of clinical trial Amigal showed no
statistical benefit over a placebo. Forty-one percent of
patients given the drug were counted as responders compared with
28 percent of the placebo group, a difference that failed to
meet statistical significance under FDA guides.  The company plans to wait for another Phase 3 study -- an
18-month switch therapy trial -- to culminate in the middle of
2014 before filing for FDA approval, Crowley said. London-based
Glaxo is funding 60 percent of the costs for the continuing
testing programs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Adams in  New York  at 
 sadams69@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  