-- Apollo Said to Bid for Rio’s Iron Ore of Canada Unit
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-06-17T22:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/apollo-said-to-bid-for-rio-s-iron-ore-of-canada-unit.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , the
private-equity firm run by billionaire  Leon Black , made an offer
for Rio Tinto Group’s Canadian iron-ore operations, according to
a person familiar with the situation.  Apollo is through to the second round of bidding for Iron
Ore Co. of Canada, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public. The sale of the
unit may raise $2 billion to $3.5 billion, Credit Suisse Group
AG analysts said in a June 12 note.  David Outhwaite, a spokesman for London-based Rio, said the
company declined to comment on market rumors and speculation.
 Charles Zehren , a spokesman for Apollo at public relations firm
Rubenstein Associates, declined to comment.  Rio, the world’s second-largest mining company, hired
Credit Suisse and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce to sell all
or part of its 59 percent stake in the Canadian iron-ore
producer, a person familiar with the matter said in March.  Apollo is among private-equity firms that have stepped up
efforts to invest in mining as some of the industry’s largest
companies sell assets amid falling commodity prices. KKR & Co.,
the buyout firm run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , is
considering a bid for Rio’s stake in an Australian copper and
gold mine, two people with knowledge of the matter said in
April.  Selling Assets  There have been 407 mining industry transactions totaling
$22.8 billion announced this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The volume and value of industry deals is on track to
be lower in the first half compared with the year-earlier
period, when there were 517 bids totaling $72.3 billion, the
data show.  Rio is seeking to sell assets as Chief Executive Officer
 Sam Walsh  cuts costs to counter slowing growth in demand for
commodities. Rio and Melbourne-based BHP Billiton, its biggest
competitor, may sell businesses or stakes in mines for as much
as $35 billion, Deutsche Bank AG said in March.  Iron Ore Co.’s operations are located in Labrador City in
Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada’s easternmost province. About
a quarter of its output is shipped to steel mills in Asia, the
Pacific region and the  Middle East . It owns a 420-kilometer
(261-mile) railway and port on the Gulf of St. Lawrence. The
unit’s reserves are sufficient for more than 20 years at current
production rates, according to Rio’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  