-- Arabtec Gains Most in June After Winning Contract: Dubai Mover
-- B y   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2013-06-17T11:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/arabtec-gains-most-in-june-after-winning-contract-dubai-mover.html
Arabtec Holding PJSC (ARTC) , the company
building the Abu Dhabi branch of the Louvre, jumped the most
this month after a venture led by it won a 4 billion-dirham
($1.1 billion) contract.  The stock climbed 3.9 percent, the biggest gain since May
30, to close at 2.12 dirhams in Dubai, bringing the advance this
year to 14 percent. About 46 million shares traded, or 2.1 times
the three-month daily average, making the company the third
most-traded stock in Dubai’s  benchmark  index.  Arabtec said it won the contract from  Aldar Properties
PJSC (ALDAR) ’s unit to develop the Abu Dhabi Plaza in Astana,
Kazakhstan. Construction on the mixed-use development includes
five towers and is due to be completed in 2017.  The stock “is reacting to the positive announcement about
winning this big contract,” said Fadi Al Said, a Dubai-based
senior fund manager at ING Investment Management.  United Arab Emirates construction projects are picking up,
with Arabtec winning contracts to build the branch of the French
museum, an airport terminal in Abu Dhabi and an earlier, 243
million-dirham deal from  Emaar Properties PJSC. (EMAAR)   The contract is Arabtec’s third this month after it sealed
a $629 million deal on a property project in  Jordan  and an 810
million-dirham order to build a five-star hotel and serviced
apartment tower in Dubai.  The company may post an 87 increase in profit this year to
260 million dirhams, according to the mean estimate of 12
analysts,  data  compiled by Bloomberg shows. One analyst
 recommend  investors buy Arabtec, while six say hold and nine say
sell, according to the data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Daliah Merzaban at 
 dmerzaban@bloomberg.net  