-- Martoma, U.S. Reach Deal With University Over Laptop
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-06-17T17:58:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/martoma-u-s-reach-deal-with-university-over-laptop.html
Ex-SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio
manager Mathew Martoma and U.S. prosecutors reached an agreement
with the  University of Michigan  giving them access to documents
encrypted on a laptop belonging to the government’s star witness
in Martoma’s insider trading case.  Martoma was charged by the U.S. in November with the
largest insider trading case in history, accused of helping the
hedge fund founded by  Steven A. Cohen  make $276 million using
illegal tips about a drug to treat  Alzheimer’s disease .  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission alleged that
Martoma’s source was Sid Gilman, a University of Michigan
neurologist who was head of the safety monitoring committee for
the drug trial. Gilman has entered into a non-prosecution
agreement and is cooperating with the government.  “We write with the consent of the government to inform the
court that Mr. Martoma, the Unites States Attorney’s Office and
the University of Michigan have reached an agreement concerning
the production of electronic documents by the university,”
Martoma’s lawyer,  Richard Strassberg , said in a June 13 letter
to U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe in  Manhattan  made public
today.  Strassberg said a June 18 hearing before Gardephe to
discuss a dispute over lawyers’ access to a laptop used by
Gilman is no longer necessary.  The government, which told Gardephe it had “imaged,” or
copied, the contents of the computer’s hard drive, had not been
able to gain access to the encoded files. Under the agreement,
the government will give its copy to the university, which will
decrypt the files and make them available to prosecutors and
defense lawyers, Strassberg said.  Patient Records  Confidential records regarding patients and other
information will be redacted and won’t be made public,
Strassberg said.  Prosecutors had said they were preparing to serve a
subpoena on the university after it initially refused to help
them gain access to the laptop files, citing confidentiality
concerns about the contents of the documents.  In his endorsed letter, Gardephe set an Aug. 23 conference
to hear Martoma’s request to dismiss the charges against him. He
is scheduled to go on trial Nov. 4 on conspiracy and securities
fraud charges.  The case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-cr-00973, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  