-- Asian Futures Tip Gains as U.S. Jumps on Fed; Gas Rallies
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-06-18T22:27:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/asian-futures-pace-u-s-gains-before-fed-as-yen-weakens.html
Asian equity  futures (NKA)  rose,
indicating shares from Japan to  Australia  may follow U.S. stocks
higher, on prospects the  Federal Reserve  will signal the fate of
monetary stimulus after its meeting today. The yen held
declines, while natural gas and gasoline gained.  Futures on the Nikkei 225 Stock Average due in September
added 1.9 percent to 13,240 by 3 a.m. in  Osaka , after closing at
13,235 in Chicago and 13,000 yesterday in Japan. Contracts on
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index increased 0.7 percent, while Hang
Seng Index futures rose 0.1 percent.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
futures gained 0.1 percent, after the measure climbed 0.8
percent in  New York , rising for a second day. Japan’s currency
weakened 0.1 percent versus the dollar after dropping the past
two days. Crude oil extended gains from a nine-month high.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who has helped shave more
than $2 trillion from global markets since May 22 after
signaling that the central bank’s asset buying program could be
scaled back, will speak to reporters after the conclusion of
Fed’s two-day policy meeting today. Data in the U.S. yesterday
showed housing starts rose and the cost of living increased less
than forecast in May. Oil rallied as the conflict in Syria
boosted concern Middle Eastern supplies will be disrupted.  “The Fed will likely tread a careful path between further
preparing the market for tapering of asset purchases while
emphasizing that actual policy tightening remains a long way
off,” Kymberly Martin, a markets strategist in Wellington at
Bank of New Zealand Ltd., said in an e-mail. “There’s certainly
potential for significant volatility in markets around the
announcement.”  QE Gains  The Fed’s easing program has contributed to a 16 percent
advance in the  S&P 500  this year, and the gauge has risen 144
percent from its bear-market low reached in 2009 amid four
straight years of earnings growth. Japan’s Topix Index has risen
26 percent in 2013 while the MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of regional
equities is up 1.8 percent.  Commerce Department data showed builders broke ground on
914,000 U.S. homes at an annualized rate, up 6.8 percent while
below the the median estimate of 950,000 from 82 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Another report showed the  consumer price
index  increased 0.1 percent in May, half the median projection,
after falling 0.4 percent in April.  ‘Waiting to Hear’  “Everybody’s just waiting to hear what the Fed has to
say,” Tom Wirth, who helps manage $1.6 billion as senior
investment officer for Chemung Canal Trust Co. in Elmira, New
York, said by phone yesterday. “If they say they’ll taper
sooner rather than later, there’ll be fear in the market and
we’ll see a decline for some time in stocks. We’ll need to see
the results of tapering. If the economy continues to roll along
and grow without as much Fed buying, that will spur us to the
next leg up in the  bull market .”  The yen slipped to 95.45 per dollar and lost 0.1 percent to
127.82 per euro by 7:25 a.m. in Tokyo. Australia’s dollar was
little changed at 94.80 U.S. cents, while the New Zealand
currency was steady at 79.88 cents. The  Dollar Index  fell 0.2
percent yesterday. Yields on 10-year Treasury notes were little
changed at 2.18 percent after climbing five basis points the
previous day.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said that Fed Chairman Bernanke
has stayed in his post “longer than he wanted,” one of the
clearest signals the central bank chief will leave when his
current term expires next year.  “ Ben Bernanke ’s done an outstanding job,” Obama said in
an interview with  Charlie Rose , when asked about nominating him
for another term subject to Senate approval. “He’s already
stayed a lot longer than he wanted or he was supposed to.”  Holdings Cut  Investors cut bond holdings to a near two-year low this
month and bought stocks as expectations the Fed may remove
monetary stimulus bolstered growth forecasts, a Bank of America
Corp. survey showed.  A net 50 percent of 190 global fund managers, who together
oversee about $572 billion, said they now hold fewer bonds than
are represented in asset-allocation benchmarks, while the
proportion who are overweight on stocks rose to 48 percent from
41 percent as they bought U.S. and European shares. Emerging-market equity holdings slumped to the lowest level since
December 2008.  “Investors’ sentiment has been surprisingly resilient in
recent weeks despite the jump in volatility in financial
markets,”  Michael Hartnett , New York-based chief investment
strategist at Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit, wrote in a
note to investors yesterday. “While our fund-flows data shows
bond capitulation, the survey shows that there has been no
capitulation in equities in the U.S. and  Europe .”  Natural gas futures gained 0.2 percent, rising for a third
day, on prospects hotter weather later this month may spur
demand from  power plants . West Texas Intermediate crude rose 0.1
percent after jumping 0.7 percent to $98.44 a barrel yesterday,
the highest settlement since Sept. 14. Gasoline futures maturing
next month added 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien in Wellington at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  