-- Asmussen Says Slowing Austerity Risks Turbulence on Bond Markets
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-06-17T13:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/asmussen-says-slowing-austerity-risks-turbulence-on-bond-markets.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Joerg Asmussen said giving countries such as Spain
and  Italy  more time to repair their budgets risks reigniting
turbulence on government bond markets.  “Without further structural reforms and prompt progress
with budget consolidation, we could easily see renewed tensions
in the markets for government bonds,” Asmussen said today in
the text of a speech given in Magdeburg,  Germany . “Pausing and
relaxing is not a realistic option.”  Recession-hit countries won greater budget freedom in May
as the European Commission eased up on austerity policies
championed by Germany in the wake of the region’s sovereign debt
crisis. Six straight quarters of economic contraction in the
euro area and a youth unemployment rate of 24 percent had
spurred countries including Spain and  France  to ask for two more
years to reach their fiscal targets.  “In times of low growth the calls for more time and less
reform pressure get louder,” Asmussen said in the text of the
speech, adding that the debate in the European Union that had
led to the relaxation “isn’t especially helpful.”  Asmussen pressured governments to agree to repair the
balance sheets of banks that have existing bad loans. The
Frankfurt-based ECB is preparing a review of balance sheets
later this year and will take over responsibility for
supervising as many as 150 European lenders directly next year.  “It is important to stress that the repair of legacy
assets should be primarily taken over by the member states,”
Asmussen said, adding that a euro-area resolution mechanism
would ideally be operational by the time the ECB takes over
supervision.  “This ambitious timetable is doable, if the resolution
mechanism were to be established on the basis of EU secondary
law.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  