-- Assad Warns Against Arming Rebels, Denies Chemical Weapons Use
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-06-17T16:44:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/assad-warns-against-arming-rebels-denies-chemical-weapons-use.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
warned that  Europe  will “pay the price” for arming rebels
trying to topple him and rejected accusations that he’s deployed
chemical weapons against them as baseless.  In an interview with Germany’s  Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung  newspaper in Damascus, Assad warned that European
nations seeking to send weapons to rebels will only export
“terrorists” back to Europe. He also said the U.S., U.K. and
 France  hadn’t substantiated their chemical weapons allegations.  “If Paris,  London  and  Washington  had a single piece of
evidence for their claims, they would have produced it for the
world public,” Assad told FAZ. An image on the Syrian
president’s Facebook page showed an FAZ cover and a photo of
Assad sitting with a reporter from the newspaper.  Backed by Lebanon’s Shiite militia Hezbollah and aid from
Iran and  Russia , Assad’s forces have shifted the momentum in
Syria’s civil war with an offensive against the rebels. He
granted the interview after President  Barack Obama , accusing
Assad of crossing a “red line” by using chemical weapons, last
week ratcheted up U.S. support for the rebels with a decision to
send them light arms.  Assad said using chemical weapons would be “illogical” if
conventional weapons could be deployed -- and added that Syria
has never confirmed or denied possessing chemical arms.  Instead, he accused rebel militia of using such weapons and
said France and the U.K. had blocked a United Nations measure to
investigate such a deployment in Aleppo.  Lies  “Everything that’s been said about the use of chemical
weapons is a continuation of lies against Syria,” Assad told
FAZ. “It’s the attempt to justify more military intervention.”  The Syrian leader also singled out the French and British
governments, which spearheaded an end to the European Union’s
weapons embargo last month, for wanting to ship weapons that he
said will ultimately end up in the hands of “terrorists.”  “Terrorism means chaos here; chaos leads to poverty and
poverty means that Europe will lose a significant market,”
Assad said. “The second consequence would be the direct export
of terrorism to Europe” as refugees leave the country.  Group of Eight leaders meeting today in  Northern Ireland 
take up the Syria issue, as Obama sounds out Western allies on
how far to go to intervene in Syria’s conflict.  While British Prime Minister  David Cameron  and French
President Francois Hollande support Western action in Syria,
Russian President  Vladimir Putin  is backing Assad.  Russian Weapons  “Russia supplies arms to the legitimate government of
Syria according to international law,” Putin said yesterday in
London after meeting with Cameron. “We breach nothing. And we
call on our partners to act the same way.”  The Syrian army is mounting an offensive to retake Aleppo,
the nation’s commercial center and largest city. The Syrian
rebels’ Supreme Military Command, headed by Major General Salim
Idris, has pleaded for heavy arms that go beyond the light
weapons such as machine guns and rocket-propelled grenades that
the U.S. is preparing to furnish.  Assad told the German newspaper he has no doubt that rebels
“will be completely eliminated from our territory,” though
said he was still open for political talks.  In  Saudi Arabia , the Cabinet called on Islamic nations
today to stand against supplying  Syria ’s “illegitimate regime”
with weapons, ammunition and individuals “so that it would not
be able to continue its aggression,” according to the official
Saudi Press Agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  