-- Aston Martin Owner Said to Seek 50% Debt Cut With Lenders
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   S a m u e l   P o t t e r
-- 2013-06-18T11:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/aston-martin-owner-said-asking-lenders-to-take-50-percent-cut.html
Investment Dar Co., a shareholder in
luxury British carmaker  Aston Martin , is asking creditors to
take a 50 percent writedown on the Kuwaiti company’s debt as it
seeks to meet repayments after defaulting on a loan three years
ago, according to three people familiar with the matter.  Under the optional plan, creditors will receive a cash
payment totaling 5.7 percent of their outstanding debt and a
portion of a new Islamic loan equal to about 44 percent of their
current exposure, the people said, asking not to be identified
as details aren’t public. Investment Dar’s stake in Aston Martin
and real estate holdings will be among assets backing the new
credit facility, according to the people.  Investment Dar, which defaulted on a $100 million Islamic
bond in 2009, restructured about $5 billion of debt in 2011
after the global credit crisis reduced the ability of some
Kuwaiti companies to repay loans. The firm, which has a 50
million Kuwaiti dinar ($176 million) repayment due on June 30,
said its proposed settlement-in-kind plan, announced last month,
“tremendously enhances” its ability to repay debt on time.  Creditors have until today to accept the deal, the people
said. The company has received substantial commitments for the
settlement, which also envisages an equity stake for creditors
in a new company being created to hold the assets, according to
one of the people. Creditors who decide not to take the offer
will retain their claims under the restructuring plan approved
by a Kuwaiti court, the company said last month.  Asset Sales  Under the plan, the assets backing the new facility will be
sold in about four to seven years, one of the people said.
Creditors will have first lien on these assets, the person said,
meaning that if Investment Dar defaults, creditors signed up to
the plan will be paid before all other debt holders.  Investment Dar was part of the group that bought Aston
Martin for 503 million pounds in 2007. Calls and e-mails to
Investment Dar in Kuwait and  London  weren’t returned.  Investindustrial, a European private-equity fund, bought a
37.5 percent stake in Aston Martin in December through a capital
increase for 190 million euros ($254 million). The agreement
implied an enterprise value for the company of 940 million
euros, the companies said at the time.  Bahrain Bank  Investment Dar in March said it agreed to sell its 51.6
percent stake in loss-making Bahrain Islamic Bank to National
Bank of Bahrain and a state-run Social Insurance Organisation.  Kuwait’s economy may grow as much as 5 percent this year,
Finance Minister Mustafa Al-Shimali said in April.  Aston Martin, which makes  sports cars  featured in  James
Bond movies , has held talks with potential partners to jointly
develop high-end engines and electronic parts, Investindustrial
Chairman  Andrea Bonomi  told reporters in Milan in January.  The carmaker intends to invest 500 million pounds ($784
million) over the next four years to develop the brand, he said.  Investindustrial has a track record of turning around high-end vehicle manufacturers, selling Italian motorcycle maker
Ducati to VW’s Audi last year. Investindustrial plans to remain
an Aston Martin shareholder for at least 10 years, Bonomi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Samuel Potter in Dubai at 
 spotter33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  