-- ATT Hacker Weev Is Flashpoint for Website Crime Law
-- B y   D u n e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-06-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/att-hacker-weev-is-flashpoint-for-website-crime-law.html
He is a red-headed hacker who hails
from  Arkansas , goes by the name “weev,” and seems to delight
in being annoying. For years, he broke into computer systems,
disrupted blog sites and riled people with personal attacks.  Now his case has become a flashpoint in the debate over
where to draw the line between online freedom and cybercrime in
the U.S., and whether the law is too broad or too narrow in both
criminal and civil cases.  Born Andrew Auernheimer, he is appealing his prison term of
three years and five months for violating the Computer Fraud and
Abuse Act, the main U.S. anti-hacking law. Auernheimer, 27,
rants from prison that jurors wrongly convicted him of
conspiring to take 114,000 e-mail addresses from  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s
website. At trial, the Justice Department said he broke the law
on unauthorized access of protected computer systems. His
lawyers want an appeals court to interpret the law more
narrowly, arguing that AT&T’s site was virtually wide open and
left unsecured by the company’s design.  “This is really about freedom to use the Web,” said Orin Kerr, a George Washington University law professor who is
helping on Auernheimer’s appeal. “The future impact is enormous
because, effectively, if this is a crime, then visiting a
website is a crime when the website owner doesn’t want you to
visit in that way.”  Auernheimer’s conviction and 41-month sentence have
emboldened those who say the CFAA can be interpreted much too
broadly by prosecutors and judges. Some Internet law experts and
civil liberties groups seek legislation to narrow its scope,
contending that without reform it could be used to turn innocent
 Internet users  into criminals.  Hurts Research  From prison, where he has been held at times in solitary
confinement, Auernheimer continues to argue that he is the
victim of a Draconian law that threatens research and ordinary
Internet usage. He sent a Twitter message that the law “doesn’t
hinder Romanians, Estonians, Chinese” hackers…“It only hurts
researchers and activists.”  His case highlights one of the knottiest issues in the
digital economy: How can the law help ensure freedom of movement
and information in cyberspace, while protecting billions of
records and devices, as well as intellectual property, from
theft and intrusion? Those conflicts are playing out in criminal
cases like Auernheimer’s, as well as in civil lawsuits,
including one filed by Craigslist, which is suing startup
companies that used data on its public website to build
applications.  Adding to the urgency of the debate is a backdrop of
unrelenting assaults against business and government computer
systems around the world, accusations by U.S. officials that
Chinese hackers have pilfered vast amounts of intellectual
property and classified materials, and turmoil over disclosures
about the U.S. government’s digital spying on its own citizens.  No Misuse  Bradford Newman, an attorney who represents corporations in
preventing  data theft , defended the law, saying prosecutors are
using it appropriately.  “The CFAA serves an important role in our society now more
than ever, when computers are a daily part of everything we
do,” said Newman, a lawyer with Paul Hastings LLP.  The Justice Department has been criticized at times for the
cases it has chosen to prosecute under the CFAA, passed in 1984.
The department came under fire, for example, after the January
suicide of Aaron Swartz, an Internet activist facing prosecution
for breaking into the computer system at the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology .  Revision Proposed  Representative Zoe Lofgren, Democrat of  California ,
proposed language to make it clear that that simple breach-of-contract or terms-of-service violations do not violate the law,
while limiting it to circumventions of technology barriers. A
competing proposal, supported by the  Justice Department , would
create stiffer penalties and make violators subject to the
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, which is
typically used in organized-crime cases.  Appeals courts have issued contradictory interpretations of
unauthorized access under the law.  In Auernheimer’s case, his appeals team, including Kerr and
the online civil liberties group Electronic Frontier Foundation
(EFF), will ask the U.S. Third Circuit Court of Appeals to limit
the concept of unauthorized access.  Unauthorized access should be defined by the circumvention
of technical security barriers, like a firewall or encryption,
because otherwise it’s impossible to set a clear standard, said
Marcia Hoffman, a former foundation lawyer working on the
appeal.  Minor Violations  Paul Fishman, the U.S. attorney in  New Jersey  who oversaw
Auernheimer’s prosecution, said his office doesn’t pursue minor
infractions of the law, and the privacy violations were obvious.  “If you hack and you get 114,000 e-mail addresses, and you
look at them and say, ‘I don’t want to tell anybody about this,’
it’s different than sending them out and publicizing what you do
and basically thumbing your nose,” said Fishman. “If we don’t
respond under circumstances when people do something that is so
notorious, that sends a bad message, too.”  Auernheimer was convicted last November by federal jurors
in  Newark , New Jersey, of conspiracy to access AT&T’s servers
without authorization and of  identity theft . Prosecutors said
his associate Daniel Spitler breached AT&T servers and stole e-mail addresses of more than 114,000 users of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPads.
Auernheimer disclosed that data to the Gawker website. AT&T
plugged the hole and apologized to customers.  Auernheimer e-mailed iPad users at news organizations to
say he had “stolen” identification numbers for their address,
and he “would be happy to discuss the method of theft.” At
trial, Auernheimer said he used the words like “theft” as
“rhetoric and hyperbole” to “sensationalize” the story.  No Theft  Spitler pleaded guilty and testified against Auernheimer.
He described how he carried out his attack by writing computer
code to generate iPad identification numbers. Auernheimer told
jurors that the information was public and that he never
considered what he did as theft.  Auernheimer’s lawyers will argue that his 41-month sentence
is excessive because he did not damage AT&T’s computers and the
e-mail addresses were never distributed or used in any other
way. The law covers unauthorized access to computers when the
damage exceeds $5,000. The judge ordered Auernheimer to pay
restitution of $73,167 to AT&T.  His sentence shows how disconnected the anti-hacking law is
from the harm it was meant to prevent, said James Grimmelmann, a
 New York  Law School professor.  Too Severe  “If I crash a computer, if I delete data, if I access
confidential information, those are all things that we might be
very concerned about happening on computers,” Grimmelmann said.
“Those involve specific harm to the computer owner or to other
users.”  Given the limited distribution of the data weev took, one
could argue the harm he caused was “much smaller” than
prosecutors said and deserved a lesser punishment, he said.  Auernheimer’s appeal to the Philadelphia-based Third
Circuit follows a ruling by the San Francisco-based Ninth
Circuit in the case of David Nosal. He was prosecuted for
inducing two accomplices to access information from a database
at the executive-search firm where they worked.  The Ninth Circuit narrowed his criminal case as well as the
application of the statute, ruling in 2012 that employees cannot
exceed their authorized access unless that access has been
revoked. It rejected the government’s interpretation, saying
“millions of unsuspecting individuals would find that they are
engaging in criminal conduct.”  After the case was narrowed, a jury convicted Nosal on
April 24 of conspiring with employees at his former firm to
violate the CFAA, unauthorized access to a computer and trade
secret theft.  Overreach Example  Kerr and EFF say that Auernheimer’s conviction is an
example of the overreach warned against by the Ninth Circuit,
putting too much power to determine a user’s violations in the
hands of the Justice Department and a computer’s owner.  The  Department of Justice  advanced the interpretation that
even simple terms of service breaches could be violations of the
anti-hacking law in the case of a Missouri woman, Lori Drew. She
was convicted of a misdemeanor CFAA violation for creating a
phony account on News Corp.’s MySpace.com to trick a teen-ager,
who later committed suicide. A judge tossed the conviction in
2009, saying it “criminalizes what otherwise would be a breach
of contract” under a website’s terms of service.  The questions over unauthorized access have also crossed
into civil cases, particularly in commercial disputes otherwise
resolved under contract law, according to Andrea Matwyshyn, a
professor at the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School.
“By using the CFAA in such a heavy-handed way, we are actually
throwing other bodies of law out of kilter,” she said.  Lost Way  A group of Internet companies sent an open letter in March
to Congress warning that “the law has lost its way” and may
quash innovation if courts continue to interpret breaches of
contractual agreements or policies as CFAA breaches. Such
interpretations “give incumbent companies a dangerous and
unfair weapon to wield against competitors,” the companies
wrote.  In one current case, Craigslist, the provider of free
online classified ads, is suing 3Taps Inc., which grabs data
from public websites for application developers. 3Taps’s
harvesting of data is “unauthorized access” under the law,
Craigslist claims.  Craigslist is also suing PadMapper Inc., which automates
the combing of real estate listings and places them on a map for
renters or buyers of apartments. New York Law School’s
Grimmelmann said he expects more such lawsuits.  41 Months  Auernheimer’s sentence of 41 months has rallied the law’s
critics, who say he was punished for being obnoxious. At his
sentencing hearing on March 18, he told the prosecutors and the
judge, “if you people understood what you were doing with the
rule of law and the Constitution, you would feel shame.” The
judge criticized his “pervasive disrespect,” which he factored
into his sentence.  After being imprisoned, Auernheimer continued to send
electronic messages about his experience, relying on friends who
posted tidbits from e-mails sent through the prison e-mail
system.  In early April, he was cut off from prison e-mail without
explanation. He used recordings, posted by supporters on the
audio-sharing site SoundCloud to document his prison experience,
as he was moved from  Brooklyn  to a facility in  Pennsylvania  and
then to Allenwood Federal Correctional Complex in White Deer,
Pennsylvania.  weev Speaks  “We live in a country with a childishly authoritarian
government that can’t handle anybody saying anything mean about
it on the Internet,” Auernheimer said in an April 15 clip.  In late April, all his books and papers were taken away and
he was placed in a special housing unit used to separate and
punish inmates.  “The conditions in the SHU here are pretty terrible,”
Auernheimer wrote in a letter dated May 1 to  Bloomberg News .
“We are rotated on a weekly basis between solitary confinement
and extreme overcrowding. Right now I am subject to the latter,
in a bunk where I cannot even sit up.”  Auernheimer compared the unit to Japanese prison camps in
World War II. He said he was passing the time by meditating.  Auernheimer was told by prison authorities that he is under
investigation for “abusing the telephone,” according to his
lawyer, Tor Ekeland. Administrative detention is typically used
for inmates under investigation for misconduct, Bureau of
Prisons spokesman Chris Burke said, while declining to comment
in more detail.  Ekeland contends Auernheimer’s treatment amounts to
retaliation for his dogged use of technology to document and
publicize his prison experience and hammer against the anti-hacking law.  “I don’t see any other reason for them doing it,” Ekeland
said. “Right now our focus is filing the appeal, but we’re
probably going to litigate the prison issues.”  The case is U.S. v. Auernheimer, 2:11-cr-00470, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dune Lawrence in New York at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  