-- Mauritius’s AfrAsia Bank CEO Sees Kenya as Next Expansion Step
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-06-17T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/mauritius-s-afrasia-bank-ceo-sees-kenya-as-next-expansion-step.html
AfrAsia Bank Ltd., a closely held
Mauritian corporate lender, said it’s considering expanding in
 Kenya  after acquiring a stake in a Zimbabwean financial company
last year.  “We are actively looking at Kenya as a first priority,”
AfrAsia’s Chief Executive Officer James Benoit, 47, said in an
e-mail yesterday. Many “imports and exports from surround
countries transit through Kenya” giving the country a key role
in the region, he said.  Kenya, East  Africa ’s biggest economy, had its growth
forecast raised to 5.7 percent for 2013 by the World Bank today
from an earlier estimate of 5 percent. That compares with an
estimate for growth of 2.4 percent this year for South Africa,
the continent’s biggest economy, according to the Reserve Bank
of South Africa.  Operating in Kenya will allow the lender to get into the
eastern African market faster with more opportunities for
structured finance, according to Benoit.  “We are already hiring corporate and private bankers to
cover that market and raising specialized investment funds to
provide a full range of banking,” Benoit said.  AfrAsia owns about 40 percent of AfrAsia Kingdom Zimbabwe
Ltd, a Harare-based financial group and has operations in South
Africa.  “We are in our very early days of expansion in Africa,”
Benoit said in a separate interview in Johannesburg on June 14.
“It will take one more year before we see the big results” at
Kingdom Bank as new technology is added and employees are
trained, he said.  Mauritius’s GML, the country’s biggest company by revenue
and assets according to the Top 100 Companies compiled by
Business Publications Ltd., is AfrAsia’s biggest shareholder
with about 39 percent at close of fiscal 2012, data from the
lender show. Intrasia Capital Pte Ltd. and  France ’s Proparco
hold a combined 23 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  