-- Automakers Pressed to Sell No-Emission Cars to Reluctant Buyers
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-06-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/automakers-pressed-to-sell-no-emission-cars-to-reluctant-buyers.html
Automakers are coming under
increasing pressure to sell zero-emission vehicles to U.S.
consumers who haven’t shown much interest in them, with more
states following California’s lead in setting sales targets.  Nine states, including  New York  and  New Jersey , have
adopted versions of California’s goal of having electric, plug-in hybrid and hydrogen-powered models reach 15 percent of its
new-car purchases by 2025. Automakers face fines and potentially
restrictions on sales for not reaching the targets.  One model made to meet the standards,  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s
plug-in electric Fit, had total U.S. sales of 83 through May,
according to market-researcher Autodata Corp.  “They are essentially forcing vehicles to be built and
delivered to dealers who are forced to sell them,” said Bailey
Wood, legislative director of the National Automobile Dealers
Association, based in McLean, Virginia.  Honda had set a goal of delivering 1,100 electric Fits over
two years. With a two-year supply sitting on dealer lots, the
carmaker this month cut its lease rate by about one-third, to
$259 a month, for new and existing customers. Three days ago,
the company said some customers now have to wait for more EVs to
be produced before they can get one.  Its decision followed similar moves by  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  for the Chevrolet Volt and all-electric
Leaf. The Leaf and Volt, unlike the electric Fit, are available
in the whole U.S. market. Niche electric-car makers Fisker
Automotive Inc. and Coda Automotive stopped making vehicles last
year.  ‘Inherently Risky’  Requiring minimum numbers of plug-in vehicle sales is
“inherently a risky strategy,” said Edward Cohen, Honda vice
president for government and industry affairs. The mandate
“directs manufacturers to offer consumers technology options
along a pre-determined time frame and with specified numbers
notwithstanding whether the technology and market are ready.”  About one-third of 1 percent of the 6.4 million new
vehicles sold in the first five months of the year were zero-emission vehicles, according to the dealers group.  U.S. regulators, who require automakers to raise to 54.5
miles (88 kilometers) per gallon by 2025 the average fuel-economy of the vehicle fleets they sell in the country, say
getting to that goal will require 1 percent to 3 percent of
vehicles sold to be electrics.  “An electric car is the lowest hanging fruit on the tree
requiring the least amount of change from the consumer of
anything we can do to reduce greenhouse gas emissions,” Steve
Crolius, transportation director for the Clinton Climate
Initiative, said at a fuel-efficiency forum June 13 at Consumer
Reports magazine’s headquarters in Yonkers, New York. The group
is part of the William J. Clinton Foundation, established by the
former president.  Consumer Driven  The lower-priced electric Fit is still more expensive than
the internal-combustion engine-powered version, which leases for
$169 a month with $1,999 down.  At the end of May, there was a 162-day inventory of Volts,
according to Ward’s Automotive Group. That compares with a 50-day inventory for the top-selling  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  Camry.  “ There are only a select number of income brackets that
can afford them,” Wood said. “The Chevy Volt in terms of price
tag is equivalent to a fairly equipped BMW 3 Series. At the end
of the day, we are a consumer-driven economy, particularly in
the  auto industry .”  Charging Stations  U.S. regulators and policymakers want to reduce the extra
expense of electric cars so more consumers can afford them, Ann
Schlenker, director of Argonne National Laboratory’s Center for
Transportation Research, said at the Consumer Reports forum.  She cited Energy Department figures showing it takes about
five years of driving an electric vehicle to make up the extra
upfront costs in fuel savings. That compares with a year and a
half for a hybrid vehicle, she said.  “The attempt is to get to a three-year payback period”
for plug-in electrics, she said.  The availability of charging stations and the time it takes
to recharge are other hurdles to wider consumer acceptance. New
York is among states spending money to promote and develop
electric-vehicle technology, Patrick Bolton, New York State
Energy Research and Development Authority senior project
manager, said at the Consumer Reports event.  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  has a program, also funded
with private-sector money, to install more than 80 charging
stations throughout the state. The first of those was unveiled
last month at a Homewood Suites hotel in Colonie, New York.  Early Adopters  The  Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers , whose members
include GM and Toyota, was one of two Washington-based
automotive trade groups that in March filed a petition with the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency last month to block
California’s sales targets.  “The sales data tell the story of what consumers want,”
said  Gloria Bergquist , a spokeswoman for the Alliance. “The
early adopters have purchased plug-in electric vehicles but
mainstream consumers have not followed yet.”  The state mandates are separate from the U.S. fuel-economy
standards set by federal regulators.  U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administrator  David Strickland  said the fuel-economy standards are “technology
neutral.”  “States can make the decision in terms of their own
particular needs,” he said at the Consumer Reports panel.
“That was a policy decision they chose to make, but from a
federal perspective, we want to remain technology neutral.”  GM, Honda  California’s mandate, which accounts for about one-third of
U.S. electric-vehicle sales, is part of the state’s effort to
reduce emissions from vehicles, power plants and oil refineries.  “Both a market push and market pull are needed, and they
need to be in sync,” said Roland Hwang, the San Francisco-based
transportation program director for the  Natural Resources
Defense Council  and a supporter of the  California  mandate. “We
need both a long-term, stable signal for automakers to produce
electric cars and a robust, growing consumer market.”  Sales won’t be helped if reluctant automakers sandbag
sales, he said.  “Who killed the electric car, part three?” Hwang asked.
“Some automakers are more committed than others to the clean
car market. And it may surprise some that the industry doesn’t
follow the past patterns. We now have GM as one of the biggest
champions of electrification and Honda as one of the biggest
skeptics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  