-- Balotelli Is Feted in Brazil as Pirlo Scores in 100th Italy Game
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-06-17T03:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/balotelli-is-feted-in-brazil-as-pirlo-scores-in-100th-italy-game.html
Nine days after getting sent off in
a soccer  World Cup  qualifier,  Italy  striker  Mario Balotelli  left
the field to a standing ovation following his winning goal in
his team’s Confederations Cup opener.  Balotelli was lauded by the majority of the 73,123
spectators inside Rio de Janeiro’s Maracana stadium yesterday
when he was substituted eight minutes after scoring the second-half goal that gave Italy a 2-1 victory against  Mexico .  “The fans are maybe conditioned by the way a player plays
and by the way a player shows fair play,” Italy coach Cesare Prandelli told reporters. “Mario played very well.”  Balotelli’s departure from the game contrasted with his
exit from Italy’s scoreless draw against the Czech Republic on
June 7, when he kicked and punched the players’ tunnel after
being ejected for receiving two yellow cards in the space of
three minutes. He later apologized for his actions.  His 78th-minute strike yesterday helped ensure Andrea Pirlo’s 100th international match ended in a victory. Pirlo had
earlier put Italy ahead with a curling free kick in the 27th
minute before Manchester United striker  Javier Hernandez  tied it
with with a penalty kick seven minutes later.  The victory means Italy and  Brazil  top Group A after the
tournament host, which is using the eight-team event as a tuneup
for its staging of the 2014 World Cup, beat  Japan  3-0 two days
ago. World champion  Spain  defeated Uruguay 2-1 in yesterday’s
Group B opener. Tahiti faces  Nigeria  today in  Belo Horizonte .  More Protests  The match at the Maracana was the first competitive game at
the stadium since it was reopened in April following a refit
that cost about $500 million. Before the kick off, police used
tear gas to clear protesters at a Confederations Cup game for
the second straight day.  The demonstrations come amid anger over the cost of
Brazil’s hosting of the World Cup. President  Dilma Rousseff  was
jeered by sections of the crowd before the national team beat
Japan in Brasilia, a game that also was preceded by protests.  “I want to first see the overall picture before I give my
opinion,” Sports Minister Aldo Rebelo told reporters yesterday.  For Italy, the competition is a chance to improve on its
group-stage elimination at the 2009 Confederations Cup in  South
Africa . The Italians failed to win a World Cup game in the same
country a year later.  The pre-match focus was on Pirlo. The Juventus midfielder,
a member of Italy’s 2006 World Cup-winning team, had talked
about his free kick technique on the eve of the game and got the
chance to demonstrate his skill in the 27th minute.  Childhood Dream  The 34-year-old jogged five paces toward the ball before
sweeping it over the wall and beyond Mexico goalkeeper Jose
Corona from 25 yards out. He had time to kiss the ring finger on
his left hand before being mobbed by his teammates.  “It’s a great feeling to get 100 caps and to score in the
game, especially in a historical stadium like the Maracana,”
said Pirlo, who voted as the man of the match. “I could only
have dreamed about this as a child.”  Coach Prandelli said Pirlo was deserving of the milestone.  “ Andrea Pirlo  is football for us in Italy,” he said.
“He’s never wanted to become a character, he’s very down to
earth, very normal. But he’s always been a fantastic player on
the pitch.”  Mexico threatened to spoil the occasion when Andrea Barzagli lost the ball to Giovani dos Santos and hauled the
Mexican winger down in the penalty area. Hernandez rolled the
resultant spot-kick into the corner to make it 1-1.  With Italy failing to convert its dominance of possession
into chances, Balotelli conjured a goal from an unlikely
position. He controlled Emanuele Giaccherini’s pass with his
back to goal before using his strength to get beyond Mexico
captain  Francisco Rodriguez  and shoot past Corona.  Balotelli got a yellow card for removing his shirt in
celebration, a regular occurrence during his career.  “We had talked about this to Mario,” Prandelli said. “We
told him everyone has seen his muscles by now. As of the next
game he doesn’t need to show off his muscles by taking off his
shirt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Maracana Stadium in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net  