-- Beijing Tightens Presale Rules as Home Prices Rise Under Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-17T05:59:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/beijing-tightens-presale-rules-as-home-prices-rise-under-curbs.html
Beijing is tightening rules for real
estate projects as local officials seek new measures to contain
a rebound in  home prices .  The city will require non-residential projects and
residential developments bigger than an average 140 square
meters (1,506 square feet) to meet requirements on construction
progress before applying for presale permits, the local housing
bureau said June 14. The move follows a June 6 rule ordering
presale proceeds to be managed by banks and paid to developers
gradually as construction progresses.  The Chinese capital has introduced the country’s strictest
property curbs to deter speculators, including minimum down-payment requirements of 70 percent for second homes and a ban on
single-person households buying more than one residence. New-home prices in Beijing increased 2 percent in May from April,
when they rose 3.1 percent, the biggest gain among  China ’s four
first-tier cities, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)   The new measures, which will increase builders’ funding
needs before sales begin and restrict their flexibility in using
the presale proceeds, “are putting pressure on developers to
accelerate new market supplies,” Hu Jinghui, a vice president
of Bacic & 5i5j Group, the city’s second-biggest property
broker, said in a statement yesterday. The city “aims to
increase developers’ risk factors and interfere with their
expectations for higher home prices.”  China requires developers to obtain presale permits from
local housing authorities before they can sell apartments under
construction. Builders also need to get other documents
including land-use rights and construction permits.  Localized Policies  Developers can’t apply for presale permits for buildings
with fewer than seven floors until the main structure is
completed, or until half of the stories are done for taller
projects, according to the June 14  statement  on the local
housing bureau’s website. The requirements apply to all non-residential projects whose land is bought after Aug. 1.  Beijing’s stricter presale rules “imply housing policies
may become more localized,” Jinsong Du, a property research
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in  Hong Kong , wrote in an e-mailed note yesterday. “While this new measure should not have
near term impact on Beijing’s housing supply, some may view it
as a sign of further tightening measures to come.”  Former Premier  Wen Jiabao  on Feb. 20 called on city
governments to “decisively” curb real estate speculation and
rein in a rebound in housing prices this year. China’s new-home
prices jumped 6.9 percent in May from a year earlier, the most
since they reversed declines in December, according to SouFun,
the country’s biggest real estate website owner.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  