-- BHP Gives Evidence on Bribery Charges Linked to Beijing Olympics
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-06-17T04:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/bhp-gives-evidence-on-bribery-charges-linked-to-beijing-olympics.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest mining company, said it has provided evidence to
authorities investigating alleged breaches of anti-corruption
laws linked to the Beijing Olympics.  The Melbourne-based company has “disclosed to relevant
authorities evidence that it has uncovered regarding possible
violations of applicable anti-corruption laws involving
interactions with government officials,” it said today in an
emailed statement.  BHP is the subject of U.S. and Australian inquiries into
its dealings with foreign officials, including Chinese
dignitaries, under a multimillion-dollar hospitality and
sponsorship program at the 2008 Olympics,  Australia ’s The Age
newspaper reported today. Documents released by the Australian
Federal Police to the paper show an investigation into the
charges was reopened in February after being closed in 2011.  The company said an internal inquiry remains under way,
after it began in 2009 in response to questions from the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. BHP didn’t provide more
information on the allegations or to which authorities it is
providing assistance.  “The internal investigation is continuing and the group is
cooperating with the relevant authorities and reporting the
facts found in the investigation,” according to the statement.
“It is not possible at this time to predict the likely outcomes
of the matter.”  Troy Daniel, a spokesman for the Australian Securities and
Investments Commission, declined to comment on the case. The
Australian Federal Police didn’t immediately respond to a phone
call and an e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  