-- Biggest Danish Banks Told Systemic Assets Can Be Bailed Out
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-06-18T09:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/biggest-banks-in-denmark-told-systemic-assets-can-be-bailed-out.html
Denmark  will do what it can to
protect banking assets needed to sustain the economy, the head
of the nation’s central bank said.  “Concerning systemic institutions, one would do everything
possible to protect the systemically important parts, which
would include considerations to the well-being of the general
public,” Governor Lars Rohde said in an interview in
Copenhagen.  Denmark’s six biggest banks, identified by a government
committee in March as systemically important to the $325 billion
economy, are urging policy makers to back the designation with
explicit assurances their creditors will never be bailed in. The
government has argued against a blanket guarantee, while its
advisory body, the Economic Council, says a broader bailout
clause is needed.  Rohde is siding with the head of the committee on
systemically important financial institutions, Michael Moeller,
who has warned against giving blanket guarantees. The central
bank is ready to use its tools to help Denmark’s biggest banks
to the extent that doing so would aid the economy, Rohde said.  “Whether that means doing bail-ins or bail-outs will have
to be a deliberate consideration,” he said.  Copy Sweden  Denmark’s systemically important banks, led by  Danske Bank
A/S (DANSKE)  and mortgage lender Nykredit Realkredit A/S, face as much as
5 percentage points in additional  capital requirements  if
lawmakers back the March proposals. Danske Chief Financial
Officer, Henrik Ramlau-Hansen, said last month Denmark should
copy  Sweden , where too-big-to-fail designation comes with an
explicit promise from the government to bail the banks out.  The banks have argued the additional  reserve requirements 
will hamper lending growth in the Scandinavian economy that’s
suffered most since the 2008 failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. Most recently, the Financial Supervisory Authority
yesterday ordered Danske to assign a higher probability of
losses to its corporate loans, adding to the cost of lending.  The regulator is requiring that Danske add about 100
billion kroner to its risk-weighted assets. Danske has said it
may appeal the decision, which will add 15 billion kroner to its
equity requirement before 2022, Ramlau-Hansen said last night.  Danske shares slumped as much as 8 percent when the market
opened in Copenhagen today, contributing to a drop as deep as
1.1 percent in the benchmark OMXC20 index of Denmark’s biggest
stocks. The yield on Danske’s 3.875 percent note due February
2017 rose four basis points to 1.53 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Funding Costs  The central bank in Copenhagen said last week banks should
expect lower funding costs from their Sifi designation. Rohde is
also urging the industry to consider a model that bases bank
contributions to Denmark’s deposit guarantee program on risk
profiles.  Denmark became the first European Union nation to force
losses on senior creditors in 2011, with the failure of
Amagerbanken A/S in February of that year. The government has
since repeatedly underlined its commitment to rules that protect
taxpayers from financial industry losses.  Denmark’s bail-in legislation is shielding the economy from
asset bubbles and protecting the government’s stable Aaa rating,
Moody’s Investors Service said in a June 6 interview.  Protecting AAA  While the bail-in law has safeguarded Denmark’s sovereign
rating, the financial industry has seen credit grades suffer.
Moody’s said in April the wording of the Sifi committee’s
proposals was too vague to trigger the ratings upgrades Danish
lenders had anticipated.  Bondholders still deem Denmark’s banks a riskier investment
than their Swedish peers. Five-year credit-default swaps on
senior unsecured notes issued by Danske Bank trade about 53
basis points higher than similar contracts on debt sold by
 Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  of Sweden. Moody’s rates Danske Baa1, four steps
below the Aa3 credit grade it gives Nordea.  European Union resolution laws will ultimately determine
how much freedom national authorities have to bail out of bail
in their lenders, Rohde said.  “The average rating must be the same, with or without
state support for banks,” he said.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  