-- BlackBerry Defends Smartphone Security After G-20 Spy Report
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-06-17T20:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/blackberry-defends-smartphone-security-after-g-20-spying-report.html
BlackBerry defended the security of
its smartphones after the  Guardian newspaper  reported a British
agency  penetrated  the devices at Group of 20 meetings in 2009 to
monitor phone calls and e-mail traffic.  Evidence of the monitoring came from top-secret documents
that American Edward Snowden showed the Guardian. The documents,
which the London-based paper said belong to the intelligence arm
known as Government Communications Headquarters, tout success in
reading BlackBerry traffic. One excerpt titled “BlackBerry at
G20” reads, “Delivered messages to analysts during the G20 in
near real-time.”  “We remain confident in the superiority of BlackBerry’s
mobile security platform for customers using our integrated
device and enterprise server technology,” Waterloo, Ontario-based BlackBerry said in an e-mailed statement today. “There is
no ‘back door’ pipeline to that platform.” The company said it
couldn’t comment specifically on media reports of government
surveillance.  BlackBerry has built a following among lawyers, bankers and
government workers because of the security of its devices and
the fact that it operates a network of servers on behalf of its
clients. The company is counting on that reputation as it seeks
to claw back market share lost in recent years to Apple Inc. and
Samsung Electronics Co.  BlackBerry shares  fell  less than 1 percent to $14.30 at the
close in  New York .  Snowden’s Leak  “We never comment on security or intelligence issues and I
am not about to start now,” U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
told broadcasters today in Enniskillen,  Northern Ireland , where
he is hosting the Group of Eight, or G-8. “I don’t make
comments on security or intelligence issues. That would be
breaking something that no government has previously done.”  Snowden is a former U.S. National Security Agency
contractor who earlier this month said he leaked classified
documents about government surveillance programs. His
disclosures to the Guardian and Washington Post forced the
administration of President  Barack Obama  to confirm the
existence of two surveillance programs, one designed to collect
phone call records from millions of U.S. citizens and another
that monitors the Internet activity of foreigners with links to
terrorism.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  