-- Bloomberg to Require New Yorkers to Recycle Food for Composting
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-06-17T15:52:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/bloomberg-to-require-new-yorkers-to-recycle-food-for-composting.html
New York City  will require residents
to separate  food waste  for collection to be composted by 2016,
following a voluntary program at 150,000 single-family homes and
100 apartment buildings.  A pilot program that started in May on  Staten Island , the
borough with the highest percentage of single-family homes,
achieved a participation rate of 43 percent, the mayor’s office
said today in an e-mail.  “By recycling food waste, we can cut down on the total
amount of trash we send to landfills and put it to better use as
compost for community gardens or even energy,” said Caswell
Holloway, deputy mayor for operations. “This is an innovative
program that’s already seen success in homes on Staten Island
and our public schools, and we’re excited to expand it to more
 New Yorkers .”  Food scraps make up about 1.2 million tons, or 35 percent,
of the city’s annual waste, which gets sent to landfills at a
cost of about $80 per ton, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said in
February, when he announced the goal. Recycled waste could be
used as fertilizer or converted to natural gas at much lower
prices, the mayor said. The initiative is part of a broader goal
to divert 30 percent of waste from landfills by 2017.  The New York Times reported on the pilot program today.  Curbside Pickup  Under the program, New Yorkers will collect food scraps in
containers, to be deposited in brown receptacles on the curb for
pickup by garbage trucks. Apartment dwellers will empty their
pails of uneaten waste at collection points, as they do now with
recycled glass and paper, officials said.  The current pilot program collects organic waste for
composting. Ultimately, officials envision construction of a
plant within the city to convert scraps into natural gas as well
as fertilizer.  The Sanitation Department collects more than 3 million tons
of waste every year from residences and institutions, and spends
more than $300 million to dispose of it in landfills and
conventional waste-to-energy facilities, often in other states.  In January 2012, the mayor set a goal of doubling the
diversion rate, the percentage of waste not sent to landfills
thanks to recycling, composting or energy conversion.  Officials intend to have about 25,000 residents
participating in neighborhoods in the five boroughs by year-end,
before expanding the voluntary program in the next two years.  New York  has at least 2.9 million residential units divided
among single-family homes, condominiums, cooperatives and
apartment rentals, according to Owen Stone, a spokesman for the
Finance Department.  School Recycling  The city also began recycling food in about 90 public
schools in Brooklyn and  Manhattan  this past term. Manhattan
schools increased diversion from trash to 34 percent from 15
percent; in Brooklyn the rate rose to 38 percent from 15
percent, the mayor’s office said.  New York, whose 8.4 million residents make it the most
populous U.S. city, would become the largest to require
recycling of food scraps. Smaller, less dense cities, such as
 San Francisco  and  Seattle , require food recycling from homes.  The plan would have to be administered by the mayor who
succeeds Bloomberg, whose third and final term ends Dec. 31. Two
Democratic mayoral candidates, City Council Speaker Christine Quinn and Public Advocate Bill de Blasio, each support the
compost plan, their spokesmen said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  