-- Boyner Drops as Protests Disturb Turkish Retail: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-06-17T15:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/boyner-drops-as-protests-disturb-turkish-retail-istanbul-mover.html
Boyner Buyuk Magazacilik AS (BOYNR) , a
Turkish clothes and cosmetics retailer, dropped the most in a
week after the government said businesses supporting anti-government protesters would “pay a price.”  Shares of the Istanbul-based company fell 2.4 percent, the
most since June 10, to 5.76 liras at the close. Protests
continued in the city over the weekend and thousands of workers
went on strike today, after Premier Recep Tayyip Erdogan
addressed supporters at a pro-government rally.  Erdogan has blamed business leaders, foreign media and
“extremist groups” for fueling the unrest that started May 31
and was triggered by the rejection of plans to redevelop a
public park. Boyner has slumped 10 percent this month, outpacing
an 8.2 percent drop for the  Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange
National 100 Index. (XU100)  A gauge of  consumer services companies 
slumped 1.3 percent today, matching a decline by the same amount
for the benchmark.  “Retailers have generally been hard hit by protests,”
Ilyas Safa Urganci, an analyst at Is Investment in Istanbul,
said in a phone interview. “Shopping mall occupancy rates are
expected to decline, and many Boyner stores are situated in such
malls in big cities.”  ‘Terror-Collaborators’  The protests have broadened into a wider movement targeting
the government for what demonstrators say is an increasingly
authoritarian approach.  “We know very well those who sent 30,000 rations to Taksim
Square,” the main site for the demonstrations in central
Istanbul, the official Anatolia News Agency cited the prime
minister as saying yesterday. “We also well know those who host
terror-collaborators in their hotel. Won’t there be a price to
pay for these?”  Boyner had 145 stores across  Turkey  at the end of 2012,
according to its website. The company  posted a loss  of 3.82
million liras ($2.1 million) in the first quarter after a profit
of 894,818 liras in the same period a year earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  More than 58,000 Boyner shares were traded today, about 24
percent of the stock’s three-month daily average, according to
 data compiled by Bloomberg.   To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  