-- Brazil Protests Resume After Rousseff Jeered at Soccer Game
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   T e l m a   M a r o t t o
-- 2013-06-17T14:55:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/brazil-protests-to-resume-after-rousseff-jeered-at-soccer-match.html
As many as 20,000 Brazilians are
expected to march in Sao Paulo today in what organizers vow will
be the biggest yet in a wave of protests to rock Latin America’s
largest economy in little more than a week.  Authorities are pledging to keep riot police at bay to
avoid a repeat of clashes June 13 that left dozens wounded when
rubber bullets and tear gas were fired upon activists protesting
an increase in bus fares. Groups in three other cities -- Rio de
Janeiro, Brasilia and Belo Horizonte -- are also taking to the
streets today.  The demonstrations have grown larger and spread across the
country as discontent about inflation and the economy mount,
fueling dissatisfaction with President Dilma Rousseff. The
president, whose approval rating slipped eight percentage points
this month, was jeered at a packed soccer stadium over the
weekend while inaugurating the Confederations Cup.  “An alarm has sounded,” Alexandre Barros, head of
Brasilia-based political risk consulting firm Early Warning.
“The average Brazilian doesn’t know what the government should
do, but they feel their pockets being pinched.”  Soccer fans  booed  Rousseff for more than a minute as she
was introduced in Brasilia at the June 15 opening of the two-week tournament, a warm-up to next year’s World Cup. The
heckling intensified when Sepp Blatter, president of soccer’s
governing body FIFA, admonished the crowd for not showing
“respect.” A stern-faced Rousseff then cut short the moment
with a single sentence declaring a start to the tournament.  Soccer Protests  The president’s political allies played down the
significance of the jeering at a game where tickets cost more
than $100 -- about a quarter of  Brazil ’s monthly minimum wage.
Jose Guimaraes, leader of the ruling Workers’ Party in the lower
house, told O Estado de S. Paulo newspaper that rowdy fans
would’ve greeted any politician introduced the same way.  Rousseff’s office declined to comment.  Outside the Brasilia stadium, dozens of demonstrators
blocked traffic and taunted patrons to protest the 30 billion
reais ($13.9 billion) the government is spending on arenas and
related investments to host the World Cup.  Blatter said groups were using the international media
spotlight provided by the tournament to voice their grievances.  “Today is the third day of the competition, this will calm
down,” Blatter said in an interview in Rio today.  Bus Protests  The demonstrations in major Brazilian cities were started
by a student group called the Free Fare Movement, which has
advocated an end to bus fares since 2005. The marches have grown
after television broadcasts of police battling activists and
have since evolved into a catch-all for groups and individuals
protesting everything from corruption and income inequality to
environmental concerns and urban violence.  Underlying the dissatisfaction is a deteriorating economic
outlook. Rousseff’s mentor and predecessor, Luiz Inacio Lula da
Silva, is credited with helping lift 40 million people out of
poverty while keeping prices tame during his eight-year term.
Under Rousseff, the economy has posted its worst two-year period
of growth in more than a decade, while  inflation  has risen to
6.5 percent in May, the top of the central bank’s target range.  Analysts in the latest central bank survey forecast growth
of 2.49 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Telma Marotto in Sao Paulo at 
 tmarotto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  