-- Bulgaria Premier Resists Calls to Quit Over Security Chief Pick
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-06-17T10:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/bulgaria-premier-resists-calls-to-quit-over-security-chief-pick.html
Bulgarian Prime Minister Plamen Oresharski said he won’t quit after thousands of people marched
in the country’s largest cities in the past three days demanding
his resignation over the appointment of a security chief.  Stepping down now would be “an easy personal choice, but
politically irresponsible and would destabilize the country,”
Oresharski said on the private television channel BTV today. He
accepted the resignation of Delyan Peevski as head of the State
Agency for National Security on June 15, a day after Parliament
approved his appointment.  Oresharski rose to power last month after anti-austerity
protests forced out his predecessor Boyko Borissov’s government,
leading to a May 12 snap election. As many as 15,000 people took
to the streets of Sofia again after Peevski was confirmed by
Parliament, a move criticized by President Rosen Plevneliev and
European Union countries. Demonstrations that have spread across
the country are set to continue today.  “The appointment was a mistake,” Oresharski said. “I
realize part of our government’s legitimacy is lost, but in case
of a resignation, there will be no legitimacy at all at a very
crucial time for the country, when it needs to negotiate with
the EU funding of about 15 billion euros for the next seven
years.”  The yield on  Bulgaria ’s euro bonds maturing in 2017 rose
three basis points to 1.9539 percent by 1:22 p.m. in Sofia,
according to data complied by Bloomberg.  EU Criticism  The EU has repeatedly criticized Bulgaria, its poorest
member, for not doing enough to fight corruption and organized
crime, urging the Balkan country to investigate graft among
senior government officials.  Peevski, a lawmaker from the junior coalition party Turk
Movement of Rights and Freedoms, which represents Bulgaria’s
Turkish minority, has interests in a dozen national newspapers,
two television stations and businesses ranging from
telecommunications and tobacco to automotive industries, Capital
newspaper said on June 14, without saying where it got the
information.  Oresharski said he plans to nominate another candidate for
the country’s top security job in the next several days and will
meet with representatives of the protesters today to discuss
their demands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  