-- Burlington’s Quest for Fast Internet Slows Credit Rating
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-06-17T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/burlington-s-quest-for-fast-internet-slows-credit-rating.html
Burlington,  Vermont ’s most-populous
city, is on the verge of losing its investment-grade bond
ranking with a municipally backed project to bring high-speed
Internet service siphoning taxpayers’ funds and prompting a
property-tax increase.  In the Lake Champlain city’s April sale of taxable general
obligations, debt maturing in November 2023 was priced to yield
4.63 percent, or about 2.9 percentage points above similar-maturity Treasuries. The yield spread grew to about 3 percentage
points last week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In 2009, the
city issued similar securities maturing in 10 years at a spread
of about 1.1 percentage points.  With a mediator unable last month to settle a lawsuit by a
Citigroup Inc. unit over the Internet project, Moody’s Investors
Service is warning that the city of 42,000 risks being
downgraded to junk. Dean Sandros at Meridian, Idaho-based United
Heritage Life Insurance is considering parting with his
Burlington holdings.  “It might be time to take a gain and be done with them,”
said Sandros, who oversees $400 million in munis.  Burlington, where Ben & Jerry’s opened its first ice cream
shop in 1978, carries debt equal to 1.5 percent of the tax base,
a load more typical of a municipality rated A, according to
Moody’s. Its Internet adventure began in the 1990s, when cable
companies refused to bring high-speed service to the city, said
Joan Shannon, the city council president. So residents voted to
start Burlington Telecom and build their own fiber-optic
network.  Citibank Sues  In 2002, the city struck a deal with Scottsdale, Arizona-based Koch Financial Corp. to fund the project, which was
expected to bring in $22 million in the first decade of
operations, according to papers filed by Citigroup unit Citibank
in a 2011 federal-court lawsuit. The lender took action four
years after it agreed to refinance the deal and signed a leasing
agreement that would eventually allow Burlington to take
ownership.  “Considerably more was spent to build out the system than
had been initially projected,” said Mayor Miro Weinberger, a
43-year-old Democrat elected last year. “There’s been real
criticism about how that spending was done.” Subscriber levels
never met forecasts, he said, while declining to provide
details.  Burlington, home of the University of Vermont, joins
localities from  Minnesota  to  Pennsylvania  facing fiscal
challenges after embarking on projects to boost their economies
or expand municipal services.  Harrisburg’s Incinerator  A development agency for Moberly, Missouri, last year
defaulted on bonds issued for an artificial-sweetener plant that
was never built. Pennsylvania’s capital, Harrisburg, was thrown
into state receivership by an incinerator project that doesn’t
generate enough cash to cover its obligations.  In Vermont, Burlington Telecom spent $45 million more than
its revenue from 2005 to 2009, according to a report by Larkin &
Associates, a Livonia, Michigan, accounting firm hired by the
city. The costs included construction for which the company
“overpaid,” according to a 2010 report by a group composed of
seven Burlington business leaders and citizens.  From 2007 to 2009, facing mounting costs, the municipality
transferred about $17 million to Burlington Telecom from its
general fund. A state order put a stop to the payments, citing a
provision in the city charter protecting taxpayers from losses
incurred by the venture.  Back Payments  In its suit against the Vermont city, New York-based
Citibank sought $33.5 million -- equivalent to 59 percent of the
municipal budget -- to recover back payments and construction
costs from the city’s general fund. Last month, the two sides
failed to settle through mediation.  “From a credit perspective, it is about what the city
could potentially lose,” Geordie Thompson, a Moody’s senior
analyst in New York, said in an interview. The company ranks
the city Baa3, the lowest level of investment grade.  “We see this situation occur when a local government
becomes involved in a service of some sort that has
representation in the private sector and is open to significant
competition,” Thompson said.  Weinberger says the city didn’t guarantee Burlington
Telecom’s debt. Yet its potential to drain municipal resources
further is giving investors such as Howard Cure, managing
director for muni research in New York at Evercore Wealth
Management, reason to avoid the municipality’s securities.  ‘Stay Away’  “This would be something, for our firm, that we would stay
away from,” said Cure, whose New York-based firm oversees $4.7
billion. “What we like to see is cities sticking to their
knitting.”  The last lease payment Burlington Telecom made was in
November 2009, according to Citibank’s complaint filed in
Burlington federal court. The court has ordered the parties to
be ready for trial by Jan. 1.  “We are continuing to proceed with litigation due to the
city’s failure to honor their contractual obligations, including
the return of equipment we financed,” Mark Rodgers, a Citigroup
spokesman, said by e-mail.  Citibank’s suit against Burlington claims breach of
contract and asks the court for compensatory damages of $33.5
million. It also seeks undetermined punitive damages and the
removal and return of equipment leased to the city.  Burlington’s Answer  Burlington, in an answer filed in December 2011, said it
made offers to return or replace the equipment. It blamed
Citibank for the failure to meet financial projections because
it “reneged on a promise” to offer additional financing to
complete the work.  It also alleged the lease agreement was terminated when the
city council decided not to budget funds for it in fiscal 2011,
and thus no more payments were required by law. The city said it
had suffered damages of at least $70 million, which represented
the venture’s losses and damage to the city’s credit rating.  The city asked U.S. District Judge William Sessions in
December to dismiss Citibank’s complaint. He has yet to rule on
the request.  Not all investors are ready to bail out of Burlington.  “I don’t think all city enterprises make money all the
time,” said Phelps S. McIlvaine, a portfolio manager at Saturna
Capital Corp., a Bellingham, Washington-based firm that oversees
$4 billion and holds some Burlington bonds.  Bigger Picture  “You look at their overall credit and not necessarily the
credit of one specific operating entity,” McIlvaine said.  Weinberger, a political neophyte who graduated with a
bachelor of arts degree from Yale University and a master’s
degree from Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of
Government, ran on a platform of fiscal responsibility and says
his administration has “turned around longstanding practices
that had led to debt.”  He said Burlington Telecom is making an operating profit,
though it still can’t repay all that’s owed under the original
agreement with Citibank.  To inject more into the general fund depleted by the
transfers to Burlington Telecom, Weinberger led a campaign that
increased the property tax by $58 per $250,000 of home value. It
was needed to back April’s $9 million general-obligation sale
and address Moody’s concerns. Seventy-two percent of residents
voted for it.  While campaigning for the tax increase, Weinberger said the
city’s near-junk bond rating was “beneath us” and said “it
would be as though we were some dying Rust Belt city.”  Market Week  In the $3.7 trillion municipal market this week, issuers
led by California Health Facilities Financing Authority plan to
sell a combined $8 billion with 30-year yields at the highest
since January 2012. Interest rates on the maturity have risen
for six straight weeks, the longest stretch since February.  Benchmark 30-year munis yield 3.67 percent, compared with
about 3.3 percent for federal debt of a similar maturity. The
ratio of the two yields, a measure of relative value, is about
111 percent, the highest since April 5. The higher the figure,
the cheaper munis are relative to Treasuries.  Munis have lost 1.6 percent this month through June 13,
compared with a decline of 0.1 percent on Treasuries, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data show.  The Vermont case is Citibank N.A. v. City of Burlington,
11-00214, U.S. District Court, District of Vermont (Burlington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  