-- Camp Signals Support for 15% Foreign Patent Income Rate: Taxes
-- B y   A a r o n   E .   L o r e n z o
-- 2013-06-17T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/camp-signals-support-for-15-foreign-patent-income-rate-taxes.html
For companies with a lot of foreign
income from intangible products like patents,  Dave Camp  has a
carrot-and-stick approach to overhauling the  tax code .  Camp, the top Republican tax writer in the U.S. House of
Representatives, says putting a rate of 15 percent on all
foreign income from intellectual property rights and intangibles
would limit revenue erosion when Congress pursues broad  tax
reform , Bloomberg BNA reported.  The incentive would be a deduction for income related to
intangibles kept in the U.S.; the disincentive is an immediate
inclusion for income related to such intangibles held abroad.
Companies would have less pressure to shift income to low-tax
locales because that income would be taxed at the same rate,
whether it is earned in the U.S. or  Bermuda , Camp said.  “Moving intangibles to  tax havens  would have little or no
appeal, since the income earned from those intangibles obviously
would be taxed at the same rate, regardless of location,” said
Camp, who is from  Michigan  and heads the  House Ways and Means
Committee .  These intangibles are part of the fight over offshore cash
and taxes. U.S. companies are shifting more of their revenues
overseas. The nation’s 83 biggest companies increased their
untaxed offshore holdings by 14.4 percent to $1.46 trillion in
the past year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Camp is working on the first major overhaul of the tax code
since 1986 and says he wants Congress to have something done by
year-end. A discussion draft Camp released in late 2011 included
this idea, referred to as “Option C,” as one of three choices to
try to avoid erosion of the tax base.  Effective Safeguard  Companies could get below a 15 percent effective rate by
subtracting any credits for foreign taxes paid on the same
income under Option C, Camp said at a hearing last week on tax
havens, base erosion and profit-shifting. Camp didn’t discuss
the other two options at the hearing.  He said work on the matter with the Joint Committee on
Taxation has led him to believe this plan is an effective
safeguard, and said it has also received the most business
community support among the discussion draft options.  The committee’s ranking member, Michigan Democrat  Sander Levin , noted the recent Senate Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations hearing on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which has an Irish entity
that has received tens of billions of dollars of income with no
tax residence, and also complained that other major U.S.
corporations use legal  tax avoidance  techniques to shift income
overseas, including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)   “The challenge of ending massive tax avoidance must be at
the forefront of any tax reform effort worth its salt,” Levin
said.  Transition Rules  Option C won support from one of the hearing’s witnesses,
Paul Oosterhuis, a partner at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &
Flom LLP. He said it would help neutralize where businesses
locate their factories and similar activities. Differentiation
of products sold into foreign markets from products sold into
the U.S. market represents the top advantage, he said.  Transition rules may be needed for products sold back to
the U.S., similar to what Option C proposes for profits on
intellectual property, he said.  For foreign products, most of which he said come from
consumer businesses, Oosterhuis said the country where the
products are consumed has a large right to tax that income.  Sensible Distinction  For example, he pointed to recent complaints in the U.K.
over inbound companies such as  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and their income
in the country. Option C recognizes that U.S. authorities have
much less of a right to assert jurisdiction to collect revenue
out of that income.  “And I think that’s a very sensible distinction over the
long run,” Oosterhuis said.  University of Southern California law school professor
Edward Kleinbard, another witness at the hearing, expressed
concerns about administering such a plan. He instead advocated a
genuine worldwide tax consolidation with a 25 percent corporate
tax rate.  Kleinbard, who served as the Joint Committee on Taxation’s
chief of staff from 2007 to 2009, said multinational firms are
able to operate within current rules to produce stateless income
by engaging in large-scale base erosion and profit shifting. He
said his option would offer more simplicity and prove more
difficult for tax gaming.  Trapped Cash  “This idea is less wacky than you might think,” Kleinbard
said. “The economic effects of worldwide consolidation are
basically the same as a territorial tax with a 25 percent
worldwide minimum tax as an anti-abuse measure.”  By contrast, he said current law or unprotected
territoriality heavily subsidizes foreign investment at the
expense of the  U.S. economy . Kleinbard conceded that whatever
international taxation choices legislators make in overhauling
the code, a new system will lead to higher statutory taxes paid
by multinational companies, either to the U.S. or abroad.  A growing number of executives at such firms back higher
statutory rates to free up “trapped” cash, the liquid reserves
they cannot easily mobilize at present because of the current
tax system, Oosterhuis said. He added that a corporate  tax rate 
lower than 25 percent would be preferable.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net  