-- Canada Home Sales Rose 3.6% in May in Sign of Robust Growth
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-06-17T14:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/canada-existing-home-sales-rose-3-6-in-may-from-previous-month.html
Canadian existing home sales rose at
their fastest pace in more than two years in May, adding to
evidence the nation’s housing market remains robust even amid
warnings of overbuilding in parts of the housing market.  Home sales increased 3.6 percent in May from the previous
month, the  Canadian Real Estate Association  said in a statement
today, the biggest gain since January 2011. Average  home prices 
rose 0.1 percent in May to C$374,473 ($368,470) and are up 3.7
percent from a year earlier, the realtor group said.  Housing-market data are showing few signs of a sharp
correction even as analysts and policy makers have spoken about
the possibility of a house-price bubble.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  tightened mortgage rules for
a fourth time last year, while the  Bank of Canada  said last week
record household debt is the biggest domestic risk to the
economy and overbuilding in markets such as condominiums in
Toronto could trigger “an abrupt correction in prices.”  “The pop in Canada’s resale housing numbers adds one more
to a series of upbeat economic indicators that exceeded
expectations in recent weeks,” Gregory Klump, chief economist
for the realtor group, said in a statement.  Vancouver  led gains among the country’s three biggest
cities, with an 8.4 percent rise in sales. Realtors in Toronto
boosted sales by 1.4 percent while sales in  Montreal  increased
5.4 percent.  The realtor group also revised its forecasts today,
projecting a 2.5 percent drop in home sales with prices rising
2.1 percent this year. Home sales are seen rising 4.7 percent in
2014 and prices are expected to increase 1.8 percent, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  