-- Canada April International Securities Transactions (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-06-17T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/canada-april-international-securities-transactions-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s international transactions report for April
released by  Statistics Canada .  Non-resident investors acquired $14.9 billion of Canadian
securities in April, adding both debt and equity securities to
their holdings. Meanwhile, Canadian investors added $2.8 billion
of foreign securities, a third straight month of acquisitions.  Foreign investment in Canadian securities was led by debt
instruments, mainly reflecting private corporate bonds and the
first acquisition of money market instruments in 2013. Canadian
investment in foreign securities also focused on debt
instruments in April.  Foreign investment in the Canadian  bond market  led by private
corporate bonds  Non-resident investment in Canadian debt securities reached
$12.8 billion in April. This was the largest investment since
May 2012 and reflected increased demand for both long- and
short-term debt instruments, mainly US dollar-denominated
securities. The Canadian dollar appreciated against its US
counterpart for a second consecutive month in April.  Foreign investors acquired Canadian bonds for a fourth
straight month, adding $7.8 billion worth to their holdings in
April, largely new issues of private corporate bonds. Non-residents continued to increase their holdings of federal bonds,
though the pace of their acquisitions slowed during the month.  Non-residents invested $5.0 billion in the Canadian money
market in April. Inflows were primarily in provincial paper and,
to a lesser extent, private corporate paper. Foreign holdings of
Canadian Treasury bills edged up after three months of sizable
divestments. In April, the differential between long- and short-term  interest rates  was the lowest since July 2012.  Foreign investors resume their investment in Canadian equities  Non-resident investors acquired $2.2 billion of Canadian
equities in April, after two months of divestment. Activity in
the month focused on Canadian gold and energy shares. Canadian
stock prices were down 2.3%, closing the month at their lowest
level in 2013.  Canadian acquisitions of foreign debt securities strengthen  Canadian investors purchased $2.7 billion of foreign bonds
in April, led by demand from pension funds. Canadians resumed
investment in US  government bonds , adding $1.6 billion to their
portfolio, mainly short- to medium-term bonds. The differential
between US and Canadian long-term interest rates narrowed in
April, but remained in favour of investment in the  United States .
Canadians also increased their holdings of foreign paper by $0.7
billion, mostly instruments issued by governments.  Canadian holdings of foreign equities down for the first time in
eight months  Canadian investors reduced their holdings of foreign
equities by $0.7 billion in April, following seven straight
months of acquisitions. Canadian divestment of $1.1 billion in
US equities was the largest since October 2011 and was led by
 information technology  and financial shares. This was partially
offset by a $0.4 billion investment in non-US foreign equities.
The US stock market was up 1.8% in April.  Note to readers  The data series on international transactions in securities
cover portfolio transactions in equity and investment fund
shares, bonds and money market instruments for both Canadian and
foreign issues. This activity excludes transactions in equity
and debt instruments between affiliated enterprises, classified
as foreign direct investment in the international accounts.  Equity and investment fund shares include common and
preferred equities as well as units/shares of investment funds.  Debt securities include bonds and money market instruments.  Bonds have an original term to maturity of more than one
year.  Money market instruments have an original term to maturity
of one year or less.  Government of  Canada  paper includes treasury bills and US-dollar Canada bills.  All values in this release are net transactions unless
otherwise stated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  