-- Canada Dollar Drops on Speculation Fed May Taper Asset Buying
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   J e f f   M a r s h a l l
-- 2013-06-17T21:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/canadian-dollar-gains-with-oil-before-poloz-s-policy-comments.html
The Canadian dollar declined a
second day versus its U.S. peer on speculation the  Federal Open
Market Committee  may start tapering monthly bond purchases that
have a tendency to debase the American currency.  Canada’s currency rose earlier after government figures
showed foreign investors bought the most Canadian securities in
seven months in April and existing home sales rose at their
fastest pace in more than two years in May. Stephen Poloz makes
his first speech as Bank of Canada governor on June 19 in
Oakville, Ontario. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
in May the central bank could reduce purchases if there’s
sustainable improvement in employment.  “The market is pre-positioning for the FOMC meeting,”
 David Tulk , chief macro strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.
“Expectation that Bernanke might consider laying the groundwork
for tapering the asset-purchase program is perhaps giving the
 U.S. dollar  a little bit of a lift, which comes at the expense
of the Canadian dollar.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is nicknamed for the
image of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, dropped 0.2 percent
to C$1.0186 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after touching
C$1.0150. The currency reached C$1.0137 on June 14, the
strongest since May 14. One loonie buys 98.17 U.S. cents.  Oil, Bonds  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, traded at
$97.90 a barrel in New York after gaining as much as 0.9 percent
and falling 0.5 percent. The S&P GSCI  Index (SPGSCI)  of 24 commodities
fell 0.1 percent. The S&P 500  Index (SPX)  of stocks rose 0.8 percent
after gaining as much as 1.2 percent.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year  government bonds  fell, with
yields gaining three points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.15
percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 dropped
26 cents to C$94.22.  The loonie gained earlier as purchases by foreigners
totaled C$14.9 billion ($14.7 billion) in April,  Statistics
Canada  said in Ottawa. Foreign investors bought C$12.8 billion
of debt, including C$6.50 billion of corporate bonds and C$3.20
billion of money-market paper sold by provincial and local
governments. Non-residents also bought C$2.15 billion of
Canadian stocks, according to the report. Economists in a
Bloomberg survey forecast a gain of C$3 billion.  Home sales increased 3.6 percent in May from the previous
month, the  Canadian Real Estate Association  said in a statement
today, the biggest gain since January 2011. Average home prices
rose 0.1 percent in May to C$374,473 ($368,470) and are up 3.7
percent from a year earlier, the realtor group said.  Poloz Bias  Hedge funds  and other large speculators last week  decreased 
their bets the Canadian dollar will decline against the
greenback, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show. The difference in the number of wagers
on a decline in the Canadian dollar compared with those on a
gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 35,907 on June 11, compared
with net shorts of 39,776 a week earlier.  The loonie extended losses after the Financial Times
reported that Bernanke will probably signal a reduction in
monthly purchases, only to pare the drop after the newspaper’s
reporter posted on Twitter that he didn’t have confirmation from
Fed officials and urged investors to “chill out.”  The Fed starts a two-day policy meeting tomorrow as
investors weigh whether the U.S. central bank will taper its
buying of $85 billion of government and mortgage securities a
month to spur the economy. The central bank has kept its target
for overnight lending between banks at almost zero since
December 2008.  ‘Overriding Influence’  “The Fed decision this week and the guidance we’ll get
from Bernanke on Wednesday will be the overriding influence on a
directional bias,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign
exchange at  National Bank of Canada (NA) , said by phone from Toronto.
“With the constructive data that we’ve seen, particularly on
the labor front in Canada, I suspect Poloz will remain passively
hawkish on the bias.”  The loonie gained on June 6 after Poloz, the former chief
executive officer of the nation’s trade financing agency,
reiterated to lawmakers his predecessor  Mark Carney ’s bias to
raise the benchmark  interest rate  as the economy strengthens.
The bank makes its next rate decision on July 17  Carney, who left to head the  Bank of England  on June 1,
kept the key interest rate at 1 percent for the 22nd consecutive
meeting on May 29. Poloz will probably maintain Carney’s no-change policy for at least the rest of the year, according to
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  “Mr. Poloz will probably eschew any early action from the
rates side,”  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, said by phone from London.  Canada’s currency has fallen 1 percent in the past week,
the worst performance among 10 developed nation currencies
tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The
greenback dropped 0.9 percent while the yen led all gainers,
adding 3.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Marshall in New York at 
 jmarshall75@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  