-- Case Says Better to Invest Outside Silicon Valley
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n   a n d   B r a d   S t o n e
-- 2013-06-17T23:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/case-says-better-to-invest-outside-silicon-valley.html
Steve Case, co-founder of  America
Online Inc. (AOL) , said his venture-capital firm Revolution LLC will
keep investing the bulk of its capital outside of Silicon Valley
and New York to find innovative products and businesses.  While the U.S. technology and commercial hubs are still
important, most advances are being made elsewhere in  emerging
markets , Case, 54, said at Bloomberg’s Next Big Thing Summit in
Half Moon Bay, California. More than 80 percent of Revolution’s
investments are outside of those two locations, he said.  Revolution, based in Washington, has invested in coupon-site LivingSocial Inc. and car-sharing provider Zipcar Inc.,
which  Avis Budget Group Inc. (CAR)  acquired for $491 million earlier
this year. Case recently led a $20 million funding round in
Lolly Wolly Doodle Inc., a kids’ clothing startup based in
Lexington, North Carolina, that sells the majority of its
products via Facebook Inc.  “Silicon Valley is awesome, and it’s the pride of America
and the envy of the world,” Case said at the summit. “But it’s
not the only place companies are. I think there’s too much
capital and too much press attention focused on Silicon
Valley.”  Case, who helped start AOL in 1985, also chairs efforts on
entrepreneurship for President  Barack Obama ’s Council on Jobs
and Competitiveness.  “ Detroit  50 years ago was Silicon Valley. It was the
hottest region for the hottest technology in the world, when
automobiles were transforming society,” Case said. “So what
happened? Global competitors stepped up their efforts, basically
started stealing market share.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Milian in San Francisco at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net ;
Brad Stone in San Francisco at 
 bstone12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  