-- CEZ in Longest Rout Since 2000 on Tax, Power Price: Prague Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-06-17T16:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/cez-set-for-longest-rout-since-2000-as-scandal-spurs-tax-concern.html
CEZ AS, the biggest Czech utility,
slid in its longest losing streak in 13 years on concern the
opposition will levy new taxes as Premier Petr Necas resigns.  The shares dropped for a ninth day, sliding 2.9 percent to
500.10 koruna in Prague, the lowest close since July 2005 and
the longest stretch of declines since June 2000. It was the
worst performer in the  PX (PX)  equity index, which lost 0.3 percent.  The opposition Social Democrats, who lead in opinion polls
and plan special taxes on the biggest companies, are pressing
for early elections after Necas said yesterday he was leaving
because of a scandal over illegal spying and bribery. Komercni
Banka AS cut its 12-month price estimate for CEZ to 498 koruna
from 661 koruna in a report to clients from analyst  Josef Nemy .  “Investors should brace themselves for a significant drop
in CEZ’s profit and dividends in the coming years,” Prague-based Nemy wrote. Higher taxes proposed by the opposition, which
are not included in Komercni Banka’s estimates, would further
curb CEZ’s profits and “the recent turbulence in Czech politics
is increasing the likelihood of that scenario,” he said.  The declining share-price cut CEZ’s 14-day relative
strength  index  to 20, below the 30 level signaling in technical
analysis the asset may be oversold and poised for a rebound.
Share turnover today was about 139 percent of the three-month
daily average.  ‘Sharp Decline’  Komercni Banka lowered its recommendation for CEZ to hold
from buy in the report. The average price at which CEZ sells
electricity will “sharply decline” in 2014 and 2015 and the
wholesale-market price will stagnate around 40 euros per
megawatt-hour for the next five years, Nemy wrote.  Europe’s economic slowdown and an oversupply of carbon-emission permits cut the price of base-load power for next-year
delivery in  Germany , where CEZ exports part of its output, to a
record-low 37.75 euros last week. The contracts last traded at
38.10 euros today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Social Democrats would raise taxes on energy, finance
and telecommunications companies to 30 percent from 19 percent,
while other businesses would pay 21 percent, shadow finance
minister Jan Mladek said in a Bloomberg interview on Jan. 23.  ‘Major Risk’  The current government has been rocked by a scandal that
erupted June 13 after night-time police raids of government and
private buildings led to the arrest of eight people, including
Jana Nagyova, the head of Necas’s office. She is charged with
abuse of power in ordering illegal surveillance of three people
and is linked to a bribery case in which prosecutors say former
lawmakers were offered jobs at state-controlled companies.  Necas’s tendering of his resignation, scheduled for late
today, means the automatic dissolution of his cabinet, according
to Czech law. The three coalition parties that control 98 seats
in the 200-member lower house of parliament have to secure a
simple majority in the assembly to install a new administration.
To pass legislation, the coalition has relied on the votes of
former coalition deputies who defected their parties.  The possibility of the opposition getting into power a year
before regular general elections and implementing its tax plans
poses a “major risk for CEZ,” John Milton, a Budapest-based
director at Ipopema Securities SA, said in an e-mail on June 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in  Prague  at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  