-- Cheapest Oil Exploration Target Is in Colombia: Real M&A
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   A n d r e w   W i l l i s
-- 2013-06-17T14:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/cheapest-oil-exploration-target-is-in-colombia-real-m-a.html
Petrominerales Ltd. (PMG) ’s debt load and
50 percent stock drop has created a bargain for energy companies
looking to acquire assets in  South America ’s third-biggest oil
producing country.  The oil explorer, based in Calgary with most of its
operations in  Colombia , has lost more than half its market value
in a year as it sought to tap new finds amid declining output.
That’s left Petrominerales’s equity and net debt valued at the
cheapest multiple to profit among any oil and gas explorer in
the world with a market value higher than $250 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Petrominerales’s reserves, estimated at more than 40
million barrels of mostly high-quality light oil, could attract
its Colombian rival  Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PRE) , according to
Macquarie Group Ltd. While the explorer’s  debt  exceeds its $505
million market value, Petrominerales also has stakes in
Colombian pipelines that may appeal to  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ,
 Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  or even private equity, said FirstEnergy Capital
Corp., which values the company at about $1 billion.  The energy producer “could be attractive to a whole lot of
people,” Darren Engels, an analyst at FirstEnergy in Calgary,
said in a telephone interview. “An oil and gas company could
buy the reserves and production and a completely new player
could buy the pipeline assets. There could be multiple buyers.”  A representative for Petrominerales had no immediate
comment on whether the company has been approached by suitors.  Oil Assets  Petrominerales, originally  incorporated  in 1996 to explore
and develop oil assets in Colombia, has since expanded into  Peru 
as well as  Brazil , where it is seeking to develop unconventional
tight-oil assets. The company, with about 41 million barrels of
proven oil  reserves , also has stakes in Colombian pipelines.  After peaking at C$4.26 billion ($4.2 billion) on the
Toronto Stock Exchange in February 2011, the explorer’s market
value has plummeted 88 percent to C$514 million as new
discoveries failed to stem eight consecutive quarters of  falling
oil output . Discoveries typically take several years to become
productive.  The company also faces as much as about $200 million of
bond redemptions in August, when holders of some of the
company’s convertible debt can exercise a  put option  to tender
their securities early for full repayment.  ‘Bad Run’  In May, Petrominerales hired Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities Inc. to help raise cash from assets including its
stake in the Ocensa pipeline linking Colombia’s oil-rich eastern
plains with the Caribbean coast.  “It’s had a bad run of headlines and the stock’s obviously
had a bad run, to say the least,”  Rupert Stebbings , equity
markets vice president at Bancolombia SA in Medellin, Colombia,
said in a phone interview. “That’s the combination that gets
people thinking it must be for sale.”  Today, Petrominerales fell 0.5 percent to C$6.04 at 10:09
a.m. in Toronto.  Petrominerales had an  enterprise value  of $1.1 billion,
equal to 1.85 times its earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in the last 12 months. That’s the
lowest among oil and gas explorers with a market value of more
than $250 million, and compares with the median 8.2 multiple for
the group, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Even with profit  declining  this year, Petrominerales is
still trading at a cheaper multiple than 95 percent of peers
based on this year’s projected Ebitda.  “It does look cheap,” David Popowich, an analyst at
Macquarie, said in a phone interview from Calgary. The company’s
reserves of light oil, which are easier to refine than the
heavier types that are more commonly produced at Colombia’s
largest fields, are “definitely in demand,” he said.  Potential Suitors  Petrominerales’s upcoming commercial development of heavier
oil in Colombia will add value by increasing the company’s scale
and offering more predictable production growth, Matthew Portillo, an analyst at Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co., said in a
phone interview from Houston.  Suitors for Petrominerales could include Pacific Rubiales,
its larger rival in Colombia with a market value of $6.8
billion, Popowich and Portillo both said. The Bogota-based
company has already spent money in recent months to buy
companies and oil-and-gas blocks in Brazil, Colombia,  Guatemala ,
 Guyana ,  Papua New Guinea  and Peru.  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) , Colombia’s state-controlled oil company with
a market value of $87 billion, also could be interested,
according to Portillo, while FirstEnergy’s Engels said pipeline
operators such as TransCanada and Enbridge could be lured by
Petrominerales’s pipeline stakes.  Representatives for Pacific Rubiales and Bogota-based
Ecopetrol declined to comment.  In Pieces  Grady Semmens, a spokesman for Calgary-based TransCanada,
which has a market value of $32 billion, said the company “is
not currently interested” in Petrominerales.  Graham White , a
spokesman for Calgary-based Enbridge, said the $36 billion
pipeline operator is “actively looking at growth opportunities
internationally,” declining to be more specific.  Another option would be for Petrominerales to be broken up
and sold in pieces, with the oil operations going to one
acquirer and the pipeline stakes to another, such as a private-equity firm, Engels at FirstEnergy said.  While Petrominerales has assets that might appeal to a
buyer, Mason Granger, a portfolio manager at Sentry Investments
Inc., said the recent performance and debt woes may damp
interest in the company as a takeover target. The explorer, with
total debt of about $560 million as of the first quarter, is
 projected  to have negative free  cash flow  this year on declining
Ebitda, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Many Issues  “They’ve had eight consecutive quarters of shrinking
production, they’re running on a bit of a treadmill trying to
replace core production, their exploration program has had very
mixed to negative success,” Granger said in a phone interview
from Toronto. “And they have this host of other issues,
including this put option on the convertible debenture. I just
don’t know who the obvious buyer is.”  Still, Petrominerales should be valued at about $1 billion,
based on its reserves and pipeline assets, double where it’s
 trading  now, FirstEnergy’s Engels says. The interest in the
Ocensa pipeline alone is worth about $300 million, he said.  Given the depressed valuation, buyers attracted to the
Ocensa pipeline stake might opt to just buy all of
Petrominerales instead, said  Tudor Pickering ’s Portillo.  “If you were looking at acquiring the pipeline, you may
ultimately look at acquiring the whole company,” Portillo said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Willis in Bogota at 
 awillis21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  