-- China Policy Bank Cuts Bond Sale Goal by 31% Amid Crunch
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-17T09:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/china-money-rate-drops-on-speculation-cash-returned-to-banks.html
Agricultural Development Bank of
China Co.  scaled back the size of two bond offerings tomorrow by
31 percent as the worst cash crunch in at least seven years
curbs demand for the securities.  The Beijing-based policy bank  said  it will sell up to 8
billion  yuan  ($1.3 billion) of three-year notes, down from 13
billion yuan previously, according to a statement on ChinaBond,
the nation’s biggest debt clearing house today. An issue of
five-year debt was reduced to 10 billion yuan from 13 billion
yuan. The lender has options for each tenor that would allow the
original issuance targets to be met, the statement said.  The seven-day repurchase  rate , a gauge of interbank funding
availability, has averaged 6.03 percent in June, the most since
the National Interbank Funding Center began compiling a weighted
average in 2006. China’s  Finance Ministry  sold 9.53 billion yuan
of 273-day bills on June 14, less than its 15 billion yuan
target, and Agricultural Development Bank of  China  on June 6
raised 11.51 billion yuan in a sale of six-month bills, compared
with its 20 billion yuan goal.  “The market is expecting the tight liquidity may last till
early July,” said Song Qiuhong, a bond analyst at Foshan Shunde
Rural Commercial Bank Co. in Foshan, a city in the southern
province of Guangdong.  Agricultural Development Bank said in the statement the
reduction in the maximum size of initial rounds was because of
the “recent large fluctuations in bond market liquidity.”
Export-Import Bank of China cited a similar reason last week
when it halved sale targets for a June 14 auction of five- and
10-year bonds to 10 billion yuan for each tenor.  Capital Flows  Chinese finance companies are calling for the central bank
to resume capital injections as slowing growth in the world’s
biggest economy and speculation the  Federal Reserve  will rein in
monetary stimulus curbs global demand for the nation’s assets.
 Yuan positions  at local financial institutions accumulated from
sales of foreign exchange, an indication of capital flows into
China, rose 66.86 billion yuan in May, the central bank reported
June 14. That was the smallest gain since November.  “The cash strain in China’s interbank market is caused by
a sudden increase in capital outflows,” Xu Gao, chief economist
at Everbright Securities Co. in Beijing, said last week. “The
People’s Bank of China is expected to inject funds into the
market in the coming weeks.”  The central bank gauged demand for sales of 28-day
 repurchase agreements , seven- and 14-day reverse-repurchase
contracts and 91-day bills this week, according to a trader
required to bid at the auctions.  Money Rates  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 6.89 percent as of 4:30 p.m. in  Shanghai ,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. The one-day repo slid 214 basis points
to 4.88 percent and earlier touched 4.19 percent, the lowest
since June 4, on speculation some reserves were refunded by the
central bank.  Chinese banks meet reserve-requirement ratios by parking
more funds with the People’s Bank of China on the 5th, 15th and
25th of each month if their deposit holdings expand, while they
get refunds if savings decline.  “Banks’ deposits have probably declined so some cash may
have been returned from the central bank,” said Foshan Shunde
Rural Commercial Bank’s Song. “There is a temporary improvement
in  money supply .”  Rate Swaps  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, climbed one
basis point to 3.79 percent, after falling as much as four basis
points earlier today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It touched 3.85 percent on June 14, the highest level since
September 2011.  One-year swap rates fell earlier today probably because of
the “expectations of liquidity addition by the PBOC tomorrow or
on Thursday via reverse repos,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong
Kong-based strategist at Credit Agricole CIB.  The yield on the 3.09 percent government bond due May 2018
dropped one basis point to 3.28 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center.  -- Judy Chen . Editors:  James Regan , Andrew Janes  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 