-- Traxis Sees Yuan Weakening as PBOC Credit Easing Policy Ebbs
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-06-17T21:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/china-record-yuan-fixing-aims-to-tighten-credit-bisat-says-1-.html
The yuan will start to weaken after
Chinese policy makers boosted the official  exchange rate  to a
record high, as measures to slow credit growth ease, said  Amer Bisat , a  money manager  at hedge fund Traxis Partners LP.  “We are not far away from the point where they can take
their foot off the brake,” said Bisat, a former International
Monetary Fund economist who joined Traxis, the $1.2 billion
hedge fund started by  Barton Biggs , in 2007.  The central bank increased the currency’s  reference rate 
0.01 percent to an unprecedented 6.1598 per dollar yesterday, as
part of government efforts to slow lending that expanded a
record 36 percent in March, according to Bisat. The yuan, which
is allowed to trade a maximum 1 percent on either side of the
fixing, rose the most in three weeks, adding 0.09 percent to
6.125 per dollar, according to China Foreign Exchange Trade
System prices. The currency is up 1.7 percent this year, the
most among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  A measure of interbank  funding costs  increased to the
highest since 2006 this month on speculation that Chinese
authorities are moving to rein in credit to avoid bad loans.
 Total lending  rose 2.5 trillion  yuan  ($408 billion) in March,
generating concern some of the loans may turn sour as banks
loosen standards.  ‘Tightening Cycle’  “We are in a moderately tightening cycle,” said Bisat,
“The strengthening of the fixing is part of that story.”  Three-month non-deliverable yuan forwards were at 6.1890 at
5 p.m. in  New York .  The seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of interbank funding
availability, has averaged 6.03 percent in June, the highest
since the National Interbank Funding Center began compiling a
weighted average in 2006.  Aggregate financing totaled 1.19 trillion yuan in May, the
lowest in three months, falling short of a median forecast of
1.6 trillion yuan in a Bloomberg survey of nine economists.  Outlook Cut  Moody’s Investors Service lowered its outlook for  China ’s
sovereign credit rating in April to stable from positive, citing
a lack of reforms in reducing risks from local-government debt
and credit expansion.  Financial conditions are tightening when growth is already
slowing. China’s industrial output growth eased to 9.2 percent
from a year earlier in May, less than the 9.4 percent forecast
in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Exports (CNFREXPY)  rose the least in
10 months and factory-gate prices fell for a 15th month,
official figures released this month show.  With economic expansion tapering off, the yuan may weaken
from here, Bisat said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  