-- China Oil Contraction Sinks Industry’s Biggest Tankers: Freight
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-06-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/china-oil-contraction-sinks-industry-s-biggest-tankers-freight.html
China’s oil imports are contracting
for the first time since 2009, reducing the biggest source of
demand for crude tankers at a time when U.S. purchases are
slowing and owners face the worst capacity  glut  in three
decades.  The world’s second-biggest economy bought 2.1 percent less
crude in the first five months, compared with an 11 percent
expansion in the same period in 2012, customs data show. Tanker
owners are already losing money and freight swaps indicate rates
won’t be profitable before 2015. Shares of  Frontline Ltd. (FRO) , the
shipping company led by billionaire  John Fredriksen , will
retreat 38 percent in the next 12 months, according to the
average of 14 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The  World Bank  cut its forecast for the global economy on
June 12, citing weaker growth in China, which accounts for about
15 percent of demand for seaborne crude cargoes. Shipments to
the U.S., the second-largest importer, will drop 10 percent this
year as domestic output expands, shipbroker Clarkson Plc
estimates. The glut of very large crude carriers, each hauling 2
million barrels, is the biggest since 1985, according to
Fearnley Consultants A/S, an Oslo-based research company.  “The crazy levels of Chinese import volumes we saw two to
three years ago aren’t coming back,” said Ole Stenhagen, an
analyst at SEB Enskilda in Oslo whose recommendations on
shipping equities returned 30 percent in the past three years.
“We need stronger demand growth than we’re getting now, and we
need to see more ships taken out of the fleet.”  Football Fields  Frontline’s net loss will widen to $123.9 million this year
from $95.4 million in 2012, according to the mean of 19 analyst
estimates. Shares of the Hamilton, Bermuda-based ship  owner  fell
25 percent to 13.8 kroner this year in Oslo trading and will
reach 8.56 kroner in 12 months, the forecasts show.  The company said May 30 it may need to raise cash to repay
$225 million of convertible bonds due in April 2015 if oil-shipping markets don’t recover by then. The notes, which may be
converted into equity until their due date, trade at 47.45 cents
on the dollar, Exane Paris prices on Bloomberg show.  VLCCs, each the length of three football fields, earned
$5,813 a day this year, the least in Clarkson data that begins
in 1997. Frontline says it needs $25,500 to break even. Rates
won’t exceed $14,200 before the end of 2015, according to data
from the Marex Spectron Group, a freight-swaps broker in  London .  The tanker fleet expanded 26 percent since the end of 2007
as trade in seaborne oil retreated 3.5 percent. Overseas
Shipholding Group Inc., the largest U.S. owner of VLCCs, and New
York-based General Maritime Corp. sought  Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection  in the past two years.  Energy Agency  The VLCC fleet has about 20 percent too much capacity,
estimates Sverre Bjorn Svenning, an analyst at Fearnley. The
glut was last bigger in 1985, and that led to idling and
scrapping across the industry, he said.  China’s crude imports are dropping because of weaker demand
for gasoil from manufacturers, according to Matt Parry, an
analyst at the  International Energy Agency . A purchasing
managers’ index for China published by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics fell to 49.2 in May, the lowest since
September. Gasoil consumption fell 0.5 percent in the first four
months, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in a June 5 report.  The Chinese economy will expand 7.7 percent this year, the
World Bank said June 12, cutting its previous forecast of 8.4
percent. The Washington-based group reduced its estimate for the
global economy to 2.2 percent from 2.4 percent.  Largest Refineries  Declining oil shipments to China were partly caused by
buyers reducing inventories, said  Harry Tchilinguirian , an
analyst at BNP Paribas SA in London. Purchases may rebound in
the second half of the year, he said.  Imports into China reached 23.95 million metric tons in
May, customs data show. While that was 3.8 percent more than in
April, volumes were still 6 percent lower than a year earlier.
The nation’s largest refineries operated at an average 84.2
percent of capacity on May 30, from 81.5 percent a year earlier,
according to industry website Oilchem.net.  China is expanding its emergency crude stockpiles and that
will boost demand for imports, data from the Paris-based IEA
show. The nation has built and filled  storage tanks  holding 161
million barrels of oil, according to the agency’s estimates.
That will reach 500 million barrels by the end of 2020, or
enough to fill about 250 supertankers, the IEA says.  Any rebound in cargoes probably won’t be enough to halt the
slump. Frontline’s Fredriksen said June 6 he expected no
recovery in crude-tanker markets for at least two more years.  Swaps Traders  The billionaire split Frontline in two in December 2011 to
withstand the slump in tanker rates. The new company,  Frontline
2012 Ltd. (FRNT) , is amassing a fleet of fuel-efficient vessels that
will carry cargoes including liquefied petroleum gas and  iron
ore  as well as oil.  VLCC rates plunged in the past year and owners were losing
$2,914 a day on average in mid-February, the latest data from
Clarkson show. Swaps traders are betting that average monthly
earnings on the Saudi Arabia-to-Japan  route , the industry’s
benchmark, won’t exceed $11,000 in the second half of this year.  Slumping rates and capacity gluts extend across most of the
merchant fleet. The ClarkSea Index, a measure of industrywide
earnings from London-based Clarkson, averaged $8,684 a day in
the first quarter, the lowest since 1992.  Seaborne Trade  Fewer oil sales to China are being compounded by slowing
demand around the world. U.S. imports last year were 16 percent
below their peak in 2006, according to London-based  BP Plc. (BP/) 
Domestic production rose at the fastest pace since at least 1965
as horizontal drilling and so-called fracking unlocked supplies
trapped in shale formations. Shipments to the U.S. represent
about 14 percent of the seaborne market, Clarkson estimates.  The European Union’s 27 member states take a combined 23
percent of global seaborne crude trade. The 17-nation euro
region contracted every quarter in 2012 and won’t expand again
until the final three months of this year, according to the
median of 29 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  VLCC owners will  scrap  about 2.1 million deadweight tons of
capacity this year, from 2.7 million tons last year and 3.3
million tons in 2011, Clarkson estimates. About 2 percent of the
fleet is 20 years old or more, the age at which ships would
normally be considered for demolition.  “It’s  China  that’s the growth driver for this market,”
said Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an analyst at Arctic Securities ASA
in Oslo whose recommendations on the shares of shipping
companies returned 20 percent in the past year. “Nowhere else
in  Asia  will balance out this contraction in Chinese demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  