-- China Smog Measures Seen as Most Aggressive Yet by Deutsche Bank
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-17T04:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/china-smog-measures-seen-as-most-aggressive-yet-by-deutsche-bank.html
A Chinese government plan to fight
air pollution announced last week marks the country’s “most
aggressive” push to address smog to date, according to Deutsche
Bank AG.  The 10 measures, which include stricter controls on coal-burning emissions and road traffic, will push up the cost of
burning the fuel, push energy consumers to use cleaner energy
sources and result in more public-transport use,  Ma Jun ,
Deutsche Bank’s chief economist for  Greater China  in  Hong Kong ,
wrote in a note today.  “It is the most aggressive policy effort to address air
quality issues in  China ’s history,” Ma said. “We believe these
measures represent the beginning, rather than the full package,
of China’s anti-air pollution campaign.”  The measures underscore the urgency with which China’s
leaders will confront pollution levels that averaged “good” on
one of 31 days in Beijing last month, according to a U.S.
Embassy air-quality monitor. Premier  Li Keqiang , speaking to
reporters in March, said pollution gave him a “heavy heart”
and promised more vigorous efforts to fight it.  China’s State Council adopted the 10-point plan to tackle
pollution on June 14. The efforts include increasing levies on
the discharge of pollutants, controlling high energy-consuming
and polluting industries and improving control of airborne
particles measuring less than 2.5 microns in size, known as
PM2.5.  First Milestone  The package “is the first milestone in the country’s anti-pollution campaign which could last for 18 years,” Ma wrote.
“In the next few years, dozens of more specific policy measures
will be needed.” Those may involve limits on coal consumption
for key regions and increased subsidies for shale gas, wind and
solar, he said.  The new measures reflect government efforts to move forward
on President  Xi Jinping ’s pledge that China won’t sacrifice the
environment for economic growth, the official Xinhua News Agency
said June 15. Pollution is now the main cause of social unrest
in China, according to Chen Jiping, a former leading member of
the Communist Party’s Committee of Political and Legislative
Affairs.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  