-- China Emission Trading Experiment Unlikely to Ease Cities’ Smog
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2013-06-17T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/china-emission-trading-experiment-unlikely-to-ease-cities-smog.html
China’s plan to set up markets to
trade emissions will make it second only to  Europe  in efforts to
put a price on pumping carbon into the atmosphere. For cities
choking on the nation’s smog, expect little relief.  Seven pilot carbon-trading programs are scheduled to start
this year, with the first opening today in Shenzhen, followed by
Beijing,  Shanghai , Guangdong, Tianjin, Chongqing and Hubei. They
are set to regulate 800 million to 1 billion tons of emissions
by 2015 in the world’s biggest cap-and-trade program after
Europe’s, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  China’s National Development and Reform Commission will
oversee emission exchanges in a country that the  World Bank  says
has 16 of the world’s most-polluted 20 cities. The commission is
better known for setting prices than creating open markets, said
Stuart Cerne, managing director at Hong Kong-based environmental
business consultant Enecore Carbon.  “The NDRC’s measure of success of the pilots is primarily
focused on technical aspects of setting up the system, whilst
the importance of an active trading environment has not been
given as much importance,” Cerne said by telephone. “Because
of unresolved design and regulatory issues, I don’t expect that
there will be real trading in the pilots other than annual
compliance and government influenced transactions.”  The seven pilots agreed to regulate emissions using a cap
and trade system, with companies that produce more than their
allocation buying permits from companies that emit less.
Shenzhen’s trading will take place on a purpose-built exchange.  Shanghai Clearinghouse  Shanghai’s carbon exchange plans to reduce the supply of
carbon permits when prices are low and sell more when they are
high “to maintain relatively stable levels,” NDRC Vice
Chairman  Xie Zhenhua , said in an April speech on climate
legislation. Xie is China’s lead climate negotiator.  Regulations governing transactions in Shenzhen are still
being worked on and aren’t expected to be released by the start
of trading, according to a presentation by the city.  Shenzhen, one of China’s Special Economic Zones designed to
promote market policies, will initially include 635 companies in
its cap-and-trade program, Mayor Qin Xu said in April. Those
companies discharged 31.7 million tons of  greenhouse gases  in
2010, 38 percent of the city’s total, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  A separate program to complement cap-and-trade in China was
a proposed carbon tax that would be paid by consumers at the
pump and on utility bills. With economic growth slowing to 7.7
percent in the first quarter, the carbon tax was put on hold
after opposition from businesses and local governments.  Taxing Issue  The tax won’t be introduced this year amid “obvious
opposition,”  Jia Kang , head of research at the Ministry of
Finance, said at parliament’s annual session in March.  Kang quoted an initial levy of 5  yuan  to 10 yuan (81 cents
to $1.62). Starting at that level is too low to make an impact
or even meet official targets, according to research from
 Tsinghua University  and China’s Central Compilation &
Translation Bureau. The effect may be further muted since the
government already sets prices for gasoline and electricity that
are below market rates.  The goal of the trial markets is to provide know-how to
establish a national trading platform, so getting the pilot
programs right is important for the political will to tackle
pollution in the future, said Cerne at Enecore Carbon, which has
offices in Beijing.  EU Assistance  The European Commission, the EU regulator, signed a 25
million euro ($33 million) financing agreement in September 2012
to help set up  China ’s pilot emissions program.  “This is an important step for an ever-closer cooperation
towards a robust international carbon market and low-carbon
development,” Isaac Valero-Ladron, climate spokesman for the
European Commission, said in an e-mail. “This is a huge
opportunity to modernize our economies, stimulate growth and
create jobs in new dynamic industries with innovative
technologies and clean energy.”  While China’s western provinces lag behind the east in
terms of wealth and development, emission trading has the
potential to stifle growth, said Ge Xing’an, vice president at
the  Shenzhen Emissions Exchange . Trading may find less political
support in poorer areas looking to attract investment.  “While Shenzhen and Shanghai will meet deadlines, a place
like Chongqing might lag behind,” Ge said. “While that’s not a
major problem in the pilot phase, it may become a concern for
the national plan.”  Non-Compliance  The penalties for non-compliance with the new emissions
program may be too low to pose a real threat, according to the
Center for Clean Air Policy Europe Director Tomas Wyns, who
consulted on Hubei’s carbon market design. If profits outweigh
the cost of flouting the law, companies have no incentive to
reduce pollution. Concern of official corruption is also on the
minds of regulators.  “We set up electronic systems to assign quotas to the
industries,” Wu Delin, vice secretary general for the Shenzhen
Municipal Government, said at a press conference in March.
“This can help prevent illegal behavior of officials during the
assigning of quotas.”  Beijing’s worst-recorded air pollution earlier this year
renewed pressure on the government, which aims to cut  carbon
emissions  by as much as 45 percent before 2020. China’s
emissions from energy use rose 6 percent last year to 27 percent
of the world’s total, according to statistics published June 12
by  BP Plc. (BP/)  That pace is less than 9 percent last year and is the
lowest increase since 2008.  Establishing carbon trading in China will be a herculean
task given that the country’s markets are still immature, Jeff
Huang, co-chair of the China working group at the  International
Emissions Trading Association , said in a telephone interview.  China faces “a unique challenge internationalizing and
upgrading their commodity markets overall, while at the same
time launching a new market for carbon, something you can’t see
or touch,” Huang said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Haas in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  