-- China’s Stocks Decline, Led by Property, Material Shares
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-06-17T07:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/china-s-stock-futures-rise-signaling-benchmark-indexes-may-gain.html
China’s stocks  fell for the ninth
time in 10 days, dragged down by property developers and
material producers, after Beijing tightened rules for real
estate projects to contain a rebound in home prices.  China Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest developer, slumped
3.4 percent on speculation stricter property curbs will hurt
earnings. Anhui Conch Cement Co., the largest producer of the
building material, declined to a nine-month low. Tasly
Pharmaceutical Group Co., a traditional medicine company, led
drugmakers to the biggest gain among industry groups.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped 0.3 percent to
2,156.22 at the close, with trading volumes 24 percent lower
than the 30-day average. The index fell last week after reports
showed industrial production and exports trailed estimates and
higher money-market rates stoked concern about tighter
liquidity. The CSI 300 Index dropped 0.5 percent to 2,403.84.
The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  gained 1.1 percent,
snapping 12 days of losses.  “Investors are still digesting news about bad economic
data and tight liquidity,” said Mao Sheng, an analyst for Huaxi
Securities Co. in Chengdu. “The lack of flows in the market may
persist until early July. People are avoiding companies such as
property developers because of the economic concern. We may see
occasional technical rebounds, but any gains will be
temporary.”  Beijing Curbs  The Shanghai measure has fallen 11 percent from this year’s
high on Feb. 6. The index trades at 8.9 times 12-month estimated
earnings, compared with the three-year average of 10.8,  data 
compiled by Bloomberg showed. Its 30-day  volatility  was at 15.9,
compared with this year’s average of 19.1, the data showed.  The government may release foreign investment data as early
as today, while May  housing prices  are scheduled for tomorrow.
China’s home prices rose 10.7 percent in the first quarter of
2013 from the previous three months, the biggest gain among 55
global real-estate markets, according to Knight Frank.  A gauge of property stocks in the Shanghai index declined
0.7 percent, the most among five industry groups. China Vanke
dropped 3.4 percent to 10.33  yuan . Poly Real Estate, the second-biggest developer, fell 0.9 percent to 10.97 yuan, while Gemdale
Corp. lost 1.9 percent to 6.64 yuan.  Anhui Conch paced declines for material producers, dropping
1.8 percent to 14.20 yuan. Jiangxi Copper Co., the biggest
Chinese copper producer, slid 1.8 percent to 18.93 yuan.  Tightening Outlook  Beijing will require non-residential projects and
residential developments bigger than an average 140 square
meters (1,506 square feet) to meet requirements on construction
progress before applying for presale permits, the local housing
bureau said June 14. China requires developers to obtain presale
permits from local housing authorities before they can sell
apartments under construction.  “Beijing’s new pre-sales measures imply housing policies
may become more localized,” Credit Suisse Group AG analyst
Jinsong Du wrote in a note dated yesterday. “Although this new
measure should not have near term impact on Beijing’s housing
supply, some may view it as a sign of further tightening
measures to come.”  A gauge of drugmakers in the CSI 300 rose 1.9 percent, the
most among 10 industry groups. Yunnan Baiyao Group Co. surged
5.1 percent to 88.20 yuan. Tasly climbed 2.5 percent to 41.31
yuan. Tasly is optimistic over the next few years about its
product Tasly Danshen Plus Capsule, which recorded 2 billion
yuan in sales in 2012, Fortune CLSA Securities Ltd. wrote in a
report dated today, citing meetings with company officials.  Tackle Pollution  “In China specifically, we like health-care names because
of the reforms the government is putting in place,” Catherine Yeung, director at Fidelity Investment Management Ltd., said in
a Bloomberg TV interview in  Singapore  today. “Over the weekend
the State Council came up with 10 measures with regards to
improving air quality.”  China’s cabinet adopted a 10-point plan to tackle pollution
on June 14. The efforts include increasing levies on the
discharge of pollutants, controlling high energy-consuming and
polluting industries and improving control of airborne particles
measuring less than 2.5 microns in size, known as PM2.5.  The package “is the first milestone in the country’s anti-pollution campaign which could last for 18 years,” Ma Jun,
Deutsche Bank’s chief economist for Greater China in Hong Kong,
wrote in a note.  “In the next few years, dozens of more
specific policy measures will be needed.” Those may involve
limits on coal consumption for key regions and increased
subsidies for shale gas, wind and solar, he said.  China  may introduce policies on solar power subsidies as
early as June, the China Securities Journal reported today,
citing unidentified people. Hareon Solar Technology Co. surged 2
percent to 6.71 yuan.  Bearish Options  Options traders are paying the most in two months to
protect against drops in the largest Chinese  exchange-traded
fund  in the U.S. on concern a local money-market cash crunch
will deepen a slump in Asia’s biggest economy.  The cost of three-month puts on the  iShares FTSE China 25
Index Fund (FXI)  soared to the highest since September last week,
option data compiled by Bloomberg showed. The 4.3-point premium
of puts over calls was the widest since April 17. The Bloomberg
China-US Equity Index slumped the most in four months last week,
led by a 16 percent drop in Yanzhou Coal Mining Co.  The World Bank, Morgan Stanley and UBS AG all cut 2013
gross domestic product estimates for China last week. China can
manage to see a rebound in growth if the government conducts
necessary reforms including opening up some areas to private
investors ranging from high-speed railways to water supply,  Li Daokui , a former academic adviser to the People’s Bank of China,
said at a forum in Beijing on June 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  