-- Civil Rights Rules in Court’s Sights as Term Nears Finale
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-06-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/civil-rights-rules-in-court-s-sights-as-term-nears-finale.html
A year ago it was health care. Now
the U.S.  Supreme Court  is poised to rewrite the nation’s civil
rights rules.  With cases on gay marriage, affirmative action and voting
rights still to be decided in the next two weeks, the court is
set to produce another blockbuster June. Chief Justice  John Roberts  and the court today will release the first wave of the
19 rulings they have yet to issue.  The civil rights cases give the court an almost countless
list of options, from procedural to incremental to landmark.
Each offers the justices a chance -- should they want it -- to
make a major statement about the meaning of the constitutional
guarantee of equality in a changing American society.  “The coming weeks will be a defining moment for the
Roberts court,” said  Doug Kendall , president of the Washington-based Constitutional Accountability Center, which backs gay
marriage and legal protections for minorities. “These rulings
will tell us a great deal about the court’s understanding of
equality.”  The court also will rule on two disputes of importance to
the pharmaceutical industry. In one case, the question is
whether drugmakers can be sued over patent settlements that
allegedly delay the introduction of generic competition to
popular medicines. The second case will reset the limits on
patient lawsuits over drugs that have harmful side effects.  New Limits  The affirmative action dispute is the court’s longest-pending case of this term. Arguments on Oct. 10 suggested the
Republican-appointed majority, including likely swing vote
 Anthony Kennedy , was preparing to put new limits on
universities’ use of race in choosing which students to admit.  The dispute involves the  University of Texas , which has a
unique admissions system that admits three-quarters of the
freshman class solely on the basis of high school class rank.
Because many  Texas  high schools are either heavily Hispanic or
heavily black, that system all but guarantees a significant
minority presence at the university.  The issue for the Supreme Court is whether the university
may consider race in admitting the rest of its class.  The case offers at least the prospect of a narrow ruling
that would let other institutions continue to consider race for
the sake of diversity.  The court could go further and require universities around
the country to look harder at race-neutral methods of fostering
racial diversity -- such as socio-economic affirmative action.  ‘Critical Mass’  The justices also could overrule all or part of the 2003
Supreme Court ruling that said universities may consider race in
admissions to ensure a “critical mass” of minorities on
campus.  The court is also weighing the fate of the  Voting Rights 
Act, the landmark 1965 law that opened the polls to millions of
Southern black people. The justices will rule on the law’s
requirement that all or parts of 15 states get federal
“preclearance” before making any change to their voting rules.  As with affirmative action, the court’s conservative
majority cast doubt on the preclearance requirement during
arguments in February, questioning whether it was still
necessary to protect minority voters.  The same justices were similarly skeptical four years ago,
when the court scrutinized the law and ultimately reached a
compromise ruling that spared the preclearance requirement.  The affirmative action and Voting Rights Act cases are part
of a push by activists to cut back what they see as unwarranted
legal protections for racial minorities.  ‘Color-Blind Principle’  “Both represent cases that may begin the restoration of
the original color-blind principle to our nation’s civil rights
law,” said Edward Blum, director of the Project on Fair
Representation in Alexandria, Virginia. He organized the
challenges to the Voting Rights Act and the Texas admissions
policy.  The two gay-marriage cases mark the first time the court
has considered the issue. The justices are reviewing
 California ’s Proposition 8, the 2008 ballot initiative that
banned same-sex marriage after a state court decision had
permitted it for five months. The court could limit its ruling
to California or issue a nationwide decision.  The second case tests the U.S. Defense of Marriage Act,
which defines marriage as a heterosexual institution and denies
federal benefits to legally married same-sex couples. Gay
marriage is legal in 12 states and the  District of Columbia .  Both clashes offer the justices procedural options that
would let them avoid ruling on a whether the Constitution
requires equal treatment for gay men and lesbians. In the
California case, the justices spent much of the March 26
argument debating whether the defenders of Proposition 8 had the
legal right to appeal.  The answers in all likelihood will come by the end of next
week. The court’s last scheduled day for issuing opinions is
June 24, though the justices typically add additional sessions.  Until then, there is “a great deal of anxiety,
anticipation and excitement building up,” Blum said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  