-- Clarence Thomas’s Legal Time Machine Zooms to 1789
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2013-06-17T16:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/clarence-thomas-s-legal-time-machine-zooms-to-1789.html
Don’t let the U.S. Supreme Court’s
very contemporary cases on  gene patenting  and  same-sex marriage 
fool you: At least one justice is still living in the 18th
century and doesn’t care who knows it.  Justice Clarence Thomas followed his astonishingly
consistent originalism in Alleyne v. U.S. today, joined by the
court’s four liberals -- and none of its conservatives -- in
holding that a fact that increases a defendant’s mandatory
minimum sentence must be found true by the jury, not by the
judge alone.  Just a few minutes earlier, however, it was announced that
Thomas had provided the deciding vote in Salinas v. Texas,
arguing that a defendant’s exercising the right to remain silent
can be used by the prosecutor to argue to the jury that silence
is evidence of guilt.  From a policy perspective, these two opinions, one liberal
and one conservative, make no sense. The only way to reconcile
them is to enter the mind of Justice Thomas, in which the
court’s job is to bring us back to the nation’s founding and
damn the consequences.  Thomas’s opinion on what facts must be submitted to the
jury derives from a series of opinions he has written over the
past 15 years, all of which amount to a concerted historical
attack on the way modern legislatures and judges handle criminal
punishment. In the good old days, the English common law defined
a limited set of felonies, and they all had the same punishment:
death. Like the Islamic Shariah, the Jewish Halakha and many
other early legal systems, the common law wasn’t so much
bloodthirsty as designed to operate in an environment with
little formal police enforcement. Capital punishment was
counterbalanced by a low likelihood of detection -- kind of like
harsh sentences for insider trading.  Jury Nullification  But human beings who administered these old legal systems
were capable of being humane, and they developed procedural
tricks to avoid executing everybody. In common law, the check on
extreme punishments was the jury, which could engage in what was
called “pious perjury” -- a kind of jury nullification where
the jurymen (always men) would pretend, for example, that the
value of the object stolen was less than the minimum required to
make the crime a felony punishable by death. For Thomas, the
principle that the jury is the escape hatch against harsh
punishment specified by the law has become the touchstone of
criminal justice.  Today, however, it is lawmakers who try to let the
punishment fit the crime, as Gilbert & Sullivan’s “The Mikado”
so memorably put it in the era of sentencing reform. Hence
measures such as minimum- and maximum-sentence laws. And, it
stands to reason, if sentencing is a specialized and precise
function, it should be done by a trained government official
with experience and expertise: in other words, a judge.  Thomas rejects this view -- not because he’s especially
concerned about defendants, but because he is exquisitely
sensitive to William Blackstone’s description of the jury as
“the palladium of our liberties.”  If you doubt my claim that Thomas has no special solicitude
for vulnerable defendants, look no further than his rather
extreme concurrence in the self-incrimination case, Salinas v.
Texas. Genovevo Salinas, the defendant, was brought to the
police station for photographs and questioning, supposedly to
clear him in a murder case. He answered the police’s questions
in the interview room until they asked him whether his shotgun
at home would match the shells at the scene. That shut him up.
At his trial, the prosecutor told the jury that an innocent man
wouldn’t have remained silent: He would have said “What are you
talking about? I didn’t do that. I wasn’t there.”  Looking Guilty  Wait, you say, isn’t that exactly what the prosecutor can’t
say if you really have the right to remain silent? What kind of
right is it if exercising it will be used to make you look
guilty? Which, in fact, is just what Justice Stephen Breyer and
the other liberals asked in today’s dissent.  Yet Justice Samuel Alito -- writing for a plurality that
included Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice Anthony Kennedy
-- said that because Salinas was there voluntarily and wasn’t in
custody, he had to say the magic words, “I invoke my right to
remain silent under the Fifth Amendment.” Because he didn’t,
his words could be used against him.  There is something a little impractical about this holding.
After all, we read suspects their Miranda rights because we
figure they don’t always know to invoke them. Yet for Justice
Thomas, even that apparent contradiction didn’t go far enough.  Writing a separate, decisive concurrence joined by Scalia,
Thomas took the opportunity to re-express his view that the
right not to be compelled to be a witness against yourself
doesn’t include the right for the jury not to be told that your
silence is evidence of guilt -- ever. (Never mind that the
Supreme Court has explicitly interpreted the self-incrimination
right that way since 1965.)  At the founding, Justice Thomas noted, defendants were
encouraged to make unsworn statements defending themselves, and
their failure to do so could be mentioned at trial. Of course,
he didn’t mention that at the time, defendants were also
generally prohibited from testifying on their own behalf, lest
they endanger their souls by perjury.  If criminal justice, or the rest of our constitutional
system, were actually turned back 225 years or so, the results
would be so unfamiliar as to seem bizarrely un-American.
Originalism is valuable because it reminds us that there are
certain core values that we as a people have preserved
throughout our history -- not because we should stop using
zippers and go back to a world of buttons.  That said, I have to admit that there is something
inspiring about a justice who takes a principle to its logical
end out of a sincerely held commitment, even if it makes him
look ridiculous. So long as there aren’t four others who agree
with him consistently.  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 