-- Cloud Profit Lags Older Software, Box CEO Levie Says
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-06-17T20:20:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/cloud-profit-lags-older-software-box-ceo-levie-says.html
Cloud software companies can’t
expect as much profit as traditional vendors because customers
increasingly have more choices, Box Inc. Chief Executive Officer
Aaron Levie said today.  Levie, speaking on a cloud-computing discussion panel at
the Bloomberg Next Big Thing Summit in Half Moon Bay,
 California , said that  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  had fewer competitors and could control pricing.
Emerging companies like Box don’t have the same luxury, he said.  “I don’t know that we should expect the same kind of
economics as you saw from Oracle in its heyday and IBM in its
heyday,” Levie said. “The upside remains the same. The unit
economics and how profitable you’re going to be is going to be a
little different.”  Levie was joined on stage by  Rackspace Hosting Inc. (RAX)  CEO
Lanham Napier, YouSendIt Inc. CEO  Brad Garlinghouse  and  Akamai
Technologies Inc. (AKAM)  CEO Tom Leighton. Their companies are all
delivering software and services via the Web, rather than in
packages and on dedicated servers.  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  pioneered
the software-as-a-service model with its customer-management
software that competes with Oracle.  Box, based in Los Altos, California, provides software for
Web storage and document collaboration. The company is
increasingly competing with Campbell, California-based
YouSendIt, whose software lets users send and collaborate on
files.  Vendor Advantages  While the cloud-software market is in its early stages, one
advantage for vendors is they shouldn’t have to invest as
heavily in their sales team because more communication and
transactions can take place electronically. Still, startups have
to offer unique services “to make end users smarter,” said
YouSendIt’s Garlinghouse.  Rackspace, based in  San Antonio , and Akamai, in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , are publicly traded and more established than Box
and YouSendIt. Rackspace competes with Amazon.com Inc., the
online retailer that also offers cloud storage and servers.
While Amazon offers cheaper services, Rackspace is focused on
providing “fanatical support” for customers that need more
help, Napier said.  “We’re trying to help businesses thrive,” Napier said.
His company is assisting “customers that want help around
workloads,” he said.  Stock Slide  Lower prices from Amazon have contributed to a stock slide
at Rackspace. The company has lost more than half its market
value this year and last month provided a revenue forecast for
the current quarter that trailed analysts’ estimates.  Akamai, which provides technology that helps speed the
delivery of Web content, has rallied in the past year, gaining
38 percent through today. For Akamai and other emerging cloud
companies, there are plenty of opportunities to make money as
older businesses shift to the Web and mobile, said Leighton.  “Everything is moving to mobile devices,” Leighton said.
“There are major challenges to be solved and there’s lot of
profit there for that.”  Akamai rose less than 1 percent to $42.94 at the close in
New York. Rackspace rose 2.8 percent to $35.60.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  