-- Co-Op Bank to Trade Shares in London as It Raises Capital
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y ,   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-06-17T15:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/co-op-bank-to-raise-1-5-billion-pounds-to-improve-capital-base.html
The Co-Operative Bank Plc, the U.K.
lender that abandoned a bid to buy branches from  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY) , will swap some debt for equity and trade on the
London Stock Exchange to plug a capital hole.  Co-Op Bank plans to raise 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion)
in capital by asking existing bondholders to exchange
subordinated debt for new equity and senior debt, with 500
million pounds more raised through the sale of insurance assets,
the Manchester, England-based company said in a statement today.  “Investors in the bank’s subordinated capital securities
are also being asked to support the bank at this crucial time by
participating in a wider exchange offer,” said Euan Sutherland,
chief executive officer of the bank’s parent entity, Co-Operative Group. “This solution, under which they will own a
significant minority stake in the bank, will then allow them to
share in the upside of the transformation of the bank.”  The bank, which traces its roots to Britain’s 19th-century
industrial north and has 4.7 million customers, last month was
cut six steps to junk by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited
a capital shortfall. Co-Operative Bank’s core Tier 1 capital
ratio under the latest round of Basel rules was 6.7 percent in
January, less than the 7 percent target set by U.K. regulators,
Moody’s said.  Capital Ratio  The bank’s pro-forma fully loaded common equity Tier 1
capital ratio is expected to be above 9 percent by the end of
2013, with the exchange offer taking place in October, Co-Op
said.  Before the offer, the Co-Op Group’s stake in the bank was
wiped out, Richard Pennycook, the lender’s finance director,
said at a press conference in London today. “Everything is
new,” he said.  The lender had 1.57 billion pounds of core Tier 1 capital,
after regulatory deductions, for 2012, according to its  website .  Capital has been eroded by bad consumer and commercial real
estate loans stemming from the bank’s purchase of Britannia
Building Society in 2009. Impairments more than quadrupled to
468.7 million pounds in 2012, the company reported in March. The
bank posted a pretax loss of 673.7 million pounds last year,
compared with a profit of 54.2 million pounds a year earlier.  Job Cuts?  While the lender will “improve the efficiency” of its
operations, it’s too early to say whether that would mean job
losses, Sutherland said at the press conference.  The bank needs bondholders to agree to commit 1.05 billion
pounds of bonds to the deal out of 1.3 billion pounds of debt
outstanding, said David Soanes, global head of financial
institutions at UBS AG, at the press conference, who is advising
the bank.  The bank has 7,000 bond investors with 25,000 pounds of
holdings or less, Soanes said. The bank will probably trade at
least 25 percent of its shares, he said, although the details
haven’t been finalized.  “The balance of risk between shareholders and bondholders
is being changed dramatically,” said  Simon Adamson , an analyst
at CreditSights Inc. “The question is how to persuade
bondholders to take part. They’re going to need quite a high
acceptance rate. The question is, what is the incentive?”  The Co-Operative Group, whose assets range from
supermarkets to funeral homes, has been replacing senior
management amid an abandoned bid for 632 branches owned by
Lloyds following concerns that its bank unit may not have
sufficient capital to meet regulatory requests. The group last
month named former HSBC Holdings Plc banker Niall Booker as the
lender’s CEO after Barry Tootell quit.  Customer Ownership  Booker said today the firm had considered many ways of
raising the money while also retaining control of the bank,
including having voting and non-voting shares.  The customer-ownership or “mutuality aspect is protected
by the majority ownership,” Booker said. The listing doesn’t
indicate an intention to sell the lender, Sutherland said.  The company’s 60 million pounds of 9.25 percent undated
preference shares were quoted at 65 pence on the pound on the
 London  Stock Exchange. The bank said it won’t pay interest on
the preference shares due on July 31 unless regulators give it
permission.  The lender said that “until further notice” it doesn’t
intend to pay coupons that it can elect to skip on other, more
senior, securities unless supervisors give it permission. Its
200 million pounds of 5.555 percent undated junior subordinated
bonds were quoted at 45.5 pence on the pound, according to
Bloomberg Composite prices. Its 275 million pounds of 9.25
percent subordinated notes maturing in April 2021 were at 75
pence on the pound, Bloomberg prices show.  “The Prudential Regulation Authority’s current assessment
is the Co-operative Bank needs to generate an additional 1.5
billion pounds in common equity Tier 1 capital in order to
absorb potential losses over coming years,” the PRA and Bank of
England said in a joint statement today. “We will hold the Co-Operative to the delivery of its plans.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  