-- Copper Gains as Aluminum Rises First Time in Eight Days
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-06-17T09:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/copper-gains-as-aluminum-rises-first-time-in-eight-days.html
Copper rose for a second day in
 London  as investors awaited a meeting of Federal Reserve policy
makers that may give clues to whether the central bank will vary
the pace of asset purchases.  The Federal Open Market Committee meets June 18-19. The Fed
will reduce monthly debt-buying aimed at stimulating the U.S.
economy, the world’s biggest, to $65 billion from $85 billion in
October, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Retail sales rose more than forecast and factory output
rebounded from two months of declines, reports showed last week.  “From a macro perspective, the market focus will be on the
upcoming FOMC meeting, where participants will seek clarity on
the aggressive monetary easing stance taken in the U.S.,”
George Adcock, an analyst at Marex Spectron Group in London,
said by e-mail today.  Copper for delivery in three months gained 0.4 percent to
$7,121 a metric ton by 9:48 a.m. on the London Metal Exchange.
Copper for delivery in July rose 0.4 percent to $3.213 a pound
on the Comex in New York.  “We stand by our assertion that a reduction in QE is
highly unlikely for the foreseeable future,” Adcock said,
referring to Fed debt purchases, known as quantitative easing.
“However, the mere discussion of it can severely dent investor
sentiment and psychology.”  Money managers almost tripled their net-short position, or
wagers on falling copper prices, to 18,722 Comex futures and
options contracts as of June 11 from 6,626 a week earlier,
according to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  “The market remains heavily short and the potential for a
further short-covering rally remains elevated,” Adcock said.  Aluminum for delivery in three months fell 0.2 percent to
$1,847.25 a ton in London, heading for an eighth drop in a row.
Two buyers in  Japan , Asia’s biggest importer of the lightweight
metal, agreed to keep premiums paid to producers steady in the
third quarter at $249 a ton over the price of aluminum for
immediate delivery on the LME.  Nickel, tin and zinc slid in London. Lead gained.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  