-- Cotton Drops for First Time in Four Sessions as Rain Aids Crops
-- B y   M a r l e y   D e l D u c h e t t o
-- 2013-06-17T16:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/cotton-drops-for-first-time-in-four-sessions-as-rain-aids-crops.html
Cotton futures fell for the first
time in four sessions on speculation that wet weather in  India 
and  Texas  will ease a decline in global production.  India, the world’s second-largest producer, received
monsoon rains about a month earlier than normal and showers have
been 48 percent above a 50-year average since they arrived on
June 1, according to the  India Meteorological Department . West
Texas, the biggest growing region in the U.S., got as much as
0.5 inch (1.3 centimeters) of rain over the weekend and as much
as 1.5 inches will fall in the next 48 hours, Donald Keeney, a
meteorologist at Gaithersburg, Maryland-based MDA Information
Systems Inc., said in an interview.  “There were some scattered showers in West Texas, and
there are more forecast for this week,”  John Flanagan ,
president of Flanagan Trading Corp. in Fuquay-Varina,  North
Carolina , said in a telephone interview. “That’s going to weigh
on the December contracts, as well as the good monsoons in
India.”  Cotton for December delivery fell 0.3 percent to 89.19
cents a pound at 12:17 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.
Prices rallied 5 percent in the previous three sessions, after
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  cut its forecast for output
in domestic output.  The U.S. is the world’s largest exporter. In the 12 months
starting Aug. 1, farmers may harvest 13.5 million bales, down
from 14 million projected last month, the USDA said on June 12.
Domestic output will drop 22 percent after a drought hurt crops.
The agency also boosted its export estimate for the current
season and trimmed its projection for stockpiles. A bale weighs
480 pounds, or 218 kilograms.  In India, monsoon accounts for about 70 percent of total
annual rainfall, and more than 235 million farmers depend on the
seasonal deluge for crop irrigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marley DelDuchetto in Chicago at 
 mdelduchett2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  