-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall Before Fed Meets; Chevron Offers Bonds
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-06-17T21:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-before-fed-meets-chevron-plans-bonds.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk fell as stocks advanced before this week’s  Federal Reserve 
policy meeting. Chevron Corp. is offering $6 billion of debt in
four parts.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
1.9 basis points to a mid-price of 82.2 basis points at 4:42
p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
index has dropped from a more than two-month high of 87.5 on
June 12.  Traders are trying to determine when the Fed will scale
back $85 billion of monthly bond purchases, known as
quantitative easing, that have suppressed benchmark yields and
pushed investors into riskier assets such as corporate bonds.
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to speak after the
central bank’s decision on June 19.  The 10-year Treasury note’s yield has  fallen  to 2.18
percent from a 14-month high of 2.23 percent on June 12.  “The market is generally feeling better about rates
stabilizing a bit and that  Ben Bernanke  will not pare back QE,”
Scott Carmack, co-portfolio manager at Leader Capital Corp. in
 Portland , Oregon, said in a telephone interview.  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Chevron Issue  Chevron (CVX) , the second-largest U.S. oil company by market
value, may sell $750 million of three-year notes to yield 40
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, $2 billion
of five-year securities at a relative yield of 65 basis points,
$1 billion of seven-year debt at a 85 basis-point spread and
$2.25 billion of 10-year bonds at 100, according to a person
with knowledge of the transaction, who asked not to be
identified because terms aren’t set. Proceeds will be used to
refinance commercial paper.  The company canceled plans to offer floating-rate notes due
in 2016 and 2018.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index fell 11.1 basis points to 402.4 basis points,
Bloomberg data show.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt fell 4.3 basis points to 551.7 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at S&P.
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index gained 0.8 percent.  “Credit is tracking the equity market in general,”  Mirko Mikelic , senior portfolio manager at Fifth Third Asset
Management in  Grand Rapids , Michigan, said in a telephone
interview. “I think everybody agrees the Fed will be on hold.
It’s more the timing when the Fed takes the foot off the
pedal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in New York at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  