-- Oil Slips on Stimulus Outlook as WTI-Brent Gap Shrinks
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-06-17T20:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/crude-advances-to-nine-month-high-as-manufacturing-rises.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
slipped on speculation that the  Federal Reserve  may curb its
stimulus policy after an index showed manufacturers in the New
York area felt the most optimistic since March. WTI’s discount
to Brent oil shrank to the narrowest level since 2011.  Oil fell 8 cents before Fed policy makers start a two-day
meeting tomorrow. The central bank has expanded its balance
sheet with $85 billion of asset purchases a month to boost
growth. The New York Fed’s general economic  gauge  rose to 7.8
this month, the most since March. Brent slid more than WTI as
Iran’s president-elect pledged to ease his country’s isolation.  “The data had an inverse effect on oil and put fears in
the market,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the
Price Futures Group in  Chicago . “When we got the strong
economic data, everybody said, ‘Wait a second, maybe the Fed is
going to be more aggressive in tapering stimulus.’”  WTI for July delivery settled at $97.77 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , little changed from the four-month
high of $97.85 in the previous session. The volume of all
futures traded was 7 percent above the 100-day average for the
time of day at 4:30 p.m.  Brent for August settlement fell 46 cents, or 0.4 percent,
to end the session at $105.47 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe. Volume was 41 percent below the 100-day average
for the time of day.  Brent was $7.44 a barrel more expensive than WTI for August
delivery, the narrowest differential based on settlement prices
since Jan. 20, 2011.  Fed Concern  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said May 22 that U.S. policy
makers “could” scale back stimulus efforts if the employment
outlook shows “sustainable improvement.”  Bernanke is scheduled to speak after the central bank’s
decision on June 19. Investors have been watching economic data
to determine whether growth is strong enough to prompt the bank
to scale back stimulus measures.  Prices also fell as Iranian President-elect Hassan Rohani
made overtures to the country’s neighbors today at his first
news conference since his weekend victory, a move which may help
to defuse decades of tension with Gulf Arab states.  President  Barack Obama  was said to authorize arming Syrian
rebels groups as the administration said it had confirmed the
use of chemical weapons by President Bashar al-Assad’s forces
during the civil war.  Mideast Conflicts  Syria borders Iraq and is near Iran, countries that
together hold almost a fifth of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries’s output capacity, according to Bloomberg
estimates. Syria itself produced just 164,000 barrels a day of
the 28.3 million pumped in the  Middle East  last year, according
to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  “It was the Syrian news that got us above $97 on Friday
and there was no additional bullish news over the weekend to
push the market higher,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of
market research at Tradition Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut .  In  Turkey , thousands of workers went on strike and marched
in Istanbul and Ankara in support of protesters, as political
turmoil entered its third week after a police crackdown.  “Syria and Turkey are the main trouble spots right now,”
said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt,
in an e-mail. “ Oil prices  are driven by supply risks at the
moment.”  Economic Data  The New York manufacturing index increased from minus 1.4
in May, the Fed data showed. Readings greater than zero signal
expansion in New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern
Connecticut. The median projection in a Bloomberg survey of 51
economists called for a reading of zero.  “The data continued to be positive,” said Jason Schenker,
president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based
energy consultant. “The Fed is going to be really important for
the market.”  U.S. retail sales gained the most in three months in May,
the Commerce Department said June 13. Jobless claims slid in the
seven days to June 8, the Labor Department reported last week.  “The general consensus is that the economy is getting
better,” said  Chris Barber , a senior analyst at Energy Security
Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,  Massachusetts . “The positive signs
have outweighed the negative.”  The U.S., the world’s biggest oil-consuming country, used
18.6 million barrels a day of oil last year, or about one-fifth
of the world’s total demand, according to BP Plc’s Statistical
Review of World Energy.  U.S. Consumption  Gasoline demand  averaged  8.8 million barrels a day in the
four weeks ended June 7, the most since Sept. 21, the Energy
Information Administration, the Energy Department’s statistical
arm, said last week.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
August was 19 percent, unchanged from June 14, data compiled by
Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 564,601
contracts as of 4:30 p.m. It totaled 752,559 contracts on June
14, 25 percent higher than the three-month average. Open
interest was a record 1.86 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  