-- Cuomo’s Abortion Bill Dies in N.Y. Senate as Coalition Balks
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-06-17T17:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/cuomo-s-abortion-bill-dies-in-n-y-senate-as-coalition-balks.html
Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s bill
guaranteeing abortion rights that would align  New York  and U.S.
law was killed in the senate after a group of breakaway
Democrats co-leading the chamber dropped it.  The Independent Democratic Conference, a group of four
Democrats who run the senate with Republicans, introduced
nine of Cuomo’s 10 Women’s Equality Agenda measures yesterday,
including enhanced penalties for human traffickers and
increased legal damages for women who aren’t paid equally.
They left out the governor’s abortion plank.  The measure would have decriminalized abortions after 24
weeks when a woman’s health -- not just her life -- were at
risk. Cuomo, a 55-year-old Democrat and potential presidential
candidate in 2016, said it would protect women if the U.S.
Supreme Court rolls back its 1973 Roe v. Wade decision
recognizing the right.  “I think it’s a mistake for the IDC, who are theoretically
Democrats,” Cuomo said today in a radio interview. “This is
going to be an electoral decision, and it’s going to be in the
re-election campaigns of these senators.”  Jeff Klein, the Bronx Democrat who leads the breakaway
Democrats, said his group supports abortion rights but didn’t
want to allow a vote on a bill that would fail.  Not There  “This legislative process is the art of negotiation,”
Klein said today in an e-mailed statement. “The IDC would like
nothing more than to bring this provision to the floor, but the
votes just are not there.”  The other measures will come up for a vote as soon as June
19, a day before the legislative session in  Albany  ends. Cuomo
has pitched a vote on the bill as a way for residents to know
where their elected officials stand on abortion.  Republicans in states from  North Dakota  to  South Carolina 
have pushed a record number of laws to restrict when and how
women can terminate pregnancies. Cuomo wanted to take New York
in the opposite direction.  Republicans oppose Cuomo’s move. In November, Democrats
won a senate majority for the first time since 2008, yet the
Independent Democratic Conference broke away to ally with
Republicans, letting that party continue to hold sway. Under
legislative rules, the IDC and Republicans must agree on which
bills come up for a vote.  More than half, or 51 percent, of Republicans favored
abortion rights in a March poll of registered voters by Siena
College in Loudonville, New York. Democrats used the issue to
attack Republicans in the November election, helping them retake
a senate majority even as they were outspent about 4 to 1,
according to Bruce Gyory, who teaches politics at the  State
University of New York  at Albany.  Kelly Cummings, a spokeswoman for Dean Skelos, the Long
Island Republican who co-leads the senate, has called the
abortion measure an “unnecessary and purely political
maneuver.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  