-- Danske Bank Told to Boost Risk-Weighted Assets by $18 Bln
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-06-18T19:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/danske-told-by-fsa-to-add-18-billion-to-risk-weighted-assets.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , Denmark’s biggest
lender, was told by the country’s financial watchdog it had
underestimated risky assets as global regulators increase
scrutiny of banks’ internal models.  Danske fell as much as 8 percent in Copenhagen trading
after the Financial Supervisory Authority ordered the bank to
adjust its models in a step that will force it to add about 100
billion kroner ($18 billion), or 13 percent, to risk-weighted
assets “over time,” according to a statement late yesterday.  The regulator said it first informed the bank of the need
to boost risk weightings last year and the company didn’t
respond. Danske said it may appeal the decision, which relates
in part to loss assessments on corporate loans, and left its
full-year outlook and financial targets for 2015 intact. The
FSA’s action comes as the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
reviews the way lenders model risk and assign capital.  The FSA’s decision “will reduce our solvency level from a
very high level but it may not be that we’ll need to go back to
the very high level we’re coming from,” Henrik Ramlau-Hansen,
Danske’s chief financial officer, said in an interview. “We’ve
made individual evaluations on the likelihood of these corporate
clients missing payments and how much we would lose. That’s why
we’re considering appealing the FSA’s ruling.”  The order will make lending to Danish businesses more
costly, said Ramlau-Hansen. Denmark’s small and medium-sized
enterprises employ about two-thirds of the workforce and the
government is struggling to find ways to increase the flow of
credit to businesses to help restore economic growth.  Reduce Solvency  Danske Bank, based in Copenhagen, will need to hold an
additional 15 billion kroner in equity by 2022 to sustain its
capital ratio following the FSA’s new risk-weight requirement,
Ramlau-Hansen said. He said the bank won’t need to sell shares
to reach that target.  The bank closed down 6.1 percent at 104.90 kroner in
Copenhagen, trimming the gain this year to 9.7 percent.  Nordea Markets, a unit of  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , cut its
recommendation on Danske shares, advising clients to hold the
stock instead of buying it. Nordea targets a share price of 115
kroner, compared with 130 kroner previously, it said. The FSA’s
ruling “means that Danske will need to build its buffers
further, which can result in a reduced dividend potential in the
coming years,” Nordea said in a note to clients.  Global regulators are forcing financial institutions to
hold more capital to avoid a repeat of the taxpayer-funded
bailouts of the financial crisis. Stefan Ingves, who heads
 Sweden ’s central bank and the Basel committee, told reporters
last week that regulators are reviewing the risk-weights banks
apply after finding variations across markets. Such weightings
determine how much capital lenders must set aside to cover the
risk of losses on those assets.  ‘Not Adequate’  The Basel committee brings together regulators from 27
nations, including the U.K., U.S. and  China , to set capital
rules for banks. The latest round, known as Basel III, states
that banks should have core reserves equivalent to 7 percent of
their RWAs, with the largest banks holding a buffer above that
amount.  Ramlau-Hansen said the FSA’s order “will have no impact on
our strategy or equity in the short term.”  The FSA said it has “for some time held the opinion that
the bank had credit risks that were not adequately covered by
Pillar I,” according to a separate statement. “The FSA’s
opinion is based, among other things, on the FSA’s review of
specific exposures in connection with credit inspections and on
reviews of the bank’s internal ratings-based models.”  Danske said it has asked for a third-party assessment.  Systemic Institution  The bank is one of six identified in March as systemically
important to  Denmark ’s $325 billion economy. Danish central bank
Governor Lars Rohde said in an interview published today that
too-big-to-fail banks can expect to be exempt from the nation’s
bail-in legislation, albeit only to the extent such a step would
aid the economy.  “Concerning systemic institutions, one would do everything
possible to protect the systemically important parts, which
would include considerations to the well-being of the general
public,” Rohde said.  European Union resolution laws will ultimately determine
how much freedom national authorities have to bail out or bail
in their lenders, Rohde said.  Aside from adding to Danske’s risk-weighted assets, the
FSA’s measures will cut Pillar II add-ons by about 2 billion
kroner, Danske said, referring to additional individual
requirements. The bank’s Pillar I  capital requirements  will grow
to 72 billion kroner from 64 billion kroner, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  