-- Death of Structured Notes Seen as Brazil Bond Tax Ditched
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-06-17T16:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/death-of-structured-notes-signaled-by-tax-removal-brazil-credit.html
Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  is making obsolete the world’s most-popular market for
structured notes tied to bonds.  Sales of the Brazilian notes, which package bank bonds with
derivatives to allow foreign investors to replicate the nation’s
higher-yielding real debt while avoiding a 6 percent tax, have
plummeted to $40 million in June, 97 percent less than last
month’s tally. Issuance is now on pace to be the lowest since
September 2011 after Mantega scrapped the so-called IOF tax June
5. Banks led by Barclays Plc had sold a record $7.3 billion of
the structured notes this year, 12 times more than debt from
 South Korea , the second-most-popular reference country.  Investors will likely turn to Brazilian local bonds, with
yields that are five times higher than U.S. Treasuries, causing
demand for structured notes to dry up, Citigroup Inc. and  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP)  said.  Brazil , which adopted the tax on foreigners to
limit gains in the real in 2010, removed it after the currency
sank 6.5 percent in May on concern the  Federal Reserve  may curb
stimulus. Real-linked bonds sold overseas, which also let
investors avoid the tax, have posted a record plunge.  “The IOF tax meant Brazil had some of the highest barriers
to entry for foreign investors among  emerging markets ,” Thomas Beatty, New York-based managing director of Latin American
credit structuring at Citigroup, said in a telephone interview.
“Now the tax is gone, demand for credit-linked notes will
reduce dramatically.”  Real Rout  Credit-linked notes, which investors can buy to access
emerging-market debt securities they wouldn’t otherwise be able
to easily purchase, can have higher yields and tailored
maturities that may not be available in the  bond market . Buyers
of the securities suffer losses in the event of a default by the
bank issuing the notes or the linked entity.  More than 90 percent of the notes tied to Brazil mature in
less than a year and are typically linked to government bonds of
longer maturities, such as the country’s 10 percent bonds due
January 2023.  Brazil eliminated the tax after the real plunged to a four-year low, part of a selloff in emerging-market currencies
triggered when Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said May
22 that signs of a sustained improvement in the U.S. jobs market
could lead the Fed to scale back its monthly bond purchases.  ‘Currency War’  Mantega said June 4 he removed the tax because the Fed’s
signaling may reduce the “excess liquidity” that Brazil was
seeking to keep out. He had boosted the tax on foreigners in
October 2010 to weaken the real, saying Brazil was the victim of
a “currency war” in which developed nations were trying to
devalue their currencies by pumping money into their economies
to fuel export-led growth.  The tax removal could “severally impact” the credit-linked note market because “most of the investors should prefer
to open local accounts and buy the bonds directly,” said
Vincent Caris, who heads fixed-income structuring for  Latin
America  at BNP Paribas in  Sao Paulo . Investors will only buy
structured notes if they want tailored features, such as
leveraged returns, he said.  Last week, the government also eliminated a 1 percent tax
on currency derivatives.  Yields on Brazil’s overseas real bonds due in 2022 have
surged 2.44 percentage points in the past month, the most since
they were issued in 2006, to 9.23 percent as the removal of the
tax makes them less attractive and concern over Fed policy
reduces demand for higher-yielding assets.  Barclays Sale  London-based  Barclays (BARC)  issued the most structured notes
linked to Brazil this year, with $2.8 billion of sales,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. JPMorgan Chase & Co. is
the second-largest issuer with sales of $2.4 billion, while HSBC
Holdings Plc sold $1.1 billion. Citigroup raised $469 million.  “Any decline in structured note issuance should be more
than offset by an increase in overall bond and foreign-exchange
trading volumes,” said Karan Madan, head of fixed-income,
currency and commodity trading in Latin America for Barclays.  Barclays added more than 1 billion reals ($465 million) to
a structured note tied to Brazilian government debt on June 3,
the day before the IOF cut was announced, making the securities
the largest of their kind in data that Bloomberg began compiling
in 1999.  Yield Spread  The securities mature on July 26, pay a coupon of 10
percent and were sold at a 6.2 percent premium to par. The notes
are priced in reais and interest and redemption payment are made
in dollars, meaning investors are exposed to swings in the
 exchange rate .  Brandon Ashcraft, a New York-based spokesman for Barclays,
declined to comment on the notes.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government  dollar bonds  instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed five
basis points to 216 basis points at 12:46 p.m. in  New York ,
according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years was little changed at 151 basis points, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent if a borrower fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real fell 0.4 percent to 2.1597 per dollar.  Russian Bonds  Before Euroclear Bank SA began offering foreign investors
direct settlement of Russian government debt in February,
structured notes that replicate returns of the bonds, known as
OFZs, were the most issued after Brazil at $2.4 billion in 2012,
according to Bloomberg data.  This year, investors have only bought $96.8 million of the
notes, while foreign ownership of  Russia ’s ruble bonds has
surged sevenfold to 21 percent of the outstanding total of OFZs,
or about 600 billion rubles ($18.9 billion), according to Eddie Astanin, board chairman of the National Settlement Depository.  Sluggish growth in Latin America’s biggest economy and the
selloff in emerging-market assets will curtail inflows into
Brazilian bonds, Natixis analysts led by Juan Carlos Rodado said
in a June 6 report.  Standard & Poor’s  cut the outlook on Brazil’s BBB rating
outlook to negative on June 6, citing slow economic growth,
weakening fiscal accounts and a loss of credibility with
investors. Gross domestic product expanded  1.9 percent  from the
year earlier in the first quarter, less than the 2.3 percent
forecast by analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  “It is difficult for inventors to remain confident about
the country,” the Natixis analysts wrote. “The removal of the
IOF tax on bonds will not be enough to restore confidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  