-- Deposed President’s Wife Leads Polls as Honduras Campaigns Begin
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-06-17T12:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/deposed-president-s-wife-leads-polls-as-honduras-campaigns-begin.html
Xiomara Castro began her
presidential campaign in  Honduras  yesterday, almost four years
after husband and ex-President  Manuel Zelaya  was roused from his
sleep and flown out of the Central American country in pajamas
during a military coup.  Representing the Liberty and Reestablishment Party, known
as Libre, Castro opened her campaign for November’s election
with a speech that outlined plans to demilitarize the country,
promote foreign and private investment, and create a constituent
assembly to modify the constitution. Castro, 53, leads polls
with 28 percent support, according to CID-Gallup, which surveyed
1,233 potential voters from  May 2 to 8 and has a margin of
error of five percentage points.  Castro’s plans to create a constituent assembly echo those
of Zelaya, who sat behind his wife in his trademark white
stetson cowboy hat at yesterday’s campaign opening in
Tegucigalpa. During the final year of his presidency, Zelaya’s
attempt to hold a referendum to form a constituent assembly led
to his ouster by the armed forces on June 28, 2009, as some
government officials presumed that he aimed to modify
presidential term limitations to remain in power.  “There is a consensus among Honduran parties that
something needs to be done to change some weaknesses within the
Honduran constitution,” Heather Berkman, political risk analyst
at New York-based Eurasia Group Ltd., said in a phone interview.
“That was a key issue that was left unresolved after Zelaya was
ousted and it is something that I think would be agreed to by
both sides of the political spectrum.”  Crime, Impunity  Clad in the red and black colors of the Libre party, Castro
also criticized rises in crime and impunity during the current
government of President Porfirio Lobo. Honduras has one of the
world’s highest homicide rates, with 86 of every 100,000
citizens suffering a violent death in 2012, according to the
Violence Observatory at Honduras’s National Autonomous
University.  “Bipartisanship has converted the country into a stage for
drug-traffickers and militiamen where justice is bought and
sold,” Castro said to thousands of flag-waving supporters at
the National Engineers Coliseum. “It has made Honduras into the
most violent country in the world and created more ignorance,
hunger, inequality and other calamities, which have left us with
an unprecedented fiscal abyss.”  Honduras’s presidential elections will be held Nov. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  