-- Detroit Recovery Plan Threatens Muni-Market Underpinnings
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-06-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/detroit-recovery-plan-threatens-muni-market-underpinnings.html
Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr’s plan
to suspend payments on $2 billion of Detroit’s debt threatens a
basic tenet of the $3.7 trillion municipal market: that states
and cities will raise taxes as high as needed to avoid default.  Orr, appointed by Republican Governor Rick Snyder to
oversee  Michigan ’s largest city, proposed a deal last week that
included skipping a $39.7 million payment on pension-obligation
debt. The city is also set to default on unsecured unlimited-tax
and limited-tax general-obligation bonds as it grapples with $17
billion in liabilities to avoid a record bankruptcy.  By calling into question the safety of any security backed
by a government’s general obligation to pay what it owes, Orr,
55, imperils similar debt across Michigan, the eighth-most-populous state. As local governments strive to rebound from the
longest recession since the 1930s, they may confront higher
borrowing costs.  “It definitely sets a precedent, and there’s definitely
going to be a penalty going forward for the city and the
state,” said Dan Solender, director of munis at Lord Abbett &
Co. in Jersey City, New Jersey. The company oversees $19.5
billion of local debt.  Detroit , where officials struggle to provide public safety
and even street lighting, joins California cities Stockton and
San Bernardino in trying to stick bondholders with a loss. With
about 700,000 residents, it’s the most-populous city in at least
35 years to default on debt.  No Limit  The biggest surprise is Orr’s willingness to skip payments
on interest and principal owed on unlimited-tax general-obligation bonds, said Matt Fabian, a managing director at
Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors.  Paying less than 100 cents on the dollar would “rock the
market,” said Tamara Lowin, director of research for Belle
Haven Investments in White Plains, New York.  Orr, a Washington bankruptcy lawyer, lacks a nuanced
understanding of the security behind Detroit’s two classes of
general-obligation debt, Lowin said.  Unlimited-tax bonds must be approved by voters and repaid
from a special property levy that has no limit as to rate or
amount, Lowin said. The revenue is entirely separate from that
used to cover general-fund operations. By contrast, she said,
limited bonds are unsecured.  Statewide Ripples  “You could make the case for downgrading every G.O. bond
in Michigan,” Fabian said. “Bondholders need to assume that
they’re substantially weaker.”  After Orr aired his plan with creditors June 14, Standard &
Poor’s lowered its rating on the city’s general-obligation debt
a step to CC from CCC- with a negative outlook. That’s 10 steps
below investment grade.  Terry Stanton, a spokesman for Michigan Treasurer Andy Dillon, said by e-mail that “nearly all of the local units of
government in Michigan carrying G.O. debt are in a significantly
better financial position than the City of Detroit.”  Investors demand 0.71 percentage point more in yield than
top-rated municipal bonds to own general-obligation securities
issued by Michigan and its localities, the third-highest spread
among 19 states tracked by Bloomberg Fair Value indexes. Only
issuers in  Illinois , the lowest-rated U.S. state, and
Pennsylvania face higher borrowing costs.  Orr is asking unsecured creditors owed at least $5.85
billion to trade their debt for $2 billion in new, 20-year notes
that carry an interest rate of 1.5 percent.  Don’t Panic  Bondholders shouldn’t panic, because suspended payments
don’t necessarily mean they will be forced to take principal
reductions, said  James Spiotto , a partner with Chapman & Cutler
LLP, a law firm in  Chicago .  In 1975, New York City suspended payments on debt. After a
lawsuit, negotiations and state and federal aid, creditors were
fully repaid, he said.  “The devil is in the dialogue,” Spiotto said, referring to
coming negotiations between Orr and Detroit creditors.  Investors holding insured debt may also be paid in full.
 Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)  is “committed to honoring its
unconditional and irrevocable guaranty,” Ashweeta Durani, a
spokeswoman for the insurer, said in a statement. National
Public Finance Guarantee Corp. will ensure that policyholders
get timely principal and interest payments, Kevin Brown, a
spokesman, said in a statement.  Getting Out  Investors are selling the city’s insured securities anyway.
A Detroit unlimited-tax general-obligation bond maturing in
April 2028 traded June 14 at an average of 96 cents on the
dollar, the lowest since March 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The bonds are backed by a unit of Assured Guaranty.  Bart Mosley, co-president of Trident Municipal Research in
New York, said an issuer’s “full faith and credit” pledge must
give way to facts.  “Economic reality, such as Detroit’s shrinking population
and tax base, does impose a limit: Once all the blood is
squeezed from the stone, you are unsecured.”  Cutting Detroit income and property taxes so that they’re
competitive with surrounding areas is critical to reversing
crippling population and job losses, Orr said in his report.  Detroit isn’t the only Michigan municipality facing fiscal
distress. This month, Snyder said a fiscal emergency existed in
Hamtramck, a city of 22,000 encompassed by Detroit.  Hamtramck, along with other Michigan communities under an
emergency manager, such as Pontiac and Flint, will face even
higher penalties as investors anticipate a similar treatment of
general-obligation debt, Solender said.  Richard Larkin at Herbert J. Sims & Co. said there’ll be
“hell to pay” for local bond issuers because of the default.  “It will certainly affect all the debt of struggling
governments in Michigan, if not nationally,” Belle Haven’s
Lowin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  