-- Draghi Critique of Spain’s Tax Increases Is Rejected by Montoro
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-06-17T11:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/draghi-critique-of-spain-s-tax-increases-is-rejected-by-montoro.html
Spanish Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro dismissed criticism from  Mario Draghi  that  Spain  has
increased taxes too much as it tries to cut the deficit.  “The figures are the figures, the rest is opinion,”
Montoro said today when asked about the  European Central Bank (EURR002W) 
president’s comments at a press conference in Santander, Spain.
“I keep reading that the adjustment has been done through tax
hikes. How can people say that with the national accounts in
their hand?”  Draghi this month urged European governments including
Spain that are struggling to rein in their  budget deficits  to
take the “difficult” decision to cut spending instead of
raising taxes and risk damping economic growth. Spain delivered
about 30 percent of its austerity measures through tax increases
last year, Montoro said today.  The budget minister follows economy chief, Luis de Guindos,
in rebutting Draghi’s criticism of a fiscal consolidation plan
that the Spanish government says has been endorsed by both the
European Commission and the ECB.  Almost a year after investors were soothed by his promise
to do “whatever it takes” to protect the euro, and a month
since he cut  interest rates , Draghi signaled on June 6 that
governments, not the ECB, should do more to fight recession and
boost credit to businesses in countries such as Spain.  ‘Easiest’ Path  “Fiscal consolidation in most countries has taken the
shape of increasing taxes” which is “the easiest thing to
do,” Draghi told reporters in  Frankfurt  in response to a
question on the Spanish budget. “A better way would be the
difficult way, namely to reduce unproductive government
expenditure and reduce taxes together.”  Spain’s budget deficit rose to a three-year high of 10.6
percent last year after the government agreed a 41 billion-euro
($55 billion) European rescue loan to clean up its banks.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA Chairma  Francisco Gonzalez , who appeared on the same panel as Montoro, urged the
government to complete the restructuring of the banking system
as quickly as possible.  “The financial reform will be finished when all
institutions are in private hands and the financial system is
functioning normally,” Gonzalez said. “We are on the right
track.”  He declined to speculate on whether Spanish banks may need
more capital from the European Union before a review of  Europe ’s
banking system that the ECB is due to complete later this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  