-- Drugmakers Opened to ‘Pay for Delay’ Suits by High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-06-17T21:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/drugmakers-opened-to-pay-for-delay-suits-by-high-court.html
Drugmakers can be sued for paying
rivals to delay low-cost versions of popular medicines, the U.S.
 Supreme Court  said in a decision that rewrites the rules
governing the release of generic drugs.  The 5-3 ruling is largely a victory for the Federal Trade
Commission and the Obama administration, reversing a lower-court
decision that had effectively insulated pharmaceutical companies
from liability. The FTC says those “pay for delay” accords
cost drug purchasers as much as $3.5 billion a year. The
industry says the deals are legitimate patent settlements.  The ruling may lead to lawsuits by wholesalers, retailers,
insurers and antitrust enforcers.  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,  Merck & Co. (MRK)  and
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  units already have faced claims. The
FTC says 40 pay-for-delay agreements, also known as reverse
payments, were reached in fiscal 2012 alone.  “A reverse payment, where large and unjustified, can bring
with it the risk of significant anticompetitive effects,”
Justice  Stephen Breyer  said in the court’s majority opinion.  Breyer stopped short of adopting the FTC’s proposal that
such agreements should be presumed anticompetitive. He said the
accords should be evaluated under a longstanding antitrust test
known as the “rule of reason.”  A federal appeals court had said pharmaceutical companies
can’t be sued unless the patent litigation is a sham or a
generic-drug maker agrees to delay introduction even after the
patent has expired.  ‘Significant Victory’  “The Supreme Court’s decision is a significant victory for
American consumers, American taxpayers, and free markets,” FTC
Chairman Edith Ramirez said in a statement. “The court has made
it clear that pay-for-delay agreements between brand and generic
drug companies are subject to antitrust scrutiny.”  The brand-name drug industry’s trade group, the
 Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America , said the
ruling will discourage companies from reaching settlements.  “This will negatively affect patients and discourage
investment in future biomedical research,” the Washington-based
trade association said in a statement.  The Generic Pharmaceutical Association’s chief executive
officer, Ralph Neas, said the ruling “continues to provide a
lawful pathway for companies to resolve disputes through
settlements.”  The case divided the court along ideological lines, with
Justices Anthony Kennedy,  Ruth Bader Ginsburg ,  Sonia Sotomayor 
and Elena Kagan joining Breyer in the majority.  ‘Weakens’ Protections  Chief Justice  John Roberts  and Justices Antonin Scalia and
 Clarence Thomas  dissented. Roberts said the ruling will
discourage settlements.  The ruling “weakens the protections afforded to innovators
by patents, frustrates the public policy in favor of settling
and likely undermines the very policy it seeks to promote,”
Roberts wrote for the group.  Justice  Samuel Alito  didn’t take part in the case. As is
the court’s custom, Alito didn’t give any reasons.  The disputed settlements stem from the economics of the
pharmaceutical industry, where companies can reap billions of
dollars from blockbuster drugs and then have sales plummet the
moment a generic alternative appears.  The FTC says generic drugs sell for an average of 15
percent of the original price, with the brand-name company
losing 90 percent of its market share by unit sales. Generics
have saved purchasers $1.1 trillion in the last decade, the
industry says.  Payments Questioned  Pharmaceutical patent settlements typically arise just as a
generic-drug maker is securing  Food and Drug Administration 
approval to introduce its version of a drug. At that stage, only
the brand-name company’s patents stand in the way of
competition.  The FTC and its allies say they don’t object to settlements
that merely set the date for a generic drug’s entry to the
market. They say a payment to the generic-drug maker changes the
equation, suggesting the companies are agreeing to delay the
generic drug, keep prices high and split what economists call
“monopoly profits.”  A 2010 FTC  study  found that the accords cost purchasers
$3.5 billion a year, a figure the drug industry contests.  The  high court  case centered on Androgel, a treatment for
low testosterone in men that is made by Solvay Pharmaceuticals
Inc. The FTC sued Solvay and three generic-drug companies,
including  Actavis Inc. (ACT)   Patent Protection  The FTC says the price for Androgel was poised to fall at
least 75 percent in 2007 after the Food and Drug Administration
cleared the way for competition. Faced with the prospect of
losing $125 million in annual profits, Solvay instead paid the
generic-drug makers as much as $42 million a year to delay their
competing versions until 2015, the FTC says. At the time,
Actavis was known as Watson Pharmaceuticals.  The companies said Solvay, which is now part of  AbbVie
Inc. (ABBV) , had a patent that, if backed by the courts, would have
protected the drug an additional five years -- until 2020.  The decision “continues to provide for a lawful and
legitimate pathway for resolving patent challenge litigation in
a manner that is pro-competitive and beneficial to American
consumers,” Actavis Chief Executive Officer  Paul Bisaro  said in
a statement. “The court’s ruling, however, does place an
additional and unnecessary administrative burden on our
industry.”  AbbVie said in a statement that the company is “confident
that the plaintiffs’ claims will again be unsuccessful.”  Compensation Argument  The companies said the payments were compensation for
services to be provided by the generic-drug makers, including
Watson’s marketing of Androgel to urologists.  Breyer said that lower courts assessing agreements should
consider the size of the payment. He said companies may be able
to show that a payment covered only the litigation expenses
saved through settlement or was compensation for services
performed by the generic-drug company.  “The FTC didn’t get all that it asked for -- specifically
a holding that a reverse payment to delay generic entry is
presumptively illegal,” said Jonathan Jacobson, an antitrust
lawyer with  Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati  in  New York . “But
the Supreme Court gave the FTC a lesser, and still significant,
win by holding that this type of legal theory is valid.”  ‘More Litigation’  The ruling “will lead to a lot more litigation to flesh
out the rule-of-reason standard,” said Steve Reed, a partner at
Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP in Philadelphia and former deputy
general counsel for the drugmaker Cephalon Inc. He said the
decision “will have a chilling effect on patent settlements
except those that only involve changes in the time frame of the
patent or minor payments to avoid litigation.”  The FTC currently has a patent settlement case against
Cephalon, which was put on hold during the Supreme Court fight.  Seth Bloom, the former general counsel for the Senate
Antitrust Subcommittee, said drug companies may be able to find
ways to work around the decision once the lower courts spell out
how it will work in practice.  Rule-of-reason cases are “generally pretty difficult to
win,” said Bloom, who is in private practice at Bloom Strategic
Counsel in  Washington . “In the short run, it may deter some
pay-for-delay deals, but in the longer term, I wouldn’t be
surprised if the drug companies adjust.”  The case is Federal Trade Commission v. Actavis, 12-416.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  