-- ECB’s Mersch Says Budget Rules Not Being Applied Strictly Enough
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-06-17T17:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/ecb-s-mersch-says-budget-rules-not-being-applied-strictly-enough.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Yves Mersch said euro-area governments may be
returning to lax fiscal policies and shouldn’t easily be able to
delay budget-cutting measures.  “I fear that the unsound economic policies in some  member
states  are once again not being opposed decisively enough,”
Mersch said, according to the text of a speech in Hamburg today.
“Deadlines for the correction of excessive budget deficits
should, for instance, only be extended, by way of exception, in
the event of exceedingly adverse circumstances. Extensions
should not become the rule.”  Mersch is the second ECB board member today to take aim at
a decision by the European Commission in May to allow countries
including  Spain  and  Italy  two additional years to reach budget-consolidation targets in the face of enduring recession and
record unemployment. Joerg Asmussen said earlier that a slowdown
in moves toward consolidation risks renewing turmoil on
government bond markets.  The regulatory framework for steering European economic
policy, including a new arrangement for co-ordinating national
budgets, isn’t being implemented consistently, Mersch said.  “The rules of the new European governance framework can
only be effective if they are strictly applied,” he said in the
speech. “Its success thus depends on the action taken by the
European Commission and the  Council of Ministers .”  Bank Supervision  Mersch also criticized a proposal by German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  for the introduction of a Europe-wide mechanism for winding down or restructuring failing banks,
which would see national systems linked without transferring
control to the European level. ECB officials have said they want
such a system to be ready by the time the Frankfurt-based
central bank takes over responsibility for supervising banks
next year.  “A network of national authorities would fall short of
what is necessary in this respect,” Mersch said. “A European
resolution authority would ensure that decisions are taken in a
timely and objective manner.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Black  in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  