-- Medtronic, ‘Happy Birthday’: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-06-17T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/medtronic-happy-birthday-intellectual-property.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ’s aortic valve,
inserted into the heart via a catheter, doesn’t violate  Edwards
Lifesciences Inc. (EW) ’s Cribier patent, the German District Court of
Mannheim ruled.  The Cribier patent invoked doesn’t cover the Medtronic
CoreValve device targeted in the case, Stefanie Voelker, a court
spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview. There are two more
challenges pending in Germany covering different patents that
will be resolved later this year or in early 2014.  Medtronic generates about $75 million, or 5 cents in
earnings per share, from CoreValve’s sales in Germany, said
Danielle Antalffy, an analyst with Leerink Swann in  New York . It
would have been a “significant windfall” for  Irvine ,
California-based Edwards if the ruling had gone the other way,
with an injunction against Medtronic, that could have added 25
cents to 30 cents a share to Edwards’ annual earnings.  The news is “a minor negative for Edwards, as we believe
some investors had started to factor in a potential infringement
decision and injunction against Medtronic,” Antalffy wrote in a
note to clients June 13. “In Germany, where  patent law  is
different than in the U.S., a ruling of patent infringement
results in an immediate injunction, which would result in
removal of Medtronic’s CoreValve from the German market.”  Edwards is unlikely to win either of the remaining patent
decisions, said  Larry Biegelsen , an analyst with Well Fargo in
New York. While Edwards was able to protect its Andersen patents
in the U.S., it wasn’t successful in Germany, he wrote in a note
to investors.  “Therefore, we think there is no guarantee Edwards will
prevail” in either of the ongoing cases in Germany, he wrote.  Gene Patent Ruling Triggers Race to Market Cancer Risk Scans  Companies and a university are moving to offer cheaper and
broader genetic testing for breast cancer risk to a growing
group of women, following a U.S. Supreme Court ruling that ended
 Myriad Genetics Inc.’s (MYGN)  monopoly over DNA that vastly raises odds
for the disease.  Within hours of the decision, the  University of Washington 
and  Ambry Genetics , a closely held company in  Aliso Viejo ,
 California , said they would immediately offer expanded testing
that included the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes, which Myriad has had
under patent since the late 1990s.  Quest Diagnostics Inc. (DGX)  said
it would sell testing for the genes later this year.  By invalidating key parts of Myriad’s patents, the court
has removed a bar that prevented labs using new technology from
developing and selling broader one-time tests that search for
all known cancer risks, including the BRCA genes, geneticists
said. It could also mean lower prices for the screening, which
can cost as much as $4,000 for Myriad’s most comprehensive
version of its BRCA cancer gene test.  The bad BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes, the most common cause of
hereditary breast and ovarian cancer, are present in roughly 1
in 400 women and give women an elevated risk of ovarian cancer
as well as a higher breast cancer risk.  As a result of the  Supreme Court ’s ruling last week, women
can now undergo one-time testing for a wide band of genes that
have been linked to breast and other cancers, said  Mary-Claire
King , the University of  Washington  geneticist who first proved
that a single gene could vastly raise breast cancer risk,
leading to the discovery of BRCA1.  The  U.S. Patent and Trademark Office  issued a memorandum
following the ruling that ordered its examiners to reject patent
claims on isolated DNA, saying the high court ruling
“significantly changes the office’s examination policy.”
Further guidelines will be issued once the agency reviews the
decision, according to the memo signed by Andrew Hirshfeld,
deputy commissioner for patent examination policy.  “We don’t expect today’s decision to impact our business
operations,”  Ronald Rogers , a spokesman for Myriad, said last
week in a telephone interview. The Supreme Court opinion doesn’t
affect the vast majority of the company’s patent claims on the
tests for the two breast cancer genes, he said.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Chinese Trademark Application Rose 10.6 Percent in Early 2013  Trademark applications in  China  during the first four
months of 2013 rose 10.6 percent over the number filed in the
same period last year, Xinhua  reported .  By the end of 2012, China led the world in the number of
registered trademarks with 6.4 million, according to Xinhua.  Li Junchen, deputy director of the State Administration for
Industry & Commerce, said that only a few Chinese trademarks are
internationally competitive, Xinhua reported  He told Xinhua that China needs more world-famous
trademarks and “a market environment for fair competition” to
become a world power in trademarks.  HomeVestors Steps Up Trademark Enforcement in Florida, Texas  HomeVestors of America Inc. , a closely held real estate
franchise company, said in a  statement  it has initiated
enforcement action against more than 30 trademark infringers in
the first six months of 2013.  The Dallas-based company said through its enforcement
activities, it has been transferred three Internet domain names,
and won three Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy
proceedings against infringers who incorporated the company’s
trademarks into their domain names without authorization.  Among the company’s registered U.S. trademarks are “ugly
opportunities,” “we buy ugly houses,” “the ugliest house of
the year,” and “Ugly’s OK,” according to the database of the
U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office .  The company said the highest frequency of instances in
which its trademarks have been used without authorization are
south  Florida , Houston and San Antonio, so it is presently
focusing its enforcement activities in those areas.  HomeVestors’ franchisees buy and rehabilitated residential
properties.  Trendsettah Sues Florida Competitor Over Cigar Packaging, Marks  Trendsettah USA Inc., the maker of  Splitarillos  flavored
cigars, claims its trademarks are infringed by a maker and
seller of a competing product and is seeking at least $2 million
in damages.  Miami-based  J.A. Tobacco Corp. ’s  Ziparillo  cigars have
copied “the entire look and feel” of the Splitarillos product,
Trendesettah said in the infringement complaint filed June 11 in
federal court in  Los Angeles .  According to court papers, both companies’ products are
packaged in similar-looking and both sell for three cigars for
99 cents. Both brands’ products come in fruit-flavored versions,
with Splitarillos selling blueberry, pineapple, grape-flavored
cigars, and Ziparillos coming in berry and grape.  Trendsettah, of Mission Viejo, California, said the
Ziparillo packaging uses a font and color of lettering that is
confusingly similar to its own. The size and shape of the
Ziparillo packaging is “virtually identical” to Splitarillo’s,
according to court papers. Ziparillo ads contain an image of an
eagle that is very much like the one in Splitarillo’s
advertising, the company claims.  Trendsettah asked the court to bar J.A. Tobacco from the
use of the Ziparillo name, and from using infringing packaging
design. It also seeks an order for the seizure and destruction
of all “misleading and confusingly similar material” related
to Ziparillos, and asks for awards of profits the Florida
company derived from its alleged infringement.  Additionally, Trendsettah asked for awards of $2 million in
damages, and litigation costs and attorney fees.  J.A. Tobacco didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  The case is Trendsettah USA Inc. v. J. A. Tobacco Corp.,
2:13-cv-04194-BRO-PJW, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Time Warner Unit’s ‘ Happy Birthday  to You’ Copyright Challenged  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner/Chappell Music unit was sued by a
company seeking “Happy Birthday to You” be declared in the
public domain and ordering the publisher return licensing fees
it has collected in connection with the song.  According to the complaint filed June 13 in federal court
in Manhattan, New York-based Good Morning to You Productions
Corp. has paid Warner/Chappell Music $1,500 for a license to use
the song. The company is producing a documentary about the song,
which is the most recognized in the English language, according
to court papers.  Good Morning to You recounted the song’s history in court
papers, claiming it’s based on a song two sisters wrote before
1893 as “Good Morning to All.” They assigned their copyright
to Clayton F. Summy in 1893 in return for 10 percent of the
retail sales of a manuscript of their songs, including “Good
Morning.”  That year, Summy registered the copyright to the collection
of songs, now titled “Song Stories for the Kindergarten,” as
the owner but not the author. Summy then incorporated the
Clayton F. Summy Co. and filed another copyright application for
the work in a new edition in 1896.  The plaintiff said the lyrics to “Happy Birthday to You”
weren’t published in the 1896 version. The public began singing
the song no later than the early 1900s, even though they hadn’t
yet been published, according to the complaint.  The complaint asked that a class be certified of all who
entered into any license with Warner/Chappell for the use of
“Happy Birthday” from June 13, 2009, until the present.  The court is then asked to address whether the song is in
the public domain and whether Warner/Chappell is the exclusive
owner of the copyright to the song and has the right to collect
fees for its use.  The plaintiff also asked the court to determine whether
Warner/Chappell violated the law by collecting fees for the
song’s use and whether the publisher is required to return
payments made of its licensing.  Additionally, Good Morning to You is seeking what it says
is restitution for Warner/Chappell’s actions, and awards of
litigation costs and attorney fees.  Warner/Chappell didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment
on the suit.  The case is Good Morning to You Productions Corp. v.
Warner/Chappell Music Inc., 1:13-cv-04040, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 