-- Medtronic’s Infuse No Better Than Bone Graft With Risk
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-06-18T20:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/medtronic-s-infuse-benefits-equal-bone-graft-with-risk.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ’s Infuse, designed to
help bones heal after spinal surgery, works no better than a
graft and carries side effects including an increased risk of
cancer, two independent reviews found.  The studies published in the  Annals of Internal Medicine 
may help doctors weigh when to recommend the product, used in
more than 1 million patients. The $2.5 million review of Infuse
was commissioned by Minneapolis-based Medtronic in 2011 after
the product’s risk-benefit profile was called into question by
research linking it to male sterility, infections and cancer.  The most recent studies carry a mixed message that needs to
be carefully explained so patients “can make informed choices
about the type of surgery they would prefer,” the researchers
wrote. While Infuse is less invasive than a bone graft, which
can require a separate surgery, the rise in cancer rates and
other potential risk are worrisome, they said.  “I remain concerned that products like these are approved
with too little study before they reach the market and too
little afterward,”  Harlan Krumholz , the Yale University
professor who was in charge of the project, said in a telephone
interview. “There is a tremendous amount of uncertainty about
the benefit it provides and how safe it is.”  Shares Dip  Medtronic, the world’s biggest maker of spinal treatments,
fell 1.1 percent to $52.92 at the close in New York. The shares
have gained 39 percent in the past 12 months.  Infuse was the first product reviewed as part of Krumholz’s
Yale University Open Data Access project. The information on
Infuse is now contained in databases that other researchers can
access and analyze.  Earlier studies that said Infuse was risk-free were marred
by reports of financial ties between the researchers and the
company, and one of the new reviews found those publications
misrepresented the risks and benefits. Chief Executive Officer
Omar Ishrak, who authorized Yale University to conduct the
review two months after he took the helm at Medtronic, cited it
as a key element in the company’s growth prospects.  The latest reviews show Infuse is equivalent or better than
the gold standard treatment for spinal fusion, which is bone
grafts using material that must first be harvested from the hip,
said Chris O’Connell, president of Medtronic’s Restorative
Therapies Group.  Cancer Rates  The rates of cancer were low and the risk from Infuse was
inconclusive, O’Connell said. Medtronic is looking for ways to
continue studying the product, he said.  “This is a really important product and it’s one that
deserves a lot of attention from the standpoint of clinical
research,” O’Connell said in a telephone interview.  Infuse  is a reasonable treatment for some fusions in the
lower spine, wrote  Daniel Resnick  from the University of
Wisconsin and Kevin Bozic, from the University of  California ,
San Francisco, in an editorial that accompanied the research
released yesterday.  It shouldn’t be used at the top of the spine, where it
isn’t approved, without a compelling reason because of higher
complication rates, they said. The small and perhaps temporary
increased risk of cancer should be evaluated for each patient,
they said in an editorial accompanying the reviews.  Spinal Surgery  The role of Infuse “in spinal surgery is still being
defined,” according to the editorial. “Clinicians should
carefully weigh the demonstrated and potential benefits and
harms as well as the costs when considering the adoption and use
of new health care technologies.”  Sales of Infuse may dip, primarily because of the increased
risk of cancer noted in the report, said Derrick Sung, an
analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein. Analysts projected future
declines in Infuse revenue notes to clients today, though they
varied with how steep the drop will be.  “Most surgeons are well aware of the risks associated with
Infuse and have years of personal experience on which to base
their assessments of efficacy,” Sung wrote. “Our sense is that
most surgeons have made up their mind around appropriate usage
of Infuse,” he said. “The negative finding around increased
cancer risk somewhat outweighs the positive finding around the
lack of other adverse events.”  Infuse, which  generated  $528 million worldwide in the year
ended April 26, accounts for 3 percent of the company’s
business, Ishrak said at the Bernstein Strategic Decisions
Conference on May 31.  Widespread Use  The product is unlikely to return to the widespread use of
earlier years, when orthopedic surgeons were giving it so often
that it was unclear which procedures had regulatory approval,
said  Joanne Wuensch , a New York-based analyst at BMO Capital
Markets. Infuse’s sales have plunged 37 percent since its $221
million peak in the first quarter of 2009.  “It became like the magic sprinkle powder in orthopedic
and spinal surgeries, and other operations throughout the
body,” Wuensch said by telephone. “I don’t think we ever go
back to that. The physician’s market has right-sized itself.”  While there are rival products from  Nuvasive Inc. (NUVA)  and
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Synthes unit, they haven’t been rigorously
studied in the same patients and don’t have the same approvals
from U.S. regulators, she said.  Doctors administered Infuse for a variety of conditions,
believing it carried few side effects, according to the reports
released today. While the bone growth protein is approved for
tibia fractures, facial surgery and fusing damaged vertebrae in
the lower spine, it was widely used in the upper, cervical spine
and other areas, doctors said.  Research Groups  The Yale review analyzed findings from two research groups,
one at the Oregon Health & Sciences University in  Portland  and
the University of York in the U.K. The two groups were given
detailed data from 17 spinal studies using Infuse on more than
2,000 patients, as well as safety reports given to U.S.
regulators and other publications about the product.  The Oregon review found that Infuse was similar to bone
grafts in overall success, fusion rates and risks when used in
lumbar spine fusion, though some published studies incorrectly
said Infuse performed better.  For other types of surgery, Infuse patients had higher,
though not always significant, increases in retrograde
ejaculation, urogenital problems, bone spurs that can cause
nerve pain and wound complications.  “We couldn’t find a clear advantage in terms of benefits,
and when you take into account there could be potential risks
that should be more carefully evaluated, it tips the scales
toward not using it,” said senior author  Mark Helfand , an
internal medicine specialist at OHSU, in a telephone interview.  The review from the University of York found fusion rates
were better after two years with Infuse, with more early pain
and less later pain. Cancer occurred in a small number of people
and may have been more common with Infuse. The results weren’t
definitive and studies may have been biased, researchers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  