-- Egypt’s Mursi Props Up Islamist Power Base With New Appointments
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-06-17T07:52:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/egypt-s-mursi-props-up-islamist-power-base-with-new-appointments.html
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi is
to swear in 17 new provincial governors, including seven from
the Muslim Brotherhood, shoring up the Islamists’ power base
amid rising secularist concerns about the nation’s direction.  Mursi, in a decree issued yesterday and posted on the
presidential spokesman’s Facebook page, also named a member of
the Al-Gamaa Al-Islamiya as governor of Luxor province. That
means the top tourist destination will be governed by a figure
from the onetime militant group behind the 1997 attack on a
famed Luxor temple that killed 58 foreigners and four Egyptians.  Al-Gamaa Al-Islamiya was among the militant groups that
battled former President  Hosni Mubarak ’s security forces before
being largely crushed and renouncing violence. The group turned
to mainstream politics after Mubarak’s 2011 ouster and have
gained ground since Mursi’s election a year ago. Its
ultraconservative Islamic ideology is often seen at odds with
promoting tourism.  The appointment of Islamists, reported by state-run al-Ahram Online and effective once Mursi swears in the provincial
officials later today, builds on his concerted push to bolster
their strength at a time when critics accuse him of mismanaging
the country’s transition from Mubarak’s autocratic rule.
Detractors say he is more concerned with promoting an Islamic
agenda than redressing the deepening poverty and polarization
plaguing the country.  Opponents plan mass rallies on June 30, the end of Mursi’s
first year as  Egypt ’s first democratically elected civilian
president, to draw attention to his failures and call for new
presidential elections.  Nobel peace laureate and opposition figure  Mohamed ElBaradei  said the opposition would only field one candidate if
the effort to secure an early presidential vote is successful,
Ahram Online reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  