-- Egypt Stock Trading Slumps to Five-Year Low Before Protests
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-06-17T11:47:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/egypt-stock-trading-slumps-to-five-year-low-before-protests.html
Trading in  Egypt ’s benchmark stock
index, the world’s worst performer in June, tumbled to the
lowest level by value in five years, on concern anti-government
protests will bring the nation to a “tipping point.”  Shares of about 70 million Egyptian pounds ($10 million)
 were traded  yesterday, the lowest since Bloomberg started
tracking the data in August 2008. About 85 million pounds
changed hands so far today, compared with a 12-month average of
about 400 million pounds.  Egypt’s stocks have slumped 15 percent in June, the most
among 94 gauges tracked by Bloomberg, amid growing polarization
between supporters and opponents of the North African country’s
Islamist government. Both sides are calling for nationwide
demonstrations on June 30, the one-year anniversary of President
Mohamed Mursi taking office.  “We’re at a point where the regime’s inflexibility with
the opposition and lack of achievements over the past year has
pushed the country to what many see as a tipping point,” Tamer Nigm, head of sales trading at Cairo-based Watheeqa Securities,
said by phone. “Thin trading shows investors are taking the
prospect seriously.”  The EGX30 Index on June 12 entered a so-called  bear market 
after tumbling 23 percent from a peak in September.  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) 
last week said it may review Egypt’s 12 year-old emerging-market
status for a possible downgrade should the nation’s currency
shortage worsen.  New Governors  The EGX 30 Index rose 0.1 percent to 4,606.92 as of 1:04
p.m. in Cairo after yesterday tumbling 1 percent. The gauge’s
14-day relative strength index has been below 30 since June 9, a
level that indicates to some analysts that a security is
oversold and poised to advance.  Mursi appointed new governors last night for 17 out of
Egypt’s 27 provinces, including seven from among his main
backers, the Muslim Brotherhood. His opponents, who say they
have collected  millions of petitions , are planning to demand his
resignation at the protests, as well as call for early
presidential elections.  “Investors now see any rebound in the market as an exit
opportunity as confidence has evaporated ahead of the planned
protests,” Nigm said. “We may be looking at a period where
extraordinarily low volumes become the norm.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  