-- Heineken Weighs New Brewery for Mexico Comeback in AB InBev Duel
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2013-06-17T19:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/heineken-weighs-new-brewery-for-mexico-comeback-in-ab-inbev-duel.html
Heineken NV (HEIA)  may build a new brewery
in Mexico as it wins back market share lost after its 2010
purchase of the nation’s second-largest brewer, said Marc
Busain, the company’s top executive in the country.  The Amsterdam-based brewer, the world’s third-largest,
boosted its Mexican market share last year to about 42 percent
after a decline in 2011, Busain said last week in an interview
in Mexico City.  The gain is bolstering Heineken as  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) ,
the world’s largest brewer, completes a $20.1 billion purchase
of Corona maker  Grupo Modelo SAB (GMODELOC)  and Mexico’s antitrust
regulator decides whether to allow more competition in beer.
Heineken, with brands including Tecate and Sol, is studying
plans to build its seventh brewery in  Mexico  by 2016, assuming
growth continues and the government doesn’t raise beer taxes.  “We want to gain a lot of market share here in Mexico,”
said Busain, president and chief executive officer of Heineken’s
Cuauhtemoc Moctezuma unit. “When you have a combination of the
positive demographics and the economic growth and you have every
year about 1 million people reaching the drinking age, that’s
where you need to be.”  While Busain declined to say how much Heineken might spend
on a new plant, a brewery of the size being considered typically
would cost as much as 400 million euros ($534 million), he said.
The company is studying possible locations.  Key Market  “Given the importance of the country, given the fact that
we export a lot to the  United States , at a certain moment you
might have spare capacity in the south, but it would be pretty
expensive to bring it to the U.S.,” Busain said.  AB InBev, based in Leuven,  Belgium , completed its purchase
of the half of Modelo it didn’t already own on June 4, setting
up a Mexican showdown with Heineken. The Belgian brewer also
 sold  Modelo’s U.S. business, including a Mexican brewery near
the Texas border, as part of an agreement with the U.S. Justice
Department.  Laura Vallis, a spokeswoman for AB InBev, didn’t
immediately respond to e-mailed requests for comment.  Modelo, Mexico’s largest brewer, still has three breweries
in northern Mexico, which according to Busain is Heineken’s
stronghold.  “The coming years will be very interesting here,” said
Busain, who has been in Mexico since early 2012 following stints
in the Netherlands,  France ,  Egypt , Burundi and Congo, the former
 Zaire .  Gaining Ground  Heineken has been winning back market share it lost to
Modelo in 2011, according to Lauren Torres, an analyst at HSBC
Holdings Plc. Modelo’s domestic volume  slid  0.3 percent last
year after climbing 6.1 percent in 2011.  “There were some mishaps in the first couple of years when
they did lose some market share,” Torres said in a telephone
interview from  New York . “But as a result of new initiatives in
marketing and distribution, they’ve gained it back.”  Marcela Cristo, a spokeswoman for Modelo, declined to
comment.  Mexico’s Federal Competition Commission extended a deadline
to decide whether exclusive beer distribution agreements held by
Heineken and Modelo run afoul of the nation’s antitrust rules. A
decision is now expected around the end of the month.  Antitrust Risk  In a worst-case scenario, a finding against the two beer
giants could lead to an 8 percent volume decline in Mexico for
Heineken and a 12 percent short-term drop in its Mexican
earnings before interest and taxes, according to  Trevor Stirling , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in  London . That
could lead to as much as a 1.5 percent reduction in the Dutch
brewer’s total earnings per share, Stirling wrote in a June 10
research report.  Heineken has been cooperating with the commission’s
investigation, Busain said. He declined to comment on potential
outcomes.  “If there would be a ruling that would dramatically change
the rules of the game, we will be prepared to play the game
according to these new rules,” Busain said. “That would be far
less impactful to our business than a lot of people might
assume.”  Heineken may adapt its U.S. marketing icon for Dos Equis,
the “Most Interesting Man in the World,” to sell beer in
Mexico as well, Busain said.  Beer Taxes  Busain said Heineken is watching closely whether beer taxes
will rise as President Enrique Pena Nieto prepares to propose a
tax overhaul in the second half of the year. Mexico temporarily
raised excise duties on beer to 26.5 percent from 25 percent in
2010 with a plan to lower them to 26 percent in 2013, according
to the  Finance Ministry . The ministry said late last year that
the rate wouldn’t be lowered this year.  An aide with the Finance Ministry’s press office declined
to comment.  “It’s important for us, and I think it’s also important
for the reputation of the Mexican government,” Busain said.
“Further investments will absolutely depend on us knowing that
we operate in an environment where they will not shoot from the
hip.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  