-- Elan Investors Approve Buyback to Force Royalty Bid End
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-06-17T20:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/elan-investors-approve-buyback-to-force-royalty-bid-end.html
Elan Corp. (ELN)  shareholders approved a
share-repurchase program, a vote that Elan says will force
Royalty Pharma to end its unsolicited $6.7 billion takeover bid.  Investors voted against three other transactions including
an investment in  Theravance Inc. (THRX) ’s royalties at their meeting in
Dublin, where both Elan and Royalty Pharma are based, Elan said
in a statement today. Royalty Pharma’s offer has been contingent
on investors rejecting all transactions proposed by Elan
management, according to a ruling by the Irish takeover panel.  The vote may not end Royalty Pharma’s pursuit. Elan said
last week it will invite Royalty Pharma to participate in a
formal sale process with other potential suitors. Royalty Pharma
won’t say whether it will enter the sale process until after a
court hearing scheduled for June 19 in Dublin to review the
takeover panel’s ruling, said Valerie Kvita, a spokeswoman for
the company at Maitland in London.  “Elan’s board threw four punches at Royalty,” said  Erik
Gordon , a business and law professor at the  University of
Michigan  in  Ann Arbor , in an e-mailed statement. “One landed
and sent Royalty back to its corner.”  A revised ruling from the takeover panel could enable
Royalty to proceed with its current offer of $13 in cash for
each American depositary receipt, plus $2.50 if certain sales
and development goals are met. The ADRs fell 1.2 percent to
$13.49 in  New York .  No Assurance  “Royalty Pharma will update Elan stockholders in due
course as to the outcome of the proceedings,” the company said
in a statement today.  There can be no assurance that any sale process will be
fair and realistic, Royalty Pharma CEO Pablo Legorreta said in a
statement on June 14.  “I don’t think anybody knows what to make of all this,”
said Owen Dany, 82, who has held Elan shares for at least 10
years. “The whole thing has been clouded in mystery and half-truths.”  Dany said he arrived late to the meeting because of traffic
due to Michelle Obama’s visit to the city and didn’t get to
vote. Still, he didn’t know which way he would have voted. “I
came to see if there was any fraudulence,” he said.  Mystified Investors  Harry Toher, 66, who has held Elan shares for 25 years, was
as mystified as Dany.  The 88-page shareholder circular “was almost
incomprehensible,” Toher said over coffee with stem ginger
biscuits provided at the meeting. “It’s so massive you need a
wheelbarrow to carry it around.”  Elan shareholders voted against a $1 billion investment in
21 percent of Theravance’s royalties, a $340 million takeover of
Vienna-based AOP Orphan Pharmaceuticals AG, and the sale of an
experimental drug called ELND005 for Alzheimer’s disease.  Legorreta pioneered the drug-royalty business in 1996 with
the founding of Royalty Pharma, which now has $1.4 billion in
revenue and a 96 percent profit margin, according to company
documents. His portfolio contains 38 approved and marketed
pharmaceutical products, mostly market-leading drugs for
critical care and life-threatening diseases.  Acquiring Elan would give Royalty Pharma access to
royalties for Tysabri, an intravenous infusion discovered by
Elan for multiple sclerosis.  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  of Weston,
 Massachusetts , agreed to buy Elan’s stake in the drug for $3.25
billion in cash plus future royalties on Feb. 6.  Tysabri Royalties  Biogen is also testing Tysabri in secondary-progressive MS,
with late-stage clinical trial results expected in 2015. Sales
of the drug may reach $2.03 billion by 2016, according to the
average of 12 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Tysabri would expand Royalty Pharma’s investment in MS
treatments. The company has already bought into another MS drug
in pill form, Tecfidera, which was approved in the U.S. in
March. Many patients will still opt for Tysabri, which remains
the most effective treatment for the condition, as shown by
clinical trial results.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp. and Groton
Partners are advising Royalty Pharma. Elan’s financial advisers
include Davy Corporate Finance, Morgan Stanley, Ondra Partners
and Citigroup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  