-- Telefonica Climbs After Report on AT&T Approach
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-06-17T09:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/telefonica-climbs-after-report-on-at-t-approach.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Spain ’s biggest phone
company, rose the most in three months in  Madrid  trading after
newspaper El Mundo reported that  AT&T Inc. (T)  made a takeover
approach that was rejected by the country’s government.  Telefonica  shares  rose as much as 3.9 percent to 10.42
euros, the most since March 14. The stock gained 2.6 percent at
11:06 a.m. in Madrid, valuing the company at 46.9 billion euros
($62.6 billion). It was the biggest gainer on the benchmark IBEX
35 index today.  Spain’s government blocked the bid because it considers
Telefonica to be strategic to Spain’s economy, El Mundo
reported, citing unidentified sources. AT&T bid 70 billion euros
for Madrid-based Telefonica and offered to take on more than 52
billion euros of  debt , the newspaper said. AT&T backed down
after the government’s rejection, El Mundo said.  “A potential takeover by AT&T wouldn’t be totally crazy as
the company showed an interest in Europe and it holds a
comfortable financial position and it is trading with a large
premium versus European telecommunications companies,” Andres Bolumburu, an analyst at  Banco de Sabadell SA (SAB)  in Madrid, said by
phone. “However, the deal would just be very unlikely because
the government can’t afford to lose such an emblematic and
strategic asset.”  Telefonica didn’t receive an approach or any written or
verbal indication of interest by AT&T, Marisa Navas, a
Telefonica spokeswoman, said in a phone interview today.  Emerging Markets  Spain’s Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria said he met
with AT&T’s chairman at the  Mobile World Congress  in Barcelona
in February, and that he didn’t mention any particular interest
in the Spanish phone company.  “He told me he had an interest in Europe, but he didn’t
say a single word to me on any interest in a bid for
Telefonica,” Soria said in interview with a state-owned
television channel today.  Credit-default swaps insuring Telefonica’s debt for five
years fell as much as 3.1 percent to 218.4 basis points,
signaling an improvement in creditworthiness. The derivatives
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Telefonica’s 750 million-euro 2.736 percent bonds rose 0.2
cents on the euro to 97.6 cents at 10:10 a.m. in Spain.  If reports of AT&T’s approach for Telefonica are true, it
implies AT&T is more interested in  emerging-markets  exposure,
rather than just cheap valuations,  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst
at Sanford C. Bernstein, said today in a report today. Besides
Spain, Telefonica operates in Latin American markets including
Brazil, Colombia and Chile.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  