-- Temasek Sets Up U.K. Unit to Focus on Investments in Europe
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-06-17T04:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/temasek-sets-up-u-k-unit-to-focus-on-investments-in-europe.html
Temasek Holdings Pte,  Singapore ’s
state-owned investment company, said it has set up a U.K.-based
unit that will focus on investments in the region.  John Cryan, president of Europe and co-head of the
portfolio and strategy group, was named as one of the two
directors of the new unit, Financial News reported earlier
today.  Stephen Forshaw , a spokesman for the investment company,
confirmed in an e-mailed statement that the creation of the
“U.K-incorporated entity” will help Cryan’s role.  The share of Temasek’s investments in Europe and North
America increased to 11 percent of its portfolio as of March
2012 from 8 percent in the previous year, according to its
latest annual review, published in July. Temasek paid 1 billion
euros ($1.3 billion) for a 5.04 percent stake in  Repsol SA (REP) , the
Spanish oil company said in March. It agreed to buy a 4.6
percent stake in German chemical maker  Evonik Industries AG (EVK) , a
person familiar with the matter said in March.  The new unit “provides a suitable setup to match our
investment activity in Europe, which will very much be a
continuing focus for us,” Forshaw said in the statement. “The
unit’s creation does not signal a shift in Temasek’s approach to
transactions in the market. We have similar entities in other
countries.”  Temasek “hasn’t made a commitment on that at this time,”
Forshaw said in regards to whether the entity paves the way for
the investment company to open an office in Europe.  The investment firm last year hired Cryan, the former chief
financial officer of UBS AG, as its president for Europe.  The investment company has offices or affiliates in Mexico
City, Sao Paulo, Mumbai, Beijing,  Shanghai , Hong Kong, Chennai
in  India , as well as Ho Chi Minh City and Hanoi, both in
 Vietnam , according to its website.  Government of Singapore Investment Corp ., the city-state’s
other investment company, is planning to open a Sao Paulo office
next year, a person familiar with the matter said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  