-- Lend Lease Slumps Most in 4 Years on Construction: Sydney Mover
-- B y   I a i n   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-06-17T06:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/lend-lease-slumps-most-in-4-years-on-construction-sydney-mover.html
Lend Lease Corp.,  Australia ’s
biggest property developer, slumped the most in more than four
years in Sydney trading after  the company  said that earnings
from its Australian and European construction businesses fell.  Lend Lease declined 7.5 percent to A$8.65 at the close of
trading in Sydney, the biggest drop since Feb. 5, 2009.
Underlying construction markets in Australia and Europe had
softened in the six months through June, Lend Lease said today
in statements to the Australian stock exchange. The firm’s Asian
development, Australian infrastructure development and
Australian property businesses were stronger than a year
earlier, the company said.  “When the infrastructure projects they are working on are
completed over the next two years there is then a question of
will there be replacement projects,” Scott Marshall,
infrastructure analyst at Shaw Stockbroking Ltd., said. “We
only have got one-and-a-half percent profit growth in 2014”
forecast for Lend Lease, he said, adding that he won’t alter his
forecasts based on today’s announcement.  Lend Lease said it will restructure its Australian
construction and infrastructure businesses to create more
competitive operations, according to one of the statements. The
costs of the restructure will be included in the company’s
fiscal year results, Sydney-based Lend Lease said.  The developer also said that it had established the Lend
Lease Jem Partners Fund, which will buy Lend Lease’s 25 percent
stake in Jem, a suburban retail and office development in
 Singapore . The sale would result in a lower effective tax rate
for Lend Lease in fiscal 2013, the company said.  “It is pleasing to be on track to deliver a solid result
in line with market expectations in a tough market
environment,” Lend Lease Chief Executive Steve McCann said in
the statement.  The lower taxes and steady profit forecast “means the
quality of the profit has declined,” Marshall said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Iain McDonald in Sydney at 
 imcdonald7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  