-- Meningitis Outbreak Spurs Effort Before Gay Pride Events
-- B y   S a m u e l   A d a m s
-- 2013-06-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/meningitis-outbreak-spurs-effort-before-gay-pride-events.html
New York City  health officials are
increasing public awareness about a  meningitis  outbreak, urging 
gay men to get vaccinated for the infection in advance of as 
many as 1 million visitors for gay pride events in June.  Though meningitis is not limited to the gay community, a
man in New York City who has sex with men is 50 times more
likely to contract meningitis than the general population,
according to a research paper published in the  Annals of
Internal Medicine  yesterday. Since the onset of the outbreak 
in August 2010, 22 gay men have been diagnosed with the same 
strain of meningococcal disease in New York City, with seven 
fatalities, the paper said.  Twelve of the 22 New York victims tested positive for HIV,
which has helped fuel parallels between the recent outbreak and
the period following the discovery of the AIDS virus in the
early 1980s. Another 4 cases have been reported in  Los Angeles 
since December 2012. The average age of the victims is 34.  “It’s very understandable why people might draw links
between HIV and this outbreak,” Jay Varma, deputy commissioner
for disease control in the New York City Department of Health
and Mental Hygiene, said in an interview. “Both appeared at the
beginning to be exclusively among men who have sex with men,
both are associated with people dying. The main difference is,
of course, in this situation we know exactly what is causing
people to get sick.”  HIV Infected  Many of the victims were HIV positive, making them more
susceptible to the infection, Varma said. Even when someone with
HIV is controlling it through medications, his or her immune
system will never be fully functional, he said. The U.S. Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that those with
HIV take extra precaution against pneumonia and hepatitis B, for
example. Public health authorities may increase the
recommendations for HIV-positive inoculation against meningitis
in light of this outbreak, Varma said.  The last reported case of bacterial meningitis in the New
York gay community was in February, after the city’s Department
of Health and Mental Hygiene began an aggressive immunization
campaign in October 2012.  Meningococcal disease infects the lining around the brain
and spinal cord, and is usually fatal without treatment. The
bacterial infection is treated with antibiotics, though
vaccination against is the most effective way to protect against
meningitis. While viral meningitis is the most common form of
the illness, the rare bacterial meningitis can be deadly,
according to the  National Institutes of Health .  Mass Gatherings  Mass gatherings are often dangerous for meningitis
outbreaks since the disease is transmitted by close social
contact. Vaccinations are now required to attend the Hajj, the
yearly Muslim pilgrimage to  Saudi Arabia , after outbreaks in
1987 and 1992  Dr. Matthew S. Simon, a resident in general preventive
medicine at Weill Cornell Medical College and lead author on the
report released yesterday, said the departments of health of
several cities, including  San Francisco  and Toronto, have warned
gay men traveling to New York for the pride events to get
inoculated against the bacteria.  To diminish the chance of the events promoting a bacterial
spread, the health department has undertaken a campaign of
awareness and vaccination. Events in  Manhattan  are fewer than
two weeks away, but at pride rallies earlier this month in
Queens and Brooklyn officials inoculated 59 and 44 men,
respectively.  Social Networking  What distinguishes this outbreak from other public health
challenges is the role that social and mobile networking tools
have played in its spread and the response, said Varma of the
health department. Websites and geographically based phone
applications to find short-term sexual partners have become
especially popular in the gay community in the past four years.
Because of the inherent anonymity and lack of central location,
it is very difficult to track the spread of an outbreak. But
public health officials have sought to harness the power of
these tools to combat the outbreak.  “When we have had cases that have died, we used their
phones and computers to find out who their friends are to warn
and alert them,” Varma said. “We’ve been very happy to have
partnered with the social media apps to allow us to reach out to
their customers and warn them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Adams in  New York  at 
 sadams69@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  