-- Tepco Minutes Show Executives Voiced Staff Exodus Concerns
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-06-18T06:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/tepco-minutes-show-staff-exodus-concern-amid-soaring-liabilities.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  executives
spent dozens of meetings fretting about the company’s future as
hundreds of younger employees quit over salary cuts after
Fukushima, according to minutes obtained by  Bloomberg News .  “The company could quickly deteriorate” as workers leave
at “a rapidly accelerating rate,” an unidentified executive
said at an Oct. 4 meeting last year of the government-backed
fund designed to bail out the utility. Tepco, as it’s known,
faces an estimated 11 trillion yen ($116 billion) in cleanup
costs from the wrecked Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  The comments are in redacted proceedings of 23 meetings of
the fund’s steering committee held from Oct. 3, 2011, to April
8, 2013, obtained through a freedom of information request.  Almost 1,200 employees voluntarily resigned in the two
years ended in March this year, Tepco Managing Executive Officer
Mamoru Muramatsu said in an April 8 meeting, according to the
minutes. Turnover among employees under 30 accounted for about
half of all voluntary departures, President Naomi Hirose said at
a Nov. 12 meeting.  “The biggest reason is money,” Hirose said, according to
the minutes. “It’s difficult for us to stop them when they say
they have loans and have to take care of kids and so on.”  Shares Decline  The notes offer the first full view of the committee’s
operations and talks among senior officials involved in the
Tokyo-based utility’s revival following the Fukushima earthquake
and tsunami in March 2011. The workings of the committee are
contained in 227 pages, parts of which mask most attendees’
names and agenda items deemed too sensitive to be made public,
according to a letter from the fund provided to Bloomberg as
part of the request.  Tepco shares fell 1.7 percent to close at 538 yen on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange, the  worst performance  among Japan’s 10
regional power companies. The TOPIX Electric Power & Gas Index
rose 1.5 percent while the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average
declined 0.2 percent.  The utility cut annual salaries by 25 percent for managers
and 20 percent for workers under its turnaround plan released in
May last year. The average annual salary of Tepco employees over
the three years ending March 2015 will be reduced to 5.9 million
yen, the utility said in a July 25  statement .  Motivation, Recruiting  “Currently within the Japan energy sector, particularly
within renewables, there is a shortage of talented professionals
and I foresee that increasing numbers of Tepco employees will
realize their market worth and will look for outside
opportunities,” Sean Travers, representative director at
EarthStream K.K., a global recruiting firm specializing in the
energy sector, wrote in an e-mail.  Motivation among remaining Tepco employees may flag because
of uncertainty about how much of the Fukushima cleanup costs
Tepco will be required to shoulder, three unidentified
attendants of the Oct. 4 meeting said, according to the minutes.  Tepco, which has accumulated 2.7 trillion yen in combined
losses for the past three fiscal years, had a workforce of
48,757 on a consolidated basis as of March 31, down about 5,300
from the beginning of fiscal 2011, it said in a May 9 statement.  Kansai Electric Power Co. and Chubu Electric Power Co.,
 Japan ’s second- and third-biggest utilities by generating
capacity, added workers in the two fiscal years to March 31,
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Kansai Electric’s
workforce expanded 2.7 percent to 32,961, while Chubu Electric’s
rose 2.3 percent to 29,774.  Final Costs  The number of workers at Tepco’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi and
Fukushima Dai-Ni plants totaled about 3,000 and 1,300,
respectively, as of early June, spokeswoman Kaoru Suzuki said by
phone, adding that staffing fluctuates depending on operations.
Peak staffing after the disaster totaled 4,000 at Dai-Ichi and
2,250 at Dai-Ni, she said.  Tepco has secured enough workers to continue operations at
the two plants for the time being, she said.  Bullet-point summaries covering the major topics discussed
by the steering committee have been  released  previously but not
the full minutes.  Members of the state-backed Nuclear Damage Liability
Facilitation Fund’s steering committee include  Central Japan
Railway Co. (9022)  Chairman Yoshiyuki Kasai, Dowa Holdings Co. former
Chairman Hirokazu Yoshikawa and Tadashi Maeda, a senior official
at the  Japan Bank for International Cooperation .  In addition to staffing concerns, discussions related to
the size of the utility’s cleanup bill for the Fukushima
disaster arise frequently in the minutes.  Company Health Concerns  Final costs associated with Fukushima are unknown because
decontamination projects are at an early stage, meaning the time
isn’t right to request additional aid from the government, an
unidentified person said during a Nov. 12, 2012, meeting of the
steering committee after Tepco sought government support.  “The biggest concern is that the company will collapse if
we wait until the cost is fixed,” Takashi Shimada, a former
senior official at the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry
who is now an executive officer at Tepco, said in response,
according to the minutes.  The government should review the structure under which
Tepco must pay all decontamination costs, Shimada said at the
time, according to the documents.  Bailout Fund  Tepco had paid 2.21 trillion yen in compensation by late
April this year, it said in an April 30 statement. The utility
asked the government’s bailout fund to increase the compensation
aid by 666 billion yen to 3.79 trillion yen on May 31 after
revising for a fourth time its estimate on payments to those
affected by the disaster.  The March 2011 earthquake and tsunami caused meltdowns and
radiation leaks at the Fukushima plant, forcing about 160,000 to
evacuate and leaving some areas uninhabitable for decades. The
accident also prompted the closing of all but two of the
nation’s nuclear reactors, effectively shutting down an energy
source that once supplied more than a quarter of Japan’s
electricity.  More than 10 trillion yen will be needed to pay
compensation to those affected by the disaster and to clear
areas contaminated by radioactive substances from the Fukushima
plant, Tepco estimated Nov. 7 in a two-year business plan.
Decommissioning the damaged reactors at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
station may “far exceed” the 1 trillion yen allocated by
Tepco, it said at the time.  The government should “promptly consider establishing a
new support framework to handle the huge amount of financial
risk that exceeds the limit under the Nuclear Damage Liability
Facilitation Fund Law and the cost of decommissioning of the
reactors,” Tepco  said  at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  