-- EU Banks Face Targets for Loss-Absorbing Debt in U.K.-Dutch Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-06-17T15:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/eu-banks-face-targets-for-loss-absorbing-debt-in-u-k-dutch-plan.html
Large European Union  banks  would be
forced to meet minimum targets for issuing debt and other
liabilities that could be written down by regulators in a
crisis, under a proposal by the U.K.,  Netherlands  and Finland.  The three countries are urging other EU states to insert
the minimum-target levels into draft rules for imposing losses
on failing lenders’ creditors, according to a document obtained
by Bloomberg News. The targets would apply to banks identified
by regulators as systemically important, while minimum rules for
smaller banks would be drawn up by national regulators.  Systemic banks should be forced to issue loss-absorbing
securities whose value is either equivalent to 15 percent of
their risk-weighted assets or 10 percent of their total capital
and liabilities, according to the document, dated today.
Regulators could choose which number to apply.  The EU’s 27 governments are racing to meet an end-June
deadline to agree on the bank-failure plans, which leaders have
said will be a first step toward more ambitious moves to
centralize  bank  interventions in the 17-nation euro area.  Nations have clashed over key aspects of the law, including
how much flexibility should be left to national regulators to
grant exemptions from writedowns. Finance ministers will meet in
Luxembourg on June 21 in a bid to thrash out a deal.  Unsecured Debt  Under draft plans presented last year by Michel Barnier,
the EU’s financial services chief, losses at a crisis-hit bank
would be absorbed first by wiping out its capital, then writing
down holders of unsecured debt in order of seniority. Holders of
secured debt, such as covered bonds, would be shielded.  Barnier’s proposals would have left it to national
regulators to set minimum target levels for the writedown-eligible securities their banks should issue. While the EU
already requires banks to meet minimum capital requirements, the
new targets would be broader, as they could be met both with
capital and with debt that can absorb losses when the bank gets
into difficulty.  This includes both debt that can be written down by
regulators and bonds contractually designed to incur losses if
certain conditions are met.  Ireland, which holds the rotating presidency of the EU, has
sought to broker a compromise between nations by proposing that
the European Securities and Markets Authority and the European
Commission should review whether it would be better for the
minimum requirements to be set at EU level.  ‘Large Majority’  This compromise approach “has the support of a large
majority of member states,” according to a June 14 document
circulated by Ireland to governments.  The U.K., Netherlands and  Finland  say their plan would
“help improve the credibility of the bail-in tool across
Europe, by ensuring that banks have a minimum amount of
liabilities which can readily be bailed in without creating
financial disruption,” according to the document prepared by
the three nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  