-- EU Said to Raise No Objections to ICE Takeover of NYSE Euronext
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-06-17T17:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/eu-said-to-raise-no-objections-to-ice-takeover-of-nyse-euronext.html
European antitrust regulators have
lodged no objections to  IntercontinentalExchange (ICE)  Inc.’s takeover
of  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  as a decision on the transaction approaches,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter.  While formal approval of the deal, which would give ICE
control of NYSE’s Liffe derivatives exchange in  London , hasn’t
been issued, antitrust officials have communicated no opposition
to the companies, according to a person, who asked not to be
identified because the review is private. A decision from the
European Commission is expected by June 24, the person said.
Shareholders of both companies approved the transaction, which
values NYSE at $10.2 billion, on June 3.  Kelly Loeffler , spokeswoman for ICE, and  Richard Adamonis ,
spokesman for the NYSE, declined to comment on the approval
process. Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the European
antitrust watchdog, declined to comment. Reuters reported
earlier that regulators were poised to clear the deal.  European regulators last month asked users if ICE’s plan to
buy NYSE Euronext would reduce competition in soft-commodities
markets amid concern among traders over fees and trading hours.
The European Commission sought feedback on the impact for
derivatives on cocoa, coffee, sugar and rapeseed and U.S.
equity-index futures, according to a survey with more than 90
questions obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The survey asked clients of ICE and NYSE Euronext about
fees for trading and clearing and the impact on collateral. It
inquires whether respondents also trade on CME, the world’s
largest futures exchange, which competes with both ICE and NYSE
Euronext.  Futures Competition  Atlanta-based ICE offers futures contracts tracking cocoa,
arabica coffee and raw sugar. NYSE’s London-based Liffe
derivatives exchange also offers trading in cocoa, along with
contracts on refined sugar and robusta coffee.  The acquisition by ICE Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Sprecher  shows how fast the American trading landscape been
transformed in the past decade amid regulation to spur
competition and the emergence of electronic markets. The NYSE,
which along with the Nasdaq Stock Market handled almost all U.S.
share transactions for most of its history, now accounts for
less than 30 percent.  Shares of NYSE Euronext increased 2.7 percent to $41.59 at
1:09 p.m.  New York  time, bringing the increase since merger
talks were reported on Dec. 19 to 73 percent.
IntercontinentalExchange, known as ICE, rose 3.5 to $179.
bringing the advance to 40 percent.  Shareholder Votes  The takeover was ratified by 99.7 percent of shares voted
at a special meeting of ICE and about 99 percent at NYSE,
according to statements.  The proposal follows more than two years in which almost no
deals were completed amid a global wave of proposed buyouts that
exceeded $30 billion worth of offers. European regulators
blocked the acquisition of NYSE Euronext by  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) 
in February 2012 while a bid by  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  for
Australia’s market operator was rejected by the government.  ICE, which bought the New York Board of Trade in 2007 and
renamed it ICE Futures U.S., has said it will keep the NYSE
Euronext brand. The merged company will maintain dual
headquarters in Atlanta and New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  