-- European Stocks Advance as Investors Weigh Fed Policy
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-06-17T15:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/european-stock-futures-advance-as-investors-weigh-fed.html
European stocks rose to a one-week
high, rebounding from their longest streak of weekly losses in
14 months, as investors awaited this week’s Federal Reserve
meeting for signs on the pace of stimulus reduction.  Telefonica SA (TEF) , Europe’s most indebted telephone company,
climbed 2.4 percent after a report that AT&T Inc. had been keen
to acquire the company.  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  advanced 2.6 percent after the
world’s largest supplier of power grids named a new chief
executive officer. Saipem SpA plunged to a four-year low after
cutting its 2013 guidance for the second time in six months.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.7 percent to 293.25 at
the close, for the first back-to-back gains this month. The
gauge fell 1.5 percent last week and has lost 5.6 percent since
May 22 when Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the
central bank could pare quantitative easing if the U.S. economy
improves sustainably.  “Markets are looking for peace and stability after the
recent roller-coaster ride,” said John Plassard, who helps
oversee $28 billion as vice president at Mirabaud Securities LLP
in Geneva. “This week could lower the pressure and volatility.
Investors may be getting used to the idea that a very gradual
tapering isn’t such bad news, considering that the economy is
slowly recovering.”  National benchmark indexes climbed in 14 of the 17 western
European markets trading today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 gained 0.4
percent,  France ’s CAC 40 rose 1.5 percent, and  Germany ’s DAX
advanced 1.1 percent.  Fed Stance  The Federal Open Market Committee will hold its policy
meeting tomorrow and the day after, with Bernanke explaining his
stance after the decision on June 19. At stake is the Fed’s
monthly purchase of $85 billion of Treasuries and mortgage
securities and the target rate for overnight lending between
banks, which has been kept at almost zero since December 2008.  A report showed that  manufacturing  in the New York,
northern New Jersey and southern Connecticut region unexpectedly
increased this month. The Fed Bank of New York’s general
economic index rose to 7.84 in June, from minus 1.4 in May.
Economists had predicted a reading of zero, the dividing line
between expansion and contraction.  More than $500 billion  wiped off  the value of U.S. stocks
is providing opportunities for investors who remember that
equities tend to rise when the Fed begins reducing efforts to
stimulate the economy. The  S&P 500 (SPX)  rallied an average 16 percent
over two years the last four times the central bank started
raising interest rates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Trade Talks  Group of Eight leaders gather for a two-day summit in
Northern Ireland today with boosting trade between the U.S. and
the European Union near the top of the agenda. EU governments
last week gave the European Commission a mandate for the
negotiations. A deal will increase global demand by 100-billion
euros ($133 billion), the Brussels-based commission said.  A gauge of European telecommunications companies posted the
 best performance  on the Stoxx 600, gaining 1.6 percent.  Telefonica SA advanced 2.4 percent to 10.27 euros as El
Mundo reported that Spain blocked AT&T Inc.’s takeover bid for
the company because Telefonica is “strategic” to Spain’s
economy. Spokeswoman Marisa Navas said the company didn’t
receive any formal or informal approach from AT&T.  Belgacom SA rose 1.9 percent to 17.53 euros. Exane BNP
Paribas raised its rating of  Belgium ’s largest telephone company
to neutral from underperform. Belgacom’s Scarlet brand last week
introduced an 8 euro-per-month mobile-service plan.  France Telecom SA climbed 3.1 percent to 7.59 euros.
Vodafone Group Plc added 1.5 percent to 182.7 pence.  ABB, Hannover  ABB rose 2.6 percent to 20.71 francs after the company
named as CEO Ulrich Spiesshofer, who oversaw the company’s $1
billion deal to buy California-based Power-One Inc. He will take
over after Joe Hogan steps down on Sept. 15.  Hannover Re added 3.3 percent to 57.30 euros as the fourth-largest reinsurer said it’s sticking to its profit goal for 2013
as the cost of floods in Germany,  Austria  and the Czech Republic
probably won’t exceed its budget for such losses.  Saipem (SPM)  plunged 29 percent to 14.24 euros, for the worst
performance on the Stoxx 600. Italy’s largest oil-and-gas
engineering company cut its forecast for earnings before
interest and tax this year by 650 million euros to 750 million
euros. The company now expects a net loss of 300 million euros
to 350 million euros.  Imagination Technologies Group Plc fell 3.4 percent to
304.7 pence as Barclays Plc cut the U.K. designer of chip
technology for phones and tablets to equal weight, the
equivalent of hold, from overweight. Barclays cited pressure on
smartphone prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  