-- Evergreen Capital Plans Global REIT, Infrastructure Hedge Fund
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-06-17T01:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/evergreen-capital-plans-global-reit-infrastructure-hedge-fund.html
Evergreen  Capital Partners  Ltd.,
which returned 36 percent in its Australian real estate and
infrastructure fund in the year to April, plans a hedge fund to
invest in the assets globally amid demand for higher yields.  The Australian asset manager aims to start the Global REIT
and Infrastructure Absolute Return Fund on July 1 with more than
A$10 million ($9.6 million) and hopes to manage A$50 million
within 12 months, the fund’s managers,  Andrew Smith  and Jonathan
Collett, said in a telephone interview on June 14. They will cap
the fund at A$500 million.  Australian investors are searching for higher-yielding
assets with the central bank lowering the benchmark  interest
rate  to a record-low 2.75 percent and a slowing economy hurting
equity valuations. Evergreen, based in  Melbourne , expects the
strategy to achieve a return of 10 percent to 15 percent.  “The risk profile is somewhere between equities and cash;
cash being zero volatility and the equity market between 15 to
20 percent,” Collett, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. equity
analyst, said. “The fund is focused on capital preservation and
a targeted return of 10-15 percent.”  The new fund’s benchmark or reference is the Australian
three-year bond rate plus 2 percent, they said.  Evergreen, which manages A$200 million through its long-short Australian Equities Return Fund and the long-only AREIT
and Infrastructure Fund, plans a long-short model for the new
fund where a long position in a certain stock is balanced by a
short position in a peer. It will invest in REIT and
infrastructure securities globally that provide exposure to
airports, toll roads, ports, rail, shopping centers, office
assets and industrial estates.  Exploiting Mispricings  “It is largely about exploiting individual stock
mispricings, not taking big bets on the sectors,” Smith said.
“With pretty much all of our trades, we’ll be long and short
within the same market, currency and asset class.”  Evergreen’s long-only AREIT fund, which held stocks
including  Dexus Property Group (DXS) ,  GPT Group (GPT)  and APA Group, has
returned 24 percent since inception in May 2010, according to an
April investment report for the fund. Its Australian Equities
Return Fund has lost 18 percent so far this year with short
positions including in retail stocks and long positions
including in energy shares.  The benchmark S&P/ ASX 200 stock index  has climbed 2.2
percent this year. The Australian economy expanded 2.5 percent,
the slowest annual pace in almost two years, as manufacturers
and builders detracted from growth, pushing traders to price in
further rate cuts. Swap traders are pricing in a 80 percent
chance of another interest-rate cut by end of the year.  Sophisticated Investors  Evergreen’s new fund is aimed at “sophisticated”
investors, including family offices and broking firms’ private
wealth networks, with the response so far “positive,” Smith
said.  Minimum investment in the fund is A$50,000 with a
management fee of 1.5 percent a year of the net asset value at
the end of the month, according to the fund’s information
memorandum. Investment restrictions mean not more than 15
percent of the value of the fund can be in securities of any one
entity.  Treasury Group Ltd. (TRG) , which owns shares in a number of funds
managers, said in May 2012 it had purchased a 30 percent stake
in Evergreen Capital Partners for an initial A$1.4 million plus
a further amount that is dependent on Evergreen meeting certain
performance targets before June 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  