-- Ex-UBS Trader Hayes Said to Face Libor Charge This Week
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-06-17T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/ex-ubs-trader-hayes-said-to-face-u-k-libor-charges-this-week.html
Tom Hayes, the former  UBS AG (UBSN) 
derivatives trader at the center of a global investigation into
manipulation of benchmark interest rates, may face criminal
charges in the U.K. as soon as this week, two people familiar
with the investigation said.  Hayes may be charged by the U.K. Serious Fraud Office with
conspiring to rig the London interbank offered rate, said the
people, who requested anonymity because the probe isn’t public.
Hayes has already been charged in the U.S., which is running a
parallel criminal probe.  Hayes was arrested in a U.K. criminal investigation on Dec.
11 and charged by the U.S. Justice Department the following day.
The U.S. charge was made public on Dec. 19, the same day UBS was
fined a record $1.5 billion by U.S., British and Swiss
regulators for trying to rig Libor and similar benchmarks.  David Green, the director of the SFO, said June 5 that
“significant developments” in the case are coming by the end
of the quarter.  Richard Morton, a UBS spokesman, and SFO spokesman David Jones declined to comment on the probe. Lydia Jonson, Hayes’s
London lawyer, didn’t immediately respond yesterday to phone and
e-mail messages seeking comment on it.  $2.5 Billion Fines  Global regulators have fined UBS,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc  about $2.5 billion in the past year
for distorting Libor and similar benchmarks. At least a dozen
firms remain under investigation around the world. Last week,
 Singapore ’s monetary authority censured 20 banks for attempting
to fix interest rate levels and ordered them to set aside as
much as $9.6 billion.  Terry Farr and Jim Gilmour, who worked at the brokerage
firm RP Martin Holdings Ltd., were arrested by London police in
the same probe. Hayes, who was 33 at the time of his arrest in
December, has been charged in the U.S. with wire fraud and
antitrust violations.  The SFO’s Green, in the comments to fraud lawyers this
month, said the probe is focusing on British nationals at
British banks, noting “Libor begins with  London .”  “We are moving hard and fast” and the agency has doubled
the number of people working on the case to 60, he said.  The prospect of criminal charges being filed against Hayes
in the U.K. wouldn’t necessarily affect charges already filed
against him in the U.S., said John Coffee, a professor at
Columbia University School of Law in New York.  Extradition Slow  “There’s no double jeopardy here,” Coffee said yesterday
in a phone interview. “The British government would be well
within its rights if it wanted to prosecute promptly. He’s in
the U.K. and extradition is a slow process. I’m not sure the
U.S. would look askance if the U.K. moved first.”  According to the U.S. Justice Department, Hayes colluded
with brokers, counterparts at other firms and his colleagues to
manipulate the rate.  Hayes “globally impacted transactions and financial
products tied to yen Libor,” defrauding counterparties
including New York-based financial institutions, the Justice
Department said last year. The trader led a “massive effort”
to manipulate yen Libor, at times daily to profit from his bets
on derivatives, according to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, which was one of the regulators that has levied
Libor fines.  In an electronic message in March 2008, Hayes asked a UBS
rate-setter for a high three-month yen fixing. The lender’s
trading records show that Hayes had a trading position on March
17 that would profit by $2.1 million if the rate increased by a
single basis point, the Justice Department said.  Dominant Trader  Hayes was “widely considered the dominant trader in the
 Tokyo  yen swaps market because he traded in enormous volumes and
accepted large trading risks,” the CFTC said. “Brokers were
eager to develop relationships with the senior yen trader in an
effort to obtain a piece of his business.”  He also allegedly worked with interdealer brokers to help
persuade other rate-setting banks to make favorable submissions.
Interdealer brokers line up buyers and sellers of securities and
take a percentage from every trade. As interbank lending
declined with the start of the financial crisis in late 2007,
submitters increasingly relied on information from the brokers
in determining what rates to submit, the Justice Department
said.  Citigroup Dismissal  Hayes joined UBS in 2006 and worked at the Swiss lender
until 2009, when he joined  Citigroup Inc. (C)  He was dismissed by
Citigroup less than a year later for involvement in suspected
rate-rigging, a person with knowledge of the matter said in
October. He worked at Edinburgh-based  RBS (RBS)  from 2001 to 2003.  One of the highest-earning traders at UBS, Hayes generated
about $40 million in revenue for the bank in 2007, $80 million
in 2008 and $116 million in 2009 before he left to join
Citigroup, according to the CFTC, which didn’t identify Hayes by
name.  The “volume of unlawful requests submitted by one
particular senior yen derivatives trader in Tokyo dwarfed them
all,” the agency said.  From 2006 to 2009, he made at least 800 requests for
specific rate submissions to the firm’s yen-Libor rate-setters,
about 100 to traders at other banks, and 1,200 to interdealer
brokers, according to the CFTC. Yen Libor reflects how much
banks charge each other for loans in the Japanese currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  