-- Mexico Peso Volatility Rises to a Year High Before Fed Decision
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-06-17T15:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/mexico-peso-volatility-rises-to-a-year-high-before-fed-decision.html
Mexican peso volatility climbed to
its highest level in a year on concern the Federal Reserve will
reduce a stimulus program that has reduced U.S. yields.  One-month historical volatility, a measure of the magnitude
of the peso’s fluctuations during the period, rose to 13.8
percent at 10:34 a.m. in Mexico City, the highest on a closing
basis since June 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency fell 0.2 percent to 12.7361 per dollar.  Mexico’s peso is the most-volatile major currency in Latin
America today as signs of recovery in the U.S., the Latin
American nation’s biggest trading partner, stoke speculation
that the Fed will scale back unprecedented asset purchases known
as quantitative easing. Confidence among U.S. homebuilders
surged in June to the highest level in seven years, a report
indicated today.  “It’s the effect that the possibility of the Fed beginning
to modify its monetary policy is having,”  Rafael Camarena , an
economist at Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico SAB in Mexico
City, said in a telephone interview. “That’s what’s causing the
market to adjust.”  The peso has lost more than 3 percent against the dollar
since Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said May 22 that U.S. policy
makers could scale back stimulus efforts if the employment
outlook shows “sustainable improvement.” Bernanke will hold a
press conference on June 19 after the central bank completes its
two-day policy meeting.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index
of U.S. builder sentiment climbed eight points this month to 52,
the highest level since March 2006, the Washington-based group
reported today.  The yields on benchmark government peso bonds maturing in
2024 rose six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 5.26
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price fell
0.66 centavo to 140.89 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in  Mexico  City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  