-- FDIC’s Complex-Firms Chief Exits as Banks Write New Wills
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-06-17T22:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/fdic-s-complex-firms-chief-exits-as-banks-write-new-wills.html
Jim Wigand, who oversees the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp.’s Dodd-Frank Act powers to dismantle the
most complex U.S. banks in a crisis, is stepping down next
month.  Wigand, the FDIC’s chief of oversight for complex financial
firms, departs July 28, according to the agency. He’ll be
succeeded by Arthur J. Murton, director of the agency’s Division
of Insurance and Research.  The change will come about two months before the biggest
banks must submit a second round of living wills mandated by the
2010 financial-regulation overhaul. The FDIC and Federal Reserve
are authorized to insist the wills be credible plans for
bankruptcies without government bailouts or disruptions to the
financial system. The regulators can force restructurings and
divestitures on firms submitting plans deemed insufficient.  “We received these first set of plans in 2012 and that was
what I characterize as a learning experience for both the firms
as well as the FDIC and the Fed,” Wigand, 56, said in a Senate
hearing last month. The agency issued guidance to the banks in
April demanding more details of how they could avoid obstacles
to being resolved in bankruptcy court. Wigand said firms that
don’t answer sufficiently face remediation from the FDIC.  The next living-will deadline is Oct. 1 for the largest
banks, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp.  and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  A next tier of smaller banks must file
their initial round of plans by July 1, followed by a third tier
of banks at the end of the year. Non-bank financial firms that
are designated systemically important by the Financial Stability
Oversight Council will also be required to file the plans.  Advising Gruenberg  Wigand worked for 30 years at the FDIC and at the
Resolution Trust Corp., which liquidated thrifts in the 1980s
and ’90s.  “Our agency and country have benefited greatly as a result
of his outstanding work,” FDIC Chairman  Martin Gruenberg , said
in a statement issued by the agency. Wigand will continue
working as a senior adviser to Gruenberg until Sept. 30,
according to agency’s statement, which included no information
about his plans.  Murton will be succeeded by Diane Ellis, one of his a
deputy directors, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 