-- Fiat Said to Get $2.7 Billion Refinancing Before Chrysler Deal
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-06-17T12:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/fiat-said-to-get-2-7-billion-refinancing-before-chrysler-deal.html
Fiat SpA (F) ,  Italy ’s biggest
manufacturer, will raise a 2 billion-euro ($2.7 billion) loan
ahead of its planned merger with Chrysler Group LLC, according
to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Nine banks have agreed to participate in the three-year
credit line, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the terms are private. Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas SA,
Citigroup Inc., Credit Agricole SA, Intesa Sanpaolo SpA,
 Mediobanca SpA (MB) , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Societe
Generale SA and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  are due to sign agreements to
participate in the deal on June 21, the people said.  The debt, which includes two one-year extension options,
replaces a 1.95 billion-euro credit facility due July next year
and will be offered to a wider group of lenders later this
month, the people said.  The Italian automaker may raise as much as $10 billion from
banks to increase its stake in Chrysler and to refinance both
companies’ debt, people familiar with the matter said last
month. The Turin-based company has built up a 58.5 percent stake
in Chrysler, and is in talks to buy the remainder owned by the
United Auto Workers’ retiree health-care trust, Chief Executive
Officer  Sergio Marchionne  has said.  A spokesman for Fiat, who asked not to be named citing
company policy, declined to comment on the financing.  Chrysler is also seeking to refinance its $2.95 billion
 term loan  at a lower rate of interest, cutting the margin to 3
percentage points, or 300 basis points, more than the London
interbank offered rate, from 4.75 percentage points, a person
with knowledge of the transaction said June 12. Citigroup Inc.,
Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Corp. and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. are arranging the debt.  Marchionne said earlier this month he wants combine Fiat
and Chrysler “as soon as possible.” He may create a new
company in the U.S., merge Fiat and Chrysler into it, and issue
shares in the combined entity, a person familiar with the matter
said last month. As part of the refinancing, Chrysler may gain
access to Fiat’s  credit line , people said in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  