-- Fidelity’s Anthony Bolton to Stop Managing China Fund
-- B y   D a r r e n   B o e y   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-06-17T13:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/fidelity-s-anthony-bolton-to-retire-from-china-fund-next-year.html
Anthony Bolton  will give up managing
the Fidelity China Special Situations fund and return to
retirement after it failed to match the returns of the U.K.
trust that made his reputation.  Bolton, 63, will be succeeded by Dale Nicholls, manager of
Fidelity’s Pacific Fund since 2003, Fidelity said in a statement
today. The handover will be completed in April 2014, almost four
years after China Special Situations became the nation’s largest
equity fund to be listed on the  London  Stock Exchange.  Over 28 years running the U.K.-focused Fidelity Special
Situations fund, Bolton delivered average annual returns of 19.5
percent, transforming a 10,000 pound ($15,720) investment in
1979 into 1.49 million pounds in 2007, according to Morningstar
Inc. After coming out of retirement to start  China  Special
Situations in April 2010, the  fund  has lost about 15 percent,
matching the MSCI China Index’s decline in British pound terms.  “Anthony has had a fantastic career, he is rightly
regarded as one of the best active managers of recent decades,”
said Mark Dampier, a funds analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown Plc in
Bristol,  England . “His China fund’s performance in recent years
has tarnished this record slightly.”  Shares in Bolton’s China trust, which has 552 million
pounds of assets, closed at a record 11 percent  discount  to its
net asset value on June 12, compared with a 13 percent premium
in October 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
fund plunged 38 percent in 2011, while the MSCI China fell 20
percent in pound terms.  China Slide  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  has slumped 34 percent since
the start of 2010 as China’s central bank raised  interest rates 
and banks’ reserve ratios to curb inflation. The benchmark gauge
has declined 5 percent this year amid signs the nation’s
economic growth is faltering. Industrial production rose a less-than-forecast 9.2 percent in May from a year earlier and export
growth was at a 10-month low, National Bureau of Statistics data
showed on June 9.  Bolton forged a reputation as a contrarian investor who
specialized in finding undervalued European stocks. British
newspapers dubbed him the “quiet assassin” after he led a 2003
revolt by minority shareholders to block the appointment of
 Michael Green  as chairman of ITV Plc. He joined with several
shareholders in demanding that ITV appoint an outsider as
chairman following a 4 billion-pound merger deal that combined
the U.K.’s two biggest commercial television broadcasters.  Split Fund  Nicholls will assume full responsibility for China Special
Situations on April 1, 2014, Fidelity said. When Bolton
announced his first retirement from  money management  in 2006,
his fund was split between its U.K. and global assets and he
stayed on for a yearlong hand-over period for the two managers
who succeeded him.  “As part of an orderly handover of the portfolio, Anthony
and Dale will work together and discuss portfolio ideas
regularly,” Fidelity said in the statement. “Like Anthony,
Dale is a bottom-up stock picker with a growth bias and a
significant tilt towards smaller and mid-cap companies.”  Fidelity China Special Situations (FCSS)  has climbed 2.1 percent
this year, while the MSCI China fell 8.4 percent in pound terms,
data compile by Bloomberg show. Shares in the China fund rose
0.3 percent to 86.15 pence at 2:45 p.m. in London today. The
MSCI China index gained 0.9 percent today.  “The fund’s performance this year has been markedly better
than the first two years,” said Jackie Beard, the London-based
director of closed-end fund research at Morningstar Inc., which
placed its rating on Bolton’s fund under review today. “We see
no reason for existing investors to panic as this is merely
confirmation of what we knew was on the horizon. We will be
assessing Nicholls’ track record and management ahead of meeting
him in July.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darren Boey in  Hong Kong  at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  