-- FIFA’s Blatter Says Brazil Protests Use Soccer as ‘Platform’
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-06-17T15:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/fifa-s-blatter-says-brazil-protesters-using-soccer-as-platform-.html
Sepp Blatter, president of soccer
ruling body FIFA, said demonstrators are exploiting the sport by
staging protests at the Confederations Cup in  Brazil .  Security forces have used teargas to break up disruptions
on the first two days of the two-week tournament, which is a
warm-up event for next year’s World Cup. Brazilian President
Dilma Rousseff and Blatter were jeered and whistled at the
tournament-opening game in Brasilia two days ago.  “Football is there to bring people together,” Blatter
said today in an interview in Rio de Janeiro. “This is clear
and I know a little bit about the protests that are here.”  Blatter added that “people are using the platform of
football and the international media presence to make certain
demonstrations. You will see today is the third day of the
competition this will calm down. It will be a wonderful
competition.”  Brazilians have been protesting projects linked to the
World Cup, including the 7 billion reais ($3.3 billion) in
public money being spent on 12 stadiums.  Protesters have marched with banners and chanted slogans in
host cities, and in Brasilia about 200 people burned tires and
blocked traffic near the stadium that hosted the tournament’s
opening match.  “For those that think they can cause any harm or damage
the event, they will face the determination of the Brazilian
government,” Sports Minister Aldo Rebelo told delegates at the
FT/IFA Business of Football Summit in Rio. “The games will
happen. We won’t tolerate that any type of organization can
disrupt the events. Demonstrations can be tolerated within
limits.”  Police also used teargas at a game in Rio yesterday.
Protesters say money earmarked for the World Cup would be better
spent on social programs to ease inequality in the world’s
sixth-largest economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  