-- Finmeccanica Says Superjet Pact Must Be Restructured or End
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-06-17T15:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/finmeccanica-says-superjet-pact-must-be-restructured-or-end-1-.html
Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  said its Superjet
regional plane venture with  Russia ’s Sukhoi must be restructured
or abandoned, calling the current arrangement unsatisfactory.  “We have to consider a potentially different collaboration
with our Russian partners,” Finmeccanica Chief Executive Officer
Alessandro Pansa said in a briefing at the  Paris Air Show .  The Superjet 100 plane has struggled with quality and
production issues, with the first aircraft for a western
customer -- the Interjet discount unit of  Mexico ’s ABC
Aerolineas SA -- due for delivery this week.  Finmeccanica may quit the partnership even at the cost of
losses if Sukhoi parent United Aircraft Corp. doesn’t agree to
changes, though it would be preferable to modify the pact rather
than scrap it, Pansa said. The move comes as the CEO seeks to
restructure the debt-laden Italian company to revive earnings.  UAC said that it and Finmeccanica are currently looking at
ways to further develop a relationship that’s “reaching a new
level” with the start of deliveries to an overseas client.  “This is a good time to consider opportunities to increase
the effectiveness of our partnership,” it said in an e-mail.  The two companies manage the project via separate ventures,
with one in charge of building the planes and the other support.  “What we’re trying to do is have a more integrated approach
between the Russian and the Italian teams,” said Giuseppe Giordo,
CEO of the Alenia Aermacchi unit involved on the Italian side.  Pansa said commercial aircraft remain a core activity for
Rome-based Finmeccanica amid the strategic review, and that he’d
support a move by ATR -- its turboprop venture with European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. -- to build a 90-seat model.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in Paris at   rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  