-- Ford Pushes New Models Over Rentals for European Revival
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-06-17T20:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/ford-pushes-new-models-over-rentals-for-european-revival.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  is counting on new
models such as the EcoSport compact sport-utility vehicle to
help reduce reliance on low-margin sales to rental-car companies
in Europe to stem losses in the region.  Ford plans to lower its share of deliveries to rental
fleets to less than the European industry’s 13 percent average
by early 2015 from 17 percent now, Roelant de Waard, the U.S.
company’s head of sales for the region, said in a telephone
interview. The carmaker plans to continue boosting the
proportion of sales to retail and company-fleet buyers, which
typically order cars at higher prices.  Ford is in the midst of an overhaul of its model lineup,
which will include a redesigned Mondeo mid-size sedan by late
next year, when the company foresees the European market
beginning to rebound from a six-year slump. The Dearborn,
Michigan-based  automaker  forecasts losses in the region will
widen to about $2 billion this year from $1.75 billion in 2012.  “We’re expecting some improvement next year” in
industrywide demand, de Waard said from Ford’s European
headquarters in Cologne,  Germany . He forecast that sales in
Ford’s main markets in the region will rise to about 14 million
vehicles in 2014 from roughly 13.5 million this year.  Ford rose 1.2 percent to $15.55 at the close in  New York .
The shares have gained 20 percent this year, topping a 15
percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  May’s Deliveries  In May, Ford’s deliveries fell 2.2 percent to 99,400
vehicles in 19 European markets stretching from  Portugal  to
 Finland . The decline, which was less than a 6.2 percent
industrywide drop across the region, lifted the company’s market
share in May to 8.3 percent, the highest level for the month
since 2009, from 8 percent a year earlier, Ford said in a
statement today.  “It’s fair to say that with the newness and the freshness
of our model lineup that we expect growth” in Ford’s market
share in  Europe  next year, De Waard said.  The European auto market is likely to remain at current
levels through the rest of 2013, with stable or deteriorating
pricing for the industry as competitors shift more vehicle sales
to rental companies, De Waard said.  The proportion of Ford’s deliveries to retail buyers was
slightly ahead of other European automakers through the first
five months of 2013, and its share to fleet buyers is in line
with the average, De Waard said. Ford’s rental sales mix has
declined by 2 percentage points from 19 percent a year earlier.
Its share of deliveries to dealers’ demonstration fleets shrank
by 5 percentage points to 11 percent to trail the industry
average of 18 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  