-- G-8 Commits to Shrinking Bank Secrecy in Anti-Tax-Evasion Push
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-06-18T11:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/g-8-leaders-seek-anti-tax-evasion-pledge-to-limit-bank-secrecy.html
Group of Eight leaders agreed to
work for “a new global standard” to stamp out bank secrecy and
pledged to deter multinational companies’  tax-avoidance 
strategies, according to a draft joint statement.  On the second day of talks in Enniskillen,  Northern
Ireland , G-8 nations adopted a common approach to standards for
cross-border disclosure and tax-data sharing among authorities,
saying they “commit to establish the automatic exchange of
information between tax authorities” to shine a light on how
companies and individuals are meeting tax requirements.  “We will work to create a common template for
multinationals to report to tax authorities where they make
their profits and pay their taxes across the world,” according
to the draft distributed today after a night of bargaining by
aides to the eight heads of state and government.  G-8 countries agreed to publish “national action plans to
make information on who really owns and profits from companies
and trusts available to tax collection and law enforcement
agencies, for example, through central registries of company
beneficial ownership,” according to the draft.  Governments’ efforts to close down avenues for
multinationals to channel profits through the lowest-tax
locations and to crack down on  tax evasion  reflect a push to
secure revenue amid financial turmoil and sluggish growth.  ‘Cracking Down’  “Essentially, the goal of cracking down on tax avoidance,
bringing greater transparency to it, is something that we have
pursued in the  United States ,”  Ben Rhodes , deputy national
security adviser to President  Barack Obama , told reporters late
yesterday.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , who is hosting the G-8
meeting, has prodded companies to review what he called
“aggressive tax-avoidance strategies,” which he called a
“moral issue” in a Bloomberg interview last week.  European nations are moving toward a common standard on
tax-data reporting in response to new requirements for doing
business with the U.S. The campaign has sparked new interest
from skeptics like Luxembourg and Austria. The push has gained
further momentum as the EU seeks breathing room within its own
commitments to slash budget deficits, which have hampered growth
across the 27-nation bloc.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
urged leaders to cooperate in a report on tax avoidance prepared
for today’s summit. The report finds a clear legal basis for
comprehensive automatic exchange with strict safeguards
protecting confidentiality.  “Offshore tax evasion is a global issue requiring global
solutions -- otherwise the issue is simply relocated, rather
than resolved,” the OECD report said. “A proliferation of
inconsistent models is in nobody’s interest.”  Tax Measures  The U.K. has rolled out its own anti-tax evasion measures.
Britain’s network of overseas territories and dependencies on
June 15 agreed to Cameron’s request that they sign up to
extended transparency rules aimed at preventing tax evasion.  The islands around Britain known as the Crown Dependencies
-- Jersey, Guernsey and the  Isle of Man  -- joined the British
Virgin Islands, Bermuda,  Cayman Islands , Gibraltar, Anguilla,
Montserrat and the  Turks and Caicos Islands  in agreeing to
support an automatic tax information exchange begun by the U.K.,
Germany, France, Italy and Spain.  “It is important we are getting our house in order,”
Cameron said in a statement after the talks at his office in
 London . “It is a very positive step forward and it means that
Britain’s voice in the G-8 and the campaigning on this issue
around the world for proper taxes, proper companies and proper
laws will be stronger.”  The U.K. will establish its own register of beneficial
ownership because many companies use such structures to avoid
taxes, Cameron said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Enniskillen, Northern Ireland, at  aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Enniskillen, Northern Ireland, at  rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  