-- G-8 Leaders See Worst Over for World Economy After Summit
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-06-18T07:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/g-8-leaders-see-worst-over-for-world-economy.html
Leaders of the Group of Eight
nations said the worst has passed for the global economy
following summit talks on promoting employment and growth.  While the economic outlook is subdued, risks have abated,
the G-8 said in a statement early today, the halfway point of a
two-day meeting in Enniskillen, Northern Ireland.  “Global economic prospects remain weak, though downside
risks have reduced thanks in part to significant policy actions
taken in the U.S., euro area and  Japan ,” according to the
statement.  G-8 leaders are under pressure to spur growth and reduce
unemployment as the unexpected slowing of the Chinese economy in
the first quarter sparked concerns of a weakening global
expansion. The euro-area economy is shrinking for a second year
and the U.K. is emerging from a double-dip recession amid
investor concern that the U.S. Federal Reserve is preparing to
unwind stimulus.  Any new optimism “is yet to be translated fully into
broader improvements in economic activity and employment in most
advanced economies,” according to the G-8 statement.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel said European leaders
agreed that “we have overcome the manifest crisis of
confidence, but that a huge amount of work still lies ahead.”
Growth requires “sound finances” and structural change in EU
economies, she told reporters late yesterday.  Merkel Campaign  Merkel expressed concern about Japan’s effort to end two
decades of economic stagnation, which includes bond-buying by
the  Bank of Japan  and $102 billion in planned stimulus spending
by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. Merkel, who met Abe separately at
the summit, said Japan’s budget deficit “surely has to be
scaled back in the medium term.”  Merkel, who leads Europe’s biggest economy, is running for
a third term in  Germany ’s Sept. 22 election on a platform of
preserving the euro in return for economic overhauls and debt
reduction throughout the 17-nation currency union.  Underscoring the fragile outlook, the International
Monetary Fund trimmed its 2013 global growth forecast in April
to 3.3 percent from 3.5 percent. The estimate for 2014 is 4
percent as the U.S. picks up and the euro area begins expanding
again.  In search of a recipe for growth while trimming budget
deficits, leaders announced yesterday the start of talks next
month on a trade deal between the U.S. and the European Union,
which Cameron said could be the biggest bilateral deal ever.
Merkel said she envisioned an agreement within “a few years.”  Reaching a deal “is going to be a priority of mine and my
administration,” President  Barack Obama  said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Enniskillen, Northern Ireland at
   kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Enniskillen, Northern Ireland at
   aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  