-- German Stocks Advance as Investors Await Fed Meeting
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-06-17T11:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/german-stocks-advance-as-investors-await-fed-meeting.html
German stocks  advanced for a second
day as investors awaited this week’s U.S. Federal Reserve
meeting for signals on stimulus measures.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  gained 2.5 percent after Bank of America
Corp. reiterated its buy rating on the shares.  Solarworld AG (SWV) 
jumped the most since March 2011 after a report that Qatar Solar
Technologies will buy a stake in the company.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  added 1.4 percent to 8,239.68 at 12:38 a.m.
in Frankfurt. The equity benchmark lost 1.5 percent last week on
concern that the Fed will start to taper its bond-purchase
program in September. The HDAX Index rose 1.3 percent today.  “Once again investors are awaiting decisions from this
week’s Fed meeting,” Marcus Silbe, an analyst at Close Brothers
Seydler Research AG in Frankfurt, wrote in an e-mail. “Most
traders expect that the Fed will continue to calm the market,
which in turn would lower the high volatility seen over the last
few weeks. While the macro data is mixed, the assumption is that
the Fed will not leave its path of stimulus.”  The Fed will hold its two-day policy meeting this week,
with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  scheduled to speak after the
central bank’s decision on June 19.  Group of Eight leaders gather for a two-day summit in
Northern Ireland today, focusing on the benefits of a trade
agreement with the U.S. as they seek a path to economic growth
while curbing their debt.  Volkswagen Gains  Volkswagen, Europe’s biggest automaker, advanced 2.5
percent to 163.05 euros. Bank of America said the carmaker’s
earnings momentum has reached an inflection point amid high
confidence and an upbeat outlook for China.  Solarworld, the world’s fourth-largest solar-panel maker,
jumped 27 percent to 86.7 euro cents. Qatar Solar Technologies
will buy a stake of about 30 percent in the company for 30
million euros ($40 million), with most of the remaining shares
going to creditors,  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  reported, citing
unidentified people in the financial industry.  Solarworld’s debt will be cut to 400 million euros from 1
billion euros, according to the report.  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG advanced 2.6 percent to 33.22
euros. Chief Executive Officer Thomas Ebeling said he wanted the
broadcaster to remain independent after the exit of its two
biggest shareholders, Sueddeutsche Zeitung reported, citing an
interview.  Hannover Re (HNR1)  climbed 3.5 percent to 57.20 euros. The world’s
fourth-largest reinsurer reiterated its 2013 net income
forecast, saying the recent floods in  Central Europe  posed no
threat to its guidance.  Munich Re , the world’s largest reinsurer, gained 2.2
percent to 144.70 euros. A gauge of insurance companies was the
second-biggest gainer on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the DAX was 29 percent lower than the average of the past 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  