-- Portuguese, Irish Bonds Advance as Investors Await Fed Meeting
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-06-17T15:46:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/german-bunds-fall-amid-fed-speculation-as-italian-bonds-gain.html
Portuguese bonds rose for a second
day as investors bet Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
will seek to ease concern a reduction of debt buying will roil
financial markets.  Irish bonds advanced for a fourth session as investors
sought out higher-yielding assets, while German bunds
underperformed most of their euro-area peers. The Fed’s Open
Market Committee  starts  a two-day meeting tomorrow to review
monetary policy. The Netherlands sold 2.5 billion euros ($3.33
billion) of bills, while  France  auctioned 7.6 billion euros of
short-term securities.  “The market is looking at the Fed meeting and that is
driving the direction,” said Alessandro Giansanti, a senior
interest-rate strategist at ING Bank NV in Amsterdam. “If the
Fed indicates it is inclined to keep the expansionary monetary
policy then that will be beneficial for the periphery”
referring to the bonds of the euro area’s higher debt and
deficit nations.  Portugal ’s 10-year yield fell eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 6.23 percent at 4:44 p.m.  London  time after
dropping 22 basis points on June 14. The 4.95 percent bond due
in October 2023 gained 0.535, or 5.35 euros per 1,000-euro face
amount, to 90.44.  Ireland’s 10-year yields declined three basis points to
3.91 percent.  Fed Purchases  Bernanke said on May 22 the Fed could reduce its $85
million a month purchases of Treasuries and mortgage-backed
securities if the employment outlook shows sustained
improvement. A June 7 report showed American employers took on
more workers than economists forecast in May, with payrolls
rising 175,000. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
analysts called for a gain of 163,000.  “The focus is on the FOMC and the Bernanke press
conference,” said  Peter Schaffrik , head of European interest-rate strategy at Royal Bank of Canada in London. “The market is
looking for a relatively dovish Bernanke. If he does come out
dovish then bund yields will probably go a little bit lower from
here. If he doesn’t, then bund yields will go back to the top of
the range.”  Germany ’s 10-year bund yield was little changed at 1.52
percent. The additional yield, or spread, investors demand to
hold Portuguese 10-year bonds over equivalent bunds shrank eight
basis points to 470 basis points.  “For now it is all this tapering talk but now the market
has come to terms with it we’re going to have a relief rally
this week,” Alan Higgins, chief investment officer at Coutts &
Co. in London, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Countdown” with  Mark Barton . “We will see a bond relief
rally, especially in the so-called spread product.”  ‘Overweight Duration’  BNP Paribas Investment Partners said investors should bet
that German bund yields will decline.  “We think the recent rise in yields has lifted them above
fair value,” Joost van Leenders, who helps oversee $657 billion
as a strategist in Amsterdam, wrote in a June 13 note to clients
sent out today. “We are moving overweight duration again across
our portfolios.”  Volatility on Dutch bonds was the highest among euro-area
markets today followed by those of Portugal and Ireland,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  Portugal’s bonds returned 4.4 percent this year through
June 14, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Ireland’s
securities earned 6.5 percent, while Germany’s fell 0.7 percent,
the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  