-- Google’s Waze Deal Said to Give BlueRun 19-Fold Return
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   E m i l y   C h a n g
-- 2013-06-17T15:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/google-s-waze-deal-said-to-give-bluerun-20-fold-return.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s $1.1 billion
acquisition of Waze Inc. produced a 19-fold return for BlueRun
Ventures, the biggest investor in the mobile-mapping company, a
person familiar with the matter said.  Led by John Malloy, BlueRun had a stake of 15 percent in
Waze that was worth more than $165 million at the time of sale,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public. The firm invested a total of $8.7
million in Waze, starting in 2008, Malloy said.  Waze is the first investment for BlueRun that’s fetched
more than $1 billion since PayPal Inc., another portfolio
company, was acquired by  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  in 2002. BlueRun, which
changed its name from Nokia Venture Partners in 2005, has raised
$540 million for its last two funds, Malloy said. About 65
percent of the portfolio is in mobile startups like Waze, which
was founded in  Israel , he said.  “Mobile is really at the epicenter of everything,” Malloy
said in a June 13 interview on “Bloomberg West.” It’s “the
most global of all technology sectors. It’s also the most
horizontal, so it’s impacting many many different vertical
industries,” he said.  Out of China  Malloy said BlueRun’s next breakout companies will probably
come out of  China , where the firm has invested in startups
including social-shopping site Meilishuo and mobile-classified
service Ganji. He said he’ll be raising additional funds,
including one centered around Asian opportunities.  Google’s purchase of Waze, announced on June 11, comes as
the world’s largest search engine seeks to recover ground in
mobile after its mapping tool was surpassed by  Facebook Inc. (FB)  as
the most popular U.S. smartphone application. The social-networking service had previously been in talks to acquire Waze,
according to people familiar with the matter, who asked not to
be identified because the discussions were private.  Waze joins a crop of Web-based startups, including Yammer
Inc. and Tumblr Inc., that have been acquired in the past year
for more than $1 billion. Those deals are poised to help bolster
the returns for early-stage funds that have struggled to make
money since the dot-com bubble burst in the early 2000s.  As of the end of last year, venture firms had earned 6.9
percent on average annually during the past decade, trailing all
of the major U.S. stock indexes, including the average 7.1
percent yearly gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
according to  Cambridge Associates LLC . For early-stage funds,
the annual gain was 5.8 percent.  The last time Malloy was part of a such a large transaction
was when EBay bought web-payments company PayPal for about $1.2
billion. Malloy backed Confinity, the predecessor to PayPal,
while running Nokia Oyj’s venture arm. The firm made about 22
times its money on PayPal, he said.  Mobile Startups  Max Levchin , a PayPal co-founder, raised money from Malloy
again in 2005 for his social-media company Slide Inc. BlueRun
more than doubled its money from Slide’s $200 million sale to
Google in 2010. Levchin said Malloy was bullish on mobile before
most Silicon Valley investors.  “He’s got 10 years of experience over anyone else,” said
Levchin, who now runs mobile-payments startup Affirm Inc. and is
chairman of consumer-review website  Yelp Inc. (YELP)  “Through the
expertise of being a longtime mobile guy, he’s seen everything
through the prism of mobile.”  Malloy, whose firm is based in  Menlo Park ,  California , said
he first met Waze’s founders in early 2008 at the  Mobile World
Congress  in Barcelona. Soon thereafter, he led the first
investment, which included Israeli firms Magma Venture Partners
and Vertex Venture Capital. In 2011, Kleiner Perkins Caufield &
Byers, an early Google backer, and  Li Ka-shing ’s Horizon
Ventures  Hong Kong  led a $30 million round.  Malloy has been a board member since his initial investment
and said he’s an avid Waze user. Waze, which runs on  Apple
Inc.’s (AAPL)  iOS and Google’s Android mobile operating system, alerts
users to potential traffic slowdowns and suggests alternative
ways to reach destinations. The app lets users share their
location, so others can track their progress.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Emily Chang in San Francisco at 
 echang68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  