-- Google Settles Investor Lawsuit Over Common Stock Split
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-06-17T17:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/google-settles-investor-lawsuit-over-common-stock-split.html
Google Inc., operator of the world’s
largest Internet search engine, settled a lawsuit on the brink
of trial over a plan for a stock split that shareholders claimed
would unfairly allow founders  Larry Page  and  Sergey Brin  to
strengthen their corporate control.  Lawyers for a Massachusetts pension fund and other
investors were scheduled to begin presenting testimony tomorrow
in a Delaware court about a stock reclassification that would
create a new class of nonvoting shares, court filings show.  The settlement, which must be approved by a judge, clears
the way for the split, which had been on hold while the Delaware
case was being litigated. The accord provides enhanced board
scrutiny of Page’s and Brin’s requests to amend restrictions on
their sales of new Class C shares and on company acquisitions
funded by more than 10 million shares of the new stock,
according to court filings.  “Corporate governance settlements like this one have been
viewed as sufficient to justify dismissal of claims in a
settlement,” Larry Hamermesh, a Widener University law
professor who specializes in Delaware corporate law issues, said
in an interview.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , reported first-quarter profit in April that beat analysts’ forecasts as it
pushes beyond its roots as an Internet-search business to enter
new ad-driven markets, including smartphones, Web services and
video. The company’s search and video businesses generated
$8.64 billion in revenue for the quarter, up 18 percent from a
year earlier, according to Benjamin Schachter, an analyst at
Macquarie Securities USA Inc.  ‘Long-Term Bets’  Matt Kallman, a Google spokesman, said the company was
pleased that it reached a settlement in the Delaware case over
the stock-reclassification plan.  “We’ve always believed our founder-led approach gives us
the freedom to make long-term bets” on businesses and
strategies, Kallman said in an e-mailed statement.  Unhappy shareholders contended Page and Brin were seeking
to use the stock-reclassification plan to unfairly entrench
their control of Google, one of the world’s five largest
companies by market value, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Google’s market capitalization reached a record
$278 billion in March. The  shares  rose 1.5 percent to $888.18 at
1:28 p.m.  New York  time in Nasdaq trading.  Increased Flexibility  Google said in pretrial filings that the new shares were
designed to increase the company’s flexibility in making
acquisitions and rewarding employees while properly allowing
Page and Brin to maintain control of the company they started in
1998. Google first publicly sold $1.67 billion in shares in
August 2004. At the time, it was the largest initial public
offering for a Web company.  Under Google’s existing stock structure, its Class A common
shares carry one vote while Class B shares carry 10 votes,
according to court filings. Page and Brin hold Class B shares
that carry more than 56 percent of the company’s  voting rights ,
the filings said. The pair own about 15 percent of the company’s
outstanding equity.  Google wants to create Class C shares, which carry no
voting rights. All investors would receive a dividend in the
form of Class C shares in what amounts to a 2-for-1 stock split,
according to the filings.  Directors Criticized  The  Brockton, Massachusetts Retirement Board  contended that
Google directors erred in backing the reclassification plan
because it would allow Page and Brin to reap millions in stock
sales without any effect on their voting control.  The Massachusetts pension fund has about $500,000 invested
in Google’s shares, the Brockton Enterprise newspaper reported
in May 2012.  The fund’s lawyers contended that Google’s common
 shareholders  face dilution of their holdings after the issuance
of additional stock for acquisitions or employee compensation.
Class C shares also are likely to trade at a discount to Class A
shares because of the loss of voting rights, they added.  To address those concerns, directors structured the
reclassification to bar Page and Brin from selling Class C
shares unless they sell an equal number of Class B super-voting
shares, the board’s attorneys said.  Waiver Considerations  Under today’s settlement, if Page or Brin request a waiver
of the Class C sale restrictions, it must be considered only by
Google’s independent directors and approved by the full board,
according to court filings.  “In the event that Google considers using in excess of
10 million shares of Class C stock as consideration for an
acquisition, the independent members of the board shall consider
the effects on using such shares on Class A shareholders and the
company,” the filing added.  Hamermesh said settlements that make changes to a
corporation’s stock or governance structure are common when
investors’ claims are “relatively weak.”  “This stock-reclassification plan is something that falls
under the board’s business judgment and that judgment would be
deferred to by the courts,” Hamermesh added.  The case is In re  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Class C Shareholder
Litigation, CA No. 7469, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  