-- Gore Says Capitalism’s Short-Term Focus Is Hurting Companies
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-06-17T15:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/gore-says-capitalism-s-short-term-focus-is-hurting-companies.html
Former U.S. Vice President  Al Gore 
said capitalism is coming under increased scrutiny and needs to
change as short-term thinking has driven a wedge between
investing and the creation of value for corporations.  “In spite of its benefits, it’s now associated in the
minds of people all over the world with a growing set of
problems and challenges that require us to address needed
reforms in capitalism,” Gore, who’s also a Nobel Prize
laureate,  said today in a speech in  Stockholm .  Gore, who has transformed himself from a politician to a
successful businessman with a net worth that could exceed $200
million, has spent the past years also advocating “sustainable
capitalism” as parts of the global economy still struggle to
emerge from the worst economic slump since the Great Depression.  “There is a continuing focus on short-term decision making
in markets and that is distorting the allocation of resources,”
he said. “It’s hurting the quality of decisions that are made
by companies.”  Stock markets have tumbled since the end of May, wiping
more than $500 billion off the value of U.S. stocks, amid
concern the  Federal Reserve  will begin reducing stimulus for the
economy. Central banks around the world, from the U.S. to Japan,
have been forced to deploy unconventional policies such as asset
purchases to boost demand as  interest rates  hit record lows.
Unemployment has surged to a record in the 17-nation euro-area
where the economy is estimated to shrink for a second year.  Gore this year sold his Current TV network to  Al Jazeera ,
the cable channel funded in part by oil-rich Qatar. The sale was
announced in January with a price tag of about $500 million.  Gore served as vice president during President  Bill Clinton ’s administration and shared the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize
for his fight against global warming.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  