-- Greek Coalition Leaders to Meet to Resolve ERT Dispute
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2013-06-18T12:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/greek-coalition-leaders-to-meet-today-to-resolve-ert-dispute.html
(Corrects target year for reducing Greek government
payroll in fifth paragraph of story first published yesterday.)  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
will meet with his coalition partners today after their
objections to his closure of the country’s public broadcaster
threatened the stability of his year-old government.  The premier overrode objections from Pasok leader  Evangelos Venizelos  and Democratic Left’s Fotis Kouvelis, the junior
partners in his coalition, and shut the broadcaster ERT on June
11, eliminating 2,600 jobs. The leaders will meet at 7:30 p.m.
local time in Athens, a day after Samaras repeated his intention
to replace ERT with a new operation, employing fewer people.  “We political leaders together agreed to cut 2,000 jobs
from the public sector by the start of June,” Samaras said in a
speech in Nafplio yesterday. “We signed it, we voted for it in
parliament and we took it on as a responsibility.”  Pasok and Democratic Left provide Samaras, whose New
Democracy party has 125 seats in the 300-member parliament, with
the majority he needs to pass measures demanded by the euro area
and  International Monetary Fund  in exchange for 240 billion
euros ($320 billion) of bailout loans. Elections 12 months ago
today brought the coalition together as the country faced
financial collapse and exit from the euro area.  The government has commited to reducing the state payroll
with 15,000 mandatory exits by the end of next year. Public
sector job losses have been a sticking point in past reviews of
 Greece ’s performance in meeting its bailout terms by its
creditors.  Without compromise among coalition partners, the risk of
new elections will increase, which would be credit negative,
Moody’s Investors Service said in a report today. The
“extremely contentious political environment” poses risks to
the Greece economic recovery, according to Moody’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  