-- Gulf Coast Gasoline Weakens as Outlets to U.S. Midwest Dry Up
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-06-17T19:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/gulf-coast-gasoline-weakens-as-outlets-to-u-s-midwest-dry-up.html
Gulf Coast  gasoline on the  spot
market  weakened as prices in Chicago plunged after refineries
returned to service, reducing the incentive to ship products
north from the U.S. refining center.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline on the Gulf Coast weakened
by 4.38 cents to 11 cents a gallon below futures traded on the
 New York  Mercantile Exchange at 1:39 p.m., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The discount for  85-octane conventional
blendstock for oxygenate blending  on the coast widened 3.75
cents to 15.5 cents a gallon.  Discounts narrowed last week after supply shortages in the
Chicago area pushed prices there to a record premium on June 3.
Chicago prices fell to a discount on June 14 after  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ’s Joliet, Illinois, refinery returned to service after
planned maintenance.  Shipments to the Midwest were “certainly supporting” Gulf
Coast gasoline prices, said Steve Mosby, vice president of
supply consultant ADMO Energy LLC in Kansas City, Missouri.
“When you lose that support, it certainly leaves the Gulf Coast
basis vulnerable for further decline.”  BP Plc (BP/)  has said it will restart by the end of this month
its Whiting, Indiana, refinery’s Pipestill 12, which has been
shut since November to convert it into a processor of mostly
heavy Canadian  crude oil .  Gasoline inventories on the Gulf Coast  fell  1.9 percent to
75.6 million barrels in the week ending June 7. Supplies in the
region were still at the highest point for  this time of year  in
EIA weekly data back to 1990.  CBOB in  Chicago  weakened 1 cent to a 13.5-cents-a-gallon
discount to Nymex futures today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  