-- Li Ka-shing Pays $1.3 Billion for Dutch Waste Processor
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-06-17T08:31:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/li-ka-shing-buys-wasteprocessor-afvalverwerking-for-1-3-billion.html
Billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s  Cheung
Kong  Holdings Ltd. and partners agreed to buy AVR
Afvalverwerking BV from Van Gansewinkel Groep BV for 943.7
million euros ($1.3 billion) to add waste processing in  Europe .  The bidding group will consist of Hong Kong-based Cheung
Kong,  Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd. (1038) , Li Ka Shing
Foundation Ltd., and  Power Assets Holdings Ltd. (6) , according to a
statement today. Eindhoven-based Van Gansewinkel is owned by
private equity firms CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and  KKR & Co. (KKR)   This deal is the second waste treatment investment Cheung
Kong made this year, following the NZ$501 million ($405 million)
purchase of New Zealand’s EnviroWaste announced in January.
Buying AVR Afvalverwerking gives Li control of the company with
the largest  waste treatment  capacity in Europe, according to a
separate statement.  “AVR’s earnings growth is quite significant,” said Dennis Ip, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Standard Chartered Plc.
“There’s growth potential in European countries where there’s
great focus on environmental protection,” he said.  Net profit at AVR was about 42.3 million euros in 2012, up
from 20.7 million euros in 2011, according to the statement
today. The company, which isn’t publicly traded, is the largest
energy from waste company in the the Netherlands, with plants at
Rozenburg near Rotterdam and Duiven, close to the German border,
according to the statement.  Conditions for completion of the acquisition include
competition authority clearance, according to the statement.  Shares Climb  Cheung Kong gained 3.7 percent to close at HK$108.60 in
Hong Kong, while Cheung Kong Infrastructure climbed 3 percent to
HK$53.45. The benchmark  Hang Seng  index rose 1.2 percent.  Credit Suisse Group AG advised Van Gansewinkel, according
to a statement on its website. HSBC Holdings Plc advised the
bidding group, according to Wendy Tong Barnes, Cheung Kong’s
spokeswoman.  Cheung Kong Infrastructure “is making good inroads in the
area of waste management,” Managing Director Kam Hing Lam said
in a separate statement. “With waste treatment being an
imminent issue in most places around the world, we see good
growth potential in this business.”  The acquisition adds to utilities and infrastructure
purchases Li has made in markets including Europe in the past
three years. In 2012, Li almost doubled the size of the gas
transmission businesses his companies control in the U.K. after
acquiring Wales & West Utilities Ltd.  Cheung Kong and Cheung Kong Infrastructure will each hold
35 percent of the bidding joint venture, while Power Assets will
hold 20 percent and the rest held by Li Ka Shing Foundation, the
statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  