-- Ibovespa Declines Second Day as Brazil Rate Outlook Saps Gafisa
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-06-17T21:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/ibovespa-futures-rise-as-investors-await-fed-signals-on-stimulus.html
The Ibovespa fell for a second day
as  Gafisa SA (GFSA3)  led losses by Brazilian homebuilders amid concern
that rising borrowing costs may curb the recovery in Latin
America’s biggest economy.  Oil producer  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) 
contributed the most to the benchmark’s drop, leading declines
among companies controlled by the billionaire  Eike Batista .
Meatpacker  Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3)  slipped to a one-month low.
Plane builder  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  was the best performer on the gauge
after airline SkyWest Inc. placed an order for as many as 200
regional jets valued at $9.36 billion.  The Ibovespa lost 0.5 percent to 49,088.65 at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo. The gauge plunged into a  bear market  last
week after falling more than 20 percent from its Jan. 3 peak
amid concern that accelerating inflation may hamper Brazil’s
recovery.  “Growth is slowing, inflation is high, and there are no
signs that things will improve in the short term,” Fernando Goes, an analyst at Sao Paulo-based brokerage Clear Corretora,
said in a phone interview.  Brazilian swap rates on most contracts increased after
central bank president Alexandre Tombini said there is no limit
to increases in borrowing costs as policy makers strive to curb
inflation. Economists covering Brazil lowered their 2013 growth
forecast to 2.49 percent from 2.53 percent, according to a
central bank survey released today.  Petrobras Gains  Gafisa tumbled 6.3 percent to 3.11 reais. OGX sank 15
percent to 82 centavos. Marfrig slid 6.5 percent to 7 reais.  Before falling later in the day, the Ibovespa rose as much
as 1.6 percent as Petroleo Brasileiro SA led gains. The state-controlled oil producer said in a statement June 14 that it sold
50 percent of a unit holding African assets to billionaire  Andre Esteves ’  Banco BTG Pactual SA (BPAC3)  for $1.53 billion. The unit, which
includes operations in Angola,  Benin , Gabon, Namibia, Nigeria
and Tanzania, will work as a joint venture with the Brazilian
investment bank to explore and produce oil and gas in the
region, it said.  “This is good news for Petrobras as it shares costs and
risks in large areas that are currently outside its main focus”
in Brazilian operations, BES Securities do Brasil SA analysts
Oswaldo Telles and Frederico Lebre wrote in a note to clients.  Petrobras rose 0.2 percent to 18.09 reais.  Embraer jumped 6.4 percent to 19.94 reais. The company also
said today that it agreed to sell as many as 100 aircrafts to
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s leasing unit and 65 planes
to five undisclosed airlines.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge trades at 11.8 times
analysts’  earnings estimates  for the next four quarters,
compared with a multiple of 10.2 for the MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Trading volume for stocks in  Sao Paulo  was 6.58 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.85 billion reais this year
through June 13, according to data  compiled  by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  