-- Michelin Signs Accord to Form $435 Million Venture in Indonesia
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-06-17T08:58:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/michelin-signs-accord-to-form-435-million-venture-in-indonesia.html
Michelin & Cie (ML)  agreed to form a
joint venture with Indonesian petrochemical producer PT Chandra
Asri Petrochemical Tbk to make synthetic rubber as  Europe ’s
largest tiremaker forecast increasing demand for the material.  “The total investment is estimated at $435 million,” the
companies said in a joint statement today. “Pending final
investment decision, plant construction is expected to commence
in early 2015 with completion and start-up targeted for the
beginning of 2017.” Michelin will own 55 percent of the
venture, which will be based in Jakarta, and PT Chandra Asri
Petrochemical will own the remaining 45 percent.  The French manufacturer plans to increase tire production
in Asian markets as demand for cars and light trucks keeps
growing in several large countries in the region, including
 China , the world’s largest car market. This contrasts with the
European car market, which is poised to fall for the sixth
straight year, causing the Clermont-Ferrand, France-based
company to reduce capacity in its home region.  “It seems they are investing here to target the market for
replacement tires,” Joko Sogie, an analyst at PT Danareksa
Sekuritas, said by phone in Jakarta. “At the current economic
growth rate, and the state of the road infrastructure,
Indonesian motorists are expected to change their tires once
every two years. That rate is higher compared to the replacement
rate in Europe which might be once every three years.”  Michelin rose 2.3 percent to 71.22 euros at 10:55 a.m. in
Paris trading.  Record Sales  Car sales in  Indonesia  rose to a record 1.1 million units
in 2012, according to the country’s top auto seller PT Astra
International. Car sales in the country may slow next year
because of an expected rise in subsidized fuel prices, Leonardo Henry Gavaza, an analyst at Bahana Securities, said in a report
today.  Michelin said last week it would end production of heavy-truck tires at its Joue-les-Tour factory in  France , eliminating
730 jobs at the site and trimming excess capacity amid slumping
demand in the region. The tiremaker’s plants are currently using
50 percent to 60 percent of capacity for passenger cars and
light trucks, Michelin Chief Executive Officer Jean-Dominique Senard said on May 17.  -- With assistance from Neil Chatterjee in  Singapore  and Harry Suhartono in Jakarta. Editors: Robert Valpuesta, Thomas Mulier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  