-- Ticks Widening, Singapore Censure, Swaps: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-06-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/ticks-widening-singapore-censure-swaps-compliance.html
Proposals to study changing the
price increments at which some U.S. stocks change hands may be
getting closer to implementation.  Executives from the biggest American exchanges are drafting
a pilot program that would widen so-called tick sizes on about
100 smaller and less-liquid securities for a year, according to
a document seen by  Bloomberg News . Another would cover lower-priced, active stocks to see if smaller increments would benefit
investors, the document showed.  Most American shares have been bought and sold at prices
denominated in pennies for more than a decade after the spread
was narrowed in an initiative known as decimalization, which
some economists say hurt liquidity by lowering profits for
market makers. Those professionals, who help facilitate orderly
trading, earn money by collecting the difference between the
highest price to buy a share and the lowest to sell.  Officials from the  New York Stock Exchange (NYX)  and Nasdaq held
discussions with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
this month on the pilots, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the matter who asked not to be identified because
the talks were private.  The SEC has asked exchange officials to help draw up the
plans because they know the most about how securities trade,
according to two people with direct knowledge of the
discussions.  Sara Rich, a NYSE Euronext spokeswoman, and Robert Madden,
a Nasdaq spokesman, declined to comment on the pilot programs.
 Randy Williams , a BATS Global Markets Inc. spokesman, also
declined to comment. SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to
comment.  Compliance Policy  Danish Banks Welcome FSA Steps to Conform With EU on CoCos  Denmark’s financial industry has welcomed a decision by the
Financial Supervisory Authority to recommend that trigger levels
governing contingent convertible bonds be in line with European
standards.  Banks will be able to choose between a threshold of 7
percent core equity Tier 1 and an individual solvency
requirement, which includes Tier 2 capital, the regulator said
June 12. That matches European standards and is well below the
10.125 percent a government-appointed committee in March
recommended be applied to systemically important banks.  According to Anders Balling, head of bank oversight at the
FSA in Copenhagen, lenders will probably favor the 7 percent
trigger as a more reliable gauge of when conversion will occur.  The regulator said last month it will allow banks the
option of using contingent capital, or debt that converts to
equity at regulator-determined triggers, to help the industry
fulfill stricter  reserve requirements . For the country’s six
biggest banks, led by Danske Bank and Nykredit, lawmakers are
still debating where trigger levels should be set.  Banks have until June 19 to send their responses to the
FSA’s proposal.  EU Postpones Decision on Robustness of U.S., Japan Swaps Rules  The European Union will take more time to assess U.S. and
Japanese rules for swaps trading as it scrutinizes banks’ access
to clearinghouses based outside the 27-nation bloc.  The European Commission gave regulators a Sept. 1 deadline
to complete a review of the measures, allowing them to “take
account of international ongoing developments,” according to a
letter published on the website of the European Securities and
Markets Authority. The previous deadline was June 15.  The EU and the U.S. have been locked in an escalating spat
over swaps rules amid warnings from the bloc that planned U.S.
requirements would leave EU banks saddled with extra costs and
incompatible legal obligations.  The international reach of U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission rules has been one of the most controversial elements
of the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act. Nations may discuss the measures at
a June 20 meeting of derivatives regulators in Montreal.  The commission also extended ESMA’s deadline for other
national swap-rule assessments to Oct. 1.  Special Section:  Singapore  Censures  Singapore Censures 20 Banks for Bids to Rig Benchmark Rates  Singapore’s monetary authority censured banks for trying to
rig benchmark  interest rates  and ordered them to set aside as
much as S$12 billion ($9.6 billion) at zero interest pending
steps to improve internal controls.  ING Groep NV,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  UBS AG (UBSN) 
were among 20 banks at which 133 traders tried to manipulate the
 Singapore interbank offered rate , swap offered rates and
currency benchmarks in the city-state, the Monetary Authority of
Singapore said in a statement June 14. The regulator said it
will also make rigging key rates a criminal offense and bring
supervision under its direct oversight.  The crackdown in Singapore comes amid a widening global
review of benchmark rates following revelations last week of
potential manipulation in the $4.7 trillion-a-day  currency
market .  Nineteen firms were asked to post reserves ranging from
S$100 million to S$1.2 billion -- depending on the severity of
the attempts by their traders to manipulate rates -- for a year
and will earn zero interest on that money, MAS said. Commerzbank
AG was exempted from setting aside any money.  The banks have taken disciplinary action against the 133
traders found to have tried to rig the rates, with about three-quarters of them having resigned or been asked to leave their
firms, MAS said. The traders who are still employed will be
subject to disciplinary action, the regulator said.  “While there was no conclusive finding the Sibor, SOR and
FX benchmarks were successfully manipulated, the traders’
conduct reflected a lack of professional ethics,” according to
the statement from the central bank.  Sibor, used to price debt ranging from commercial term-loans to homeowners’ mortgages, is calculated daily on behalf of
the  Association of Banks in Singapore .  Singapore will be among the first countries to start using
trading data rather than the survey of estimates in calculating
benchmark rates, ABS and the  Singapore Foreign Exchange Market
Committee  said in a separate statement. The new method will
apply to four of the current 11 rates in the nation, while
another four will be discontinued and two will be replaced with
benchmarks from other markets, it said.  Local-currency Sibor will continue to be based on the
survey method to reflect interbank borrowing costs, according to
the statement. The benchmark will be subject to regular reviews,
it said. The U.S. dollar Sibor rate and Malaysian ringgit spot
rates will be replaced with U.S. dollar-Libor and onshore
ringgit spot rates.  Bank of America Corp. ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Oversea-Chinese
Banking Corp. (OCBC) ,  Barclays (BARC) ,  Credit Agricole (ACA) ,  Credit Suisse AG (CSGN) ,  DBS
Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , Deutsche Bank AG,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ,
 United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB) ,  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Macquarie Group
Ltd. (MIC) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc. (8306) ’s Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ unit were among the banks
named by MAS in the statement June 14.  Singapore Adds to Bank Penalties Levied for Rate-Rigging: Table  The penalties levied by Singapore come in the wake of
sanctions imposed by regulatory bodies in other nations.  In addition to penalties imposed by the Monetary Authority
of Singapore, penalties were levied on banks for manipulating
benchmark interest rates by regulators including the U.K.’s
 Financial Conduct Authority , the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission and  Department of Justice , and the Swiss Financial
Markets Regulatory Authority.  For a table of the penalties, click here.  Singapore to Scrap Four Benchmarks, Four Others to Use Trades  Singapore plans to scrap four benchmarks and use trades in
place of others. The changes follow Singapore’s central bank
review into how benchmark rates are set.  Four benchmarks will be calculated using market trades
instead of by survey, the  Association of Banks in Singapore  and
Singapore Foreign Exchange Market Committee said in a statement.  The Singapore dollar spot FX, Thai baht spot FX, Indonesian
rupiah spot FX and Singapore dollar swap offer rate (overnight,
one-month, three-month and six-month) are to be calculated using
trades.  The Malaysian ringgit spot FX and U.S. dollar Sibor are to
be replaced with onshore Malaysian ringgit spot FX and U.S.
dollar Libor.  Vietnam dong spot FX, Thai baht SOR, Indonesian rupiah SOR,
and Singapore dollar interest rate swaps are to be discontinued,
according to ABS.  Mitsubishi UFJ, UOB, ING, Credit Agricole React to MAS Measures  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. will boost control
structure following the probe by the  Monetary Authority of
Singapore , spokesman Shinya Matsumoto said by phone June 14.  It’s “extremely regrettable” that the lender has been
pointed out by Singapore’s MAS about lack of internal control,
Matsumoto said.  United Overseas Bank Ltd. will implement measures
prescribed by Singapore’s regulatory authority. It will
strengthen policies and procedures, according to an e-mailed
statement from the lender.  ING Groep NV (INGA)  has taken disciplinary actions against a small
number of individuals involved after the Monetary Authority of
Singapore’s review of rate-setting processes, the bank said in
an e-mailed statement June 14.  Amsterdam-based ING Groep fully cooperated with reviews and
said it’s “committed to conducting its business with highest
levels of integrity.” The company will take further measures to
enhance procedures for submitting rates, monitor those processes
and train staff, it said.  Credit Agricole  SA’s corporate and investment-banking
division said it will follow recommendations set out by the
Monetary Authority of Singapore.  Interviews  Merkel Says EU Transaction Tax Must Be ‘Tailor Made’  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  talked about stimulating
economic growth, investor concerns over the proposed European
financial-transaction tax and the prospects for a free-trade
agreement between the European Union and the U.S.  She spoke in Berlin with Bloomberg’s  Matthew Winkler .  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 