-- Mid-Size Company Lenders Post Worst Returns: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2013-06-17T13:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/mid-size-company-lenders-post-worst-returns-corporate-brazil.html
Banks focused on loans to mid-size
firms including Banco Industrial & Comercial SA and Banco
Daycoval SA are posting the worst returns among Brazilian
lenders as their customers’ bankruptcy filings rise.  Total return at Banco Industrial, known as BicBanco,
slumped 24 percent this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, after first-quarter net income fell 4 percent.
Daycoval’s total return dropped 8.7 percent, the third-worst of
the group behind BicBanco and Banco Pine SA. The lenders, which
have market values of about 2 billion reais ($931 million) and
less, are shifting to bigger clients or increasing consumer
lending as bad-loan provisions rise. Some are abandoning clients
with less than about 500 million reais in annual revenue.  “The overall economy’s performance has a huge impact on
mid-size-company lenders,” Maria Celina Vansetti-Hutchins,
managing director at Moody’s Investors Service in  New York , said
in a telephone interview. “Weaker growth increases banks’
selectiveness in doing loans, which fuels the credit squeeze for
smaller firms that already have to deal with decreasing revenues
from sales and, like a snowball, ends up hitting the banks’
balance sheets.”  Companies are struggling to pay their debt on time as
economic growth slows. The economy’s 0.9 percent expansion in
2012 was the slowest in three years, and the  number of companies 
that filed for legal protection from creditors in the first five
months of 2013 reached 384, up almost 14 percent from a year
earlier, according to credit-data provider Serasa Experian.  Loan Provisions  “If growth doesn’t pick up this year, the banks could end
up with less profit because they don’t generate enough revenue
from loans, and they would also have to increase their bad-loan
provisions,” Vansetti-Hutchins said, adding that she sees no
funding problems for mid-size banks yet.  The decline in total return for smaller banks contrasts
with the performance of  Brazil ’s larger financial companies,
which have less of their revenue coming from loans to small
corporations. Total return at Itau Unibanco Holding SA, Brazil’s
biggest bank by market value, dropped 1.9 percent this year, and
No. 2 Banco Bradesco SA’s fell 7.2 percent.  BicBanco became more conservative in lending after
suffering “from a mix of higher-than-average leverage and
worsening credit quality in the small and mid-size segment in
2011 and 2012,” said Carlos Firetti, Bruno Chemmer and Gustavo Lobo, analysts at Banco Bradesco BBI SA, in a report last month
in which they cut their  recommendation  on the bank to the
equivalent of hold from buy.  BicBanco declined to comment, said an official who asked
not to be named in keeping with company policy.  ‘Highly Conservative’  “A highly conservative approach toward  credit quality  is
likely to prevent BicBanco from posting higher returns until at
least the end of 2014,” the Bradesco analysts said in their
report.  BicBanco shifted its focus to larger companies with annual
revenue of at least 500 million reais and reduced its workforce
by about 20 percent, “which should begin to show more obvious
gains in the second half of this year,” the analysts said.  Even as total return slumps, Daycoval stands out as the
best-capitalized bank in the group, according to  Fitch Ratings 
Ltd., which cited a core capital ratio of around 17 percent in
2012, up from 16 percent in 2011.  “We had two shareholders’ equity increases of about 400
million reais since the end of last year and that was what made
our return on equity smaller,” said Ricardo Gelbaum, director
of  investor relations  at Daycoval.  Payroll Loans  Daycoval’s  net income  in the first quarter fell 31 percent
to 65.7 million reais from a year earlier. Loans outstanding
grew 2.5 percent to 8.56 billion reais as the bank reduced
credit for mid-size companies by 7 percent, to 5.3 billion
reais, and increased less risky payroll-deductible loans by 29
percent.  “We are a diversified bank and we can shift our portfolio
to more safe types of loans without losing margin,” Gelbaum
said.  Robert Stoll, a director at Fitch Ratings in New York who
covers Latin American financial institutions, said he’s “very
confident” mid-size banks in Brazil are safe in the long term.  “Stock investors always want to see short-term
performance, want to see return on equity -- they’re looking for
good profitability numbers,” Stoll said in an interview. To a
bond investor who wants to know if a bank will default, “you
have to also look at the capital quality, at the return on
assets, at the lender’s credits margins,” Stoll said.  Growth Recovery  Fitch estimates that the Brazilian economy will grow 2.7
percent this year and help banks rebound, he said.  Banco Indusval SA, which also makes loans to mid-size
companies, has been changing its focus since March 2011 to
companies with capital higher than 400 million reais, according
to Chief Executive Officer Jair Ribeiro.  “Our new portfolio of loans now represents more than 90
percent of our total lending book,” Ribeiro said in an
interview on June 6. “The old portfolio’s delinquency rates
were very high.”  That diversification strategy will help some of Brazil’s
smaller lenders recover, according to Rodolfo Amstalden, an
analyst at consulting firm Empiricus Research in  Sao Paulo .  “The diversification of banks specialized in mid-size
companies is the only possible way for them,” Amstalden said in
a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  