-- India Bonds Gain Most in a Month on Bets RBI to Resume Rate Cuts
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2013-06-17T08:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/india-bond-yield-at-one-month-high-before-rbi-policy-review.html
Indian  government bonds  rose the
most in a month on speculation the central bank will resume
interest-rate cuts after holding borrowing costs today.  Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  kept the repurchase  rate 
unchanged at 7.25 percent, as predicted by 15 of 25 analysts in
a Bloomberg News survey. Ten had forecast a reduction of 25
basis points. Conspicuously absent in the policy report was any
reference to the  Reserve Bank  of  India  having “little room” to
ease policy, a prominent term in recent communication, Roland Randall, a Singapore-based economist at  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , wrote in a note. The RBI will next review
policy on July 30.  “The forward guidance suggests that the RBI’s policy
stance is still biased towards cutting rates,” Mumbai-based
Nomura Plc economists Sonal Varma and Aman Mohunta wrote in a
research note. “We pencil in a 50 basis point cut in the repo
rate in the second half of 2013 with consumer price inflation
and the rupee likely to determine the timing of the moves.”  The yield on the benchmark 8.15 percent notes due June 2022
fell eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 7.45
percent as of 1:49 p.m. in Mumbai, according to the central
bank’s trading system. That’s the biggest drop since May 14.  The monetary authority has cut the repurchase rate by 75
basis points this year to help the economy recover from the
weakest growth in a decade. India’s gross domestic product
 expanded  5 percent in the fiscal year ended March 31, according
to government data.  The rupee declined 5.9 percent this quarter, the worst
performer among  Asia ’s 11 most-traded currencies. India’s
consumer price  index  rose 9.31 percent in May from a year
earlier, holding above 9 percent for 15 straight months,
official data showed last week.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivatives contract
used to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, fell four
basis points to 7.19 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  