-- Palm Exports From Indonesia Rising First Time Since January
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-06-18T08:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/indonesian-palm-exports-seen-rising-for-first-time-since-january.html
Palm oil shipments from  Indonesia ,
the world’s biggest producer, probably advanced for the first
time in four months in May on increasing demand for the Muslim
fasting month of Ramadan. Prices climbed to a three-month high.  Exports of the cooking oil, used in everything from noodles
to biofuel, rose 5.4 percent to 1.57 million metric tons from
April, the median of estimates from three plantation executives,
a refiner and an analyst compiled by Bloomberg showed. That’s
the first gain since an 8.2 percent increase in January. Output
dropped 4.8 percent to 2 million tons and inventories decreased
7.1 percent to 2.6 million tons, the survey showed.  Purchases before Ramadan, which starts in July, may extend
a rally in futures for a second month as stockpiles in the
second-largest producer  Malaysia  drop to an 11-month low. While
 Standard Chartered  Plc forecasts demand will outstrip supply in
2013,  Dorab Mistry , a director at Godrej International Ltd.,
said last month prices will drop after July as output climbs.
Communal meals during the fasting month increase demand.  “Buyers have started to boost imports to meet increasing
cooking oil consumption for Ramadan,” Hariyanto Wijaya, a
Jakarta-based analyst at PT Mandiri Sekuritas, a unit of the
nation’s largest lender by assets. Stockpiles, estimated at a
record 3.5 million tons in January, may start to increase again
as demand slackens after July and output gains, he said.  Price Gains  Futures advanced as much as 0.7 percent to 2,480 ringgit
($786) on the Bursa Malaysia Derivatives in  Kuala Lumpur  today,
the highest level since March 25. Prices are up 3.2 percent this
month after rising 4.9 percent in May. The  Indonesian Palm Oil
Association , which doesn’t release output and stockpiles data,
may publish the export figures next week.  Palm may drop to 2,000 ringgit a ton as output climbs in
Indonesia and Malaysia, rebuilding stockpiles, Mistry said on
May 21. Reserves in Indonesia may recover and begin to increase
before peaking again in the fourth quarter, he said.  Inventories in Malaysia fell 5.1 percent to 1.82 million
tons in May as output growth slowed, the nation’s palm oil board
said June 10. Exports from the country jumped 18 percent to
709,860 tons in the first 15 days of this month, surveyor
Intertek said on June 15. The Indonesian Palm Oil Board said
last month production will reach 28 million tons from 25.7
million in 2012.  That estimate was lower than an earlier forecast of 30
million tons,  Abah Ofon , an analyst at Standard Chartered in
 Singapore , said in a June 10 report, which estimated prices to
average 2,600 ringgit in the third quarter and 2,750 ringgit in
the last three months of 2013.  Production Cut  “We expect CPO prices to be supported by lower-than-expected output from Indonesia,” Ofon said, referring to palm
oil by its initials. “We believe that its 2 million-ton
production cut will stem any sustained decline in CPO prices.”  While palm’s discount to  soybean oil  has narrowed to less
than $300 per ton, it’s still at “attractive levels for
consumers relative to other vegetable oils,” Pawan Kumar, an
analyst at Rabobank International, said last week. The  discount 
was at $270.86, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Imports by  India , the biggest buyer, rose 10 percent in May
to 755,871 tons, the highest level in three months, the Solvent
Extractors’ Association of India said June 13. Demand may climb
after reserves at major ports in  China , the second largest user,
fell to 1.32 million tons, researcher Grain.gov.cn said June 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  