-- Indonesia Approves Revised 2013 Budget, Fuel Compensation Plan
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 2013-06-17T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/indonesia-approves-revised-2013-budget-fuel-compensation-plan.html
Indonesia ’s parliament approved a
revised 2013 budget including a compensation program for poor
people, giving the government room to raise fuel prices to
reduce trade and current-account deficits.  The budget was passed during a plenary session in
parliament in Jakarta yesterday, with 338 members in favor and
181 against it, said Speaker of the House Marzuki Alie. The
government plans to lift the price of subsidized fuel this week
after passing the compensation plan, Planning Minister Armida Alisjahbana told reporters in Jakarta before the vote.  Raising fuel prices would take some of the pressure off the
rupiah and improve investor confidence, after a record current
account gap in 2012 made the rupiah the worst performer in  Asia 
after the Japanese yen among 11 most-traded currencies tracked
by Bloomberg over the past year. The rupiah fell 0.1 percent to
9,888 per dollar in Jakarta yesterday before the vote.  “Raising the fuel price from the macro point of view is a
step that has to be done for macro stability,” Finance Minister
Chatib Basri told reporters at parliament.  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  had put off raising fuel
prices since protests derailed a planned increase last year, in
a country where riots spurred by soaring living costs helped
oust dictator Suharto in 1998. Yudhoyono made the fuel
compensation program a precondition to raising fuel prices, to
reduce the potential public backlash.  About 3,000 protesters staged a rally outside parliament
during the vote, said Rikwanto, a Jakarta police spokesman who
uses only one name. Students burned tires and braced against
water cannons as the protests continued into the evening,
according to footage from MetroTV.  Rupiah Pressure  The rupiah’s one-month non-deliverable forwards touched
10,412 on June 11, the weakest level since August 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Standard & Poor’s  cut its rating outlook on Indonesia’s
debt to stable from positive last month, saying a stalling of
reform momentum and a weaker external profile had reduced the
chance of an upgrade over the next 12 months.  The trade deficit could widen to as much as $3 billion this
year if the government fails to raise subsidized-fuel prices,
Trade Minister  Gita Wirjawan  said on June 4.  Consumer prices  are forecast by economists to accelerate on
the Yudhoyono administration plans to raise fuel prices.
Inflation may peak at about 8 percent within three months of a
price increase, Chua Hak Bin of Bank of America Corp. estimated.
 Bank Indonesia  made a surprise rate rise on June 13 to head off
the risk of inflationary pressures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  