-- Intel’s Technology Chief Says CEO Wants Products Faster
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   E m i l y   C h a n g
-- 2013-06-17T19:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/intel-s-technology-chief-says-ceo-wants-new-products-faster.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest
chipmaker, is being pushed by Chief Executive Officer Brian Krzanich to bring new products to market more quickly and then
update to refine them.  “He wants to see Intel move faster. That’s very clear,”
Justin Rattner, the company’s chief technology officer, said
today. “We’ve been legitimately accused of trying to get
everything perfect before it comes to market.”  Rattner, who spoke at the  Bloomberg Next Big Thing Summit 
in Half Moon Bay,  California , said that the company is going to
respond to a mobile market where products are introduced then
rapidly updated. Intel has struggled to translate its dominance
of personal computer processors into a foothold in tablets and
smartphones.  The company is working hard to develop chip technology that
draws less power and enables laptops and other computing devices
to get the kind of all-day battery life offered by phones,
Rattner said.  “There’s no question the age of handheld mobile devices
and soon wearable devices are upon us,” he said. “That
requires a complete rethink of how you design those systems and
how you program those systems and how you provision those
devices.”  Intel CEO Krzanich was  promoted  to the top job at the  Santa
Clara , California-based chipmaker in May, succeeding  Paul Otellini , who retired. Krzanich, a former factory manager, said
the company will speed up efforts to kick start its work on
chips for mobile devices that threaten the PC industry.  Global tablet shipments are expected to eclipse PCs by 2015
as consumers flock to smaller, more affordable machines,
according to researcher IDC. Intel ended 2012 with less than one
percent market share in tablets and phones, according to Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   giles5@bloomberg.net  