-- Investors Bet BCE-Astral Deal Wins Approval in Second Bid
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-06-17T20:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/investors-bet-bce-astral-deal-wins-approval-in-second-bid.html
Investors are betting  BCE Inc. (BCE)  will
succeed in a second bid to win regulatory approval for its
purchase of  Astral Media Inc. (ACM/A) , bolstering Canada’s largest
telecommunications company’s business in  Quebec .  BCE is seeking to persuade the country’s main media
watchdog to approve its C$3 billion ($2.95 billion) purchase of
the specialty-channel provider after its first bid was rejected
in October over concern the merger would concentrate too much
power in BCE’s hands. It submitted an amended takeover plan in
November that included the sale of some Astral assets.  The gap between the C$50 per share offer and Astral’s stock
 price  in the largest pending acquisition of a Canadian company
has averaged 2.7 percent over the past month, as investors
anticipate a positive decision by the regulator in coming weeks.
That compares with 3.6 percent in the month before the previous
decision on Oct. 18.  The purchase of Astral would allow Montreal-based BCE to
add French-speaking television channels like Super Ecran,
providing content for its wireless devices amid competition for
cable and wireless subscribers from Quebecor Inc. and U.S.
video-streaming services such as Netflix Inc.  “Our expectation from everything we’ve seen is that this
will be approved,” said  Robert Follis , the Toronto-based head
of fixed-income research at Bank of Nova Scotia. “I get the
feeling they have listened” to critics of the deal.  ‘Largest Deal’  Follis said he expects a decision from the Canadian Radio-television Telecommunications Commission by the “middle of
June.” Denis Carmel, a spokesman for the agency, said a
decision will be announced in “early summer.”  The Astral deal would be BCE Chief Executive Officer George
Cope’s largest. The company has been  adding  media content to
lure customers to spend more on wireless data. It teamed with
Toronto-based Rogers Communications Inc. to buy a controlling
stake in Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment Ltd. for $1.3 billion
in 2011, becoming owners of the  Toronto Maple Leafs , the most
valuable franchise in the  National Hockey League .  BCE agreed to buy broadcaster CTV in 2010 for C$1.3 billion
in cash and C$1.7 billion in debt, giving it 30  specialty
channels, including sports channel TSN.  Jason Laszlo, a spokesman for BCE, said the two companies
have presented a “compelling case” the acquisition is in the
public interest. “We look forward to closing the transaction
and welcoming the Astral team to Bell Media,” Laszlo said in an
e-mail statement on June 14.  Support Dividend  Olivier Racette, a spokesman for Astral, said the company
declined to comment.  BCE shares have slumped 8.8 percent since May 21 as rising
bond yields have drawn investors away from one of  Canada ’s best-known dividend stocks. That has pushed its advance over the past
12 months through June 14 down to 6.5 percent, compared with a
28 percent gain for Quebecor, the best-performing Canadian
telecommunications stock.  BCE shares would benefit from government approval of the
Astral deal, said Jeff Fan, an analyst at Scotia Capital Inc. in
Toronto. “Effectively what that would help support is the
dividend growth that BCE has communicated they want to stick
to,” Fan said in a phone interview June 14. “A rejection would
be negative” for BCE, he said. BCE shares rose 0.2 percent to
C$44.25 at 4:52 p.m. in Toronto today.  The company will need to win the backing of a new regulator
who has sought to be more assertive than his predecessors on
consumer protection.  Serve Canadians  Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission
Chairman Jean-Pierre Blais, appointed 12 months ago after
spending almost two decades in public service on broadcast and
cultural industry issues, said in a June 12  speech  that it was
important for regulators to be audacious to serve the interests
of Canadians, citing his decision to toughen regulation in the
wireless phone market and last year’s rejection of BCE’s bid for
Astral.  “Our decision last fall sent a clear signal that the
public interest is paramount,” he said in the speech.  In its Oct. 18 rejection, the CRTC said the deal raised
concerns about competition, ownership concentration in
television and radio, vertical integration and the exercise of
market power. The regulator calculated it would give BCE a 42.7
percent share of the Canadian English-language television market
and 33.1 percent of the French-language market.  BCE revised its offer, agreeing to sell Astral’s share of
six television joint ventures, including Teletoon and Cartoon
Network, as well as two  radio stations , to Corus Entertainment
Inc. for C$494 million.  Fundamental Support  “The CRTC pushed for some amount of changes and they got
some of those, and we don’t have a strong history of the
regulator standing up long-term to these kind of transactions,”
said Michael Geist, a law professor at the University of Ottawa
who specializes in Internet issues.  Canada’s antitrust agency has already approved the deal and
BCE said May 9 it’s targeting an early summer closing of the
Astral deal, pending CRTC approval.  Astral  stock  fell 15 percent to C$39.51 the day after the
CRTC rejected the bid and have risen 22 percent since then to
close at C$48.25 on June 14 in Toronto. The shares fell 0.3
percent to C$48.10 at the close in Toronto today.  “Our view is there is fundamental support at C$42,” said
Catharine Sterritt, a Toronto-based risk arbitrage strategist at
Bank of  Nova Scotia . “It actually has a very attractive risk-reward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  