-- Iran’s ‘Pragmatist’ Rohani May Defuse Gulf Tensions
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-06-17T05:50:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/iran-s-pragmatist-rohani-may-defuse-gulf-tensions.html
Iranian President-elect Hassan Rohani’s pledge to ease his country’s isolation may help to
defuse decades of tension with Gulf Arab states, which accuse
 Iran  of meddling in their internal politics.  While Iran’s foreign policy is largely decided by its non-elected clerical elite, “the president does have some influence
on foreign policy to some degree, and Rohani has called for Iran
to improve its relations with the outside world, the West and
the GCC,” Sam Wilkin, an analyst in Dubai at Control Risks
Group, said by telephone yesterday. Rohani is “much more of a
pragmatist” than outgoing President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, he
said.  The leaders of the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council
congratulated the 64-year-old Rohani, who takes office in
August, on his victory. King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, which
accused Iran of attempting to assassinate its ambassador to the
U.S. in 2011, addressed Rohani in a telegram quoted by the
official Saudi Press Agency, praising “the statements in which
you expressed how keen you are on cooperation and on improving
the relations between our two brotherly nations.”  Ties between Shiite Muslim Iran and the GCC, which is ruled
by Sunni Muslims, deteriorated this year after Saudi Arabia and
Bahrain said they arrested spy rings linked to Iran. The GCC
states call the body of water that separates them from Iran the
Arabian Gulf, whereas Iran has complained whenever maps,
including some by Google Inc., fail to display the name as
Persian Gulf.  Serious Threat  In December, the GCC said it would form a unified command
for its air, land and marine forces to face a “very serious”
security threat from Iran, whose nuclear program it sees as a
regional menace.  Rohani, who takes office in August, will need approval from
Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei, Iran’s ultimate authority, to
improve foreign relations and turn around an economy battered by
international sanctions over its nuclear program.  Theodore Karasik, director of research at the Institute for
Near East and Gulf Military Analysis in Dubai, said he doesn’t
see relations with the GCC warming immediately.  “I don’t expect any breakthrough in the short term. What
you’re going to see is a more pleasant diplomatic style toward
the GCC but with the same bite behind it,” Karasik said in a
phone interview.  Wilkin sees “an opportunity for the presidency to start
again, to turn over a new sheet from the days of Ahmadinejad and
his nationalist rhetoric and to normalize relations to some
degree.  ‘‘The fundamental antagonism between a Shiite-cleric regime
and the regime of the Gulf will remain in place,’’ Wilkin said.
Still, ‘‘Rohani could open up diplomacy and talks trade ties,
and generally push for better relations.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  