-- IRS Couldn’t Handle Political Cases Quickly, Manager Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-06-18T14:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/irs-couldn-t-handle-political-cases-quickly-manager-says.html
Internal Revenue Service employees
tried to treat politically oriented groups the same way as other
clusters of non-profits seeking tax-exempt status. That didn’t
work, an IRS manager told congressional investigators.  According to the transcript of her interview last month,
Holly Paz said the IRS identified a pattern of groups’ tax-exempt applications and then transferred some cases to
 Washington  so agency lawyers could set consistent rules. That’s
what the IRS had done with credit counselors and foreclosure-assistance groups, for example.  “I was a little frustrated with our progress,” she said
of the political cases. We had “not been able to develop a
template because we were finding that the cases, you know, had a
good deal of variety.”  The delays -- and what Paz, a senior IRS lawyer in the tax-exempt office, acknowledged were “overly burdensome” letters
to groups -- are part of a controversy that has led to six
congressional inquiries, a Justice Department criminal probe and
the replacement of IRS executives including Paz.  The IRS said June 7 that another person had been placed in
Paz’s job. The agency hasn’t provided information on Paz’s
status, and her attorney, Roel Campos, didn’t return a call for
comment yesterday. Paz is a registered Democrat who donated
$4,000 to President  Barack Obama ’s 2008 campaign and an
associated fund.  No Evidence  In the interview transcript, reviewed yesterday by
Bloomberg News, Paz said she saw no evidence of political
motivation to target anti-tax Tea Party groups. She was
interviewed by staff members for both parties on the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee.  Panel Chairman Darrell Issa, a California Republican, asked
her questions, too.  Congressional investigators have interviewed seven IRS
employees and are seeking to talk to more. Bloomberg News has
reviewed two transcripts of the interviews in full and portions
of two others, some of which have been released publicly.  Issa and Elijah Cummings of  Maryland , the top Democrat on
the committee, have been sparring over the release of the
transcripts. Each has released partial transcripts and each has
called for the release of all the transcripts -- though on
different timetables.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew told the Spanish-language
television network Univision that based on interview transcripts
released so far, there’s no sign of political influence in the
management of the IRS tax-exempt program. The tax agency is part
of the Treasury Department.  ‘Political Involvement’  “There’s no evidence that there was any political
involvement,” Lew said. “It was actions that were taken within
the management of this program. Anyone whose actions in this
area were inappropriate will be held accountable.”  So far, the employees’ comments to congressional
investigators have supported many of the statements from IRS
managers and the audit released May 14 by the agency’s inspector
general.  The interview transcripts show no evidence of influence
from outside the IRS and no knowledge by IRS officials above
Paz’s then-boss, Lois Lerner, before questions about possible
targeting began receiving some public attention in early 2012.
The controversy flared when Lerner disclosed in early May that
the targeting had occurred, and she apologized for it. She has
since been placed on administrative leave.  The transcripts emphasize repeated management failures and
miscommunication as agency officials tried to craft a plan for
reviewing the nonprofits that could satisfy their own lawyers,
be executed by workers and be acceptable to lawmakers.  Legal Definition  The challenge for IRS workers was to fit the cases into a
legal definition. The rules for groups applying for tax-exempt
status under section 501(c)(4) of the U.S. tax code say that
they must be operated primarily for non-political purposes.  One issue, Paz said, is that the groups’ materials would
often contradict their assertions that they wouldn’t be involved
in politics.  “Certain activities,” she said, “could be entirely
permissible but if you tweak the facts a little bit, suddenly
you’ve stepped over the line and you have got campaign
intervention.”  An employee in the Cincinnati office that handles tax-exempt applications flagged a Tea Party case to managers in
2010, starting a process that led to such scrutiny of all Tea
Party applications and hundreds more for tougher review.  At one point, Paz said, a Cincinnati employee had the
“misimpression” that he was supposed to stop processing cases
while he awaited guidance from Washington, contributing to the
delays.  Like Coke  Paz said she didn’t learn until mid-2011 that employees
were using Tea Party as a screening term. The internal
descriptions of “Tea Party cases” were benign and she took
them to be references to political activity of all kinds, much
like Coke is used to describe other brands of soda, she said.  “Because they are so apolitical, they are not as sensitive
as we would like them to be as to how things might appear,” she
said of these agency workers. “Many of these employees have
been with the IRS for decades and were used to a world where how
they talked about things internally was not something that would
be public or that anyone would be interested in.”  Her interview offered some new details about what happened
after that. IRS officials including Lerner, Paz’s boss at the
time, ordered the criteria changed in 2011.  Constitution Education  Employees shifted those criteria to include whether a group
had as its goals education on the Constitution. The employees
did that, Paz said, because the criteria suggested by their
superiors were causing too many lobbying groups to pop up that
didn’t deserve extra attention.  One employee, who had worked on credit counseling cases as
well, was moved out of handling political advocacy cases, Paz
said.  “He didn’t adapt it to this different context as we would
have liked him to,” Paz said. “And so we felt like he couldn’t
handle these types of cases.”  A committee aide who requested anonymity in discussing the
testimony from IRS employees said there is conflicting
information about what happened during this period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  