-- Blazing Container Ship Breaks Up During Indian Ocean Storm
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f   a n d   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2013-06-18T14:31:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/mitsui-o-s-k-ship-suffers-extensive-damage-amid-bad-weather.html
A container ship broke into two
parts in the  Indian Ocean  and was sinking after a storm caused 
it hull to crack and set one of the sections ablaze.  The MOL Comfort was sailing to  Jeddah ,  Saudi Arabia , from
Singapore when it cracked during “inclement weather” at about
7 a.m. local time yesterday, Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd., the
Tokyo-based operator of the carrier,  said  on its website. The
front and back sections of the vessel have drifted about 19
miles apart and the shipper is sending tugboats to both.  The carrier is sinking and the back is ablaze, the U.S.
Navy in Bahrain said in an advisory sent by e-mail today. There
are “considerable amounts of oil on the water with containers
scattered in the area,” it said. Mitsui O.S.K. spokeswoman
Akika Hamakawa said there wasn’t a significant leak.  The shipowner is investigating the incident and doesn’t
have details on the cargo yet, she said. The carrier was built
five years ago and can carry about 7,000 standard 20-foot
containers. It was carrying a crew of 26, comprising one
Ukrainian, 11 Russians and 14 Filipinos, the company said. All
were rescued.  Nippon Kaiji Kyokai conducted a  special survey  on the ship
last month, according to its website. The vessel is insured by
Japan Ship Owners’ Mutual Protection and Indemnity Association,
according to its website.  Prior to Singapore, the ship went to  Vietnam , according to
ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg. Before that it sailed
to China and Japan.  In 2006, a Mitsui O.S.K. vessel carrying 4,700  Mazda Motor
Corp. (7261)  cars was damaged in rough seas and took on water. Mazda
decided to junk the vehicles after a two-month assessment to
determine whether any could be salvaged, the Hiroshima, Japan-based company said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net ;
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  