-- Jet Slumps as India Defers Decision on Stake Sale: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-06-17T05:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/jet-slumps-as-india-defers-decision-on-stake-sale-mumbai-mover.html
Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) , the
nation’s biggest publicly-traded carrier, fell the most in a
week in Mumbai trading after the government deferred a decision
on the airline’s plan to sell a stake to Etihad Airways PJSC.  Shares of Jet slumped as much as 13 percent, the most since
June 10, to 411.05 rupees. The stock changed hands at 431.50
rupees as of 10:28 a.m. The carrier has dropped 23 percent this
year compared with the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex’s 1.3 percent
decline.  India ’s Foreign Investment Promotion Board on June 14
deferred its decision on Jet’s agreement to sell a 24 percent
stake to Abu Dhabi’s Etihad, as authorities sought more details
about the local carrier’s ownership. The airline is seeking
funds to add aircraft and pare debt after six years of losses
caused by fuel costs and competition from discount carriers.  Jet founder and Chairman Naresh Goyal will own 51 percent
of the company after the deal, according to a company statement
in April. Etihad will hold 24 percent and the remainder will be
held by the public.  The Mumbai-based carrier, which agreed in April to sell its
stake for 20.6 billion rupees ($356 million), is counting on
Etihad funds to accelerate repayment of working capital debt,
K.G. Vishwanath, vice president of commercial strategy, told
analysts in a conference call on May 27. The company is
considering an order for Boeing Co. 737 planes, he said.  AirAsia India  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government in September
allowed foreign carriers to buy as much as 49 percent of local
operators. That also prompted  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , the region’s biggest
discount carrier, to set up an India venture through a
partnership with Tata Group. AirAsia India plans to start
operations later this year.  Authorities are seeking more details from Jet about its
“effective control and ownership,” Economic Affairs Secretary
Arvind Mayaram said June 14 in New Delhi after the Foreign
Investment Promotion Board discussed the Etihad investment.  After the Foreign Investment Promotion Board’s approval,
the carrier also needs to obtain clearances from stock market
regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India and the home
ministry for its stake sale deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  