-- Johnson Controls Said to Mull Auto-Electronics Unit Breakup
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-06-18T20:20:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/johnson-controls-said-to-mull-breakup-of-auto-electronics-unit.html
Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) , the largest
U.S. auto-parts maker, may consider breaking up its electronics
unit and selling the pieces if it doesn’t get a strong enough
bid for the business, people with knowledge of the matter said.  The Milwaukee-based company, which said in March it hired
JPMorgan Chase & Co. to explore a sale of the division, may sell
only parts of the business if it doesn’t get the right price for
the unit, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
process is private. At least one of the initial bidders,  Delphi
Automotive Plc (DLPH) , has backed away from an offer because it didn’t
want all of the business, the people said.  China ’s SAIC Motor Corp. is still considering a bid for at
least part of the automotive-electronics unit, valued at $1.2
billion, the people said. While a breakup may take more time, it
could make it easier to find buyers, one person said. Johnson
Controls would still prefer to sell the unit to one buyer, the
people said.  Delphi, based in Troy,  Michigan , eventually may be
interested in parts of the business excluding the Homelink
product line, which enables drivers to open automated garage
doors with a control built into a car’s visor, said the people.
Delphi made a first-round bid for the entire unit to get a look
at what assets may fit in with its operations, people familiar
with the situation said.  SAIC Motor, based in  Shanghai , may be interested in the
whole unit, said one of the people. It isn’t clear if SAIC Motor
plans to make a firm offer for the business, the person said.  Selling Parts  Delphi withdrew its interest more than a week ago and told
Johnson Controls that if the company were to sell off parts in
the future, Delphi may be willing to have a look at some assets,
one of the people said.  JPMorgan is also talking to private-equity firms in search
of more bids, said one of the people familiar with the
situation. Previously, buyout firms were excluded from the
process, people with knowledge of the matter said in April.  Fraser Engerman, a spokesman for Johnson Controls, said in
an e-mail that the company has received “strong interest from
multiple strategic buyers” and that the sale process is
proceeding. Claudia Piccinin, a spokeswoman for Delphi, declined
to comment. A spokeswoman for SAIC Motor in Shanghai didn’t
respond to a message left outside normal business hours.  Auto Batteries  Johnson Controls got more than half of its $42 billion in
revenue in the year ended in September from its auto-parts unit.
The company also makes auto batteries and equipment for managing
building climates and security.  The electronics unit accounted for about $1.4 billion of
Johnson Controls’s revenue last year, according to a company
presentation to analysts in December, about 3 percent of the
total, selling infotainment systems, instrument clusters and
electronics that control door locks and monitor tire pressure.  The stock dropped less than 1 percent to $37.49 as of 4
p.m. in  New York , giving the company a market capitalization of
almost $26 billion.  Reuters reported previously that Johnson Controls is in
talks with private-equity firms about their interest in the
unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  