-- Liberty Global Makes Bid for Kabel Deutschland
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-06-18T15:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/kabel-deutschland-says-it-has-been-approached-by-liberty-global.html
Liberty Global Plc (LBTYA)  made a
preliminary bid for  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) , pitting the
cable company controlled by John Malone against  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD)  for control of Germany’s largest cable provider.  Liberty Global made an offer for Kabel Deutschland, the
Munich-based company said in a statement late yesterday without
disclosing the price. Liberty offered about 85 euros a share,
according to a person familiar with the talks. The proposal
values the company at 7.5 billion euros ($10 billion) and
consists of shares and cash, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the discussions are private.  Kabel Deutschland’s management, led by Chief Executive
Officer Adrian von Hammerstein, favors Vodafone’s latest bid of
83 euros, which is all cash and may have better chances of being
approved by Germany’s Federal Cartel Office, the person said. A
new owner would gain 8.5 million paying households and potential
customers for combined landline, mobile and TV subscriptions in
Europe’s biggest telecommunications market.  “This is probably a tactical offer to push up the price
and make it more difficult for Vodafone,” said Heike Pauls, an
analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “Liberty is aware that
the cartel office would at best approve their deal under very
tough conditions.”  Marcus Smith, a spokesman for Liberty Global, declined to
comment beyond the statement made by Kabel Deutschland. Simon
Gordon, a Vodafone spokesman, declined to comment.  Antitrust Concerns  Kabel Deutschland was blocked by the antitrust regulator
from buying Berlin-based cable operator Tele Columbus Group in
February.  Liberty Global, which entered the German market with the
acquisition of Unitymedia in 2010, was forced to take steps like
removing encryptions and opening up contracts with housing
associations to rivals when it added operator KabelBW the next
year to form the country’s second-largest cable operator.  Regulators may approve a deal if Liberty Global agrees to
concessions including opening up its network to rivals, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. analysts said in a note today, citing Matthias Kurth, the former head of  Germany ’s Federal Network Agency.
Kurth last year became executive chairman at  Cable Europe , a
cable industry group whose members include Liberty Global.  Shares in Kabel Deutschland climbed 30 percent since
Vodafone’s interest in the company first surfaced on Feb. 13
through yesterday. They rose as much as 4.3 percent to 86.02
euros and were up 3.8 percent as of 5:30 p.m. in Frankfurt.  Vodafone rose 0.8 percent to 184.20 pence in  London .
Liberty Global  added  0.5 percent to $72.39 in New York.  European Expansion  Vodafone and Liberty Global both want Kabel Deutschland to
expand their empires in Europe. Phone companies across the
continent are bulking up their networks and adding services as
they work to increase customer bills and loyalty. Bundles of TV,
Internet and phone service are becoming increasingly popular,
stoking deals and partnerships between carriers.  A bidding war for Kabel Deutschland could push Vodafone to
offer as much as 90 euros a share following Liberty’s bid,  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said today in a
note. Kabel Deutschland sold shares for 22 euros apiece in its
2010 initial public offering.  “Companies are acting; their M&A will reshape Europe,”
Bienenstock said. “Europe is rapidly moving towards a series of
integrated duopolies with a punishing outlook for wireless-only
companies.”  Credit Downgrade?  Liberty Global invaded Vodafone’s home turf in February,
spending $16 billion in cash and stock to take over British
cable-television provider Virgin Media Inc. in the largest media
deal since 2007.  Liberty has also built an 18.2 percent stake in Dutch
cable-TV operator  Ziggo NV. (ZIGGO)  Most of Liberty Global’s operations
are in Europe, with about 90 percent of revenue coming from the
continent, including operations in  Belgium ,  Austria , Ireland and
Switzerland. As part of the Virgin Media deal, Liberty Global is
moving its headquarters to the U.K. from Englewood,  Colorado .  Fitch Ratings said last week that Vodafone’s debt might be
downgraded if it buys Kabel Deutschland. Vodafone Chief
Financial Officer Andy Halford has said that he’d be willing to
accept a lower rating for the right deal.  The company is  rated  four levels above junk by the main
credit-rating companies, or A3 by Moody’s Investors Service and
A- by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch. Liberty Global is rated
 lower , with Moody’s ranking it three levels below investment
grade at Ba3 and Standard & Poor’s placing it four levels below
investment grade at B+.  Telecommunications companies have commanded a 27 percent
takeover premium in the past 12 months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg based on the average of 27 acquisitions
valued at more than $1 billion.  SoftBank Corp. (9984) ’s pending deal
for  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  would be the largest this year. The
Japanese company’s latest offer for Sprint is $21.6 billion for
a 78 percent stake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Smith at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net  