-- Kloeckner Pentaplast Owners Said to Seek Sale Amid Recovery
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2013-06-17T11:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/kloeckner-pentaplast-owners-said-to-seek-sale-amid-recovery-1-.html
Kloeckner Pentaplast GmbH’s owners
are seeking a buyer for the plastic-packaging producer after
boosting profits and cutting debt since they acquired the
company from  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  one year ago, according to
people with knowledge of the matter.  The group of lenders led by hedge fund Strategic Value
Partners is working with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Jefferies
Group LLC to gauge interest among rivals and private-equity
funds, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
talks are private.  A sale process, which may value Kloeckner Pentaplast, based
in Montabaur,  Germany , at more than 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion), may start as early as September, the people said.
Spokesmen for Kloeckner Pentaplast and Strategic Value Partners
declined to comment.  Strategic Value Partners, based in Greenwich,  Connecticut ,
and its partners acquired the 48-year-old company from
Blackstone in June 2012 after Kloeckner Pentaplast breached loan
terms in 2011. The consortium raised enough financing to prepay
800 million euros, cutting Kloeckner Pentaplast’s total debt to
630 million euros from 1.26 billion euros after the lenders
converted their debt into equity. At the same time, the company
also posted rising earnings.  Kloeckner Pentaplast  reported  153 million euros in adjusted
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
on revenue of 1.2 billion euros in the last financial year. It
has about 3,000 employees globally and operations in 12
countries with 18 production sites.  Shrink Wrapping  The company, whose products include shrink-wrapping for
foodstuffs, pipe insulation and packaging for pharmaceuticals,
was originally part of Kloeckner-Werke AG, which is now a unit
of steel product-maker  Salzgitter AG. (SZG)  Kloeckner Pentaplast was
jointly  acquired  by Cinven LLP and JPMorgan Chase & Co. in 2001,
before being sold to Blackstone in 2007, according to the
company’s website.  The company’s 225 million-euro pay-in-kind notes maturing
in 2017 were quoted at 1,252 basis points more than government
debt, down from 1,274 basis points on June 13, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  