-- Komen Breast Cancer Group Selects Salerno as New CEO
-- B y   S a m u e l   A d a m s
-- 2013-06-17T20:20:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/komen-breast-cancer-group-selects-salerno-as-new-ceo.html
Susan G. Komen for the Cure , the
breast-cancer advocacy group whose president resigned last year
after criticism over funding policies, named Judith A. Salerno
as its new president and chief executive officer.  Salerno will succeed the group’s founder, Nancy G. Brinker,
in the top administrative job, the Dallas, Texas-based
organization said today in a statement.  Salerno  is the executive
director and chief operating officer at the  Institute of
Medicine  of the National Academy of Sciences. Previously, she
was deputy director of the U.S. National Institute on Aging,
where she oversaw more than $1 billion in research on issues
such as Alzheimer’s disease.  The leadership change follows a tumultuous period in which
Komen, the largest U.S. breast-cancer research and advocacy
group, withdrew funding early in 2012 for Planned Parenthood
Federation of America, only to quickly reverse its position in
the face of criticism. After the controversy, Brinker apologized
“to the American public.”  “Judy’s years of proven leadership in public policy and
research make her the right choice to lead all aspects of
Komen’s mission,” Linda Custard, the board chairwoman, said in
the statement. “We are delighted that she will be heading our
leadership team and guiding Komen now and into the future.”  Leadership Changes  Brinker announced last August that the group’s president,
Liz Thompson, would resign and a search would begin for a new
chief executive officer and president. Brinker said she would
step down as CEO to focus on the group’s global mission and
development when a new top executive was found. Two board
members also resigned at that time.  Planned Parenthood praised the selection of Salerno.  “We wish Dr. Salerno well in this important new role, and
we’re proud of our continued partnerships with Komen and others
to ensure that all women, regardless of income, have access to
information and high-quality health care to prevent, detect and
treat breast cancer,” Eric Ferrero, the group’s vice president
for communications, said in a statement.  Komen said it has spent more than $1.5 billion in outreach
for breast-cancer education, screening and treatment and $755
million in research since it was founded in 1982 by Brinker
after her sister, Susan G. Komen, died of the disease. The
charity is known for the pink ribbons it first distributed to
breast-cancer survivors and participants of the Komen  New York 
City Race for the Cure in 1991, according to its website.  The Washington-based Institute of Medicine provides medical
advice to policy makers and the public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Adams in New York at 
 sadams69@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  