-- Kuwait Shares Gain Most in Two Weeks as Court Upholds Voting Law
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2013-06-17T10:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/kuwait-shares-gain-most-in-two-weeks-as-court-upholds-voting-law.html
Kuwaiti shares gained the most in
two weeks after a court upheld changes to the voting law that
helped bring an opposition-free parliament to power last year.  The benchmark Kuwait SE Price Index rallied 1.6 percent,
the biggest increase since June 3, to 8,080.55 at the close. The
index rose as much as 2.2 percent, the most since 2009, while
the weighted index climbed as much as 0.8 percent before closing
0.2 percent lower. Combined Group Contracting advanced 1.6
percent to 1,280 fils. There are 1,000 fils in a dinar.  The  Constitutional Court  upheld an Emiri decree that
reduced the number of candidates Kuwaitis can vote for in
parliamentary elections to one from a previous four. The change
last year led opposition groups to boycott a vote in December,
leading to a government that’s faced little opposition as it
puts a $110 billion investment program on fast track.  “The market sees it as a positive move because it sees the
parliament to be elected as pro-economic development,” Jasem
Al-Zeraei, head of institutional sales at NBK Capital, said by
phone. The market expects that limiting voters to choosing one
candidate will “allow for a more balanced parliament,” he
said.  Political clashes between former parliaments and
governments, chosen by the ruling Al-Sabah family, have slowed
 Kuwait ’s development plan, which aims at diversifying the
economy away from oil sales. Bigger Kuwaiti companies didn’t
rally, with Mobile Telecommunications Co. declining 2.9 percent
to 670 fils.  The court also ordered the dissolution of the six-month old
National Assembly and new elections be held.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  