-- Netflix Deal With DreamWorks Shows Shift in Distribution
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-06-17T17:22:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/netflix-deal-with-dreamworks-shows-shift-in-distribution.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s deal to obtain
original programming from  DreamWorks Animation SKG (DWA)  signals the
rising power of alternatives to major networks and studios for
the distribution of movies and television shows, according to
executives and investors in the media industry.  “The answers to Hollywood’s problems are not going to come
from Hollywood,” Beth Comstock, chief marketing officer at
 General Electric Co. (GE) , said at the  Bloomberg Next Big Thing
Summit  in Half Moon Bay, California.  Comstock, who was  previously  president of integrated media
at  NBC Universal , was joined on stage by Barry Schuler, a
partner at DFJ Growth Fund and former AOL Inc. chief executive
officer, and  Roger McNamee , co-founder of private equity firm
Elevation Partners. All three agreed that traditional
distribution channels like cable and satellite are being
disrupted by on-demand services such as Netflix that are
available on a variety of mobile devices.  The multiyear agreement with DreamWorks is the biggest deal
Los Gatos, California-based Netflix has ever signed for original
content, the company said. It gives Netflix access to new series
from the creators of franchises such as “Shrek” and
“Madagascar,” adding to a growing stockpile of exclusive video
with more than 300 hours of new programming.  `Disrupted Rapidly'  Advancements in technology and distribution are beneficial
to smaller studios, which can reach consumers in new ways, said
Schuler. They still have to figure out how to make money though,
he said.  “We are in a period where we are seeing the traditional
media model being disrupted rapidly,” said Schuler.  McNamee, who previously helped start investment firm Silver
Lake Partners, said that the sports networks, namely ESPN, are
losing exclusive rights to top sports as more consumers turn
away from cable and purchase the games to watch on smartphones
and tablets.  “Instead of wasting money on cable, you just buy the ones
you really want,” McNamee said. He acknowledged that cable
isn’t going away because it remains “the pipeline for the
Internet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  