-- N. Korea’s Peace Talks Proposal Meets With U.S. Skepticism
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-06-17T08:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/north-korea-s-peace-treaty-talks-proposal-meets-u-s-skepticism.html
North Korea ’s proposal for bilateral
peace talks spurred a skeptical response from the U.S., days
after the totalitarian regime failed to follow through on an
approach to  South Korea  for discussions over a shut factory
park.  “We’ll judge them by their actions, not by the nice words
that we heard,” White House Chief of Staff Denis Mcdonough said
on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program. “The bottom line is
they’re not going to be able to talk their way out of the very
significant sanctions they’re under now, sanctions that  Russia 
supported and, very importantly, that China supported.”  North Korea’s offer yesterday was the second time this
month it has reached out, after it requested talks with the
South over a jointly-operated Gaeseong industrial complex.
Tensions on the Korean peninsula were heightened earlier this
year by the regime’s February nuclear weapons test, with the
 United Nations  slapping the North with tougher sanctions.  “The talks with the U.S. will not happen, as North Korea
has no desire to denuclearize in a way that the Americans want
it to,”  Andrei Lankov , a professor at Seoul’s Kookmin
University, said by phone today. North Korea may instigate
another round of crisis rhetoric if it doesn’t secure
negotiations, with aid its ultimate goal from talks, he said.  South Korea’s benchmark Kospi  stock index  fell 0.3 percent
to close at 1,883.10 while the won ended unchanged against the
dollar.  Conflict Resolution  There is “virtually no possibility” of talks between the
U.S. and North Korea, especially at the exclusion of the South,
Unification Minister Ryoo Kihl Jae told lawmakers today in
parliament.  North Korea’s envoy Choe Ryong Hae told Chinese President
Xi Jinping last month his country wants to find ways to resolve
conflicts via talks. In a statement about Choe’s meeting with
another top Chinese official in Beijing, Xinhua News Agency said
the North “is willing to accept advice from the Chinese side
and carry out dialogue.”  Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Zhang Yesui will meet his
North Korean counterpart Kim Kye Kwan in Beijing on June 19 for
talks, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said at a
briefing in Beijing today.  “ China  is highly concerned about the situation on the
Korean Peninsula and has been pushing all parties concerned to
resume dialogue and consultation to solve this issue,” Hua
said.  Reopening Gaeseong  The North’s June 6 suggestion of “high-level” talks with
South Korea over reopening Gaeseong came one day before U.S.
President  Barack Obama  met Xi in  California . The leaders had
“quite a bit of alignment” on stopping North Korea’s nuclear
program, according to White House national security adviser Tom Donilon.  Obama called South Korean President Park Geun Hye today to
discuss the North Korean issue and to share the outcome of his
meeting with Xi, as Park readies to meet the Chinese president
in Beijing on June 27-30, Park’s office said in a statement on
its website. Obama told Park that Xi emphasized the importance
of resolution through dialogue, according to the statement.  ‘Credible Negotiations’  Glyn Davies , the top U.S. envoy on North Korea, will hold
talks with his Japanese and South Korean counterparts this week
in  Washington , according to the U.S. State Department.  “As we have made clear, our desire is to have credible
negotiations with the North Koreans, but those talks must
involve North Korea living up to its obligations to the world,
including compliance with UN Security Council resolutions, and
ultimately result in denuclearization,” said Caitlin Hayden, a
National Security Council spokeswoman, in an e-mailed statement.  North Korea’s relations with the outside world haven’t
improved under Kim Jong Un, who succeeded his father in 2011. A
rocket launch last year broke a food-aid deal agreed to with the
U.S. in February 2012.  Kim’s regime scrapped a planned meeting last week with
South Korea, which would have been the first such inter-Korean
dialogue in six years, after a dispute over who would lead each
delegation. Both sides had agreed to discuss reopening Gaeseong,
closed since the North withdrew its workers in April.  Proposing talks with the U.S. may be North Korea’s tactic
to pressure the South, Yang Moo Jin, a professor at the
University of North Korean Studies in  Seoul , said by telephone
yesterday.  Six-Party Talks  “Strategically, North Korea is saying it wants to settle
the issues raised by the U.S., including denuclearization and
peace talks, with the U.S.” and not with South Korea, he said.  The Obama administration and the South Korean government
have emphasized the importance of the six-party process members
in sending a unified message to the North. The U.S. insists the
regime live up to past commitments to denuclearize before six-party talks, suspended since 2008, can resume.  If agreed, North Korea’s talks with the U.S. would include
a formal peace treaty to replace the the 1950-1953 Korean War
armistice that has technically left the peninsula in a state of
war.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  