-- Novo Drops as New Lilly Drug Threatens Victoza: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-06-17T09:54:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/novo-drops-as-new-lilly-drug-threatens-victoza-copenhagen-mover.html
Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB)  fell the most among
benchmark stocks in Copenhagen trading after Bank of America
Merrill Lynch said the diabetes drug company’s Victoza medicine
faces “a real threat” from an  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  product.  Novo fell as much as 1.9 percent, the biggest drop in the
Nasdaq OMX Copenhagen 20 index. The stock retreated 1.5 percent
to 918 kroner at 11:34 a.m. in the Danish capital, with trading
volume at 47 percent of the three-month daily average. The stock
was also today’s biggest loser in the  Stoxx Health Care index  of
35 companies.  Sales of Victoza, which mimics a hormone called GLP-1 and
stimulates natural insulin production, jumped 35 percent in the
first quarter, making the drug one of Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based
Novo’s biggest profit contributors. BofA Merrill Lynch cut its
 recommendation  on Novo to neutral from buy, saying data due to
be presented at this month’s  American Diabetes Association 
meeting will show that Lilly’s experimental drug dulaglutide has
potential to wrest market share from Victoza.  “Overall we believe headline data for dulaglutide suggests
a profile that may be better than Victoza,” BofA Merrill Lynch
analysts, including Sachin Jain, said in a note. “Our forecasts
now assume dulaglutide launch in 2015 and Victoza slowly
declining thereafter.”  Sales of Victoza will peak at 12 billion kroner ($2.15
billion), the bank said, lowering a previous estimate of 21
billion kroner.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  in February declined
to approve another of Novo’s diabetes medicines, called Tresiba,
saying the company needed to provide more studies to determine
cardiovascular risks.  “With investor concerns on the insulin franchise already
present following the delay to U.S. launch of Tresiba, we
believe the additional competitive pressure to Victoza confirmed
in abstracts is likely to cap near-term  share price upside  from
here,” the analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  