-- Obama Tells Belfast Audience They Are Example of Power of Peace
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-06-17T10:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/obama-tells-belfast-audience-they-are-example-of-power-of-peace.html
President  Barack Obama  invoked a
traditional blessing to promise the people of Northern Ireland
that in their efforts to maintain peace the U.S. “will always
be a wind at your back.”  Obama arrived in the province for a two-day summit of
leaders of the Group of Eight nations this morning, 15 years
after the 1998 Good Friday Agreement helped end decades of
sectarian strife between Catholics and Protestants.  He began the visit by telling students gathered at
 Belfast ’s Waterfront Convention Center that throughout the world
their country is now “an example for those who seek a peace of
their own.”  The civil war in Syria, which threatens to exacerbate
sectarian tensions between Sunni and Shiite Muslims in the
Middle East, is shaping up as a dominant issue at the summit,
which begins today in Lough Erne, Northern Ireland.  For those now “in the grip of conflict,” Obama said,
“You’re their blueprint to follow. You are their proof of
what’s possible.”  The economic agenda for G-8 leaders also includes steps to
combat illegal tax evasion and legal tax avoidance through
profit-shifting among countries. Obama will push for increasing
international disclosure requirements for individuals and
institutions.  On the sidelines, Obama also will meet with European
leaders to discuss a transatlantic trade pact the U.S. and
European Union are preparing to negotiate.  Putin Meeting  One of his individual discussions will be later today with
Russian President Vladimir Putin, who has supported Bashar al-Assad’s regime in  Syria ’s civil war.  The summit includes leaders from the U.S., U.K.,  France ,
Germany,  Italy , Japan,  Canada  and Russia.  First Lady Michelle Obama and the president’s daughters,
Malia and Sasha, who accompanied him to Belfast, will travel to
Dublin, Ireland, for the duration of the summit. Their itinerary
includes a tour of Trinity College, Ireland’s oldest university,
and archives the college has gathered that document the Obamas’
Irish ancestry. They will also attend a performance of Celtic
dance company Riverdance.  Obama and his family will continue on to Berlin with an
itinerary that includes a presidential speech at the city’s
Brandenburg Gate and a meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel before returning to the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Sligo, Ireland, at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Belfast, Northern Ireland at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  