-- Obamacare Rollout Seen Slowed by Confusion Over Benefits
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-06-17T14:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/obamacare-rollout-seen-slowed-by-confusion-over-benefits.html
Judith Mayer Lynn, uninsured and
battling breast cancer, should be a fan of the Affordable Care
Act. Instead, she barely knows about it.  The 56-year-old  Nevada  woman was unaware of subsidies in
the law that will help people like her buy coverage in 2014, she
said in an interview. Lynn didn’t know the act requires insurers
to pay for prescription drugs, hospital stays and other services
she’s spent the last two years scrimping to afford. Nor did she
realize she can no longer be denied a policy due to her illness.  Told of the benefits, Lynn remained unconvinced, skeptical
of insurers and government alike. “It’s a joke,” she said.
“There’s going to be loopholes in all of these provisions.”  Such ignorance about the 2010 law is hardly unusual. An
April poll by the Kaiser Family Foundation found that 40 percent
of Americans weren’t even sure the act remained law. That’s
raising concerns among supporters that many who stand to gain
the most from  Obamacare  won’t sign up. A weak showing could
undercut the act’s effectiveness, handing a political weapon to
its Republican foes as the U.S. Congress rolls toward mid-term
elections next year.  “We haven’t seen a lot of energy from the administration
on public education,” said  Henry J. Aaron , a health-policy
analyst at the Brookings Institution in  Washington . “They ceded
the field to those who were largely hostile to the bill to frame
it in the public’s mind.”  100 Days  Supporters don’t have much time left. In just over 100 days
-- on Oct. 1 -- states and the federal government are due to
open new websites and call-in lines, known as exchanges, created
under the act to offer subsidized benefits to the nation’s 50
million uninsured.  The law’s backers are starting to respond. Organizing for
Action, an advocacy group born of President  Barack Obama ’s
campaign, debuted a  television ad  today as part of a “seven-figure” media buy to spread the word. Enroll America, another
nonprofit group supporting the enrollment drive, will hold a
series of strategy sessions this week with volunteers around the
U.S., a spokesman, Ellis Brachman, said by e-mail.  Even in California, one of the states farthest ahead in
building an exchange, many don’t understand the law, said Erica
Pham, a health-policy attorney at Oakland-based Kaiser
Permanente, the nation’s biggest nonprofit insurer. Many either
don’t know about the law or mistakenly think it will offer them
free health-care, she told an insurance industry conference in
Las Vegas last week.  California Selling  California  plans to spend more than $100 million on
outreach efforts. Still, local activists fret officials are
relying too much on media buys and not enough on a grass-roots
effort to motivate the uninsured.  “This is not one of those ‘you build it and they will
come’ situations,” said Samuel Chu, president of One LA, a
nonprofit group in Los Angeles. “This is really about
organizing a community.”  Opponents of the legislation have outspent supporters by 5-to-1 on TV ads, according to advertising analyst Kantar Media.  That, combined with the general lack of awareness of the
law, spells trouble unless the Obama team counters with a strong
offensive, said Karen Pollitz, a senior fellow at the Menlo
Park, California-based foundation who formerly worked as an
Obama aide.  Opening Act  The Kaiser poll “underscores that a lot of Americans think
there isn’t going to be health reform,” Pollitz said in a
telephone interview. “When the opening act begins, people who
have been engaged in outreach and consumer assistance are going
to have to spend a considerable amount of time trying to
overcome misinformation.”  It’s only recently that the administration started putting
resources toward promoting enrollment. In April, U.S. health
secretary Kathleen Sebelius said it didn’t make sense for the
U.S. to contact the uninsured long before they can actually sign
up for coverage.  The Department of Health and Human Services has focused
most of its energy in recent months on building and testing
computer systems for the exchanges, which will serve small
businesses and people not offered coverage through work.  “Our outreach will kick into high gear this summer leading
into the fall, when we’ll be talking to Americans across the
country to prepare them to enroll in coverage beginning October
1,” said Joanne Peters, an HHS spokeswoman, in an e-mail. “Our
deliberative tactics build on the lessons we’ve learned,
including reaching people with the right message at the right
time, when it’s time for them to act.”  Navigator Grants  In April, the administration announced $54 million in
grants for groups of people called “navigators,” whose job
will be helping steer people through the law’s new options.
Another $150 million will go to local health clinics to assist
uninsured patients in signing up.  The uphill climb to get people enrolled was a chief topic
at the insurance conference sponsored by America’s Health
Insurance Plans, an industry trade group.  “We’ve got an awareness problem,” John Kaelin, a
Washington-based adviser with consulting firm Avalere Health,
told the audience. The confusion is “one of our essential
challenges in terms of being successful at this.”  Lynn, the Nevada woman suffering from breast cancer, said
she doesn’t hold out hope that the law will ever help her.  Not Covered  A former school bus driver from Pahrump, an hour’s drive
west of Las Vegas, Lynn was diagnosed with advanced breast
cancer in 2011, after finding a lump under her right arm. She
was uninsured at the time, she said: The school district where
she worked considered her a part-timer, ineligible for benefits.  Since then, Lynn has endured two years of chemotherapy,
radiation treatments and surgery to treat cancer that had spread
to her lymph nodes and spine.  She’s had help from  Access to Healthcare Network , a Reno-based organization that negotiates discounts from medical
providers on behalf of the uninsured. Still, Lynn estimates
she’s had to raise about $50,000 for her treatment, helped by
friends and family, all the while haggling with radiation
clinics, oncologists, hospitals and billing companies.  Private carriers have told her she’s “uninsurable”
because of the cancer and Lynn said she has too many assets to
qualify for the state Medicaid program for low-income residents.  The health-care law, though, should help out. Starting Jan.
1, the law bans insurers from denying people based on medical
conditions. Additionally, people earning between poverty-level
wages ($11,500 for a single person) and four times the poverty
level (about $46,000) will be eligible for tax credits to defray
the cost of coverage.  Poverty Level  The subsidies get more generous for people under three
times the poverty level and are especially so at the lowest
income levels. In California, the aid will be enough to
eliminate the monthly premium on some plans for those earning
less than 1.5 times the poverty guidelines, according to Covered
California, the state’s exchange. Nevada hasn’t announced its
exchange premiums yet.  In an interview at an Access to Healthcare office in Las
Vegas, Lynn said she was unaware of those benefits -- and didn’t
trust Obama to produce them anyway. Insurers will still find a
way to exclude coverage, she said.  She recalled one of her surgeons telling her that he was
leaving the business because the health-care law dictates what
he can charge patients -- something the legislation doesn’t do.
She also said she was worried she would be forced to spend money
buying inadequate insurance just to meet the law’s requirement
that all Americans buy coverage or pay a penalty.  Government Penalty  “I am afraid I am going to be penalized and the government
is going to come and take my assets,” Lynn said.  Such fears are common, said Sherri Rice, chief executive
officer at Access to Healthcare. When the nonprofit group began
asking members about the act last month, about half knew little
about its provisions and another quarter were “furious” about
it, she said.  Uninsured Americans are used to carriers offering them
expensive policies riddled with holes, Rice said. Now many think
the law forces them to buy those same plans.  “There is a lot of distrust,” she said in a telephone
interview. “They need to start saturating people with
information. Otherwise, people will just let it slide by when it
comes time to enroll.”  Nevada Campaign  Nevada will spend $5.4 million on a campaign over the next
15 months, John Hager, executive director of the state exchange,
told the insurance conference last week. California’s exchange
plans to distribute $37 million to navigators and other entities
to help the uninsured and will invest $86 million in outreach.  California buoyed supporters of the law last month when it
announced that premiums for individual plans had come in lower
than many predicted. That raised hopes the markets will attract
a large customer base with affordable rates, albeit with the
trade-off of higher deductibles and narrow provider networks.  “You want outreach and communications with real intensity
in the six months when people can go online and sign up,” said
Tara McGuinness, a White House spokeswoman, referring to the
open enrollment period that runs through March. “We know that
if we want to reach people and break through, we’re going to
have to have them hear about the new marketplaces multiple times
from multiple sources.”  Republican Resistance  The enrollment drive has been hampered in some Republican-leaning states where governors have refused to build their own
insurance exchanges, said Kaelin, the Avalere consultant. While
the Obama administration has stepped in with a federally run
market, Republicans in Congress have denied requests for more
money to promote the program.  Efforts by Sebelius to drum up support for the law through
private organizations, meanwhile, have come under attack.
Earlier this month, Sebelius was accused by Senator Orrin Hatch,
a Utah Republican, of “bullying” companies that her agency
regulates into supporting  Enroll America , the Washington-based
nonprofit that is anchoring the national drive to get people to
use the law’s insurance marketplaces.  Sebelius told a House committee that she talked with New
Brunswick, New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and one other
company about supporting the group. She said she didn’t ask for
financial contributions and that the requests were no different
than those of officials under President George W. Bush when he
expanded the Medicare program a decade ago.  Ohio Outreach  To spread the word on Obama’s law, groups like the
Universal Health Care Action Network of  Ohio  have been traveling
their states and meeting with people at churches, community
centers and senior centers.  UHCAN had hoped the Obama administration would steer
exchange funding its way, rather than to Governor John Kasich, a
Republican who opposes the health law, said Kathleen Gmeiner, a
project director with the group. So far, it hasn’t happened, she
said in a phone interview.  Enroll America has expanded to 40 staff members. So far,
the group has focused on identifying the uninsured in order to
determine the best way to reach them, said Anne Filipic, the
organization leader, in an interview last month. It surveyed
about 1,800 people last year and has run focus groups to test
marketing messages, she said.  By the end of this month, Enroll America hopes to have a
statistical model that will help volunteers pinpoint which doors
to knock on. Neighborhood visits should begin after that, along
with community events designed to highlight the law’s benefits.  It can’t come soon enough, said Aaron, of the Brookings
Institution.  For the last couple of years, the Obama administration has
done “too little to explain what was in the law, and to
mobilize support,” Aaron said. “The explanation, I think, was
they were too busy fighting -- with the Democratic Party over
details since it was theirs to design, and with the Republicans,
who indicated they wanted no part of it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  