-- Lockheed Martin Says F-35 Production Gain to Reduce Costs
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-06-17T13:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/lockheed-martin-says-f-35-production-gain-to-reduce-costs.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  said it has
sufficient time to more than double production of the F-35 Joint
Strike Fighter when needed, with higher building rates allowing
cost reductions of about 30 percent.  U.S. and international buyers will help spur output to more
than 100 planes annually by about 2020 from 36 aircraft this
year, Steve O’Bryan, Lockheed Martin’s vice president for the
F-35 program, said in an interview at the  Paris Air Show .
Efficiencies from the growth will down a single fighter’s
production costs to about $85 million then from $120 million
now, he said.  The Pentagon is in final talks with Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin on several billion dollars in orders for
the next two annual batches of F-35 production amid efforts to
make up for earlier delays stemming from cost and technology
disputes. The new contracts may exceed 70 planes.  “This is a program at a tipping point,” O’Bryan said. “I
am cautiously optimistic.”  The U.S., which has bought 29 of the jets annually in
recent years, will increase order volume in 2015, with purchases
from abroad also helping drive deliveries. The eighth year of
production is scheduled to include building F-35s for Norway,
Italy,  Japan  and  Israel . Lockheed Martin already has adequate
production capacity in place to build 60 planes a year, O’Bryan
said.  “We are ahead of that bow wave and we feel confident we
can do that,” O’Bryan said.  Lockheed Martin also is competing in  South Korea  for an
order of as many as 60 planes, with the  Boeing Co. (BA)  F-15 and the
Eurofighter venture’s Typhoon model in the running. Singapore
also is looking at buying the single-engine Lockheed jet,
O’Bryan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in Paris via 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  