-- Mongolia Taps North Korea Oil Potential to Ease Russian Grip
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-06-18T08:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/mongolia-taps-north-korean-oil-potential-to-ease-russia-reliance.html
A Mongolian company has tapped one
of the world’s most closed markets by taking a stake in a North
Korean  oil refinery , to help  Asia ’s fastest growing economy ease
its energy reliance on Russia and  China .  HBOil JSC, an oil trading and refining company based in
Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, said it acquired 20 percent of the state-run entity operating  North Korea ’s Sungri refinery, according to
an e-mailed statement yesterday. It intends to supply crude to
Sungri, which won’t be fully operational for up to a year, and
export the refined products to Mongolia.  “Mongolia has had diplomatic relations with North Korea
for many years,” Ulziisaikhan Khudree, HBOil’s chief executive
officer, said in a June 12 interview in Ulaanbaatar. “There are
certain risks, but other countries do business with North Korea
so I am quite optimistic the project will be successful.”  The investment comes as ex-communist Mongolia seeks to
power its mining-led boom while offering sanctions-hit North
Korea a bridge to economic reforms. Since Swiss-educated Kim Jong Un took over the leadership of the totalitarian regime in
December 2011, Mongolia has pledged to help its Soviet-era ally
implement an economic transition similar to its own of the
1990s.  In March, Mongolia offered to play peacemaker after North
Korea said it’s in a “state of war” with its neighbor to the
south.  Landlocked Country  Mongolia, a landlocked country squeezed between  Russia  and
China, adopted democracy and free elections in 1990, opening up
to foreign investment that has focused mainly on its commodity
riches. Rio Tinto Group Plc has invested about $6.2 billion in
the country’s Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold mine that’s due to
start exporting this month.  Although Mongolia has become one of China’s main suppliers
of coking coal, used to make steel, the nation of 2.9 million
has limited reserves of crude oil and relies on its two
neighbors for fuel, which can periodically lead to shortages.  Mongolia has in the last year encouraged what it saw as
signs of economic change in North Korea. After a meeting with
Kim Young Nam, the North Korean president of the Presidium of
the Supreme People’s Assembly, in September, Mongolian President
Tsakhia Elbegdorj said he saw the isolated nation taking steps
towards economic reform.  Outside of Mongolia, North Korea’s Kim Jong Un has so far
failed to improve international relations since succeeding his
father. A rocket launch last year broke a food-aid deal agreed
with the U.S. in February 2012. North Korea’s proposal for peace
talks with the U.S. on June 16 was met with skepticism.  Economic Change  The HBOil deal looks like a “one-off” at this point as
rhetoric for economic change in North Korea has not translated
into real investment -- a sign that “real reform” has yet to
come, said  Daniel Pinkston , a Seoul-based analyst with the
 International Crisis Group .  Still, like Mongolia, North Korea needs to diversify its
sources of supply, technology and investment away from China,
and business offers that try to improve its own energy security
problems will be seen as favorable by the Kim regime, Pinkston
said. “I can see all the incentives for North Korea to desire
this kind of arrangement,” he said.  Under the transaction, worth as much as $10 million, the
Mongolian Stock Exchange-listed HBOil would swap shares for full
ownership of Ninox Hydrocarbons (L) Berhad, a private Malaysian
company that owns 20 percent of KOEC International Inc., and
issue convertible notes to fund investment at Sungri.  Exploration Rights  The rest of KOEC International is held by North Korea’s
national oil company, Korea Oil Exploration Corp., which also
has oil production and exploration rights in North Korea.  “This is a chance to take an equity holding in a foreign
entity, and will allow us to import petroleum products, which
could be lower than the current price,” said HBOil’s Khudree.  HBOil jumped by the daily limit of 15 percent to close at
253 tugrik (18 cents) on the Mongolian stock exchange today.  The deal will be the first purchase by a Mongolian-listed
company of a foreign asset, according to Joseph Naemi, chief
executive officer of the Ninox parent, Ninox Energy Ltd. The
company is in compliance with international sanctions levied
against North Korea, he said.  “If the sanctions change, and if they target the oil and
gas industry, that would put us out of business, and we will
have to comply,” Naemi said. “That is a risk one takes.”  Naemi said he had briefed his North Korean partners on the
transaction and that “they are supportive.” No one was
available to speak about the deal at North Korea’s embassy in
Ulaanbaatar, which is in the middle of a renovation.  Under Orders  North Korean entities are currently under orders “from the
top” to boost international deals, attract foreign trade and
earn more, according to Pinkston.  North Korea has three onshore oil basins with “proven
working petroleum systems” and the country is conducting
exploration for new fields, BDSec brokerage, Mongolia’s largest
and the underwriter of the bonds HBOil plans to offer, said in a
note to investors yesterday.  The Sungri refinery, located in the Special Economic Zone
of Rason City in North Korea’s northeast, has a refining
capacity of 2 million tons a year and is connected to the
 Russian railways  system, HBOil said in its release.  Oil production in Mongolia rose 42 percent to 3.64 million
barrels in 2012 compared with a year earlier, and it exported
almost all of that, according to government data. The country,
which has no major oil refineries, consumed about 22,000 barrels
a day of refined petroleum products in 2011, according to  CIA’s
World Factbook . That is equivalent to about 1.1 million tons a
year.  Alternative Proposal  HBOil has an alternative proposal for delivering petroleum
products to Mongolia. The company will offer to sell the North
Korean refined oil to the far east of Russia, where there are no
local refineries, Naemi said. In exchange, Russian  oil
companies , most of which own refineries, could send their
petroleum products to Mongolia, a shorter route than delivering
cargo to the country’s far east, Naemi said.  “We can deliver what they need on the east coast of
Russia, and they can deliver the same like product into
Mongolia,” Naemi said. “From a Russian perspective it makes
sense, so the swap strategy would be the ideal scenario, but
sometimes that does not happen.”  HBOil, which recycles fuel used by mining companies in
Mongolia, is also “studying the potential to expand its oil
product processing and manufacturing business into” North
Korea, the company said in the statement.  HBOil is part-owned by New York-based private equity firm
Firebird Management LLC, according to CEO Khudree. Firebird also
owns stakes in Mongolian companies including coal miner Sharyn Gol.  Additionally, HBOil has signed an option to buy 51 percent
of Blacktip Energy Inc., another Ninox Energy Ltd. subsidiary
and owner of Korex Ltd., which is an offshore explorer focused
on the sea east of North Korea, it said.  Mongolia’s economy grew 12.3 percent last year, compared
with 17.5 percent in 2011, according to its central bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulaanbaatar at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  