-- Monsoon Covering India in Record Time May Boost Rice, Sugar
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2013-06-17T11:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/monsoon-covering-india-in-record-time-to-boost-rice-sugar-crops.html
Monsoon, which accounts for 70
percent of  India ’s annual rainfall, covered the entire country
in a record time, accelerating plantings of crops from rice to
soybeans and cotton.  Rains covered the whole of India yesterday, the earliest
ever and ahead of the normal date of July 15, said D.S. Pai,
head of the long-range forecasting division at the  India
Meteorological Department . Monsoon showers have been 48 percent
above a 50-year average since they arrived on June 1, the
forecaster said on its website.  The early arrival of rainfall has helped ease a drinking
water shortage and relieved crops threatened by the worst
drought in four decades in India’s western region. A bumper
harvest may help  Asia ’s third-biggest economy curb  food prices 
and revive economic growth from the lowest level in a decade.
Agriculture accounts for about a fifth of the economy, while 55
percent of the farm land does not have access to irrigation.  “Early rainfall augurs well for all rainfed crops
including soybean, cotton, sugar cane, rice, corn,” P. Chengal
Reddy, secretary general of the  Consortium of Indian Farmers
Association , said by phone from the southern state of  Andhra
Pradesh . “Early and more than normal rains will recharge the
groundwater and help farmers who are dependent on irrigation.”  Spatial Distribution  Rainfall will be 98 percent of the 50-year average of 89
centimeters (35 inches) in the four months through September,
the weather bureau said on June 14. It defines normal
precipitation as 96 percent to 104 percent of the average
received between 1951 and 2000. Showers in July, the wettest
month of the season, will be 101 percent of the average and more
than the 87 percent last year, it said.  A robust winter crop production and performance of the
monsoon so far augur well for economic growth, the  Reserve Bank 
of India said today, while keeping key  interest rates  unchanged.  “The spatial and temporal distribution of rainfall over
the next three months will be crucial in determining the
performance of agriculture,” the bank said.  The sowing of the soybean crop, the main oilseed sown in
the monsoon season, has commenced in the central Indian state of
 Madhya Pradesh  with the earlier-than-normal arrival of rains,
Rajesh Agrawal, spokesman of the Soybeans Processors Association
of India, said by phone from Indore. The state grows more than
50 percent of the nation’s crop.  Rain Dependence  “The entire planting will be completed in a week’s time,
which has probably never happened in the past,” he said.
“Normally, the rains arrive by June end and the sowing extends
until middle or late July. This is a good beginning and will
have good results if we have good follow up rains. The early
rains will boost yields.”  More than 235 million farmers in India, the world’s second-largest producer of cotton, rice and sugar cane, depend on rain
for irrigating crops. The monsoon reached the southern state of
Kerala on June 1, two days ahead of the onset date forecast by
the weather body.  “Early signs of a plentiful monsoon also suggest still
elevated vegetable prices should pull back, further increasing
the central bank’s room for manoeuvre,”  Richard Iley , the chief
economist for Asia at BNP Paribas SA, said in an e-mailed
report. “Rains and the rupee will determine whether RBI will
move at its policy review but rates should slowly fall by up to
100 basis points over the next year or so.”  Rupee Slump  Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  kept the repurchase rate at 7.25
percent after a plunge in the rupee to a record low threatened
to stoke inflation. The rupee’s fall of about 6 percent versus
the dollar this quarter is the steepest in Asia and may fan
import costs in a country with the second-highest consumer
inflation in the Group of 20 nations. The wholesale-price index
increased 4.7 percent in May from a year earlier, a 43-month
low. At the same time, a separate  consumer inflation  gauge
climbed 9.31 percent.  Rice has been planted in 794,000 hectares (1.96 million
acres) as of June 14 while oilseeds have been sown in 157,000
hectares, the farm ministry said. Sugar cane was planted in 4.21
million hectares and cotton in 1.58 million hectares, it said.  Rainfall in August will be 96 percent of the average,
compared with 101 percent last year, the bureau said on June 14.
Northwest India, the main wheat, rice and sugar cane region may
get 94 percent of average rainfall this year, while the central
region, the biggest soybean grower, may see precipitation of as
much as 98 percent of the average, the bureau said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in  New Delhi  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  