-- Montreal Mayor Arrested by Quebec Anti-Corruption Police
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-06-17T20:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/montreal-mayor-arrested-at-home-by-quebec-anti-corruption-police.html
Montreal  Mayor  Michael Applebaum 
faces 14 criminal charges, including fraud and breach of trust,
after being arrested today by Quebec’s anti-corruption task
force as part of a bribery case.  The charges are linked to two real-estate transactions that
involved “tens of thousands of dollars” in illegal payments
between 2006 and 2011, Robert Lafreniere, head of Quebec’s anti-corruption unit, told reporters at a televised press conference
in Montreal today. Applebaum was arrested at his home, police
said in a  statement  posted on the provincial government’s
website.  Charges against the mayor of  Canada ’s second most populous
city also include conspiracy and corruption in municipal
affairs, Lafreniere said. Two other people arrested today face
another nine charges, according to the police statement.  The arrests come as a government-appointed commission
investigates the granting and management of public construction
contracts in  Quebec . The hearings, which began in May 2012, are
televised daily in Quebec.  Jonathan Abecassis, a spokesman for Applebaum, didn’t
immediately return voice-mail messages left today at his work
number and on his mobile phone regarding the arrest.  Other investigations regarding the City of Montreal
continue, and further arrests in connection with the two real-estate projects at the center of today’s raids are possible,
Lafreniere told RDI television in an interview after the press
conference. The payments were made to influence permits and
zoning decisions, he said.  ‘Reprehensible Acts’  “No one is above the law,” Lafreniere said in the RDI
interview. “If there are other people who committed
reprehensible acts, they can be sure that we will be on their
case.”  Applebaum became interim mayor in November after his
predecessor, Gerald Tremblay, quit amid reports that his party
received illegal contributions. Tremblay denied the allegations,
which emerged during testimony at the hearings.  Upon taking office, Applebaum, the city’s first English-speaking mayor in a century, pledged to “regain the
confidence” of citizens as he vowed not to run in the next
elections, which are scheduled for Nov. 3.  Gilles Vaillancourt, former mayor of Laval, Quebec’s third-largest city, was among 37 people  arrested  last month and
charged with crimes including fraud and gangsterism. Laval is
now under the trusteeship of the province.  Should Resign  Sylvain Gaudreault , Quebec’s municipal affairs minister,
told RDI television in an interview that Applebaum should
resign. “I am calling on Mr. Applebaum to take his
responsibilities,” Gaudreault said. “The best thing to do in
this context is to leave his post.”  Premier Pauline Marois echoed Gaudreault’s comments at a
press conference in Montreal, saying “it would be preferable”
for Applebaum to leave.  Quebec won’t put the city under trusteeship because current
members of the municipal council haven’t been accused of any
wrongdoing, Marois said. Calling early elections is out of the
question, she also said.  “The elected officials who are here now have shown they
can work together to manage Montreal properly,” Marois said.  Anti-corruption officials raided Montreal’s city hall and
six borough offices on Feb. 20. One of the borough offices was
the one that Applebaum represented for several years.  Applebaum told RDI television on the day of the raids that
he met with investigators and wasn’t a target of the
investigation. Applebaum said he answered all questions and that
his administration was cooperating with police.  Quebec’s anti-corruption unit, known by the French-language
acronym UPAC, has now arrested 106 people since its inception in
February 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  