-- Emerging Stocks Advance Led by Russian Shares Before Fed
-- B y   J e s s i c a   S u m m e r s   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-06-17T22:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/most-emerging-stocks-advance-ahead-of-fed-meeting-gs-tumbles.html
Emerging-market stocks rose a second
day, led by Russian shares, as investors awaited this week’s
 Federal Reserve  policy meeting. Turkey’s lira slumped after riot
police stepped up their crackdown on protesters.  Stocks  pared gains  on concern the Fed may taper stimulus.
Russia’s Micex Index added 2 percent as OAO Novatek paced a
rally in commodity shares. OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA
tumbled to a record-low, leading losses among companies
controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista . Turkey’s lira
fell for the first time in a week. Venezuela’s bond yields rose
as the nation’s credit rating was cut by  Standard & Poor’s .  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.4 percent to
957.12, trimming a gain of as much as 0.6 percent. The U.S.
Federal Open Market Committee starts a two-day policy meeting
tomorrow. The developing-nation measure has fallen 8.7 percent
since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said May 22 that U.S. policy
makers “could” scale back economic stimulus efforts if the
employment outlook showed “sustainable improvement.”  “The question is whether or not there’s enough
encouragement from the Fed this week,” said Bruce McCain, who
helps oversee more than $20 billion as chief investment
strategist at the private-banking unit of KeyCorp in Cleveland.
“My guess is that the Fed will steer a middle course. They
won’t be overly discouraging, but they won’t be overly
encouraging to those who’ve used the Fed’s program as a crutch
to avoid looking at other arguments for owning stocks.”  Paring Gains  Equities pared gains after the Financial Times reported
that Fed Chairman Bernanke is likely to signal the central bank
is close to tapering its $85 billion in asset purchases at the
conclusion of a policy meeting June 19.  Energy and phone shares led gains among  10 groups  in the
emerging-market index today. The broad measure has lost 9.3
percent this year, compared with a 10 percent advance in the
MSCI World Index of developed-country stocks.  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund rose 0.9 percent to $39.67. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
added 1.2 percent to 27.29.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa fell as OGX slid the most in almost a
year after Veja magazine reported Batista is selling more assets
to raise funds. The stock slumped 15 percent, while miner MMX
Mineracao & Metalicos SA plunged 14 percent and port developer
LLX Logistica SA lost 8.4 percent.  Venezuela’s Downgrade  Yields on Venezuela’s benchmark dollar bonds due 2027
surged 45 basis points, or 0.45 percentage point, to 11.40
percent at 5:04 p.m. in  New York . S&P downgraded the nation,
citing concern that division within President Nicolas Maduro’s
administration may impair the government’s ability to shore up a
sputtering economy.  Russian stocks climbed for a second day as UBS AG named the
country its preferred emerging equity market in the region on
valuations and economic potential. OAO Novatek, the nation’s
second-biggest natural-gas producer, jumped 5.4 percent as Bank
of America Corp. raised the stock to buy.  The Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index had
the biggest decline among major emerging-market indexes, falling
1.3 percent, as  Akbank TAS (AKBNK)  and Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS led
banks lower.  OTP Bank Nyrt. and Magyar Telekom Nyrt. led the slump in
Hungary’s benchmark stock index after Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga  said the government proposes to raise taxes on financial
transactions, telecommunications and mining.  Chinese Shares  The Shanghai Composite Index fell for the ninth time in 10
days, dragged down by property developers and material
producers, after Beijing tightened rules for real estate
projects to contain a rebound in  home prices . China Vanke Co.,
the nation’s biggest developer, slumped on speculation stricter
property curbs will hurt earnings. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  snapped 12 days of losses.  India ’s benchmark stock index rose to a one-week high on
bets the central bank will resume lowering borrowing costs after
holding  interest rates  today. Tractor maker  Mahindra & Mahindra
Ltd. (MM)  climbed the most in two weeks after agreeing to buy 13.5
percent of Cie Automotive SA, a Spanish auto-parts maker.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 315 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jessica Summers in New York at 
 jsummers17@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  