-- How Poor Students Subsidize Unworthy College Sports
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V e d d e r
-- 2013-06-17T22:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/how-poor-students-subsidize-unworthy-college-sports.html
As parents and students struggle to
keep up with rising college tuition and take on greater burdens
of debt, universities are being challenged to justify the
ballooning athletic fees they tack on to the bill.  In the 2010-11 academic year, the 227 public institutions
in Division 1 of the  National Collegiate Athletic Association 
collected more than $2 billion in athletic fees from their
students -- or an average of more than $500 per enrollee --
according to research by  Jeff Smith  at the University of South
Carolina Upstate.  These fees, which can exceed $1,000 a year, are often
itemized as a “student activity” or “general” expense. That may
explain why separate research, by  David Ridpath  of Ohio
University, found that students were only  dimly aware  of the
extent of the fees, and weren’t pleased once they found out how
much they were paying.  Worse yet, institutions with high proportions of poorer
students carrying substantial education debt appeared to be
charging the highest fees. While all students must pay the  costs 
of maintaining athletic programs, few actually benefit from the
services they subsidize. In this sense, the fees are comparable
to a regressive tax -- and one that is more onerous for lower-income students than for the more affluent, who are able to
attend schools where athletic fees are lower.  Big South  For the six public schools in the Big South conference,
Smith shows that the average athletic fee was $1,512, about 25
times more than the average $61 paid by students at the Big Ten
conference schools. Dan Garrett, my assistant, showed that at
schools belonging to the five conferences with the highest
athletic fees, more than 60 percent of the students received
federal loans, and more than 36 percent received  Pell grants . At
schools belonging to the five conferences with the lowest fees,
41 percent of students received loans, and 23 percent had Pell
grants.  Moreover, the schools in low-athletic-fee conferences
typically had better academic reputations, mostly in the top
one-third in  Forbes magazine ’s ranking of 650 colleges and
universities; the high-fee conferences schools were typically
below average in those rankings. The low-fee conference schools
included Stanford, Duke, Northwestern, the  University of
California  at Berkeley, the University of California Los
Angeles, as well as the highly ranked state universities of
 Michigan , North Carolina and  Virginia . By contrast, the very
high-fee Big South conference schools included small to midsized
state institutions, such as the University of  North Carolina  at
Asheville or Radford University and private, religious-affiliated ones such as Liberty University and Presbyterian
College.  The low-fee conferences feature powerhouse football and
basketball teams -- at schools with athletic budgets often
exceeding $100 million -- that generate huge ticket and
television revenue to defray costs. By contrast, at the Mid-American conference schools (where the average student athletic-fee subsidy was $831), sports  budgets  were typically about $20
million to $25 million, and were funded through subsidies that
often exceeded $15 million per school.  None of this would matter as much if students were
affluent, enthusiastic about collegiate athletics and willing to
pay for high-quality sporting entertainment. Yet Ridpath’s study
shows that this may not be the case for the 275,000 students of
the Mid-American conference schools.  Questionable Value  For starters, about 41 percent of respondents either didn’t
know, or were highly uncertain about, whether they paid the
fees. The students said they might be willing to pay more for
services such as student centers and health care, though, on
average, they favored sharp reductions in the  cost  of
intercollegiate athletics. The vast majority of students, 72
percent, said athletics had an “extremely unimportant” or
“unimportant” part in their school choice or as a priority for
their student fees; less than 10 percent ranked the athletic
programs as “important” or “extremely important.”  At Mid-South conference schools, most students don’t
graduate in four years. Let’s assume that student athletic fees
average $1,500 and are paid for five years: They would amount to
$7,500 over the college career, compared with zero for non-intercollegiate athletic schools or perhaps $300 in the Big Ten.  Such fees could increase the level of student debt in the
Mid-South schools upon graduation to $32,500 from $25,000, or
about 30 percent. More typically, the incremental debt burden
associated with intercollegiate athletics is probably closer to
10 percent, still a consequential amount.  University trustees, who are often alumni themselves, seem
to view intercollegiate athletics as a way to generate school
pride. Funding these programs with fees may please influential
sports fans, but it often ignores the wishes of the students
themselves. And more spending on sports doesn’t necessarily
confer greater prestige. The  University of Chicago ,  Harvard
University , the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology ,  Emory
University  and  Washington University  in  St. Louis  are doing just
fine.  (Richard Vedder, a contributor to Bloomberg View, directs
the Center for College Affordability and Productivity, teaches
economics at Ohio University and is an adjunct scholar at the
 American Enterprise Institute .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Richard Vedder at  vedder@ohio.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberleykroberts29@bloomberg.net  