-- Palladium Only Precious Metal That Hasn’t Surprised in LBMA Poll
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-06-17T05:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/palladium-only-precious-metal-that-hasn-t-surprised-in-lbma-poll.html
Best-performing precious metal
palladium is holding up better than most analysts anticipated in
the annual  London  Bullion Market Association survey while gold,
silver and platinum have surprised every forecaster.  Palladium’s low of $646.95 an ounce so far this year is
still higher than 17 of 20 forecasts made in the survey
published by the LBMA in January. Prices are up 3.8 percent this
year at $730.67 in London, reaching a nine-week high of $771.30
on June 10. The three other metals have already fallen below
every participant’s low estimate in this year’s survey.  Gold and silver slid this year as some investors lost faith
in a store of value on speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will
taper bond buying because of an improving U.S. economy.
Platinum, mostly used in autocatalysts, fell because of
recession in  Europe , the biggest user of the metal in vehicles.
Palladium, also found in the pollution-control devices, fared
better because of its higher usage in cars in  China  and the U.S.  “It just has stronger fundamentals than most of the other
metals,” said Rohit Savant, an analyst at CPM Group Inc. in  New
York . “You have a lot of usage in the auto market, much more
than platinum. The U.S. and China, which are among the larger
users, are both seeing healthy growth in demand for cars.”  The most bearish forecast in the LBMA survey was for
palladium to fall to $550 this year, with the average high
estimate at $851. Prices may reach $850 this year, Savant said.
The metal’s drop of as much as 8.1 percent compares with a slide
of as much as 11 percent for platinum. Gold slipped as much as
21 percent and silver’s plunge extended to 33 percent as both
metals entered bear markets in April.  Auto Demand  Autocatalysts are canisters with honeycomb-like surfaces
that convert car emissions into less harmful substances.  North
America  and China together account for about 46 percent of all
palladium used in autocatalysts, compared with about 16 percent
for platinum, according to Johnson Matthey Plc, which has made
one in three of the devices. Europe accounts for 41 percent of
platinum auto demand, compared with 22 percent for palladium.  U.S. automobile and light-duty truck sales rose to a
seasonally adjusted annual rate of 15.3 million in May, up from
14 million a year earlier,  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based
Autodata Corp data show. China’s wholesale deliveries of cars,
multipurpose and sport utility vehicles rose 9 percent to 1.4
million units in May from a year earlier, China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers data show. While the pace slowed since
March, it’s up from less than 1 million units in February 2011.  ETP Holdings  Still, palladium’s peak so far this year of $786.50
exceeded only one participant’s high forecast in the LBMA poll.
While investors boosted exchange-traded product holdings 18
percent this year to 69 metric tons, that’s still 5.6 percent
below the February 2011 all-time high. Platinum assets jumped 36
percent this year to a near-record 61.9 tons. Silver holdings
are little changed and metal held in gold products slid 20
percent.  The  World Bank  cut its global growth forecast to 2.2
percent on June 12, from January’s 2.4 percent estimate, after
 emerging markets  slowed more than projected, while budget cuts
and slumping investor confidence deepened Europe’s contraction.
Palladium dropped as much as 6 percent since June 10.  Diminishing sales from Russian state stockpiles and mining
disruptions in  South Africa , the second-biggest producer, after
 Russia , will keep the metal in a shortage for the “foreseeable
future,”  Robin Bhar , an analyst at Societe Generale SA in
London, wrote in a June 12 report. Prices may reach $875 by
year-end, he predicts.  Russian Inventories  Russian government stockpile sales will be about 100,000
ounces in 2013, the last year of “substantial shipments,”
according to London-based Johnson Matthey. Sales from the
reserves, a state secret, were an estimated 1 million ounces as
recently as 2010. Palladium’s 2012 shortage of 1.07 million
ounces was the most since 2000, it says. Demand will exceed
supply by 810,000 ounces this year, Barclays Plc estimates.  “The absence of heavy Russian stockpile sales, positive
demand from the  auto industry , generally steady industrial
demand and limited mine production growth sets the stage for
higher prices,”  James Steel , an analyst at HSBC Securities
(USA) Inc. in New York, wrote in a June 14 report. “Recognition
of tightening supply-demand balances will elicit a positive
response from investors.”  -- Editors: Claudia Carpenter, John Deane  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  