-- Pena Nieto Plans End to 75-Year Pemex Monopoly in Crude Oil
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n ,   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z   a n d   H e l d e r   M a r i n h o
-- 2013-06-17T20:44:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/pena-nieto-plans-end-to-75-year-pemex-monopoly-in-oil-production.html
Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto
said he’s negotiating support to break the state monopoly over
oil and gas exploration and production this year to accelerate
economic growth. The peso pared its loss.  In the model envisioned by Pena Nieto, state-owned
 Petroleos Mexicanos  would develop certain fields, with others
being tapped by foreign and private companies. He declined to
discuss details of the proposal, or whether it would require a
change in the constitution.  Seven decades after his party seized fields from the
predecessors to Exxon Mobil Corp. and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
Pena Nieto is preparing for the return of international  oil
companies  to arrest eight years of decline in crude output. An
opening would probably be broad, from offshore drilling to shale
fields similar to those that have revived the U.S. petroleum
industry, Pena Nieto said.  “It’s obvious that Pemex doesn’t have the financial
capacity to be in every single front of energy generation,” the
46-year-old president said in an interview in  London  today,
before traveling to  Northern Ireland  for meetings with Group of
Eight leaders. “Shale is one of the areas where there’s room
for private companies, but not the only one.”  Skeptical Investors  Pena Nieto said his administration will send the energy
bill to congress by September, when regular sessions resume,
along with a tax proposal. He said he’s confident the so-called
Pact for  Mexico  of the country’s top three political parties
will ensure the bill is approved by Congress before year end.  Mexico is seeking to attract capital for deep-water and
shale deposits found in the past decade as reserves dwindle in
Cantarell, the 1976 oil discovery that ranked among the world’s
largest.  Still, investors became more skeptical about the depth of
the energy reform after it wasn’t included in the schedule for
special congressional sessions in July and August, saving it for
the final four months of the year along with a crowded agenda
that includes the tax overhaul and next year’s budget.  Mexico’s peso fell 0.8 percent to 12.8196 per  U.S. dollar 
at 3:22 p.m. in Mexico City after dropping as much as 1.3
percent earlier today. Yields on peso-denominated  government
bonds  due in 2024 increased 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage
point, to 5.31 percent. Yields on $2 billion Pemex bonds due in
2022 were little changed at 3.98 percent.  ‘Good Path’  Pena Nieto’s comments boosted confidence he’ll make good on
his pledge to open the state-controlled  energy industry , said
 Ramon Cordova , a currency trader at Banco Base SA.  “What the market wants is the reforms to pass,” Cordova
said by phone from San Pedro Garza Garcia, Mexico. The comments
“discuss that the energy reform is on a good path and it gives
some more information, because up until now it’s been very
opaque as to what are the actual points that the reform will
encompass.”  Opening oil and gas exploration for private investment will
help Mexico revive oil production that is heading for its ninth
year of decline. Crude output averaged 2.52 million barrels a
day this month through June 9, compared with 3.38 million
barrels a day in 2004.  “We’re approaching key deadlines,” Pena Nieto said. “I’m
optimistic that this political climate of understanding and
agreement will be maintained.”  ‘Signature Issue’  Pena Nieto said there’s political momentum to pass more
reforms after the approval of sweeping education and
telecommunications laws and the creation of the Pact for Mexico.
His  Institutional Revolutionary Party  dropped opposition to an
oil-law overhaul in March.  Opening Pemex to more private investment would be the
“signature issue” for judging his presidency, Pena Nieto said
during the campaign.  Pemex bondholders are losing confidence in his ability to
achieve the needed changes after the Pact for Mexico alliance he
engineered between his own Institutional Revolutionary Party,
the  National Action Party  of predecessor  Felipe Calderon  and the
Democratic Revolution Party showed signs of fraying.  “If the Pacto por Mexico dies, then what’s the plan?”
Duncan Wood, director of the Mexico Institute at the Woodrow
Wilson International Center for Scholars in  Washington , said in
an interview on June 13. “We don’t know what the plan is after
that.”  Social Programs  Yields on $2 billion Pemex bonds due in 2022 jumped 72
basis points, or 0.72 percentage point, in the past month
through last week to 3.97 percent. Yields on Brazilian oil
producer Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s 2021 notes rose 63 basis
points over the same period.  There’s concern that delays in introducing an energy bill
could threaten its depth and support, said Jeremy Martin, an oil
specialist at the Institute of the Americas in  La Jolla ,
 California .  “The longer things go, people start taking different
directions, and then politicians, his team, start finding
reasons why they shouldn’t do something big,” Martin said in a
telephone interview on June 14.  Pena Nieto’s energy and tax pledges, and his early
legislative success, helped attract overseas asset managers
including Pacific Investment Management Co., the world’s biggest
bond fund, and lift foreign holdings of peso bonds to record
levels. Yields on government peso debt due in 2024 dropped to a
record low and the currency climbed to the strongest level in
almost two years against the dollar last month. Yields have
since climbed and the currency weakened on the prospect that the
 Federal Reserve  will scale back unprecedented stimulus.  “Overall he’s done an excellent job in his first six
months in office,” James R. Jones, the U.S. ambassador to
Mexico when the  North American Free Trade Agreement  took effect
in 1994, said in a telephone interview from Washington on June
14. “He has the best political sensitivity and touch I’ve seen
since President Salinas was able to marshal various factions of
Mexico to pass Nafta.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eric Martin  in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho in São Paulo at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 