-- Phil Mickelson Leaves Merion With ‘Heartbreaking’ U.S. Open Loss
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-06-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/phil-mickelson-leaves-merion-with-heartbreaking-u-s-open-loss.html
A few inches here, a few yards
there. That’s what  Phil Mickelson ’s latest failure to win the
 U.S. Open  came down to.  After entering the final round of golf’s second annual
major championship with a one-shot lead, Mickelson left Merion
Golf Club in Ardmore,  Pennsylvania , with a record-extending
sixth runner-up finish. Coming second to  England ’s  Justin Rose 
was not the birthday or Father’s Day present the 43-year-old
left-hander was looking for.  Rose became the first English player to take the title
since Tony Jacklin in 1970. Mickelson was left to wonder, yet
again, if he would ever win the tournament.  “Heartbreaking,” Mickelson said. “This is tough to
swallow. This was my best chance of all of them because I was
playing so well. At 43 and coming so close five times, it would
have changed the way I look at this tournament altogether and
the way I would have looked at my record. This was as good of an
opportunity as you could ask for. And to not do it, it hurts.”  Mickelson’s run of near misses this time started on the
first hole, where his 35-foot (10.5 meter) birdie putt caught
the lip of the cup and failed to fall in.  “I can’t believe that ball didn’t go in,” he said.  A 40-foot bunker shot on the second hole caught the edge of
the hole and stayed out, as did his four-foot par attempt that
followed.  Shaking Head  A three-putt bogey on the third hole left him shaking his
head. Still, Mickelson stood on the fifth tee with a share of
the lead with playing partner  Hunter Mahan . When his tee shot
trickled into the rough lining the edge of the creek on the left
side of the fairway, Mickelson turned to caddie Jim “Bones”
Mackay in disbelief.  “Again?” he asked. “Unbelievable.”  The words summed up Mickelson’s long quest for his first
U.S. Open title.  “All day it seemed like I would hit putt after putt that
wouldn’t go in,” he said. “They looked good at three feet or
four feet out and I couldn’t quite get it to go in.”  With 23 U.S. Open appearances, Mickelson entered the
tournament at Merion, a venue he praised and that lists  Bobby Jones  and Ben Hogan among its champions, with more experience
than any of the 156 players in the field. He has also
experienced more heartbreak than all players combined.  Testing Course  Many golf industry officials and followers questioned the
U.S. Golf Association’s decision to return to the course 32
years after it last hosted the Open. USGA President Glen Nager
defended the decision as he presented the winner’s trophy to
Rose.  “Some questioned if she was up for the test,” he said of
the 6,996-yard (6,400-meter) course, the shortest U.S. Open
course in nine years. “Well, she has clearly spoken. She did.”  When the final round began, only Mickelson was under par.
At the end, Rose won at 1 over.  “The course definitely held up,” said Ernie Els, a two-time U.S. Open winner. “It definitely shouldn’t be another 32
years.”  The loss for Mickelson, a week after a runner-up finish at
the U.S. PGA Tour event in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , wasn’t his most
dramatic.  Winged Foot  In 2006 at  New York ’s Winged Foot Golf Club, after winning
the previous year’s  PGA Championship  and that year’s  Masters
Tournament , Mickelson was in position to join Hogan and  Tiger Woods  as the only players to win three straight professional
majors. Mickelson shared the lead entering the final round and
needed a par on the last hole for the victory.  After hitting his tee shot off the roof of a hospitality
tent on the left side of the 18th hole, Mickelson recorded a
double bogey as  Geoff Ogilvy  won the tournament.  “I am such an idiot,” Mickelson said after that loss. “I
am still in shock that I did that.”  One thing was different this time. Unlike his previous five
runner-up finishes, he began the final round in the outright
lead. By the time he reached the ninth hole at Merion, Mickelson
was one shot off the lead. He then lipped out yet another birdie
attempt.  “I thought I made that,” he said in familiar refrain.  Eagle Boost  Good fortune seemed to finally turn his way on the 290-yard, par-4 10th. After his iron shot off the tee settled into
the rough, Mickelson holed out a 75-yard wedge shot for an
eagle. He leaped into the air and threw a flurry of first pumps.
When the roars subsided, Mickelson was back in the lead at even
par.  “It was a critical shot,” he said. “I would have been
happy to take birdie there. But to see that ball go in, I really
thought that I was in a good position. That shot vaulted me up
and allowed me to be more patient.”  His patience would quickly run out. After Rose regained the
lead with birdies on the 12th and 13th holes, Mickelson made
bogey at the 13th, 15th and 18th holes.  Among golf’s list of second-place finishers, Mickelson’s
futility has him ahead of an elite list. Jones,  Sam Snead ,
 Arnold Palmer  and  Jack Nicklaus  are second all-time with four
U.S. Open runner-up finishes. Nicklaus, the winner of 18 major
titles, is the only golfer to finish second more times in a
single major, as a seven-time runner-up at the British Open.  Mickelson has three wins at the Masters and one at the PGA
Championship. It’s the U.S. Open that he covets the most and
where, he said, a championship is most needed in his resume.  “If I never win, every time I think of the U.S. Open,” he
said. “I just think of heartbreak.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  