-- Philippines Plans Peso Linker Before Global Bond
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o ,   M a x   E s t a y o   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-06-18T04:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/philippines-plans-peso-linker-before-global-bond-southeast-asia.html
The  Philippines  plans to sell its
first inflation-linked bonds in the fourth quarter before
returning to the global debt market in 2014 after a year’s
absence, Treasurer Rosalia de Leon said.  The Treasury will meet investors including insurance
companies to gauge interest in peso-denominated linkers to be
offered by year-end, de Leon, 52, said in an interview at her
office in Manila yesterday. The government may meet 10 percent
of its funding needs overseas next year by selling $1 billion of
notes and borrowing another $1 billion from lenders such as the
World Bank and Asian Development Bank, she said.  “Inflation-linked bonds will allow us to lower our
borrowing costs as we assure investors that we will meet our
 inflation (PHC2II)  target,” said de Leon. “We are looking to offer
modest-sized global bonds as many investors seek them.”  The Philippines will join nations from  India  to  Thailand 
and South Korea in selling inflation-protected bonds as
President Benigno Aquino seeks more than $17 billion of
investment in roads and ports to sustain expansion in Asia’s
fastest-growing economy. The notes will serve as a benchmark for
local companies seeking to fund long-term infrastructure
ventures, said de Leon.  “The Philippines should see demand for its inflation-protected bonds as well as its dollar bonds,” Rees Kam, a
strategist at SJS Markets Ltd., a Hong Kong-based financial
services company that specializes in fixed income, said by
telephone yesterday. “The Philippines has an investment-grade
rating and it has one of the region’s highest growth rates.”  Manage Inflows  The nation shunned the global bond market for the first
time in a decade this year to help the central bank manage
capital inflows that made the peso Asia’s second-best performer
last year.  “We continue to hold a positive view on the Philippines,”
Desmond Soon, a Singapore-based fund manager at Western Asset
Management Co., which managed $459.5 billion as of March 31.
“Unless there’s a significantly risk-averse environment,
Philippine debt should see demand. The Philippines has not been
in the market for quite some time.”  The nation’s dollar bonds returned 4.9 percent in the past
year, the third-best performance in Southeast Asia, according to
indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc. The 5 percent dollar note
due January 2037 has gained 17 percent since it was issued in
January 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sovereign Upgrades  The  economy  expanded 7.8 percent last quarter, the fastest
pace in almost three years, helped by record-low interest rates
and inflation near the lower end of the central bank’s 3 percent
to 5 percent target.  Consumer prices  rose 2.6 percent from a
year earlier in April and May, near the slowest pace in 13
months, and Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas expects inflation to
remain within its goal until 2015.  Fitch Ratings and Standard & Poor’s rewarded the Southeast
Asian nation with investment-grade sovereign rankings this year
after the government narrowed its  budget deficit  and spent $3.2
billion in 2011 and 2012 to buy back foreign-currency debt.
Central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said this month the
Philippines may be closer to getting a favorable assessment from
Moody’s Investors Service, which has kept the nation at the
highest junk rating with a stable outlook.  Moody’s said in a June 3 report the country’s economic
growth last quarter and its fiscal surplus in April are “credit
positive.”  ‘Another Upgrade’  “If we get another upgrade, it might be timely for us to
go out again and price ourselves,” Treasurer de Leon said. The
government estimates overseas borrowing, including concessional
loans, will help meet 6 percent of its funding needs this year,
compared with 14 percent in 2012, she said.  The funding plan is preliminary and the final numbers will
be submitted to Congress along with the 2014 budget proposal in
late July, she said. The Treasury will probably buy about $2
billion from Bangko Sentral to pay offshore debt this year,
according to de Leon.  The Treasury is in talks with banks for the sale of peso-denominated bonds targeting individuals and is also considering
offering dollar notes onshore this year, de Leon said.
Regulatory approvals are being sought for the proposed retail
and inflation-linked debt, she said.  Five-year credit-default swaps on Philippine securities
have risen four basis points this year to 110 basis points,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated markets.  ‘Under Control’  The peso fell to a one-year low last week and was the
region’s worst performer after the Indian rupee in the past
three months. Overseas investors pulled a  net  $641 million from
local stocks and bonds in May, compared with net inflows of
$1.13 billion in April, central bank data show.  “Inflation is under control, our fundamentals are there,
growth is probably sustained in the second quarter,” de Leon
said in the interview. “There’s continued source of stability
in the domestic market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Regan at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  