-- Police Line Belfast Streets as Obama Talks Golf Before Summit
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2013-06-17T11:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/police-line-belfast-streets-as-obama-talks-golf-before-summit.html
In scenes reminiscent of Northern
Ireland’s three-decade-long conflict, police sealed off streets
across Belfast, as global leaders arrived in the region for the
Group of Eight summit.  Dozens of police Land Rovers stretched across the main
routes into downtown Belfast as the city prepared for President
 Barack Obama  speech in its Waterfront Hall today. Armed police
dressed in riot gear patrolled the area as helicopters circled.  Streets in the city were largely deserted, as Obama and his
family traveled from Aldergrove airport on the edge of the city
to the docklands. In all, about 7,000 police officers are on
duty for the summit, with unmanned drones patrolling the
airspace across the region. Unlike previous meetings of world
leaders in Scotland and  Italy , protest so far has been scant.  “We have a different mindset about protesting,” said Ann
McCaul, as she waited outside the venue to catch a glimpse of
Obama. “We don’t want the bad publicity because we get enough
of it already. We want to use the G8 to bring something positive
to this place.”  In Enniskillen, where the two-day summit will take place,
fewer than 10 demonstrators turned up a camp site, Irish state
broadcaster  RTE  reported. About 1,000 people attended a protest
organized by labor unions in  Belfast  yesterday.  By contrast, about 200,000 people attended G-8 protest in
Edinburgh in 2005. In Italy, in 2001, more than 300 people were
injured in riots, and a 23-year-old protester died in Genoa,
after being shot by police.  Security Hassle  For Belfast’s 280,000 citizens, the concerns so far have
been more mundane, as they sought to navigate closed roads
around the city.  “I’m not sure it will be good for Belfast, it’s very quiet
today,” said Darrach Teague, 36, a recruitment consultant. “I
had to leave at 7:30 this morning to get into work because of
all the security. It’s been a hassle.”  With Obama’s Belfast speech finished, the focus will now
turn to Enniskillen, 70 miles away, a town of about 14,000 that
was ripped apart by a bomb in 1987, in an attack that came to be
known as the Poppy Day Massacre. About 3,500 people died in
 Northern Ireland  since the violence, known locally as the
 “Troubles,”  began in the late 1960s.  Peace Slow  Bombings, kneecappings and shootings largely ended
in 1998 with the Good Friday Agreement. Still, dissident
republican terrorists are still targeting police officers and,
around Christmas, the region was paralysed by a wave of loyalist
demonstrations, protesting against restrictions on the flying of
the British flag.  “There’s still much work to do,” Obama said today.
“Peace comes dropping slowly.”  A G-8 protest is due to take place in Enniskillen at 6:30
p.m. this evening. Demonstrators will be kept far from the
meeting venue, the Lough Erne Golf Resort, fenced off for the
occasion. Opened in 2007, a five-star hotel set in 345 acres of
land, is now controlled by Lloyds Banking Group Plc after the
lender called in the developer’s loans.  In his speech in Belfast today, Obama recalled meeting
Northern Irish golfer Rory McIlroy, the resort’s former touring
professional.  “Rory offered to get my swing sorted,” he said. “Which
was a polite way of saying, President, you need help.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  