-- PPR Investors May Sell Fnac Shares After Voting for Spinoff
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-06-18T16:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/ppr-shareholders-may-sell-fnac-shares-after-voting-for-spinoff.html
Fnac, the French DVD, books and
video-games chain, is seen falling after being spun off this
week from  PPR SA (KER)  as investors who hold PPR for luxury brands
such as Gucci sell stock in the retailer.  “It is often the case that the immediate reaction of
shareholders receiving shares, after a spinoff of this kind, is
to sell the shares,” said  Luca Solca , an analyst at Exane BNP
Paribas. “Hence shares tend to decline, as a first step. It is
only later that the new entity finds its new natural holders.”  Fnac faces a “difficult” economic climate, particularly
in  France  and southern Europe, Matthieu Malige, the retailer’s
finance director, said in an interview yesterday. Competition
from online retailers such as Amazon.com Inc. is also hurting
sales. Fnac’s revenue has declined every year since 2008.  “The prospects for physical media and electronics
retailers are tough,” said Solca, who  rates PPR  market perform.  PPR investors approved the spinoff, which sees them receive
one Fnac share for every eight PPR shares they hold, at today’s
annual meeting of the Paris-based company. Trading is due to
start June 20.  Turnaround Plan  In addition to spinning off Fnac, PPR plans to sell online
and mail-order fashion retailer La Redoute this year to focus on
luxury and sporting goods, which are more profitable and have
better growth prospects. Talks have started with suitors, which
include industrial companies and private-equity funds, PPR Chief
Executive Officer Francois-Henri Pinault said today.  Shareholders also approved changing PPR’s name to Kering at
today’s meeting to signal its transformation.  PPR, which trades at a discount to luxury peers because of
its retail units, is seeking a valuation of about 400 million
euros ($530 million) for Fnac, people with knowledge of the
process have said. The price will be set after today’s meeting.
Artemis Group, through which billionaire Pinault controls PPR,
will retain a 38.9 percent stake and hold Fnac shares for three
years, the CEO said at the meeting.  Fnac is midway through a turnaround plan to “stabilize”
sales and profitability by 2016 as Europe’s debt crisis weighs
on demand in the region and shopping for books, music, film,
video-games and computer hardware shifts online, Malige said.  The pressure on Fnac would have been greater had PPR sold
the retailer to a private-equity fund, Pinault said today,
adding he is “confident” in the company’s turnaround plan.
Fnac is “resisting quite well” in a difficult market, he said.  Increased Visibility  According to a prospectus for the distributor of Johnny
Hallyday CDs and Samsung Galaxy S4 mobile phones, the spinoff
will increase Fnac’s “visibility, build on its strengths and
reinforce its competitive position.”  Still, while more aggressive pricing, new products such as
children’s toys and smaller franchised stores in medium-sized
cities are helping boost Fnac’s market share, the business is
fighting an uphill battle, particularly against online
competitors such as  Amazon.com, (AMZN)  according to Solca.  “Whether a national or multi-local player can win online
against global players like Amazon is a big question mark,”
said Solca.  Music chain Virgin France, owned by Butler Capital Partners
and  Lagardere SCA (MMB) , has already become a casualty of online
competition, digital downloading and a worsening economic
climate. It filed for bankruptcy in January.  No Debt  Fnac  sales  fell 2.4 percent to 4.1 billion euros in 2012.
The retailer, founded in 1954, gets about 70 percent of revenue
from France, which is mired in recession, and more than half
from electronics. It had 170 stores as of Dec. 31, including in
Spain,  Portugal ,  Brazil ,  Belgium , Switzerland and  Morocco .  The business, which had a net loss of 141.7 million euros
last year, agreed to sell its Italian operations in November.  With no debt, 420 million euros of cash as of Dec. 31 and a
revolving credit facility in place since last month, Fnac has
the means to pursue its transformation, Malige said.  “We will continue to implement cost saving actions with
the same magnitude as we have done in the past,” he said,
ruling out job cuts at Paris stores in the immediate future.  After 2016, “we have the objective that Fnac realize an
above 3 percent Ebit margin,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  