-- Prudential Financial Joins Abu Dhabi in Luxury-Home Wager
-- B y   M e g a n   H i c k e y
-- 2013-06-17T14:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/prudential-financial-joins-abu-dhabi-in-luxury-home-wager.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
second-largest U.S. life insurer, is joining with a government-controlled company in  Abu Dhabi  to bet on luxury residences on
the emirate’s Saadiyat Island.  Mubadala Development Co. and the insurer’s real estate arm
are 50-50 partners in a venture to buy the first phase of the
Saadiyat Beach Residences, the companies said today in a
statement distributed by  Business Wire .  U.S. life insurers are seeking to expand abroad and bet on
real estate as they cope with near record-low  interest rates  for
bonds issued in their home country. The Newark, New Jersey-based
insurer’s real estate arm this month named Michael Gallagher to
help manage European property-related securities and has made
additional hires this year in  Asia  and Brazil.  “Saadiyat is becoming a true destination for the region,
and one which holds the prospect of strong financial returns for
our business,” Joe Bonner, chief investment officer of the
Mubadala Pramerica Real Estate Investors venture, said in the
statement, which didn’t disclose terms of the deal.  The development’s first phase includes 285 units in three
buildings. Phase two, scheduled for completion this year,
consists of 210 apartments, the companies said in the statement.  The island, with golf courses and luxury hotels, is the
future home of the Louvre Abu Dhabi and Guggenheim Abu Dhabi
museums, according to the statement. It was developed by the
state-owned Tourism Development & Investment Co.  TDIC is building local branches of the Paris and  New York 
museums on Saadiyat Island, which is being developed as part of
the United Arab Emirates’ push to diversify its economy away
from oil revenue. The $27 billion worth of projects on the
island include the Zayed National Museum and a New York
University campus. TDIC is also building homes and offices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Megan Hickey in New York at 
 mhickey18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  