-- PSG Offers to Buy Bale to Help Lure Villas-Boas: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-17T09:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/psg-offers-to-buy-bale-to-help-lure-villas-boas-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Bale, Villas-Boas  Paris Saint-Germain has offered to buy Gareth Bale to try
to lure Tottenham Hotspur manager Andre Villas-Boas to the
French club, the  Daily Mirror reported .  PSG, whose first approach for Villa-Boas was rejected, has
discussed a world-record bid of 85 million pounds ($133 million)
for Wales winger Bale as part of a new attempt to hire the
Portuguese coach, who has two years left on a contract which
includes a 10 million-pound buyout clause, the newspaper said.  PSG also wants to sign Chelsea defender  David Luiz , the
Mirror added.  Bid Rejected  Tottenham had a 17 million-pound bid for Inter Milan
midfielder Fredy Guarin rejected, the  Daily Express reported ,
citing Inter President Massimo Moratti.  Spurs are also interested in Roma’s Erik Lamela and Radja
Nainggolan of Cagliari, the Express added.  Liverpool Deals  Liverpool may complete deals to sign Sunderland goalkeeper
Simon Mignolet and Shakhtar Donetsk midfielder Henrikh
Mkhitaryan this week, the  Guardian reported .  While there’s no agreement on a fee as yet for Mignolet,
there is optimism at Anfield that a compromise can be reached,
the Guardian said. Liverpool is said to have made an official
approach for Mkhitaryan, who would cost about 22 million pounds,
the paper added.  Morata Makeweight  Liverpool may sell Luis Suarez to Real Madrid if it gets
Spain under-21 striker Alvaro Morata as a makeweight in a deal,
the  Daily Mirror reported .  The 20-year-old Morata, whose four goals have helped Spain
reach tomorrow’s European Under-21 Championship final against
 Italy , has made 18 appearances for Real and has said he would
leave if the Spanish club signed any more forwards to block his
path to the first team, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  