-- Racial Bias in Lending, Housing Gets Supreme Court Review
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-06-17T13:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/racial-bias-in-lending-housing-gets-supreme-court-review.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  will decide
whether people who file housing discrimination suits must show
they were victims of intentional bias, accepting a case that may
undercut the Obama administration’s crackdown on the lending
industry.  The justices today agreed to consider an appeal by Mount
Holly,  New Jersey , which is fighting a U.S. Fair Housing Act
lawsuit filed by residents over the demolition of a
predominantly minority neighborhood. The town says the residents
must prove an intent to discriminate, not just that the project
has a disproportionate effect on racial minorities.  The case will test a legal theory, known as “disparate
impact,” that the Obama administration has repeatedly invoked
in lawsuits against banks over housing and auto loans.  Bank of
America Corp. ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  have
agreed to pay at least $480 million to settle claims since
December 2011.  “Defending allegations of disparate impact -- even if
proven to be meritless -- is typically very expensive,” five
lender trade groups, led by the American Financial Services
Association, argued in papers urging the justices to intervene.  A decision favoring the banking industry would mark a major
change in the enforcement of the 1968 fair-housing law. Eleven
courts of appeals have ruled on the issue, and all have said the
statute allows disparate-impact claims.  Equal Credit  The high court’s ruling might also affect the Equal Credit
Opportunity Act, which bars discrimination in all types of
lending and contains similar language. The Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau has relied on the disparate-impact doctrine in
its enforcement of that law.  The Supreme Court under Chief Justice  John Roberts  already
is preparing to rule in two cases that may redefine longstanding
legal protections for racial minorities. The justices will rule
by the end of June on university affirmative action programs and
the 1965 Voting Rights Act.  The justices will hear the new case in the nine-month term
that starts in October.  The housing case stems from an effort by Mount Holly to
redevelop what it said was a blighted, high-crime area. Known as
the Gardens, the neighborhood was originally developed to
provide homes for returning World War II veterans and their
growing families. In more recent years, the Gardens was the only
predominantly black and Hispanic area in town, with 75 percent
minority residents in 329 residential units.  Stalled Redevelopment  The town began buying homes in the Gardens, in most cases
paying between $30,000 and $50,000, until only 70 remained in
private hands. The redevelopment effort has since stalled, even
as the town has destroyed scores of homes and accumulated $18
million in debt. No new houses have been built, and the
remaining structures now form a patchwork amid vacant lots.  A group of current and former residents sued, claiming the
effort had a disparate impact on minorities. A federal appeals
court said the case could go forward.  In its appeal, Mount Holly says the Fair Housing Act is
written differently than other discrimination laws, indicating
that Congress didn’t intend to allow disparate-impact claims.
The town says government agencies shouldn’t be left vulnerable
to suits over non-discriminatory policies.  “Allowing disparate-impact claims under the FHA would
render illegal many legitimate governmental and private
activities designed to promote the general welfare of the
community,” Mount Holly argued.  ‘Longstanding Agreement’  The suing residents and Obama administration urged the
court not to hear the appeal.  “Where the courts of appeals are in broad and longstanding
agreement on an issue of statutory interpretation and Congress
has acquiesced in this interpretation for nearly 38 years, there
is simply no need for this court to weigh in on the meaning of
the statutory text,” the residents said in court papers.  The administration pointed to a new Department of Housing
and Urban Development regulation that interprets the Fair
Housing Act as allowing disparate-impact claims. That
interpretation “should be dispositive,” U.S. Solicitor General
Donald Verrilli argued.  The Supreme Court had agreed to consider the disparate-impact issue in its 2011-12 term in a case involving  St. Paul ,
 Minnesota . The case was scuttled when the city dropped its
appeal at the Obama administration’s urging.  Thomas Perez  The Obama administration’s handling of the St. Paul case is
now at the center of the fight over  Thomas Perez ’s nomination to
be labor secretary. As head of the  Justice Department ’s Civil
Rights Division, Perez supported a deal under which St. Paul
withdrew its Supreme Court appeal and the department agreed not
to join a fraud suit against the city.  Republicans say the government might have recovered $200
million in the fraud case, a whistle-blower suit accusing the
city of improperly receiving federal housing grants. Perez says
the fraud case was weak and the accord was in the best interest
of the country.  The new case is Township of Mount Holly v. Mount Holly
Gardens Citizens in Action, 11-1507.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  