-- Ranieri’s Shellpoint Said to Plan First Mortgage-Bond Deal
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D e R e z a
-- 2013-06-17T14:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/ranieri-s-shellpoint-said-to-plan-251-million-of-mortgage-bonds.html
Shellpoint Partners LLC, the home
lender backed by mortgage-bond pioneer Lewis Ranieri, is
planning a $251 million transaction in its first deal in the
reviving market for securities without government backing.  The notes may be sold as soon as this week in a deal
underwritten by Credit Suisse Group AG, according to a person
with knowledge of the transaction who asked not to be named,
citing a lack of authorization to speak about the offering.  Sales of debt known as  non-agency mortgage securities  are
recovering after freezing five years ago amid tumbling home
values and soaring defaults, following issuance of $1.2 trillion
in each of 2005 and 2006. Deals tied to new loans have exceeded
$7 billion this year, up from $3.5 billion last year and less
than $700 million in 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  While the regulator overseeing government-supported  Fannie
Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac  has sought to reduce their role by almost
doubling their mortgage-bond guarantee fees, Ranieri said today
that the pace of change has been too slow.  It’s “completely unacceptable” that the federal
government backs about 90 percent of the mortgage market,
Ranieri said at the Bipartisan Policy Center in  Washington .
“The federal government should not own the mortgage market.”  Spreads Widen  Investors have been demanding higher yields to own non-agency debt relative to benchmarks amid the expanding supply,
widening spreads on government-backed bonds as the  Federal
Reserve  signals it may curb its bond buying and the threat that
rising interest rates will extend the lives of the securities as
refinancing slows.  Redwood Trust Inc. sold top-rated securities at a spread of
2.21 percentage points on June 11, compared with 1.75 percentage
points in April and as low as 0.97 percentage point in January.
The  Mill Valley , California-based company and other issuers have
been issuing bonds tied to jumbo mortgages.  Other sellers include  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) , EverBank
Financial Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co., with investment firms
Two Harbors Investment Corp. and Invesco Mortgage Capital Inc.
saying they’ve participated in the revival by purchasing junior-ranked portions of deals.  Ranieri, who helped expand the mortgage-bond market in the
1980s while at Salomon Brothers Inc., is chairman of Shellpoint
and his Ranieri Partners LLC is a part-owner of the firm. He
said today that new regulations shouldn’t prevent prudent
lending to borrowers with low down payments.  “I’m perfectly happy to do it right, and we have a history
of how to do it right, but this is like wearing a hair coat,”
he said.  Jumbo home loans are ones larger than allowed in
government-supported programs, currently as much as $729,750 for
single-family properties in some areas. For  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac loans with the lowest costs for borrowers using 20
percent down payments, limits range from $417,000 to $625,500.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher DeReza in New York at 
 cdereza1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  