-- Raymond Saxe, Former HSBC Risk Technology Executive, Dies at 50
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-06-17T19:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/raymond-saxe-former-hsbc-risk-technology-executive-dies-at-50.html
Raymond Saxe, a former senior vice
president of global risk technology at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  whose
23-year  Wall Street  career in project management included work
as a director at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , has died. He was 50.  He died on June 1 at Sound Shore Medical Center in New
Rochelle,  New York , following a brief illness, his sister, Emily
Saxe Nydam, said today in an interview. He lived in Rye Brook,
New York, about 25 miles (40 kilometers) northeast of midtown
 Manhattan .  Saxe worked in New York City and  London  for HSBC,  Europe ’s
biggest bank in terms of assets, for six years until December
2010, according to his profile on LinkedIn Corp.’s website. He
had been working independently since then, his sister said.  With degrees in engineering and finance, Saxe was at home
on the technological side of Wall Street.  “I do the heavy lifting,” he wrote on his LinkedIn
 profile . “I excel at bridging the gap between the business-focused senior managers and the technology specialists.”  “Projects rarely fail for technical reasons, they fail
because the right governance and communication are not in place
and not consistently followed,” he wrote. “I firmly believe
this and adhere to this principle rigidly.”  Raymond Daniel Saxe III was born on Nov. 14, 1962, in  New
York City  and grew up in Scarsdale, New York. He was one of two
children of R. Daniel Saxe Jr. and the former JoAn Teetor.  Carnegie Connection  His father was senior vice president, secretary and general
counsel at Bessemer Securities Corp. in New York, the investment
firm started by Henry Phipps, a partner of  Andrew Carnegie , to
manage proceeds from the sale of Carnegie Steel Co.  Saxe received a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering
from the University of Bridgeport, in Connecticut, in 1985 and
an MBA in finance from New York University’s Stern School of
Business in 1990.  From NYU, he joined Bankers Trust Corp. after the New York-based company recruited him among a group of students who were
studying finance at top business schools and who also had
technical undergraduate degrees.  “The goal was to hire people who understood both the
technology and the business and could bridge the gap between the
two,” Saxe wrote. “The right candidate could talk to traders,
salespeople, risk managers and understand their requirements and
communicate those requirements to the technical staff.”  Managing Projects  At  Bankers Trust , he rose to vice president. In August
1998, Deutsche Bank hired Saxe, making him a director of
 information technology . Three months later, the Frankfurt-based
lender announced plans to buy Bankers Trust and completed the
purchase in 1999, creating what was then the world’s largest
financial services company. Saxe worked in systems engineering
and project management.  He moved to London-based HSBC in 2005. Robert Sherman, a
spokesman for the bank in New York, declined to comment.  “He loved skiing, tennis, a good mystery, and the Grateful
Dead,” according to a  death notice  written by his sister. “He
was an excellent drummer, and he was thrilled and proud when one
of his daughters decided to take up the drums, too.”  Saxe also looked forward to his family’s annual summer
vacation at Lake George, New York, in the Adirondacks. He
requested that his ashes be scattered there.  In addition to his sister and mother, he is survived by his
former wife, Naomi Reinitz Saxe, of  Rye Brook , and their three
daughters, Amanda, 21, Abigail, 18, and Rachel, 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  