-- Treasuries Fall First Time in Three Days Amid Speculation on Fed
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-06-17T21:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/treasuries-hold-2-day-gain-as-investors-weigh-fed-prospects.html
Treasuries declined for the first
time in three days as investors weighed whether the  U.S. economy 
was  strong  enough for the  Federal Reserve  to reduce bond
purchases designed to hold down borrowing costs.  U.S. bonds slipped after homebuilder confidence climbed and
a gauge of New York manufacturing rose before the Fed opens a
two-day meeting in  Washington  tomorrow. Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said in May the central bank could reduce its $85
billion in monthly bond purchases if there’s sustainable
improvement in employment.  “The market is on edge and will probably take any mention
about the possibility of reduced purchases pretty negatively,”
said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, which oversees $11 billion
in fixed income assets. “The Fed is not ready to execute
tapering yet. They may institute a strategy that allows them
more flexibility.”  The benchmark 10-year note  yield  increased five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.18 percent at 5 p.m. in
New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It climbed
to 2.29 percent on June 11, the highest since April 2012. The
price of the 1.75 percent security due in May 2023 declined
14/32, or $4.38 per $1,000 face amount, to 96 5/32.  Prices extended declines after the Financial Times reported
Bernanke will probably signal the central bank’s monthly
purchases will be reduced, while further cuts will depend on the
economy. The newspaper’s reporter later posted on Twitter that
he didn’t have confirmation from Fed officials and urged
investors to “chill out.”  Volatility Rise  Volatility in Treasuries as measured by the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch MOVE Index rose to 84.75 on June 6 and June 10,
the highest level since June 2012. It ended last week at 78.45.  Trading  volume  has been increasing, with the amount
changing hands through ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker
of  U.S. government debt , averaging $393 billion a day since the
start of May. That’s up from an average of $279 billion in the
first four months of the year. It was $359 billion on June 14.  The Fed will release a statement and economic forecasts
when its policy meeting ends on June 19, and Bernanke will hold
a news conference.  “They’ve got to try to nuance this thing to try to sound
like they will continue to be active in the market,” said  Brian Edmonds , head of  interest rates  at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New
York, one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “At
the same time, the economy is stronger and the idea of tapering
is not necessarily tightening. Expect some volatility this week
around that.”  Fed Purchases  The Fed is buying $45 billion of  government bonds  and $40
billion of mortgage securities each month to put downward
pressure on borrowing costs and has kept its  target  for
overnight lending between banks at almost zero since 2008. It
purchased $5.51 billion of Treasuries today due from March 2018
to February 2019, according to the New York Fed’s website.  “Everybody is waiting for what the Fed’s going to say,”
said Larry Milstein, managing director in  New York  of
government-debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co. “I don’t think
right now the data is clear enough that they are going to step
back at this point. It’s very data-dependent.”  The U.S. is scheduled to auction $7 billion in 30-year
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities June 20. It sold $66
billion in notes and bonds last week.  The difference between yields on 30-year notes and similar-maturity TIPS, a gauge of trader expectations for inflation over
the life of the debt, was 2.14 percentage points, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 2.11 percentage points on
June 13, the narrowest since May 2012.  Consumer Prices  A report tomorrow is forecast to show the U.S. consumer
price index increased 1.4 percent in May from a year earlier,
according to economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The central
bank’s target is 2 percent.  The yield gap between 10- and 30-year Treasuries was 1.18
percentage points today after touching 1.19 on June 14, the
widest on an intraday basis in three weeks. Its 2013 high was
1.3 percentage points on March 18, and the one-year average is
1.17. Historically, a so-called steeper yield curve reflects
diminishing demand from investors anticipating faster economic
growth and inflation.  The Fed Bank of New York’s general  economic index  climbed
to 7.8 this month, the highest reading since March, from minus
1.4 in May. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in New
York, northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut . The median
projection in a Bloomberg survey was for a reading of zero.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index
of  builder sentiment  rose to 52 this month, the highest since
March 2006, the Washington-based group reported today. Readings
above 50 mean more respondents said conditions were good.  Treasuries lost 1 percent this year through June 14,
according to the  Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index. (BUSY)  Japanese
government bonds  returned  0.4 percent and German bunds fell 0.7
percent, separate indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net 
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  