-- Red-Meat Eaters Increase Risk of Diabetes With More Portions
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-06-17T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/red-meat-eaters-increase-risk-of-diabetes-with-more-portions.html
Eating more red meat over time
raises the risk of getting Type 2 diabetes, while cutting back
reduces the danger, research showed.  Consuming an additional half-serving a day of red meat
during a four-year period increased a person’s chance of
developing diabetes by 48 percent in the subsequent four years,
according to a study today in  JAMA Internal Medicine . Reducing
red meat consumption lowered diabetes risk long term, said lead
study author An  Pan .  Today’s study is the first to look at changes in red meat
consumption over time and how that affects diabetes risk, Pan
said. The results confirm previous research that had linked red
meat intake to diabetes risk and suggests that limiting the
amount of beef, pork and lamb people eat is beneficial, he said.  “If possible, try to reduce red meat and replace with
other healthy choices like beans and legumes, nuts, fish,
poultry, whole grains, etc.,” said  Pan,  an assistant professor
at the National University of Singapore, in an e-mail today.  The meat contains high amounts of an iron that can cause
insulin resistance, which may raise the risk of diabetes, he
said. The food is also high in saturated fat and cholesterol and
processed forms have nitrates and high levels of sodium that may
also increase the danger of developing the disease, he said.  Researchers analyzed data and followed up with 26,357 men
in the  Health Professionals Follow-up Study , 48,709 women in the
 Nurses’ Health Study  and 74,077 women in the Nurses’ Health
Study 2. They assessed their diets through questionnaires every
four years.  There were 7,540 cases of  type 2 diabetes  over the study.  Research Findings  The research showed that reducing red meat consumption by
more than a half a serving per day from the start of the trial
through the first four years of follow up resulted in a 14
percent lower risk of diabetes over the entire time period.  In an accompanying editorial,  William Evans , vice president
and head of the Muscle Metabolism Discovery Performance Unit at
London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and an adjunct professor of
geriatrics at Duke University Medical Center in Durham, North
Carolina, wrote that it may not be the type of meat but the fat
that can raise diabetes risk.  “There’s no reason why the color of meat itself is the
thing that results in an increased risk in diabetes,” he said
in a telephone interview today. “The overwhelming data would
tell us it’s the amount of saturated fat. A chunk of cheddar
cheese has as much fat and saturated fat as a T-bone steak.”  He said another study looking to find similar links between
dairy, which can be high in saturated fats, and diabetes is
needed to determine if the fats are the culprits.  Saturated fats increase inflammation in the body, leading
to heart disease and insulin resistance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  