-- Remote Summit Venue Keeps Town Silent With Few Protesters
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-06-18T11:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/remote-summit-venue-keeps-town-silent-with-few-protesters.html
The streets of  Enniskillen , the
Northern Ireland town hosting the Group of Eight summit, were
quiet as Leo McGreal stood outside his barber shop, smoking a
pipe and laughing about the fuss caused by the preparations.  “It’s not at all what people were expecting,” the 65-year-old McGreal said. “We were expecting the streets to be
like city streets, full of people.”  The 12,000-person town is 70 miles (113 kilometers) west of
Belfast -- any further and it would be over the Irish border. It
lacks the infrastructure or facilities usually associated with
international conferences, to the horror of some reporters who
found themselves in hotels miles from the summit, served by
shuttle buses running at 90-minute intervals.  Two delegations ended up staying in a different country.
The Russian government, tired of waiting to hear from the U.K.
where it planned to put its members, booked a hotel in Sligo,
Ireland, 30 miles away. The American press is in the same town.  Summit organizers weren’t always speedy in getting people
to their hotels. It took them five hours in the middle of the
night to transport some journalists from Belfast to the summit
on the evening of June 16. Beda Romano was one of two Italian
reporters unable to get to their hotel who ended up sleeping in
a gym close to the media center along with a U.K. colleague.  Remote Resort  The remote location of the  Lough Erne golf resort , where
the two-day summit is being held, provides an intimate setting
for discussions. It also has the advantage, from the point of
view of organizers, of being hard to reach.  It’s a tough to come here, said Darren Carnegie, a 24-year-old protest veteran from Glasgow,  Scotland . “People have been
told as soon as they get here, they’ll be put into jail. They’re
scared to come.”  He was standing next to just eight tents on the sports
ground set aside for protesters. The police deployed 8,000
officers in the area, at a cost of 50 million pounds ($78
million). Later in the evening, some broke through a perimeter
fence protecting the summit. They were persuaded to go back
without any arrests or violence, according to witnesses and the
police.  John Kirton, the director of the  G-8 Research Group  at the
University of Toronto, said Cameron is missing opportunities by
restricting the access of journalists and campaigners.  “It’s really stupid to have the bulk of the media far
away, it stops the leaders getting their messages out,” he said
in a telephone interview from  Belfast , where he’s based having
been refused access to a summit for the first time. “And you
can use civil society to put pressure on the G-8 to agree your
agenda, as Tony Blair did in 2005.”  Blair’s Encouragement  That year, at the Gleneagles summit in Scotland, Blair
encouraged the Make Poverty History campaign to organize
demonstrations and a rock concert in support of his policies.
The clashes between protesters and police were on a grander
scale, too, with riot officers supported by military Chinook
helicopters charging people who tried to break through to the
summit.  This summit is being run on a tighter budget than
Gleneagles. Journalists were charged 150 pounds each to attend.
In 2005, each received a goody bag containing a 750ml (25 fluid
ounce) bottle of Scotch whisky. This time the bottle of whisky
is 50ml.  Cannes History  In  France , in 2010, G-20 banners proclaimed that “History
is being written in Cannes.” At this summit, the banners are
for a festival honoring the Irish writer Samuel Beckett in two
months. “Nothing to be done,” they read.  Protesters gathered yesterday close to Enniskillen’s main
street before setting off on a march toward the Lough Erne
resort. A jazz band played as they assembled. Among the groups
demonstrating were socialists, anti-fracking campaigners and
anti-austerity organizations. Police put the numbers at 700.  One area where money has been spent is covering up some of
the empty shops in Enniskillen, where the main street bears the
scars of recession. Photos of thriving fashion shops from
somewhere else have been printed on cardboard and screwed to the
window frames. It has caused amusement locally, according to
McGreal.  “Some American paper said it was a fake town,” he said,
stamping his foot on the pavement. “Quite solid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in Enniskillen, Northern Ireland
at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  