-- Republicans and Democrats Actually Agree on Facts
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-06-17T22:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/republicans-and-democrats-actually-agree-on-facts.html
“You are entitled to your own
opinion, but not to your own facts.” This quotation, often
attributed to Daniel Patrick Moynihan, rightly suggests that
while it is perfectly legitimate for people to have different
political views, they should not be making up the facts.  Yet a lot of survey evidence seems to suggest that
Democrats and Republicans sharply disagree about facts, not just
opinions.  Among other things, they appear to think that especially
bad things (bigger  budget deficits , greater unemployment)
happened under presidents of the political party they dislike.
Sometimes Democrats and Republicans seem to live in parallel
historical universes, in which the course of human events looks
radically different, depending on people’s political
affiliations.  While a lot of research seems to support this conclusion,
we now have good reason to believe that it is fundamentally
wrong. Recent  studies  by Yale University’s  John Bullock  and his
co-authors suggest that with respect to facts, Democrats and
Republicans disagree a lot less than we might think.  True, surveys reveal big differences. But if people are
given economic rewards for giving the right answer, the partisan
divisions start to become a lot smaller. Here’s the kicker: With
respect to facts, there is a real difference between what people
say they believe and what they actually believe.  Economic Rewards  In their first experiment, Bullock and his colleagues asked
Democrats and Republicans a series of questions and told them
that for each question that they answered correctly, their name
would be entered into a drawing for a $200 gift certificate from
Amazon.com. They were also told that the average chance of
winning was 100-1, but that if they answered many questions
correctly, their chances would be significantly higher.  The factual questions included the change in the
unemployment rate under President George W. Bush, the number of
U.S. soldiers killed in  Iraq  from 2003 to 2011, and the
percentage of the  federal budget  that went to the Medicaid
program. A control group was asked the same questions, but
without the potential economic reward.  In the control group, the difference between Democrats and
Republicans was quite large (as expected). But with the small
economic incentive, the difference was cut significantly -- by
55 percent. Democrats and Republicans didn’t exactly come into
accord, but they got a lot closer. When  real money  is on the
line, Democrats and Republicans are far less likely to answer in
a partisan fashion, and far more likely to agree with each
other.  This experiment didn’t allow people to answer, “I don’t
know.” We might hypothesize that the remaining partisan division
reflects a natural human reaction, which is to report a judgment
that reflects your political loyalties (at least if you aren’t
sure). If this hypothesis is right, much of the apparent
disagreement between Republicans and Democrats attests to
people’s tendency to give the benefit of the doubt to their
preferred political team. Is there a way to test this
hypothesis?  In their second  experiment , Bullock and his colleagues did
exactly that. As in the first experiment, they gave people an
economic reward for a correct answer, but they also gave people
a reward for a “don’t know” answer. (The reward was smaller,
amounting to about 25 percent of the reward for a correct
answer.) Stunningly, the result was to cut partisan differences
even further -- to merely 20 percent of what they were in the
control condition. The differences between Democrats and
Republicans weren’t exactly wiped out, but they became pretty
small, and hardly the stuff of real polarization across
political divides.  Insuring Accuracy  What’s going on here? Bullock and his colleagues think that
when people answer factual questions about politics, they engage
in a degree of cheerleading, even at the expense of the truth.
In a  survey  setting, there is no cost to doing that.  With economic incentives, of course, the calculus is
altered. If you stand to earn some money with an accurate
answer, cheerleading becomes much less attractive. And if you
will lose real money with an inaccurate answer, you will put a
higher premium on accuracy.  What is especially striking is that Bullock and his
colleagues were able to slash polarization with very modest
monetary rewards. If the incentives were greater (say, $100 for
a correct answer and $25 for “I don’t know”), there is every
reason to expect that partisan differences would diminish still
more.  It might seem disturbing to find such a divergence between
what people say and what they actually believe, but in a way,
these  findings  are immensely encouraging. They suggest that with
respect to facts, partisan differences are much less sharp than
they seem -- and that political polarization is often an
artifact of the survey setting.  When Democrats and Republicans claim to disagree, they
might be reporting which side they are on, not what they really
think. Whatever they say in response to survey questions, they
know, in their heart of hearts, that while they are entitled to
their own opinions, they are not entitled to their own facts.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University
professor at Harvard Law School, is a Bloomberg View  columnist .
He is the former administrator of the White House Office of
Information and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and
author of “Simpler: The Future of Government.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  