-- RetailMeNot Seeks $230 Million in Online-Coupon Initial Offering
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-06-17T22:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/retailmenot-seeks-230-million-in-online-coupon-initial-offering.html
RetailMeNot Inc., a provider of
online coupons from more than 60,000 retailers and brands, is
seeking as much as $230 million in a U.S. initial public
offering.  The Austin, Texas-based company didn’t say how many shares
it will offer or at what price in a regulatory filing. The
offering size is a placeholder amount used to calculate
registration fees and may change.  RetailMeNot announced its IPO plans after Internet and
technology companies this year have raised $1.5 billion in U.S.
IPOs and gained an average of 39 percent in trading, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The company, whose owners include
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Norwest Venture Partners ,
will use proceeds from the sale to fund unpaid dividends to
shareholders, according to the filing.  RetailMeNot reported net income of $26.7 million on revenue
of $155.6 million in the 12 months through March 31, according
to the company’s filing. The company generated 78 percent of its
revenue from the U.S. in the first three months of 2013.  In addition to its RetailMeNot.com site in the U.S., the
company also operates VoucherCodes.co.uk in the U.K. and similar
sites in  France , the Netherlands and  Germany .  Groupon Inc., the biggest daily-deal website, raised more
than $800 million in its November 2011 IPO, including an
overallotment. The Chicago-based company, which makes money by
offering consumers discounts from businesses such as restaurants
and nail salons, has seen its stock drop by nearly two-thirds
since it went public.  Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse
Group AG are leading the offering. RetailMeNot has applied to
list on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol SALE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  