-- Rhode Island’s Credit May Drop on Schilling Debt Coverage
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-06-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/rhode-island-s-credit-may-dip-on-schilling-debt-downgrade.html
Rhode Island may have its credit
grade cut by Moody’s Investors Service after lawmakers debated
defaulting on $75 million in debt that brought a company started
by former Boston Red Sox pitcher  Curt Schilling  to Providence.  Moody’s rates the state’s general-obligation debt Aa2, its
third highest score. A change would affect $2.1 billion in
securities, Moody’s said yesterday in a statement.  State debt tied to 38 Studios LLC, Schilling’s company, was
cut two steps to Baa1 from A2 by Moody’s, citing a potential for
default next year. The Rhode Island Economic Development Corp.
sold the bonds in 2010 to provide an incentive for Schilling to
move his video-game company from  Massachusetts . The bonds were
backed by a state “moral obligation pledge,” Moody’s has said.  “The potential for a decision by the legislature to
withhold funds to replenish the debt-service reserve signals
potential unwillingness to honor its obligations to
bondholders,” Moody’s said yesterday.  The New York-based rating company said a state reserve fund
won’t be able to cover interest payments due in May 2014 without
additional money provided under the forthcoming budget.  Moody’s said its analysts are focused on the results of
budget deliberations during the next few weeks. “Failure to
appropriate funds to pay debt service on 38 Studios or any other
appropriation-dependent debt which would likely have a multi-notch impact,” the company said.  Weighing Default  Governor Lincoln Chafee, 60, included a $2.5 million
payment on the debt in his spending plan for fiscal 2014, which
begins July 1, according to the Providence Journal. In debating
the plan, lawmakers considered whether to default on the 38
Studios obligations.  “I am confident that we will continue to honor our
obligations,” Chafee, who switched from independent to Democrat
in May, said in a statement. “We want to send a clear message
to the investment community that  Rhode Island  is a place that
will make the difficult but necessary decisions for the long-term health of our state. I believe that the General Assembly
will do the right thing to protect the reputation and borrowing
ability of Rhode Island.”  The state’s job-creation effort also backed three other
companies since December 2011 -- none for more than $4 million,
according to the development corporation’s website.  Schilling’s 38 Studios, which took its name from his Red
Sox uniform number, entered bankruptcy in May 2012, putting
about 400 people out of work and leaving taxpayers on the hook
to repay its debts. Schilling, a former All-Star who collected
three World Series championship rings during his 23-year career,
has said he lost more than $50 million on the venture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  