-- Rohani’s Victory, the World’s Opportunity
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-17T21:27:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/rohani-s-victory-the-world-s-oppurtunity.html
The election of Hassan Rohani as
 Iran ’s president has drawn stern warnings, including from the
Israeli prime minister, against the hope that his victory
signals meaningful change. It’s too soon to know exactly what it
signals -- but the result is a welcome surprise and an
opportunity that should be cautiously explored.  The June 14 vote replaces President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , a
cartoon extremist who would be funny if he weren’t so
frightening, with a more approachable interlocutor. Rohani isn’t
a reformist or a moderate in the ordinary meaning of the word --
but, so far as we know, he isn’t a habitual Holocaust denier or
demagogue either. When it comes to Iran’s leadership, that’s
progress.  The Scottish-educated cleric also seems to be something of
a pragmatist. As a nuclear negotiator in 2003, he agreed to
suspend Iran’s enrichment of uranium. It helps that he owes his
election to the support of two former moderate presidents -- Ali Akbar Rafsanjani and Mohammad Khatami -- plus voters from the
anti-regime Green Movement. They’ll remind him of his campaign
promises to improve the economy and relations with the rest of
the world. It’s true that Rohani was a regime-approved candidate
and that no reformists were allowed to run, but his election is
still a rebuff to conservatives. They lost, and they know it.  Front Man  The election certainly improves the public face of the
Iranian regime -- and that’s exactly the danger, according to
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu . With Rohani in
office, rallying international support for tighter sanctions or
future military action against Iran’s nuclear facilities will be
more difficult. And the military option needs to stay on the
table: Iran’s supreme leader and chief of foreign policy is
still  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , a man thought unlikely to budge
except under pressure.  Airstrikes are a deeply unappealing option, but the threat
needs to be retained as a last resort. The West’s response to
Rohani’s election shouldn’t send a contrary message. Moreover,
too exuberant a reaction would be counterproductive in another
way. Rohani was pilloried by conservatives for weakness over the
2003 suspension of  uranium enrichment , which didn’t yield a
settlement and was reversed once Ahmadinejad took power. Any
suggestion that the U.S. and its allies are delighted by the
return of a soft negotiating partner could force him to harden.  Circumspection should be the order of the day. Nonetheless,
Rohani’s election provides an opening, especially if it
indicates a movement in popular sentiment that the leadership
has decided to tolerate. In the end, how big or small the shift
will be is for Khamenei and Rohani to resolve, starting with
whether the supreme leader agrees to replace the defeated
conservative presidential candidate Saeed Jalili in his post as
nuclear negotiator.  The so-called P5+1 --  China ,  France ,  Russia , the U.K. and
the U.S. (the five permanent members of the  United Nations
Security Council ) plus  Germany  -- should make clear that they
are ready to reopen talks as soon as possible, and willing to
reward any real improvement in the Iranian negotiating position.
The store shouldn’t be given away, and nobody should pretend
that Rohani’s arrival has transformed the situation. A deal will
be hard to reach, and time for a negotiated settlement is
running out. The election provides a glimmer of optimism, no
more.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 