-- Rohani Pledges to Make Iran Nuclear Program More Transparent
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-06-18T07:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/rohani-pledges-to-make-iran-s-nuclear-program-more-transparent.html
Iranian President-elect Hassan Rohani said he will make the country’s nuclear program more
transparent as he seeks to ease tension with the U.S. and reduce
“brutal” sanctions that have crippled the economy.  Rohani, in the first news conference since his surprise
first-round win last weekend, said yesterday he will pursue a
policy of moderation to improve Iran’s relations with regional
countries and beyond. He takes office in August.  “We will try to win back trust,” Rohani said. “We can
make it clear to the whole world that the measures and
activities of the Islamic Republic Republic of Iran are totally
within international regulations and mechanisms.”  Rohani, 64, won more than 50 percent of the vote to succeed
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , whose anti- Israel  rhetoric and
questioning of the Holocaust made Iran a pariah and helped
prompt more sanctions. All six Iranian candidates for president
were approved by Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei, 73, who retains
the power over national security, especially the country’s
nuclear program.  Past presidents have been able to influence the tone of
Iran’s foreign policy.  The election of Rohani, a “more moderate Iranian president
is positive, particularly in relation to the incumbent,” said
Raza Agha, chief Middle East and Africa economist at VTB Capital
in  London .  “Whether actual change can emerge will depend on how Mr.
Rohani manages the powers that be,” Agha wrote in an e-mailed
analysis. His work “will be made easier if the international
community is more receptive.”  Obama, Putin  U.S. President  Barack Obama , after meeting yesterday with
Russian President  Vladimir Putin , said the two leaders share
“cautious optimism” that Iran’s election may open a new avenue
for ending the standoff over the Islamic republic’s nuclear
program.  While Iran was open to mend relations with the U.S., Rohani
said a condition for direct talks is a pledge not to “interfere
in Iran’s domestic affairs,” to scrap “bullying policies” and
to acknowledge the nation’s rights.  “It’s a very old wound so we need to think of somehow
healing it,” he said of Iran’s relations with the U.S.
government. “We don’t want to see further tension, so wisdom
tells us that both nations need to think more about the future
and try to find solutions to past issues.”  “If we see goodwill, we can also take some confidence-building measures,” he said.  Moving Forward  In  Washington , State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki told
reporters  Iran  needs to offer a substantive proposal, and not
campaign pledges, for nuclear talks to resume.  “There are a number of promises that were made during this
election,” Psaki said yesterday at a briefing. “The question
is, what happens moving forward? And we will see.”  Israel and the U.S. say they think Iran is trying to
develop nuclear weapons capability. Both have threatened to
attack Iran should other means fail to stop the Islamic republic
from trying to obtain nuclear weapons. Iranian officials say
Iran, a signatory to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, is
entitled to conduct nuclear work and maintains its program is
solely for energy generation and medical research.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  urged the world
to maintain its pressure on Iran, saying Khamenei, not Rohani,
holds the nuclear strings. “We do not delude ourselves” over
Rohani’s win, and  Iran’s nuclear program  must be stopped no
matter how, Netanyahu said June 16.  ‘Dynamic’ Talks  Rohani said talks were the only way to resolve the dispute
and that negotiations with six world powers, which have failed
to yield a concrete outcome, must become “more dynamic.”  “Sanctions and threats will not be solutions,” he said
yesterday. “The solution is only through talks and dialogue and
mutual confidence. This is possible.”  Today, Foreign Ministry spokesman Abbas Araghchi said
Rohani may adopt different “tactics, means and strategies,”
while seeking to safeguard Iran’s national interests and rights.  “The principles and values of the  Islamic Revolution  are
immutable,” Araghchi told reporters in Tehran today. “The
rights of the Iranian nation are the benchmark, and any
government will be duty-bound to safeguard those rights.”  The sanctions have fueled a  currency devaluation  and helped
to send the Iranian economy into recession. Gross domestic
product is  set to contract  for a second year in 2013, according
to the  International Monetary Fund .  Rohani said “salvaging” the economy by boosting local
production and “funneling investment in the right direction”
were at the top of his agenda. He is also seeking to curb
unemployment that left a quarter of Iranians age 15 to 29
without jobs in the Iranian year ended March 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  