-- Royal Nickel Seeks Funding for Quebec Project Ahead of Permits
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-06-17T11:39:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/royal-nickel-seeks-funding-for-quebec-project-ahead-of-permits.html
Royal Nickel Corp. (RNX) , the developer of
the Dumont nickel mine in  Quebec , aims to arrange funding for
the $1.2 billion project before it receives permits next year,
the company’s chief executive officer said.  The mine may produce 73 million pounds of nickel a year
once Dumont starts output in 2016, before expanding to an annual
average of 113 million pounds after five years, according to the
results of a feasibility study released today by the Toronto-based company. Cash costs over the life of the mine are forecast
at $4.31 a pound, Royal Nickel said.  CEO Tyler Mitchelson is betting that a shortage of new
nickel mines beyond 2016 will reverse a supply glut, resulting
in higher prices for the metal used to make stainless steel.  “We’re very bullish on the market at that point in time,”
Mitchelson said in an interview. “There just isn’t that supply
pipeline anymore.”  Nickel for delivery in three months fell to a four-year low
last week on the London Metal Exchange after stockpiles rose to
the highest since at least 1979.  The company, with a market value of C$42.4 million ($41.7
million), expects to get about $600 million through project debt
financing including from export-credit agencies, Mitchelson
said. Options for the balance of the project’s cost include
subordinated mezzanine financing, offtake loans and sales
agreements, as well as selling a minority stake in the project,
he said.  The company is working with Rothschild to advise it on
 project financing , Mitchelson said.  Royal Nickel said in March it signed a memorandum of
understanding with Tsingshan Holding Group Co., a Chinese
stainless-steel producer, that they would consider offtake and
partnership agreements once the Dumont feasibility study was
completed. Tsingshan also expected to build a plant that would
use nickel sulphide concentrate, which will be produced at
Dumont, to produce stainless steel, Royal Nickel said at the
time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  