-- Russia Nixes Central Bank Growth Mandate as Weaker Ruble
-- B y   E v g e n i a   P i s m e n n a y a ,   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-06-17T12:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/russia-nixes-central-bank-growth-mandate-as-weaker-ruble.html
Russia  rejected a proposal to pin
some of the responsibility for ensuring economic expansion on
the central bank and may use a weaker ruble to salvage growth
and replenish the budget, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said.  “The Finance Ministry didn’t support that proposal because
it’s without substance and it blurs the lines of responsibility
for economic growth between the government and the central
bank,” Siluanov said in an interview in Moscow last week,
referring to the possibility of a growth mandate.  President Vladimir Putin, who’s trying to halt the sharpest
slowdown in the economy since 2009, highlighted the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s dual mandate of price stability and full employment in
a  speech  last December, setting off discussions among lawmakers
over a wider Bank Rossii remit. Putin led a government meeting
this month that decided against changing the central bank law to
add a growth mandate, Siluanov said.  Russia is looking at other ways to boost growth, including
a plan for the Finance Ministry to buy foreign currency on the
market before sending oil and gas revenue to the Reserve Fund,
one of the country’s two sovereign wealth funds, Siluanov said.
Only “market mechanisms” should be used to devalue the
currency, he said.  “A small weakening in the ruble’s exchange rate can play a
positive role for  federal budget  revenue and the economy as a
whole,” Siluanov said. The Finance Ministry wants to make any
steps to weaken the ruble conditional on “having it done
through the market and not administratively,” he said.  ‘Huge Argument’  Government officials were in a “huge argument” with the
central bank earlier this year over whether it should start
cutting interest rates to stimulate growth, First Deputy Prime
Minister Igor Shuvalov said in an interview in January. Putin’s
chief economic aide, Elvira Nabiullina, takes over as chairman
in a week as Sergey Ignatiev exits in Bank Rossii’s first change
of leadership in more than a decade.  The current  law  governing Bank Rossii lists as the
regulator’s three “goals” the defense and stability of the
ruble, development of the banking system and the upkeep of
Russia’s payments system.  Yields on Russia’s bonds have spiked since May amid a
global selloff in bonds on concern that central banks will begin
to back away from stimulus measures that pushed interest rates
to historic lows. Russia’s ruble debt due in 2028 has tumbled,
sending the yield up 75 basis points, or 0.75 percentage point,
to 7.61 percent from a record low on May 6.  Ruble Slumps  The  ruble  weakened 0.4 percent to 31.6796 against the
dollar following Siluanov’s comments, reducing today’s advance
of as much as 0.7 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency has weakened 4 percent this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “During the past 10 years, the ruble’s nominal rate has
practically remained unchanged, while prices have grown
substantially,” Siluanov said. “That has led the ruble to
strengthen in real terms, which is negatively affecting Russian
exporters.”  Companies including VTB Group, Russia’s second-biggest
bank, and United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum
producer, have urged the central bank to lower rates and offer
longer-term financing to bolster growth. Those calls have been
echoed from within the government, including by Economy Minister
Andrei Belousov. Rusal’s billionaire Chief Executive Officer
Oleg Deripaska said in January that the central bank’s policies
“sucked all blood from the Russian economy.”  Ignatiev’s Stance  The central bank has rejected those arguments, with
Ignatiev saying the regulator will start lowering its main rates
once inflation has slowed. Consumer price growth surged to 7.4
percent in May from a year earlier.  Bank Rossii is targeting a range of 5 percent to 6 percent
for inflation this year after overshooting the same goal in
2012, when a drought damaged the harvest, driving up food
prices. Price growth may ease to within that range by September
or October, Ignatiev said this month.  “Right now there’s no need to conduct quantitative easing
as is being done in other countries, because that may spur
inflation,” Siluanov said. “You can’t have identical monetary
policy in Russia and western countries or  Japan .”  Unlike its counterparts around the world that have
unleashed unprecedented monetary stimulus to strengthen their
economies, Bank Rossii has held its main interest rates for nine
months after raising them in September, keeping the refinancing
rate at 8.25 percent at a June 10 meeting.  ‘Neutral Operation’  Conducting transactions for the Reserve Fund on the market
would be “a neutral operation in terms of buying and selling
currency, which, according to estimates, may weaken the ruble
exchange rate by 1 to 2 rubles,” Siluanov said.  A 1 ruble drop in the exchange rate may bring the budget an
additional 190 billion rubles ($6 billion) in revenue, according
to Siluanov. The mechanism may be used starting in August, he
said.  Russia’s two sovereign wealth funds are managed by the
central bank under guidelines set down by the Finance Ministry.
Under the current system, the ministry’s off-market conversion
of ruble revenue into foreign currency is usually made once at
the start of every year, with the central bank buying rubles
accumulated throughout the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Evgenia Pismennaya in Moscow at 
 epismennaya@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  