-- Saipem Tumbles After Cutting Profit Forecast Again: Milan Mover
-- B y   W i l l   K e n n e d y   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2013-06-17T17:07:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/saipem-plunges-after-cutting-outlook-on-rising-costs-in-algeria.html
Saipem SpA (SPM) ,  Italy ’s largest oil and
gas engineer, plunged to a four-year low in Milan trading after
saying rising costs in  Algeria  will cut earnings.  The  stock  closed down 29 percent at 14.24 euros, the lowest
since April 2009, reducing the company’s market value to 6.3
billion euros ($8.4 billion).  Saipem reduced a forecast for earnings before interest and
tax this year by as much as 750 million euros ($1 billion),
saying June 14 that it won’t be able to recover rising costs for
Algerian projects as talks with client Sonatrach have failed.  The cut in guidance, the company’s second this year, shows
Chief Executive Officer Umberto Vergine is still grappling with
Algerian contracts that caused his predecessor to resign in
December after magistrates opened a corruption probe. Saipem has
sunk more than 50 percent since lowering its outlook on Jan. 29.  The latest forecast “puts new uncertainty on the
investment case, but more importantly a hurdle in the recovery
of the operations,” UBS AG wrote in a note. “While issues
appear to relate to projects signed by the previous management,
the messages since the Jan. 29 warning gave the impression that
the entire portfolio had been thoroughly reviewed.”  The Milan-based company, 43 percent-owned by oil producer
 Eni SpA (ENI) , said “operating issues” at onshore contracts in
 Mexico  and  Canada  and “technical challenges” offshore would
also weigh on earnings. It forecast a net loss of as much as 350
million euros this year, and said profit will recover in 2014.  ‘Dramatic Escalation’  “Since my appointment as chief executive, I have been
focused on the cleanup of major legacy issues which have proved
to be of greater magnitude than we envisaged,” Vergine said in
a June 14 statement. “In Algeria, our business has been
impacted by a dramatic escalation of the investigation in the
country and the consequent commercial fallout.”  Saipem’s Algeria unit is contending with frozen accounts
amid the corruption probe into contract awards. Saipem said it’s
offered its full cooperation to the prosecutor’s office.  Parent company Eni SpA dropped as much as 4.9 percent in
Milan today and closed down 2.1 percent at 16.5 euros.  “The scale of the deterioration of Saipem’s performance
will start to impact Eni’s own performance and could constrain
its ability to grow cash returns to shareholders,” Exane BNP
Paribas wrote in a note today. While not expecting a dividend
cut, it estimates that Saipem could “suck in another 1 billion
euros from Eni’s funding in 2013.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Will Kennedy  in London at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome  at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  