-- Samsung Targets Health to Education Startups for Devices
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   D i a n e   B r a d y
-- 2013-06-17T20:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/samsung-targets-health-to-education-startups-for-devices.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  is looking
to acquire companies in communications, health and education to
bring unique features to handheld devices, said David Eun,
executive vice president.  The world’s biggest smartphone maker is looking at several
possible targets, Eun, who leads Samsung’s Open Innovation
Center in Palo Alto, California, said at the  Bloomberg Next Big
Thing Summit .  Samsung is investing in software and content to extend its
lead in the $294 billion global smartphone market and compete
with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to attract users, who are increasingly turning
to mobile devices to communicate and manage information. Eun
joined Samsung in 2011, following stints as an executive at
Internet companies including AOL Inc. and Google Inc.  “We’re having conversations with more than a handful of
companies that either we’ve approached or they’ve approached
us,” Eun said at the summit in Half Moon Bay,  California . “We
have an early investment group that invests in early stage
companies and we are doing acquisitions as well. In addition,
we’re setting up incubators in Silicon Valley and New York to
incubate our own startups.”  By investing in emerging technologies, Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung is seeking to offer more customized experiences
for users, Eun said.  “The idea here is, along with the S4 and all of our
devices, including our connected TVs, to connect these devices
in some way in the near future,” he said. “We think if we do
that we will have one of the world’s largest platforms for
distributing content and apps.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Diane Brady in New York at 
 dbrady11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  