-- Schaeuble to Visit Athens After Merkel Backs Samaras
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-06-18T06:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/schaeuble-to-visit-athens-after-merkel-offers-backing-to-samaras.html
(Corrects target year for reducing Greek government payroll
in sixth paragraph of story first published yesterday.)  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said he’ll pay his first official visit to Athens to
discuss ways to help Greek businesses, as the German government
rallied to the side of  Greece .  Schaeuble, in a statement released in Berlin one day after
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  spoke by phone with Greek Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras, said that he’d accepted an invitation
to the Greek capital from his “friend and colleague” Yannis Stournaras, Greece’s finance minister. His visit will come in
weeks rather than months, and will include talks on measures
such as the creation of a state-owned development bank that
would disburse German loans, the Finance Ministry said.  “Greece still has a steep and long path of reforms ahead
of it,” Schaeuble said in the statement e-mailed today. “The
troika and the countries of Europe will continue to closely
support and assist the Greek partners.”  Germany ’s coordinated show of support may bolster Samaras
after he overrode objections from his coalition partners and
shut public broadcaster ERT on June 11, eliminating 2,600 jobs
and prompting a public outcry. Merkel, who in October made her
first visit to  Athens  during the three-year sovereign debt
crisis, told Samaras of her “respect” and “support for the
clear reform orientation” of Greece’s government, her
spokesman, Steffen Seibert, said in a statement yesterday.  Samaras’s coalition of New Democracy, Pasok and Democratic
Left “has succeeded at steering the Greek ship safely through
most difficult waters and has already mastered a good part of
the reform path,” Schaeuble said. “For this, we pay our
respects to the Greek people and the Greek government.”  The Greek government’s commitment to reducing the state
payroll by 15,000 people by the end of next year has been a
sticking point in past reviews by its creditors of Greece’s
performance in meeting its bailout terms.  “Now it is crucial to implement all agreements with the
troika” of International Monetary Fund, European Commission and
European Central Bank, “including those referring to a reformed
civil service,” Seibert said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  