-- SEC, Mitchell Silberberg, Rimon, Seyfarth:Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-06-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/sec-mitchell-silberberg-rimon-seyfarth-business-of-law.html
Amelia Cottrell, a U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission investigator who helped build an
insider-trading case against a unit of billionaire Steven A. Cohen’s SAC Capital Advisors LP, was promoted to a top
enforcement position in the agency’s New York office.  Cottrell, 39, will help supervise a staff of about 180
attorneys, investigators, accountants and paralegals as
associate director of the office, the SEC said in a statement
June 14. She has been part of an enforcement unit specializing
in unearthing market abuse that was formed in 2010.  Since joining the SEC in 2005, Cottrell has worked on high-profile cases, including the investigation of SAC Capital unit
CR Intrinsic Investors LLC that resulted in a record
$616 million settlement in March, the SEC said. She also helped
reach a $25 million settlement with U.K.-based  ICAP Plc (IAP)  over
claims the brokerage displayed fake trades and misled customers.  Before joining the SEC, Cottrell worked for five years at
law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP and two
years at Jones Day, the SEC said.  Moves  Mitchell Silberberg Adds Entertainment Lawyer in New York  Carol M. Kaplan has joined Mitchell Silberberg & Knupp LLP
as a partner in the firm’s New York office.  Kaplan was formerly counsel in the entertainment department
of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP in New York.  “Carol’s experience, running the gamut from legitimate
theater, film and TV to new media and book publishing, adds
important depth in key New York media and fits well with our
already formidable entertainment and music industry practice
here,” said Jane Stevens, the managing partner of MS&K’s New
York office.  Kaplan’s roster of theater clients includes first-time and
established commercial producers developing and producing new
works including major and mini-major studios; content owners
licensing rights in proprietary materials including logos,
trademarks and franchise properties for exploitation in the
live-stage industry; and playwrights, performers, directors,
designers and established and first-time Broadway investors.  In the film and television field, Kaplan represents
independent film and documentary producers, directors,
screenwriters and financiers, and has handled talent deals for
news anchors, chefs and other personalities. In addition, she
has represented licensees of series broadcast rights in other
territories. In the print industry, she has represented
individual authors in book publishing deals with major as well
as independent presses.  As part of her entertainment practice, Kaplan also advises
not-for-profit theaters on general production, financing and
governance matters and has also counseled educational
institutions and foundations in connection with numerous
transactional and intellectual property matters.  At MTV Networks, Kaplan served as senior counsel,
Nickelodeon business and legal affairs, from 2004 to 2006. In
that capacity, she negotiated agreements and advised the
internal client group in connection with development and
production contracts for Nickelodeon branded content.  The firm, with offices in Los Angeles and  Washington ,
opened its New York office in 2008.  Seyfarth Expands Real Estate Team With San Francisco Partner  James O’Brien has joined Seyfarth Shaw LLP as a partner in
the firm’s San Francisco office. O’Brien, a real estate
attorney, joins Seyfarth from Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP.  O’Brien’s practice focuses on representing investment funds
and other institutional investors in connection with real estate
acquisitions and dispositions, real estate financing, leasing
transactions and joint venture formation. He has worked on
transactions involving commercial and residential real property,
including development property, office buildings, hotels,
resorts, multifamily projects and mixed-use projects. O’Brien
previously practiced in both New York and London and has been
living and working in the San Francisco Bay Area for the last
seven years.  “James has a reputation as a real estate attorney who
practices at the highest level,” said Nick Geannacopulos,
Seyfarth’s San Francisco office managing partner. “His presence
furthers diversifies our national real estate department’s on-the-ground skill set in the Bay Area and adds to our roster of
more than 70 attorneys across all practices in San Francisco.”  Rimon PC Adds Litigator in Its San Francisco Office  Litigator Richard Mooney, who works on complex domestic and
international business disputes, has joined the San Francisco
office of Rimon PC as a partner. Mooney joins Rimon from Bryan
Cave LLP, where he was also a partner.  Mooney’s practice includes an emphasis on antitrust and
competition matters and transnational disputes. He has
represented both domestic and foreign individuals and
corporations of all sizes in state, federal trial and appellate
courts and arbitration proceedings.  “We are excited to have Richard on our team. He bolsters
our strong team of litigators with his deep experience in
international dispute and antitrust work, as well as augmenting
our intellectual property litigation practice,” Rimon Chief
Executive Officer Michael Moradzadeh said in a statement.  Dechert Expands Its Corporate Practice in Paris  Matthieu Grollemund is joining Dechert LLP as a corporate
partner in the firm’s Paris office. Grollemund was most recently
a partner at Orrick Herrington & Suttcliffe LLP.  Helene Parent, an associate, is also joining along with
Grollemund from Orrick.  “We are thrilled to join Dechert, a firm whose corporate
and, more specifically, private equity capacities, are globally
recognized for their excellence, including their strong New York
and  London  platforms. We are also very excited about the cross-selling opportunities offered by Dechert’s leading fund
formation practice which is known to many of our clients,”
Grollemund said in a statement.  Grollemund advises private equity firms and hedge funds. He
has also worked on a range of special situations and domestic
and cross-border insolvency matters for French and international
debtors or creditors.  Litigation News  BofA Gave $500 Bonuses to Foreclose on Clients, Lawsuit Claims  Bank of America Corp. , the second-biggest U.S. lender,
rewarded staff with cash bonuses and gift cards for meeting
quotas tied to sending distressed homeowners into foreclosure,
former employees said in court documents.  Mortgage workers falsified records and were told to delay
U.S. loan-assistance applications by requesting paperwork that
the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank had already received,
according to statements from ex-employees filed last week in
federal court in Boston. The lender improperly disqualified
applicants to the Home Affordable Modification Program, or HAMP,
according to a May 23 statement from Simone Gordon, a loss-mitigation specialist who left the company in 2012.  “We were regularly drilled that it was our job to maximize
fees for the bank by fostering and extending delay of the HAMP
 modification  process by any means we could,” Gordon said.
Managers instructed staff to “delay modifications by telling
homeowners who called in that their documents were ‘under
review,’ when in fact, there had been no review,” she said. The
bank has denied the plaintiffs’ allegations.  Bank of America, which has spent more than $45 billion to
settle claims tied to its 2008  takeover  of Countrywide Financial
Corp., is being sued by homeowners who didn’t receive permanent
loan modifications after making payments under trial programs,
according to court papers. Statements from seven former loan
employees were included in a filing last week as part of
plaintiffs’ attempt to gain class-action status.  Bank of America has helped the most homeowners under HAMP
and is committed to assisting customers at risk of foreclosure,
Rick Simon, a company spokesman, said June 14 in an e-mail.  “At best, these attorneys are painting a false picture of
the bank’s practices and the dedication of our  employees ,”
Simon said. “While we will address the declarations in more
depth when we file our opposition to the plaintiffs’ motion next
month, suffice it to say that each of the declarations is rife
with factual inaccuracies.”  The lender unsuccessfully tried to dismiss the complaint in
2011. U.S. District Judge Rya Zobel ruled that the case could
proceed while dismissing some claims.  Loan collectors who put at least 10 customers into
foreclosure, including those who were in trial modifications,
were given a $500 bonus, said Gordon, who worked at Bank of
America for more than four years. Other rewards included gift
cards for retailers including Target and Bed, Bath and Beyond,
she said.  Bank of America was among five mortgage servicers that
reached a $25 billion settlement last year with the U.S. and
states to resolve claims of abusive foreclosure practices. The
deal provided monetary relief to homeowners and establishes
standards for servicing mortgages.  The case is In Re Bank of America Home Affordable
Modification Program (HAMP) Contract Litigation, 10-md-02193,
U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts  ( Boston ).  For more, click here.  Toyota Gets More Time to Win Approval of $1.1 Billion Pact  Toyota Motor Corp. and lawyers suing the company were given
more time to win final approval of a $1.1 billion settlement of
claims that recalls related to unintended acceleration hurt the
value of U.S. customers’ vehicles.  U.S. District Judge James V. Selna, after a hearing June 14
in Santa Ana,  California , granted requests from attorneys for
both sides to provide updated figures about how the money will
be allocated to beneficiaries in the settlement. The judge
scheduled a July 19 hearing for final approval.  “A lot of hard work has gone into this and it’s been a
remarkable effort on the part of everyone,” said Selna, after
attorneys for both sides said they will give financial details
to overcome concerns the judge expressed about the disbursement
of the settlement funds.  The company, based in Toyota City,  Japan , recalled more
than 10 million vehicles for problems related to unintended
acceleration in 2009 and 2010, starting with a September 2009
announcement that it was recalling 3.8 million Toyota and Lexus
vehicles because of a defect that may cause floor mats to jam
accelerator pedals. The company later recalled vehicles over
defects involving the pedals themselves.  “The judge has put the matter on hold while we come back
to him on the final payoff figures,” said plaintiffs’ attorney
Steve Berman. “It’s clear that he favors the settlement.”  Toyota attorney John P. Hooper agreed. “He’s sending out a
message that he likes the settlement but wants to hear the
figures,” said Hooper. “We’ve very pleased that the judge is
giving us the opportunity to come back and provide him the
figures that he wants.”  The settlement would resolve the economic-loss portion of
the Toyota sudden-acceleration  litigation . Class, or group,
actions were filed on behalf of Toyota owners who said the
company drove down their vehicles’ value by failing to disclose
or fix defects.  The federal cases are combined as In re  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  For more, click here.  Interviews  She Should Know: Former Partner Now Teaches Stress Management  Karen Krueger was once a partner at Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen
& Katz. She left the law, however, for three years of training
to become a certified teacher of the “Alexander Technique,” a
method of eliminating tension and stress. Bloomberg Law’s
Spencer Mazyck interviewed Krueger about her transition from
lawyer to a teacher of skills to manage stress, improve the
efficiency and ease of movements and posture, and deal with
chronic pain.  To see the interview, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  