-- Selling Yuan Advised by Deutsche Bank to Barclays on Flows
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-06-18T14:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/selling-yuan-advised-by-deutsche-bank-to-barclays-as-flows-ebb.html
Currency strategists from Barclays
Plc to Deutsche Bank AG are telling investors to sell the yuan,
this year’s best-performing emerging-market currency, as growth
slows in the world’s second-largest economy and inflows wane.  Policy makers will widen the yuan’s trading band, damping
the one-way bet on yuan gains, Barclays analysts led by  Igor Arsenin  said in a June 13 report. Deutsche Bank analysts wrote
two days earlier that the yuan carry trade will probably unwind
as Treasury yields rise. The yuan will start weakening after the
central bank set its fixing at a record high yesterday,
according to Amer Bisat, a  money manager  at Traxis Partners LP,
the $1.2 billion hedge fund started by  Barton Biggs .  China has used a stronger  exchange rate  to help curb credit
expansion, Bisat said in an interview yesterday in New York.
 Total lending  in China climbed by a record 2.5 trillion yuan
($408 billion) in March, government data showed, generating
concern that some loans may turn sour as banks loosen standards.  “We are not far away from the point where they can take
their foot off the brake,” said Bisat, a former International
Monetary Fund economist. “Chances are they would loosen
policies. It’s tough for me to see them strengthening the fixing
any further from here.”  The  yuan ’s fixing was set 0.09 percent weaker at 6.1651 per
dollar today. The currency, which is allowed to trade a maximum
1 percent either side of that level, declined 0.06 percent to
close at 6.1285 in Shanghai, according to China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. It has climbed 1.7 percent against the greenback
this year, the best performance among 24 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Call Options  One-month non-deliverable forwards fell 0.2 percent to
6.1840 as of 9:20 a.m. in New York, data compiled by Bloomberg
showed. That’s the biggest one-day drop since May 10.  Barclays analysts advised their clients to buy one-month
call options on the dollar against the yuan, predicting the
Chinese currency will weaken to 6.223 per dollar in overseas
trading. The yuan will drop 1.1 percent to 6.2 in the offshore
market as the slowing economy leads to  currency depreciation  in
line with Asian peers,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  analysts led by
 Jonathan Cavenagh  wrote in a June 7 report.  Capital inflows are slowing as China’s regulators demand
lenders curb foreign-currency loans on concern companies may
have exaggerated shipments to facilitate carry trades, in which
foreign investors seek higher yields abroad funded by borrowing
in countries with lower rates of interest.  Yuan positions  at
domestic lenders from foreign-exchange transactions, a gauge of
capital inflows, rose 67 billion yuan in May, the smallest gain
since November, data released by the People’s Bank of China on
June 14 showed.  Cheap Credit  Foreign-direct  investment  rose 0.3 percent to $9.26 billion
in May from a year earlier, the smallest gain in four months,
the Ministry of Commerce said in a statement in Beijing today.  The unwinding of the yuan carry trade could “end an
important source of cheap credit for China,” the Deutsche Bank
analysts wrote in their June 11 research note.  The yuan’s recent appreciation “suggests that the Chinese
government feels the economy is stronger than most believe,”
 Stephen Roach , a senior fellow at  Yale University  and former
non-executive chairman for Morgan Stanley Asia, said by e-mail.
“Otherwise, it wouldn’t be condoning a development that might
inhibit export growth.”  Room to Appreciate  Eswar Prasad, a former IMF official who teaches economics
at  Cornell University  in Ithaca, New York, said there is still
room for the yuan to appreciate as the economy recovers in the
second half of the year.  Chinese growth will hold at 7.8 percent this year,
maintaining the slowest expansion since 1999, according to the
median forecast of 53 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. China is
still expanding faster than the average 6.4 percent rate across
Asia, the survey showed.  The median estimate of 49 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg is
for the yuan to strengthen to 6.1 per dollar by year-end, and
rally further to 6 by the conclusion of 2014.  “Fundamentals in China are better than many other  emerging
markets ,” Prasad said in an interview yesterday. “That’s why
we are seeing the yuan performing better than the other Asian
currencies.”  Band Widening  As speculative capital retreats, it’s a “propitious time”
for policy markets to widen the currency’s trading band,
loosening control over the yuan, he said. The yuan is closer to
its fair value in terms of  trade balance , and it’s a priority
for the central bank to make the currency a two-way bet to
increase room for further reforms,  Andrew Colquhoun , the head of
Asia-Pacific Sovereigns at  Fitch Ratings , told reporters in  Hong
Kong  today.  Growth in the world’s largest economy after the U.S. is
losing momentum.  Exports (CNFREXPY)  increased 1 percent in May, after
gaining 15 percent the previous month, government data June 7
showed. Industrial production rose 9.2 percent, trailing the
median forecast of 9.4 percent among 39 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Interbank  funding costs  soared this month on speculation
the Chinese authorities are moving to rein in credit to avoid
bad loans. The seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of interbank
funding availability, has averaged 6.11 percent in June, the
most since the National Interbank Funding Center began compiling
a weighted average in 2006.  “We are in a moderately tightening cycle,” said Traxis
Partners’ Bisat. “The strengthening of the fixing is part of
that story.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  