-- Siemens Will Shut Solar Unit on $1 Billion Loss in Two Years
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-06-17T11:46:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/siemens-will-shut-solar-unit-as-it-loses-1-billion-in-two-years.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  will close its solar
power unit after struggling to find a buyer following losses of
at least 784 million euros ($1 billion) euros since 2011 amid
Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher ’s failed push into that
business to expand renewable energy offerings.  The shutdown of the solar division will affect about 280
workers at  Europe ’s biggest engineering company. Siemens, based
in Munich, will finish several solar projects and the closure
will cost a “double-digit million-euro” sum, spokesman Torsten Wolf said via phone.  The company paid $418 million to acquire Beit Shemesh,
Israel-based Solel Solar Systems in 2009 as Loescher sought to
replicate Siemens’ successful expansion into wind-power and win
more revenue from its so-called green portfolio. The division
was put up for sale in October as prices for solar technology
offerings declined because of a supply glut and weak demand.  It “has become evident that, due to the increasingly
difficult market situation, we will not find an investor for
this business,” Wolf said. “We had negotiations with a number
of interested parties but no agreement could be achieved.”  Siemens’ solar operations offered solar-thermal power
technology, whereby mirrors in so-called parabolic troughs focus
sunlight on liquids to generate steam and power turbines.  Plummeting Costs  The segment has been undermined by plummeting costs in the
competing photovoltaic panel sector. Three years ago energy from
the latter was 10 percent more expensive than solar-thermal,
while now it is less than half as much, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Siemens’ solar unit also struggled because of the
perception in North Africa, one of the biggest markets for the
industry, that the unit was an Israeli company, making it hard
to do business there amid the region’s political tensions,
according to a person familiar with the company’s strategy, who
asked not to be named because of the matter’s sensitivity. Wolf
declined to comment.  Siemens rose 1.5 percent to 80.51 euros as of 1:44 p.m. in
Frankfurt trading, valuing the company at 71 billion euros.
Before today, the stock had declined 3.5 percent this year.  At the time of the acquisition, Solel had more than 500
employees. Siemens also increased its stake in Italian solar
thermal specialist  Archimede Solar Energy Srl  to 45 percent in
2010. Siemens then returned its stake in Archimede to majority
shareholder Angelantoni Industrie SpA before announcing its
plans to leave the solar sector, according to spokesman Wolf.  Rising Charges  Amid the rising charges for the failed push into solar
energy and delayed train deliveries, Loescher in May cut the
company’s profit forecast for the fourth time in his six-year
tenure, prompting investors to question whether he’ll be able to
reach a target for matching profitability at rivals  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)   His target is to boost the operational profit margin to 12
percent by the next fiscal year. That compares with a 9.5
percent margin in 2012, when ABB and General Electric had
margins of 10.3 percent and 15 percent respectively.  Siemens said today it will complete unfinished solar
contracts, which include projects in  Spain , where it paid 115
million euros in charges in the three months to the end of
December for delays in the sector, before finalizing the unit’s
closure.  Siemens’s shuttering of the solar unit was first reported
by Handelsblatt today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  