-- SingTel Said to Get Bids From Eutelsat, SES, KKR for Optus Unit
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y ,   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-06-17T06:58:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/singtel-said-to-get-bids-from-eutelsat-ses-kkr-for-optus-unit.html
Eutelsat SA (ETL) , SES SA and KKR & Co.
made offers for  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd.’s (ST)  Australian
satellite unit, said three people with knowledge of the matter.  The bidders, which also include buyout firm  Carlyle Group
LP (CG) , made offers for the Optus Satellite division last week, said
the people, asking not to be identified as the information is
private. SingTel is seeking more than A$2 billion ($1.9 billion)
for the business, people familiar with the matter said last
month.  With five spacecraft in orbit, Optus Satellite provides
television, radio, phone, Internet data and military signals to
 Australia , New Zealand and parts of the Antarctic, according to
the  website  of its parent company, Optus. SingTel, as Southeast
Asia’s biggest phone company is known, acquired the satellite
unit as part of its $9.69 billion takeover of Optus, Australia’s
second-largest phone company, in 2001.  SingTel, based in  Singapore , began the sale of the
satellite division last month as it chases new sources of growth
amid  slowing sales  in Australia and Singapore. Divesting the
unit, which had revenue of A$319 million in the year ended March
2012, would help finance the S$2 billion ($1.6 billion) of
acquisitions that SingTel is planning. The company, which is
being advised by Credit Suisse Group AG and Morgan Stanley,
hasn’t reported separate earnings figures for Optus Satellite
since the 2001 takeover.  At A$2 billion, the deal would be the largest acquisition
of a telecommunications asset in Australia since SingTel’s
purchase of Optus, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Operating Margins  Typical operating margins at satellite telecommunications
companies are 80 percent of sales, and the carriers are
typically valued at six times to eight times earnings, Sachin Gupta, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Singapore, said in
March. That would put a price tag of as much as A$2.04 billion
on the Optus business based on its sales, he estimated.  Michele Batchelor, a spokeswoman for SingTel, declined to
comment, as did SES spokesman Yves Feltes and Eutelsat’s Vanessa
O’Connor. Representatives for Carlyle and KKR declined to
comment or weren’t immediately available. Reuters reported on
the bidders earlier, citing an unidentified person.  KKR, the private-equity firm run by Henry Kravis and  George
Roberts , last month sold its remaining 12 percent stake in
Australia’s largest free-to-air broadcaster Seven West Media
Ltd. for A$261 million. The New York-based firm last year
considered a sale of its mining services and logistics unit BIS
Industries Ltd. and held unsuccessful talks to buy apparel maker
Pacific Brands Ltd.  Eutelsat ‘Vigilant’  Carlyle is seeking to sell its stake in Australian
equipment rental company Coates Hire Ltd., which it owns
together with Seven Group Holdings Ltd. The Washington-based
buyout firm and TPG Capital bought Australian hospital operator
Healthscope Ltd. for A$2.7 billion, including debt, in 2010.  Eutelsat, which will outline its three-year strategic plan
on July 30, said in May it was looking for acquisitions.  “We’re in an industry where there are not many, so it is
our duty to be vigilant,” Chief Executive Officer Michel de Rosen said on a May 8 conference call with analysts. The company
isn’t considering a “transformational” deal, he said.  SES (SESG) , the world’s largest publicly traded satellite
operator, in May forecast full-year revenue growth of 6.5
percent to 7.5 percent. Asia-Pacific is the company’s second-fastest growing region in terms of sales, it said in January.  Optus Satellite broadcasts signals to more than two million
Australian households and companies and will launch a sixth
satellite this year, according to SingTel. Its customers include
state-owned Australian Broadcasting Corp., the Foxtel joint
venture between  Telstra Corp. (TLS)  and News Corp., and Australia’s
Department of Defence.  Optus Satellite’s C1 orbiter carries communications for
Australia’s military, including secure messages and imagery
that’s sent to troops, according to a 2003 statement by the
country’s defense minister.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  