-- Singh to Appoint Ministers as India’s Congress Gears Up for Poll
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-06-17T07:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/singh-to-appoint-ministers-as-india-s-congress-gears-up-for-poll.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
will today fill vacancies in his cabinet in what may be his last
reshuffle ahead of elections due in less than a year.  On the eve of the overhaul, the ruling  Congress  party
handed positions to a raft of young politicians and appointed
senior members to run its affairs in key states. The Congress
leadership, damaged by a series of corruption scandals since
2010 and slumping economic growth, is seeking to energize a
party that trailed rivals in opinion polls last month.  The changes to Singh’s council of ministers will be
confirmed at 5:30 p.m. local time today at a ceremony in the
colonial-era president’s palace in central New Delhi, said Venu
Rajamony, press secretary to President  Pranab Mukherjee . Singh
needs to fill openings at various ministries, including those in
charge of railways, highways, housing and law.  With India scheduled to vote for a new government before
the end of May next year, political tensions are rising. While
Singh is bidding to force through ballot-winning legislation,
the main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party  papered over a split
among its top leadership last week triggered by the promotion of
Gujarat’s Narendra Modi. The BJP’s biggest ally quit the
opposition alliance yesterday, citing its aversion to Modi.  Pawan Kumar Bansal resigned as railways minister in May
after the  Central Bureau of Investigation  arrested a member of
his family on charges he accepted money to help secure an
official post in the rail department. Ashwani Kumar quit as law
minister after the CBI told  India ’s top court that he was among
officials who vetted a probe report on an award of coal mines
award and altered its contents. Both men deny any wrongdoing.  Poll Results  Two other ministers -- C.P. Joshi and Ajay Maken --resigned
as ministers of highways and housing respectively at the weekend
to take up key posts in the Congress party apparatus. Labor
Minister Mallikarjun Kharge may be put in charge of the railways
portfolio, while Oscar Fernandes may become the new highways
minister, the Times of India newspaper reported, citing people
it didn’t name.  About 67 percent of those polled last month for CNN-IBN
said Singh’s government has lost its credibility in the face of
graft scandals and rising prices. Only 31 percent said the
Congress party-led coalition represented the best option for
running India. A C-voter survey for the Times Now TV channel
found in April that a drop in support for Congress would slash
its strength in parliament after an election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  