-- Singapore Residential Sales Rose 5.4% in May After April Slump
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-06-17T05:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/singapore-residential-sales-rose-5-4-in-may-after-april-slump.html
Singapore’s home sales rose 5.4
percent in May as developers marketed new projects, according to
the Urban Redevelopment Authority.  Home sales rose to 1,455 units last month from 1,380 units
in April, the authority said. Sales dropped 51 percent in April
as developers marketed fewer projects while residential prices
posted the smallest gain in three quarters.  The island-state’s private residential property  price index 
rose 0.6 percent in the three months ended March, according to
separate data issued in April by URA. Government measures in
January, the seventh round of curbs in about four years,
included an increase in stamp duties for homebuyers by 5
percentage points to 7 percentage points.  Corals At Keppel Bay developed by Keppel Bay Pte. sold 132
units of 160 marketed last month, while Stratum in the city’s
east sold 269 of 380 units marketed, according to the data.  Singapore plans to release three residential sites and two
commercial & residential sites for sale in June, the Authority
said separately on its website today. The five sites together
can yield about 3,600 residential units, it said.  The curbs in January also included higher taxes on
permanent residents when they buy their first home, and for
Singaporeans starting with their second purchase.  Singapore  also plans to raise taxes for luxury homeowners
and residential properties that are rented out. The higher tax
will apply to the top 1 percent of homeowners who live in their
own residences, or 12,000 properties, Singapore Finance Minister
Tharman Shanmugaratnam said in his budget speech on Feb. 25.  The government tightened loan-to-value limits for buyers
seeking a second mortgage, referring to the amount they are
allowed to borrow relative to the value of their properties. The
cash down-payment will rise to 25 percent from 10 percent
starting from the second loan, it said.  Singapore has been attempting to rein in prices since 2009,
when the government barred interest-only loans for some housing
projects and stopped allowing developers to absorb interest
payments for apartments still being built.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  