-- Smithfield Investor Urges Hog Farmer to Consider Breakup
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h   a n d   S i m o n   C a s e y
-- 2013-06-18T03:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/smithfield-investor-urges-u-s-hog-producer-to-consider-breakup.html
Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD) , the hog
producer that’s agreed to a $4.7 billion bid from Shuanghui
International Holdings Ltd., was urged by activist investor
Starboard Value LP to consider splitting itself up instead.  A breakup may value the world’s largest hog and pork
producer at about $44 to $55 a share, the investor, which said
it holds a 5.7 percent stake in the company, wrote in a letter
to Smithfield’s board yesterday. Hong Kong-based Shuanghui
agreed in May to pay $34 a share for the Smithfield, Virginia-based company.  “We question whether the board gave sufficient
consideration to a sale of the divisions in separate
transactions, or whether it focused primarily on an all-cash
transaction for the company as a whole,” Starboard Chief
Executive Officer Jeffrey C. Smith said in the letter.  Smithfield said in an e-mailed statement that it will
review the letter and reiterated its recommendation that
shareholders accept Shuanghui’s offer. The Chinese company’s
offer is good for Smithfield shareholders, investors and
employees, Robert Wan, spokesman for Shuanghui, said by phone
today from  Hong Kong .  The U.S. producer faced similar demands in March from
shareholder Continental Grain Co. as rising animal-feed costs
made hog production unprofitable. Continental said in April a
breakup into three businesses would achieve a stock price of $40
within three years. It subsequently backed the bid from
Shuanghui and said it will exit its holding after the deal.  Shares of Smithfield rose 0.9 percent to $33.08 in New York
yesterday.  Increased Offer  Shuanghui Chairman Wan Long said May 31 the company may
raise its offer to meet other bids if necessary. The transaction
by China’s top pork producer is valued at about $7.1 billion
including debt.  “Raising the offer for Smithfield would have to prolong
the time for Shuanghui to recover costs,” James Feng, general
manager at Soozhu.com,  China ’s biggest independent hog
researcher, said today. “A higher valuation of Smithfield may
force Shuanghui to walk away.”  While Smithfield can’t actively seek better offers, it can
respond to unsolicited bids that are superior to Shuanghui’s, a
person familiar with the matter said May 29.  Shuanghui may be the only remaining buyer for Smithfield
after Charoen Pokphand Foods Pcl of  Thailand  and JBS SA of
 Brazil  both walked from the sale process, said Thomas Sandell.
His investment firm, Sandell Asset Management Corp., acquired
150,000 Smithfield shares in the first quarter for about $26
apiece, he said.  Breakup Fee  The breakup fee climbs after the go-shop period expires,
said Sandell, who hadn’t yet read Starboard’s proposal.  “That might make it a little more onerous for other
parties to get in here,” he said yesterday on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers” with  Erik Schatzker  and Sara Eisen. There’s “a little bit of a concern that there might just
be one buyer.”  Starboard, a New York-based investment adviser that has
pushed for changes at retailer  Office Depot Inc. (ODP)  and Internet
company  AOL Inc. (AOL)  in the past year, said it’s not necessarily
opposing the Shuanghui takeover.  Estimated Value  “We believe the proposed merger goes a long way towards
unlocking the intrinsic value of the company for shareholders,”
Smith said in the letter. “We would be remiss, however, to let
an opportunity slip by to determine whether the company could
realize even greater value.”  Starboard estimates the pretax value of the hog unit to be
between $1.9 billion and $2.3 billion; the international
operations to be between $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion; and the
pork division should be worth between $6.2 billion and $7.9
billion.  “It seems high on the hog-production side,” Ann Gurkin, a
Richmond, Virginia-based analyst for Davenport & Co., said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  In a March 8 report, Gurkin estimated the sum-of-the-parts
value for the whole company at $8.9 billion including net debt,
with the hog unit worth $702 million, the international
operations $990 million and the pork division $7.2 billion.  Pork Consumption  The six analysts’ estimates for Smithfield’s post-breakup
value -- compiled in March after Continental Grain first made
its proposal -- ranged from $26 to $48 a share.  Smithfield has attracted interest from China as the
country’s growing middle class boosts pork consumption. A
takeover by Shuanghui would be the biggest Chinese purchase of a
U.S. company and follows other global food and agriculture-related acquisitions. Smithfield and Shuanghui said May 29 they
expected the deal to close this year.  Smithfield’s livestock unit produces about 15.8 million
hogs a year, according to the company’s website. It owns 460
farms and has contracts with 2,100 others across 12 U.S. states.  Starboard’s call to consider a breakup was first reported
by the Wall Street Journal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Casey in  New York  at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  