-- SocGen Sees More Gold ETP Sales, Lower Price on ‘Paradigm Shift’
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-06-17T12:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/socgen-sees-more-gold-etp-sales-lower-price-on-paradigm-shift-.html
Gold holdings through exchange-traded products will probably drop another 285 metric tons this
year as prices fall further on speculation the U.S. economic
recovery will mean less stimulus, Societe Generale SA said.  Prices will average $1,200 an ounce in the fourth quarter,
compared with $1,386.47 now, the bank said in report today. It
previously forecast a drop to $1,375 by the end of the year,
before the metal slid into a  bear market  in April. A “sharp”
price-drop could spur a “big increase” in producer hedging, or
sales of future production, according to Societe Generale.  Bullion is heading for its first annual drop since 2000
after some investors lost faith in the metal as a store of value
and an improving  U.S. economy  increased speculation the Fed may
taper quantitative-easing measures. While the slump spurred
purchases of coins and jewelry worldwide, investors reduced ETP
holdings so far this year by 515.1 tons that’s now valued at $23
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The dramatic gold sell-off in April, combined with the
prospect of the Fed starting to taper its QE programme before
year-end, has resulted in a paradigm shift in many investors’
attitude towards gold,” analysts including  Robin Bhar  in  London 
wrote in the report. “Inflation has so far stayed low. We would
expect large-scale gold selling from investors who bought gold
as a hedge against medium-term inflation.”  ETP Holdings  Global gold ETP holdings stand at 2,116.8 tons after
falling the past 18 weeks, the worst run since the first product
was listed in 2003. Total sales will reach 800 tons by the end
of this year with another 500 tons being sold in 2014, Societe
Generale estimates. Prices fell 17 percent in London this year.  The metal’s plunge is hurting producers already contending
with rising costs.  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) ,  Australia ’s largest
gold producer, said this month it will write down the value of
its assets by as much as A$6 billion ($5.9 billion) after the
slump. While concern about costs may slow a decline below
$1,200, it’s unlikely to provide a “firm support” until prices
near $1,000,  Societe Generale  said.  Mining companies can sell future output at fixed prices to
secure loans and can reduce hedges by buying back contracts.
They cut the size of the global hedge book over the last 10
years amid gold’s longest bull run in at least nine decades.  Producer Hedging  “It is our impression that gold producers are starting to
consider hedging and we would expect to see a substantial step-up in hedging this year compared to last year, which is likely
to be the beginning of a new trend,” the bank said. An increase
in hedging would push prices lower, it wrote.  Unprecedented money printing by central banks to bolster
economic growth helped send U.S. equities to a record in May
while failing to spur inflation. Expectations for increases in
consumer prices, as measured by the break-even  rate  for 10-year
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, fell 16 percent this
year, reaching a 17-month low last week.  The Fed starts a two-day policy meeting tomorrow. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last month the central bank, which
is buying $85 billion of Treasuries and mortgage securities a
month to spur the economy, could pare quantitative easing if the
U.S. economy improves sustainably.  As ETP holdings dropped, there have been signs that lower
prices are boosting physical buying elsewhere. The U.K.’s Royal
Mint, which saw its gold-coin sales triple in April, said this
month the “steep increase” in demand continued in the past
several weeks. The  U.S. Mint  has predicted that its gold and
silver coin sales may reach a record in 2013, and the Austrian
Mint said it expects “quite good business” in the next couple
of months.  “We believe that the dramatic price drop in mid-April was
the beginning of the deflation of a bubble,” Societe Generale
said. “We expect continued ETF selling to exceed higher demand
for jewelery/bars and coins.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  