-- Solarworld Jumps on Reports of Qatar Interest in Holding
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-06-17T10:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/solarworld-jumps-on-reports-of-qatar-interest-in-holding.html
Solarworld AG (SWV) , Germany’s biggest
maker of solar panels, rose the most in four months after
newspapers reported that Qatar Solar Technologies will help
finance a restructuring by acquiring a 30 percent stake.  Solarworld  surged  as much as 25 percent to 86 euro cents,
the sharpest intraday jump since Feb. 13, and was up 24 percent
at 12:11 p.m. in Frankfurt. That pared the stock’s decline this
year to 20 percent. Volume was more than double the three-month
daily average.  The investor, a unit of the  Qatar Foundation , plans to
spend as much as 35 million euros ($47 million) on the holding
when Solarworld sells new stock, and it may buy a convertible
bond that will add about 200 million euros to the Bonn-based
target’s treasury, publications including the Wall Street
Journal and  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  reported in the past two days,
citing unidentified people in the financial industry.  Solarworld’s  losses have widened  amid intensifying
competition, mainly from China, that pushed average solar-panel
prices down 75 percent from 2009 through 2012. That propelled
more than a dozen German businesses including  Solar Millennium
AG (S2M)  and Q-Cells SE, once the largest solar-cell maker, into
bankruptcy. Solarworld is working to complete a deal based on an
initial accord with creditors in May on a debt-to-equity swap to
help cut non-current liabilities by about 60 percent.  Chief Executive Officer Frank Asbeck will contribute about
11 million euros of equity capital to the restructuring effort
and may retain about 20 percent of the company’s shares,
according to the Journal.  Milan Nitzschke, a Solarworld spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment. Spokesmen at Qatar Solar didn’t
immediately respond to e-mail and phone messages seeking
comment.  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s biggest engineering company, said
separately today that it will close its solar-power division
after failing to find a buyer and losing at least 784 million
euros on the project. The Munich-based company put the unit on
sale in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  