-- State Bank Pares Debt Holding to Boost Profit: Corporate India
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-06-18T11:54:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/state-bank-pares-debt-holding-to-boost-profit-corporate-india.html
State Bank of India (SBIN) , the nation’s
largest lender, said profit from sale of investments will see a
“substantial” jump after the rupee’s plunge prompted the
company to accelerate selling its government debt holdings.  The state-run lender sold the securities because the
currency’s depreciation will halt further easing of bond yields
after the biggest drop since 2008, Pradeep Kumar, head of global
markets at the lender, said in an interview, without giving
details.  India ’s central bank yesterday kept its benchmark rate
at 7.25 percent and flagged “upside” pressures on consumer
prices from a further fall in Asia’s worst-performing currency
this quarter.  “For the next three months, bond yields below 7 percent
don’t look possible,” Kumar said in his office in Mumbai.
“Depreciating rupee makes inflation stubborn,” which prompted
State Bank to “book substantial profits,” he said.  Gains from selling part of its debt holdings will help the
Mumbai-based company revive profit from the first slump in two
years, according to Nitin Kumar, an analyst at Quant Broking
Ltd. Analysts forecast the bank’s  profit , which dropped 18
percent in the three months to March, to fall for a second
straight quarter in the period ending June 30 as bad loans rise.  State Bank’s  shares , which have dropped 14 percent this
year, fell 1.1 percent to 2,043.6 rupees in Mumbai. The
benchmark S&P BSE Sensex has dropped 1.1 percent.  The lender’s profit will drop 0.5 percent to 37.3 billion
rupees ($643.5 million) in the three months ending June 30,
according to an average of three analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Yields Rebound  The yield on the benchmark 8.15 percent notes due June 2022
have rebounded from 7.34 percent touched on May 27, the lowest
level since the securities were issued, as the rupee’s losses
threatens to stoke inflation by making imported goods costlier.
The yield rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
7.48 percent in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system.  Asia’s third-largest economy buys about 80 percent of its
crude supplies from overseas. Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s
biggest refiner, on June 15 raised gasoline prices by 2 rupees a
liter.  State Bank’s treasury also revamped its equity investments
in the year ended March 31 by purchasing shares in the 50-company  CNX Nifty Index (NIFTY)  and selling illiquid stocks and shares
outside the index to help curtail volatility in profits at the
treasury business, Kumar said.  The bank will hold investment in shares for the long-term,
he said. Kumar declined to give details. The lender reported a
profit of 11 billion rupees on sale of investments in the 12
months to March 31 after reporting a 9.2 billion rupee loss a
year earlier, filings to  exchange  show.  ‘Wide Fluctuations’  “Wide fluctuations in treasury income was a wild card in
State Bank’s earnings in recent years,” Hatim Broachwala, a
Mumbai-based banking analyst at Karvy Stock Broking Ltd., said
by phone on June 14. “Overhauling the portfolio to add bluechip
stocks adds more predictability to the results.”  Indian banks have to keep at least 23 percent of their
total assets in securities including government debt, according
to a central bank rule.  Improving treasury profit will help lenders grappling with
rising bad loans amid decade-low economic expansion and high
borrowing costs. Restructured assets and bad loans at banks will
continue to rise in the year ending March 2014, Broachwala said.  Monetary Policy  State-run banks’ stressed assets, including those to
grounded carrier  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  and wind-turbine maker
Suzlon Energy Ltd., were at 11.59 percent as of Dec. 31, Fitch
Ratings Ltd. said in an e-mail on June 14.  Net bad debt at State Bank widened to 2.1 percent of loans
as of March 31 from 1.8 percent in the year before, exchange
filings show. The measure at  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the second-largest
by assets, was at 0.64 percent as of March 31.  India’s monetary-policy stance will be determined by the
evolution of economic growth, inflation and the balance of
payments in the months ahead, the Reserve Bank said yesterday
after leaving borrowings costs unchanged.  “It is only a durable receding of inflation that will open
up the space for monetary policy,” amid a record current-account deficit and elevated food prices.  India’s wholesale-price index increased 4.7 percent in May
from a year earlier, a 43-month low. At the same time, a
separate consumer inflation gauge climbed 9.31 percent. The
rupee plunged 1.6 percent to 58.7725 to a dollar.  Rate Pause  “After factoring in the risks to inflation and also the
global financial markets, we see a bigger probability for the
RBI to stay on a pause in the July policy meeting,”  Indranil Pan , chief economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd., said in an e-mail. “We also believe that the chances of an extended pause
have increased.”  Borrowing costs in the $1.8 trillion economy are the
highest among major Asian economies even after the Reserve Bank
cut its policy rate thrice since January.  Companies are balking at the high interest rates reducing
demand for loans. State Bank’s  net interest income  rose 0.1
percent in the three months ended March 31. The lender reported
its first drop in net interest income since 2006 in the
preceding quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Loans at Indian lenders grew 14.1 percent in 12 months to
May 31 after expanding 13.9 percent, slowest in more than three
years, data compiled by the central bank shows.  State Bank had 500 billion rupees in additional liquidity
as of June 12 as demand for loans slowed, Kumar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  