-- Steinbrueck’s Tears Betray Campaign Emotion Amid Slump in Polls
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   B i r g i t   J e n n e n
-- 2013-06-17T16:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/steinbrueck-s-tears-betray-campaign-emotion-amid-slump-in-polls.html
German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
main challenger,  Peer Steinbrueck , teared up at a party event
that sought to play on his compassionate side, as a poll showed
his Social Democrats at their lowest level of the year.  Steinbrueck, in an on-stage interview yesterday with his
wife Gertrud, was overcome by emotion as she told an audience in
Berlin they enjoy simple pursuits such as playing scrabble, and
that the chancellor candidate pilloried in the German media for
perceived gaffes wasn’t the man she knew.  “He must have really wanted to change something in order
to give up something like that voluntarily,” said Gertrud
Steinbrueck, according to a video of the event posted on  the
SPD’s website  and run on television channels today. Steinbrueck
was unable to respond to his wife’s comments, and signaled his
discomfort with his hands. The audience gave them a standing
ovation.  Little more than three months before the Sept. 22 election,
Steinbrueck may need to adapt his campaign strategy to whittle
down a poll lead of 16 percentage points held by Merkel’s
Christian Democratic bloc after policy announcements and the
unveiling of a shadow Cabinet failed to make an impact on voter
support.  Steinbrueck’s SPD dropped a point to 25 percent in a weekly
Emnid poll for Bild am Sonntag newspaper yesterday. That’s the
lowest level since January, and compared with 41 percent for
Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union-led bloc. Emnid polled 2,727
voters on June 6-12. No margin of error was given.  ‘Compassion Effect’  “It’d be surprising if an emotionalized campaign brought a
significant change” in support, Reinhard Schlinkert, the
director of pollster  Infratest Dimap , whose survey two days
earlier put the SPD at 26 percent to 41 percent for the CDU-led
bloc, said in an interview today. “The compassion effect
usually doesn’t help much.”  Steinbrueck, Merkel’s first-term finance minister, last
week laid out his party’s plan to undertake a get-out-the-vote
operation in the final phase of the campaign to attract
disaffected voters. Also last week, he fired his chief spokesman
having failed to gain any resonance with voters on a campaign of
social justice and tax increases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Birgit Jennen in Berlin at 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  