-- Stephen King’s Scary Library Needs $9 Million Repair: Muni Deals
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-06-17T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/stephen-king-s-scary-library-needs-9-million-repair-muni-deals.html
Readers of Stephen King’s novel
“It” know the Bangor Public Library as a hiding spot for the
title character, a deranged clown on a murderous rampage. In
real life, the library is falling apart.  Voters in the  Maine  riverfront town of 33,000 will decide
tomorrow whether to back a $3 million tax-exempt bond issue to
help repair the library’s 101-year-old copper roof. A “yes”
vote would help unlock a matching gift from Bangor’s most famous
couple, Stephen and Tabitha King.  “The library is the heart of the community,” Barbara
McDade, the library’s director, said by telephone. “People in
Bangor check out 14 books a year on average, and 816 people use
the library every day. I have not heard any opposition to the
plans. I am hopeful it will pass.”  The vote is the first of its kind in Bangor after residents
last year required referendums for any borrowing above $1
million. If approved, the general-obligation bonds would be
supported by a property tax increase of as much as $12 per year
for the typical $150,000 home, said Treasurer Deborah Cyr.  King, 65, was living in Bangor and teaching English at a
public school nearby when Doubleday & Co. bought his novel
“Carrie.” The 1974 high-school horror tale was a hit and jump-started his career. He developed a global cult following of
frightened readers with titles including “The Shining,”
“Cujo” and “Misery.” Bangor serves as the inspiration for
the fictionalized town of “Derry” that appears in many of his
books.  Copper Dome  Topped with an oxidized copper dome, the three-floor,
60,000-square-foot  library  has been a staple of Bangor’s skyline
since 1913. Storms have sent rainwater streaming down walls and
onto bookshelves, exposing the need for renovations, said
McDade, who’s heading the campaign urging a “yes” vote.  The total cost of the renovation is $9 million, which would
be split evenly among the bond issue, the Kings’ donation and
the library’s own fundraising, she said. In addition to roof
repair, the interior will be modernized and more meeting spaces
added.  The Kings, who are both authors, met in the library at the
University of Maine in Orono, just a few minutes up the road
from the Victorian mansion they now own, according to his
website. Both are avid users of the Bangor library, and Tabitha
King served on its board for 12 years, McDade said. First
editions of all of Stephen King’s titles are stored in the
vault.  Port Days  Bangor, on the Penobscot River, bustled with sawmills and
shipyards as one of the East Coast’s busiest ports in the 1800s,
and is now the state’s third-most-populous city. It has an
annual budget of $119 million and $138 million in outstanding
debt, including for its airport and wastewater treatment plant,
which are self-sustaining and use no taxpayer money, Cyr said.  The city sold $53.8 million of tax-exempt general-obligation bonds in July to finance construction of a 
convention center and arena.  Securities maturing in July 2042 priced to yield 3.39
percent, or 0.54 percentage point above benchmark debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They were valued last
week at a yield spread of 0.76 percentage point, BVAL pricing
analysis shows.  The bonds have an Aa2 rating from Moody’s Investors
Service, the third-highest level.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story: 