-- Stock Futures in Hong Kong, Australia Rise; Japan Futures Fall
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-06-17T23:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/stock-futures-in-hong-kong-australia-rise-japan-futures-fall.html
Stock futures in Hong Kong and
Australia rose as the  Federal Reserve  begins a two-day policy
meeting and a report showed U.S. homebuilder confidence soared
to a seven-year high. Japanese equity futures declined.  American Depositary Receipts  of BHP Billiton Ltd., the
world’s largest mining company, climbed 1 percent from the close
in Sydney. ADRs of Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., the world’s
largest cargo and freight carrier, added 0.2 percent. Those of
carmaker Nissan Motor Co. sank 0.5 percent as the yen
strengthened from the close of equity markets in  Tokyo 
yesterday.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
September closed at 12,955 in Chicago yesterday, down from
13,060 at the close in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 12,990 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on
 Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced 0.2 percent before the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia releases minutes from its most recent
policy meeting. Futures on Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index gained
0.4 percent. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index rose 0.6 percent.  “An unwinding of quantitative easing will strengthen the
view that the U.S. recovery is constructive,” said Matthew Sherwood, the Sydney-based head of investment market research at
Perpetual Ltd., which manages about $25 billion. “It is a case
of taking your foot slightly off the accelerator, rather than
applying it to the brake. Shares and credit should continue to
be outperforming themes.”  Chinese Companies  Futures on the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
mainland Chinese companies trading in  Hong Kong  added 0.6
percent. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 1.9 percent in  New York 
yesterday.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1
percent. The gauge yesterday climbed 0.8 percent as investors
watched economic reports for clues to whether the economy is
strong enough to allow the Fed to scale back its $85 billion in
monthly bond buying.  Confidence among U.S. homebuilders surged in June to the
highest level in seven years, reflecting gains in sales as
Americans rushed to take advantage of low  mortgage rates , a
report showed yesterday. Separately, manufacturers in the New
York region were more optimistic in June, indicating the area’s
factories are looking beyond the current slowdown in growth.  About $2.7 trillion has been erased from the value of
global equities since Bernanke indicated May 22 that stimulus
aimed at bolstering the world’s largest economy could be scaled
back.  That left the MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark
regional equities gauge, yesterday trading at 12.7 times average
estimated earnings compared with 14.9 for the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  and 13 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yen traded at 94.69 per dollar as of 7:57 a.m. in
Tokyo, strengthening from 94.86 at the 3 p.m. close of Japanese
equity markets yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  