-- Sundance Energy Will Look to Acquire More U.S. Shale Assets
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-06-17T02:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/sundance-energy-will-look-to-acquire-more-u-s-shale-assets.html
Sundance Energy Australia Ltd. (SEA) , an
explorer that entered the Eagle Ford shale formation of  Texas 
this year with the purchase of Texon Petroleum Ltd., said it
will look to make further U.S. oil and gas acquisitions.  Sundance is capable of making another deal the size of the
Texon transaction, valued at about A$100 million ($96 million),
and will consider adding acreage through drilling leases or
purchases, Managing Director Eric McCrady said in an interview
in Sydney. The Denver-based company isn’t negotiating any
acquisitions at present, he said.  Sundance, which also bought acres in Colorado in 2012,
plans to invest about $225 million drilling wells in the U.S.
this year and expects spending to increase next year. The
company is focusing on oil and gas basins in Texas, Colorado,
 Oklahoma  and  North Dakota .  “Something the size of Texon is a manageable acquisition
for us, and it could even be slightly larger,” McCrady said
June 14. “The main focus right now is drilling up the assets we
have today.”  In the U.S., a combination of horizontal drilling and
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, has unlocked supplies trapped
in shale formations in states from North Dakota to Texas and
sparked a wave of deals in the industry.  ‘Below Radar’  The company was the third-best performer on  Australia ’s
S&P/ASX 300 Energy Index in the last 12 months, with only  Caltex
Australia Ltd. (CTX)  and  Linc Energy Ltd. (LNC)  posting bigger gains. The
company expects to drill as many as 40 wells next year, compared
with as many as 30 wells this year, McCrady said.  Sundance, which is traded in Sydney and has a market value
of about about A$394 million, acquired about 7,300 net acres in
the Eagle Ford through the Texon deal.  “We need to be acquiring assets that are below the radar
of larger competitors who drive up valuations,” McCrady said.  Sundance Energy raised A$48.1 million selling shares and
plans to use the proceeds partly to accelerate development in
the Eagle Ford, it said May 31. The company had about $145
million of cash at the end of March, it said this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  