-- Suntory IPO Signals Threat to Demand From Volatile Market
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i   a n d   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-06-18T03:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/suntory-drinks-unit-sets-ipo-price-range-at-3-000-3-800-yen.html
Suntory Holdings Ltd. set the widest
price range for a  Japan  initial public offering of above $1
billion in at least five years, as market volatility threatens
to undermine demand for shares in its soft-drinks unit.  The Tokyo-based Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. will be priced
between 3,000 yen and 3,800 yen, it said in a filing with
Japan’s Finance Ministry yesterday. Selling stock at the lower
end, 21 percent below the tentative price set in May, would cut
more than $1 billion from the maximum $5 billion sought in
Japan’s biggest IPO this year.  “The market itself was not in the situation where stocks
take on premiums,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , chief fund manager at
Shinkin Asset Management Co. The IPO price “was dragged down by
the market conditions. I think they seem a little cautious.”  Suntory Beverage is providing the price band after the
Nikkei 225 plunged on May 23 and entered a bear market last
week. Shares have fallen amid a strengthening yen,
disappointment about Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s delay in
implementing a growth strategy and concern the U.S. Federal
Reserve will scale back stimulus.  The benchmark Topix index lost 10 percent from May 29, when
the Suntory unit gave its tentative IPO price, through June 14.  “The recent volatility in the market makes it difficult
for us to see how investors would respond to the IPO price,”
Tetsuo Ichimoto at corporate communications at Suntory Beverage
& Food, said over the phone yesterday. The Nikkei 225 plunged
7.3 percent on May 23.  Biggest 2013 Offering  The Tokyo listing will raise 375.6 billion yen ($3.96
billion) to 475.8 billion yen based on the sale of 125.2 million
shares including over allotment, according to a Bloomberg
calculation. The IPO would be Japan’s biggest initial public
offering since Japan Airlines Co.’s 663 billion yen offering in
September, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The offer price will be finalized on June 24 and the unit
will begin trading on July 3.  In Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co.’s 2010 IPO, the proposed
lower end of the range was 19 percent below the high end,
compared with 14 percent for Nexon Co. in 2011 and 7.7 percent
for Japan Airlines in 2012.  Overseas Acquisitions  Osaka-based Suntory Holdings as well as Japanese rivals
such as  Asahi Group Holdings Ltd. (2502)  and Kirin Holdings Co. have
sought growth overseas as a declining population damps domestic
demand.  The closely held Japanese whiskey and beer maker is known
for its motto ’Yatteminahare’ or “go for it,” the slogan
created by its founder Shinjiro Torii.  It has focused overseas  acquisitions  on non-alcohol
beverages over the past five years and has been exploring ways
to fund deals and has set up a department within the listing
unit to explore mergers and acquisitions. Suntory Holdings had a
20 percent market share in Japan’s non-alcoholic drink market in
2012, the second biggest after Coca-Cola Co.’s 28 percent,
according to researcher Inryosoken.  The IPO proceeds will be used for investments including
acquisitions to strengthen operations in developed and  emerging
markets , according to the company’s prospectus.  About 350 billion yen of the proceeds will be used for
Suntory Beverage, and the remaining of about 120 billion yen
will be used for Suntory Holdings, which will stay unlisted,
Midori Takahashi, a spokeswoman for the parent company said in
May, when the company set the tentative price of 3,800 yen.  Lacking Interest  A lack of interest in the Suntory Beverage IPO could be
part of the reason for the wide price range rather than poor
market conditions, said Ichiro Takamatsu, a fund manager at
Bayview Asset Management.  “The reason why the low end of the range is far from the
the tentative price end is I think because not so many people
showed interest,” he said. “The price range is expensive in
terms of valuation compared to its rivals.”  The company is over optimistic about the impact of
Abenomics on domestic consumption and its profit growth rate
forecast for this year is “too high,” he said. Since taking
office, Prime Minister Abe has unleashed a barrage of
deregulation initiatives, extreme monetary easing, a 2 percent
inflation target and $102 billion in stimulus under the program
that is known as Abenomics.  Net income at Suntory Holdings will increase 45 percent to
53 billion yen for the year ending Dec. 31, the company forecast
in February. Revenue is projected to rise 9.1 percent to 2.02
trillion yen.  Suntory Beverage, which accounted for about 60 percent of
the parent’s operating profit in 2011, plans to double its sales
to 2 trillion yen by 2020, it said in December.  The soft drinks company had 992 billion yen of sales in
2012, an increase of 11 percent from a year earlier, while
Suntory Holdings had 1.85 trillion yen.  Nomura Holdings Inc., Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. were selected to manage Suntory Beverage’s listing, the
company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  