-- Supreme Court Must Remember What Deference Means
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-06-17T22:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/supreme-court-must-remember-what-deference-means.html
As the  Supreme Court  nears the end
of its term, the big decisions we are still waiting for concern
race and marriage. These decisions offer the court an
opportunity to exercise an unwonted self-restraint.  In two cases, the court is judging how far governments may
go to rectify past discrimination against blacks and foster
racial diversity. In two other cases, the court is asking
whether governments are unconstitutionally discriminating
against gays and lesbians by treating marriage as the union of a
man and a woman.  Most liberals want the court eventually to rule that all
states and the federal government must recognize same-sex
marriage -- even if legislators and citizens voting on ballot
initiatives disagree. In the race cases, they want the court to
defer to state universities and Congress.  Most conservatives take the opposite view on all of these
cases. They want the court to let legislators and citizens
decide whether governments should recognize same-sex marriages.
But they don’t believe state universities should be able to
provide preferential treatment to minority applicants. And they
don’t think Congress should be allowed to keep treating the
states and localities that were the worst violators of  voting
rights  during the 1960s as though they were still especially
suspect.  What the court should do is show deference in all these
cases, which means siding with the conservatives on marriage and
with the liberals on voting rights.  Constitutional Duty  There are, of course, occasions when the court has the duty
to overturn democratically enacted laws. In those instances, the
court doesn’t disregard the public’s will. Rather it sets aside
the public’s transient will, as expressed in a law, in favor of
its durable will, as expressed in the Constitution. The public’s
ratification of the constitutional provision involved in the
case is what makes the court’s action legitimate.  We can ask a two-part question, then, that serves as a
rough-and-ready guide to when the court should impose a policy.
Did the people, by ratifying the Constitution or an amendment,
mean to adopt that policy? Or did they mean to give the courts
the power to force the adoption of the policy? If the answer to
both questions is no, there should be a strong presumption
against judicial intervention.  Nobody thinks the public meant to recognize same-sex
marriage by ratifying the 14th Amendment, or to give judges the
power to settle the issue. It’s the same with voting rights. The
15th Amendment gives Congress the power to enforce the right to
vote “by appropriate legislation.” Conservatives say some parts
of the Voting Rights Act are no longer appropriate. But nobody
has offered any evidence that the ratifying public meant that
courts should second-guess what Congress found appropriate.  Any defensible account of the proper role of the judiciary
has to distinguish between what a conscientious judge does and
what a conscientious legislator does, with the latter having the
scope to take a wider range of considerations into account when
weighing a law. In both the voting-rights and the marriage case,
though, there is a temptation to erase that difference. A court
that tries to determine whether all the provisions of the Voting
Rights Act are “appropriate” to today’s circumstances is simply
replicating the lawmaker’s task.  In the marriage case, too, the main arguments aired in
court have been about judgments that the Constitution appears to
leave to Congress: What is the purpose of having a public policy
of marriage? And what kind of marriage policy best serves that
purpose? At an earlier stage of one of the cases, a federal
judge even based his ruling partly on his findings about the
psychological effects that different marriage policies have on
adults and children. The public didn’t put answers to these
questions into the Constitution by ratifying the 14th Amendment,
or mean to hand them to judges to decide.  1964 Mandate  And what about the case of preferential-admissions
decisions at state universities? On that one, the court doesn’t
need to decide whether liberals or conservatives should prevail
on any constitutional question. The Civil Rights Act of 1964
mandates that nobody be subject to racial discrimination “under
any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance,”
which covers almost all universities. The court should defer to
that statute, which would seem to bar preferential treatment for
racial minorities.  People who want to change the statute to allow such
treatment have a way forward, as do people who want to see
governments recognize same-sex marriage and those who want the
Voting Rights Act modified. They should all go to the same place
to make their case: the legislature.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist, a senior
editor at National Review and a visiting fellow at the  American
Enterprise Institute .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  