-- Sushi Aid in $1 Trillion U.S. Farm Bill Irks Watchdogs
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-06-18T21:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/sushi-aid-in-1-trillion-u-s-farm-bill-irks-watchdogs.html
(Corrects page count in first paragraph of story published
June 17 because bill text posted online by the House Rules
Committee included hundreds of duplicated pages.)  Tucked deep in the 629-page U.S.
House agriculture policy legislation is an initiative to
guarantee prices for sushi rice. So too is insurance for alfalfa
and a marketing plan for Christmas trees.  Catfish  farmers also get a morsel in the proposal being
taken up this week: profit-margin insurance. The products
represent a tiny fraction of the  $440 billion  U.S. farm economy.
Yet each is slated to receive special treatment -- either
through subsidized insurance, promotional programs or
protections against imports -- in the bill that carries an
estimated 10-year price tag of $939 billion.  “We’re in a golden age of agriculture,” with producer
profits projected at a record  $128.2 billion  this year, Vince
Smith, a professor of agricultural economics at Montana State
University, said at a briefing on Capitol Hill last week. The
House bill “is about as bad a bill as I could think of writing
as an economist,” he said.  The farm bill, which benefits crop-buyers such as  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , grocers including  Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  and
insurers including Wells Fargo & Co. and  Ace Ltd (ACE) , has been
working through Congress for almost two years. The Senate last
week passed a version that would spend $955 billion over 10
years; the House this week is considering a version approved by
its agriculture committee. The current, five-year authorization
of U.S. Department of Agriculture programs passed in 2008 and
was extended last year until Sept. 30.  Koch Brothers  Both the Senate and House versions would reduce payments to
growers of corn, wheat and other crops by eliminating a $5
billion-a-year program of direct subsidies while expanding
subsidized crop insurance. Their different price tags mainly
result from variations in food-stamp spending. The Senate plan
would reduce payments by $4 billion over a decade, about one-fifth the House amount.  The House Rules Committee meet today to  set guidelines  for
amendments and debate on the bill, potentially complicating or
smoothing the path to passage. President  Barack Obama  may veto
the House bill were it to become law, the White House said in a
 statement  today.  “The bill would reduce access to food assistance for
struggling families and their children, does not contain
sufficient commodity and crop insurance reforms, and does not
provide funding for renewable energy, which is an important
source of jobs and economic growth in rural communities across
the country.”  Lobbying Drive  Approval in the House may not be assured, said Tim
Phillips, president of Americans for Prosperity, a budget
watchdog group supported by billionaire energy executives
Charles and  David Koch .  The group is planning to lobby in 15 congressional
districts to change the votes of supporters, including House
Speaker John Boehner, the Ohio Republican who endorsed the bill
last week. The organization, along with Club for Growth, is
planning to include the farm-bill vote on its congressional
scorecard that will rate members of Congress on various issues  “This bill is so bad, it’s so bloated, some things are
beyond redemption,” Phillips said today at a news conference.  Assembling a bill popular enough to pass Congress becomes a
complex process of tradeoffs among different groups. Growers of
cotton, peanuts and other crops common in Southern states
dissatisfied with a bill before the Senate last year got
programs tailored to their needs in this year’s version,
increasing its vote margin in that chamber and potentially
adding votes in the House.  Expensive Policy  Good politics may make for bad, expensive policy, Smith
said.  Crop insurance and price-support plans hold the most risk
for bigger federal spending, Smith said. Along with revenue
guarantees for peanuts and cotton, the bill includes the catfish
provision as well as the consideration of catastrophic-loss
plans for poultry and swine and regular policies for alfalfa and
sugarcane.  Temperate japonica rice used in sushi would be added as a
crop eligible for price supports. The new program is justified
because direct payments to rice farmers would be eliminated in
the bill, said Charley Mathews Jr., who raises 600 acres of the
rice variety near Marysville,  California , about 40 miles north
of  Sacramento .  Delta Region  Programs that may look like largesse in Washington have
practical purposes at the farm level, he said. Federal rice
payments are based on futures traded in  Chicago  for varieties
grown in the Mississippi River Delta region, a very different
market from California’s where most sushi rice is grown, he
said.  Without adequate federal backing, “I don’t get financing
from my bank” for rice that’s the only crop suitable for his
soil, said Mathews, 46. “I get one chance to plant each year,
which isn’t like a factory making widgets. I need to manage my
risk.”  For catfish, higher feed costs have made the industry’s
profitability a concern, said Ben Pentecost, president of the
Catfish Farmers of America, an Indianola, Mississippi-based
trade group. “Catfish farmers, like other livestock producers,
face significant input costs,” Pentecost said in an e-mail. The
proposed program will help catfish farmers reduce their risks,
he said.  Promotion Programs  Other provisions in the farm bill allow commodities to
create so-called  checkoff  programs in which producers of a
commodity are levied a fee to promote a product in campaigns
such as “Beef: It’s What’s for Dinner.” In such programs,
government expenses are minimal because the industry self-finances.  The question, Josh Sewell, a senior policy analyst with
Taxpayers for Common Sense in  Washington , a group that advocates
less federal spending, is whether the government has better
things to do.  “If a private industry wants to put together a program, we
have freedom of association in this country, they can come up
with a program and do it. I don’t know if the government has to
give its attention to  ‘The other white meat,’ ’’ he said,
referring to a pork-industry promotion campaign.  Promotion programs in the House bill include Christmas
trees and natural stone. In the case of stone, a checkoff has
been a goal of the industry since 2012, according to the Marble
Institute of America, which outlines its strategy for government
support on its  website .  ‘Very Transparent’  “If the goal is more consumer advocacy of our great
product, you should utilize the tools you have available,” said
Jim Hieb, chief executive officer of the Marble Institute, a
Cleveland-based trade association that spearheaded the drive for
the stone checkoff. “We’re very transparent about it.”  Lobbying expenses by agriculture interests increased to
$138 million last year from $112 million in 2007, the year
before the last farm bill passed, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group that
tracks spending on lobbying. Agriculture-industry employees
spent $91 million on the 2012 elections, up from $70 million in
2008.  “It’s such a big bill there’s something for everyone,”
said Sewell, of Taxpayers for Common Sense. “I don’t understand
why we have this paternalistic attitude toward ag.”  The Senate bill is S. 954. The House bill is H.R. 1947.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at   jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  