-- Sweden Air Force Targets C-130 Upgrade Decision in 2014
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-06-17T07:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/sweden-air-force-targets-c-130-upgrade-decision-in-2014.html
The Swedish air force plans to
decide whether to upgrade or replace its fleet of eight  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  C-130 transport planes as part of a 10-year
strategic program due to be formalized next year.  Replacement of aging SK60 jets for training pilots also is
starting to gain Swedish military planners’ attention, service
chief Major General Micael Byden told reporters yesterday on the
eve of the Paris Air Show.  Sweden’s military-equipment upgrade decisions in recent
years include a commitment in February to back development of
and buy 60 Gripen E fighters from domestic manufacturer  Saab AB. (SAABB) 
The C-130s are being used in Afghanistan and are set to support
United Nations operations in Mali for four months starting in
October, Byden said.  “We have to do something with our transport fleet,” Lt.
Col. Tommy Petersson, requirements officer for Sweden’s  air
force , said at the press briefing. The current airframe should
last until about 2030 if the systems are modernized, he said.  The trainer program is less well defined, with a target of
having new aircraft in service around 2020, Petersson said.
Sweden wants to set up partnerships with other countries for a
joint modernization plan that would influence the type and
number of aircraft to be ordered.  Helicopter Fleet  Military operations in Afghanistan forced Sweden to quickly
acquire UH-60M Black Hawk helicopters from  United Technologies
Corp. (UTX) ’s Sikorsky unit to meet operational needs in Afghanistan
because the competing NH90 model intended for the role wasn’t
ready. The U.S. helicopters have now reached full operational
status, Byden said.  Development of the NH90 is progressing, albeit slowly,
Byden said. Sweden doesn’t expect to reach full operational
status with the rotorcraft, built by partners including
 Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ’s AgustaWestland unit and Eurocopter SAS of
 European Aeronautics, Defence & Space Co. (EAD) , until 2020, he said.  “We are taking it step by step,” Byden said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in Paris via 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  