-- Swiss Stocks Advance as Investors Await Fed Signals
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-06-17T08:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/swiss-stocks-advance-as-investors-await-fed-signals.html
Stocks in Switzerland  rose,
rebounding from a fourth straight week of losses, as investors
awaited this week’s Federal Reserve meeting for indications on
the duration of stimulus measures.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA climbed 2.2 percent after HSBC
Holdings Plc upgraded the luxury-goods company. Swatch Group AG,
the biggest maker of Swiss watches, gained for a second day.  ABB
Ltd. (ABBN)  increased 3.1 percent after appointing a new chief
executive officer.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  rallied 0.9 percent to 7,704.12 at
10:33 a.m. in Zurich. The benchmark gauge fell 1.9 percent last
week for its longest stretch of losses in 13 months. It has
pared this year’s advance to 13 percent amid speculation the Fed
will start to taper its bond-purchase program. The broader  Swiss
Performance Index (SPI)  also gained 0.9 percent today.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 23 percent greater than the 30-day average, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The Fed will begin a two-day policy meeting tomorrow, with
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke scheduled to speak on June 19. Bernanke
will also deliver his semi-annual monetary policy report to
Congress on July 17-18.  Recent losses in equities may provide opportunities. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. shares, which has fallen 2.5
percent from its May 21 record, rallied an average 16 percent
over two years the last four times the Fed started raising
interest rates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  G-8 Summit  Leaders of the Group of Eight industrial nations meet at  a
two-day summit in Northern Ireland starting today. European
leaders will focus on the benefits of a trade agreement with the
U.S. after the European Union authorized the start of talks.  Richemont advanced 2.2 percent to 84.90 Swiss francs. HSBC
upgraded its recommendation on the shares to overweight,
equivalent of buy, from neutral. The brokerage raised its 12-month price estimate to 104 francs from 82 francs, saying it
expects an increase in sales and earnings for the company’s
Cartier brand.  Swatch climbed 0.9 percent to 538 francs. HSBC analysts led
by Erwan Rambourg wrote in a note that a growth in watch sales
in mainland  China  should resume in October.  ABB gained 3.1 percent to 20.81 francs, the biggest advance
since April 24, as the world’s largest supplier of power grids
appointed Ulrich Spiesshofer as its new CEO. Spiesshofer, who
will replace Joe Hogan in September, is the company’s head of
discrete automation and motion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  