-- Swiss See ‘Progress’ Made in Talks With EU on Corporate Taxes
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-06-17T12:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/swiss-see-progress-made-in-talks-with-eu-on-corporate-taxes.html
Talks between Switzerland and the
European Union on corporate tax rates are progressing, officials
said today.  “It was attested that big progress has been made,” Swiss
Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said in Bern today
after a meeting with EU Tax Commissioner Algirdas Semeta, who
called Switzerland a “close friend of the EU.”  Switzerland has been at odds with the 27-nation bloc over
the preferential tax treatment given to multinationals, and had
until the end of June to offer a solution or face reprisals. The
Swiss government said last month that it would stop
differentiating between foreign and domestic income. Instead, in
a bid to remain attractive to corporations such as  Procter &
Gamble Co . and Trafigura Beheer BV, it will introduce new tax
exemptions and cantonal governments may cut tax rates on
profits.  To make up the tax shortfall, estimated at between 1
billion francs and 3 billion francs ($1.1 billion to $3.3
billion) annually, the Swiss government will offer alternative
incentives, which could include lower taxes on intangible assets
like license fees for patents.  More details will be announced before the end of the year,
Widmer-Schlumpf said today.  The EU is the top destination for Swiss exports. The two
are at odds over a number of matters, including immigration and
banking secrecy that some citizens of EU countries used to evade
taxes.  Data Exchange  Widmer-Schlumpf said last week  Switzerland  would join the
international push against tax dodgers and allow banks to share
clients’ information, provided the practice became a global
standard.  “It is very important that automatic exchange of
information is clearly on the table,” Semeta said. Other
options also were discussed today, according to Widmer-Schlumpf.  Meanwhile, the European Commission last week announced a
plan that would rewrite bank secrecy laws across the 27-nation
bloc by making dividends,  capital gains  and other forms of
financial income to automatic exchange of information among tax
authorities beginning in 2015. The step still must be approved
by  member states .  The auxiliary regime is not used by all of Switzerland’s 26
cantons. Zug, home to commodities trader  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) ,
grants all companies a low rate, with the effective average
corporate  tax rate  amounting to 13 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Bern at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  