-- U.K. Stocks Advance for Third Day Before Fed Meeting
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-06-17T15:46:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/u-k-stocks-advance-for-third-day-before-fed-meeting.html
U.K. stocks  advanced for a third day
as investors awaited a meeting by the  Federal Reserve  this week
for signals on stimulus measures.  Intermediate Capital  Group Plc rose 3.2 percent after
saying it got 191.1 million euros ($255 million) in proceeds
from an investment in Elis, a linen and sanitary equipment
rental company. Vodafone Group Plc climbed 1.5 percent as a
gauge of European telecommunications advanced.  Imagination
Technologies Group Plc (IMG)  slid 3.4 percent after Barclays Plc
downgraded the shares.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  gained 22.23 points, or 0.4 percent, to
6,330.49 at the close of trading in London. The gauge lost 1.6
percent last week amid speculation central banks may reduce
stimulus measures. The broader FTSE All-Share Index also added
0.4 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index increased 0.3
percent.  “Market participants are in the hunt for defensive stocks
ahead of the crucial Fed meeting,” Stephane Ekolo, chief
European strategist at Market Securities in London, wrote in an
e-mail. “Given recent market moves on the downside due to
economic uncertainties, market participants are more income
seekers.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies on the
FTSE 100 today was 17 percent lower than the average of the past
30 days, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Fed Meeting  The Fed will hold its two-day policy meeting this week,
with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  scheduled to speak after the
central bank’s decision on June 19.  The U.S. central bank is buying $85 billion of Treasuries
and mortgage securities a month to spur the economy, and has
kept the target for overnight lending between banks at almost
zero since December 2008.  Group of Eight leaders gather for a two-day summit in
 Northern Ireland  today with trade near the top of the agenda.
European leaders seeking a path to economic growth while curbing
their debt will focus on the benefits of a trade agreement with
the U.S. after the European Union authorized the start of talks.  Intermediate Capital (ICP)  rose 3.2 percent to 439.8 pence. The
London-based  money manager  said it has realized its mezzanine
investment in Elis, with total proceeds of 191.1 million euros,
of which 150 million euros is the repayment of principal.  Telecoms Gain  Vodafone, the world’s second-largest wireless company,
added 1.5 percent to 182.7 pence. A gauge of telecom stocks was
the  best performer  on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Invensys Plc (ISYS) , the engineering company whose takeover
discussions with Emerson Electric Co. broke down last year,
added 1.2 percent to 410.3 pence. Canaccord Genuity Corp. said
the company looks more attractive to potential buyers after the
sale of its rail business.  Carillion Plc (CLLN)  gained 2.7 percent to 262.2 pence. The
construction and services provider said it won a 130 million-pound ($204 million) contract for work on the Oman Convention
and Exhibition Center Project.  Imagination Technologies declined 3.4 percent to 304.7
pence. Barclays cut the U.K. designer of chip technology for
phones and tablets to equal weight, the equivalent of hold, from
overweight, citing downward pricing pressure in the smartphone
market.  ARM Holdings Plc, whose products power Apple Inc.’s iPhone
and iPad, fell 3.7 percent to 830 pence. Numis Securities
downgraded the stock to reduce from hold, citing increased
market share for competitor  Intel Corp .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  