-- U.K. Clashes With EU Over Bid to Boost Market Regulator’s Powers
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-06-17T11:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/u-k-clashes-with-eu-over-bid-to-boost-market-regulator-s-powers.html
The U.K. said that giving a European
Union agency emergency powers to ban some securities trades may
be illegal -- in the country’s latest clash over EU decision-making after failing to derail curbs on banker bonuses.  Britain said it’s concerned that draft EU rules, scheduled
to be endorsed by governments as soon as today, may cede too
many powers to the European Securities and Markets Authority,
according to a document setting out the U.K.’s stance, obtained
by  Bloomberg News .  “The U.K. expresses concern that it is legally uncertain
whether the powers granted to ESMA” are “acceptable,”
according to the U.K. note, which the country has circulated to
other EU nations. They plans may clash with EU rules limiting
the decision-making powers of the bloc’s agencies, the U.K.
said.  Britain has often found itself on the defensive in EU
discussions on financial regulation. The nation, which lacks a
veto on financial laws, was the sole dissenting voice in March
opposing a deal to ban bonuses more than twice fixed pay.  The latest clash concerns plans to revamp the EU’s Markets
in Financial Instruments Directive, or Mifid. While the overhaul
foresees giving broader powers to ESMA, the Paris-based agency
could only use them as a last resort if there was a threat to
the EU’s financial stability, and if national regulators were
unwilling or unable to act.  The U.K. is already locked in a legal challenge against an
EU law from 2012 that gives ESMA the ability to temporarily ban
short selling across the 27-nation EU. Lawyers for Britain urged
the bloc’s top court last week to quash the “wide” and
“unpredictable” powers of an EU agency to ban short selling.  A spokesman for the U.K. government office in Brussels
didn’t have an immediate comment. A spokeswoman for the Irish
government, which holds the rotating presidency of the EU,
declined to comment.  Lawmakers at the European Parliament must also agree on the
draft Mifid law before it can take effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  