-- U.S. June Empire State Manufacturing Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-06-17T12:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/u-s-june-empire-state-manufacturing-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the Empire
State Manufacturing Index.  The June 2013 Empire State Manufacturing Survey indicates
that conditions for  New York  manufacturers improved modestly.
The general business conditions index--the most comprehensive of
the survey’s measures--rose nine points to 7.8. Nevertheless,
most other indicators in the survey fell. The new orders index
slipped six points to -6.7, the shipments index fell twelve
points to -11.8, and the unfilled orders index fell eight points
to -14.5. The prices paid index held steady at 21.0, while the
prices received index rose seven points to 11.3. Labor market
conditions worsened, with the index for number of employees
dropping to zero and the average workweek index retreating ten
points to -11.3. Continuing the trend seen in the past few
months, indexes for the six-month outlook declined, suggesting
that optimism about future conditions was weakening further.  In a series of supplementary survey questions,
manufacturers were asked to look back and assess the short-term
and medium-term effects of Superstorm Sandy on their business.
As in last November’s survey (conducted immediately after the
storm), the vast majority of upstate firms said that they were
essentially unaffected by the storm. However, firms in New York
City, Long Island, and the Lower Hudson Valley reported that it
took an average of more than two weeks after the storm for
business to get back to normal, and more than a third of these
firms said that the storm had adversely affected their overall
business revenue during the seven months since Sandy.  General Business Conditions Index Recovers Some Ground  After dipping into negative territory last month, the
general business conditions index for June recovered some
ground, rising nine points to 7.8--a sign that conditions had
improved modestly. Roughly 29 percent reported that conditions
had gotten better over the month, while 22 percent reported that
conditions had worsened. However, while the general business
conditions index was positive and higher than last month, many
of the survey’s other indicators were negative and noticeably
weaker. The new orders index fell six points to -6.7, and the
shipments index fell twelve points to -11.8. The unfilled orders
index dropped eight points to -14.5, and the delivery time index
declined three points to -6.5. The inventories index fell three
points to -11.3, extending the decline in inventories to a
fourth consecutive month.  Labor Market Conditions Soften  The prices paid index was little changed at 21.0, pointing
to a steady level of input price increases over the month. The
prices received index climbed seven points to 11.3, indicating
that selling price increases had picked up. Labor market
conditions were weak: the index for number of employees fell six
points to zero, indicating that employment levels were flat, and
the average workweek index declined ten points to -11.3, a sign
that hours worked fell modestly.  Six-Month Outlook Continues to Weaken  Hewing to the pattern of the past few months, indexes for
the six-month outlook declined, suggesting that optimism about
future conditions continued to wane. The future general business
conditions index inched down to 25.0, the future new orders
index fell nine points to 19.8, and the future shipments index
fell five points to 20.2. The future prices paid index shot up
sixteen points to 45.2, indicating that input price increases
were expected to accelerate, while the future prices received
index rose three points to 17.7. The index for expected number
of employees retreated to 1.6, and the future average workweek
index declined eleven points to -9.7. The capital expenditures
index fell steeply, dropping twenty points to 3.2, and the
technology spending index moved into negative territory for the
first time since 2009, declining fifteen points to -3.2.  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of New York 