-- U.S. to Buy Domestic Sugar to Ease Glut After Prices Plunged
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z   a n d   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-06-17T18:17:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/u-s-to-buy-domestic-sugar-to-ease-glut-after-prices-plunged-1-.html
The  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
plans to spend about $38 million to buy domestic sugar in a bid
to ease a glut that sent prices plunging this month to a four-year low.  The surplus will be reduced by 300,000 short tons (272,155
metric tons) as the government buys sugar and then gives it to
U.S. refiners in exchange for credits normally used to import
cheaper raw sugar from overseas, the USDA said today in an e-mailed  statement . The refined sugar would then be exported, the
agency said.  Record production from cane and beet growers, who are
supported by government restrictions on imported sugar, and
duty-free supplies from  Mexico  left the biggest inventories in
more than a decade and sent domestic prices tumbling 34 percent
in the year ended June 14. The drop in value threatened to force
growers to forfeit $110 million to $320 million of sugar to the
USDA to avoid defaults on government loans.  “Most traders believe that there would’ve been some
defaults in the fourth quarter without pre-emptive action from
the USDA,” James Cassidy, head of the sugar trading desk at
Newedge Group in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “This
won’t be enough to remove all excess supply, but it’s a start.”  Domestic-sugar futures for September delivery rose 2.4
percent to 19.35 cents a pound on June 14 on ICE Futures U.S. in
New York. Prices reached 18.85 cents on June 11, the lowest for
a most-active contract since March 2009. Raw sugar for October
delivery, reflecting world prices, rallied 3.4 percent to 17.09
cents a pound on June 14. The contract was up 0.5 percent at
1:36 p.m.  Cheaper Alternative  “Today’s notice is estimated to cost approximately two-thirds less than not taking action to prevent forfeitures” on
crop loans, Brian K. Mabry, a USDA spokesman, said in an e-mail.
“USDA will continue to monitor market responses and determine
if additional action is necessary.”  The U.S. limits sugar imports and sets prices for about
5,000 growers, raising consumer costs by $3.5 billion a year,
according to an Iowa State University study. Because it helps
farmers by setting artificially higher prices rather than with
direct payments,  government spending  is minimal.  While sugar is the only major agricultural commodity grown
in the U.S. in which the government actively manages imports,
Mexican product can access the country without restrictions
under the Nafta free trade agreement. Mexico’s production will
be a record in the year ending Sept. 30, the USDA estimates.  Sugar Loans  Under the U.S. sugar program, processors can take out loans
from the government, pledging the sweetener as collateral.
Borrowers are guaranteed a minimum of 20.9 cents a pound for
unrefined sugar. If it drops below that level, processors who
get the credits can repay their debt by selling the sugar to the
USDA by the end of the market year, which coincides with the
fiscal year ending Sept. 30. Default notices could come as early
as Aug. 1.  While “this might provide some relief to the domestic
sugar glut, the market has been anticipating something like this
for some time,” Sterling Smith, a futures specialist at
Citigroup Inc. in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “It’s
already baked in the cake.”  Production in the 12 months that end Sept. 30 will jump 6.2
percent to a record 9.015 million tons, the USDA said in a June
12 report. Global production will exceed demand for a third year
in row in the 12 months started Oct. 1, according to the London-based International Sugar Organization.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  