-- U.S.-EU Talks on ‘Biggest Trade Deal in History’ Start in July
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-06-17T15:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/u-s-eu-talks-on-biggest-trade-deal-in-history-start-in-july.html
Talks on a trade deal between the
U.S. and the European Union, which could be the biggest
bilateral deal ever, will begin in  Washington  next month.  “We intend to move forward fast,” European Commission
President Jose Barroso told reporters today at the start of the
Group of Eight summit in Lough Erne, Northern Ireland. He was
standing alongside President  Barack Obama , EU President Herman Van Rompuy and their host, U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron.  “We’re talking about what could be the biggest bilateral
trade deal in history, which would have an impact bigger than
all the other trade deals put together,” Cameron said. Both
sides already have goods and services trade valued at $2 billion
a day.  For European nations held back by the three-year-old debt
crisis, which has sent euro-area unemployment to a record and
helped push the U.K. into a double-dip recession, a trade deal
offers one way of spurring growth without increasing debt. A
deal may take two years to put together.  The European Commission estimates an agreement could
generate annual economic benefits of 119 billion euros ($159
billion) for Europe and $126 billion (95 billion euros) to the
U.S.  EU negotiations over the last few weeks have exposed
internal differences that may end up threatening a deal. The
French government vowed to wield its veto power unless
audiovisual policies were fully excluded from the commission’s
mandate, saying culture can’t be treated as a commercial item.  France Pressed  The commission and most EU nations including the U.K. and
 Germany  opposed that stance and pressed  France  to show
flexibility. They proposed to fix so-called “red lines” for
the talks to ensure European policies to promote cultural works
wouldn’t be jeopardized, while allowing some possible
concessions to the U.S. so the EU would have greater leverage
over other matters, such as American public procurement.  EU ministers carved the audiovisual industry out of the
mandate to win French support, while leaving the commission the
right to request permission to negotiate on this issue later.  Other potential areas of discord are public procurement,
where so-called Buy America rules represent barriers for Europe,
and agriculture, including genetically modified foods that the
EU regards more skeptically than the U.S.  The idea for the agreement “has been warmly received in
the United States,” Obama said. Reaching a deal “is going to
be a priority of mine and my administration.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in Enniskillen, Northern Ireland at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Enniskillen, Northern Ireland at   mdorning@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  