-- Huaan’s China Gold ETF Seeks $400 Million After Bullion Slumps
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-17T04:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/huaan-s-china-gold-etf-seeks-400-million-after-bullion-slumps.html
Huaan Asset Management Co. aims to
attract as much as $400 million in initial funding for one of
 China ’s first two gold exchange-traded funds as a drop in prices
attracts buyers in the second-biggest consumer of bullion.  The product, to be listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange,
will track the performance of  spot contracts  on the city’s gold
bourse, Xu Yiyi, the fund manager who will run the ETF, said in
a telephone interview. Shanghai-based Huaan has yet to set a
date to market the fund to investors, he said.  Gold sank into a bear market in April, after rallying for
12 years, amid bets the Federal Reserve may taper stimulus.
While the rout hurt investors including hedge fund manager John
Paulson and  withdrawals  from exchange-traded products set a
record pace this year, many buyers in China viewed the slump as
chance to stock up on jewelry, coins and bars.  “Gold hasn’t lost its appeal as a store of value in
China,” Xu said on June 13 from  Shanghai . “Investors here
usually like to buy on dips, so a decline in the bullion prices
this year should work in our favor.”  Gold for immediate delivery slid as much as 31 percent from
a record $1,921.15 an ounce in September 2011 through April 16.
Prices are down 17 percent this year to $1,391.22 at 11:13 a.m.
in Shanghai. Gold of 99.99 percent purity on the Shanghai Gold
Exchange traded at 277.39 yuan a gram ($1,408 an ounce).  Assets in global exchange-traded products backed by bullion
fell 20 percent this year as some investors lost faith in the
metal as store of value. Holdings in SPDR Gold Trust, the
world’s largest bullion ETF, fell to 1,003.5 tons as of last
week, the lowest since 2009.  Regulatory Approval  Huaan and Guotai Asset Management Co. this month received
the China Securities Regulatory Commission’s permission to start
domestic ETPs backed by gold, which will be denominated in  yuan .  “Gold-backed ETFs have been a huge success around the
world since their introduction 10 years ago,” Albert Cheng, a
managing director for the Far East at the World Gold Council,
said in an e-mail on June 13. “Anything which makes it easier
to access gold as part of a balanced investment and savings
portfolio is a positive step.”  Huaan, which had considered starting a gold ETF for four
years, ran into regulatory difficulty because of a rule
prohibiting funds investing directly in physical commodities, Xu
said. The company overcame this by linking the fund to contracts
on the Shanghai Gold Exchange rather than bullion sitting in a
vault, he said.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  will be the custodian bank
for the ETF, with responsibility for ensuring that  spot gold
contracts  are in place to back the fund, according to Xu.  Investors in Huaan’s gold ETF will be able to convert
contracts into bullion through the Shanghai Gold Exchange under
the framework of the gold bourse, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  