-- Hungarian Shares Dive Most in 2 Months on Taxes: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-06-17T16:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/hungarian-shares-drop-on-proposal-to-raise-taxes-budapest-mover.html
OTP Bank Nyrt. and Magyar Telekom
Nyrt. led the biggest fall in  Hungary ’s benchmark index in
almost two months after the government proposed raising taxes on
financial transactions, telecommunications and mining.  Shares in OTP, Hungary’s largest lender, slid 1.5 percent
to 4,873 forint. Magyar Telekom, the Hungarian unit of  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) , declined 4.7 percent to 343 forint by the close in
Budapest, the steepest drop since May 8. The BUX  index  lost 1.3
percent to 19,276.74, slipping the most since April 22.  The tax-increase measures are needed to ensure Hungary
continues to meet its budget deficit goals stipulated by the
European Union, Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga  told reporters
today. Last month, the European Commission recommended releasing
Hungary from a budget monitoring process that’s been in place
since the country joined the bloc in 2004 as Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban  cut the deficit to below the EU’s 3 percent of
gross domestic product limit.  “The market was caught by surprise that a further
austerity package was needed even after the European Commission
recommendation to lift the excessive deficit procedure against
Hungary,”  Akos Kuti , Budapest-based head of research at broker
Equilor Befektetesi Zrt., wrote in an e-mailed report.  The forint appreciated 0.2 percent to 290.25 per euro.  Orban cut the budget shortfall by levying special taxes on
industries including banking, telecommunications and energy.  Subdued Inflation  The Cabinet plans to increase a tax on financial
transactions such as withdrawals from automated teller machines
and bank transfers and a separate levy on phone calls and  text
messages , Varga said. The government needs additional revenue
sources as inflation has fallen to the lowest level since 1974,
he said.  Banks will also be required to make a payment equivalent to
7 percent of loans that the central government transfered to its
books from debt-laden municipalities in December, according to a
draft bill posted on Parliament’s website today.  “That is like a one-off special tax which may weigh
significantly on the banking sector,” the Budapest-based broker
unit of  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  wrote in an e-mailed report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  