-- Turkish Unions March to Protest Police Crackdown in Istanbul
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2013-06-17T14:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/turkish-strikers-march-amid-threat-of-renewed-police-crackdown.html
Thousands of Turkish workers went on
strike and marched in Istanbul and Ankara in support of
protesters, as political turmoil in  Turkey  entered its third
week after a police crackdown.  Union members gathered in Kizilay Square in the capital
today after Interior Minister Muammer Guler said no “illegal”
demonstration would be allowed. The marchers were blocked by
armored police vehicles with water cannons, though there was no
immediate confrontation and the rally broke up peacefully
according to the official Anatolia news agency. In Istanbul, the
strikers gathered near Taksim Square and their route there was
cordoned off by police, also without any initial clashes.  Istanbul, Turkey’s biggest city and commercial capital, saw
some of the worst violence yesterday since the protests began on
May 31, as police clashed with demonstrators in several
districts after driving them out of Taksim the previous day.
Guler said 393 people were detained yesterday. Prime Minister
Recep Tayyip Erdogan rallied his own supporters in an Istanbul
suburb and told a crowd of hundreds of thousands that those
behind the unrest will be made to pay.  ‘Democratic Reaction’  The protest movement has broadened from an environmentalist
rejection of proposals to build in Istanbul’s Gezi Park into a
wider movement targeting Erdogan’s Islamist-rooted government
for what demonstrators say is its increasingly authoritarian
approach to dissenting views and different lifestyles. His
response, a security crackdown, has drawn condemnation from the
U.S. and European Union and sent Turkish financial markets
reeling.  Stocks (XU100)  and bonds extended losses today.  Labor groups representing about 800,000 workers called
today’s action to protest the government’s “aggressive”
policies.  Kani Beko, head of the Disk trade union confederation, said
in Istanbul today that workers gathered to call for an end to
“oppression and persecution.” He said if the government
“doesn’t stop its war against the people, we will continue to
take our democratic reaction to the squares.”  Guler warned that civil servants and workers taking part in
illegal demonstrations “will have to accept legal
consequences” for their actions. The Istanbul governor’s office
said calls for a rally in Taksim are illegal and “won’t be
tolerated.”  ‘Substantial’ Risk  “The risk of an escalation of the crisis, which could pave
the way for more clashes and unrest, is now substantial,”
 Wolfango Piccoli , an analyst at political-risk assessor Teneo
Intelligence in  London , said in an e-mailed report. “Despite
the government’s heavy-handed approach, there is little prospect
of an imminent end to the protests.”  Guler said police are also pursuing people who have
disseminated false information about the protests on social
media, and the government may introduce legal restrictions on
such Internet activity.  Erdogan has won three elections with a growing share of the
vote, reaching 50 percent in 2011. Many protesters say that the
prime minister has used his majority to override their concerns.
As well as police violence, they cite curbs on alcohol and
increased attention to religion at schools.  Erdogan has rejected the charge, saying he governs on
behalf of all Turks, and accuses opposition parties of backing
the protests because they couldn’t beat him at the ballot box.
He has urged supporters to answer the demonstrators by
delivering him an election win in local polls due in March.  ‘Will of Nation’  At his rallies in Istanbul yesterday and Ankara the
previous day, he said the huge crowds he drew were a better
representation of Turkey than the protesters in Istanbul and
other cities.  “We won’t let these people hijack the will of the
nation,” Erdogan told supporters in Istanbul, many brought by
buses that stretched back kilometers along the Marmara Sea
coastline where they parked.  The benchmark  stock index  fell 1.4 percent at the close in
Istanbul, taking its loss this month to 8.3 percent. Yields on
two-year  lira bonds  rose 3 basis points to 6.24 percent. The
lira fell 0.4 percent against the dollar.  Cancellations of tourist bookings to Istanbul have reached
50 percent, endangering the government’s target this year of 32
million tourists and $25 billion in revenue, Hurriyet said today
citing Timur Bayindir, head of the Turkish Hoteliers
Association. In a survey of chief executives by Ekonomist
magazine, almost 60 percent said business had suffered.  Merkel Criticism  At least four people have been killed during protests. The
Turkish Medical Association said more than 11,000 people were
exposed to tear gas in the week through June 15.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel, asked in an interview with
RTL television today about the violence in the context of
Turkey’s EU membership bid, said that “what’s happening in
Turkey at the moment doesn’t conform to our understanding of
freedom to gather and free speech.”  Erdogan says he wants to reconstruct Ottoman-era barracks
near Gezi Park. An Istanbul court order on June 1 stopped
construction of a sidewalk around the park. Erdogan said on June
14 that the plan will be put on hold until courts rule, and will
then be submitted to a public vote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net ;
Firat Kayakiran in Istanbul at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  