-- Venezuela’s Rating Cut by S&P Amid Post-Chavez Polarization
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-06-17T23:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/venezuela-s-debt-rating-cut-by-s-p-amid-post-chavez-polarization.html
Venezuela’s credit rating was cut by
Standard & Poor’s, which cited concern that division within
President Nicolas Maduro’s administration may impair the
government’s ability to shore up a sputtering economy.  S&P lowered the rating to B, five levels below investment
grade, and gave it a negative outlook. The rating, in line with
countries including Ecuador and  Cameroon , is the oil-producing
country’s lowest since 2005. Yields on government bonds jumped
the most since April 16, two days after Maduro was elected.  Maduro, the handpicked successor of the lateHugo Chavez,
who died of cancer in March, is struggling to contain soaring
inflation and rising shortages of everything from toilet paper
to chicken while economic growth slumps. Annual inflation soared
to 35 percent in May, the highest since at least 2008.  “Political polarization and internal challenges within the
Venezuelan government threaten to weaken the implementation of
economic policies at a time of worsening economic conditions
with decelerating GDP growth, increasing inflation and growing
pressures on external liquidity,” S&P said in a statement.  PDVSA Cut  The ratings agency also cut its corporate rating on state
oil company Petroleos de  Venezuela  SA, or PDVSA, to B from B+.  “The negative outlook on PDVSA mirrors that on the
sovereign, reflecting its government-related entity status,”
S&P said today.  Yields on the government’s benchmark dollar bonds due 2027
surged 45 basis points, or 0.45 percentage point, to 11.40
percent at 5:04 p.m. in New York. Yields had fallen to as low as
9.01 percent in the run-up to Maduro’s election.  “There is a deterioration in the macroeconomic, political
and social environments in Venezuela,” Alberto Ramos, an
analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said today in a telephone
interview from New York.  S&P last cut Venezuelan debt in August 2011, citing
“changing and arbitrary laws” and Chavez’s declining health.
Moody’s Investors Service rates Venezuela B2, the equivalent to
S&P’s B rating.  Dollar Auctions  The government, which has limited Venezuelans’ access to
dollars with currency controls over the past decade, has held
only one auction of dollars since introducing a new exchange
system in March, a month after it devalued the currency 32
percent. That has left companies short of the dollars they need
for imports, forcing them to turn to the black market, where the
dollar goes for 30 bolivars, compared with the government-sanctioned official rate of 6.3.  Venezuela Finance Minister Nelson Merentes said on June 12
that he had delayed an investor roadshow intended to reduce the
country’s perceived risk until July because of market
conditions. Merentes and planning minister Jorge Giordani were
in  Rome  today with Maduro, who held talks with Pope Francis,
according to images broadcast on state television.  The economy grew 0.7 percent in the first quarter after
expanding 5.6 percent expansion 2012.  “While the government clearly recognizes the need to
respond to worsening economic conditions, it has announced few
concrete measures,” Eurasia Group analysts  Daniel Kerner  and
Risa Grais-Targo said in a June 10 note to clients. “Absent
coherent policy preferences and with diverse preferences among
the most powerful cabinet members, economic policymaking looks
set to remain reactionary and erratic.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  