-- Videgaray Says Mexico’s Growth to Quicken as Spending Rises
-- B y   A d r i a n a   A r a i   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-06-17T22:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/videgaray-says-mexico-s-growth-to-quicken-as-spending-increases.html
Mexico ’s economic growth will
quicken as the government increases spending in the second half
of the year, Finance Minister Luis Videgaray said.  The economy grew at the slowest pace in more than three
years in the first quarter after spending was contained after a
new government took over in December, Videgaray said in an
interview in  London . President Enrique Pena Nieto took office on
Dec. 1.  Investor confidence in Mexico has waned after the economy
expanded less than analysts expected in the first quarter and
government plans to overhaul the state-controlled oil industry
were held up. Capital flows also have slowed on signs the U.S.
 Federal Reserve  could scale back asset purchases as economic
growth strengthens.  “We expect much more accelerated spending in the second
semester,” Videgaray said. “The budget is there and the
revenue is there.”  Mexico’s government spending  fell  about 7 percent in real
terms to 1.16 trillion pesos, or $90 billion, in the first four
months of 2013 compared to the year-earlier period, according to
data from the central bank.  Mexico’s government reduced its forecast for growth this
year to 3.1 percent from 3.5 percent last month after the
economy grew 0.8 percent in the first quarter, the slowest pace
since the 2009 recession. Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB, Mexico’s
third-largest bank, cut its estimate for 2013 to 2.7 percent
from 3 percent today.  Protection Cost  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps has risen 43 basis points
to 127 basis points in the past month, the most since 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s more than
 Brazil ’s 33-point rise.  The peso’s one-month historical volatility, a measure of
the magnitude of the currency’s fluctuations during the period,
rose to 14 percent, the highest on a closing basis in 17 months,
and the most among the region’s major currencies. The peso
weakened today 1.0 percent to 12.8290 per dollar.  Videgaray said markets have already priced in a “good
part” of the effect that the scaling back of so-called
quantitative easing will have on Mexico.  The Federal Reserve’s unwinding of asset purchases “is
something to be expected and we should be able to handle it in
an orderly manner,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adriana Arai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  