-- Vietnam’s Central Bank Says It Intervened to Slow Dong Decline
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-17T10:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/vietnam-s-central-bank-says-it-intervened-to-slow-dong-decline.html
The  State Bank of Vietnam  said it
intervened “with reasonable volume” in the foreign-exchange
market to slow a slide in the dong fueled by increasing dollar
demand from importers.  For the rest of 2013, the monetary authority will closely
watch currency movements as well as banks’ foreign-exchange
levels in order to get into the market in a timely manner and
“flexibly manage money supply channels to control  cash flow ,”
it said in a statement on its website today. The central bank
said it will try to help the government meet its inflation and
economic growth targets.  Vietnam joined central banks in Indonesia and India in
intervening in money markets in the past week to support their
currencies as speculation the  Federal Reserve  will rein in
monetary stimulus curbed demand for emerging-market assets. The
Asia Dollar Index, which tracks Asia’s 10 most-used
currencies excluding the yen, fell in five of the last six
weeks.  “The pressure on the dong is in line with what we’re
seeing in other countries,”  Thomas Harr , Singapore-based head
of local markets strategy, East, at Standard Chartered Plc, said
by phone. “There are global concerns about investors
withdrawing money from Asia. It’s a combination of local and
global factors.”  He flagged Vietnam’s trade deficit, which widened for a
fourth month in May to $1.2 billion from $936 million in April
and $546 million in March, as an issue as well.  Sliding Currency  The dong, which has lost about 0.5 percent since April 30,
weakened 0.1 percent today to 21,033 per dollar as of 5:00 p.m.
in Hanoi, according to prices from banks compiled by Bloomberg.
The central bank reiterated it aims to limit the dong’s
fluctuation to 3 percent this year. It said it will try to boost
credit growth to 12 percent by the end of 2013 from 2.98 percent
in the five months through May.  Foreign investors have sold more Vietnam shares than they
bought this month, pulling out a  net  $24.2 million, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark  VN Index (VNINDEX)  of stocks
slid to a three-week low, slipping 2.1 percent today in  Ho Chi
Minh City .  Investors pulled $2.1 billion from Asia in the week to June
12, the most since August 2011, Citigroup Inc. analyst  Markus
Rosgen  wrote in a June 14 report, citing EPFR Global.  Vietnam government bonds fell for the seventh day, with the
five-year yield rising 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage
point, to 7.80 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the biggest jump since July 13, 2012.  Monetary Policy  The government is aiming for economic growth of 5.5 percent
in 2013, in what would be its first period of three straight
years of growth below 6 percent since 1988, according to
 International Monetary Fund  data. The  State Bank  of Vietnam has
cut  interest rates  eight times since the start of 2012 as part
of efforts to spur expansion.  “We are not looking for a devaluation, but we have to
monitor it,”  Standard Chartered ’s Harr said. “Any concerns
they’ve loosened monetary policy too much may weigh on the
currency,”  Vietnam faces a “great risk” of macroeconomic
instability, Deputy Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc told
lawmakers on May 20, as credit growth trails behind targets
while banks work to reduce high levels of bad debt that have
hampered  expansion .  The economy expanded 5.03 percent last year, the slowest
pace since 1999, and the International Monetary Fund in April
 cut  its 2013 growth forecast for the country to 5.2 percent from
5.8 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  