-- Wells Fargo Faces New Minnesota Securities-Lending Trial
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B e t h   H a w k i n s
-- 2013-06-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/wells-fargo-faces-new-minnesota-securities-lending-trial.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  faces a second
Minnesota trial over claims by institutional investors that the
bank marketed a risky securities-lending program as safe and
cost them millions of dollars in losses.  The case is one of  at least five  in Minnesota against Wells
Fargo over its securities lending. Wells Fargo lost the first to
go to trial in 2010, when a state court jury awarded  Minnesota
Workers’ Compensation Reinsurance Association  and three
charitable foundations about $30 million, a judgment that was
upheld on appeal.  Wells Fargo is scheduled for a third trial on the same
claims from different plaintiffs in September, brought as a
class action, or group lawsuit on behalf of about 100
institutional investors. Two other cases are also pending in
federal court, including one by  Minnesota  Life Insurance Co.
seeking $40 million in damages.  The trial set to begin today before U.S. District Judge
Donovan W. Frank in St. Paul covers allegations from Blue Cross
Blue Shield of Minnesota, the El Paso County Retirement Plan and
10 other nonprofit groups seeking unspecified millions of
dollars in losses plus punitive damages. The suits have been
brought in Minnesota, where the Wells Fargo securities-lending
program was located.  Wells Fargo engaged in “systematic, intentional and
unlawful conduct -- including breaches of fiduciary duty,
breaches of contract, and fraud -- in a multibillion-dollar
securities-lending program,” lawyers for the plaintiffs said in
the complaint.  Improper, Risky  The alleged misconduct included “a pattern of improper
investments in risky securities,” failure to disclose material
information about the investments to the plaintiffs, and a
coverup of wrongful actions, the lawyers said. They said Wells
Fargo continued to pursue the investments as they began to
falter.  “Wells Fargo was a custodian, an agent, a safekeeper of
these securities they were going to loan out,” Mike Ciresi, a
lawyer for the plaintiffs, said at a June 5 pretrial hearing.
“Wells Fargo shouldn’t have lost any money in this program, and
they didn’t have to.”  Wells Fargo has denied the claims, blaming any losses on
the financial crisis.  “The allegations made by the plaintiffs are without
merit,” Laura Fay, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco-based
bank, said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Suitable’ Investments  “The investments made by Wells Fargo on behalf of clients
in the securities-lending program were in accordance with
investment guidelines and were highly rated and suitable at the
time of purchase,” she said.  “Wells Fargo was focused at all times on serving our
clients’ interests and we worked very hard and responsibly to
achieve the best results for all of the participants in the
securities-lending program during very difficult economic
conditions,” Fay said.  The company sold the majority of its securities-lending
program to Citigroup Inc. in 2011, Fay said. Wells Fargo remains
liable for any damages sought in the lawsuits, she said.  Wells Fargo marketed its securities-lending program to its
institutional investor clients “as a way to earn marginally
higher returns on securities they already owned,” lawyers for
Blue Cross said in the complaint.  ‘Free Money’  Securities lending has been traditionally viewed by pension
funds and foundations as a low-risk investment.  “At least one Wells Fargo executive described the program
as ‘free money’ and understood that ‘most clients’ felt the SLP
program was risk free,” U.S. Magistrate Judge Jeanne J. Graham
in  St. Paul  said in an August 2012 order allowing the
plaintiffs the right to pursue punitive damages.  Under the program, Wells Fargo held its clients’ securities
in custodial accounts and would make temporary loans of these
securities to brokers. The brokers would use these securities to
support their trading activities, such as short sales and option
contracts. The clients “had the right to recall their loaned
securities at any time, for any reason,” according to the
complaint.  The brokers borrowing the securities posted collateral,
primarily cash. “Wells Fargo promised to invest the cash in
conservative investments, which Wells Fargo repeatedly
represented would be ‘high-grade money market instruments’ where
the ‘prime considerations’ would be ‘safety of principal and
liquidity,’” Blue Cross lawyers said in court papers filed
Sept. 11.  SIVs, Mortgages  Wells Fargo, they claim, “heavily invested” the
collateral in risky or highly illiquid securities, such as
structured investment vehicles and mortgage-backed assets.
Instead of gaining a small profit, the investors lost money,
according to the lawsuit.  “Wells Fargo continued its flawed investment strategy even
after it knew, or reasonably should have known, that such
investments were unsafe and illiquid,” the lawyers said in the
September complaint.  They also claim that Wells Fargo initially concealed the
losses from them and refused to return the borrowed securities
when requested. The institutions weren’t able to get the
securities back unless they paid back the difference between the
cost of the collateral and its value at the time exit was
requested, the plaintiffs said. More favored Wells Fargo clients
were allowed out without paying, they said.  Rate Spread  The lawsuit particularly targets Wells Fargo’s investments
in  structured investment vehicles . SIVs borrowed money by
issuing short-term securities, usually commercial paper at low
 interest rates , the lawyers said. “The SIVs then lent money by
buying long-term assets at higher interest rates,” earning a
profit off the spread between the rates, the lawyers said.  “Because SIVs borrowed short-term but invested long term,
their debt frequently became due before the underlying assets
matured,” according to the lawsuit. “By their very nature SIVs
were highly vulnerable and unsustainable in certain economic
conditions.”  Wells Fargo executives recognized this, the lawyers contend
in the complaint, citing published comments from Chief Executive
Officer  John Stumpf  and former Chairman Richard Kovacevich.  “What advantage, what purpose does an SIV serve other than
putting something off balance sheet and keeping it from your
investors and taking enormous risks?” Stumpf said in a 2008
interview, according to the Blue Cross lawyers.  Cheyne, Stanfield  Two of the SIVs in which Wells Fargo had heavily invested,
Cheyne Finance SIV and the Stanfield Victoria SIV, went into
default and subsequently into receivership, the plaintiffs’
lawyers said.  While the bank warned of deterioration in the subprime
sector by December 2006, the securities-lending program
continued these investments, the plaintiffs claim. “In January
2007, instead of heeding the warning, the SLP Portfolio Manager
advised: ‘To get bang in this econ environ -- take more risk,’”
according to the complaint.  Wells Fargo has argued in court papers that the plaintiffs’
claims are barred “under the doctrine of assumption of the
risk,” according to a Sept. 25 filing by the bank.  The investors have “no actionable claim for damages”
because any alleged losses “were offset, in whole or in part,
by profits in their accounts with Wells Fargo and profits
arising from purchases of other fixed income instruments that
would be considered ‘unsuitable’ according to the plaintiffs’
allegations,” company lawyers said in the filing.  The plaintiffs were sophisticated investors, Wells Fargo
attorney Bart Williams said at the June 5 hearing. In the
contracts with the bank subscribing in the program, the
investors agreed they had conducted independent investigations
and “assured themselves they can survive the loss of the entire
investment,” he said.  The case is Blue Cross Blue Shield of Minnesota v. Wells
Fargo Bank, 11-cv-02529, U.S. District Court, District of
Minnesota (St. Paul).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Hawkins in Minneapolis at  hawkins@visi.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  