-- Won Recovers From Near Two-Month Low on Korea Stabilizing Talk
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-06-17T07:41:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/won-near-two-month-low-as-foreigners-sell-shares-bonds-advance.html
The won recovered from near a two-month low after the government said it has several market-stabilizing measures ready to protect against external shocks.  These include steps against a faster-than-expected U.S.
exit from its quantitative easing policies, Finance Minister
Hyun Oh Seok said in parliament. Overseas investors sold more
local shares than they bought for a seventh day, adding to $3.12
billion of net sales this month through June 14, exchange data
show. Almost $3 trillion has been erased from global markets
since Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said May 22 U.S.
policy makers could curb stimulus should the job market improve.  “Foreign investors sold Korean shares today, as they did
last week, which weakened the won,” said Choi Sung Hyun, a
currency trader at  Woori Bank  in  Seoul . “Hyun’s comment about
the government preparing measures to protect market volatility
may have supported the won at the end.”  The won fell as much as 0.3 percent before closing
unchanged on the day at 1,126.25 per dollar, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 1,137.75 on June 11, the
weakest level since April 10.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, held at 10.41
percent, the data show. It rose 89 basis points, or 0.89
percentage point, last week.  Fed Meeting  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against
currencies of six major U.S. trade partners, rose for the first
time in six days before the  Federal Open Market Committee  starts
a two-day policy meeting tomorrow amid speculation the central
bank will taper bond purchases that have fueled demand for
emerging-market assets.  South Korea  must boost its ability to prevent and cope with
any crisis stemming from policy changes in the U.S. and other
advanced economies, the central bank said in a report submitted
to parliament today.  The government will try to ease volatility in the  currency
market  if “herd behavior” causes drastic swings, the Finance
Ministry said in a report to parliament today. The government
will apply in a “flexible manner” measures currently in place,
including a levy on banks’ foreign-currency debt and caps on
their forward positions.  Asia’s fourth-largest economy may expand in a mid- to high
2 percent range this year, Hyun said in parliament. The
government cut its 2013 gross domestic product forecast to 2.3
percent from 3 percent on March 29, before it unveiled a $15
billion supplementary budget in April to spur growth.  The yield on the 2.75 percent sovereign bonds due March
2018 rose two basis points to 3 percent, prices from Korea
Exchange Inc. show. South Korea sold 2 trillion won of 10-year
 government bonds  at 3.190 percent, the  Finance Ministry  said on
its website today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  