-- WTI Crude Trades Near Four-Month High on U.S. Stockpiles
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2013-06-18T12:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/wti-trades-near-four-month-high-as-u-s-stockpiles-seen-falling.html
West Texas Intermediate crude traded
near the highest price in more than four months before a
government report that will probably show U.S. stockpiles
declined as refinery processing increased.  Futures were little changed in  New York  after slipping 8
cents yesterday from the highest settlement since January. U.S.
crude supplies probably fell by  500,000 barrels  last week,
according to a Bloomberg survey before tomorrow’s report from
the Energy Information Administration. Refineries typically
boost output this time of year to meet summer demand for motor
fuel. Syrian President Bashar al-Assad warned  Europe  will “pay
the price” for arming rebels trying to topple him.  “It will be supportive for WTI at least if U.S. crude
stocks fall,” said Bjarne Schieldrop, chief commodity analyst
in Oslo for Stockholm-based bank SEB AB. “It will draw
attention to the fact that the U.S. is both on a positive path
and in a seasonally strong oil demand period of the year.”  WTI for July delivery was at $98.11 a barrel, up 34 cents,
in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at
1:34 p.m.  London  time. The volume of all futures traded was 8
percent below the 100-day average. The contract rose 1.2 percent
to $97.85 on June 14, the highest close since Jan. 30. WTI
traded yesterday as high as $98.74, the most since Sept. 17.  Fuel Supplies  Brent for August settlement rose 43 cents to $105.90 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
contract yesterday dropped 46 cents to $105.47. The European
benchmark grade was at a premium of $7.54 to WTI futures. The
spread was $7.44 yesterday, the narrowest based on closing
prices since January 2011.  U.S. gasoline inventories probably climbed by 500,000
barrels in the week ended June 14, according to the median
estimate of 10 analysts that Bloomberg surveyed before the EIA
report. Distillate-fuel supplies, including heating oil and
diesel, gained  925,000 barrels , the survey shows.  Refineries probably operated at 88 percent of capacity, up
0.5 percentage points from the prior week, the Bloomberg survey
shows. The U.S. Memorial Day holiday on May 27 marked the start
of the nation’s peak driving period.  The  American Petroleum Institute  in  Washington  is scheduled
to release separate data today. The industry group collects the
information on a voluntary basis from operators of refineries,
bulk terminals and pipelines. The government requires that
reports be filed with the EIA, the Energy Department’s
statistical arm, for its weekly survey.  Syrian War  Oil’s advance is stalling near its 30-day Bollinger Band,
signaling a technical-resistance area where sell orders may be
clustered, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. WTI’s band
is around $98.15 a barrel today and Brent’s indicator is at
$105.90. WTI fell in April while Brent decreased in February
after a similar chart pattern.  “Geopolitical issues out of the  Middle East  and prospects
of a U.S. recovery are helping oil to maintain these levels,”
said  Jonathan Barratt , the chief executive officer of Barratt’s
Bulletin, a commodity newsletter in Sydney. “There’s a general
view that people are more optimistic,” he said, predicting
investors may sell WTI contracts at about $98.50 a barrel.  Renewed concern that the conflict in  Syria  will spread to
other parts of the Middle East drove oil higher on June 14,
helping prices cap a two-week rally.  Iran’s Election  Backed by Lebanon’s Shiite militia Hezbollah and aid from
Iran and  Russia , Assad’s troops have shifted the momentum in
Syria’s civil war with an offensive against the rebels.
President  Barack Obama  last week ratcheted up U.S. support for
the rebels with a decision to send them light arms.  “The Syrian situation is definitely going in the wrong
direction,” SEB’s Schieldrop said. “The whole Middle East is
being polarized in a division between Sunni and Shiite Muslims.
It will be supportive for oil.”  Iranian President-elect Hassan Rohani said yesterday he
seeks to ease tension with the U.S. and reduce the sanctions
that have crippled his nation’s economy. Rohani, in the first
news conference since his surprise first-round victory last
weekend, said he will pursue a policy of moderation. He takes
office in August.  “If he’s moderate and prepared to discuss, that will
reduce sanctions and increase oil production, which will calm
prices,” said  Robert Montefusco , a senior broker at Sucden
Financial Ltd. in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  