-- Yale to Sell $100 Million of Munis With Yields at 15-Month High
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-06-17T14:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/yale-to-sell-100-million-of-munis-with-yields-at-15-month-high.html
Yale University, the second-wealthiest U.S. college, is planning a $100 million tax-exempt
bond sale with municipal yields near the highest in 15 months.  The New Haven,  Connecticut , school will use the proceeds to
refinance debt issued in 2003 to pay for construction and
renovation. The variable-rate bonds will be issued through the
Connecticut Health and Educational Facilities Authority. Moody’s
rates the securities Aaa, its top grade.  Yale, ranked No. 3 by U.S. News and World Report among
national universities, will issue the debt as the $3.7 trillion
muni market is in its longest slump since 2011.  The  interest rate  on benchmark munis maturing in 10 years
was about 2.34 percent as of 9 a.m. in New York, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. That’s near the highest since March 2012.
Tax-free debt has lost 1.5 percent this month after a 1.3
percent drop in May, on pace for the first two-month losing
streak since 2011, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  “The university continues to benefit from advantageous
interest-rate conditions through its substantial variable-rate
debt program, but has hedged a significant portion of its
exposure to higher interest expense with  interest-rate swaps ,”
according to offering documents. The school has about $1.3
billion of such swaps outstanding.  Yale has $3.4 billion of Moody’s-rated debt outstanding,
according to a report from the company. It had a $19.3 billion
endowment, second only to Harvard University.  The school, which has alumni including former President
George W. Bush and Nobel Prize-winning economist Paul Krugman,
had a 7 percent acceptance rate for the previous academic year.  The top credit grade reflects “its globally recognized
position as a leader in education and research, as demonstrated
by extraordinary student demand and superior philanthropic
support,” Moody’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  