-- Yen Weakens Second Day Versus Dollar Before Fed; Real Tumbles
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-06-18T21:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/yen-holds-decline-versus-dollar-on-stock-gains-fed-prospects.html
The yen weakened for a second day
against the dollar as the  Federal Reserve  holds a two-day
meeting that may provide more information about when U.S. policy
makers will start to reduce bond purchases.  Japan ’s currency pared its gain this month after the
nation’s central bank estimated the current-account balance
increased to a record amid unprecedented monetary stimulus. The
real touched a four-year low, prompting the Brazilian central
bank to intervene for a second straight day as a report showed
higher-than-forecast inflation. The Swiss franc advanced versus
all of its 16 major peers.  “The Fed has sidelined a lot of investors,”  Joe Manimbo ,
a market analyst at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
Western union Co., said by phone from  Washington . “Given the
heightened level of uncertainty over the Fed meeting this time
around, I think investors are playing it fairly neutral.”  The yen declined 0.9 percent to 95.33 per dollar at 5 p.m.
in  New York  after depreciating 0.2 percent yesterday. The
currency has rallied 5.4 percent this month. Japan’s currency
weakened 1.1 percent to 127.67 per euro. The euro gained 0.2
percent to $1.3392, rising to the highest level on a closing
basis since Feb. 13.  Real Weakens  Brazil ’s central bank President Alexandre Tombini said
policy makers are working to reduce the inflationary pressure
that may stem from a drop in the real, the worst performing
major currency in the past month. The real depreciated 0.5
percent to 2.1815 per  U.S. dollar .  India ’s rupee dropped the most in a week on concern the Fed
will signal a reduction in asset purchases that have boosted
inflows to  emerging markets . The  Reserve Bank  of India held its
repurchase rate at 7.25 percent yesterday. The currency slid 1.6
percent to 58.7725 per dollar.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $26.1 billion, compared with $27.4 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  was $4.7 billion, the largest share
of trades at 18 percent. Euro-dollar options were the second
most actively traded, at $3.6 billion, or 14 percent.  Yen-dollar options trading was 50 percent less than the
average for the past five Tuesdays at a similar time in the day.
Euro-greenback options trading was 12 percent more than average.  Price Swings  The JPMorgan Global FX Volatility Index increased to 10.46
percent from 10.25 percent yesterday after climbing to a one-year high of 11.43 percent on June 13. The average in the past
12 months is 8.65 percent.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will hold a press conference
in Washington tomorrow following the central-bank meeting. He
said on May 22 the Fed could reduce its monthly purchases of $45
billion of Treasuries and $40 billion of mortgage securities if
the employment outlook shows sustained improvement.  Bernanke is “likely to remain vague” about the Fed’s
future exit strategy or a tapering of asset purchases,  Joseph Capurso , a currency strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) 
in Sydney, wrote in a note to clients.  “Market participants are uncertain about the outlook for
extraordinary policy support being provided by the Federal
Reserve and the Bank of Japan,” Capurso wrote. “Hedgers such
as real money managers and corporates may consider taking cover
against the risk of heightened volatility.”  Economic Update  Beginning construction of new U.S. homes increased in May
and permits to build single-family houses rose to a five-year
high, extending a rebound that is helping shore up the
expansion. A separate report showed the cost of living in the
U.S. rose less than forecast in May, signaling inflation remains
under control.  The  Bank of Japan  estimated its current-account balance, a
measure of financial firms’ deposits at the central bank, will
rise to a record 75.5 trillion yen.  The yen has fallen 7.5 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that track 10 developed-market currencies. The dollar rose 2.8 percent and the euro was
the best performer, advancing 4.5 percent.  “The euro is getting a wind to its back thanks to some
strength against Japanese cross and some better data on the
German investor,” Western Union’s Manimbo said.  The euro reached a four-month high versus the dollar after
the ZEW Institute in Mannheim said its  index  of investor and
analyst expectations, which aims to predict German economic
developments six months in advance, increased to 38.5 in June
from 36.4 the previous month.  German industrial production climbed the most in more than
a year and exports increased more than forecast in April,
government reports released this month showed.  Franc Gains  The Swiss franc advanced versus most of its major peers
after the lower house of parliament voted against further
deliberations of a law allowing banks to cooperate with the
U.S., making it less likely the bill will pass.  “The deal would presumably result in potential outflow of
franc deposits,”  Valentin Marinov , head of European Group of 10
currency strategy at Citigroup Inc., wrote in the company’s FX
Wire note. “If the deal is not approved in the lower house,
this could help the franc regain more ground across the board.”  The Swiss currency strengthened 0.1 percent to 1.2324 per
euro and gained 0.3 percent to 92.02 centimes per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  