-- Yuan Gains Most in 3 Weeks as Central Bank Sets Record Fixing
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-06-17T09:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-17/yuan-gains-most-in-3-weeks-as-central-bank-sets-record-fixing.html
China ’s  yuan  advanced the most in
three weeks after the People’s Bank of China raised its
reference rate to a record.  The currency gained 0.09 percent, the most since May 27, to
6.1250 per dollar in Shanghai, according to China Foreign
Exchange Trade System prices. The central bank will not
intentionally depreciate the yuan to boost competitiveness,
People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  was cited as
saying by  China Central Television  this month.  “We have another record high fixing by the PBOC,” said
Khoon Goh, a senior strategist at Australian & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. “As a result, the yuan is stronger. But
broadly, while we did see the yuan higher, the prevailing
sentiment is that people want to buy dollars.”  The central bank boosted the yuan’s  reference rate  by 0.01
percent to an all-time high of 6.15980 today. The currency is
allowed to trade a maximum 1 percent either side of the fixing.  Yuan positions at domestic lenders from foreign-exchange
transactions, a gauge of capital inflows, recorded their
smallest gain since November last month. Investors pulled $2.1
billion from Asia in the week through June 12, the most since
August 2011, Citigroup Inc. analyst  Markus Rosgen  wrote last
week, citing EPFR Global.  China’s industrial output growth slowed to 9.2 percent from
a year earlier in May, less than the 9.4 percent forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of economists. Exports rose the least in 10
months and factory-gate prices fell for a 15th month, official
figures released this month show.  Capital Flows  “Investors are pulling back, softening capital inflows,
and not only the yuan but other Asian currencies are weakening
as well,” said Ho Woei Chen, a Singapore-based economist at
United Overseas Bank Ltd. “The pace of yuan gains could slow or
it could depreciate. But, for the year, we still see
appreciation possible.”  China’s macroeconomy can’t rely on policy loosening and
stimulus for continued recovery,  Shanghai  Securities News
reported today, citing a research report released by Renmin
University. The yuan’s cross-border use should be expanded
beyond trade to investment and financing, the newspaper
reported, citing Xing Yujing, secretary general of the People’s
Bank of China’s monetary policy committee.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards strengthened 0.2
percent to 6.2566 per dollar in  Hong Kong , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts traded at a 2.1 percent
 discount  to the onshore spot.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan advanced 0.1
percent today to 6.1279 per dollar, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  One-month implied volatility in the onshore yuan, a measure
of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
lost six basis points to 1.73 percent today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  