-- Navy SEALs’ ‘Act of Valor’ Captures Weekend Box Office With $24.7 Million
-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-02-27T22:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/-act-of-valor-tops-box-office-with-24-7-million-in-receipts.html
“Act of Valor,” from Relativity
Media, led the box office in its debut weekend, collecting $24.5
million in ticket sales at U.S. and Canadian theaters.  “Tyler Perry’s Good Deeds” opened in second place with
$15.6 million for  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , researcher
 Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed statement.  “Act of Valor,” filmed with active U.S. Navy SEAL forces,
broke through in a crowded Oscar weekend that saw four new
movies open. Weinstein Co.’s “The Artist,” winner last night
of five Academy Awards, including best picture, generated $3
million in sales this past weekend after expanding to 966
theaters from 808.  “Most of the films that are nominated get a little bit of
a bump once they are nominated, and then, of course, films that
win an Academy Award get some pretty substantial bumps
following,” said  Paul Sweeney , an analyst for Bloomberg
Industries, in a telephone interview.  “The King’s Speech” received a boost in ticket sales last
year after taking the top prize, and ended up grossing more than
$400 million in global box office, he said.  “The Artist” has grossed $31.9 million in domestic
theaters since its release on Nov. 25.  “We’ve had a tremendous track record with ‘The Artist’ and
should we garner awards, it could have a positive effect on the
box office,” Erik Lomis, Weinstein Co.’s president of
theatrical distribution and home entertainment, said in an
interview last week.  The Most Elite  For “Act of Valor,” directors Scott Waugh and Mike McCoy
hired active-duty SEALs to create realistic action scenes such
as a raid on a drug compound. They are out to rescue a missing
CIA agent played by Roselyn Sanchez.  SEAL teams, among the most elite of U.S. troops, gained
worldwide attention for the May 2011 raid on a safe house in
 Pakistan  that killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden. The film
cost $12 million to make, according to Hollywood.com.  “Hollywood profitability is a difficult thing to
achieve,” Sweeney said. “It’s hard for lower-budget films to
break through, and when they do it tends to be very
profitable.”  ‘Good Deeds’  Perry, known for the “Madea” comedies aimed at African-
American audiences, stars in “Good Deeds” as a businessman
whose scripted life takes an unexpected turn after he does a
favor for a single mother, played by Thandie Newton, who works
on the cleaning crew in his building.  Perry’s four “Madea” movies have taken in $455 million
worldwide for  Lions Gate , including $288 million in the domestic
market.  Returning movies “Journey 2: The Mysterious Islands,”
“Safe House,” and “The Vow” rounded out the top five.  “Journey 2: The Mysterious Island,” from  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros., generated $13.4 million, good for $76.6
million in its third weekend. The picture features  Dwayne Johnson  in a 3-D sequel to the 2009 hit “Journey to the Center
of the Earth.”  “Safe House,” from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures ,
took in $10.9 million, falling to fourth from first. The film,
starring  Denzel Washington  as a rogue CIA agent, has generated
$97.6 million in three weeks.  The romantic drama “The Vow” dropped to fifth from second
with $9.9 million in receipts for  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s Screen Gems unit.
The film, starring  Channing Tatum  as a man whose wife awakens
from a coma with no memory of their marriage, has drawn $102.9
million in U.S. ticket sales.  Out of Top Five  A pair of major new releases failed to crack the top five.
Universal’s R-rated comedy “Wanderlust” made its debut in
eighth place with $6.5 million. The movie stars  Jennifer Aniston 
and  Paul Rudd  as a New York couple that stumbles on a hippie
commune.  “Gone,” from  Summit Entertainment , starring Amanda
Seyfried as a woman searching for a sister who has been
abducted, was ninth with $4.8 million.  “That’s a disappointment for both of them,” Sweeney said.
“They weren’t well reviewed, and there was different types of
box office behavior given the Academy Awards and people going to
see the nominated films.”  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 19 percent to
$114.2 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said.
Attendance is up 20 percent year to date, while revenue is up 18
percent. The amounts below are based on actual tickets sales for
Feb. 24 through Feb 26.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in  Los Angeles  at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  