-- A Brokered Republican Convention? Keep Dreaming: Albert R. Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-02-26T16:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/a-brokered-republican-convention-keep-dreaming-albert-r-hunt.html
If  Mitt Romney  loses the Feb. 28
primary in Michigan, panic will set in among Republican
politicians and big contributors; talk of a brokered convention
or a late-entering candidate will reach a crescendo.  To be sure, the Republican presidential contest could be in
shambles. If Romney then loses  Ohio  the following week, he’s a
severely -- as he might put it -- wounded ex-front-runner. If
former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  wins these two
contests, there will be fresh tension over his general-election
prospects.  Party leaders, such as they are, will place frantic calls
to former Florida Governor Jeb Bush or current governors Mitch Daniels of Indiana and  Chris Christie  of New Jersey, or even to
Congressman  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin . The dream of almost every
political reporter is for the first truly brokered convention in
more than 75 years.  It’s not going to happen.  First, Romney is a slight favorite in  Michigan (BEESMI) . Even if
he’s upset, it won’t lead to the brokered-convention scenario. I
talked last week with five Republicans who would be on anyone’s
list of the 25 most influential in the party. They all dismissed
such prospects. (Pick most among the 25 and you get the same
answer; some, such as Karl Rove, have said so publicly). A late
entry is a non-starter, as is a candidate who hasn’t contested
for the nomination.  Michigan and Ohio  For better or worse, voters, not power brokers, pick
presidential nominees. If Romney wins  Michigan  and  Ohio (BEESOH) , he’s
right back to being the overwhelming favorite to win the
nomination. If his nightmare scenario unfolds, Santorum becomes
the favorite, with Romney still in the game.  A Romney loss will bring a cry for a new candidate. Anyone
entering the race in late-February could still compete in more
than half of the primaries. As late as June 5, there are
primaries in  California (BEESCA) , New Jersey,  New Mexico  and  Montana ,
offering 271 delegates, or more than have been chosen so far.  Except, there’s no natural candidate. The most logical
would be Jeb Bush, a seasoned adult acceptable to almost all
elements of the party. The 59-year-old Bush, however, has made
it clear to associates and those who ask that for personal and
political reasons he won’t run this year. Informed sources say
this hasn’t changed.  Two current governors, Daniels, 62, and Christie, 49, have
been mentioned. None of the reasons that caused them not to run
-- the Indiana chief executive lacks the fire in the belly and
the  New Jersey  chief executive has said he wasn’t ready for the
White House, and both would have problems with the cultural
right -- have changed.  The freshest new face would be Ryan, 42, the articulate
chairman of the House Budget Committee, who is a genuine ideas
man. He’s never run outside his southeastern Wisconsin district,
and in a national contest, he probably would resemble the
proverbial can’t-miss baseball prospect who’s rushed to the
Major Leagues too soon and never achieves his potential.  Who would be the brokers and who would be the brokees?  Voters and politicians who have participated in the process
wouldn’t be happy about turning to someone who hasn’t.  “A candidate needs to be vetted,” says Claira Monier, the
co-chairwoman of the Santorum effort in  New Hampshire . “If
we’re not going to vet our nominee, why have a primary
process?”  A brokered convention is a political relic. In the last 28
conventions of both parties, the nominee was picked on the first
ballot.  Ford and Reagan  The most closely contested was in 1976, after Gerald Ford,
the incumbent Republican president, and his challenger,  Ronald Reagan , finished the primaries in early June dead even.  Ford, using the perquisites of office, was picking off a
handful of delegates every few days until the conservative
challenger delivered a shocker by announcing that he had tapped
a liberal  Pennsylvania  senator, Richard Schweiker, as his
running mate. As the two camps went to the Kansas City
convention, the president enjoyed a slight lead. The Reagan high
command brilliantly chose to wage a fight over a rule that would
have forced Ford to announce his running mate in advance and
probably tilted the nomination toward Reagan. The Ford camp
prevailed by a couple dozen votes.  It was high drama, with circumstances that were totally
different from anything this time. There were two compelling
candidates and the argument was over who was stronger, not who
has the greatest deficiencies; no one ever mentioned a
compromise candidate.  Romney and Santorum aren’t Reagan or Ford, leading
Republicans fear; almost no one gives Ron Paul or  Newt Gingrich 
any serious shot at the nomination, though they could be in a
position to cut deals by late August, when Republicans reach
Tampa for the convention.  Of the front-runners, even politicians disposed to support
Romney and who believe he is the strongest candidate against
President  Barack Obama , are taken aback by the persistent
resistance to his nomination from a sizeable faction of
Republican conservatives. By the end of January, the former
Massachusetts governor had more money, endorsements, experience
as a candidate, and had won New Hampshire, almost won  Iowa  and
ran away with  Florida . In past years that would have been game,
set, match. Not this time.  In Santorum’s case, it’s the lack of peer support that is
striking. Of the 78 Republicans he served with in the Senate,
only one is backing him. Almost no major Republican from his
home state of Pennsylvania is a backer. You get a blank stare
when you ask leading party professionals about Santorum’s inner
circle.  Still, the odds in Las Vegas this week are around 90
percent that one of these two men will be the party’s nominee.
Here is some solace for the Republican nervous Nellies: At this
same stage in the campaign, both Reagan and  Bill Clinton  looked
like losers. Ok, it’s a reach; it’s the best they have.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 