-- AIJ Probe by Japan Regulator Undermines Pensions Alternative Asset Plans
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2012-02-27T02:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/aij-probe-by-japan-regulator-undermines-pensions-alternative-asset-plans.html
The suspension of  AIJ Investment
Advisors Co. ’s operations amid concerns hedge funds it manages
had lost pension money may undermine plans by Japan’s retirement
funds to boost returns to meet demand in an aging society.  The Financial Services Agency on Feb. 24 ordered the Tokyo-
based firm with 183.2 billion yen ($2.3 billion) of client money
to stop business for a month as the regulator investigates
“possible losses” at AIJ’s hedge funds. The FSA also will
undertake a nationwide probe of 263 asset managers.  “If the funds actually suffered losses, this could
potentially have a massive impact on pension plans that actually
invested with them,” said Taro Ogai, who oversees consulting
for pension fund investments at Towers Watson in  Tokyo .
“Pensions already face difficulties. At a time when they are
trying to boost returns and cut risks, investing in hedge funds
may become difficult for them.”  The inquiry is a setback for Japan’s pension industry that
has been looking to diversify away from bonds and equities into
alternatives investments, including hedge funds, to maintain
steady returns and fund retiree benefits in a country with the
world’s fastest-growing aging society and two decades of
slumping markets. It also raises questions about the nation’s
corporate governance after camera maker Olympus Corp.’s
admission that it covered up losses by overpaying advisers.  Non-Traditional Strategy  Regulators have been investigating AIJ, which invests in
futures and options of equities and bonds, since the end of
January, and discovered that the company has been unable to
explain to investors the current state of the way their money is
being managed, according to the FSA.  AIJ is registered in  Japan  by the FSA as a so-called
discretionary investment manager, which can include fund
managers that employ hedge fund strategies.  Pensions view AIJ as a hedge fund because its strategies
aren’t tied to simply buying and selling traditional asset
classes such as bonds and equities.  Alternative investments  also
include private equity funds, real estate, commodities and
infrastructure.  AIJ’s funds have been traced from Japan to the  Cayman
Islands , followed by a trust bank in  Bermuda  and ultimately to
“a major European Bank” in  Hong Kong , the Asahi newspaper said
Feb. 25, citing an investigation by Japan’s Securities and
Exchange Surveillance Commission. AIJ kept money-flow records up
to the unidentified bank in Hong Kong and no further records
have been found, the newspaper said.  Pension Returns  AIJ may have lost most of the 200 billion yen it manages
for companies’ pension plans, the Nikkei newspaper reported Feb.
24, citing unidentified securities investigators.  The investigation into Japan’s 263 asset managers may be
one of the biggest into licensed managers in the nation, said
 Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $600 million at Ichiyoshi
Investment Management Co. in Tokyo.  The investigation into whether the 263 are disclosing
performances to their clients and how they are managing their
money will begin today,  Kyodo News  reported.  Japan’s financial regulator is also planning to investigate
trust banks that handle pension money as well as corporate
pensions, the Nikkei newspaper reported over the weekend.  The regulator penalized at least 35 financial institutions
last year including Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG for breaching
securities rules, according to its  website .  Weak Market Performance  Japanese pension plan returns have been hurt by low bond
yields, an aging population and the world’s worst-performing
stock market in the past 20 years. People 65 years or older will
account for 29 percent of the population in 2020 and almost 40
percent in 2050, while the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  is at a
quarter of its 1989 peak. The 10-year Japanese government bond
yield is at 0.968 percent, second-lowest after  Switzerland .  AIJ, led by Kazuhiko Asakawa, was established in April 1989,
and had 120 clients including pension plans with 183.2 billion
yen in assets as of the end of 2010, according to a statement
from the FSA. It has 12 employees. Phone calls to AIJ’s main
office were answered by an automatic recording which didn’t
allow messages to be recorded.  Asakawa said the firm’s profits won’t be dependent on the
rise and falls of the markets as it uses a complex financial
technology, the Wall Street Journal reported today, citing his
message on an archived webpage of AIJ. The page is no longer on
its website.  ‘Not Enough’  “The size and age of an investment management firm is not
enough to rely on,” said  Rory Kennedy , chief operating officer
in Tokyo at Rogers Investment Advisors K.K., which allocates
money to hedge funds. “This incident once again proves the
clear need to use experienced professionals to perform due
diligence when investing in any area in which you are not an
expert.”  Asakawa was a former employee at  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,
according to a person familiar with his employment. Keiko Sugai,
a Tokyo-based spokeswoman at Nomura, declined to comment.  AIJ’s fund was ranked top among pension funds in 2008, said
Fujio Nakatsuka, a spokesman at Rating & Investment Information
Inc. in Tokyo. He said the rankings were based on responses from
pensions and not what R&I had recommended to investors.  The hedge fund industry has come under scrutiny in the past
four years, since the collapse of hedge funds run by Bear
Stearns Cos. in 2007.  Bernard Madoff  was arrested in 2008 for
operating the largest  Ponzi scheme  in U.S. history and hedge
fund Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam was found
guilty in May on insider-trading charges.  Proper Due Diligence  “Pension funds need to acquire financial literacy to do
proper due diligence to figure out the risks as it becomes
easier for different types of people to enter the market,” said
Tetsuo Tanimura, the head of hedge fund consulting firm C2G
Advisors Co.  Advantest Corp. (6857) , a maker of memory-chip testers, said in a
statement it has 1.7 billion yen, or about 8 percent of its
total corporate pension fund, invested with AIJ.  Yaskawa
Electric Corp. (6506)  has about 2 percent of its pension money managed
by AIJ and the impact will be limited, said Ayumi Hayashida, a
spokesman at the company.  The truck driver pension union in Fukui prefecture has
invested about 300 million yen in AIJ through a brokerage, said
Kazuyuki Hashimoto, an adviser to the  retirement plan .  Due diligence on hedge funds will probably become stricter,
while the importance of so-called gatekeepers that introduce
investments to funds will increase, said Takafumi Sahoda,
founding president of Darwin Capital Partners Ltd., a Japanese
hedge fund.  ‘Massive Failure’  “Pension funds have been reluctant to put money directly
into hedge funds and majority of them have done through fund-of-
hedge funds,” said Tokyo-based Sahoda. “Once the gatekeepers
can start doing their jobs properly, this could actually lead to
an improvement in the industry.”  Thirty-two percent of 119 Japanese pension funds wanted to
add alternative investments in the current fiscal year, a survey
in April 2011 by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Tokyo-based asset
management unit showed.  “If the story coming out is true, then it’s a massive
failure of due diligence,” said Rogers Investment’s Kennedy.
“However, hedge funds play a critical role in modern portfolios
and we must be careful to not condemn all hedge funds out of
hand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  