-- Takeda’s TAK-875 Fights Diabetes as Well as Older Drug in Study
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-02-26T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/takeda-s-tak-875-fights-diabetes-as-well-as-older-generic-drug-in-a-study.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) ’s
experimental diabetes drug lowered blood sugar as much as an
older generic medicine with fewer side effects, a company-
sponsored study found.  In a trial of 426 patients with  Type 2 diabetes , TAK-875
reduced blood sugar below a pre-determined level in as much as
48 percent of those receiving it after 12 weeks, compared with
40 percent of those who got glimepiride, the older drug,
according to findings published  online  by The Lancet medical
journal today. The research was presented in June at the
 American Diabetes Association ’s annual meeting in  San Diego .  Takeda is testing TAK-875 in the third and final stage of
patient studies usually required for regulatory approval. The
 Osaka , Japan-based company seeks products to replace sales of
Actos, the world’s best-selling diabetes treatment, that will be
lost when the therapy’s patent protection ends this year.  About 90 percent of the 285 million people worldwide with
diabetes have Type 2, the form that TAK-875 is designed to
fight. The pill belongs to a new class of treatments called
GPR40 agonists, which activate a receptor that stimulates and
regulates insulin production.  New treatments are needed because of “the expected
increase in the number of cases of Type 2 diabetes during the
next few decades” and because some current drugs have
“insufficient effect,” the researchers, led by  Charles Burant 
at the University of Michigan Medical School, wrote in the
study.  About 2 percent of those receiving TAK-875 in the trial
developed hypoglycemia, a complication in which blood sugar is
lowered too much, compared with 19 percent of those receiving
glimepiride, the researchers wrote. About half of the TAK-875
group experienced an adverse side effect of any kind, compared
with 61 percent of those in the glimepiride group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  