-- Mandela Discharged After Procedure for Abdominal Complaint
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-02-26T13:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/mandela-discharged-after-procedure-for-abdominal-complaint-1-.html
Nelson Mandela , the former South
African President, was discharged from an undisclosed hospital
today after a diagnostic procedure following his admission
yesterday to determine the cause of abdominal complaints.  “The doctors have decided to send him home as the
diagnostic procedure he underwent did not indicate anything
seriously wrong with him,” the presidency said on its website.
The 93-year-old was in good health, comfortable and surrounded
by his family earlier, the presidency said.  Mandela underwent a laparoscopy, the South African Press
Association said, citing Defence Minister Lindiwe Sisulu today.
It’s a surgical procedure in which a fiber-optic instrument is
inserted through the abdominal wall to view the organs in the
abdomen or permit small-scale surgery, according to Oxford
Dictionaries.  Mandela’s admission wasn’t an emergency and was “pre-
planned,” Mac Maharaj, the Presidency’s spokesman, said by
phone yesterday.  Mandela spent 27 years in prison on an island near  Cape
Town  for fighting for black rights and became the country’s
first black president after apartheid, the official racial
segregation policy, ended in 1994. He negotiated a peaceful end
to the old regime with leaders of  South Africa ’s white minority
government. He stepped down as president voluntarily in 1999.  Mandela was admitted to Netcare Milpark Hospital in
Johannesburg briefly a year ago for an acute respiratory
infection. He had radiotherapy treatment in 2001 after doctors
found microscopic prostate cancer.  He moved back to Johannesburg on Jan. 29 after spending
several months at his house in Qunu in the Eastern Cape
province, the Johannesburg-based Sunday Times reported on that
day, citing Maharaj.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  