-- Manufacturing, Spending Probably Gained: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-02-26T05:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/manufacturing-in-u-s-probably-increased-at-faster-pace-to-lead-expansion.html
Manufacturing probably accelerated
for a fourth straight month in February,  consumer confidence 
improved and Americans picked up the pace of spending a month
earlier, economists said reports this week will show.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  factory index  rose to
an eight-month high of 54.5 from 54.1 in January, according to
the median estimate of 62 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Readings above 50 signal growth. Consumer purchases in January
rose 0.4 percent, the most in four months, another report may
show.  Manufacturers remain at the forefront of the more than two-
year-old expansion, aided by corporate investment in equipment,
inventory rebuilding and a pickup in the  auto industry . Risks to
the industry that accounts for about 12 percent of the economy
include higher fuel costs and a slowdown in  Europe  linked to its
debt crisis.  “The manufacturing outlook has been relatively bright,”
Jeremy Lawson, a senior U.S. economist at BNP Paribas in  New
York , said before the report. “Domestic demand seems to be
contributing to the strength in manufacturing. A wild card is
whether the rise in gas prices will start to affect spending.”  The price of a gallon of regular unleaded gasoline climbed
to $3.65 as of Feb. 23 from a 10-month low of $3.21 on Dec. 20,
according to AAA, the nation’s largest automobile association.  Monetary Policy  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will give his
semiannual  monetary policy  report to Congress this week and he
may repeat that the central bank is likely to keep low  interest
rates  in place through late 2014 to ensure the economy keeps
growing. He testifies before House lawmakers on Feb. 29 and the
following day to the Senate Banking Committee.  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM is due to report its
manufacturing index on March 1. Estimates ranged from 53.7 to
55.8.  Personal spending probably rose in January after little
change in December and 0.1 percent gains in each of the previous
two months, according to the survey median before the Commerce
Department report the same day.  Incomes (PITLCHNG)  probably climbed 0.5
percent for a second month, the biggest back-to-back gains since
February-March 2011.  Faster job growth is boosting the outlook for spending and
production. Payrolls grew by 243,000 workers in January, and the
jobless rate fell to 8.3 percent, the lowest since February
2009, the Labor Department said Feb. 3.  Job and income gains helped boost confidence. The
Conference Board’s 10 a.m. release on Feb. 28 may show its index
climbed to 63 this month from 61.1.  Factory Jobs  Factory payrolls jumped by 50,000, the most in a year, and
the industry’s workers put in the longest workweek on average
since January 1998, the Labor Department monthly data showed.  Manufacturing, which sparked the early stages of the
recovery as growing overseas economies propelled exports, has
recovered after a lull brought on by  Japan ’s March 2011
earthquake.  Another report from the Commerce Department on Feb. 28 may
show orders for  durable goods  fell 1 percent in January after a
3 percent gain, which may reflect a decrease in demand for
Boeing Co. aircraft. Orders excluding transportation equipment
probably were unchanged after a 2.2 percent gain, economists
forecast.  Business investment remains a bright spot. Corporate
spending on equipment and software rose at a 5.2 percent annual
rate from October through December. While slower than the prior
period’s 16 percent gain, a surge in orders in December
indicates  capital spending  will strengthen in the current
quarter.  Caterpillar Production  “For many products demand has been above our ability to
produce,”  Mike DeWalt , director of  investor relations  at
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , said on a Jan. 26 conference call with
analysts. “We have invested in Caterpillar factories in the
 United States  and around the world to increase production.”  Even with planned increases in  capital expenditures  this
year, “we’re still very tight on many products and are
currently quoting extended delivery times for them,” he said.  Machinery and equipment makers have outperformed the
broader stock market. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
 Machinery Index (S15MACH)  has gained 20 percent so far this year, compared
with an 8.6 percent increase for the  S&P 500 Index. (SPX)   Vehicle demand should also drive production. Cars and light
trucks sold at a 14.1 million annual rate last month, according
to industry data. Excluding a surge in August 2009 tied to the
government’s “cash-for-clunkers” program, it was the strongest
month since May 2008.  Housing remains the economy’s weakest link. The  S&P/Case-
Shiller (SPCS20)  index of  home prices  in 20 cities may have fallen in
December by 3.6 percent from a year earlier after a 3.7 percent
drop in the 12 months through November, economists forecast the
Feb. 28 data to show.  
To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  