-- Mao’s Red Flag Returning to Drive China Leaders From Audi: Cars
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-27T11:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/mao-s-red-flag-limo-returns-for-chinese-officials-in-threat-to-audi-cars.html
Chairman  Mao Zedong ’s Red Flag
limousine is making a comeback after a $280 million overhaul,
seeking to regain its standing as the ride of Chinese leaders
from  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi.  China FAW Group Corp. (CHFAWZ) , which built the first Hongqi -- as
the brand is known in Chinese -- for Mao in 1958, received state
approval this month to make the C131, reviving the Red Flag’s
production after it was discontinued in 2010. The sedan will be
the official car for minister-level officials, according to the
Communist Party’s official People’s Daily website.  The endorsement may be a blow to Audi, which accounts for
an estimated 30 percent of cars used by public servants, and
illustrates the state’s efforts to protect domestic producers as
they struggle to compete against VW and General Motors Co. China
signaled last week it will stop buying foreign brands and in
January ended some incentives on external investments.  “The move is an indication that the government supports
the homegrown  auto industry ,” said Klaus Paur, Shanghai-based
head of auto research at Ipsos. “Audi has a long history as
provider of government cars. Therefore, a substantial reduction
of foreign brand purchases would impact Audi the most.”  Ipsos estimates the government spends about $16 billion a
year as China’s biggest buyer of cars, while China International
Capital Corp. projects the amount to be closer to $13 billion.  China’s first carmaker plans to invest 1.98 billion yuan
($280 million) on the Red Flag and produce 30,000 C131s next
year, according to the closely held carmaker. The Hongqi is part
of ambitions by FAW -- which makes vehicles with  General Motors
Co. (GM) , VW and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  -- to double its own-brand
vehicle sales to more than 2 million units by 2015.  Following Mao  Chinese leaders followed the late Mao in embracing the Red
Flag. President  Hu Jintao  stood in an open-topped Hongqi parade
car during China’s National Day celebrations, as did  Jiang Zemin 
and the late  Deng Xiaoping . U.S. President  Richard Nixon  rode in
one during his 1972 trip to China.  Then the global oil shocks hit and FAW was ordered in 1981
to stop producing Red Flag sedans because of its high fuel
consumption. Attempts to revive the brand -- including buying a
platform from  Nissan Motor (7201)  Co. in 1982 and revamping the vehicle
three times from 1987 to 1990 -- failed, leading FAW to
discontinue production two years ago.  The last model, based on a Toyota platform, sold from
334,800 yuan, enough to buy a Mercedes C-class sedan or an Audi
Q5 sport-utility vehicle, according to Sina.com prices.  ‘Crowded’ Market  China ’s elite defected toward foreign brands as FAW was
unable to deliver cars that could compete in  fuel efficiency ,
reliability and styling, said Zhang Xin, a Beijing-based analyst
at Guotai Securities. That hasn’t changed, he said.  “It will be tough for FAW to revamp the brand now given
that the market is already way too crowded,” said Zhang. “They
may have to sacrifice profit for sales.”  The government owns FAW and its purchases may help turn
around the iconic brand, the People’s Daily  reported  this month.  “Red Flag still has a reputation in China, mostly the one
of the traditional limousines of the leaders,” said Erik van Ingen Schenau, a car historian and author of “Hongqi: A History
of the Limousine.” “Without selling to the state, the C131
won’t be a success.”  Under current rules, ministers can use domestic or foreign
cars as long as they have engines no bigger than 2.5 liters and
cost no more than 380,000 yuan, while vice ministers are
restricted to 280,000 yuan. Cars can be replaced every eight
years.  Home Advantage  Count Dong Yang, deputy head of  China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers , among those saying the government
should help its own.  “State leaders in many countries ride their home-brand
vehicles and I think our own officials should do so as well,”
said Dong, who’s involved in drafting the government vehicle
procurement list that’s in the final approval stage.  The Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology  last
week issued a preliminary list of this year’s official-vehicle
purchases, which excluded all foreign brands.  Chinese government officials didn’t respond to faxed
queries. Liu Lina, a spokeswoman with FAW Group’s publicly
traded unit, declined to comment on the report or provide
details of the C131.  Foreign carmakers stand to lose the most from a Red Flag
revival. Overseas brands accounted for about 80 percent of the
official pool, according to Zhang at Guotai Junan. In the
broader market, they account for 7 of every 10 cars sold in the
country, which overtook the U.S. in 2009 to become the world’s
largest vehicle market, according to data from CAAM.  ‘Small Part’  Audi said it would be able to overcome any loss in
government sales. Direct sales to the government represent only
a “small part” of Audi’s business in China because more than
90 percent of its customers are private buyers and the rest is
dominated by fleet sales to companies, said Martin Kuehl, a
Beijing-based spokesman for the automaker.  The automaker remains “a very attractive partner for the
customers in China, including the administration,” he said.
About half of Volkswagen’s earnings come from China, according
to estimates by  Max Warburton  at Sanford C. Bernstein in  London .  Still, the Ministry of Supervision estimates the state
operated a fleet of at least 5.2 million vehicles as of November
2007 -- more than the total number of cars sold in  Japan  last
year. Ministries and related agencies spent about 100 billion
yuan on official cars a year, according to Paur at Ipsos.  FAW isn’t the only Chinese automaker reviving brands.  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104) , the country’s biggest automaker, has
included the Shanghai brand in its product plans, the company
said in an e-mailed response, without giving additional details.
Generally used for lower-ranked bureaucrats who didn’t merit a
Red Flag, production of the brand was suspended in 1991 after
SAIC started making Santana cars with Volkswagen.  In the end, nostalgia and government support for homegrown
brands can only do so much, said Cao He, an analyst with China
Minzu Securities Co. in Beijing.  “The bottom line is that the Red Flag and other home-
designed cars need to be good enough,” Cao said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  