-- Arizona Governor Brewer Backs Romney as Republican Presidential Candidate
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-02-26T18:19:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/arizona-governor-brewer-backs-romney-as-republican-presidential-candidate.html
Arizona  Governor Jan Brewer endorsed
 Mitt Romney  for the Republican presidential nomination, citing
his “pro-business background and political history.”  “I think he’s the man who is going to carry the day and
I’m going to work as hard as I know how to see that he wins,”
Brewer said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program today. Romney
“would serve America best of all the candidates,” she said.  Arizona holds its primary Feb. 28, the same day as
 Michigan . Arizona has the fourth-highest Mormon population in
the U.S., after Utah,  California  and Idaho, according to a
Church of  Jesus Christ  of Latter-Day Saints website. Romney is a
member of the church.  Brewer, a 67-year-old Republican, has drawn attention for
her disputes with President Barack Obama’s administration over
immigration policy and health care. She took office in 2009
after Obama’s appointment of Democrat and former Arizona
governor  Janet Napolitano  as Homeland Security secretary.  Brewer sparked a national outcry after she signed
legislation in 2010 requiring police officers to check
immigration status and immigrants to carry identification
documents, a move that led to boycotts and a court challenge by
the Obama administration. The  Supreme Court  is scheduled to hear
arguments on the case in April.  Immigration Policy  Romney, 64, pledged to stop the federal government’s
lawsuit blocking that 2010 law “on day one” if he is elected.
During a Feb. 22 debate in Mesa, Arizona, he also praised
another state law that requires employers to check immigration
status as “a model.”  Brewer has used her defense of the law to challenge Obama’s
border policies.  “The bottom line is that we do need our borders secure,”
Brewer said on NBC. “ Mexico  is in terrible unrest -- the whole
state of Mexico being controlled by the drug cartels and all of
that crime is coming across our boarder, and Arizona is the
gateway.”  The governor’s public-approval ratings in Arizona increased
after she criticized Obama’s 2010 health-care overhaul and
signed the immigration law in 2010.  Brewer is also known for cutting Medicaid funding for organ
transplants and for signing legislation allowing any citizen
over 21 to carry a concealed firearm without a permit. She
backed a 1-cent sales-tax increase, approved by 64 percent of
Arizonans in May 2010, to help ease a $3 billion deficit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net 
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  