-- Arsenal Rallies to Defeat Archrival Tottenham 5-2; Manchester United Wins
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-02-27T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/arsenal-rallies-to-beat-tottenham-5-2-manchester-united-defeats-norwich.html
Arsenal rallied to defeat local
rival Tottenham 5-2 yesterday in English soccer’s Premier
League, while  Ryan Giggs  scored a late winner at Norwich on his
900th appearance for Manchester United.  The Gunners trailed by two goals after 34 minutes at the
Emirates Stadium in north London, but efforts from Bacary Sagna
and  Robin van Persie  saw them level at halftime.  Tomas Rosicky 
then put the Gunners ahead, with Theo Walcott adding two goals.  “It was a performance full of everything you want from your
team,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  told Sky Sports. “It was
an exciting game, we had a difficult start but kept going and
showed great character.”  The win lifts Arsenal above Chelsea into fourth spot
because it has scored more goals. Both have the same goal
difference.  United needed a 90th-minute goal from Giggs to secure a 2-1
win at Norwich and maintain pressure on league leader Manchester
City.  Paul Scholes  also scored for the defending champion at
Carrow Road, with  Grant Holt  replying for the hosts.  “Norwich put up a great fight but we didn’t really play
very well,” Giggs told the British Broadcasting Corp. “But I
think if you look at the last 10 minutes, we probably just
deserved it.”  City has 63 points, two ahead of United, with Tottenham
remaining on 53 points. Arsenal and Chelsea have 46 points.  Stoke City beat Swansea City 2-0 in yesterday’s other
match.  Spurs Lead  Spurs took only four minutes to take the lead at the
Emirates, with Louis Saha scoring his third goal for the club
since joining from Everton last month.  Former Arsenal forward Emmanuel Adebayor slid the ball
through the home team’s defense and Saha scored from a shot
which deflected off defender  Thomas Vermaelen  and over
goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny.  Van Persie  missed an opportunity to tie the game when he
fired wide after 20 minutes, then goalkeeper  Brad Friedel  tipped
over a header from Rosicky.  The visitor’s second goal came from a penalty kick after
Szczesny was adjudged to have fouled Gareth Bale. Adebayor
scored to make it 2-0.  Bale had an effort saved by Szczesny as he looked to
increase the lead, then Van Persie hit a post at the other end
of the field with Sagna heading into the net moments later. Van
Persie scored after 43 minutes from the edge of the area.  First Goal  Six minutes after halftime, Rosicky got his first goal of
the season before Walcott completed the turnaround with two
strikes. Walcott clipped his first over Friedel, then struck a
low shot into the bottom corner.  Tottenham, which came into the game on a three-match
unbeaten run in the league, finished with 10 men after Scott Parker was shown a second yellow card late on.  “Even at 2-0 I couldn’t say I felt over-comfortable,”
Tottenham manager Harry Redknapp told  Sky Sports . “We didn’t
defend well. It was basic, really.”  Giggs scored from close range late on to extend United’s
unbeaten league run to six games.  Norwich looked to have earned a point when Holt fired past
David de Gea on 83 minutes, with United striker  Danny Welbeck 
then missing a close-range header.  Scholes had given the visitors an early lead with a header
from a cross by Nani, his second goal since returning to the
team in January after reversing his decision to retire.  “It was more about the result than the performance,” Giggs
said.  Matthew Upson and Peter Crouch got first half goals for
Stoke as it beat Swansea at the Britannia Stadium. Stoke climbs
to 12th, while Swansea is 14th.  Two days ago, Man City beat Blackburn 3-0, Chelsea defeated
Bolton 3-0, Wolverhampton Wanderers tied 2-2 at Newcastle, while
West Bromwich Albion won 4-0 against Sunderland. Fulham beat
Queens Park Rangers 1-0, and the match between Wigan and Aston
Villa was 0-0.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net 
NI BFBNEWS
NI BFBMATCH
NI ARSENAL
NI TOTTENHAM
NI NORWICH
NI MANUTD
NI STOKE
NI SWANSEA
NI BFBTEAMS
NI UK 