-- Syria’s Constitutional Revisions Get 89% Support as EU Tightens Sanctions
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-02-27T15:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/assad-holds-referendum-on-syria-s-constitution-amid-escalating-violence.html
Syria ’s government said its citizens
approved a new constitution supporting President Bashar al- Assad’s bid to introduce political pluralism after almost a year
of violence as the European Union tightened sanctions.  The referendum drew 57.4 percent of eligible voters, or
about 8.4 million people, with 89.4 percent of casting ballots
in favor of the proposal, the state-run Syrian Arab News Agency
said on its website, citing the Interior Ministry. Fewer than 1
million people, or 9 percent of voters, rejected the new
charter, Syrian state television said. Assad’s forces continued
to shell cities in central and northern Syria during and after
the vote.  “The referendum in Syria is nothing more than a farce,”
German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said in a statement
late yesterday. “Phony votes cannot contribute to a solution to
the crisis.”  Assad is facing growing international pressure to end his
crackdown on dissent as he seeks to affirm his mandate as
Syria’s leader with the new constitution. The EU decided today
to freeze the central bank’s assets, ban precious-metals trading
with the country and prohibit cargo-only flights to the bloc.
The measures build on an oil embargo approved last September.
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who is campaigning for re-
election, said  France  would press  Russia  and  China  to drop their
opposition to United Nations sanctions against Syria.  Cities Shelled  At least 41 people died today in Syria, including 39
protesters and two soldiers, according to  Al Arabiya  television
and SANA. Shelling continued in the Baba Amr region in the
central city of Homs, Al Arabiya said, while the army also
attacked Idlib in the north,  Al Jazeera  reported.  About 8,500 people have been killed in the government’s
crackdown against the protests that began last March, according
to the Arab Organization for Human Rights.  Assad promised constitutional changes last year as he
sought to placate opponents by freeing some political prisoners,
changing the Cabinet and lifting a 48-year-old emergency law.
The new constitution promises democratic elections while
limiting presidents to two seven-year terms, according to a
draft published by SANA. Assad’s Baath Party has had a monopoly
on politics since seizing power in a 1963 coup.  Voting was extended to 10 p.m. local time yesterday because
of crowds in 14,185 polling stations across the country,
according to state television, which earlier aired live footage
of people waiting to cast ballots. Opposition groups said they
would boycott the vote.  Opposition Boycott  “Participation is low in many areas,” Rami Abdel Rahman,
head of the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human rights, said
by phone. “Participating in this referendum is like taking part
and giving legitimacy for the Syrian regime in the killings. The
boycott is meant to send a message to the regime that the people
do not want these reforms while you are killing them.”  Syria’s army has intensified attacks since a resolution
supported by the  Arab League  aimed at installing a transitional
government, to be followed by elections, was vetoed at the UN
Security Council by Russia and China on Feb. 4.  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar have urged arming the Syrian
opposition, raising the prospect of a widening conflict after
the “Friends of Syria” group met in Tunis on Feb. 24 to
pressure Assad to step down.  Weapons Proposal  The two Arab nations backed a plan to send weapons to
rebels fighting the Syrian regime, a call echoed by prominent
U.S. Republican lawmakers, while the Obama administration and
officials from Morocco,  Tunisia  and Bahrain said they are
against further militarization of the conflict.  “Syria rejects and condemns all that was said and decided
at the meeting of the enemies of Syria in Tunisia,” the
official  news agency   reported . The government considers calls to
arm the opposition an act of interference in its internal
affairs and a form of support for terrorist groups, it said.  Russia backed Syria’s stance on the “Friends of Syria”
meeting, with Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  saying today that
the gathering in Tunisia was “one-sided” and won’t facilitate
political dialogue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  