-- Australian Dollar Weakens Versus Yen on Concern Greece’s Crisis Unresolved
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-02-27T17:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/australian-n-z-dollars-advance-before-ecb-refinancing-asian-stocks-open.html
Australia ’s dollar slid from a
seven-month high versus the yen amid concern  Greece  will face
continued difficulties in resolving its debt crisis, damping
demand for higher-yielding assets.  The Aussie rose against the dollar as pending home sales in
the U.S. rose more than forecast last month. The appeal of New
Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, was limited after the
nation unexpectedly posted a trade deficit last month.  “The Greek situation is far from concluded,” said Derek Mumford, a director in Sydney at Rochford Capital, a currency-
risk management company. “The Aussie has been perhaps showing
signs of topping out.”  Australia’s dollar lost 0.2 percent to 86.65 yen at 12:05
p.m. New York time. It earlier rose as much as 0.8 percent to
87.48 yen, the highest level since July 8. The Aussie rose 0.7
percent to $1.0771.  New Zealand ’s currency dropped 0.4 percent to 67.60 yen
after earlier reaching 68.35 yen, the strongest level since Aug.
1. The kiwi rallied 0.6 percent to 84.09 U.S. cents.  Germany ’s lower house of parliament approved a second euro-
region Greek bailout package worth 130 billion euros ($174
billion). German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and euro-area leaders
now shift their focus on whether to bolster the region’s bailout
firewall as they prepare for a summit meeting in Brussels on
March 1-2.  G-20 Meeting  Finance ministers and central bankers of the Group of 20
nations meeting in Mexico City this weekend concluded that a
European review of the financial firewall in March is
“essential” before any consideration can be made to boost
resources for the  International Monetary Fund . Progress will be
assessed in April, when officials gather in  Washington  for the
IMF’s spring meetings.  Australia’s dollar has appreciated 2.2 percent this year,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. Its New
Zealand counterpart has gained 5 percent, the best performance
among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by the gauge.  The index of U.S. pending home resales climbed 2 percent
after a 1.9 percent decrease the prior month that was smaller
than previously estimated, the National Association of Realtors
said today in Washington. The median forecast of 44 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 1 percent rise.  The kiwi weakened after a report today showed New Zealand’s
imports exceeded exports by NZ$199 million ($166 million) in
January, from a revised NZ$306 million surplus in December. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey was for a NZ$167
million surplus last month.  “The trade figures were undoubtedly worse than market
expectations,” said  Mike Jones , a foreign-exchange strategist
at  Bank of New Zealand  in Wellington. “The surprise in the
trade numbers looks to have come from some temporary one-offs on
the imports side. We might see the period of kiwi selling
reverse over the rest of the day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  