-- Billabong Rejects TPG $818 Million Offer as Talks Continue for Higher Bid
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-02-27T04:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/billabong-rejects-tpg-s-818m-offer.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) ,
 Australia ’s largest surfwear company, rejected a A$765 million
($817 million) takeover proposal from buyout firm TPG Capital
and said it’s continuing talks to try for a higher offer.  The A$3-a-share cash bid doesn’t reflect the “fundamental
value” of Billabong with a change in control, the  Gold Coast ,
Australia-based company said today. Gordon Merchant, the founder
and largest shareholder with an almost 15 percent stake,
wouldn’t accept that price, Billabong said.  Billabong shares rose above the offer price today, the
first time since it announced the TPG bid on Feb. 17. The
company, whose stock slumped 78 percent in the 12 months before
the bid, is selling assets, cutting jobs and closing as many as
150 stores as it battles stalling consumer demand and  debt 
payments loom.  Shareholders “are taking the view that there’s going to be
another bid,” Andrew McLennan, an equity analyst at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia  in Sydney with a “sell” rating
on Billabong, said by telephone. “Clearly Gordon Merchant is
pivotal. There’s no deal to be done without him.”  Billabong advanced as much as 6.5 percent to A$3.10 and
traded 4.1 percent higher at A$3.03 as of 3:40 p.m. in Sydney.
The shares have surged 69 percent since TPG’s bid was revealed.  Biggest Solo Bid  The proposed takeover is the largest solo bid announced by
 Fort Worth , Texas-based TPG since its $1.65 billion buyout of
blood test-maker Immucor Inc. last July, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It is the biggest deal announced in the
global apparel industry since VF Corp.’s acquisition of the
Timberland Co. last June, the data show.  Any sale may have to be structured such that Merchant
retains a stake in Billabong after the takeover, such as through
a holding vehicle, McLennan said. Unless that’s achieved, it’s
doubtful the company founder will agree to sell even if the
price is raised to as much as A$3.50, according to the analyst.  The offer could be increased to A$3.85 a share and still be
the cheapest comparable clothing sector takeover since at least
1998, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While the talks with TPG continue, it isn’t known whether
they will lead to an improved offer, Billabong said.  The company’s earnings have declined as consumer spending
stalls in the main markets for Billabong, which generated about
65 percent of revenue from the Americas and  Europe  in the first
half. The profit drop has been compounded as a stronger
Australian dollar cuts the value of overseas sales when earnings
are repatriated.  Earnings Drop  First-half  net income  fell 72 percent to A$16.1 million in
the six months ended Dec. 31. That was the smallest half-year
profit since the surfwear maker first sold shares to the public
in 2000. Net debt totaled A$525.6 million.  The Australian dollar has risen 5.6 percent against its
U.S. counterpart in the past 12 months, the second-best
performer among 10 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The TPG proposal didn’t preclude the planned sale of about
half the Nixon watches and accessories business. Billabong plans
to sell 51.5 percent of Nixon to buyout firm Trilantic Capital
Partners and management to raise $285 million for paying debt.  The Nixon sale “has all but solved Billabong’s near-term
debt issues,” Ben Gilbert, an analyst at UBS AG in Sydney,
wrote in a Feb. 17 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  