-- Pakistan Demolishes Bin Laden’s Islamabad Hideout Raided by U.S. Commandos
-- B y   A n w a r   S h a k i r   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-02-26T16:59:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/bin-laden-s-compound-being-razed-as-pakistan-seeks-to-erase-painful-symbol.html
Pakistani authorities demolished
most of the hideout north of Islamabad where U.S. Navy commandos
killed Osama  bin Laden  in May, according to a resident of the
neighborhood and video footage shown on Pakistani TV channels.  Pakistani security forces sealed off the area around the
compound, in the army garrison town of Abbottabad, about 50
kilometers (30 miles) north of the capital. Crews with
excavators and other heavy machinery toppled the concrete
perimeter wall and began tearing down the three-story house in
which Bin Laden was shot dead on the top floor, said Altaf Khan,
whose home is about 200 meters (219 yards) from the compound.  Almost 10 months after Bin Laden’s death, the army’s
failure to detect Bin Laden or the U.S. attack deep inside
Pakistani territory remains an embarrassment, said  Rashid Khan ,
a professor of international relations at the University of
Sargodha in central Pakistan. “The military probably wants to
remove this symbol of their humiliation and the most glaring
example of their intelligence failure,” he said in a phone
interview.  “If it was allowed to remain intact, it would have
continued to attract media attention, which isn’t something the
local authorities can handle,” he said.  Staff members at Pakistan’s army press office declined to
respond to questions about the demolition, and the office of
Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  didn’t return phone calls
seeking comment.  Pakistani Investigation  A four-member commission named by Gilani is investigating
why the army failed to detect bin Laden’s presence or prevent
the U.S. attack.  U.S.-Pakistani relations remain strained because of the
raid and the accusations that followed between officials of the
two governments. American officials, including the then-chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Mike Mullen, accused
 Pakistan ’s army of keeping contacts with violent Islamic
militant groups such as  Afghanistan ’s Taliban movement, which is
fighting U.S.-led troops in neighboring Afghanistan.  Ties between the countries suffered a further setback when
U.S. helicopters killed 26 Pakistani troops on Nov. 25 near the
border with Afghanistan. Pakistan retaliated by closing supply
routes for NATO troops in Afghanistan.  Reinforcement  In Abbottabad, the security forces and demolition crew
began destroying bin Laden’s 1.5-acre compound yesterday
evening, working through the night under bright lights, said
Khan. The compound had dwarfed the nearby houses, its perimeter
walls, of unpainted concrete streaked with black mold, rising as
high as 3.3 meters (11 feet).  “I saw today that the destruction of the boundary walls
was complete and now they are working on the main building,”
Khan said in a phone interview.  The main building was about three-quarters destroyed by
this evening, television footage showed.  The demolition is complicated by the compound’s military-
style construction, notably its heavy use of steel reinforcement
rods in the compound’s walls, said Gauhar Ali, an Abbottabad
civil engineer who last year inspected the structure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anwar Shakir in Peshawar at 
 ashakir1@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  