-- BP Ignored Well Test Warning, Transocean Says on Eve of Trial
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-02-26T04:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/bp-ignored-well-test-warning-before-blast-transocean-says-on-eve-of-trial.html
BP Plc (BP)  officials overseeing the
Macondo well that spewed millions of gallons of oil into the
 Gulf of Mexico  ignored questions about whether safety tests done
hours before a fatal blast on the drilling rig were flawed,
lawyers for  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  said in a court filing.  Donald Vidrine , the senior BP manager on the Deepwater
Horizon rig on April 20, 2010, talked with an engineer about
unsatisfactory well tests less than an hour before an explosion
killed 11 workers on the rig and sent oil pouring into the
waters off  Louisiana , Transocean’s attorneys said in a filing
tied to a trial set for tomorrow with billions of dollars at
stake. Transocean owned the rig and was drilling in a well owned
by BP and other partners.  While  Mark Hafle , a Houston-based BP drilling engineer,
warned Vidrine in a phone call that stability tests on the well
might be flawed, “neither man stopped work” at the facility,
Transocean officials said in the Feb. 24 filing. The BP officials
allowed crews to continue displacing drilling fluid in the well
with seawater, company lawyers said in the filing. Once the fluid
was removed, the lighter seawater couldn’t stop natural gas from
leaking into the well, leading to the explosion, the filing said.  The filing came three days before BP, Transocean, the U.S.
government and plaintiffs suing over the  oil spill  are scheduled
to begin a trial in New Orleans to apportion blame for the
disaster and determine exposure to punitive damages.  $26 Billion  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier , who will hear the case
without a jury, is to rule whether BP should get help from the
other firms involved in paying the $26 billion in costs
associated with the disaster and its resulting offshore spill,
the largest in U.S. history.  Scott Dean , a spokesman for London-based BP, declined to
comment yesterday on the Transocean filing. Mitchell Lansden, a
lawyer for Hafle, didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment late yesterday.  Vidrine has refused to testify about his actions on the
rig, citing medical-related problems. His lawyer, Robert N.
Habans Jr., didn’t immediately return phone and e-mail messages
yesterday seeking comment on the filing.  The Macondo well blowout sent almost 5 million barrels of
oil into the gulf over more than 80 days, according to a U.S.
government report issued in September.  The accident spawned hundreds of lawsuits against BP and
its partners, including Vernier, Switzerland-based Transocean,
and Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing
services for the well.  The lawsuits include pollution claims by federal and state
governments and consolidated cases brought by thousands of
commercial fishermen, seafood processors, property owners and
tourism-related businesses.  ‘Key Source’  Transocean officials have urged Barbier to force Vidrine to
testify, calling him in court filings a “key source of
information regarding critical events and operations that
occurred immediately prior to the blowout.”  Barbier ruled this month that Vidrine must be examined by
an independent doctor to determine whether he should be required
to give a deposition in the case.  Hafle also has refused to testify after invoking his
constitutional protections against self-incrimination,
Transocean’s lawyers said in court filings.  ‘Adverse Inferences’  In the filing laying out Vidrine’s call to Hafle the night
of the explosion, Transocean’s lawyers asked Barbier to allow
them to draw “adverse inferences” against BP during the trial
over Hafle’s refusal to testify.  “The fact that BP’s on-shore drilling engineer and well
site leader disregarded then negative pressure test results is
critical to establishing that key BP personnel failed to stop
work despite having knowledge of the unsatisfactory test
results,” Transocean’s lawyers said in the filing.  Barbier initially set the first phase of tomorrow’s trial
as a limitation-of-liability action under U.S. maritime law. The
three-month proceeding was to consider Transocean’s effort to
cap its financial exposure over the spill under an 1851 law
designed to protect ship owners.  The judge later expanded the trial to include claims of
fault for the disaster against all defendants, as well as
pollution claims brought by federal and state officials.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in New Orleans at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  