-- BP Gulf Spill Trial Delayed to Allow for Settlement Talks
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2012-02-27T00:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/bp-plaintiffs-committee-say-spill-trial-delayed-to-march-5-for-more-talks.html
The BP Plc trial over liability for
the explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig and the
Gulf of Mexico  oil spill  that followed was delayed until March 5
as settlement negotiations continue, according to court records.  The one-week postponement of tomorrow’s scheduled start of
a multibillion-dollar trial over who is to blame for the
accident and spill is to allow for negotiations to reach a
settlement to “fairly compensate people and businesses,” BP
and lawyers for the plaintiffs said in a joint statement.  “There can be no assurance that these discussions will
lead to a settlement agreement,” according to the statement.
“A further announcement will be made as appropriate.”  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans is
scheduled to oversee the first phase of the case against London-
based  BP (BP)  and other companies over the blast that killed 11
workers and caused the largest offshore oil spill in U.S.
history. In his order today delaying the trial, Barbier cited
“reasons of judicial efficiency and to allow the parties to
make further progress in their settlement discussions.”  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout sent more than 4
million barrels of oil spewing into the gulf over 87 days,
according to a U.S. government report issued in September.  The accident spawned hundreds of lawsuits against BP and
its partners, including  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Vernier,
Switzerland-based owner and operator of the drilling rig, and
Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing services
on the facility.  Fishing, Tourism  The lawsuits include pollution claims by federal and state
governments and consolidated cases brought by thousands of
commercial fishermen, seafood processors, property owners and
tourism-related businesses harmed by the spill.  BP has been in settlement talks with the federal
government, plaintiffs suing over the spill and other companies
facing liability in the cases for months, people familiar the
discussions have said.  Barbier, who will hear the case without a jury, is to rule
whether London-based BP should get help from the other firms
involved in paying the $26 billion in costs associated with the
sinking of the Deepwater Horizon and the spill. If there isn’t a
deal reached by all sides, the judge will determine whether the
companies must pay punitive damages to thousands of business and
property owners, and fines to the government for polluting the
 Gulf of Mexico .  ‘Significant Progress’  The trial delay may indicate “there has been significant
progress in settlement talks and it may not be necessary to have
a trial, or at least a trial as currently configured,” David Uhlmann, a  University of Michigan  law professor and former chief
of the U.S. Justice Department’s environmental crime section,
said today in a phone interview.  Any agreement will probably focus on claims filed by
lawyers for federal and state governments, though it could also
be broader, Uhlmann said.  “The delay indicates the judge believes there is some
good-faith bargaining going on,”  Carl Tobias , who teaches
product-liability and mass-tort law at the  University of
Richmond  in  Virginia , said today in a phone interview.  ‘Moving Parts’  “I think a global settlement is very unlikely to be
consummated in the next day or two,” Tobias said. “There’s
just too many moving parts. The real question is can they do it 
all in a week or will they just be able to settle parts of it.”  David Nicholas, a BP spokesman, declined to comment on the
trial delay or settlement negotiations. Wyn Hornbuckle, a U.S.
Justice Department spokesman, said, “We have no comment and
refer you to the order just issued by the court.”  Beverly Stafford, a Halliburton spokeswoman, had no
immediate comment on the trial delay.  “This delay doesn’t change the facts of the case and
Transocean is still fully prepared to go to trial,” Lou Colasuonno, a spokesman for the company, said today in a phone
interview.  The cases over economic and environmental damage were
initially consolidated before Barbier, who has scheduled a
three-phase trial. In the first phase, he will determine which
companies share blame for the explosion, and whether any of them
engaged in gross negligence or willful misconduct.  Such a finding might trigger punitive damages -- awards
meant to punish the liable parties rather than compensate
victims for losses -- to be paid to non-government plaintiffs.  Enhanced Penalties  Those companies sued by the federal government would face
enhanced penalties under the U.S. Clean Water Act. That law lets
the government seek fines of as much as $1,100 for each barrel
of oil spilled as a result of simple negligence, often described
as a failure to exercise ordinary care. The maximum increases to
$4,300 a barrel for gross negligence, or a conscious act or
omission, leaving BP liable for as much as $17.6 billion in
fines. The London-based company set aside $3.5 billion to pay
Clean Water Act fines based on its own lower estimate of barrels
spilled and no finding of gross negligence.  Barbier on Feb. 22 held BP and Anadarko automatically
liable under the act, allowing the U.S. to seek $1,100 a barrel
spilled. Transocean’s liability is to be determined at trial.  On Feb. 24, Transocean alleged in a court filing that BP
officials overseeing the Macondo well ignored questions about
whether safety tests done hours before the blast were flawed.  Well Tests  Donald Vidrine , the senior BP manager on the Deepwater
Horizon on April 20, 2010, talked with an engineer about
unsatisfactory well tests less than an hour before the
explosion, Transocean’s attorneys said. While Mark Hafle, a
Houston-based BP drilling engineer, warned Vidrine in a phone
call that stability tests on the well might be flawed, “neither
man stopped work” at the facility, Transocean said.  Scott Dean ,
a BP spokesman, declined to comment yesterday on the Transocean
filing.  The judge is to conduct two subsequent nonjury proceedings
on the size of the spill and efforts to contain it. Jury trials
on damages to victims would follow, he has said. The outcomes
might provide a template for settlement of the remaining cases,
some of which might be distributed to other courts.  Barbier wouldn’t postpone the trial unless he saw progress
toward a settlement, said Tulane University law professor Ed
Sherman, who specializes in complex litigation.  “The judge really would want a genuine expectation of
settlement and I assume he got that,” Sherman said. “He set a
very tight deadline. He set a tough schedule -- 8 a.m. to 6
p.m., Monday through Thursday. He would not lightly agree to a
delay unless he feels there is a genuine hope of an agreement.”  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in New Orleans, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  