-- Tombini Says He’ll Keep Cutting Selic as Survey Shows Rates Can’t Curb CPI
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2012-02-27T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/brazil-will-continue-cutting-interest-rates-tombini-says.html
A Brazilian central bank survey
showing  interest rate  levels are inconsistent with the country’s
inflation target won’t alter policy makers’ strategy of lowering
borrowing costs further, bank President Alexandre Tombini said.  The so-called “neutral” rate of interest needed to keep
inflation on target with the economy growing at a sustainable
pace is 5.5 percent, according to the median estimate in the
survey of economists published Feb. 23. That is higher than the
current inflation-adjusted interest rate of 4.3 percent.  “I think it will have little impact on the monetary
authority’s strategy,” Tombini said, referring to the survey’s
results. He spoke to reporters yesterday in Mexico City, where
he’s attending a meeting of finance officials from the Group of
20 richest nations.  Tombini reiterated that there is a high chance the central
bank will cut the benchmark interest rate to less than 10
percent this year, from the current 10.5 percent. The bank’s
monetary policy committee next meets March 6-7.  “This strategy hasn’t changed until now,” he said.  Since August, the policy makers have cut the Selic rate
four times, reduced taxes and pledged to boost public
investments to ensure growth of 4.5 percent this year. The
stimulus has raised concerns among economists that Tombini may
fail to fulfill his pledge to slow  inflation  to the bank’s 4.5
percent target this year. Consumer prices rose 6.22 percent in
January from a year ago.  Declining Trend  The real neutral interest rate was 6.75 percent in November
2010, according to the median forecast in a previous central
bank survey. Brazil has the highest real interest rate in the
Group of 20 Nations.  Tombini said that perhaps more important than the decline
in the neutral rate since the bank’s last survey is the fact
that most analysts expect it to fall even further in the next
two years.  “This process hasn’t ended according to the people we
consulted,” he said, adding that the analysts’ perception is
consistent with the bank’s current rate-cutting strategy.  Inflation slowed to 6.22 percent in January, from 6.5
percent. Analysts expect consumer prices to rise 5.24 percent
this year and 5.02 percent next year, according to the median
forecast in a Feb. 17 bank survey.  Tombini reiterated that the central bank will continue to
buy dollars and act in the foreign exchange futures market
whenever necessary.  Brazil ’s real has gained 9.2 percent this
year, more than all 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Mexico City at  agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  