-- Buffett Is ‘On the Prowl’ for Acquisitions as Cash Hoard Climbs
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-02-26T05:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/buffett-is-on-the-prowl-for-berkshire-acquisitions-as-cash-hoard-climbs.html
Warren Buffett , chairman and chief
executive officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said he’s “on the
prowl” for large acquisitions after record earnings at the
company’s railroad and energy units helped build cash holdings.  Berkshire’s  cash hoard  increased to $37.3 billion on Dec.
31 from $34.8 billion three months earlier, the Omaha, Nebraska-
based company said yesterday in it its annual report. Fourth-
quarter net income declined 30 percent to $3.05 billion on
smaller gains from Buffett’s derivative bets.  Berkshire is seeking “to purchase some large operations
that will give us a further boost,” the billionaire said in his
 annual letter  to shareholders included in the report. “We now
have eight subsidiaries that would each be included in the
Fortune 500 were they stand-alone companies. That leaves only
492 to go. My task is clear, and I’m on the prowl.”  Buffett, 81, has spent more than $35 billion in cash and
stock on  takeovers  since the end of 2009 including the purchases
of railroad Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  and engine-additives
maker Lubrizol Corp., both of which had record operating
earnings last year. Buffett is focusing on acquisitions and
buying publicly traded  stocks  because current yields on bonds,
he said, aren’t enough to compensate for the risk of inflation.  Toolmaker Iscar Metalworking, industrial conglomerate
Marmon Group and power producer  MidAmerican Energy Holdings (329802Q) 
combined with Lubrizol and the railroad to produce pretax profit
of more than $9 billion last year. All were acquired in the past
12 years as Buffett expanded beyond insurance.  ‘Fabulous Five’  “Unless the economy weakens in 2012, each of our fabulous
five should again set a record, with aggregate earnings
comfortably topping $10 billion,” said Buffett.  The economy is in a “steady and substantial comeback”
that has eluded the housing market, he wrote. Buffett said the
creation of new households will eventually increase demand for
homes, though he was “dead wrong” with his prediction in early
2011 that a recovery would begin within a year or so.  Pretax profit  in 2011 at Berkshire’s carpet-maker Shaw,
insulation provider Johns Manville, Acme Brick and MiTek, a
maker of building products, was $513 million compared with $1.8
billion in 2006 before the housing slump.  Full-year net income slipped to $10.3 billion from $13
billion in 2010 as insurance underwriting profit fell 88 percent
to $154 million. Natural disasters including flooding in
 Thailand  and the tsunami in  Japan  fueled claims costs in 2011.  Buffett has used his annual reports to promote his company
as a potential acquirer. Berkshire can act quickly on a deal,
provide capital to target firms and allow managers the freedom
to supervise the operations they built, he has said.  Wells Fargo  Buffett assembled more than 70 operating businesses selling
everything from ice cream to underwear and has said Berkshire
needs more takeovers as the firm generates about $1 billion a
month in net income. He acquired Lubrizol in 2011 for about $9
billion after saying in last year’s letter that “our elephant
gun has been reloaded, and my trigger finger is itchy.”  Buffett also accumulated a stake of more than $10 billion
in  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and invested $5 billion
for preferred shares and warrants in  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the
lender led by CEO  Brian T. Moynihan  since early 2010. Berkshire
was already the largest stockholder in rival  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   “The banking industry is back on its feet, and Wells Fargo
is prospering,” Buffett wrote. “At Bank of America, some huge
mistakes were made by prior management. Brian Moynihan has made
excellent progress in cleaning these up, though the completion
of that process will take a number of years.”  Weschler, Combs  Buffett said that Ted Weschler and Todd Combs, former hedge
fund managers hired in the past two years to help pick stocks,
will both assist the next Berkshire CEO in evaluating potential
acquisitions.  “They have excellent business minds that grasp the
economic forces likely to determine the future of a wide variety
of businesses,” he wrote. “They are aided in their thinking by
an understanding of what is predictable and what is
unknowable.”  Buffett and Vice Chairman Charles Munger, 88, are preparing
Berkshire for its next generation of leaders. Buffett said in
the letter that the board is “enthusiastic about my successor
as CEO,” without identifying the person.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  