-- HTC Tells Analysts Seeing Sales Drop to Mind Information ‘Gap’
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-02-27T10:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/htc-ceo-tells-analysts-to-mind-information-gap-.html
HTC Corp. (2498)  Chief Executive Officer
Peter Chou said analysts forecasting the biggest sales drop on
record are lacking sufficient information about the product
lineup of  Asia ’s second-largest smartphone maker.  “We respect peoples’ opinions, they have an opinion based
on what they see, that’s fine, but they don’t know what we’re
working on,” Chou said in an interview yesterday at the  Mobile
World Congress  in Barcelona. “So there’s always a gap.”  HTC, once one of the most-fancied smartphone makers among
analysts, has missed revenue estimates in three straight
quarters because of competition from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and
 Samsung (005930)  Electronic Co.’s Galaxy handsets. Chou, one of the
smartphone maker’s founders, presented the multimedia-focused
HTC One smartphone series to help claw back market share.  “They were in heaven because they felt they were the king
of the hill - growing extremely fast, over 100 percent growth
rates year on year and they thought it would last forever,”
said IDC researcher Francisco Jeronimo. “But it won’t. The
market changed very quickly.”  HTC in October forecast fourth-quarter sales below average
analyst estimates after already missing in the prior period. The
maker of Sensation and Desire handsets cut that outlook less
than a month later before forecasting revenue this quarter that
also fell below the average of estimates.  Shenzhen Duo  HTC has gained 27 percent this year, after dropping 42
percent in 2011. The Taipei stock exchange is closed today for
holiday. Twelve of 35 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg recommend
investors sell HTC, compared with eight who say “buy.”  Shenzhen-based rival  ZTE Corp. (000063)  is also trying to grab a
larger share of the growing market for smartphones and tablet
computers. The company, which unveiled eight handsets in
Barcelona today, has a target to become the third-biggest maker
of mobile devices this year after reaching the No. 4 spot in the
most recent quarter, said He Shiyou, a ZTE board member.  Huawei Technologies Co., also based in Shenzhen, may triple
the number of smartphones it delivers to 60 million this year as
it takes aim at the iPhone and new handsets by  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , said
Richard Yu, chairman of the company’s devices unit. Huawei
yesterday unveiled the Ascend D quad handset, calling it “the
world’s fastest smartphone.” The device will cost 15 percent to
20 percent less than “comparable phones.”  ‘Hero’ Phones  HTC’s sales will drop 32 percent this quarter from a year
earlier to NT$70.7 billion, according to the average of 21
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest
year-on-year revenue drop since it listed on the Taiwan stock
exchange ten years ago.  Chou said the company has signed up 144 wireless operators
for the new device series, which features continuous photo
shooting, quick shutter speeds and sound-file management
software.  Chou last year opened up Studio, a new division in the
company tasked with developing “hero” products that will
represent the HTC brand and recapture the glory of top sellers
such as HTC Desire which was released two years ago. HTC’s
strategy will focus more on specific customer groups, especially
ones desiring multi-media functions, he said.  “We believe different people want different things, one
size doesn’t fit all,” Chou said. “That’s why we created a
series of HTC One products, because they deliver awesome
experiences, amazing camera and authentic sound.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Barcelona at  crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tighe  at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 