-- Caltex Australia Swings to Full-Year Loss on Refinery Charge
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-02-27T06:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/caltex-australia-swings-to-full-year-loss-on-refinery-charges.html
Caltex Australia Ltd. (CTX) , the nation’s
biggest oil refiner, swung to a full-year net loss after Asian
competition and a strong Australian dollar forced it to write
down the value of its plants by A$1.5 billion ($1.6 billion).  The company had a loss of A$714 million in the 12 months
ended Dec. 31, compared with net income of A$317 million a year
earlier, the Sydney-based company said today in a statement.
Profit, excluding the effect of changes in  oil prices  and one-
time items, fell 17 percent to A$264 million.  Caltex, half-owned by  San Ramon , California-based  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) , is considering closing its two refineries after
completing a review of the assets in about six months, the
company said Feb. 16. The operator of the Kurnell refinery in
Sydney and the Lytton refinery in Brisbane flagged earlier this
month it would write down the value of those assets.  “The recent deterioration in the performance of the
refining business unit due to the challenging external
environment, including the ongoing strength of the Australian
dollar, lower refiner margins and increasing costs, is expected
to be sustained for a prolonged period,” Caltex said today.  The shares  dropped 0.6 percent to close at A$12.90 in
Sydney trading, while  Australia ’s benchmark index dropped 0.9
percent. Caltex has gained 9.6 percent this year.  Marketing Growth  The Caltex plants are among seven oil refineries in
Australia, with others operated by Royal Dutch Shell Plc,  BP Plc (BP/) 
and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  Shell,  Europe ’s largest oil company, said
last year that it would halt refining operations at its Clyde
plant in Sydney before mid-2013, saying it was no longer
competitive against Asian “mega-refineries.”  Caltex’s full-year earnings before interest and tax for its
marketing business climbed more than 20 percent, driven by
growth in sales of premium petrol, diesel and jet fuel. The
division has posted an annual growth rate of more than 13
percent since 2007, Caltex said.  “The marketing business has had a fairly lengthy trend of
volume growth and earnings growth,” Chief Financial Officer
Simon Hepworth told reporters on a call. “Without promising
that’s going to continue, it is reasonable to look at the
historical trend. It’s a business with lots of opportunities.”  Caltex forecasts capital spending of between A$375 million
and A$450 million in 2012, with most of the money earmarked for
marketing. That compares with A$342 million in 2011. Caltex
plans to allocate the funds to improving its retail stores,
further developing infrastructure to distribute its products and
seeking “smaller” acquisitions, Hepworth said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  