-- China May Double Rare Earth Exports as Demand Rebounds
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-27T21:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/china-may-double-rare-earth-exports-as-overseas-demand-rebounds-on-price.html
China, the biggest supplier of rare
earths, may almost double exports this year and meet quotas set
by the government as lower prices stimulate demand.  Chinese exports were 49 percent of the government-alloted
quota in the first 11 months of last year because the slowing
global economy sapped demand, the Ministry of Commerce said in a
Dec. 27  statement . Overseas sales quotas may be virtually
unchanged this year at 31,130 metric tons, based on Bloomberg
calculations.  “Export quotas may be met this year as overseas demand
recovers,” Wang Caifeng, a former official overseeing the rare-
earth industry with the Ministry of Industry and  Information
Technology , said in an interview in Beijing. “High prices last
year had deterred purchases and led to inventories’ depletion.
Smuggling also hampered exports through illegal channels.”  Rare-earths prices have tumbled since the third quarter as
consumers, including makers of electric cars and wind turbines,
reduced use. The average price of lanthanum oxide, a rare earth
used in rechargeable batteries and refining catalysts, was
129,167 yuan ($20,500) a ton in the fourth quarter, 15 percent
less than in the third quarter, according to data from Shanghai
Steelhome Information.  Rare-Earth Shares Fall  Molycorp Inc. (MCP) , the owner of the largest rare-earth deposit
outside of China, fell 3.1 percent to close at $25.99 in  New
York . Lynas Corp., developer of the world’s largest rare-earths
refinery, fell 4.7 percent to A$1.23 in Sydney.  China produces at least 90 percent of the world’s rare
earths, used in  Boeing Co. (BA)  helicopter blades and  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  hybrid cars. The nation has curbed output and exports of
rare earths since 2009, when quotas were set at 50,145 tons, to
conserve mining resources and protect the environment.  Cutting exports boosted prices and sparked concern among
overseas users about access to supplies. China halted some mines
last year to curb overcapacity, cut illegal mining and improve
environmental standards.  The Chinese government allocated 10,546 tons of first-round
export quotas to nine companies, including China Minmetals Corp.
and  Sinosteel Corp (SINOSZ) ., that met the government’s environmental
protection standards, the ministry said.  Export Licenses  Another 14,358 tons may be granted to 17 other companies,
including Baotou Iron & Steel Group,  China ’s biggest producer,
that weren’t granted an export license for this year, it said.
Baotou is one of 21 smelters waiting for approval, it said.  “Baotou will be able to get the license to resume exports
this year,” Wang said. “It’s just a matter of time as it takes
a while for the government to review the company’s environmental
improvement.”  Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth Hi-Tech Co., the
rare-earth unit of Baotou Iron & Steel Group, has yet to receive
approval to resume exports, a company spokesman, who declined to
be identified because of company policy, said today by phone
without providing any further details.  Baotou Steel Rare Earth gained 2.6 percent to 51.50 yuan
today in  Shanghai , beating a 0.4 percent gain in the benchmark
Shanghai Composite Index.  China is encouraging its companies to develop rare-earth
mines abroad to help ease pressure on domestic producers, Wang
said. China has the technical expertise and human resources
required by overseas company in mine development and processing,
she said.  Buying Mines  Australia ’s Lynas and Greenwood Village, Colorado-based
Molycorp. should cooperate with China, including allowing
Chinese groups to buy stakes in their mines, said Wang, who’s
overseen the industry for more than 30 years.  Australia blocked China’s bid in 2009 to gain control of
the world’s richest rare-earth deposit on concern it would
threaten supply to non-Chinese buyers. State-owned China Non-
Ferrous Metal Mining (Group) Co. in May 2009 offered A$252
million ($271 million) for a 51.6 percent stake in  Lynas Corp. (LYC) ,
which needed cash to resume development of the Mount Weld rare-
earth mine in  Western Australia .  “It was a loss to Australia, not to China.” Wang said,
“They should be more open-minded.”  China’s full-year export quota for rare earths this year is
expected to be about 31,130 tons, according to Bloomberg News
calculations based on first-round quota figures given by the
commerce ministry on Dec. 27. The quota was 30,184 tons in 2011
and 30,258 tons in 2010.  Wang is helping form a rare-earth association in China,
which is expected to start in the second quarter and will be
funded by industry companies, she said. The association will
help the government’s planning and drafting rules for the
industry, she said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  