-- China’s Billionaire People’s Congress Makes Capitol Hill Look Like Pauper
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-27T07:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/china-s-billionaire-lawmakers-make-u-s-peers-look-like-paupers.html
The richest 70 members of  China ’s
legislature added more to their wealth last year than the
combined  net worth  of all 535 members of the U.S. Congress, the
president and his Cabinet, and the nine Supreme Court justices.  The net worth of the 70 richest delegates in China’s
National People’s Congress, which opens its annual session on
March 5, rose to 565.8 billion yuan ($89.8 billion) in 2011, a
gain of $11.5 billion from 2010, according to figures from the
Hurun Report, which tracks the country’s wealthy. That compares
to the $7.5 billion net worth of all 660 top officials in the
three branches of the U.S. government.  The income gain by NPC members reflects the imbalances in
economic growth in China, where per capita annual income in 2010
was $2,425, less than in Belarus and a fraction of the $37,527
in the U.S. The disparity points to the challenges that China’s
new generation of leaders, to be named this year, faces in
countering a rise in social unrest fueled by illegal land grabs
and corruption.  “It is extraordinary to see this degree of a marriage of
wealth and politics,” said  Kenneth Lieberthal , director of the
John L. Thornton China Center at  Washington ’s  Brookings
Institution . “It certainly lends vivid texture to the
widespread complaints in China about an extreme inequality of
wealth in the country now.”  Most Powerful  The National People’s Congress, whose annual meeting will
run for a week and a half, is legally the highest governmental
body in China. While the legislature, with about 3,000 members,
is often derided as a rubberstamp parliament, its members are
some of China’s most powerful politicians and executives,
wielding power in their home provinces and weighing in on
proposals such as whether to impose a nationwide property tax.  “The NPC is not exactly what you would call a center of
power, but being on it certainly gets you deeply engaged in the
political system,” Lieberthal said.  Hurun, a Shanghai-based publisher of magazines targeted at
the Chinese luxury consumer, uses publicly available information
such as corporate filings to compile its annual list of the
richest people in China. It then cross-checks that data with the
government’s list of NPC members.  Zong Qinghou, chairman of beverage-maker  Hangzhou Wahaha
Group (HWGZ)  and China’s second-richest person, with a family fortune
of 68 billion yuan, is a member. So is Wu Yajun, chairwoman of
Beijing-based  Longfor Properties (LHREZ)  Co. She has family wealth of 42
billion yuan, according to the Hurun Report.  Jiang’s Pushing  Former President  Jiang Zemin  pushed for the inclusion of
wealthy private entrepreneurs into the Communist Party a decade
ago. Now they have regular access to top party leaders who are
also NPC members.  The third-richest person in the NPC, auto-parts magnate Lu
Guanqiu, traveled with Vice President  Xi Jinping  to the U.S.
during his official visit this month, attending a meeting with
Vice President Joseph Biden and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  in Washington on Feb. 14.  “The rich in China have strong incentive to become ‘within
system’ due to the relative weakness in the rule of law and of
property rights,” Victor Shih, a professor at Evanston,
Illinois-based Northwestern University who studies Chinese
politics and finance, wrote in an e-mail. Being a member of the
NPC “means that one’s commercial or political rival cannot
easily throw one in jail or confiscate one’s property.”  Richest Woman  Wu, who is China’s richest woman, doesn’t give media
interviews, her spokeswoman said. Lu wasn’t available for an
interview, his spokesman said. Zong wouldn’t comment on the
makeup of the NPC because that’s a matter determined by the
central government, Wahaha spokesman Shan Qining said in a phone
interview.  Many of the NPC’s richest members, including Longfor’s Wu,
are executives in real estate, a sector that has spurred
protests and contributed to the rising wealth gap between city
dwellers and farmers.  A land grab by a property developer in Wukan, a fishing
town in southern China’s Guangdong province, sparked protests in
December that resulted in the expulsion of its Communist Party
leaders. Premier  Wen Jiabao  has pledged to crack down on such
land grabs and work to ease wealth disparities.  China’s top political leaders, including President Hu
Jintao and Wen, don’t disclose their personal finances or those
of their families.  Chinese private executives such as Zong and Lu have built
their fortunes on the back of economic growth that has  averaged 
10.1 percent in the last 30 years. The  U.S. economy  expanded by
an average annual rate of 2.7 percent in the same period.  Out Of Poverty  Regular Chinese have also benefited from the growth of
 China’s economy , which surpassed  Japan  as the world’s second
biggest in 2010. Since introducing free-market policies, China
has lifted 300 million of its 1.3 billion citizens out of
poverty, according to the  United Nations .  Annual growth of per capita GDP in China was 9.8 percent at
the end of 2010. Per capita GDP has more than doubled since
2000, according to the  World Bank .  The wealth gap between legislatures holds with
statistically comparable samples. The richest 2 percent of the
NPC -- 60 people -- had an average wealth of $1.44 billion per
person. The richest 2 percent of Congress -- 11 members -- had
an average wealth of $323 million.  The U.S. figures come from a downloadable database on the
 website  of the Washington-based Center for Responsive Politics.
The U.S. figures are inflated because the database includes
members of Congress who were retired or defeated in the 2010
elections as well as their replacements.  Issa’s Wealth  The wealth of members of Congress did increase at a higher
rate than that of their Chinese peers in the most recent
disclosures as U.S. equity markets outperformed China’s. The
average wealth of the richest 2 percent of Congress rose 22
percent in 2010 from 2009. The Standard and Poor’s 500 Index
 rose  12.8 percent in 2010.  The wealth of the top 2 percent of NPC delegates rose 13
percent in the 2011 Hurun list following a 14.3 percent  fall  in
the Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index in 2010 and a
further 21.7 percent drop last year.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng
dropped 20 percent in 2011 and the Shenzhen Composite fell 33
percent in the same period.  The wealthiest member of the  U.S. Congress  is
Representative  Darrell Issa , the California Republican who had a
maximum wealth of $700.9 million in 2010, according to the
center. If he were in China’s NPC, he would be ranked 40th. Per
capita income in China is about one-sixth the U.S. level when
adjusted for differences in purchasing power.  ‘Cozy Relationship’  Financial disclosure forms ask lawmakers and other top U.S.
officials to list the value of their individual assets in
ranges, such as $1,001 to $15,000 or $1,000,001 to $5,000,000.
Bloomberg News used the maximum range of wealth on the U.S.
disclosures to compare with the Chinese NPC.  Rupert Hoogewerf , chairman and chief researcher for the
Hurun Report, estimates that for every Chinese billionaire the
company discovers for its list, there is another one it misses,
meaning the gap between the wealth of China’s NPC and the U.S.
Congress may be greater still.  “The prevalence of billionaires in the NPC shows the cozy
relationship between the wealthy and the Communist Party,” said
Bruce Jacobs, a professor of Asian languages and studies at
 Monash University  in  Melbourne ,  Australia . “In all levels of
the system there seem to be local officials in cahoots with
entrepreneurs, enriching themselves, and this has led to a lot
of the demonstrations.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  