-- Colombia’s FARC Rebel Group Promises to Free Hostages, End Acts of Ransom
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-02-26T18:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/colombia-s-farc-rebel-group-promises-to-free-hostages-end-acts-of-ransom.html
Colombia ’s largest rebel group has
promised to stop kidnappings for ransom and will release the
remaining four hostages it holds in captivity following the
death of its leader Alfonso Cano in November.  “We wish to express our feelings of admiration for the
families of the soldiers and police in our power,” according to
a  statement  from the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or
FARC, a copy of which was on the website of Anncol, a news
service where the group’s statements are often published.
“They never lost faith.”  The FARC’s ruling council signed the Feb. 26 statement,
which they say was published from the mountains of Colombia. The
statement comes after the FARC in December agreed to release six
hostages, some of whom had been held in captivity for more than
a decade.  The group, in the statement, said it doesn’t agree to end
hostilities or the taking prisoners of war, and says government
decisions to increase military spending will prolong their
decades-old conflict. The FARC called on the government to free
“political prisoners” as part of a new way of ending the
conflict.  “We appreciate the FARC’s announcement that it will
renounce kidnapping as an important and needed step, but it’s
not enough,” President  Juan Manuel Santos  said from his Twitter
account.  The FARC, which is classified as a terrorist organization
by the U.S. and the European Union, was founded in 1964 as a
rural, Marxist insurgency.  Cano, whose real name was Guillermo Saenz, began leading
the FARC after the movement’s founder, Manuel Marulanda, died of
a heart attack in 2008. Cano was killed during a firefight as
troops and police closed in on his camp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  