-- Oil Drops From Nine-Month High After IMF Warns on Global Economic Growth
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-02-27T07:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/crude-oil-declines-in-new-york-trading-brent-little-changed-in-london.html
Oil fell from the highest level in
more than nine months as investors speculated prices may have
climbed too far after the  International Monetary Fund  warned
that the global economy is still at risk of a slowdown.  Futures slid as much as 0.5 percent in New York after seven
days of gains. Oil’s relative strength index signaled that the
longest winning streak since January 2010 may have been
exaggerated. The world economy is “not out of the danger zone”
amid fragile financial systems, high debt and rising world  oil
prices , IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said. Prices
gained the most in two months last week as sanctions tightened
against Iran, OPEC’s second-biggest producer.  “The market is taking a bit of profit,” said  Jonathan Barratt , chief executive of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity
markets newsletter in Sydney. “There’s still a lot of
uncertainty. The market is still concerned about what will
happen with  Iran .”  Oil for April delivery fell as much as 58 cents to $109.19
a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange and was at $109.28 at 3:46 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract gained 1.8 percent to $109.77 on Feb. 24, the highest
close since May 3. Prices increased 6.3 percent last week and
are 13 percent higher the past year.  Brent oil for April settlement declined 90 cents to $124.57
on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European
benchmark contract’s  premium  to New York-traded West Texas
Intermediate was at $15.29, compared with $15.70 on Feb. 24 and
a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Relative Strength  New York  crude’s 14-day relative strength index climbed to
76.9 on Feb. 24, the highest since April, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A reading above 70 indicates futures have
risen too quickly and further gains aren’t sustainable.
Investors tend to sell contracts when prices are considered
overbought. Today’s RSI is around 75.  Group of 20 nations must strengthen their economies against
further shocks including higher crude prices, Lagarde said after
a meeting of the G-20 in Mexico City. Higher oil prices may push
inflation in  South Korea , the world’s fifth-largest oil
importer, above the government’s target and have a “far-
reaching impact” on the economy, Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan
said at the meeting.  The G-20 rebuffed German-led calls to help  Europe  fight its
debt crisis, saying any decision on outside aid hinges on the
euro area delivering more financial firepower within two months.
Progress will be assessed in April, when officials gather in
Washington for the IMF’s spring meetings, the G-20 said in a
statement.  Iran Threat  German lawmakers vote on a second Greek rescue package
today. Europe’s biggest economy is also weighing whether to
agree to beef up the region’s financial backstop to a potential
750 billion euros ($1 trillion) at a March 1-2 European summit.  Oil has advanced 11 percent this year amid concern that
sanctions against  Iran’s nuclear program  will disrupt crude
supplies from the second-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum-Exporting Countries. Iran has threatened to shut the
 Strait of Hormuz , a transit route for a fifth of the world’s
oil, in response to an embargo.  Russian Prime Minister and presidential front-runner
 Vladimir Putin  warned Western leaders against a military strike
on Iran. Russia is concerned that there is a “growing threat”
of action against Iran that would be “truly catastrophic,” he
said in the latest of a series of articles published before
Russia’s March 4 elections.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators raised wagers on
rising prices 11 percent in the week ended Feb. 21, according to
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of
Traders report. Bets increased 26 percent over two weeks, the
biggest gain since March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  