-- Dubai’s Power Use Will Grow 4% as Emirate Plans Carbon Cuts
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-02-26T14:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/dubai-s-power-use-will-grow-4-as-emirate-plans-carbon-cuts.html
Dubai’s power demand is set to grow
this year at a rate in line with the Persian Gulf emirate’s
economy, or about 4 percent, as the city develops a plan to cut
emissions.  The emirate plans to survey its carbon dioxide emissions
from energy and industrial production in a study this year,
Saeed Mohammed  Al Tayer , vice chairman of the Dubai Supreme
Council of Energy, said today. Dubai will use the study to
estimate a baseline figure for emissions that it will use to
plan cuts in the release of the gas, he said.  The emirate may trade credits linked to emission
reductions, depending on future international climate change
rules, Al Tayer said at a press conference today. Al Tayer, who
is also managing director of Dubai Electricity & Water
Authority, spoke at the utility’s offices in the city.  DEWA, as the utility is known, is still evaluating bids
from companies seeking to join it in a partnership to build a
1,500-megawatt natural-gas-fired power plant, Al Tayer said.
Dubai has enough flexibility in natural gas import contracts to
secure sufficient supply of fuel to cover current demand and the
needs for the new power unit, Nejib Zaafrani, chief executive of
the Supreme Council of Energy said.  Dubai is also expanding production of solar energy. The
emirate currently has about 4.5 megawatts of generation from
individually installed capacity, Zaafrani said.  The utility will build a 10-megawatt solar plant by the end
of 2013 and has hired consultants to help with the project, said
Waleed Salman, vice president for business development at the
utility.  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA’s Tractebel engineering unit is developing
the regulations and procedures for connecting solar plants to
Dubai’s power grid and ILF Consulting Engineers will help plan
the plant as well as the expansion of a planned solar park with
a forecast 1,000-megawatt capacity, Salman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  