-- Egypt-U.S. Talks Said to Seek End to Prosecution of Detained Aid Workers
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-02-26T01:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/egypt-u-s-talks-said-to-seek-end-to-prosecution-of-detained-aid-workers.html
The U.S. is engaged in intense talks
with  Egypt  to resolve legal charges against Americans working
for pro-democracy groups in the country, an administration
official familiar with the discussions said.  The Obama administration hopes to resolve the case against
the Americans, including Sam LaHood, the son of Transportation
Secretary Ray LaHood, within days, according to the official,
who spoke to reporters on condition of anonymity because of the
sensitivity of the issue.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who is visiting Algeria
after an international meeting in Tunisia on how to counter the
violence in  Syria , has raised the issue twice in the last three
days with her Egyptian counterpart, the official said.  Egypt has charged 16 Americans and 27 others working for
four democracy promotion groups, including two linked to U.S.
congressional leaders and to the Democratic and Republican
parties, with operating without a license and accepting foreign
funds. A fifth group, the Konrad Adenauer Foundation, is based
in  Germany . Among other efforts, they have been assisting
Egyptian democracy activists with voter registration and
electoral reform efforts.  Seven of the Americans remain in Egypt and have been
staying on the grounds of the U.S. Embassy in Cairo since the
charges were filed and they were barred from leaving the
country.  At stake in addition to $1.3 billion in annual U.S. aid to
Egypt is the three-way peace agreement among the U.S., Egypt and
 Israel  that’s been a cornerstone of Arab-Israeli relations since
the 1978 Camp David peace accords.  Arab Spring  In addition, the case could influence the direction Egypt
takes in the aftermath of last year’s Arab Spring uprisings that
toppled pro-Western President  Hosni Mubarak  and other
authoritarian rulers in Tunisia and  Libya  and now threaten
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  Political power in Egypt still resides primarily with the
country’s military leaders, the beneficiaries of much of the
U.S. aid, although the Muslim Brotherhood and other Islamist
groups have been the victors in recent parliamentary elections.  Some U.S. lawmakers, including Republican Senator  John McCain  of Arizona, have said the charges are politically
motivated and called for a halt to U.S. aid if the case isn’t
resolved. This year, for the first time, the Obama
administration must certify to Congress that Egypt is making
progress in developing democracy before aid can be released.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Rabat at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  