-- Egypt Court Adjourns Trial of Pro-Democracy NGO Workers Until April 26
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 2012-02-26T15:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/egypt-trial-of-foreign-pro-democracy-workers-starts-as-clinton-seeks-deal.html
An Egyptian court adjourned for two
months the trial of 43 workers for pro-democracy organizations,
including 16 Americans, in a case that has dragged U.S.-Egyptian
relations to their lowest level in years.  Fourteen Egyptian defendants appeared in court and pleaded
not guilty to charges including using foreign funds to stoke
unrest and operating without a license. The other accused
workers weren’t present. Judge Mahmoud Shoukry ordered the
adjournment until April 26 and requested the presence of the
remaining defendants.  The accused work for five non-governmental organizations,
including two linked to U.S. Congressional leaders. The charges
carry prison terms of as much as five years.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  has raised the case
twice in the past few days with her Egyptian counterpart,
according to a U.S. official, who spoke to reporters on
condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue.
Some U.S. lawmakers, including Republican Senator  John McCain  of
 Arizona , have said the allegations are politically motivated and
called for a halt to U.S. aid if the case isn’t resolved. The
U.S. provides $1.3 billion in annual military aid to  Egypt .  The U.S. hopes to resolve the case within days, the
official said. The Americans include Sam LaHood, son of
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood.  Clinton, speaking to reporters in  Morocco , said she was
evaluating today’s court session, adding: “This is a fluid
situation, and there are a lot of moving parts that we have to
fully understand before I go any further than I have.”  Destabilize Transition  State-run media has sought to characterize the employees’
work as part of a foreign plot to destabilize the transition to
democracy after nearly three decades of authoritarian rule under
President  Hosni Mubarak . Egypt’s military rulers have argued
that “hidden hands” were behind much of the unrest following
the ouster of Mubarak last year.  Rights groups have dismissed the criticism and called the
moves against the NGOs an attempt to stifle free speech and a
throwback to former regime practices of shifting blame onto
others to distract the country’s 85 million citizens from
domestic problems.  “The rhetoric employed by Egyptian authorities in doing so
is increasingly reminiscent of Mubarak-era propaganda,”
International Republican Institute head Lorne Craner said in
testimony before Congress on Feb. 16. LaHood headed the IRI’s
office in Egypt.  Barred From Leaving  Seven of the Americans remain in Egypt and have been
staying on the grounds of the U.S. Embassy in Cairo since the
charges were filed and they were barred from leaving the
country.  Outside the courtroom today, about 100 protesters called
for the release of Omar Abdel-Rahman, the blind Egyptian cleric
imprisoned in the U.S. following the 1993 bombing of the World
Trade Center in  New York , in exchange for the U.S. defendants. A
separate group rallied in support of the NGO workers.  The trial comes as the country’s military rulers face
mounting pressures over their stewardship of the economy and the
transition to a civilian government. The head of the ruling
military council, Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, today
ordered the parliament to convene on March 3 to elect a
committee to draw up a new constitution.  In the wake of the 18-day uprising that ousted Mubarak,
Egypt has run through over 50 percent of its  foreign reserves 
and is seeking a $3.2 billion loan from the  International
Monetary Fund , as well as additional help from the  World Bank 
and other foreign donors.  Crisis Solution  During the past few weeks, Tantawi has met with top U.S.
officials, including McCain and General Martin Dempsey, the
chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, as the U.S. presses
Egyptian officials to find a solution to the crisis.  Political power in Egypt resides primarily with the
country’s military leaders although the  Muslim Brotherhood  and
other Islamist groups have been the victors in recent
parliamentary elections.  This year, for the first time, the Obama administration
must certify to Congress that Egypt is making progress in
developing democracy before aid can be released.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek Eltablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  