-- Telefonica to Bid for Airwaves in Brazil, Chile This Year
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-02-27T14:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/telefonica-plans-to-bid-for-airwaves-in-chile-brazil-this-year.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Spain ’s largest
telephone company, plans to bid for airwaves in  Brazil  and Chile
this year for building faster networks as it prepares for a boom
in demand for mobile data in  Latin America .  The company, which gets about half of its  revenue  from the
region, needs the wireless frequencies for networks based on the
long-term evolution standard already used in the U.S. and in
parts of  Europe , Chief Technology Officer Enrique Blanco said in
an interview yesterday. The Madrid-based operator will invest
“all the money it needs,” he said.  “We plan to bid for LTE radio frequencies in Chile and
Brazil toward the second half this year,” Blanco said in
Barcelona before the start of the Mobile World Congress. In
Spain, Telefonica is gearing up for a potential LTE deployment
in 2014, he added.  Phone companies including Telefonica need to bolster
strained networks as more customers use increasingly high-
quality video, music and games. Spain’s former monopoly is
struggling to stop a loss in market share as Spaniards switch to
cheaper rivals amid a weak economy and high unemployment.  Instant Messaging  Telefonica and a group of operators including  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD)  and  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Orange are working on a
project for the so-called Rich Communications Suite that will
include instant messaging, Blanco said.  The JOYN instant messaging application, which can transfer
voice and data, will be part of the suite, Inaki Cabrera,
innovation director for Vodafone Spain, said today at a press
conference in Barcelona. It is now in beta testing and will be
available to customers in Spain in the summer, he said. The
software will come with new tariffs to help customers improve
control over spending, he added.  “Ten years ago SMS wasn’t very popular because you could
only send a message to other people within your own operator,”
Ian Miller, Telefonica’s director for radio access networks,
said in a separate interview. “We need to partner with other
vendors because this will be the only way that this new
generation of messages will be become popular and take off. This
needs to be inter-operable between all operators.”  After  Chile  and Brazil, Telefonica predicts it will bid for
LTE frequencies in other Latin  American markets  such as
Argentina, Uruguay,  Mexico  or Peru within 18 months, said
Miller.  “These markets are catching up, but the real challenge is
the devices, whether they become cost effective enough to be
massively available,” Miller said. “How much we’re willing to
invest and whether we team up or not with other operators will
vary market to market.”  Alcatel-Lucent  Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is also counting on
Latin America’s economic growth to win back investors.
Telefonica said last week sales in the region climbed 13.5
percent to 29.2 billion euros ($39.3 billion) last year.
Telefonica operates in 14 countries in the region.  Telefonica shares  fell  0.1 percent to 12.85 euros as of
3:19 p.m. in Madrid.  Telefonica is working with Firefox browser maker Mozilla on
mobile applications using HTML5 language, Carlos Domingo,
director of product development and innovation at Telefonica,
said today in Barcelona.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and other phone
operators are also involved in the Mozilla accord, he said.  “The performance of devices can be much higher thanks to
this, while it can also lower prices for smartphones and bring
them to the mass market in  emerging markets  in Latin America,”
Domingo said.  4G Trial  Telefonica yesterday unveiled a 4G trial in Barcelona based
on  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU) ’s light radio technology and  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) ’s Galaxy S II LTE smartphone and Tab. 8.9
tablet. This trial will be extended to other cities across Spain
depending on demand and radio frequencies and devices, which are
the two biggest challenges, according to Blanco.  Besides Spain, this technology is set to expand in other
European cities, Miller added.  “We are planning to do other trials like this one in
 Barcelona  in other European cities in  Germany , Czech Republic,
U.K., and so on,” Miller said. “We are now also considering
network sharing with other operators for LTE where we can’t get
all the frequencies need.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Barcelona via 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  