-- Erdogan Confidence Means Lower Samurai Yields Than Uruguay: Turkey Credit
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-02-27T11:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/erdogan-confidence-means-lower-samurai-yields-than-uruguay-turkey-credit.html
Japanese investors are poised to
provide  Turkey  with its lowest  borrowing costs  as confidence in
the nation’s economic outlook improves.  Turkey is offering $1 billion of 10-year Samurai notes at a
yield between 35 and 45 basis points above the benchmark yen
swap rate, said a person with direct knowledge who declined to
be identified. At current rates, the yield would be no higher
than 1.44 percent, compared with 1.87 percent when Turkey tapped
Japanese investors last March and 5.75 percent on dollar bonds
sold Feb. 8, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Uruguay, rated a
level higher than Turkey by Moody’s Investors Service, paid 1.64
percent on a 10-year Samurai in May.  Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, 58, is taking
advantage of resurgent confidence in the world’s second-fastest
growing major economy after the central bank reduced  interest
rates  twice this year. While Asahi Life Asset Management Co.
Ltd., a unit of  Japan ’s second oldest insurer, said it won’t buy
the notes because the yield is too low, demand for emerging
market assets will help the sale, according to ING Groep NV.  “A tight spread for Turkey is justified if you look at the
fundamentals on the fiscal side,” Simon Quijano-Evans, an
economist at ING in London, said by phone on Feb. 24. “It
wouldn’t surprise me to see the spreads falling even further
over the next 12 months as the fiscal dynamics are among the
best in the  emerging markets  universe.”  Narrower Deficit  Turkey’s  economy  expanded 9.6 percent in the first nine
months of last year, second only to  China  among the Group of 20
nations. Rising gross domestic product helped Turkey reduce its
 budget deficit  to 1.4 percent of GDP last year from 3.6 percent
in 2010. Erdogan is targeting a gap of 1.5 percent of output
this year, compared with an average 2.7 percent shortfall for
 developing countries  monitored by the  International Monetary
Fund .  The country’s growth outlook has improved since the central
bank resumed lending to banks at the lower of its two main rates
at  5.75 percent  since Jan. 6. It also cut its maximum rate to
11.5 percent from 12.5 percent on Feb. 21. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. boosted its forecast for 2012  economic growth  to 2.5
percent from 0.8 percent on Feb. 10.  The Samurai sale is “well timed,”  David Hauner , head of
emerging  Europe  strategy at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in
London, said in a phone interview on Feb. 24. “Over the course
of the past two months, Turkey has experienced a certain amount
of catch up in external debt as well as in local markets.”  The yield on  Turkey’s dollar bonds , which was the same as
the average for emerging markets on Jan. 6, dropped 26 basis
points below, or 0.26 percentage point, on Feb. 24, according to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Global EMBI Indexes.  ‘Risk-Off’  While Turkey’s budget deficit has shrunk, the shortfall on
the current account surged to more than 10 percent of GDP last
year. Its reliance on foreign funding to cover the deficit
leaves Turkey “particularly susceptible to potential risk-off
sentiment,” Morgan Stanley analysts including Marianna Kozintseva in London said in an e-mailed report on Feb. 23.  The vulnerability of the economy makes the yield on its
Samurai offering too low, according to Yoshihiro Nakatani at
Asahi Life Asset Management Co.  “Turkey is familiar to Japanese investors but I think this
time the issue is not a good deal,” Nakatani, a Tokyo-based
senior  fund manager  who helps oversee about $1 billion at Asahi,
said in a phone interview on Feb. 24. “This bond spread is not
attractive.”  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Turkish bonds against default using
five-year credit-default swaps rose six basis points to 248
basis points today, higher than the spread of 195 for  Russia ,
which is rated three levels higher by  Standard & Poor’s , and 203
for  Poland , rated five levels higher, according to CMA, which is
owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately-negotiated market.  Turkish contracts cost 34 basis points less than the
average for countries in central and eastern Europe, the  Middle
East  and  Africa  included in the Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index.
The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Moody’s Investors Service rates Turkey Ba2, two steps below
investment grade, with a “positive” outlook. S&P also rates
Turkey at two levels below investment grade at BB. Fitch rates
Turkey one level below investment.  Yields on  two-year benchmark bonds  in liras rose 17 basis
points to 9.35 percent by 1:39 p.m. in Istanbul, the highest
intra-day level since Feb. 16. The lira declined 0.4 percent to
1.7738 per dollar.  Borrowing Plans  The Samurai sale is part of a foreign borrowing program to
raise 9.5 billion liras ($5.4 billion) this year. The government
sold $1 billion of dollar bonds due 2022 at a yield of 5.75
percent on Feb. 8, three weeks after issuing $1.5 billion of the
same debt at 6.35 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
yield has since fallen to 5.37 percent.  The Samurai bonds will be guaranteed by the  Japan Bank for
International Cooperation , said the person with knowledge of the
deal, asking not to be identified as the information is private.
The same bank guaranteed Turkey’s last sale Samurai debt as well
as Uruguay’s securities.  The offering in yen reflects the growing importance of
Turkey’s trade with non-western partners, according to Quijano-
Evans. The European Union’s share of Turkish exports fell to 42
percent in December 2011 from 45 percent a year earlier,
according to the statistics office’s  website .  “It’s important for Turkey to look into a new investor
base,” he said. “Over the last couple of years what Turkey has
done is move more towards  Asia .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  