-- Europe Focus Shifts to Debt-Crisis Firewall
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-02-27T09:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/european-focus-shifts-to-debt-crisis-firewall-ahead-of-summit.html
European leaders will shift their
focus this week from a Greek bailout to the prospect of
bolstering the region’s firewall against debt-crisis contagion
as they ready for their latest summit.  After lawmakers in  Germany  and Finland vote on approving
the second Greek rescue package today and Feb. 29, European
Union heads of government will turn to their March 1-2 summit in
Brussels. Leaders of the 17-member monetary union have said
they’ll decide in March whether to lift a 500 billion-euro ($672
billion) limit to bailout funding.  As the  European Central Bank  prepares a second round of
cash lending to help shore up the region’s banks, policy makers
are focused on preventing a Greek collapse in order to take
advantage of signs of an improved global economy.  The latest Greek bailout “gives the opportunity of euro-
zone leaders to put a better, more organized and larger firewall
in place,”  William Rhodes , chief executive officer of William
R. Rhodes Global Advisors, said in a Feb. 24 interview on
Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays Advantage.”  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government has resisted
proposals to increase bailout funding by topping up the 500-
billion-euro European Stability Mechanism, the permanent fund
scheduled to be set up this year. Euro leaders are considering
diverting funds from the temporary bailout mechanism, the
European Financial Stability Facility, to increase the region’s
resources in fighting the crisis.  G-20 Rebuff  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  rejected calls
to make rescue funds “ever bigger.” In a Feb. 24 op-ed in
Mexican newspaper El Universal, he said that Germany’s response
to such calls was an “emphatic no.” The resistance created an
impasse as Germany tried to rally Group of 20 nations to find
fresh money for the  International Monetary Fund  to help defuse
the crisis at a meeting in Mexico City over the weekend.  G-20 nations, led by the U.S., isolated Germany and refused
to come to  Europe ’s rescue, saying any decision on outside help
will hinge on euro governments delivering more financial
firepower. A European review of its resources is “essential”
before considering boosting IMF funding, the G-20 said.  Stocks and the euro fell. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index
retreated 0.9 percent as of 9:33 a.m. in  London . The euro
declined 0.2 percent to $1.3427.  German Position  Merkel spokesman Steffen Seibert said Feb. 25 there was no
change in the German position that there’s no need to raise the
funding limit, rebutting a report in Germany’s Focus magazine.
Focus had said Merkel’s government was prepared to concede and
allow 250 billion euros in additional funding from the remaining
volume of the EFSF.  Euro leaders will also try to steer focus toward assisting
economic growth, fending off criticism that the answer to the
debt crisis has rested too much on austerity. Merkel and
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said on Feb. 24
that leaders will seek growth through changes in labor-market
policies and scaling back bureaucracy.  “It’s clear that things in Greece -- and also elsewhere,
but primarily in Greece -- cannot move toward a better future if
there aren’t also growth impulses,” Juncker said alongside
Merkel in the chancellor’s constituency on the  Baltic Sea .  ECB Loans  The ECB’s issuance of three-year cash to banks has been
credited with easing credit pressure on banks, giving euro
leaders more room to maneuver. Euro-area banks may tap the
Frankfurt-based central bank for 470 billion euros on Feb. 29,
almost as much funding as they took in December, according to a
the median of 28 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  That earlier operation helped a rally in bond markets,
which continued last week.  Italy ’s  10-year bonds  rose for a
seventh week, the longest run of gains in the euro-era, with the
yield down nine basis points to 5.49 as of Feb. 24. Spanish  10-
year yields  dropped 21 basis points last week to 5.05 percent.  The success of European leaders will determine whether the
economic chaos in  Greece  spreads to the larger countries.  “The real big issue going forward will be the success of
Spain and Italy,” World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said in
a Bloomberg television interview in Singapore Feb. 25. “The
good news is we’ve got some very reformist governments in both
countries. They are not only undertaking fiscal discipline but
they have started undertaking structural reforms.”  This week’s activities will begin with Merkel today
addressing German lawmakers in the lower house of parliament, or
Bundestag, at 3 p.m. Berlin time before a vote on approving the
Greek package. Schaeuble and other government officials have
predicted a majority, as the opposition  Social Democratic Party 
has signaled it will support the measure.  Volker Kauder , the parliamentary leader of Merkel’s
Christian Democratic-led bloc, reiterated that Germany doesn’t
want to force Greece out of the euro area.  “We want to keep Greece in the euro zone,” Kauder said in
an interview with ARD television yesterday. Trying to make the
country leave would be the “wrong signal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  