-- Explosion Kills 3 People in Nigeria
-- B y   A r d o   H a z z a d   a n d   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-02-26T19:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/explosion-kills-3-people-in-central-nigerian-city-of-jos.html
An explosion killed at least three
people at a church today in the central Nigerian city of Jos,
the country’s  National Emergency Management Agency  said.  “The explosion was triggered by a suspected suicide bomber
whose body was shredded into pieces,” Yushau Shuaib, head of
the emergency management agency, said by telephone, adding that
at least 38 injured people were taken to hospitals.  Boko Haram“was responsible for the attack in a reaction to
the molestation of Muslims by Christian residents in Jos,” its
spokesman, Abul Qaqa, said by telephone today. The group,  wants
to impose Shariah, or Islamic law, in  Africa ’s most populous
country.  Authorities in Africa’s top oil producer have blamed Boko
Haram for bomb and gun attacks in northern Nigeria and Abuja
since 2009 in which hundreds of people have died. The group,
whose name means “Western education is a sin,” claimed
responsibility for attacks in Kano, northern Nigeria’s biggest
city, on Jan. 20 that killed at least 256 people, according to
the  Civil Rights Congress .  “Government is gradually and firmly bringing justice to
those behind these attacks and exposing their identities and
dismantling their terror infrastructure,” President  Goodluck Jonathan  said in a statement from the capital, Abuja. “Those
behind similar acts of terror in recent times have been arrested
and are being investigated with a view to prosecuting them
accordingly, as a deterrent to others,” he said.  Nigeria , with more than 164 million people, is roughly
split between a mainly Muslim north and predominantly Christian
south. More than 14,000 people died in ethnic and religious
clashes in the West African nation between 1999 and 2009,
according to the Brussels-based  International Crisis Group .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ardo Hazzad in Bauchi at 
 ahazzad@bloomberg.net ;
Emele Onu in Lagos, Nigeria at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  