-- Frankfurt Flights Canceled as Strike Resumes Following Talks
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-02-27T17:59:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/frankfurt-airport-ground-controllers-expected-to-resume-strike.html
Frankfurt Airport (FRA)  said as many as
200 flights, or 15 percent of the total, would be  canceled  today
after ground controllers resumed  strike action  following the
failure of talks over pay and the outsourcing of contracts.  The walkout began at 9 p.m. yesterday and is scheduled to
end at 5 a.m. on March 1, Gewerkschaft der Flugsicherung union
spokesman Matthias Maas said today, adding that the labor group
has agreed to extend the action into other operational areas
which would “severely damage” airport owner  Fraport AG (FRA) .  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , which has its hub in Frankfurt, will
scrap about 140 flights today at  Europe ’s third-busiest airport,
spokeswoman Claudia Lange said, maintaining “more than 80
percent of normal operations,” including all long-haul services.  Talks aimed at ending the dispute, which involves 200 staff
responsible for directing planes as they taxi and park, broke
down Feb. 24 after Fraport offered terms similar to those agreed
at Munich airport. That deal was worth less than one proposed
before the start of mediation, according to the GdF.  Broader Protest  “We made it clear today that we expect the GdF to accept
the very good offer that we made last week,” Fraport spokesman
Mike Schweitzer said by phone after the companied issued details
of the terms rejected by the union.  The GdF will no longer give 24 hours’ notice of action by
ground-control staff, and may call out members in other fields
in support of the protest, Maas said.  The union has said it favors proposals from mediator Ole von Beust for a two-step monthly wage increase of between 200
euros ($269) and 1,600 euros. It also wants any outsourced jobs
to move to a single company on a single contract.  Fraport had fallen 1.5 percent to 47.06 euros as of the
close in  Frankfurt . Lufthansa, Europe’s second-biggest airline,
declined 2.4 percent to 10.17 euros as the seven member
Bloomberg EMEA Airlines Index slipped 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  