-- Frontier Stocks Lose in Best Rally Since ’91
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m ,   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-02-27T20:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/frontier-stocks-lose-in-best-rally-since-1991-as-smallest-economies-falter.html
The best start to a year for stocks
in two decades is leaving the  smallest markets  behind, a sign of
reduced investor confidence in the least-developed economies.  All eight of the world’s worst-performing equity indexes
this year are in frontier countries, where the average stock-
market value of $30 billion is about 95 percent less than in
emerging nations. While the  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  jumped
11 percent, gauges in  Bangladesh (DHAKA)  and Sri Lanka sank at least 9
percent as interest rates increased.  Nigeria ’s  stock index  fell
1.8 percent after union strikes and attacks by Islamic
militants. Frontier-nation stocks trade at the lowest valuations
since at least 2008 versus emerging-market shares.  Falling  valuations  reflect concern that growth in the
smallest economies, which expanded about 20 percent slower than
larger developing nations on average during the past three
years, won’t accelerate in 2012. Bank  Julius Baer  & Co. says the
losses create buying opportunities for long-term investors.
Ashmore EMM LLC has been cutting frontier-market holdings and
 Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. (OCBC)  is avoiding the  stocks .  “On a purely tactical basis, we have actually reduced
exposure in frontier markets,” said Antoine van Agtmael, who
coined the term “emerging markets” in 1981 and now oversees
about $7.1 billion as chairman of Ashmore EMM in Arlington,
Virginia. “The larger, more liquid markets offered relatively
more compelling investment opportunities.”  Emerging-Market Rally  The 25-country  MSCI Frontier Markets Index (MXFM)  increased 2.8
percent this year, trailing the emerging-market measure by about
13 percentage points. Nigeria’s  Union Bank of Nigeria ,
Bangladesh’s  Dhaka Electric Supply Co. (DESC)  and Sri Lanka’s  Lanka
Orix Finance Co. (LOFC)  declined more than 29 percent, countering gains
in Vietnamese shares including Bao Viet Holdings and  Vietnam
Dairy Products Joint-Stock Co. (VNM)   MSCI Inc. (MSCI) ’s gauge of shares in 21 emerging countries, which
have an average stock-market capitalization of $603 billion,
surged 15 percent this year as Brazil reduced its benchmark
 interest rate  to the lowest level in 18 months and  China  cut
banks’ reserve requirements. A new three-year lending program
from the  European Central Bank  and data showing a rebound in the
U.S. job market eased concern that developing-nation exports
will slow.  The price-to-reported earnings ratio for the  frontier
index , comprised of  companies  with an average market value of
$2.6 billion, dropped to 10.7 from 16 a year ago and trades at a
10 percent discount to the emerging-market measure, made up of
companies with a mean market capitalization of $12 billion.  ‘Macro Risk’  “I would go for quality as opposed to underperformance,”
said Vasu Menon, a vice-president of wealth management at
Oversea-Chinese Banking, the second-largest financial services
group in Southeast  Asia . “It’s a year you don’t want to add on
another layer of risk on top of macro risk.”  Frontier markets have smaller economies and worse rankings
on gauges of business climate and corruption than emerging
markets. They also have lower trading volumes, which make it
more difficult for investors to sell shares.  The average annual gross domestic product for nations in
the frontier index is $118 billion, compared with $994 billion
for the emerging-market gauge, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and the  International Monetary Fund . Frontier
countries have an average ranking of 74 in the World Bank’s ease
of doing business index, compared with 70 for emerging markets.
Their mean ranking of 82 in Transparency International’s
corruption perceptions index is worse than the 75 average for
emerging countries.  Liquidity Trap  Less than $15 million of shares  changed hands  each day on
 Sri Lanka (CSEALL) ’s Colombo Stock Exchange during the past month,
compared with $12 billion on the Shanghai Stock Exchange in
China, the biggest emerging market, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “Frontier markets are riskier on the liquidity front, so
you may get trapped there when times change,” Chong Yoon Chou,
the Singapore-based investment director at Aberdeen Asset
Management Asia Ltd., which has $75 billion of assets in Asia,
said in a phone interview on Feb. 13.  The rally in emerging-market stocks in October 2008
foreshadowed the end of the last bear market in frontier
countries. The  MSCI frontier index  surged more than 50 percent
in three months after hitting a bottom in March 2009. The
gauge’s ratio of price to trailing earnings was 10 when the
rally began, compared with 10.7 on Feb. 24, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Vietnam Gains  The short-term challenges facing frontier countries haven’t
reduced their long-term growth potential, said Mark Matthews,
the Singapore-based head of research for Asia at Julius Baer.
While their average expansion may slow to 4.3 percent this year
from 4.6 percent in 2011, growth will probably accelerate to 4.8
percent by 2015, forecasts by the Washington-based IMF show.  Frontier countries including Vietnam will lure
manufacturers from China as labor costs in the world’s second-
largest economy rise, according to Matthews. About 60 percent of
Vietnam’s 87 million people are below the age of 35 and minimum
salaries were equivalent to $85 a month in 2009, compared with
$173 in China, according to the United Nations’  International
Labour Organization .  Frontier markets “are a great structural story,” said
Julius Baer’s Matthews, who helps oversee about $180 billion.
“If you are taking a three-year view, you won’t worry if it
falls in six months.”  Vietnam’s benchmark VN Index gained 1.2 percent today. It
advanced 22 percent this year, rebounding from a 27 percent
retreat in 2011, as inflation slowed for a sixth straight month
in February to 16.44 percent. Dominic Scriven, the chief
executive officer of Ho Chi Minh City-based money manager Dragon
Capital Group Ltd., said by phone on Feb. 17 the rate may drop
to between 8 percent and 9 percent this year, giving the central
bank room to cut borrowing costs.  Mobius Is Bullish  Bao Viet Holdings (BVH) , a Hanoi-based insurer, has rallied 43
percent in 2012. Ho Chi Minh City-based Vietnam Dairy Products,
known as Vinamilk, has increased 5.8 percent and trades for 11.8
times reported earnings, compared with an average 17.5 times
since Bloomberg began compiling the data in 2006.  “Taking a long-term view is the best way to cope with
volatility,” said  Mark Mobius , who oversees more than $40
billion in developing nations as executive chairman of Templeton
Emerging Markets Group. “As these countries move ahead, their
governments are taking the steps necessary to help support
sustained, steady growth.”  Nigeria Inflation  The best investment opportunities so far this year are in
emerging markets, Ashmore EMM’s van Agtmael said. The MSCI
emerging-market gauge is  valued  at 12 times reported profit,
lower than the 13.7 average during the past decade, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. In China, where the economy expanded
at an 8.9 percent rate in the fourth quarter, stocks in the
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  trade at a 53 percent discount to their
10-year average price-earnings ratios.  Van Agtmael said he cut holdings in Nigeria, where the
benchmark equity index dropped 16 percent last year. Lagos-based
 Union Bank of Nigeria  sank 33 percent since the end of December,
and was the second-biggest drag on the Nigerian Stock Exchange
All Share Index after  Dangote Cement Plc. (DANGCEM)   A week-long general strike last month mobilized millions
against President Goodluck Jonathan’s decision to remove fuel
subsidies, while attacks by Islamist militants killed as many as
256 people in the northern city of Kano.  Sri Lanka, Bangladesh  Nigeria’s central bank predicted inflation will accelerate
to about 14 percent by mid-year from 12.6 percent in January,
even after policy makers lifted the benchmark  interest rate  6
percentage points since September 2010 to 12 percent.  Inflation in Bangladesh has exceeded 10 percent every month
since March as food and electricity prices climbed and the
nation’s currency, the taka, depreciated 13 percent against the
dollar during the past year. The central bank raised interest
rates on Jan. 5 for the second time in four months.  Concerns about political stability have increased after
Bangladesh’s army said on Jan. 19 that it foiled an attempt to
oust Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina Wajed’s government. The Dhaka
Stock Exchange General Index tumbled 16 percent this year,
extending last year’s 37 percent drop. Dhaka Electric, which
distributes electricity in Bangladesh, lost 30 percent in 2012.  In  Sri Lanka , the government said it raised petroleum
prices this month and will add a fuel surcharge on electricity
bills. Higher fuel costs and the rupee’s tumble to the lowest
level since April 2009 have stoked inflation and prompted the
central bank to raise interest rates for the first time since
2007 this month.  Volatile Markets  The Colombo All-Share Index, which surged more than 200
percent in the two years after the nation’s 26-year civil war
ended in May 2009, declined 9.8 percent this year. Lanka Orix
Finance, a Colombo, Sri Lanka-based consumer-finance company,
tumbled 32 percent.  For stocks in Sri Lanka and Bangladesh, “I wouldn’t buy
them immediately, I will probably wait until the end of the year
once the tightening is complete,” said  Arjuna Mahendran , the
Singapore-based head of Asia investment strategy at  HSBC Private
Bank , which oversees about $500 billion. “Because they are
small, they tend to be really volatile, a little bit of money
can pump the market up very fast, and vice versa.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  