-- G-20 Rebuffs Europe Aid Calls With Bigger Firewall Needed
-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-02-27T03:06:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/geithner-schaeuble-spar-over-sovereign-debt-crisis.html
Germany  was left to dig deeper to
combat the euro-area debt crisis after the Group of 20 nations
told Europe to come up with more financial firepower before they
consider lending outside support.  The decision by G-20 officials to rebuff European calls for
assistance in their crisis-fighting effort pending an increase
in its own financial backstop puts the onus on Germany, already
the biggest national contributor to bailouts, to overcome its
resistance to doing more.  With a parliamentary vote on a second Greek aid package
looming in Berlin today, Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government
must now decide whether to back plans at a March 1-2 European
Union summit to combine rescue funds and produce a potential
firewall of 750 billion euros ($1 trillion).  Europe  “doesn’t really need any outside money,” Jim O’Neill, chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, said in an
e-mail. “It needs their own policy makers, especially Germany,
to show leadership.”  Germany went in to the Mexico meetings of finance ministers
and central bankers urging G-20 nations to find fresh money for
the  International Monetary Fund  that could be channeled to
defuse the euro-region crisis now in its third year. IMF chief
 Christine Lagarde , who attended the talks, said she wants to
raise the Washington-based fund’s lending capacity by $500
billion to fend off “further shocks” to the global economy.  ‘Essential’ Review  The G-20 concluded that a European review of its financial
firewall in March is “essential” before any consideration can
be made to boost resources for the IMF, the G-20 said in its
closing statement issued in  Mexico  City yesterday. Progress will
be assessed in April, when officials gather in  Washington  for
the IMF’s spring meetings.  “Until we see the color of their money, I don’t think you
are going to see any money from the rest of the world,” U.K.
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said in an interview
in Mexico City.  The U.S. led calls for Europe to step up, with Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner saying in a Feb. 25 speech in
Mexico that the region needed to make their crisis-fighting
commitments “credible.” The same day, German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said a deal struck last week for Greece’s 130
billion-euro bailout showed “Europe has done its homework.”  The exchange underscored G-20 divisions as  Japan , Brazil,
 Russia  and the U.K. joined with the U.S. and Canada in prodding
the euro-area to boost its crisis defenses. The deliberations
left no time for discussion of a successor to World Bank chief
Robert Zoellick, who steps down on Jun 30.  Greek-Aid Vote  While the German government has yet to show its hand on a
plan to combine the 250 billion euros remaining in the region’s
temporary fund and the 500 billion-euro permanent rescue fund
that is due to come into force in July, Merkel has signaled she
is open to review the matter at the EU summit in Brussels.  As with Germany’s stance on the crisis since it first came
to light in  Greece  in late 2009, Merkel must take into account
domestic considerations. Sixty-two percent of German voters said
they want lawmakers to reject aid for Greece in today’s vote, an
Emnid poll of 500 people for Bild am Sonntag newspaper showed
yesterday. Thirty-two percent said they backed the bailout.  EU Economic and Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn , asked in
Mexico if he expected a deal on the firewall at this week’s
summit, said he anticipated a result “in the course of March.”
Italy’s central banker, Ignazio Visco, echoed those sentiments.  “The Germans have their own sequencing” and “want Greece
out of the way” before debating the firewall,  Jacques Cailloux 
of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc., said by phone. “Any hope
there could have been for an agreement on a higher firewall as
early as this week’s summit is fading.”  ECB Action  Even so, the G-20’s stance on additional funds is not as
big a focus for investors as Greece and the  European Central
Bank ’s decision to offer banks unlimited liquidity for three
years, the second such offering in three months, Cailloux said.  Pressure for a deal in Mexico eased after European bond
markets reacted positively to last week’s agreement to help
Greece avert the euro-area’s first sovereign default.  Italy’s 10-year bonds rose for a seventh week, the longest
run of gains in the euro-era, while Spanish 10-year bonds had
their biggest weekly advance in a month.  Europe’s  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  index still slipped 0.4 percent last
week on concern that Greece won’t be able to implement the
austerity measures needed for the rescue, and as the European
Commission said the euro area’s economy will shrink this year.
Commerzbank AG, Germany’s second-biggest lender, tumbled 6.6
percent on Feb. 23 as it and two other banks, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc and France’s Credit Agricole SA, booked
losses on their Greek government debt.  Reassuring Investors  “In order to reassure market investors that contagion is
under control, more firepower is needed,”  Andrew Milligan , who
helps oversee about $262 billion as the Edinburgh-based head of
global strategy at Standard Life Investments Ltd., said in an e-
mail. “Pressure is certainly growing on Germany and others to
increase the firewall. I think eventually they will agree,
although it may take another crisis or a difficult period of
negotiation before that happens.”  The G-20 statement said that growth expectations for 2012
are moderate and downside risks continue to be high along with
market volatility. With  oil prices  undergoing the longest rally
in two years amid tension with Iran and Syria, G-20 countries
said in their statement they “welcome the commitment by
producing countries to continue to ensure adequate supply.”  No Complacency  While the meeting recognized the “significant progress”
made this year in Europe and the U.S. in stemming risks, “this
is not the moment for complacency,” Mexico’s Central Bank
Governor Agustin Carstens told reporters.  Euro-area governments have pledged about $200 billion in
new money to the IMF’s lending resources. Geithner said in
Mexico that he won’t go to Congress to seek a U.S. contribution
because “we don’t think that’s necessary or desirable.”  Brazil ’s Finance Minister Guido Mantega said after meeting
with his counterparts from Russia, India,  China  and  South Africa 
that the BRICS group of major  emerging markets  will only add
more funding for Europe if the region’s leaders follow
“precisely to the letter” a 2010 agreement to give them a
bigger say in how the IMF is run.  Canadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty pointed the finger
at Germany for being absent at the helm, saying that it was time
for Europe’s dominant country to “take that leadership role
very seriously and come up with an overall euro-zone plan.”  While the government in Berlin faced criticism, the
Frankfurt-based ECB was singled out for praise by both Geithner
and Lagarde, with the IMF chief saying the central bank’s
actions helped avert “derailment” of the global recovery.  “Given some of the official narrative in the run-up to the
meeting, few expected it to yield much in terms of concrete
agreements,” Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of
Pacific Investment Management Co., said in an e-mail. Still,
“it would be unwise for markets and policymakers to think that
ECB liquidity injections, while powerful, would durably
substitute for proper actions to improve growth, competitiveness
and debt solvency.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Crawford in Mexico City at  acrawaford6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 