-- Germany’s Schaeuble Says Confident Lawmakers to Back Greece Aid
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-02-26T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/germany-s-schaeuble-says-confident-lawmakers-to-back-greece-aid.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said he’s confident his country’s parliament will
support a second aid package for  Greece  in a Feb. 27 vote,
leaving open whether the euro region’s financial backstops
should be increased.  “I assume that we will get the necessary support in
parliament on Monday,” Schaeuble told reporters during a
meeting in Mexico City of finance officials from the 20 biggest
economies. A decision on the need to boost the size of the
region’s permanent rescue fund, known as the European Stability
Mechanism, will be taken “in the course of March,” he said.  That’ll be “in time” for the  International Monetary Fund 
to decide about an increase of its lending capacity at its
meeting in  Washington  on April 20-22, Schaeuble said. The
minister said he assumes that the IMF will provide the
“necessary support” for the second bailout for Greece.  Group of 20 officials gathered less than a week after
 Europe  agreed to a second bailout for Greece in a bid to avert
the euro-area’s first sovereign default. European Union
governments are due to review whether to raise the ESM’s ceiling
“in the course of March,” European Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters in Mexico City yesterday,
suggesting no final decision will be made at a leaders’ summit
starting March 1.  Germany’s priority on the ESM is deciding how quickly
countries should pay into the fund “if we want it actually to
enter into force this summer,” Steffen Seibert, Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s spokesman, told reporters in Berlin on Feb. 22.  Schaeuble said there has been “a broad tendency, but no
decision,” to pay capital into the ESM in two tranches instead
of an originally envisaged five installments.  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said Germany is making
an “important contribution” to solving the debt crisis.
Financial aid can only buy time that needs to be used to improve
competitiveness and restore confidence, Weidmann
said at a press briefing alongside Schaeuble.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Mexico City at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  