-- Gillard Seen Prevailing Over Rudd in Australia’s Labor Leadership Ballot
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-26T21:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/gillard-favored-over-rudd-in-australian-labor-leadership-ballot.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  and predecessor  Kevin Rudd  face off in a leadership
contest today, with the victor needing to revive the Labor
party’s lagging ratings before elections due in 2013.  Gillard is the favorite to win the ballot of Labor
lawmakers at 10 a.m. local time in the nation’s capital,
Canberra, with a tally of voting intentions compiled by the
Australian and Age newspapers showing the prime minister with a
2-to-1 margin. Rudd, who resigned as foreign minister last week
as he sought to reclaim the nation’s top job, vowed yesterday
that Gillard would have his “unequivocal support” should she
prevail.  “All the indications show Gillard should win
comfortably,” said Zareh Ghazarian, a political analyst at
Melbourne’s  Monash University . “After the ballot, she’ll be
looking to get some traction with voters in getting her message
across and try to turn the polls around.”  After weeks of political infighting, whoever wins needs to
rebuild public support as the government tries to implement
unprecedented taxes on mining profits and carbon emissions that
the Liberal-National opposition says it would scrap. The prime
minister must hold together a minority government that relies on
the support of independent and Green party lawmakers, while
narrowing the opposition’s double-digit lead in opinion polls.  Snap Election  Tensions have simmered within the party since Gillard
toppled Rudd in a June 2010 party-room coup amid complaints
about the autocratic style of his 2007-2010 prime ministership
and concern over his slumping poll ratings.  Gillard cobbled together a minority government after the
closest election in seven decades in August 2010. Any collapse
in that arrangement risks triggering another national vote
before 2013 that opinion surveys indicate the conservatives
would win.  The  Labor party ’s primary vote of 35 percent trails
opposition leader  Tony Abbott ’s coalition by 10 percentage
points, according to a Newspoll published in the Australian
today. The survey of 1,152 people conducted Feb. 23-26 had a
margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  Abbott, 54, a volunteer lifeguard who once studied for the
priesthood, says his coalition is ready for an election and
presents a “stable and united team.” He hasn’t ruled out
calling a no-confidence vote among lawmakers in the lower house
of parliament that could trigger an early election if
successful.  “I think for  Australia ’s sake, this government should
go,” Abbott told reporters yesterday.  Ministerial Lineup  If Gillard wins today, one of her first tasks will be to
consider whether her ministerial lineup needs its second
overhaul in three months. She would have to select a replacement
for Rudd as foreign minister and may choose to sideline Cabinet
colleagues who declared they would vote against her in the
ballot, such as Resources Minister Martin Ferguson and  Kim Carr ,
minister for manufacturing.  Rudd, 54, defended his decision to contest the ballot,
saying the party needed to choose a “new leadership course,
which has some prospect of saving the Australian Labor
government from electoral annihilation.”  “Sometimes you’ve got to take a stand, even though you
think it’s going to be really tough,” he said in an interview
with Channel 7 television today. “I’m resting very calm in my
skin this morning.”  Rudd has promised not to mount a second challenge to
Gillard if she wins. He may find a way out of that pledge should
she fall further behind in polling later this year, according to
 Nick Economou , a political analyst at  Melbourne ’s Monash
University.  ‘Lightning Rod’  “Rudd is a lightning rod for dissatisfied Labor members,
of which there’ll probably be a growing number as the year goes
on,” said Economou, co-author of “Media, Power and Politics in
Australia.” “The fundamental problem is she’s on track for
election defeat, and as long as that’s the case, there’s always
a big possibility of a challenge to her leadership.”  The victor’s efforts to boost Labor’s poll ratings may be
hampered by an economy that recorded its worst annual job growth
in 19 years in 2011, when  house prices  slumped by a record 4.8
percent.  While the biggest mining boom in a century is helping the
economy sustain a two-decade long expansion, a currency that has
gained 23 percent since Gillard took office in June 2010 is
hurting manufacturing. The local dollar bought $1.0703 at 7:57
a.m. in Sydney today, after reaching $1.1081 on July 27, the
highest level since it was freely floated in 1983.  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , the country’s largest steel producer,
in August closed its export division.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and
General Motors Co. have cut jobs in Australia this year, citing
the currency’s strength, while  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  is reviewing the
future of an aluminum smelter.  ‘Slow Lane’  “A big chunk of the Labor voting base is in the slow lane
of Australia’s two-speed economy,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-
based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd.,
which has $100 billion under management. “Australia has to make
the adjustment related to the strength in the mining sector, and
trying to resist that is futile, but it’s a difficult balancing
act for the government and whoever wins the ballot.”  The job market has shown signs of revival this year as
employers added the most workers in 14 months in January and the
 unemployment rate  unexpectedly declined to 5.1 percent, compared
with the 7.9 percent average for advanced economies last year.  Interest Rates  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia kept its benchmark  interest
rate  at 4.25 percent on Feb. 7, the highest among major
developed nations, after lowering borrowing costs by a quarter
percentage point twice late last year.  The central bank is likely to cut rates once more as risks
to global growth remain, said Paul Bloxham, chief economist for
HSBC Holdings Plc in Sydney and a former RBA official who
predicts the economy will then accelerate next year. “The
challenge for the government is that the next election is likely
to occur in 2013 and it’s quite possible we’ll be in an
environment where interest rates are rising.”  As parliament resumes in Canberra today, a Gillard
government would aim to implement taxes on  carbon emissions  and
resources profits as it strives to return the budget to surplus
by 2012-13.  Under a law coming into effect on July 1, the government
will charge about 500 polluters A$23 a ton for discharges until
the set price gives way to a cap-and-trade system in 2015. A 30
percent tax on  iron ore  and coal profits is forecast to raise
A$7.7 billion in the first two years. The mining tax bill is
expected to be approved in the upper house where the government
has the support of Greens, who hold the balance of power.  Narrowing the Gap  Today’s Newspoll shows Labor narrowing the gap with the
coalition in the primary vote, cutting four percentage points
from the 14-point margin in the previous poll on Feb. 10-12. Its
35 percent support in the primary vote was the highest in almost
a year, Newspoll data shows. Gillard, with 36 percent, trails
Abbott, on 38 percent, as preferred prime minister.  Australian bookmaker Sportsbet.com.au, which says it’s the
nation’s largest online betting agency by revenue, is offering
to return A$1.03 on every A$1 bet that Gillard will win the
leadership contest. It will pay A$10 for Rudd. One better has
wagered A$300,000 on a Gillard victory, Haydn Lane, a spokesman
for sportsbet.com.au, said in an e-mailed statement.  “This is comfortably the biggest bet in Australian
political history,” said Lane. “Four times as many individual
punters have backed Rudd, but the ones with the biggest wallets
all believe Gillard is across the line.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  