-- Goldman Fights for Prized Oktoberfest Conference
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-02-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/goldman-fights-unicredit-for-prized-oktoberfest-conference-slot.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  will spar
with  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  over steins of Bavarian beer this autumn as
they jostle to lure German equity investors to rival conferences
in Munich during  Oktoberfest .  When UniCredit quit its western European equities business
on Nov. 14,  Italy ’s largest bank took another month to  confirm 
that it would team up with Kepler Capital Markets SA to continue
the annual conference it started in 2003. Both Goldman, along
with partner Berenberg Bank, and  Baader Bank AG (BWB)  had in the
meantime announced similar events, leaving investors with three
ways to spend their days before heading for the beer tents.  “Goldman and Berenberg as well as Baader have obviously
opportunistically jumped on this fixed conference date in
people’s diary in the wrong expectation that we would no longer
host the conference,” said Christian Steffens, UniCredit’s co-
head of global  capital markets . “People have always enjoyed
coming to Munich for the conference, as it is a nice place to
be, especially during the Oktoberfest.”  The first Oktoberfest was held in 1810 to honor Bavarian
Crown Prince Ludwig’s marriage to Princess Therese von Sachsen-
Hildburghausen. This year’s festival, which runs from Sept. 22
through Oct. 7, will attract about 6 million revelers to the
tents and halls set up by local breweries.  Economic Strength  More important for the conference organizers is that
 Germany , Europe’s largest economy, continues to buck a recession
that’s gripping the region’s southern countries.  “At the moment the whole world is looking at Germany,”
said Benon Janos, a Frankfurt-based managing director at
Goldman, who is in charge of the conference in September.  Goldman and Hamburg-based Berenberg  start  their three-day
“German Corporate Conference 2012” on Sept. 24, one day before
their rivals. They have invited more than 100 companies,
according to Janos, and 800 institutional investors are expected
to attend.  “Until now, we didn’t have such an event and we wanted to
keep this conference in Munich alive,” said Janos. “We will
deliver a very good event this year, next year and the year
after that and then we will see.”  UniCredit and Kepler, the French securities firm that now
provides research on stocks in western  Europe  to the Italian
bank’s customers, expect more than 100 company representatives
and about 700 investors to attend their three-day conference,
starting Sept. 25, said Steffens.  Hiring Organizers  Baader Bank, the German securities brokerage that is
expanding its capital markets offerings, will  invite  investors
to Munich’s  BMW-Welt  venue on the same days as the UniCredit
event. Baader, based in Unterschleissheim near Munich, has hired
Oliver Riedel, Karin Brinkmann and other people who previously
helped arrange the event at UniCredit, said Nico Baader, a
member of the management board and son of founder Uto Baader.  So far, 70 companies have confirmed their attendance and
the bank is targeting 500 to 600 participants, Baader said.  “We provide a broad range from blue chips to small caps
and, uniquely, Austrian companies as well,” said Baader.
“We’re not here to do this once.”  “While for us, as a Munich-based investor, the Oktoberfest
isn’t as much as an attraction as maybe for U.S. investors, we
don’t mind so much having three conferences on exactly the same
topic simultaneously,” said Stefan Degen, who helps manage
about 36 billion euros ($48 billion) as head of equities at
BayernInvest, the asset manager owned by  Bayerische Landesbank (BLGZ) 
in Munich. “We will simply decide where the most interesting
presentations are being offered.”  Starting to Rebuild  UniCredit and Kepler will have to battle to attract
participants after losing sales people to Baader and other
rivals, said Degen. “Kepler is just starting to rebuild those
relationships,” he said.  UniCredit can overcome the loss, said Steffens. Linking up
with Kepler has added about 2,000 investor contacts from  France ,
 Spain , Benelux, Scandinavia and the U.S., he said.  “We’re confident that this year’s conference will become
even broader in terms of investor participation than last
year’s, when we counted 591 investors,” Steffens said
“Companies want to see investors from all over the world at
such a conference and we have the track record of being able to
attract them to Munich.”  For some companies and investors, the choice will be easy.  “We will attend the Goldman/Berenberg conference as we
haven’t been invited by the others, which don’t cover our
stock,” said Claudia Gutjahr-Loeser, head of corporate
communications and investor relations at German biotechnology
company  MorphoSys AG (MOR) . “Generally it doesn’t make sense to try
to accommodate three conferences at the same time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  