-- IMF Will Probably Discuss Loan to Greece at March 13 Meeting, Batista Says
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-02-26T00:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/imf-will-probably-discuss-loan-to-greece-at-march-13-meeting-batista-says.html
The  International Monetary Fund  set
March 13 as a tentative date to discuss its contribution to a
130 billion-euro ($175 billion) rescue package for  Greece , an
IMF board official said.  While the Washington-based fund has until now borne about
one third of the cost of euro-area aid, it has yet to announce
its share of the second Greek bailout. IMF chief  Christine Lagarde  said Feb. 21 after euro governments approved the rescue
that the fund’s contribution will hinge on  Europe ’s progress in
building a broader financial firewall to fight the debt crisis.  “The fund has to play a mainly catalytic role now because
it’s already overexposed in Greece and Greece is highly
problematic,” Paul Nogueira Batista, who represents  Brazil  and
eight other nations on the IMF board, said in an interview today
in Mexico City. The IMF should provide “some modest additional
financing, very modest.”  The U.S., as the IMF’s biggest shareholder, is pushing back
against European calls for the fund to play a bigger role in
tackling the euro-area debt crisis now in its third year.  Europe has “more work to do,” and “until we see that, I
think it’s unlikely you’re going to see the major shareholders
of the IMF be prepared to have the IMF play a larger response,”
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in an interview 
with CNBC yesterday.  Heeding Member Calls  With about $108 billion already promised to euro-region
countries including Portugal and Ireland, Lagarde must heed
members’ calls to limit its commitments to the currency bloc,
said Thomas Costerg, a European economist with Standard
Chartered Bank in  London . IMF participation is “one of the main
uncertainties of this Greek deal,” Costerg said in a Feb. 21
interview.  The IMF will seek to keep its credit to Greece under the
new bailout package at 30 billion euros, including money still
owed from a first loan, an IMF official said Feb. 22.  IMF loans to Greece and the level of participation of
private bondholders in a voluntary debt swap are matters still
to be resolved as Europe’s most indebted nation battles to avert
default. Greece’s government formally asked investors on Feb. 24
ago to exchange their holdings of government debt for new
securities in the biggest sovereign restructuring in history.  Greece remains “unique” and private-sector involvement in
resolving the debt crisis won’t be extended to  Portugal , said
European Central Bank Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen.  “As far as PSI is concerned, Greece is a unique case --
there are clear reasons to be of the opinion that Portugal is
different from Greece,” Asmussen told Bloomberg News today in
Mexico City, where he was attending a meeting of Group of 20
finance ministers and central bank governors. “The euro area is
a safe place to invest for international investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Mexico City via  srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  