-- India Road-Building Hits Record as Builders Pay to Work: Freight
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-02-27T10:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/india-highway-building-hits-record-pace-as-contactors-pay-to-work-freight.html
India  is awarding highway-
construction contracts at a record pace, and saving taxpayers
money, as builders stop asking for subsidies and instead offer
fees to lay and operate new toll roads.  Competition among builders such as  GMR Infrastructure Ltd. (GMRI) ,
Larsen & Toubro Ltd. and  IRB Infrastructure Developers Ltd. (IRB)  has
helped the  National Highways Authority of India  win payments, or
premiums, for at least 23 of the 35 projects it has offered
since April 1, said G. Suresh, its chief general manager for
finance. He didn’t elaborate. The body will award tenders for
7,300 kilometer-lanes of highways this fiscal year, worth about
570 billion rupees ($12 billion), and 9,000 kilometers next
year.  “Many of the projects where we thought we’ll have to pay
subsidies, we actually got premiums,” said B.K. Chaturvedi, who
headed a government committee on highway development and a
member of the state Planning Commission. “It’s a good thing
there’s competition.”  Construction companies have stepped up bids for highways as
growing vehicle ownership is spurring traffic and because of a
slowdown in other sectors such as building  power plants . The
work will improve  roads (LT)  ranked worse than Botswana’s by the
 World Economic Forum  and ease congestion that contributes to
about 440 billion rupees of harvested foods going to waste each
year, according to government estimates.  “India’s road network is barely adequate to maintain its
current growth trajectory,” said Shailesh Kanani, an analyst
with Angel Broking Ltd. in Mumbai. “Positively, the political
will to acknowledge and address this issue is now visible.”  $1 Trillion Spending  India’s investments in roads could rise to $145 billion in
the five years to 2017 from about $69.8 billion in the previous
five years, according to a PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. study.
The country plans to spend a total of $1 trillion on roads,
railways, airports and other infrastructure in the period.  The national highway system, a predominately two-lane
network linking major cities, carries 65 percent of India’s
freight and 80 percent of passenger traffic. In about six years
through October 2011, the highway agency oversaw  5,182
kilometers  of construction, including new highways and
improvements.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  in August 2009 set a goal of
building 20 kilometers of highways a day. The nation has added
823 kilometers, or about 2 kilometers a day, since then as
construction slowed, Tushar A. Chaudhary, junior road transport
and highways minister, told lawmakers in parliament Dec. 12.  Tenders Online  Construction is now speeding up, partly because the agency
has made it easier for builders to compete for projects by
accepting tenders online and by creating a list of prequalified
bidders. Winning bidders get to collect tolls for as long as 30
years before transferring the highways to the state, Suresh
said. Toll fees are decided by the National Highways Authority.  The highways have become more lucrative for builders and
the government as the rising number of cars and trucks boosts
traffic and tolls. India’s car sales in the year ended in March
jumped 30 percent, the biggest gain in at least nine years,
according to  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers . Sales
may triple to more than six million by 2018, Rothschild forecast
in a December report.  “Traffic risk is something to be taken on by the
developer,” said Virendra Mhaiskar, chairman of IRB
Infrastructure, which has constructed roads including the
Mumbai-Pune highway. If the builder is confident of generating
enough tolls to cover costs and make a profit, it can offer the
extra anticipated funds to the government as premiums to secure
the contract, he said.  Overestimating Traffic  Builders run the risk of overestimating future traffic and
tolls, which could cause them to pledge unprofitable levels of
fees, said Parvesh Minocha, managing director, transport
division at  Feedback Infrastructure Services Pvt. , which advises
clients on construction projects.  “The premium bids are increasingly becoming a cause for
worry,” he said. “The worry will start manifesting a couple of
years down the line when you have to give the NHAI what you
promised and also put in money to build the roads.”  L&T, the nation’s biggest engineering company, decides to
make premium bids for projects based on factors including
traffic expectations, competition from other roads, the type of
traffic the highway will attract and the ease of construction,
said  S.N. Subrahmanyan , director and senior executive vice
president of its construction division. He didn’t say how much
premiums the company has so far paid.  The builder  fell  3.5 percent to 1,301.9 rupees at close of
Mumbai trading. It’s fallen 14 percent in the past year. IRB
Infrastructure declined 2.9 percent and GMR Infrastructure
dropped 5.3 percent today.  Reliance, Adani  Builders may also be chasing road projects to help
replenish orderbooks amid a slowdown in power-plant orders, said
Manish Agarwal, an  executive director  at the Indian unit of PwC.
 Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR) , Adani Power Ltd. and other electricity
generators have delayed building $36 billion of power stations
because of concerns about coal supply.  L&T, based in Mumbai, has orders to build 100 billion
rupees of roads, Subrahmanyan said. The builder boosted the
number of road projects to 7,171 lane-kilometers in the first
nine months of this fiscal year from 5,701 lane-kilometers a
year ago, according to company presentations on its website. The
number of power projects remained unchanged at 5 during this
period.  Power Plants  That means power plants now account for 29 percent of L&T’s
orderbook, compared with 37 percent a year ago. Roads and other
building projects’ share has jumped to 40 percent from 32
percent.  “For investors, a company’s valuation seems to be driven
by its orderbook,” said Agarwal. “If a company wins a bid,
they see it as fantastic.”  Welspun Infratech Ltd., a unit of JPMorgan Chase & Co.-
backed  Welspun Corp. (WLCO) , has won road projects worth 10 billion
rupees since 1999, including a 185-kilometer stretch in the
central Indian state of  Madhya Pradesh , without offering
premiums, said Assistant Vice President Rajeev Kumar. Still, the
company is willing to offer fees.  “We aren’t averse to offering a premium to win a deal,”
he said. “If the deal is good, why not?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  