-- Japan Urges Bigger Euro-Crisis Firewall Before G-20 in April
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-02-26T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/japan-urges-bigger-euro-crisis-firewall-before-g-20-in-april.html
Jun Azumi,  Japan ’s finance minister,
wants  Europe  to widen measures preventing the spread of its debt
crisis before global finance chiefs reconvene to discuss the
International Monetary Fund’s expansion in April.  “We expect talks on expanding IMF resources will develop
on the premise that we can create a solution to the European
crisis ahead of the G-20 meeting in April,” Azumi told
reporters after attending a meeting of finance chiefs and
central bank governors in  Mexico .  Group of 20 finance officials shared the view Europe must 
do more to contain its crisis as the two-day meeting kicked off
on Feb. 25, Azumi said.  Greece ’s second bailout and the  Bank of
Japan ’s easing measures this month have helped to weaken the yen,
reducing concerns about the country’s corporate profits and an
economic recovery from last year’s record earthquake.  “Japan has its own interest in the European crisis as it
has been a major reason for the yen’s appreciation,”  Takahide Kiuchi , chief economist at Nomura Securities Co., said before
the meeting. “G-20 members seem to be on the same page: Europe
needs to do more and then they are ready to help.”  More Effort Needed  The U.S. and China have also said the world’s two largest
economies want to see more effort from Europe before discussing
details of IMF resources. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  urged Europe in a speech to step up its actions and
make its crisis-fighting commitments “credible.”  Japan’s finance chief said G-20 nations didn’t discuss
details of how to help Europe through the IMF at the Feb. 25
session, after the fund proposed last month to boost its lending
by as much as $500 billion to insulate the global economy
against any deterioration of Europe’s sovereign crisis.  The region has to boost its European Financial Stability
Facility and European Stability Mechanism for Japan to step up
help in the region, Azumi said. He didn’t discuss specifics of
IMF expansion during bilateral meetings with Geithner and IMF
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde , Azumi said.  “We have some things we need to keep discussing,” Azumi
said of European support through the IMF. What the IMF expects
Japan and  China  to do to help increase its resources, and what
Japan and China think isn’t completely matched, he said without
elaborating on the differences.  Japan and China agreed to cooperate to assist Europe in
solving its debt crisis through the IMF, and share the view that
Europe needs to create a bigger financial firewall, Azumi said
in Beijing on Feb. 19.  Japan Concerns Ease  A European agreement for a 130 billion euro bailout plan
for Greece last week and the Bank of Japan’s unexpected action
on Feb. 14 to increase buying of  government bonds  by 10 trillion
yen have helped the yen to weaken and boosted Japanese stocks.  The yen touched 81.22 against the dollar last week, the
weakest since July 8, after it rose to a post World War II high
of 75.35 in October. Japan has conducted six interventions to
address the yen appreciation since August, according to the
latest government reports.  While measures including the most recent Greece bailout are
helping ease investor concerns, “I pointed out there is a limit
to the length of time policies can buy,”  Bank of Japan (8301)  Masaaki Shirakawa said in the joint press conference with Azumi. “I
urged continuous efforts to create a clear path” to address the
debt problems at the G-20 meeting, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 