-- Japan’s Noda Pays First Visit to Okinawa to Discuss U.S. Base
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-02-26T03:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/japan-s-noda-pays-first-visit-to-okinawa-to-discuss-u-s-base.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  travels to Okinawa today, his first visit as the nation’s
leader, to discuss a dispute over relocating a U.S. military
base.  Noda’s two-day trip includes a planned meeting with
Governor Hirokazu Nakaima to discuss ways of reducing Okinawa’s
financial burden and spurring its economy, Chief Cabinet
Secretary Osamu Fujimura said Feb. 24.  Japan  earlier this month
agreed to the shift of thousands of U.S. troops to Guam from
Okinawa, which hosts the bulk of the American military presence
in Japan.  Noda, in office since September, has been no more
successful than his predecessors in persuading locals to accept
relocating the Marine Corps Air Station Futenma to Camp Schwab,
near the town of Henoko. Citing crime and pollution, residents
have repeatedly demanded it be moved elsewhere.  The dispute led to the 2010 resignation of Prime Minister
 Yukio Hatoyama  after he submitted to U.S. pressure to confirm
the move. Noda was forced to replace his defense minister after
a ministry official was fired for comparing the relocation to
rape, evoking memories of a 1995 sexual assault on an Okinawan
schoolgirl by three American soldiers.  Realignment  The Feb. 8 agreement separates the troop shift from the
base issue. The U.S. and Japan have “agreed to delink the
movement of Marines to Guam” from progress on replacing
Futenma,  George Little , a Pentagon spokesman, said on the day in
an e-mailed statement.  Both countries are continuing discussions on the next steps
and ways to “mitigate the impact of the Marine presence on the
Okinawan people,” Little wrote. “It’s premature to discuss
troop numbers or specific locations associated with the
relocation of Marines from Okinawa,” until negotiations between
U.S. and Japan are complete, he said.  Guam  will continue to be developed as a “strategic hub
with an operational Marine Corps presence,” Little said.  As part of a 2006 agreement with Japan, 8,000 Marines and
9,000 dependents were to be transferred from Okinawa almost
1,500 miles (2,414 kilometers) south to Guam by 2014.  Japan spends about 188 billion yen ($2.3 billion) a year to
host 38,000 American military personnel and 43,000 dependents as
part of a 52-year security treaty. More than 75 percent of the
bases are on Okinawa, about 950 miles south of  Tokyo .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  