-- N.Z. Unexpectedly Posts Trade Deficit on Weaker Exports, Aircraft Imports
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-02-26T22:52:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/n-z-unexpectedly-posts-trade-deficit-on-weaker-exports-aircraft-imports.html
New Zealand  unexpectedly posted a
trade deficit in January as exports fell and an airline imported
a large aircraft, weakening the local currency.  Imports exceeded exports by NZ$199 million ($167 million),
from a revised NZ$306 million surplus in December,  Statistics
New Zealand  said today in Wellington. Economists expected a
NZ$167 million surplus, according to the median of 10 forecasts
in a Bloomberg News survey.  The local dollar’s 11.4 percent rise from a year ago, the
biggest gainer among the Group of 10 currencies, is curbing
shipments abroad just as the nation is counting on exports to
boost an economic recovery from earthquakes in the South Island
city of Christchurch.  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand Governor Alan Bollard last month said that exchange-rate appreciation was
reducing exporters’ returns.  “The high currency will choke off export-sector returns
and will impede the economic rebalancing,”  Mark Smith , an
economist at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Wellington, said in an e-
mailed note. “While January’s statement highlighted the RBNZ’s
concerns over the strong dollar, there is little they can do
about it.”  The so-called kiwi traded at 83.71 U.S. cents at 11:35 a.m.
in Wellington compared with 83.81 cents before the data were
released. The nation’s currency gained 6.4 percent last month
against the  U.S. dollar , the largest monthly gain since May
2009.  November Aircraft  The aircraft import, valued at about NZ$214 million, was
the second in three months. The statistics agency today
published a revised, wider November trade deficit after an
imported aircraft worth NZ$224 million which was reported late.  Exports fell to a four-month low of NZ$3.74 billion, near
the NZ$3.7 billion median of economists estimates. Exports rose
13 percent from a year earlier.  Commodity prices rose 0.1 percent in January from a year
earlier, according to an  ANZ National Bank (NBL)  index published Feb.
2. After adjustment for currency gains, prices fell 4.4 percent
from a year earlier.  The Treasury Department said Feb. 7 that there is a risk of
growth in the nation’s main trading partners being weaker this
year than predicted in forecasts published late October, citing
the impact of  Europe ’s debt crisis on global demand.  Dairy Demand  Overseas sales of milk powder, butter and cheese, which
make up a third of the all exports, increased 25 percent in
January from the year-earlier month to NZ$1.3 billion. December
dairy sales were a record NZ$1.35 billion.  Imports fell to a six-month low of NZ$3.94 billion, today’s
report showed. Economists predicted NZ$3.51 billion. From a year
earlier, imports rose 19 percent.  Crude oil shipments gained 39 percent from January last
year as the price rose by more than a fifth, today’s report
showed. Vehicle purchases also increased while machinery imports
fell.  New Zealand had a trade surplus of NZ$646 million in the 12
months ended Jan. 31, narrowing from a revised NZ$853 million
surplus in the year through December but wider than a revised
NZ$330 million in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  