-- Nobody Wants TMX With 198% Return on Maple Bid: Real M&A
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-02-26T18:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/nobody-wants-tmx-with-198-return-on-maple-bid-real-m-a.html
Not even the prospect of reaping a
198 percent annualized return in one month can dissuade traders
from betting that the $3.73 billion takeover of  TMX Group Inc. (X) 
is more likely to unravel than any other deal in  North America .  TMX, owner of the Toronto Stock Exchange, is trading 15
percent below a C$50-a-share offer from 13 Canadian banks and
pension funds known as Maple Group Acquisition Corp. The gap is
the widest of any billion-dollar deal in the U.S. or Canada,
indicating traders aren’t convinced Maple can get the approvals
it needs even after the group extended its Feb. 29 deadline by a
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While Canada’s largest pension fund said last week that it
is optimistic the Maple bid will be approved, the nation’s
competition watchdog has raised “serious concerns” about
combining the country’s largest exchange with its biggest rival
to create an entity that controls 87 percent of trading and
clears every transaction. If the TMX deal fails, it would join
more than $30 billion in announced takeovers, including  Deutsche
Boerse AG (DB1) ’s agreement for  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , which have already been
terminated or blocked by regulators in the past year.  “We go back to the issues from day one,” said Yemi Oshodi,
managing director of M&A and special situations trading at New
York-based WallachBeth Capital LLC, said in a telephone
interview. For the deal to be approved, “you would need a
substantial package of divestitures to create some other
competitor. I just can’t see them offering enough concessions to
the regulators to assuage their concerns,” he said.  An extension would be “just a glimmer of hope, because
what’s another month going to do?” said Oshodi, who estimates
the odds that Maple can close the deal at about 15 percent.  ‘Material Detriment’  Peter Block , a spokesman for Maple, declined to comment
beyond its Feb. 24 statement, which extended the group’s
takeover offer to  TMX shareholders  to March 30.  “Maple and TMX Group are committed to the transaction and
are working diligently to obtain the required regulatory
approvals,” it said. “They are in ongoing discussions with the
regulators and have made numerous submissions to them.”  “However, there can be no assurance that remedies short of
a material detriment will address the issues and concerns raised
by the securities regulatory authorities,” the statement said.  Carolyn Quick, a spokeswoman for Toronto-based TMX,
declined to comment on when the transaction would be completed.  Maple, made up of firms including  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,
 Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)  and the  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan ,
began its C$3.73 billion ($3.73 billion) bid nine months ago,
when it challenged an agreement that TMX and London Stock
Exchange Group Plc announced in February 2011.  One-Stop Shop  The group , which sought to keep the Toronto exchange owner
in local hands, was left as the only bidder after London-based
LSE failed to get support from TMX owners and dropped its stock
offer on June 29.  Maple intends to acquire 70 percent to 80 percent of TMX in
cash and the rest with Maple stock. It also plans to buy  Alpha
Group , an alternative trading platform that competes with TMX,
and the Canadian Depository for Securities Ltd., which protects
buyers and sellers from losses if one party is unable to pay as
the nation’s securities clearinghouse, to integrate into TMX.  The combined entity would handle almost  nine  out of every
10 equity trades in  Canada  and have a monopoly on processing the
country’s securities transactions.  While  Michael Sabia , chief executive officer of Montreal-
based Caisse de Depot et Placement du  Quebec , said he’s “quite
optimistic” that its group’s takeover of TMX will be approved
by regulators, merger arbitragers remain more skeptical of its
completion than any other acquisition in North America.  Merger Arbitrage  With TMX ending at  C$42.60 a share  last week, the
difference between its price and the cash portion of Maple’s
deal offer is now C$7.40, data compiled by Bloomberg show. On a
percentage basis, shares of TMX trade at the biggest discount to
its takeover bid among all pending deals in the U.S. or Canada
worth $1 billion or more, the data show.  Maple has now pushed back its offer deadline five times
since proposing to buy the Toronto exchange owner in May. If the
deal isn’t cleared by regulators, the group is required to pay
TMX C$39 million. The transaction still needs approval from
Canada’s  Competition Bureau  and provincial regulators including
those in Quebec and Ontario.  Alexa Keatinge, a spokeswoman for the Competition Bureau,
said in an e-mailed statement last week in response to comments
from Caisse de Depot’s CEO that “there are no new developments
to report regarding the Bureau’s ongoing review of Maple’s
proposed acquisitions at this time.”  Deal Breaker  Keatinge declined to make any further comment on when it
will reach a decision on Maple’s takeover proposal.  The Competition Bureau said on Nov. 29 that it had
“serious concerns about the likely competitive effects of the
proposed transactions in the current environment, primarily in
connection with equities trading and clearing and settlement
services in Canada.”  While Maple and TMX said at the time that they would work
with the Competition Bureau and identify possible “remedial
measures,” Maple’s Luc Bertrand said on Dec. 1 that removing
the clearinghouse or the bank-owned trading platform from its
takeover proposal would be a deal breaker.  If the Maple deal collapses, it will be the fifth time in
less than a year that an exchange takeover failed after the
biggest wave of industry consolidation led to almost $40 billion
in announced acquisitions. In April, Australia’s government
scuttled  Singapore  Exchange Ltd.’s bid for Sydney-based ASX Ltd.  Regulatory Hurdles  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  of  New York  and
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. in Atlanta dropped their hostile
offer for NYSE Euronext in May after U.S. regulators signaled
they would block it. A month later, LSE’s deal for TMX crumbled.  On Feb. 1, European Union regulators vetoed Frankfurt-based
 Deutsche Boerse ’s takeover of NYSE Euronext of New York to
create the world’s biggest exchange after concluding that the
$9.5 billion acquisition would hurt competition and lead to a
“near-monopoly” in the region’s exchange-traded derivatives.  The Maple bid “would be very unlikely to be approved in
either in  Europe  or the  United States ,”  Edward Ditmire , a New
York-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., said in a telephone
interview. “It’s extremely speculative.”  Sachin Shah, a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based merger
arbitrage strategist at Tullett Prebon Plc, says investors are
underestimating the possibility that regulators and Maple will
agree to conditions that mitigate antitrust concerns and still
allow the group to keep its trading and clearing businesses.  Maple said last week that it and TMX have proposed a
pricing model for its clearing business, as well as remedies to
address concerns on equities trading to regulators.  Flightless Existence  “A lot of the conditions will have this hands-off
policy,” Shah said in a telephone interview. “The chances are
very high that a deal gets approved.”  Traders who purchase TMX shares now stand to almost triple
their profit on an annualized basis if the deal closes by the
end of March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Without
taking into account when the transaction would be completed, the
arbitrage profit is 17 percent, the data show.  Will Harrington, a New York-based merger arbitrage analyst
at Wall Street Access, says Maple is unlikely to win approval,
especially after exchanges from New York to Frankfurt and
Singapore were prevented from merging with other venues because
of antitrust or national interest objections from regulators.  “It could go the way of the dodo,” he said in a telephone
interview, referring to the  flightless bird  in Mauritius that
was driven to extinction in the late 17th century. “It feels
like all the exchange deals right now are dead in the water.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scanlan  at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 