-- Nokia Siemens in Talks to Sell Fixed-Line Assets
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-02-27T09:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/nokia-siemens-is-in-talks-over-sale-of-non-core-assets-ceo-says.html
Nokia Siemens Networks, the phone
equipment venture between Nokia Oyj and  Siemens AG (SIE) , is in talks
with potential buyers of its non-core assets, Chief Executive
Officer Rajeev Suri said in an interview.  Nokia Siemens, which competes with Ericsson AB and  Alcatel-
Lucent (ALU)  as well as Chinese vendors such as Huawei Technologies
Co., expects more divestments after it sold three divisions last
quarter to refocus its business on mobile broadband, Suri said
at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona.  “We are already negotiating with buyers to sell some
assets,” Suri said yesterday in the interview. “We are taking
other assets into maintenance mode, shifting investments out
into other segments.”  Ericsson AB is not interested in the buying assets Nokia
Siemens has put up for sale, as it focuses on organic growth,
Hans Vestberg, CEO of the Stockholm-based rival, said in a
separate interview at the  Mobile World Congress  today.  “Our main strategy is organic growth. We want to grow with
our research and development,” Vestberg said. “We are always
looking around for different types of assets, but today I don’t
have any interest in that portfolio,” he said.  ‘Perfect Voice’  Nokia Siemens’s voice-over-Internet-protocol unit called
“perfect voice,” carrier ethernet, fixed narrowband and
business support systems are among assets the Espoo, Finland-
based company is looking for acquirers, CEO Suri said.  Suri said in November that Nokia Siemens would scale back
product lines to concentrate on mobile broadband networks and
services to become profitable. The venture has posted  losses  in
all but two quarters since it was set up in April 2007.  Nokia Siemens  sold  its microwave unit to  Canada ’s
DragonWave, the WiMax business to NewNet Communications in the
U.S., and a fixed-line operation to Adtran in the U.S. in the
fourth quarter of 2011.  Nokia Siemens has set a strategy of reducing annual costs
by 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion). The telecom equipment maker
said in November it would eliminate 17,000 jobs worldwide,
equivalent to about 23 percent of its workforce, by the end of
2013.  Union Negotiations  Nokia Siemens is negotiating with trade unions in countries
affected by the cuts, Suri said. He declined to say when an
agreement would be reached in Germany and  Finland .  Shares (NOK1V)  of Nokia fell 5.5 percent, to 4.09 euros in
Helsinki. The handset maker unveiled in Barcelona a Windows
Phone that’s 30 percent cheaper than its least expensive model
based on Windows’s software to capture first-time users against
similar devices powered by Google Inc.’s Android. Siemens, based
in Munich, slipped 1 percent to 74.25 euros on the Frankfurt
exchange.  Ericsson (ERICB)  dropped 1.6 percent to 66.60 euros in  Stockholm .
The company announced today it would team up with  Western Union
Co. (WU)  to market a mobile wallet service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Barcelona via 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  