-- Hollywood Should Beat Digital Pirates at Their Own Game: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-26T15:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/hollywood-should-beat-digital-pirates-at-their-own-game-view.html
It seems cosmically appropriate that
gambling house odds are on “The Artist” to win this year’s
Academy Award for best picture. The Weinstein Co.’s paean to the
end of the silent movie era is an apt metaphor for an industry
upended by new technologies.  Whether or not “The Artist” gets an  Oscar  statuette, the
film can teach Hollywood an important lesson: Once technical
barriers are broken, they can never be rebuilt. The arrival of
talkies required the industry to rethink an antiquated business
model. This time the existential threat -- the one that should
compel Hollywood to rethink its business model anew -- is the
ability of digital pirates to bypass the industry’s distribution
system.  Studio executives and their Washington lobbyists continue
to hope that Congress will adopt a revamped version of the  Stop
Online Piracy Act , the legislation that was withdrawn in the
face of opposition from the technology industry. The measure
would have enabled studios to shut down pirate websites located
overseas and out of reach of U.S. law enforcement. But SOPA’s
provisions -- requiring law-abiding  search engines  and websites
to deny copyright infringers access to credit-card payment
systems and search listings -- would have darkened pirate sites
only temporarily. They would have quickly popped up elsewhere in
a game of digital whack-a-mole.  Megaupload Model  Perhaps perversely, one infamous pirate site, Megaupload,
could provide a model for the  film industry ’s future. Though the
site was shut down by authorities in January, the Megaupload
cyberlocker (cloud-servers that store movies and other large
data files too big to e-mail) was one of the 100 most popular
websites in the world. Megaupload claimed 150 million registered
users with an average of 50 million visitors a day. Over seven
years, a U.S. Justice Department complaint says, it pulled in
$175 million (with just 30 employees) distributing mostly stolen
films. Clearly, there are millions of film buffs eager to watch
movies when and where they desire, not when a studio dictates.  Kim Dotcom, the mastermind of Megaupload, awaits
extradition to the U.S. We have no intention of glorifying his
methods, regardless of whether the courts find Megaupload to be
a criminal enterprise. Hollywood films are proprietary content
and deserve to be treated as such. But the market is all but
screaming at  film industry  executives to change their ways and
honor consumer demand.  Studios should abandon their tightly controlled
distribution system, in which a film is released serially to
U.S. movie theaters, overseas theaters, pay-per-view television,
DVDs and network TV. The industry now makes most of its money
from overseas releases and DVD sales, and is fearful that
simultaneous digital releases on all platforms in all markets
will kill the golden goose that produces blockbuster hits -- and
profits.  Why can’t the film industry compete on the basis of price
and service, and beat the pirates at their own game? A fully
monetized, legitimate version of Megaupload, paired with lower-
cost digital filmmaking, could expand markets and revenue for
the film industry. Hollywood could still produce its
blockbusters and reap the rewards of the mass market. (If the
VCR didn’t kill off cinemas, digital distribution won’t either.)
The industry might also develop valuable niches that bypass the
local multiplex. Older audiences, for example, might be willing
to watch more films if they could pay less for each viewing and
watch in the comfort of their own homes.  UltraViolet’s Proposition  Netflix (NFLX) , which streams movies to TVs and personal computers
for a monthly subscription, has been a breakthrough, but it
isn’t the only digital distribution model.  Warner Bros . is
testing a service with You On Demand Holdings that streams
movies to consumers in  China , where the studios complain that
copyright violations are a way of life. Warner and other
Hollywood studios have also quietly formed a consortium in the
U.S., called  UltraViolet , to distribute content digitally. It’s
the right approach but the process is still clumsy, and the
value proposition is undermined by fears that the studios aren’t
fully behind it.  The industry should move beyond baby steps. Surveys show
that iTunes, Spotify and other music websites have turned
millions of music pirates into paying customers. The  movie
industry  should give film buffs the same opportunity to go
legit.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 