-- Ovarian Stem Cells Produce Eggs in Method That May Aid Fertility
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-02-27T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/ovarian-stem-cells-produce-eggs-in-method-that-may-aid-fertility-therapy.html
Stem cells  taken from human ovaries
were used to produce early-stage eggs by scientists in  Boston 
who may have created a new method to help infertile women.  Females have a fixed number of eggs from birth that are
depleted by the time of menopause. The finding, published today
in the journal  Nature Medicine , challenges the belief that their
ovaries can’t make more. The research was led by  Jonathan Tilly ,
the director of Massachusetts General Hospital’s  Vincent Center
for Reproductive Biology .  Tilly  reported  in 2004 that ovarian stem cells in mice
create new eggs, or oocytes, in a way similar to how stem cells
in male testes produce sperm throughout a man’s life. His latest
work, if reproduced, would suggest the same is true for human
ovaries, potentially pointing at new ways to aid fertility by
delaying when the ovaries stop functioning.  “The 50-year-old belief in our field wasn’t actually based
on data proving it was impossible, or not ongoing,” Tilly said
in a telephone interview. “It was simply an assumption made
because there was no evidence indicating otherwise. We have
human cells that can produce new oocytes.”  In the study, healthy ovaries were obtained from consenting
patients undergoing sex reassignment surgery. The researchers
were able to identify ovarian stem cells because they express a
rare protein that’s only seen in reproductive cells.  The stem cells from the ovaries were injected into human
ovarian tissue that was then grafted under the skin of mice,
which provided the blood supply that enabled growth. Within two
weeks, early stage human follicles with oocytes had formed.  7-Million Eggs  A female is most endowed with oocytes, or eggs, as a fetus,
when she has about 7 million. That number that drops to 1
million by birth, and around 300,000 by puberty. By menopause,
the number is zero. Since the 1950’s, scientists thought that
ovarian stem cells capable of producing new eggs are only active
during fetal development.  “This paper essentially opens the door to the ability to
control oocyte development in human ovaries,” Tilly said.  About 10 percent of women of child-bearing age in the U.S.,
or 6.1 million, have  difficulty getting pregnant  or staying
pregnant, according to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. Most cases of female infertility are caused by
problems with ovulation, hormone imbalance or age.  The study by Tilley and his colleagues offers “a new model
system for understanding the human egg cell,” said  David F.
Albertini , director of the Center for Reproductive Services and
professor in the department of molecular and integrative
physiology at Kansas University, in a telephone interview.  ‘Practical Applications”  Still, “there’s a long way to go before this has real
practical applications. I’ve spent 35 years of my life studying
egg cells and this is a cell that is at least as complicated as
a neuron in the brain, if not more,” Albertini said.  The work needs to be reproduced and expanded by other
scientists “to make it into something that will make us
confident the cells are safe to use and we could actually use
them to repopulate an egg-depleted ovary,” he said.  Tilly’s team is exploring the development of an ovarian
stem-cell bank that can be cryogenically frozen and thawed
without damage, unlike human eggs, he said. The researchers are
also working to identify hormones and other growth factors for
accelerating production of eggs from human ovarian stem cells
and ways to improve in-vitro fertilization.  “The problem we face with IVF is we don’t have many eggs
to work with,” he said. “These cells are renewable. If we are
successful -- and it’s a big if -- in generating functioning
eggs from these cells, we can generate as many eggs as we need
to on a per patient basis.”  Tilly is also collaborating with researchers at the
 University of Edinburgh  in the U.K. to determine whether the
oocytes can be developed into fully mature human eggs for
fertilizing. The U.S  bans  creating or fertilizing embryos for
experimental purposes, he said.  A company Tilly co-founded, Boston-based OvaScience Inc.,
has licensed the technology for potential commercial
applications.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  