-- RIM Chief Counts on Europe Sales in Race to Debut Platform
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-02-27T07:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/rim-chief-counts-on-europe-sales-in-race-to-debut-new-platform.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , whose U.S.
sales plunged 45 percent last quarter, is counting on Europe to
regain ground lost to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  as the
BlackBerry maker races to introduce a new operating system.  Thorsten Heins, who took the top job at RIM last month,
heads to Barcelona for the Mobile World Congress this week to
convince carriers he has the products European consumers want.
His challenge is to bolster market share in the region, where
sales in the U.K., for example, have begun to drop.  “In Europe,  Asia , the  Middle East ,  Latin America ,
BlackBerry is a very strong brand, a leading brand -- we can
really rely on that,” Heins, a 54-year-old German who spent
more than two decades at  Siemens AG (SIE)  before joining RIM in 2007,
said in an interview at the RIM’s headquarters in Waterloo,
Ontario, before leaving for Barcelona. ‘That doesn’t mean we
don’t have to earn this every day again. We have to do that.’’  BlackBerry demand has  held up better  in markets such as the
Netherlands and the U.K. than in the U.S., where sales tumbled
as American consumers and businesses opted for Apple’s iPhone
and touch-screen devices built on Google’s Android software.
While RIM made its name by targeting Washington politicians and
Wall Street bankers, Europe’s portion of its sales has increased
to about a third, said Matt Thornton, an analyst at Avian
Securities LLC in  Boston .  “The brand is still stronger in Europe than it is here,”
Thornton said.  ‘Treading Water’  Still, a lack of new BlackBerry models is making Heins’s
job tougher and threatens to undermine RIM’s position in Europe,
Thornton said. In Barcelona, Heins will show a new version of
the PlayBook tablet and smartphones introduced six months ago,
while seeking to build excitement about new BlackBerrys coming
on the BB10 platform in the latter part of the year, Thornton
said.  That leaves RIM vulnerable to attacks by rivals such as
 Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , Samsung Electronics Co. and  HTC Corp. (2498) , which are
preparing to showcase newer models at the Barcelona event
starting tomorrow. Samsung and HTC’s latest models run Android
and include larger screens than the BlackBerry, and Nokia is
displaying handsets using Microsoft Corp.’s Windows software,
marking the first time the Finnish company is showing new
products at the trade show in three years.  While RIM says the BlackBerry is still the top-selling
smartphone in the U.K., its sales in the country fell to $588
million last quarter from $685 million a year earlier.  Messaging Success  The traction RIM is retaining in Europe is mostly due to
cheaper  devices  such as the Curve, according to Thornton.  “Even in Europe, they’re just kind of treading water
now,” Thornton said. “It’s not the high-end stuff that’s
working for them there, it’s the Curve and lower-end phones.”  In a speech to BlackBerry developers in Amsterdam last
month, Heins opened his remarks by pointing out where BlackBerry
is the top prepaid smartphone or top smartphone overall, reeling
off the Netherlands, the U.K.,  Spain  as well as  Saudi Arabia ,
 Kuwait , the United Arab Emirates and  South Africa .  “When I was in Dubai launching the  Porsche (PAH3)  product, I kind
of thought I was in a different world,” he said in the
interview, referring to a BlackBerry model custom designed by
luxury-car maker Porsche SE. “People coming up saying, ‘‘Oh,
great, Blackberry is super! You guys, rock and roll!’ I don’t
hear this in  North America , a lot.”  U.K. Strength  RIM had 8.5 million subscribers in the U.K. at the end of
last year and a 26 percent share of phone sales in December,
according to data from GfK released by RIM.  “In the U.K., they’ve done really well and in the
Netherlands, they’ve hit a home run; in Germany and France, not
so much,” said Tavis McCourt, an analyst at Morgan Keegan Inc.  Getting the BlackBerry Messenger messaging software, or
BBM, to catch on in the U.K. and Holland was key to that
success, said McCourt, who is based in Nashville and  rates  RIM
shares “market perform.”  Juliana Chavez, who works in  London  for a research center
into armed conflict, said she loves her “old” BlackBerry and
counts on the phone’s keyboard and BBM.  “I’m a real fan and would buy another,” Chavez, 32, said
in a central London park. “They had the free chat so I’d talk
to my friends and family in  Colombia  for free and the iPhone
didn’t initially have that.”  Worse for Browsing  Still, BBM wasn’t enough to keep users addicted to the
BlackBerry in the U.S. as the larger screens and faster Web
browsers of the iPhone and Android appealed to consumers. The
competition is beating RIM on Web-browsing, Chavez says, even as
she still plans to stick with her BlackBerry for messaging.  RIM’s U.S. smartphone market share dropped to 16 percent in
the three months through December from 19 percent in the
previous quarter, according to  ComScore Inc . In that time
Apple’s share rose to 30 percent from 27 percent and Android’s
climbed to 47 percent from 45 percent.  Heins is counting on four new BlackBerry models introduced
in September to catch on better in  Europe  than they have in the
U.S. He said last month that RIM needs to do a better job of
marketing the BlackBerry 7 phones and their improved browsers
and touch-screen navigation.  RIM shares have lost 13 percent since Heins became chief
executive officer Jan. 22 with the resignation of co-founders
and co-CEOs  Jim Balsillie  and Mike Lazaridis. The stock fell 9
percent on Jan. 23 alone after Heins said on a conference call
that “no drastic change” is needed at RIM.  Repeated Delays  He has since clarified his remarks, saying that the company
needs to do a much better job of focusing on what consumers want
in devices -- seamless Web browsing and more apps -- and get
better at delivering products on time.  A PlayBook software upgrade, which delivers dedicated e-
mail, calendar and contacts programs to the tablet, was pushed
out to BlackBerry users last week after repeated delays under
his predecessors’ management. Heins’s bigger challenge is to get
the next round of BlackBerry smartphones, using the new BB10
operating system, into stores before the year-end holiday
shopping season. Lazaridis said in December the first BB10
device would come out “in the latter part” of 2012.  While Heins has acknowledged that RIM was slow to embrace
the shift in importance of smartphone Web-browsing, he said he
is determined RIM will be at the forefront of changes to faster
LTE, or long-term evolution technology, where Europe lags the
U.S.  ’Play Hard’  “What we see here, we have to make sure we’re prepared for
what happens -- and what are we doing when it happens -- over
there,” he said, referring to Europe. “It will happen, the
other markets will follow the U.S. market. By then, I will be
ready to play hard.”  One thing playing for RIM’s advantage is the missteps of
former market leader Nokia, which have left Apple and Android
dominating the market. As long as Nokia is still struggling,
executives from European carriers that Heins meets with in
Barcelona will want him to succeed, McCourt said.  “Carriers around the globe, whether it’s Europe or the
U.S., would love to see another successful platform,” he said.
“They don’t want be just to be low-margin resellers of Apple
and Android.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  