-- Romney Says He Has the Momentum to Win Michigan Primary
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-02-27T05:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/romney-predicts-victory-in-michigan-as-voter-polls-show-gains-on-santorum.html
Republican presidential contender
 Mitt Romney  predicted that he will win the primary election in
his home state of  Michigan  tomorrow as polls show him gaining on
rival  Rick Santorum .  Romney cited a Rasmussen poll, released Feb. 24, that
showed him with a 6 percentage-point lead over Santorum. The
same poll more than a week ago showed Santorum with a 15-point
lead.  “That’ll be huge, having come from so far behind here in
Michigan,” the former Massachusetts governor said on the “Fox
News Sunday” program. “Obviously, the momentum is in the right
direction.”  A Romney loss in Michigan, where he spent his boyhood and
where his father,  George Romney , served as governor and an
automobile company chief executive officer, would be a blow to
his candidacy. Romney has been struggling to retain his front-
runner status since Santorum swept the Feb. 7 contests in
Colorado, Missouri and  Minnesota .  Romney, 64, leads in  Arizona , which will also hold a
primary tomorrow. Arizona’s Republican governor, Jan Brewer,
endorsed Romney yesterday during an appearance on NBC’s “Meet
the Press.”  “Mitt is by far the person who can go in and win,” Brewer
said.  Koran Burning  As tomorrow’s primaries approach, Santorum and Romney have
been attacking President  Barack Obama  and asserting their own
conservative credentials.  Both men, in talk show appearances yesterday, criticized
the president for apologizing for the burning of Korans by
American troops at Bagram Air Field near Kabul, which sparked
violent protests and led to the killing of two American military
advisers.  “A mistake was made -- he should not have apologized for
something that wasn’t done deliberately,” Santorum said on
ABC’s “This Week” program. “It shows weakness.”  Romney, on “Fox News Sunday,” said the president’s
apology “is very difficult for the American people to
countenance.”  Appearing on  CNN ’s “State of the Union,”  Robert Gibbs , a
senior adviser to the Obama campaign, defended the president.  Gibbs Defends Obama  Obama is trying to “diffuse the tension that’s there” so
that  Afghanistan  does not become a “safe haven” for al-Qaeda,
Gibbs said.  On domestic issues, Santorum, on “This Week,” criticized
a tax plan Romney released last week that would limit deductions
on top income earners. He compared the former Massachusetts
governor with the Occupy Wall Street protestors who have argued
that the top 1 percent of earners should pay more taxes.  Romney said on Fox his plan was aimed at helping the middle
class. “What I’m looking to do is lower the margin rate for all
Americans,” he said.  Romney also defended himself against a different charge:
that he is part of an out-of-touch elite. He drew criticism last
week when he casually mentioned during an appearance that his
wife, Ann, has two Cadillacs.  “We have a car in  California ; we have a car back in  Boston 
where our other home is,” Romney said on Fox. “If people think
there’s something wrong with being successful, they should vote
for the other guy.”  Romney’s Wealth  On that issue, Romney got some assistance from  New Jersey ’s
Republican Governor  Chris Christie , who appeared yesterday on
CBS’s “Face the Nation” program.  “The cat’s out of the bag, Bob, on the fact that the
governor’s wealthy,” Christie told host Bob Schieffer. “So he
has a number of cars. Many people who’ve made a lot of money
over time do.”  Santorum also defended comments he made Feb. 25, when he
called Obama a “snob” for saying all Americans should attend
college.  Colleges are a hostile place for people with conservative
political views, Santorum said on NBC yesterday.  “We have some real problems at our college campuses with
political correctness, with an ideology that is forced upon
people,” he said.  Both Santorum and Romney stressed their conservatism during
appearances yesterday. Santorum said on ABC that he doesn’t
believe in the separation of church and state, noting that a
speech on the topic by former President  John F. Kennedy  makes
him want to “throw up.”  Church and State  “I don’t believe that the separation of church and state
is absolute,” Santorum said. “The First Amendment means the
free exercise of religion and that means bringing people and
their faith into the public square.”  Romney said the biggest misconception about his candidacy
is that he “can’t be conservative.”  “I’m a solid conservative -- a committed conservative with
the kind of principles I think America needs,” he said.  A poll of Pennsylvania voters, released Feb. 25 by the
Institute for  Public Opinion  at Muhlenberg College, found that
Obama would beat former Pennsylvania Senator Santorum by 49
percent to 41 percent and would win against Romney by 48 percent
to 37 percent.  The poll, which was conducted in a telephone survey of 625
registered voters between Feb. 15 and 21 of this year, has a
margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points.  As Romney, Santorum, and other candidates struggle to build
support among Republican voters, political analysts have begun
asking whether it’s too late for someone else to get into the
race. Indiana Governor  Mitch Daniels , rumored as a possible
contender, said on “Fox News Sunday” that he won’t run.  “I crossed that decision bridge a long time ago,” he
said. “Running for president is something I never thought about
doing, and nothing’s changed my mind.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomerg.net 
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  