-- Senegal’s Wade May Win a Third Term Amid Deadly Protests Against His Rule
-- B y   R o s e   S k e l t o n
-- 2012-02-26T10:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/senegal-s-wade-may-win-a-third-term-amid-deadly-protests-against-his-rule.html
Voting began today in Senegal’s
presidential election, with incumbent  Abdoulaye Wade  vying for a
third term after violent protests that threaten to damage the
second-biggest economy in West Africa’s currency union.  The 85-year-old leader, Africa’s oldest after  Zimbabwe ’s
 Robert Mugabe , faces 13 candidates following a Jan. 27 ruling by
the Constitutional Court that  term limits  don’t apply to him.
Voting started at 8 a.m. Dakar time and ends at 6 p.m.,
according to the country’s electoral commission, which has until
March 2 to hand results to the court. A second round will be
held next month if no one wins 50 percent.  Senegal’s five decades of transition from a French colony
to a democratic state of 13.8 million people earned it plaudits
and aid from the U.S.,  Europe  and the  World Bank . Over the past
year, human-rights activists, opposition politicians and
protesters have been beaten and jailed and demonstrations have
been banned,  according  to U.K.-based  Amnesty International .  Wade “is the most likely victor in a second round run-
off,” said Jonathan Hyman, Africa analyst at the London-based
Economist Intelligence Unit. “With his prospective third term
given legal legitimacy, he has no need to heed vocal domestic
and international pressure to step aside.”  Demonstrations against Wade’s bid to extend his 12 years in
power have left at least nine people dead and dozens injured
since the court decision. Wade argued a change to the
constitution that limited presidential tenures to two didn’t
apply because it was enacted after he came to office.  ‘Potentially Volatile’  The situation is “potentially volatile and maybe
international investors seem to be of a similar view as they
tend to be underweight” on  Senegal ’s $500 million Eurobonds,
said  Stuart Culverhouse , chief economist at London-based
investment bank Exotix Ltd. Still, the yield on the debt due in
2021 has fallen to the lowest since Nov. 14, retreating 7.4
basis points to 8.693 percent late on Feb. 24, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  That is in step with other African bonds.  Ghana ’s $750
million debt due in 2017 traded at 6.146 percent, the lowest
since Sept. 13, while  Nigeria ’s $500 million notes due 2021
declined to 5.741 percent, the lowest since Aug. 4.  Growth, forecast at 4.5 percent this year by the
 International Monetary Fund , may slow, Hyman said in an emailed
response to questions. “If events somehow turn into a full-
scale revolution, then investment would dry up, there would be
supply shocks and the political scene would become uncertain,”
he said.  Incumbent’s Advantage  The electoral-affairs ministry is led by a member of Wade’s
ruling Parti Democratique Senegalaise. The vote results are
approved by the same court that endorsed Wade’s candidacy and it
is headed by a supporter of Wade, according to James Clinton Francis, a sub-Saharan Africa researcher with Eurasia Group Ltd.  “Wade’s incumbency gives him a considerable advantage in
terms of access to resources and influence over the electoral
process,” said Anna Osborne, senior analyst at Bath, U.K.-based
 Maplecroft , a risk-analysis company. “This includes his hold
over the  Constitutional Court  in the event of an opposition
appeal,” she said in an e-mailed response to questions Feb. 14.  The president also holds sway over religious leaders known
as marabouts, according to his spokesman, Serigne Mbacke Ndiaye.
“The spiritual powers and the governing powers always go
together,” Ndiaye said by phone Feb. 6.  Democratic History  Opposition groups have called on Wade to withdraw from the
race. “We believe that if he runs as a candidate, he will
publish results favorable to himself,” El Hadji Diouf,
spokesman for candidate Idrissa Seck’s Rewmi party, said by
phone Feb. 20.  Former prime ministers Seck and Macky Sall are likely to
face Wade in a runoff, said Abdou Fall, Senegal analyst at the
Institute for Security Studies in  Pretoria .  Senegal became independent from  France  in 1960 and is the
only country in mainland West  Africa  never to have experienced a
military coup. Wade defeated incumbent Abdou Diouf, who had
ruled Senegal for 19 years, in elections in 2000.  Diouf succeeded the country’s first president, Leopold Senghor, a poet who served in France’s parliament before
independence. He was a founder of the so-called negritude
literary and ideological movement that rejected colonialism and
promoted the self-affirmation of blacks and Africans.  Ivory Coast  Wade’s son, Karim, was appointed minister for energy,
international cooperation, regional development, air transport
and infrastructure following his defeat in 2009 in a race for
mayor of Dakar. He also oversaw Senegal’s hosting of the 2008
Organization of the Islamic Conference, which came under
question by politicians including Sall, 50.  “I came here today to do my duty as a citizen,” Assane
Samb, 37, a  taxi driver , said in Dakar.  “It’s going well for the moment, it’s well organised
here,” Mamadou Diakhate, 20, a bricklayer, said in Dakar. “I
think that Wade will win today.”  In the West African union’s biggest economy,  Ivory Coast , a
disputed presidential election in November 2010 led to five
months of violent clashes and an economic contraction of 5.8
percent, according to the IMF. The country also defaulted on its
$2.3 billion Eurobonds after missing a coupon payment.  “There will be post-electoral violence and instability
whatever the results, but it won’t last for a long time,” Fall,
at the Institute for Security Studies, said by phone on Feb. 16.  Religious Leaders  “The religious leaders in Touba and Tivaouane will call
for calm,” he said, referring to the country’s two main
religious cities. “Whatever the outcome, Wade will still be in
power.”  Alassane Ouattara , who won the Ivorian vote, was supported
by a rebel movement in the country’s north that had its roots in
a 2002 army mutiny. Senegal doesn’t have a similar militia and
is likely to adhere to any calls for peace by influential
religious leaders in a country where 94 percent of the
population practices Islam, Culverhouse said.  “I don’t think people are expecting a Cote d’Ivoire
situation and we’ve never seen that before in Senegal’s
independence history,” he said by phone Feb. 20. “But the
opposition are now more vocal and seemingly against this family
dynasty than previous, so maybe we’re in uncharted territory.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Skelton in Dakar at 
 rskelton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  