-- South Korean Rate-Cut Case Diminishes as Oil Adds Price Pressures: Economy
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-02-27T04:34:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/south-korean-manufacturers-confidence-rises-to-five-month-high.html
South  Korea ’s case for cutting
 interest rates  is diminishing as domestic sentiment improves and
gains in oil costs threaten to push inflation beyond the
government’s forecast.  Manufacturers’ confidence on the prospects for March rose
to a five-month high, increasing to 84 from 81, a Bank of Korea
 index  showed in Seoul today. Sentiment also improved at other
businesses, the report said. Data last week showed  consumer
confidence  at a three-month high.  South Korean stocks fell today after Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said Feb. 25. that oil costs will have “far-reaching
effects” on Asia’s fourth-largest economy and may drive
consumer-price gains beyond a full-year estimate of 3.2 percent.
Monetary easing in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan  also adds to
inflation pressures, Bahk said in an interview at a Group of 20
nations meeting in Mexico City.  “The Bank of Korea will likely stand pat until late this
year as rising oil prices limit policy room,” said Kong Dong Rak, a fixed-income analyst at Taurus Investment & Securities
Co. in Seoul.  The Kospi Index fell 1.3 percent as of 12:48 p.m. local
time on concern about oil costs and weakness in the yen, which
makes Korean goods less competitive with those of export rival
Japan. The Bank of Korea has kept rates on hold for eight months
as officials monitor progress in taming Europe’s debt crisis,
which poses a threat to exports.  ‘Danger Zone’  Asian stocks swung between gains and losses with the MSCI
 Asia  Pacific Index falling 0.2 percent as of 12:52 p.m. in  Tokyo 
after the Group of 20 nations told Europe to come up with more
financial firepower before they consider lending outside
support. The world economy is “not out of the danger zone”
amid fragile financial systems, high debt and higher world oil
prices, International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said.  Oil retreated 0.2 percent following the longest rally since
January 2010 last week.  South Korea’s Kim Choong Soo, the governor of the central
bank, said he suspected that more stimulus by advanced economies
was not the right solution for reviving global growth, in
remarks prepared for a Feb. 25 seminar in  Mexico .  Defusing the European debt crisis is crucial to aid
confidence in emerging economies, the group best-placed to lead
an economic rebound, Kim said. For now, those nations may hold
off on measures to stimulate growth as they wait to see whether
a “much worse scenario” emerges from the euro area’s woes, the
central banker said.  ‘Worst is Over’  Kim and his board kept the benchmark seven-day repurchase
rate unchanged at 3.25 percent this month.  Barclays Capital  said
Feb. 24 report the level may stay unchanged this year.  “There is a growing perception that the worst is over for
Korea’s growth and that weakness in domestic demand during the
latter part of last year was due to a temporary decline in
sentiment-sensitive activity, as fears over Europe were
rekindled,” the investment bank said.  Elsewhere in Asia,  Thailand ’s industrial production
probably dropped 14 percent in January after a 26 percent
decline in December, economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted
ahead of a report by the Office of Industrial Economics today.  In Europe,  France  may say producer prices rose 4.1 percent
in January from a year earlier, while business confidence in
 Italy  was near a two-year low, according to Bloomberg surveys of
economists.  An index of U.S. pending home sales probably rose 1 percent
in January from the previous month, boosting signs of
stabilization in the nation’s housing market, economists predict
before a report from the National Association of Realtors today.
The Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas may say its index of
manufacturing activity rose to 15.5 this month from 15.3 in
January, a separate survey showed.  In  South Korea , the business survey, conducted from Feb. 13
to Feb. 20, was based on responses from 1,623 manufacturers and
880 other businesses. The measure of expectations at  non-
manufacturing companies  advanced to 80 from 79, the first
increase since October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  