-- Daytona 500’s Start Is Pushed Back Until the Evening as Rain Soaks Track
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-02-27T16:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/stock-cars-return-to-garage-as-weather-postpones-daytona-500-until-monday.html
Nascar further delayed the start of
its season-opening Daytona 500 race until 7 p.m. local time
today as rain continued to fall on the track.  The race at Daytona International Speedway in  Daytona
Beach ,  Florida , was originally postponed until noon today after
rain wiped out yesterday’s planned start. It’s the first time
the race has been postponed by weather in its 54-year history.  Nascar disclosed the latest delay on its  website .  “This doesn’t do us any good,” Robin Pemberton, Nascar’s
vice president of competition, told ESPN after the race was
postponed yesterday following a delay of more than three hours.
“There could be a setback for ratings reasons, but we’ve got
great fans. We’ll overcome like we do everything else that comes
across us. We’ll hope for the best and move forward.”  The Daytona 500 was shortened because of rain in 1965,
1966, 2003 and 2009, yet this marked the first time since it was
first run in 1959 that the race was pushed back a day because of
poor weather.  Nascar used jet dryers yesterday to try to dry the 2.5-mile
(4 kilometer) oval track before heavier showers returned later
in the afternoon. More rain fell through the evening, ending any
chance to run the race under the lights and officials decided to
postpone the 200-lap race just after 5 p.m.  “It’s definitely frustrating,” said Jimmie Johnson, the
2006 Daytona 500 winner and five-time Nascar season champion.
“Unfortunately there’s nothing you can do when Mother Nature
takes over like this. I’m disappointed for our fan base.”  The race will be televised today on Fox, and Nascar said
tickets will be available at the gate or the Daytona ticket
office. Carl Edwards is in the pole position with his Roush
Fenway Racing teammate Greg Biffle alongside him on the front
row.  “I know a lot of race fans are disappointed and a lot of
people at home on TV, but I just hope they tune in,” Biffle
told ESPN. “It will be a great race.”  Danica Patrick  is 29th on the grid in her first start in
the race. Trevor Bayne, who won last year at his first attempt a
day after his 20th birthday to become the youngest champion,
starts in 40th place.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  