-- Hungary Economic Confidence Improves to Five-Month High From Two-Year Low
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-02-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/hungary-economic-confidence-improves-from-2-year-low-in-february.html
Hungary’s  economic sentiment  index
improved to a five-month high in February after dropping to a
two-year low the previous month as businesses and consumers
became less pessimistic about the future.  The index rose to minus 22.5, the highest level since
September, from minus 26.8 in January, the Budapest-based GKI
research institute said today in an e-mailed statement. The
 business confidence  index increased to minus 12.4 from minus
16.3, while the  consumer confidence  jumped to minus 51.2 in
February from minus 56.6.  Hungary’s currency has been the best-performing in the
world this year since Premier  Viktor Orban  last month pledged to
come to a “quick” agreement with the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund  on a loan. Talks broke down in
December after a dispute over a Hungarian law the institutions
deem to be a threat to central-bank independence.  The forint rallied 9.1 percent this year as of 11:03 a.m.
in Budapest on Feb. 24, after falling 16 percent in the second
half of last year, which was the biggest decline in the world in
that period.  The government can’t begin formal talks on international
aid until it meets EU and IMF demands to change a new central
bank regulation. The 27-member bloc also requested changes to
the overhauls of the judiciary and data-protection ombudsman’s
office while the IMF demanded “tangible” steps from Orban to
engage on economic policy issues before starting negotiations.  The European Commission on Feb. 22 proposed to suspend 495
million euros ($655 million) in development subsidies in 2013 to
press Hungary to narrow its  budget deficit  in a sustainable way.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  