-- Mahan Wins World Match Play Championship to Deny McIlroy Top Golf Ranking
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-02-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/hunter-mahan-beats-rory-mcilroy-in-world-match-play-golf-final-in-arizona.html
Hunter Mahan  prevented Rory McIlroy
from becoming the top-ranked golfer by beating him in the final
of the World Match Play Championship.  The 2-and-1 win for Mahan at the Ritz-Carlton’s Dove
Mountain course in Marana,  Arizona , yesterday means American
players have claimed victory in the opening eight events on the
U.S. PGA Tour’s schedule for the first time since 2001.  “It feels good,” Mahan told reporters after securing his
second World Golf Championships title. “I put everything I had
into that match.”  Mahan’s fourth victory on the PGA Tour follows wins at the
2007 Travelers Championship and the Phoenix Open and WGC
Bridgestone Invitational two years ago. Mahan earned $1.4
million, while McIlroy collected $850,000 for finishing second.  The loss for second-ranked McIlroy ensures  Luke Donald  will
remain world No. 1 for at least another week. McIlroy, at 22
years, nine months and 22 days, was seeking to become the
second-youngest golfer to top the  Official World Golf Ranking 
after  Tiger Woods , who was 21 years, five months and 17 days old
when he first achieved the feat on June 15, 1997.  “He’ll be No. 1,” Mahan said of McIlroy, who won the 2011
 U.S. Open . “He’s phenomenal. He’s really talented.”  Mahan, 29, is the first U.S. player to claim the World
Match Play title since Woods won for a third time in 2008. The
final was the first between a European and an American since
 Steve Stricker  defeated Pierre Fulke of Sweden 11 years ago.  McIlroy was seeking to become the fifth European and second
golfer from  Northern Ireland  after  Darren Clarke  in 2000 to win
the event. A victory for McIlroy would have been the third
straight for the U.K. at the tournament, which was won by
Englishmen Donald and  Ian Poulter  the previous two years.  Career-High Ranking  Mahan, who is projected to climb to a career-high ninth
after starting the tournament ranked 22nd, never trailed in the
final and birdied the sixth hole to take a lead he’d never
relinquish. A six at the par-4 seventh after Mahan made a bogey
cost McIlroy another hole.  A par was good enough at the next to allow Mahan to stretch
his advantage and McIlroy found himself trailing by four when
Mahan birdied No. 10.  McIlroy rallied with an eagle at the par-5 11th and a
birdie at No. 14 to trail by two holes, which was as close as
he’d get to Mahan.  Mahan’s putt to win the match at the 16th hole caught the
lip of the cup and stayed out. The Texan sealed the victory at
the next when both players made pars, leaving Mahan two ahead
with one hole to play. The last time the finalists played the
18th hole was in 2002.  ‘Responded Well’  “Even though I threw a few birdies and an eagle at him in
the back nine, he still responded well and held on,” McIlroy
said in a news conference. “During the course of the week he’d
played the best golf and deserved to win.”  In the consolation match, world No. 42  Mark Wilson  of the
U.S. defeated third-ranked Englishman  Lee Westwood  by one hole.
Mahan beat Wilson 2-and-1 in the semifinals and Westwood lost 3-
and-2 to McIlroy.  Third place is worth $600,000 to Wilson, $110,000 more than
Westwood receives for finishing fourth.  Match play involves head-to-head competition over 18 holes,
each one decided by the low score. The match is decided when one
player has an insurmountable lead. In stroke-play events, which
make up most of the world’s pro golf tours, the player with the
lowest score wins the tournament.  Rookie John Huh won the  PGA Tour ’s Mayakoba Golf Classic in
Riviera Maya,  Mexico , yesterday by beating  Robert Allenby  on the
eighth hole of a playoff. Huh made eight straight pars in the
sudden-death playoff to win in his fifth PGA Tour start.  The PGA Tour moves to the PGA National Champion Course in
Palm Beach,  Florida , for the Honda Classic from March 1-4, which
Woods is scheduled to play in.  The next event on the European Tour is the Cadillac
Championship, the second World Golf Championships event of the
year, from March 8-11 at the Doral Golf Resort & Spa in Miami.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 