-- Utah Jazz’s Jeremy Evans Wins Slam-Dunk as Sub for Knicks’ Shumpert
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-02-26T05:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/utah-jazz-s-jeremy-evans-wins-slam-dunk-as-sub-for-knicks-shumpert.html
Utah Jazz’s Jeremy Evans needed only
four days to choreograph the winning performance in the Slam-
Dunk competition during the  National Basketball Association ’s
All-Star weekend.  Evans, who replaced an ailing Iman Shumpert of the  New York
Knicks , dunked a ball with a camera strapped to his head to give
a player’s eye view, dunked two balls at once and jumped over
comedian Kevin Hart to sink a basket.  “It’s amazing to come out here and give the fans what they
want,” Evans, who won 29 percent of the fans’ votes, said in a
televised interview.  Evans competed against three other first-time participants,
including Houston Rockets Chase Budinger, who jumped over rap
artist Sean Combs, known as Diddy, and sunk a basket blindfolded.  Indiana Pacer Paul George vaulted over 6-foot-7 Dahntay Jones and 7-foot-2 Roy Hibbert, as well as sporting a glow-in-
the-dark uniform and sinking a ball on a 360-degree windmill in
the dark and stamping the backboard with Larry Bird faces as he
dunked the ball.  Minnesota Timberwolves  Derrick Williams  jumped a motorcycle,
took a bounce off the side of the backboard before dunking the
ball, and tried unsuccessfully to hit the basket after throwing
the ball through his legs.  Shumpert withdrew from the competition because of knee
tendinitis. Earlier in the week, he said he planned to jump a
couch, a symbol of teammate Jeremy Lin’s humble beginnings
sleeping on sofas at his brother’s and teammate’s houses before
he became a top scorer for the Knicks three weeks ago.  3-Pointers, Skills  Timberwolves’ Kevin Love won the 3-point competition,
besting defending champion James Jones and Mario Chalmers of the
 Miami Heat , Anthony Morrow of the  New Jersey Nets ,  Kevin Durant 
of the Oklahoma City Thunder and Ryan Anderson of the  Orlando
Magic .  San Antonio Spurs’ Tony Parker won the Skills Challenge,
which called for the participants to shoot, pass and dribble
through an obstacle course.  The New York team of Knicks’ Landry Fields, Cappie
Pondexter of the New York Liberty in the Women’s National
Basketball Association, and Allan Houston, who played for the
Knicks for nine years before joining the front-office staff, won
the Shooting Stars competition.  The All-Star game between the East and West begins tonight
at Amway Center in Orlando,  Florida .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  