-- Mobile Operators Turn to Merger Lite as Watchdogs Stop Deals
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-02-27T09:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/wireless-operators-turn-to-merger-lite-as-watchdogs-deter-deals.html
Phone-company executives gathering
at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona this week will be
looking for network-sharing deals to divvy up the costs of high-
speed systems for bandwidth-hogging video and gaming services.  As data-hungry devices are unveiled at the industry’s
biggest annual event,  France Telecom SA (FTE) ,  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  are among operators pushing agreements in
markets hurt by the European debt crisis -- and increasingly in
emerging economies -- to cut costs by sharing parts of their
networks. The move is also one way to stem falling revenue and
meet state-imposed coverage requirements.  The unraveling of takeovers and mergers in the past two
months, including a sale of T-Mobile USA and a combination of
Vodafone’s Greek assets with a rival, highlight the need for
European carriers to find ways to boost profitability as
regulators from  Washington  to Brussels balk at consolidation.
Spending by the region’s operators will shrink by a percentage
point this year and next, falling to 14 percent of average sales
in 2013, according to Fitch Ratings estimates.  “You’ve got a worsening macroeconomic picture and
regulation which is not allowing badly needed consolidation,”
said Michael Dunning, a London-based managing director at Fitch.
“You at least want something like what Orange and T-Mobile have
done in the U.K.”  ‘Light’ Consolidation  France Telecom merged its Orange network in the U.K. with
Deutsche Telekom’s T-Mobile in 2010, creating Everything
Everywhere in a bid to save more than a total of 4 billion euros
($5.4 billion) in network, marketing and administrative costs by
2014. That deal, cutting the number of network operators in the
country from five to four, paved the way for joint procurement
projects and network sharing across all their markets.  “Network sharing is really a light form of industry
consolidation,” said Dee Burger, who heads Paris-based
consulting firm  Cap Gemini (CAP) ’s telecommunications division, which
advises companies including France Telecom, Deutsche Telekom and
 Telefonica SA. (TEF)   France Telecom, whose CEO Stephane Richard is among
executives attending the Barcelona congress, spent 5.8 billion
euros last year on capital expenditure. The company is looking
to go deeper into sharing networks and is seeking partners in
new countries, Christian Luginbuhl, who heads network
performance in  Europe , said in an interview.  Rural Sharing  This month, France Telecom said it’s teaming up with
Deutsche Telekom again, through T-Mobile in Poland, to share
networks and prepare them for an upgrade to a fourth-generation
network. At home, France Telecom shares mobile sites in rural
areas with SFR, a Vivendi SA unit, and with  Bouygues SA. (EN)   Total cost per site can be cut by 20 percent to 40 percent
depending on the depth of the sharing, Luginbuhl said. Phone
companies can share anything from towers and base stations to
’smart’ equipment like antennas or bits into the core of their
networks, he said.  By sharing networks, operators can lower operating expenses
by between 30 percent and 35 percent, said Joachim Horn, chief
technology officer of  Tele2 AB. (TEL2B)  Sweden’s second- largest
wireless provider shares its 6,000 3G cell sites with
 TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  and its 4G network with Norway’s  Telenor ASA. (TEL)   The average European operator will spend about 2 billion
euros to upgrade an existing network to 4G technology to cover
75 percent of a country with 50 million people, said Frederic
Pujol, an analyst at researcher Idate. Spending would be three
times more expensive for an operator starting from scratch, he
said.  Greek Fallout  Operators are also choosing to share networks in countries
where they can’t merge. Vodafone this month abandoned months of
negotiations with Wind Hellas Telecommunications SA to combine
their Greek networks because of opposition from the European
Commission, a person with knowledge of the matter said at the
time. The companies will instead explore sharing infrastructure.  In December,  AT&T (T)  and Deutsche Telekom abandoned the $39
billion proposed sale of T-Mobile USA to the U.S. carrier amid
opposition from the Federal Communications Commission and the
Justice Department.  With mergers falling apart and extra investments needed for
the roll-out of new 4G technology, carriers are looking for
solutions to cope with stalling network budgets. They are likely
to reshuffle spending from older technologies to the long-term
evolution fourth-generation standard.  ‘Aggressive Rollout’  “Everywhere 4G is getting an aggressive rollout, that is
where you’re seeing more of this sharing talk,” John-Paul
Hemingway, vice president of strategic development at gear maker
 Ciena Corp (CIEN) , said in an interview.  Ian Miller, Telefonica’s director for radio access
networks, said in Barcelona that the company is considering
sharing LTE infrastructure with other operators where it doesn’t
get enough spectrum, be it in Europe or  Latin America .  For  France Telecom , which is refocusing business on
 emerging markets , the next sharing deal is set to come from
Africa, where low purchasing power and fierce competition among
foreign players keen on grabbing market share have pushed down
tariffs.  African Deal?  “Our strategy is to share more towers in emerging
markets,” Elie Girard, executive vice president for strategy 
and development at France Telecom, said in an interview. 
“Pressure on operational performance is very tough, especially 
in Africa. Site sharing is one of the ways we can bring our cost
structure down significantly.”  France Telecom, which operates in 20 countries in Africa
and the Middle-East, is finalizing a sharing deal of telecom
masts and towers in one African country. The operator will seek
to replicate this type of deal on the continent, Girard said.  France’s former phone monopoly entered Morocco, Iraq and
the Democratic Republic of Congo in the past two years, as part
of its efforts to refocus its business on emerging markets.  Russia, the first emerging market of its size to mature in
terms of mobile penetration, has also seen its local operators
extend their sharing as they seek to become more efficient.  OAO Mobile Telesystems (MTSS) , the country’s largest mobile-phone
operator, and peers OAO  VimpelCom (VIP)  and OAO  MegaFon (MFON)  have been
sharing mobile towers in eastern Russia for some years. Mobile
Telesystems now expects to trade off fiber capacity with its
competitors as broadband usage grows, spokesman Joshua Tulgan
said.  The three big private operators anticipate being able to
bid for 4G licenses in the next few months. Tulgan says there’s
also likely to be some infrastructure sharing with state-owned
fixed-line operator  Rostelecom. (RTKM)   “For any country, rural areas are typically the first
shared,” said Kai Sahala, head of strategic solutions at  Nokia (NOK1V) 
 Siemens (SIE)  Networks, the network equipment venture between Nokia
Oyj and Siemens AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Barcelona via 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  