-- Yen’s Worst Slump Since 2009 Shows Intervention No Match for BOJ Purchases
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   H i r o k o   K o m i y a
-- 2012-02-27T13:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/yen-s-worst-slump-since-2009-shows-intervention-no-match-for-boj-purchases.html
Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa’s inflation goal is succeeding where record
intervention failed, as the yen heads for its steepest monthly
drop in two years.  The currency reached an almost nine-month low after the
BOJ, which has struggled for more than a decade against
deflation, said on Feb. 14 it aimed for 1 percent annual gains
in consumer prices and would add 10 trillion yen ($124 billion)
to the economy. Traders are paying record premiums for options
to buy the dollar versus the yen for three, six and 12 months.
Bullish bets on Japan’s currency have fallen 70 percent from the
end of last month.  Shirakawa needs a weaker yen to help  Japan  export its way
out of a recession made deeper by last year’s earthquake and the
worst nuclear crisis in a generation. Energy imports to replace
lost capacity have reversed trade surpluses that made the
currency a refuge in a slowing global economy. Prospects of
higher inflation are driving it down, at least for now.  “The BOJ seems to have shifted their stance quite
aggressively,” Mansoor Mohi-uddin, the Singapore-based chief
currency strategist at UBS AG, said by telephone on Feb. 24.
“It’s definitely a situation where the trend is now reversed.”  UBS cut its year-end yen projection to 85 per dollar from
80, saying the BOJ’s inflation goal will help reinforce
expectations that policy will remain easier for longer, a note
from the brokerage said on Feb. 22.  Current Account  Japan has posted an annual  current-account surplus , the
broadest measure of trade, since at least 1985, according to the
Ministry of Finance, turning the nation into the world’s largest
creditor. It had 251.5 trillion yen in net assets overseas at
the end of 2010, the latest data from the ministry show. That’s
almost the size of  Germany ’s annual economic output in dollar
terms.  The Trade Ministry said in November that the current
account may slide into deficit from the middle of this decade,
and Japan posted a record 1.48 trillion-yen trade deficit, a
narrower measure, last month.  Through the global financial crisis, the currency gained
from more than 120 to the dollar in 2007 to about 80 as Japanese
households accumulated 1,471 trillion yen in assets, helping the
government finance its deficits. Domestic investors hold more
than 90 percent of Japan’s public debt, the world’s largest at
about double the size of the economy, allowing the government to
borrow for 10 years at less than 1 percent interest.  Five-Day Slide  The currency climbed against all 16 most-traded
counterparts in 2011 for a second-straight year. Even after the
recent decline, the yen is 17 percent stronger than its five-
year average. It will be at 77 by the end of March, according to
the median estimate of currency analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “As long as Japan maintains its current-account surplus,
funds will accumulate inside the country and be invested in
 government bonds  via  bank deposits ,” Yunosuke Ikeda, head of
Japan foreign-exchange research at Nomura Securities Co., the
nation’s biggest brokerage, said by phone on Feb. 23. “A plunge
in the yen is intriguing as a tale, but I am skeptical that it
will actually come about.”  The yen slid against the dollar for five-consecutive days
through Feb. 22, the longest stretch since April, and is set for
a 5.3 percent plunge in February, the biggest monthly drop since
December 2009. It reached 81.67 against the dollar today, the
weakest level since May, before appreciating 0.7 percent to
80.55 at 8:37 a.m. New York time. The yen slid to 109.93 per
euro, the least since October, before strengthening 1.2 percent
to 107.84.  Two-Year Yields  Government currency sales totaled 14.3 trillion yen last
year, the third-biggest annual sum on record, Ministry of
Finance data show. That didn’t stop the yen from rising to 76.03
per dollar this month before the BOJ’s shift, less than 1
percent off its record of 75.35 reached on Oct. 31.  Combined with regular purchases and earlier stimulus
measures, the BOJ will acquire 32.7 trillion yen in Japanese
government debt this year, compared with the government’s
planned issuance of 149.7 trillion yen for the 12 months
starting April 1. Yields on Japan’s two-year bonds slid to 0.1
percent on Feb. 16, the lowest since October 2010.  “The shift toward inflation targeting as well as the
announcement to buy further JGBs is quite significant,”
 Frederic Neumann , the Hong Kong-based co-head of Asian economic
research at HSBC Holdings Plc., said by phone on Feb. 22. The
yen may extend declines this year to 84 per dollar, he said.  Inflation Target  Japan’s  consumer prices , excluding fresh food, fell 0.1
percent in December. They’ve declined an average 0.2 percent for
the past 10 years, and the rate hasn’t been above 1 percent for
more than 12 months since 1993. The central bank  forecast  in
October the so-called core inflation rate will rise 0.1 percent
in the year starting April, followed by a 0.5 percent gain the
next fiscal year.  Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said the BOJ effectively
established an inflation target when it set a “goal” of 1
percent inflation on Feb. 14, replacing earlier wording that the
central bank had an “ understanding” of where consumer prices
should go.  “I can feel their seriousness,” Masashi Murata, a
currency strategist in  Tokyo  at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.,
said on Feb. 22 by phone, referring to the inflation goal.
Before the change, “markets sensed the BOJ eschewed commitment
to consumer prices.”  Negative Bets  Traders are giving in. The risk-reversal rate for three-
month options on the dollar against the yen reached 0.53 on Feb.
20, the highest closing level in data compiled by Bloomberg
going back to October 2003. It was as low as negative 2.49 in
August. The six-month rate was at 0.25 today, while the one-year
rate traded at 0.05.  A higher number for the difference in volatility between
call and put options indicates there is more demand from bulls
than bears.  The  difference  in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the yen compared with
those on a drop slid to 17,257 on Feb. 21, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed. It
reached 59,657 on Jan. 13, the most since March 2008.  Efforts to spur the Japanese economy with asset purchases
pale next to those in the U.S. and  Europe . The  Federal Reserve (FARBAST) ’s
total assets have more than doubled since the beginning of the
fourth quarter in 2008 as it started so-called quantitative
easing by purchasing debt. The  European Central Bank (EBBSTOTA)  boosted its
assets by 75 percent during the period, while the  BOJ’s (BJACTOTL)  balance
sheet increased 25 percent, before the announced purchase plan.  BOJ Divergence  “BOJ policy is diverging from what we see in Europe and
the U.S.,”  Koji Fukaya , chief currency strategist in Tokyo at
Credit Suisse Group AG, said by phone on Feb. 22. “Expectations
for further easing are diminishing in Europe, while economic
indicators point to decreasing likelihood of additional easing
in the U.S.”  A stronger yen hurts the overseas competitiveness of
exporters and cuts the value of income earned abroad when
repatriated. A previous yen record of 79.75 reached in April
1995 stood until March last year when a magnitude-9.0 earthquake
struck Japan’s northeast, stoking speculation companies would
bring home assets to pay for rebuilding. The currency jumped to
76.25 on March 17, prompting coordinated intervention by Group
of Seven nations the next day.  Record Deficit  Companies listed on the Topix Index had a 69 percent drop
in net income in the last reported quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Mazda Motor Corp., the Japanese carmaker
most dependent on exports, predicted its biggest annual loss in
11 years. Television maker Panasonic Corp. forecast a record 780
billion yen loss this fiscal year.  Japan posted a record trade deficit in January, official
data showed on Feb. 20, with imports of liquefied natural gas
surging 74 percent from a year earlier. Energy costs have
swollen as nuclear plants were shuttered following meltdowns and
radiation leaks at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s quake and tsunami-
damaged Fukushima plant.  “People took it for granted that Japan would always have a
trade surplus, but they may be starting to realize that is not
the case,” Takatoshi Kato, a former top currency official for
Japan, said in an interview on Feb. 23.  The economy has contracted in three of the past four
quarters, and a November report from the Trade Ministry said the
current account may slide into deficit from the middle of this
decade,  A shrinking current-account surplus is leading to a
“reevaluation of the fundamentals in Japan,” Greg Gibbs, a
foreign-exchange strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in Sydney, said by phone by Feb. 23. “The fiscal situation has
deteriorated, and there’s certainly concern about a hollowing
out of the Japanese economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Hiroko Komiya in 東京 at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  