-- Yen Advances Amid Concern Oil Rally, Greek Crisis Will Slow Global Growth
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-02-27T22:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-26/yen-drops-on-global-growth-outlook-euro-gains-on-zhou-s-imf-help-comment.html
The yen rallied against all of its
major counterparts as speculation increased that the surge in
 oil prices  this month and Europe’s unsettled debt crisis may
weigh on economic recoveries, boosting demand for safety.  The euro extended its decline, falling by the most in more
than three months against the yen, after  Standard & Poor’s 
placed the region’s rescue fund on negative outlook. Some
higher-yielding currencies, including  South Africa ’s rand,
erased earlier declines as stocks advanced. The Swedish krona
led losses against the yen among the 16 major currencies.  “We’ve still got a reasonable amount of event risk,
particularly with getting the Greek deal over the line,” said
Ray Attrill, a senior currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in
New York.  The yen gained 1.1 percent to 107.99 per euro at 5 p.m.  New
York  time after rising 1.8 percent, the most since Nov. 9. It
broke a seven-day decline against the common currency, the
longest such streak since January 2010. The Japanese currency
gained 0.7 percent to 80.61 per dollar after earlier touching
81.67, the weakest since May 31. The euro was 0.4 percent weaker
at $1.3398.  The euro briefly extended its losses against the dollar
after S&P cut its outlook on the bailout fund, the European
Financial Stability Facility, to negative, reflecting a similar
move on two euro-area nations that act as guarantors to the
facility. The EFSF lost its top credit rating in January after
earlier downgrades to France and Austria.  S&P also cut  Greece ’s  credit rating  to “selective
default.”  German Vote  The euro remained lower even after  Germany ’s lower house of
parliament approved a second Greek bailout package worth 130
billion euros ($174 billion). German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
and euro-area leaders now shift their focus on whether to
bolster the region’s bailout firewall as they prepare for a
summit meeting in Brussels on March 1-2.  The  S&P 500 Index  rose 0.2 percent after earlier falling as
much as 0.8 percent.  The reversal in stock prices helped spur some higher-
yielding currencies to rise against the dollar. The South
African rand rose 0.6 percent to 7.5530 and  Mexico ’s peso added
0.1 percent to 12.8907.  Sweden’s krona fell 1.3 percent to 12.22 yen and lost 0.6
percent to 6.5957 per dollar.  Oil Rally  Crude oil for April delivery rallied to $109.95 a barrel
last week, the highest level since May 4. The increase in prices
may weigh on U.S. consumer spending, stalling the economic
recovery and prompting the  Federal Reserve  to more seriously
consider additional easing measures, said Boris Schlossberg,
director of research at the online currency trader GFT Forex in
New York.  Oil dropped 1.6 percent to $107.82 today. It averaged
$95.12 a barrel during 2011.  “Dollar-yen is a referendum on the oil prices,”  GFT
Forex’s Schlossberg said. “That oil prices have skyrocketed so
far so fast is making a lot of people wonder if it’s going to
have an impact on the U.S. consumer, and it’s damping the
mood.”  The dollar erased a gain of as much as 0.6 percent versus
the yen as a technical indicator suggested its recent
appreciation has come too quickly. The greenback’s 14-day
relative strength index against  Japan ’s currency was at 72.2,
above the 70 level that some traders see as a sign an asset may
be about to reverse direction.  Dollar Resistance  The U.S. currency will face so-called resistance near the
82 yen level with a break above that signaling a gain toward
85.60 yen, he said.  The yen has plunged since the  Bank of Japan (8301) , which has
struggled for more than a decade against deflation, said on Feb.
14 that it would aim for 1 percent annual gains in consumer
prices and would add 10 trillion yen ($124 billion) to the
economy.  The Japanese currency has weakened 6.4 percent in the past
month, the biggest decline among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
has lost 1.1 percent and the euro has gained 0.4 percent in the
period, the indexes show.  There are also indications the  U.S. economy  is improving.
The number of Americans signing contracts to buy  previously
owned homes  in January rose 2 percent from the previous month,
figures from the National Association of Realtors showed today.
A Bloomberg News survey of economists forecast a 1 percent
increase.  G-20 Meeting  Finance ministers and central bankers of the G-20 nations
meeting in Mexico this weekend concluded that a European review
of its financial firewall in March is “essential” before any
consideration can be made to boost resources for the
 International Monetary Fund , the group said in its closing
statement issued in Mexico City yesterday. Progress will be
assessed in April, when officials gather in  Washington  for the
IMF’s spring meetings.  The euro briefly pared its loss against the dollar after
the  European Central Bank  said today it hasn’t bought any
 government bonds  for two straight weeks, the first pause since
August. The purchases have dwindled since the ECB funneled a
record 489 billion euros ($655 billion) of three-year loans into
the banking system in December, fueling a bond-market rally and
reducing the need to intervene with its Securities Markets
Program.  ‘More Assurance’  The central bank will offer another round of unlimited
three-year loans to financial institutions Feb. 29.  “What the ECB has done is significant because they’ve
given a lot more assurance that the euro-zone banks are going to
be fine in terms of recapitalization,” said Chris Fernandes,
vice president of foreign exchange at Bank of the West in San
Ramon,  California . “It’s a positive for the euro overall.”  The euro declined after Moody’s Investors Service said
Greek default risk “remains high.” The ratings company said in
its weekly credit outlook that there is still a chance creditors
won’t agree to a proposed private-sector involvement, or PSI, in
the nation’s second bailout.  Europe ’s most-indebted nation
formally asked investors to exchange their holdings of
government debt for new securities last week.  Failure of the British pound to break above its 200-day
moving average versus the dollar means it’s set to weaken,
according to Citigroup Inc.  Sterling hasn’t been able to trade above the so-called
resistance level, now at $1.5905, since Oct. 31 and hasn’t
closed above it since Sept. 2. A failure to breach this level
and a decline to $1.5644 may see the British currency fall to
$1.5385, Tom Fitzpatrick, chief technical analyst at Citigroup
Inc. in New York, wrote to clients today. A break above the
moving average would open the pound up to climbing to $1.6165 to
$1.6170, he said.  The pound rose as much as 0.2 percent today to $1.5902,
before trading down 0.3 percent at $1.5824.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  