-- Maersk Raises Profit Forecast as Earnings Almost Double
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-08-16T06:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/maersk-line-raises-profit-forecast-after-earnings-almost-double.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB)  raised the
earnings forecast for its container-shipping line, the world’s
largest, after second-quarter profit at the unit almost doubled
as lower fuel prices and costs offset a drop in freight rates.  The company now expects Maersk Line to report a profit this
year “significantly above” earnings last year, compared with a
previous forecast of profit “above” the 2012 level, the
Copenhagen-based group said in a statement today. Maersk Line’s
net income totaled $439 million in the three months through
June, compared with $227 million a year earlier.  “Maersk Line revises its expected result on continued
strong cost performance and the stronger result for the first
half of 2013 compared to last year,” it said. The improvement
in profit “was driven by lower unit costs through the
continuous focus on operational cost savings mainly from vessel
network efficiencies and also helped by lower bunker price.”  Maersk Line has trimmed its fleet and slowed vessel speeds
to curb capacity, as falling consumer demand hurts cargo volumes
and carriage prices. The Shanghai Containerized Freight Index --
a measure of prices for cargo leaving the world’s busiest port -
- was 22 percent lower at $1,133.14 at the end of June this year
compared with the end of the second quarter last year. The Asia-to-Europe trade is Maersk’s most important route.  The shipping company today revised its forecast for growth
in global demand for seaborne containers, saying it now expects
it to rise 2 to 3 percent in 2013, compared with a previous
forecast of growth of 2 to 4 percent.  A.P. Moeller-Maersk, Maersk Line’s parent, reported a
profit of 4.48 billion kroner ($801.4 million), which beat the
average  analyst estimate  of 3.24 billion kroner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  