-- Magnitude 6.6 Earthquake Strikes Central New Zealand
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-08-16T06:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/magnitude-6-2-earthquake-strikes-central-n-z-dollar-drops.html
A magnitude 6.6 earthquake struck
central New Zealand today, shaking the capital city Wellington
and sending the nation’s currency down almost half a U.S. cent.  The country’s  stock exchange  was temporarily closed and
buildings including Statistics New Zealand were evacuated as
aftershocks of up to magnitude 6.3 continued to rattle office
blocks in the central city. The initial quake’s magnitude was
upgraded from 6.2 by seismic monitoring service Geonet. Police
said there were no immediate reports of injuries.  The quake, which hit at 2:31 p.m. local time, was centered
at the northern tip of New Zealand’s South Island about 72
kilometers (45 miles) south of Wellington at a depth of 8
kilometers, according to GNS Science’s Geonet website. It lasted
at least 30 seconds and was the third serious tremor to rock
Wellington in less than a month.  The city center was closed after a magnitude 6.5 earthquake
struck on July 21, blowing out windows, throwing goods from
store shelves and sending people running from buildings. The
nation of 4.4 million people sits on the Pacific Ring of Fire, a
belt of volcanic and quake activity that circles the Pacific
Ocean.  Felt in Auckland  “We even felt it in Auckland and we’re a fair old distance
away,” said James Lee, head of institutional equities at First
NZ Capital Ltd., a brokerage and wealth-management firm based
about 630 kilometers from Wellington. “The guys in Wellington
said there’s no obvious damage.”  The  NZX 50 Index (NZSE50FG)  pared its loss to close down 0.4 percent
when it reopened after closing for an hour following the quake.
The New Zealand dollar fell to as low as 80.54 U.S. cents from
81 cents beforehand and was at 80.68 cents at 6:30 p.m. local
time.  “While there a number of incidents involving broken glass
in the city, there are no reports of any casualties so far,”
New Zealand police said in a statement. “A number of people
have been freed from lifts in the CBD which stopped when the
quake struck.”  Statistics New Zealand sent staff home after the quake,
which burst an air-conditioning pipe in the building and caused
some water damage, spokesman Colin Marshall said by phone.
Engineers will assess the building later today, he said.  Wellington train services have been suspended and State
Highway 1, south of Blenheim in the South Island, is now closed
as a result of slips on the road, police said. There were
reports of some damage to buildings in and around the Seddon
area, close to the quake’s epicenter.  The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center said there was no threat
of a “destructive widespread tsunami,” based on historical
data.  A magnitude 6.3 quake in February 2011 in the South Island
city of Christchurch killed 185 people, the nation’s deadliest
in eight decades.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  