-- Thai Bonds, Baht Fall This Week as Fed Seen Cutting Stimulus
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-08-16T08:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/thai-bonds-baht-fall-this-week-as-fed-seen-cutting-stimulus.html
Thailand ’s 10-year government bonds
and the baht declined for the week as speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will taper its bond purchases reduced demand for
emerging-market assets.  Initial jobless claims in the U.S. fell to the least in
almost six years last week, official figures show, while 65
percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect the Fed to
cut its $85 billion of monthly bond buying in September. Global
funds pulled a net $378 million from local debt this month,
according to Thai Bond Market Association  data , amid concern an
amnesty bill for political protesters will hinder a development
spending plan.  “Money has been flowing out from riskier assets due to
speculation of the Fed’s tapering,” said  Koji Fukaya , chief
executive officer and foreign-exchange strategist at FPG
Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “For domestic factors, the risk is
that the infrastructure spending plan will be delayed, further
slowing economic growth.”  The yield on the 3.625 percent sovereign notes due June
2023 rose six basis points this week and three basis points
today to 3.98 percent as of 3:39 p.m. in Bangkok, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Parliament is currently reviewing a proposal to pardon
individuals involved in demonstrations after former Prime
Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra  was toppled in a 2006 coup.
Prioritizing the legislation may mean they won’t have time to
vote on a 2 trillion baht ($64 billion) spending plan to build
railways, roads and ports.  An official report on Aug. 19 may show gross domestic
product increased 3.3 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier, after rising 5.3 percent in the first three months of
this year, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  The baht weakened 0.1 percent from a week ago to 31.28 per
dollar and was little changed today, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, dropped three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 6.25 percent this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  