-- Rodriguez Implicated Braun in Biogenesis Doping, CBS Reports
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-08-17T04:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/alex-rodriguez-implicated-braun-in-biogenesis-doping-cbs-says.html
Representatives of  Alex Rodriguez ,
who is playing for the  New York Yankees  while appealing a 211-game doping suspension, leaked documents that implicated one of
his teammates and former National League Most Valuable Player
 Ryan Braun , according to the CBS television program  “60
Minutes.”   Rodriguez was banned Aug. 5 after an MLB investigation tied
to a now-defunct Florida anti-aging clinic, Biogenesis of
America LLC.  Braun, an outfielder for the Milwaukee Brewers, and Yankees
catcher  Francisco Cervelli , had their names redacted from
documents released by the Miami New Times, which in February
broke the story on Biogenesis and Alex Rodriguez’s involvement.
Members of Rodriguez’s inner circle a few days later obtained
and leaked the documents -- unredacted -- to Yahoo! Sports, “60
Minutes” said on its website, citing two people with direct
knowledge of the matter who requested anonymity.  Rodriguez, speaking to reporters before last night’s
Yankees game at the  Boston Red Sox , said the report was “not
true at all.”  “I spoke to Cervelli this morning. Had a positive
conversation,” Rodriguez said. “He understands that it’s not
true. We’re on the same page.”  ‘Bumpy Road’  Braun accepted a 65-game suspension for violating
baseball’s performance-enhancing drug rules, while Cervelli and
11 other players were banned for 50 games. Rodriguez is the only
player appealing his suspension.  David Cornwell, Rodriguez’s attorney, said in an e-mail
that the accusations are “untrue and are another attempt to
harm Alex -- this time by driving a wedge between Alex and other
players in the game.”  “Let’s make one thing clear,” Rodriguez told reporters in
Boston. “For the next seven weeks, it’s going to be a very,
very bumpy road. Every day, expect a story like this - if not
bigger.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  