-- Hamburg Port Turns to Baltics as China Container Trade Falls
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-08-16T11:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/hamburg-port-turns-to-baltics-as-china-container-trade-falls.html
Hamburg,  Europe ’s third-biggest
port, compensated for declining Chinese container traffic with a
steep increase in Baltic Sea trade in the first six months.  Throughput rose 2.1 percent to 4.5 million 20-foot
equivalent units, or TEUs. Traffic to and from  China  fell 3
percent, while trade with Baltic Sea states such as Russia,
Sweden and  Poland  increased by 8 percent, said Axel Mattern, a
board member of Port of Hamburg Marketing.  “The solid growth in Hamburg is against the trend seen in
other big North European ports,” Mattern said at a news
conference in Hamburg. He said seafreight volumes in the region
fell an average of 0.4 percent, while container throughput
declined 1.2 percent.  Hamburg, which is Europe’s second-biggest container port,
faces increasing numbers of big box ships while a dredging
project to deepen the river Elbe connecting the port and the
 North Sea  has been delayed by an environmentalist lawsuit. A
ruling isn’t expected before 2014.  The number of vessels longer than 330 meters and 45 meters
wide rose 41 percent from 2008 to 2012 and that trend has
continued this year, Jens Meier, chief executive officer at the
Hamburg Port Authority, said at the same conference.  Big ships have short time slots to dock and leave the
harbor because of the delay to dredging and terminal operators
such as Hamburger Hafen & Logistik AG and Eurogate need extra
staff and equipment to deal with peak traffic.  Seaborne Cargo  In the full year, container volume is set to rise 3 percent
to 9.1 million TEU, while total seaborne cargo throughput will
probably rise 4 percent to 136 million metric tons, Mattern
said. First-half total volume, which also includes bulk cargo,
increased 3.5 percent to 68.1 million tons, according to Port of
Hamburg Marketing.  HHLA, which handles about 80 percent of containers in
Hamburg, raised its 2013 volume forecast this week after Baltic
Sea traffic increased.  Asia  was Hamburg’s biggest trading partner in the first
half, accounting for 52 percent of all the containers handled at
 Germany ’s biggest port. Europe was second with a 33 percent
share followed by  North America , with 6 percent.  Exports have rebounded in Germany and China in recent
months, adding to signs that the global economy is recovering
amid record-low  interest rates  in Europe and the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  