-- AMR-US Airways Merger Limbo Puts CEOs to Workers on Hold
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-08-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/amr-us-airways-merger-limbo-puts-ceos-to-workers-on-hold.html
About 1,000 white-collar employees
with jobs on the block at  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  and  American
Airlines (AAMRQ)  got a temporary reprieve when the U.S. government sued
to block the carriers’ planned $14 billion merger.  Consolidating headquarters staffs is just one of the many
tasks put on hold by the U.S. lawsuit. A new stock ticker,
reconstituted board and US Airways Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker’s move to run American are all in limbo after the  Justice
Department  said the deal would boost fares and harm consumers.  “There’s a whole series of dimensions to how this screws
things up,” said  Robert Mann , president of aviation consultant
R.W. Mann & Co. “You have people who were announced out the
door who you still need to run operations -- except now some
might be gone. There’s a whole group identified as their
replacements, who now will be sitting on their hands for
months.”  A number of managers, including American Chief Commercial
Officer Virasb Vahidi, have been told they won’t join a merged
carrier. Some workers from Tempe, Arizona-based  US Airways  face
deadlines to accept a transfer or already have bought houses in
 Texas , where the company will keep American’s Fort Worth home.  No one has been laid off or moved yet as part of the
management shuffle, the airlines said. With no third-quarter
closing for a tie-up creating the world’s largest carrier, the
1,000 white-collar jobs targeted by Parker for elimination
remain up in the air.  Contingent Appointments  “Nothing can be implemented without the merger being
executed,” Mike Trevino, an American spokesman, said yesterday.
“It was made abundantly clear that appointments were contingent
upon the merger.”  That includes Parker, President Scott Kirby and others from
US Airways’ executive group assuming control. American CEO  Tom Horton  stays on the job instead of ceding that title and taking
on the chairmanship until the first shareholder meeting of the
new company.  Also unsettled is the bankruptcy case of American parent
AMR Corp. The U.S. acted just two days before a U.S. Bankruptcy
Court hearing yesterday intended to confirm an AMR restructuring
plan built around the U.S. Airways tie-up.  “This was Plan A,” said Rob Pickels, an analyst at
Fairport, New York-based  Manning & Napier Inc. (MN) , whose holdings
include US Airways. “We really don’t know what Plan B is.”  29 Teams  While changes such as installing the 12 announced directors
for a combined board and unveiling a ticker for the rechristened
 American Airlines  Group Inc. are being put off, the airlines say
their 29 merger-integration teams will keep working.  Those groups were toiling on the details from human
resources to operations needed to support the combination of
American, the third-largest U.S. carrier, and No. 5 US Airways.
Also still in the works: The continuing deliveries of 460  Boeing
Co. (BA)  and  Airbus SAS (EAD)  jets whose 2011 orders were affirmed in the
bankruptcy process, Trevino said.  What’s been lost is the “cadence” of the preparations
under way when the airlines thought the deal’s consummation was
just weeks away, said consultant Mann, a former American
executive who is based in  Port Washington ,  New York .  “Trying to run a business with the uncertainty of whether
you can merge with somebody can really cause gridlock in an
organization,” said Greg Charleston, senior managing director
at Conway MacKenzie Inc., an Atlanta-based restructuring-advisory firm. “You don’t want to hire, you don’t want to
upgrade a system, you don’t want to do anything until you
know.”  Shares Swoon  Investors are among those unsettled by the merger doubts.
US Airways has tumbled 16 percent since Aug. 12, the day before
the Justice Department acted, to $15.72 yesterday. AMR’s over-the-counter shares plunged 56 percent to $2.57.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane asked for briefs yesterday
on the impact of the U.S. case on the standards for approving
the restructuring plan and the appropriateness of ruling on it
before the federal suit is resolved. He said in court in
 Manhattan  that he proceeded with the hearing because scrapping
it might have led to “unhelpful confusion or uncertainty.”  AMR and US Airways “may be right,” said  Roger King , a
CreditSights Inc. debt analyst. “But they’re losing money every
day that this doesn’t go through.”  AMR filed Chapter 11 in November 2011, with $24.7 billion
in assets and $29.6 billion in debt. Under the merger plan,
unsecured creditors holding $2.6 billion in claims and those
with $6.8 billion in claims backed by aircraft will receive a
full recovery. Shareholders will get a 3.5 percent stake in the
combined company with the potential for additional stock.  ‘Potential Alternative?’  “The question is, is there a better potential alternative
out there?” said Pablo Wangermann, a Dallas-based consultant at
restructuring-advisory firm AlixPartners LLP.  American, which gave up its plan to exit bankruptcy
independently when it agreed to the merger, faces the prospect
of having to restructure on its own if the government prevails.
For US Airways, a failure would follow the 2007 collapse of
Parker’s bid for  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  in bankruptcy and
fruitless merger talks with  United Airlines (UAL)  in 2008 and 2010.  A blocked combination would dash the hopes of 100,000
employees -- about 70,000 of them at American -- counting on
working at a bigger, competitive airline for better
compensation.  “We have had a positive outlook on this whole merger for
the last year,” said Roger Holmin, president of the  Association
of Flight Attendants  at US Airways. “It’s the first time since
9-11 we’ve been able to have that. Now they are taking that
dream away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  