-- Man. United Joins Chase for Midfielder Willian: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-16T05:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/man-united-joins-chase-for-midfielder-willian-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Trio Chases Willian  Manchester United  joined Liverpool and Tottenham Hotspur in
the race to sign attacking midfielder Willian from Anzhi
Makhachkala, the  Daily Mail reported .  With Liverpool in advanced talks with Anzhi over the
transfer of the Brazilian, who’s valued at 30 million pounds
($46.9 million), United has made its own inquiry and is said to
be his preferred destination, the Mail added.  Moyes Eyes Ozil  United manager David Moyes is considering a bid for Real
Madrid midfielder Mesut Ozil, the  Daily Mirror reported .  The Premier League champion, which will have to persuade
the Spanish club to sell the Germany international, also has a
move for Everton’s  Marouane Fellaini  lined up, though Moyes
wants a technical player as well, the newspaper added.  Everton manager  Roberto Martinez  warned United that it
won’t get Fellaini on the cheap after a buy-out clause in the
Belgian’s contract allowing him to leave for 23.5 million pounds
expired, the  Mirror said .  Rooney Deadline  Chelsea set a deadline for signing United striker  Wayne Rooney  by Aug. 26, when the teams meet in a Premier League match
at Old Trafford, the  Daily Express reported .  The Blues have had two bids for Rooney rejected and are
preparing to submit another offer of about 28 million pounds
plus add-ons this week, the newspaper said.  United is adamant that Rooney is not for sale and Chelsea
will turn to Anzhi Makhachkala striker Samuel Eto’o if it fails
to acquire the England forward, the Express added.  Suarez Distraction  Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  is concerned striker  Luis Suarez ’s push for a transfer could sabotage the team’s start to
the Premier League season, the  Guardian reported .  Rodgers said yesterday that he won’t answer questions about
the Uruguayan forward until late September, when Suarez will
have served his 10-match suspension for biting an opponent, the
newspaper added.  Arsenal Injuries  Arsenal midfielder Mikel Arteta could miss the first six
weeks of the season after tearing a thigh muscle during
training, the  Daily Mail reported .  Gunners manager Arsene Wenger is already without  Thomas Vermaelen , Nacho Monreal and Abou Diaby, while Bacary Sagna is
in doubt for tomorrow’s season opener against Aston Villa after
injuring his ankle injury playing for  France , the Mail added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  