-- Anne Doss, Head of Wells Fargo Unit, Dies at 56
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-08-16T04:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/anne-doss-head-of-wells-fargo-unit-dies-at-56-on-business-trip.html
Anne Doss, who became head of  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s personal and small-business insurance unit in
January as part of an expansion push, has died on a work-related
trip. She was 56.  She died on Aug. 14 in her hotel room at the Sofitel
Minneapolis in Bloomington,  Minnesota , Raschael Ellering, an
investigator at the Hennepin County Medical Examiner’s Office,
said yesterday in an interview. Her death was from “apparent
natural causes,” according to the coroner’s report. The
specific cause is pending further investigation.  The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based executive was in
Minnesota on a business trip, Herbert Doss, her husband of 26
years, said, according to an article on the Charlotte Observer’s
website. Her death surprised him because she hadn’t been ill,
the newspaper reported.  “I spoke to her as she was going to sleep,” he said,
according to the article. “She was perfect.”  An executive vice president at San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo, Doss was responsible for boosting collaboration between
the insurance, business and retail-banking groups, according to
a December statement announcing her new role.  As she rose in her career, Doss also extended herself as a
mentor to women trying to move through the corporate landscape.
In April, she was a slated speaker at a Women’s Leadership
Academy Summit in Grapevine,  Texas . The title of her
presentation: “Navigating the Corporate Matrix in High Heels
and a Skirt.” The  event  was sponsored by the State Farm Center
for Women and Financial Services at the American College in Bryn
Mawr,  Pennsylvania .  ‘Demonstrating Power’  She appeared in a 2008 Forbes magazine article about the
correlation between height and success and the growing presence
of stiletto heels in executive suites.  “Doss doesn’t need to add height -- she’s 5’9” without her
favorite Prada or Manolo pumps -- but nonetheless values the
perceived edge of a sky-high heel,” according to the  article .  “For me, it’s about demonstrating power and strength,”
she said, according to Forbes.  Before her latest promotion, Doss had led the national
practices and special risk group at Wells Fargo, which she
joined with its 2008 purchase of Wachovia Corp. Doss was
Wachovia’s president of insurance services at the time,
according to the statement about her new position. She spent 23
years at the Charlotte-based lender, including 20 years in its
banking operations before moving to Wachovia’s insurance
division in 2007, according to a Wells Fargo biography.  ‘Fierce Love’  “Anne is remembered by the many who loved her for her
piercing green eyes, impeccable style -- thank you, Neiman
Marcus -- attention to detail, deep wisdom, fierce love of God,
and all things Rock & Roll, especially Marvin Gaye, the Beatles,
Jim Morrison, Jimi Hendrix, and Bob Marley,” according to a
statement e-mailed by Marsha Askins, a family spokeswoman. “She
displayed kindness and generosity to everyone, was angered by
and fought injustices to others.”  Doss was “extremely healthy” and her death was
“completely unexpected,” Katie Ellis, a Wells Fargo
spokeswoman, said yesterday in an interview. Ellis, who
confirmed that Doss was on a business trip, described her as
“an extremely vibrant woman, very passionate.”  Anne Johnson was born on Dec. 19, 1956, in Yakima,
 Washington . Her father, Stan Johnson, was a minister and her
mother, Emily Johnson, a nurse anesthetist. She graduated from
Guilford Technical Community College in Greensboro, North
Carolina, and North Carolina State University in Raleigh. As
part of Wachovia’s senior executive development program, she
attended  Fuqua School of Business  at Duke University in Durham,
North Carolina, according to Ellis.  Ordained Minister  She was ordained as an interfaith minister in 2003 by One
Spirit Interfaith Seminary in  New York  City and officiated her
daughter’s wedding, according to Askins.  Doss was on the board of Women Executives for Community
Service and Women’s Inter-cultural Exchange, according to the
Wells Fargo biography. She was also board chairman-elect of the
North Carolina Dance Theatre, and a director at  Carolina Thread
Trail , a regional network of hiking and biking paths, according
to the biography.  “Anne was more than just a colleague,” Laura Schupbach,
head of Wells Fargo’s insurance unit, said in an e-mailed
statement. “She was a close and dear friend whom I will miss
terribly.”  Doss and her husband lived in Charlotte and in Southport,
North Carolina.  In addition to her husband and father, Doss’s survivors
include her son, Brenton Purcell, 30; daughter, Kristin
Mountcastle, 31; sisters, Jayne Batts and Jan Smith; brothers,
Chris Johnson and Jay Johnson, according to Askins.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net 
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  