-- AOL Is Said to Be Cutting About 500 Jobs at Patch
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-08-16T20:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/aol-is-said-to-be-cutting-about-500-jobs-at-patch.html
AOL Inc. (AOL)  is eliminating about 500
positions at its struggling Patch local-news business, or close
to half of the division’s more than 1,000 employees, according
to a person with knowledge of the decision.  About 350 people will lose their jobs today, and roughly
150 will be asked to stay for 60 more days as the company seeks
partners for some of the 900 Patch sites, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the matter is confidential.
Chief Executive Officer Tim Armstrong, who apologized this week
for firing a staff member in front of colleagues, announced the
job cuts this morning to Patch workers.  Armstrong, who has said he aims to make Patch profitable by
the end of the year, told the staff last week that 400 sites
would close down or look for partners, such as other local-news
publishers. Today, Armstrong told employees the company may
shutter as many as 20 percent of the Patch sites, with another
20 percent destined for partnerships or consolidation, the
person said.  Patch, which covers school-board meetings, local businesses
and other neighborhood stories, has been a costly part of AOL’s
strategy to transform the dial-up provider into an advertising-driven content publisher. The company has spent more than $300
million developing the sites, which serve communities and
neighborhoods across the country.  “Patch’s strategy will be to focus resources against core
sites and partner in sites that need additional resources,” AOL
said today in an e-mailed statement. “The Patch team across the
country has served and will continue to serve communities with
journalism and technology platforms.”  Openly Fired  Armstrong apologized to AOL employees last week for the way
he fired Abel Lenz, a creative director at Patch, in front of a
room full of employees, as well as a thousand others who were
listening in on a conference call. Lenz’s ouster became public
fodder after an audio recording of the meeting leaked out and
appeared on the website of  Jim Romenesko , a media blogger.  Earlier in the week, Armstrong replaced Patch’s top
executive, Steven Kalin, with Bud Rosenthal.  While the division more than doubled its sales last year to
just under $35 million, Patch’s annual costs range from $126
million to $162 million. The job eliminations will cost AOL $14
million to $18 million, the company said today in a filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net  