-- Applied Materials Shares Slip as Sales Miss Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-08-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/applied-materials-shares-slip-as-sales-miss-estimates.html
Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT)  slipped in
extended trading after the company reported fiscal third-quarter
revenue that missed analysts’ estimates and gave a disappointing
sales forecast as customers delay factory upgrades.  The company, the largest supplier of chipmaking equipment,
also promoted Gary Dickerson to chief executive officer,
replacing Mike Splinter, who will remain chairman.  Revenue in the fiscal fourth  quarter  will be unchanged from
the third quarter, when sales were $1.98 billion, the company
said yesterday in a statement. Analysts on average had projected
sales of $2.06 billion in the third quarter and $2.14 billion in
the fourth, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Applied Materials’ revenue projection fell short of
predictions for a second straight quarter amid muted
semiconductor demand and a record slump in the personal-computer
market. Companies that make chips on a contract basis, known as
foundries, are installing equipment they’ve already bought and
will return to ordering later this year, Splinter said.  “We’ve seen this for the last few years where foundry
spending in particular drops off in the third calendar
quarter,” he said in an interview. “We’re going to see the
orders come back before the end of the year.”  Applied Materials shares fell as much as 4.1 percent to
$14.70 in late trading after the earnings and executive change
announcement. The stock declined 2.6 percent to $15.33 at
yesterday’s close in New York, leaving it up 34 percent so far
this year.  Smartphone Demand  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Samsung Electronics
Co. and other companies that make mobile-phone parts may also be
waiting for smartphone demand to accelerate before they commit
more of their budgets, said Patrick Ho, an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co.  “In the near term, there’s a bit of choppiness,” said Ho,
who is based in  Dallas . “It’s just part of the nature of doing
business when you have such a concentrated customer base.” He
 recommends  buying Applied Materials shares.  For the third quarter, which ended July 28, the Santa
Clara, California-based company posted profit of $168 million,
or 14 cents a share. On average, analysts had projected net
income of 17 cents. A year earlier, net income was $218 million,
or 17 cents. Revenue fell 16 percent.  Demand Indicator  Applied Materials sells equipment to chipmakers across the
semiconductor industry, making its earnings a broad indicator of
future demand. Investors also look at the company’s forecasts as
a gauge of confidence at its largest customers.  Last month, Applied Materials repeated a prediction that
the total market for machines used to make semiconductors will
be $27 billion to $30 billion this year.  Splinter, 62, has been CEO of Applied Materials since 2003.
Under his leadership, the company has branched out into
machinery that makes flat-panel displays and solar panels.  Dickerson, 56, will take over the top job at Applied
Materials on Sept. 1 and join the board, the company said in a
separate statement. He will retain the role of president, which
he took on last year. He joined Applied Materials in 2011 with
the acquisition of Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates
Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  