-- Asia Stocks Fall as U.S. Jobs Data Spurs Stimulus Concern
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-08-16T09:59:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/asia-stocks-fall-as-yen-strengthens-amid-stimulus-concern.html
Asian  stocks  fell as investors shied
away from riskier assets after an unexpected drop in U.S.
jobless claims fueled speculation the  Federal Reserve  will cut
stimulus next month. Chinese shares reversed the biggest
intraday surge since March 2009.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  sank 3 percent
after Australia’s third-largest bank by market value forecast
interest margins will keep dropping. Hyundai Merchant Marine Co.
jumped 6.9 percent in  Seoul  after  North Korea  and South Korea
agreed to reopen the Gaeseong industrial complex. Chinese stock
exchange officials are investigating a spike in the Shanghai
Composite Index, which soared from a loss of as much as 1
percent to a gain of 5.6 percent in two minutes. Everbright
Securities Co. said it experienced a trading error.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index slid 0.4 percent to 134.37 at
the close of trading, with all but two of the 10 industry groups
on the gauge retreating. More than two shares dropped for each
that rose. The measure gained 0.4 percent this week.  “We expect the slowdown in U.S. bond purchases to happen
sooner rather than later,” John Milroy, a strategist at
Macquarie Private Wealth, told Bloomberg TV in Sydney. “It’s
the key question for markets at the moment. There was a point
where it had to stop and you do get some reason to see profit
taking.”  The Asia-Pacific gauge gained 4.2 percent this year through
yesterday,  lagging  a 16 percent surge on the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX) , as growth slows in  China , the world’s second-largest
economy, and speculation the Fed will curb U.S. bond buying
spurred international investors to sell assets perceived riskier
across Asia and  emerging markets .  Shanghai Rally  China’s Shanghai Composite fell 0.6 percent at the close.
Shanghai’s stock exchange is looking into the earlier spike,
according to a technical-services official at the bourse, who
asked not to be named, citing the exchange’s rules.  Everbright Securities’ Board Secretary Mei Jian declined to
comment further when contacted by  Bloomberg News .  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index fell 0.1 percent, with volume
44 percent above its 30-day average.  A report today showed Hong Kong’s economy expanded 3.3
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, beating the
3.2 percent median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Wellington Earthquake  New Zealand ’s NZX 50 Index declined 0.4 percent. The market
was closed for about an hour due to an earthquake near
Wellington. Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  dropped 0.8 percent.
South Korea’s Kospi index slid 0.2 percent. Singapore’s Straits
Times Index slipped 0.7 percent and Taiwan’s Taiex Index added
0.5 percent.  Japan ’s Topix index and the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average both retreated 0.8 percent. Volume on both gauges was
about 26 percent below the 30-day average.  The Topix index surged 33 percent this year, retaining its
position as the world’s best-performing developed equity market,
amid optimism Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will push through
reforms while the central bank provides record stimulus to spur
an economic recovery.  Claims for U.S. unemployment benefits unexpectedly dropped
last week to the lowest level in almost six years, data
yesterday showed, adding to concern that had 65 percent of
economists in a Bloomberg survey Aug. 9-13 predicting a
reduction in Fed bond purchases in September.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the  S&P 500  rose 0.2 percent. The gauge fell 1.4
percent yesterday, the most since June, as a sales forecast from
Cisco Systems Inc. and a profit outlook from Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. disappointed investors while improving economic data pushed
bond yields higher.  About 49 percent of MSCI Asia Pacific Index members that
have reported earnings this season posted profits that beat
analyst estimates, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The gauge
traded yesterday at 13.1 times estimated earnings compared with
15.1 for the S&P 500 and 13.9 times for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ANZ sank 3 percent to A$29.45. Group net interest margin
excluding the bank’s global markets business, a key measure of
lending profitability, dropped 3 basis points as at June 30 from
three-months earlier and the lender expects it to decline by
“several more basis points” by the end of the financial year.  J. Front Retailing Co. fell 2.7 percent to 724 yen in  Tokyo 
after reporting a decline in department-store sales.  Hyundai Merchant soared 6.9 percent to 24,650 won in Seoul.
North Korea yesterday reached an agreement with  South Korea  to
reopen the jointly-operated Gaeseong industrial complex that was
closed in April as ties deteriorated over the North’s nuclear
program.  Magic Holdings International Ltd., a Chinese maker of
cosmetic facial masks, surged 19 percent to HK$6.01. L’Oreal SA,
the world’s largest cosmetics maker, will pay HK$6.30 per share
for Hong Kong-based Magic, the companies said in a joint filing
yesterday, a premium of about 25 percent over yesterday’s close.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  