-- Australia Carbon to Survive Rudd-Abbott Standoff: Energy
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   M i k e   A n d e r s o n
-- 2013-08-16T09:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/australia-carbon-to-survive-rudd-abbott-standoff-energy.html
Electricity markets are showing
 Australia ’s biggest polluters will have to pay for their  carbon
emissions  regardless of who wins the Sept. 7 election.  With Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  seeking to reduce the cost
of CO2 permits to an estimated A$6 ($5.48) a metric ton and his
rival  Tony Abbott  vowing to scrap carbon prices altogether,
power futures signal the cost of emissions will be about A$10 a
ton by 2015, up from A$7 two months ago, according to Deutsche
Bank AG and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)   While the buying and selling of United Nations carbon
credits evaporates and  Europe ’s system founders under a glut of
allowances, futures traders in Australia are betting some part
of the system introduced by ex-Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ,
making polluters pay for their  greenhouse gases , will survive
beyond the election. Though there’s little chance the 2014 fixed
price -- at A$25.40 a ton the highest in the world -- will
remain, that doesn’t mean companies such as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
and EnergyAustralia Holdings Ltd. will end up paying nothing,
according to Mark Schneider at  Investec Plc. (INVP)   “There’s a whole raft of possibilities that quite
legitimately don’t result in the abandonment of the carbon price
in the next 12 months,” Schneider, the Sydney-based head of the
power-investment group at Investec, said in a phone interview.
“No doubt it is going to be harder to remove the legislation
than anticipated.”  ‘Toxic Tax’  Before Rudd oustedGillardin a  Labor Party  leadership coup
two months ago, the September election was a straightforward
referendum on whether Abbott, the Liberal party leader, would
succeed in repealing a law he calls the “toxic tax,” according
to Hugh Bromley, a Sydney-based analyst at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. Now that Rudd is promising to move to a so-called cap
and-trade system in 2014, a year ahead of schedule, there is a
wider range of possible outcomes, Bromley said.  While Abbott is still the favorite to win enough votes in
the lower house to become prime minister, he has a 25 percent
chance of getting the Senate’s support to throw out the carbon
price, New Energy Finance says.  Australia’s delay in seating new senators until July 2014
is also hurting Abbott’s plans. By the time they are in place,
Australia will have already sold its first carbon permits and
set a limit on emissions in preparation for the cap-and-trade
system under mandates introduced by Gillard.  The increase in Australia’s implied carbon price in the
past few months means traders are betting against repeal,
Bromley said. He computes the change by comparing electricity
futures that include carbon costs with those that don’t in New
South  Wales , Victoria and Queensland.  Futures Comparison  Exchange-traded futures including emission costs are
showing prices of A$47 to A$55 a megawatt for the year ended in
July 2015, he said. Over-the counter contracts excluding carbon
for the same period now trade for A$39 to A$48, depending on the
region. The difference between those two contracts, after
adjustments, averaged about A$10 in July after Rudd was
reinstated.  “The  electricity market  seems to be pricing in some
prospect of a carbon price,” Tim Jordan, a Sydney-based analyst
at Deutsche Bank, said in an interview. The increase in prices
in recent months suggests the Senate may block any attempt by
Abbott to repeal the law or the possibility that flexible prices
will replace the fixed rate, he said.  The implied carbon price of A$10 shows how electricity
traders are discounting Gillard’s fixed price and the odds that
carbon pricing will be intact by 2015, said Mike McKensey, the
head of carbon trading at Westpac in Sydney.  Regulatory Signals  “There is no doubt that carbon pricing has been influenced
by changing political and regulatory signals over the last two
years,” McKensey said in an e-mail.  Power markets aren’t giving clear indications about the
outlook to more than 300 companies bound by the 2011
legislation, said Martijn Wilder, head of the climate-change
practice at  Baker & McKenzie  Ltd. in Sydney. With competing
ideas on the table for reducing Australia’s emissions by 5
percent before the end of the decade, most emitters are merely
complying with the immediate requirements of Gillard’s law, he
said.  “Australian companies are assuming there will be some form
of carbon pricing,” Tony Wood, energy-program director at the
Melbourne-based Grattan Institute, said in a phone interview.
“That doesn’t mean you can put a number on it. The real
frustration is that the form of that is not clear.”  Fixed Price  The current fixed price of A$24.15 that Australian emitters
pay for permits is four times the European rate and almost
double California’s price, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Gillard imposed the fixed levy for the three years
starting in July 2012 to win support from the Greens Party for
her minority government to start to lower the highest emissions
per capital in the developed world.  The fixed rate is set to rise again in July 2014 to A$25.40
before Australia shifts to market pricing and links with the
European market a year later. A glut in Europe, the largest
emissions-trading system, has reduced the average price of
permits to about 4.34 euros ($5.79) this year, or about A$6.34.
December EU carbon permits advanced 1 cent today to 4.38 euros a
ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London at 10:47 a.m.  Prices are even lower in the  United Nations ’ so-called
offset market, averaging 41 euro cents. The existing law would
allow Australian emitters to use a combination of UN and EU
permits for as much as half of their obligations in the trading
system, which is scheduled to start in July 2015.  Early Start  Rudd would give Australian emitters access to these lower-priced, imported permits even earlier. Since returning to
office, he has appointed a new climate minister and drafted a
bill that would reduce the cost of polluting to an estimated A$6
a ton by hastening the start of carbon trading to July 2014.  Santos Ltd. (STO) , the Adelaide-based energy company building the
$18.5 billion Gladstone liquefied natural gas project in
Queensland state, said it supports a move to a market price as
soon as possible.  “I do support having a price on carbon,” Santos Chief
Executive Officer David Knox told reporters today. “The key
thing for us is to make the move to a level playing field” with
competitors in the LNG industry.  Rudd’s Labor party is trailing behind Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition by 4 percentage points, according to a
Newspoll published in the Australian newspaper Aug. 12. That
compares with a 14-point deficit when Gillard was leader.  Trading Licenses  More than 100 companies have received licenses from the
 Australian Securities and Investments Commission  to trade
carbon. The list mainly includes banks such as Westpac and
Deutsche Bank and carbon-trading specialists such as COzero.  Power generators are also starting to prepare for carbon
trading.  AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK) , owner of the Loy Yang coal-fired power
station in Victoria state, said it’s at the early stages of
figuring out what would be required.  “We’ve never been a supporter of a carbon tax,” AGL
Managing Director Michael Fraser said in a July 31 interview in
Sydney. Still, power generators aren’t likely to know for months
after the election what kind of system they will face, he said.  EnergyAustralia, the Australian unit of Hong Kong’s biggest
electricity supplier, said its carbon-trading team has been in
place for several years. Abbott’s threat to repeal carbon
pricing and Rudd’s “knee-jerk” proposal are hurting
investment, the Melbourne-based company said.  Investment Constraint  “The government’s new policy on the ETS was developed on
the run,” Clare Savage, the executive manager for strategy and
corporate affairs, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“Uncertainty around carbon policy is constraining investment in
the sector and more broadly across the economy.”  BHP Billiton , the world’s largest mining company, declined
to comment, according to an official in the Singapore office,
which has responsibility for Australia.  Most emitters aren’t thinking beyond the end of Gillard’s
second year of fixed pricing, said Wilder of Baker & McKenzie.  “The long-term approach is pretty much on hold,” he said.
“But there’s a general expectation that there will be some sort
of carbon price and a general appreciation that it will be quite
difficult to repeal the legislation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Anderson  in Singapore at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  