-- Barclays Sees Record Profit in Pakistan After Cutting Costs
-- B y   F a s e e h   M a n g i
-- 2013-08-16T07:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/barclays-sees-record-profit-in-pakistan-after-cutting-costs.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-largest lender by assets, expects its Pakistan unit to post
record profit this year as cost cutting measures help it weather
interest rates at a seven-year low.  After closing its retail operations in Pakistan about three
years ago, the London-based bank is focused on multinational
companies, large corporations, financial institutions and high
net worth individuals in the country, said Shazad Dada, chief
executive officer of the lender’s local unit. He declined to
elaborate on this year’s profit forecast.  Banks in South Asia’s second-biggest economy after India
face tighter loan margins after the government on June 21
unexpectedly cut interest rates to stimulate an economy battered
by blackouts and a Taliban insurgency on its northwest border
with  Afghanistan . Since opening operations in  Pakistan  in July
2008, Barclays has pared its headcount and cut branches there by
almost half.  “We have cut down costs by half in the past few years,”
Dada, 47, said in an interview in Karachi. “Sometimes you need
to shrink to expand. You need to reset in view of the economic
environment.”  The bank has reduced its branch network to eight outlets
from 15. Existing branches serve customers in Pakistan’s largest
cities: Lahore, Islamabad, Karachi and Rawalpindi.  Earnings Rise  Dada sees business potential in trade and foreign direct
investment where being an overseas bank will give Barclays an
advantage.  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food company, is among
the Pakistan unit’s largest corporate customers, he said.  “There is a lot more potential within this segment,” he
said. “We have most business groups we had targeted. The next
phase is deepening those relationships.”  Barclays Pakistan reported a net loss of 1.15 billion
rupees ($11.2 million) last year after posting its first net
income of 445 million rupees in 2011, according to financial
statements.  Net income at the unit rose eightfold to 107.6 million
rupees in the quarter ended March 31. Only four of 17 listed-banks on Karachi’s benchmark stock index reported a rise in the
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “They are small in size and only cater top-tier of
corporate sector,” said Raza Jafri, head of research at AKD
Securities Ltd. by phone in Karachi. “Most banks may not see
growth in 2013 compared with last year due to declining interest
rates. This year will be poor for the banking sector.”  State Bank of Pakistan on June 21 lowered the discount rate
to 9 percent from 9.5 percent after cutting the benchmark
interest rate by 2.5 percentage points last year. The next rate
decision is due this month.  Seven-Year Low  Barclays Chief Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins  in February
pledged to cut costs, close businesses that hurt the bank’s
reputation or weren’t profitable, mend relations with regulators
and pay more of its profits to shareholders. The restructuring
includes shedding 1.7 billion pounds ($2.7 billion) in annual
expenses by 2015, eliminating 3,700 jobs and reducing costs to
about 55 percent of income from 71 percent in the first quarter.  Pakistan bank earnings “will be a tale of two cities,”
said Dada, who started his career in the U.S. and headed
Deutsche Bank AG’s local operations. “Only banks that have
their strategy right will succeed this year with declining
interest rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Faseeh Mangi in Karachi at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  