-- BHP Says May Face Regulator Sanctions in Anti-Corruption Probe
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-08-16T01:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/bhp-says-may-face-regulator-sanctions-in-anti-corruption-probe.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, may face enforcement actions by U.S.
regulators in relation to possible breaches of anti-corruption
laws linked to the Beijing Olympics and terminated projects.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and  Department
of Justice  recently notified the company of “the issues they
consider could form the basis of enforcement actions and
discussions are continuing,” Melbourne-based BHP said today in
a statement. They “relate primarily to matters in connection
with previously terminated exploration and development efforts,
as well as hospitality provided as part of the company’s
sponsorship of the 2008 Beijing Olympics,” it said.  BHP is the subject of U.S. and Australian inquiries into
its dealings with foreign officials, including Chinese
dignitaries, under a multimillion-dollar hospitality and
sponsorship program at the 2008 Olympics, the Age reported in
June. The company is also conducting an internal inquiry that
stems from a 2009 probe by the SEC.  In June, BHP said it had disclosed to relevant authorities
evidence that it uncovered regarding possible violations of
anti-corruption laws involving interactions with government
officials. BHP provided the information to authorities,
including the  U.S. Department of Justice , it said today.  Fiona Hadley, a spokeswoman for BHP, declined to elaborate
on the nature of the enforcement actions the company may face.  “In light of the continuing nature of the investigations
it is not appropriate at this stage for  BHP Billiton  to comment
further or to predict outcomes,” the company said according to
the statement.  BHP fell 1.3 percent to A$36.85 at 11:36 a.m. Sydney time,
while the benchmark index dropped 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  