-- BMW Sees No Rival in Tesla as It Readies Plug-in i8
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-08-16T22:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/bmw-sees-no-rival-in-tesla-model-s-as-it-preps-plug-in-supercar.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s
rechargeable i8 sports car is entering a soon-to-be-crowded
field of supercars with a hint of green. While they tap into
 Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) ’s popularity, they’re for different buyers.  “This is the supercar of the future: It has the driving
performance of an M3, but gets more than 80 miles per gallon,”
Ludwig Willisch, BMW’s North American chief executive officer,
said Aug. 15 in an interview in Pebble Beach,  California .
Relative to Tesla’s Model S, the i8 is “a whole different
animal -- it competes with different concepts.”  The early success of Model S, with about 10,000 North
American deliveries in the first half, is signaling there’s a
market for premium rechargeable autos. BMW,  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
Porsche and  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Cadillac are all readying plug-in premium cars that could pull sales from Tesla. And Honda
Motor Co.’s Acura NSX will be a made-in-America hybrid.  BMW will show a production version of the plug-in hybrid i8
coupe at the Frankfurt auto show next month that’s to go on sale
in the U.S. in early 2014. Pricing, also to be announced next
month, will be less than $150,000, Willisch said. Model S starts
at about $70,000.  While  Model S  is propelled solely by lithium-ion battery
power, BMW’s carbon fiber and aluminum i8 uses electric power
for the front wheels and a three-cylinder gasoline engine for
the rear tires. The system delivers a combined 362 horsepower to
speed the car from 0 to 62 miles (100 kilometers) per hour in
just 4.5 seconds, while delivering an average of 94 miles per
gallon, BMW said.  Sneak Peek  Willisch declined to provide a U.S. sales target for the i8
or the lower-priced i3 electric car that also goes on sale early
next year. Reporters got a sneak peek at the i8 on Aug. 15, when
cameras and phones weren’t permitted.  Tesla declined to comment specifically about the i8.  “The more automakers who commit to making an electric
vehicle that customers want to purchase, the more the segment of
the industry can grow and become widely accepted,” Shanna Hendriks, a spokeswoman for the  Palo Alto , California-based
company, said yesterday.  Porsche this week is also showing its prototype 918 Spyder
plug-in hybrid supercar at Pebble Beach, home to the annual
Concours d’Elegance classic car show and auction. Tesla, a
company that often defies auto-industry conventions, isn’t
participating in any official capacity.  Catching Lightning  “Tesla was able to catch lightning in a bottle -- almost
literally -- in the Model S,” said Jack Nerad, industry analyst
and executive editor for Kelley  Blue Book . “It came at the
right time and the right price, and it has established for
itself a ‘cool factor.’ Part of the cool factor is the car
itself, but other elements include its all-electric drivetrain,
the fact that it comes from an independent auto manufacturer and
the fact that the independent manufacturer is not from the  auto
industry  but instead from the Internet and high-tech world.”  The success of Palo Alto, California-based Tesla’s Model S
“absolutely” convinces Munich-based BMW there’s a market for
premium rechargeable vehicles, Willisch said.  “If you have a compelling offer, people go for it,” he
said. “A lot of so-called supercars being built right now are
supercars of the past, based on concepts that have been around
for years.”  The i8 differs from Model S in that it is fundamentally a
performance-oriented car, said Hendrik Wenders, product manager
for the model.  “Model S has its merits, but it is a big sedan,” Wenders
said. “It appeals to a different kind of buyer. I do not
perceive it as a competitor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Pebble Beach , California at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  