-- Boeing Asks Airlines to Check 787s for Fire-Suppression Flaw
-- B y   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a   a n d   A n a n d   K r i s h n a m o o r t h y
-- 2013-08-16T11:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/boeing-asks-airlines-to-check-dreamliner-after-extinguisher-flaw.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  asked airlines to inspect
their 787 Dreamliner jets to ensure proper configuration of
fire-extinguishing bottles after this week uncovering a defect
it said stemmed from an error that occurred at a supplier.  Boeing has provided 787 operators with directions on
addressing improperly configured bottles, with the inspection of
each plane likely to take only a few minutes, Rob Henderson, a
company spokesman, said today. The fault doesn’t present an
immediate flight-safety issue, Boeing said.  The 787 suffered its latest setback earlier this week after
 ANA Holdings Inc. (9202) , the model’s biggest operator, found wiring
defects in the fire-suppression system on three aircraft.
Boeing’s flagship jet, which made its commercial debut in 2011,
is already under scrutiny following a fire in  London  last month
that U.K. investigators linked to an emergency beacon.  “The safety of crews and passengers on board our airplanes
is our top priority,” Henderson said in the e-mail.
“Improperly configured components are not acceptable and this
issue is being addressed promptly.”  ‘Aware’  The bottle-configuration error occurred at a facility run
by supplier Kidde, a  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  unit, he said.  “We are aware of the issue and we are working with Boeing
to help resolve the matter,” Dan Coulom, a spokesman for UTC
Aerospace Systems -- which includes Kidde -- said by e-mail.  ANA detected the fault in a flight that was due to depart
 Tokyo ’s Haneda airport on Aug. 14. The defect would trigger the
wrong extinguisher in the event of a blaze in one of the two
engines of the composite-material Dreamliner, ANA said.  The bottles are not the only means of putting out a fire in
the engines, and there are multiple redundancies within the
extinguishing system, Henderson said.  The 787 resumed service with ANA and  Japan Airlines (9201)  Co.
Ltd. on June 1 after a global grounding spurred by meltdowns in
lithium-ion batteries on the carriers’ jets. Boeing had handed
over 74 Dreamliners to 13 customers through Aug. 15, the company
said on its website, with more than 30,000 flights flown.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net ;
Anand Krishnamoorthy in Singapore at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at   anandk@bloomberg.net  