-- BofA Will Dissolve Merrill Lynch Unit While Keeping Name
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-08-16T21:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/bofa-plans-to-dissolve-merrill-lynch-to-simplify-company.html
Merrill Lynch & Co., the 99-year-old
firm known for its “thundering herd” of brokers pitching
stocks to Main Street, may cease to exist as a legal entity more
than four years after being acquired by  Bank of America Corp.   While Bank of America will keep the Merrill Lynch brand for
its retail brokerage and investment bank, the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based company plans to dissolve the subsidiary as early
as the fourth quarter, according to an Aug. 2  filing . The firm
will assume Merrill Lynch’s obligations and debt.  Bank of America, the second-biggest U.S. lender by assets,
is simplifying its structure after Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ’s predecessor bought Merrill Lynch in 2009. Merging
the legal entity could help Moynihan hit his $8 billion-a-year
cost-cutting target and comply with regulators who want to make
the biggest banks easier to resolve in a crisis.  “Less-complex structures would increase the success of
resolution planning via living wills in the case of potential
worst-case financial distress scenarios,” David Hendler, an
analyst at CreditSights Inc., said today in an e-mail with the
subject line: “Bye Bye Merrill Lynch & Co.?”  Dissolving the legal entity also ends Merrill Lynch’s need
to file separate regulatory disclosures. The move will have “no
impact” on how the firm serves clients or on the Merrill Lynch
brand, said  Jerry Dubrowski , a Bank of America spokesman.  Merrill Lynch had about $62 billion in long-term  debt  as of
the second quarter, Hendler said. The move shouldn’t affect
Merrill Lynch  bonds  because spreads have already converged with
those of the parent company, Hendler said.  Troubled Takeover  Bank of America faced regulatory probes, investor lawsuits
and criticism from lawmakers over claims it didn’t warn
shareholders about Merrill Lynch’s mounting losses before they
voted to buy the firm for $18.5 billion.  Last year, Bank of America agreed to pay $2.43 billion to
investors who suffered losses during the takeover, engineered by
former CEO Kenneth D. Lewis as the world’s biggest financial
firms teetered near collapse during the 2008 credit crisis.
Merrill’s operations were credited with fortifying Bank of
America in the years that followed as costs piled up from bad
home loans and credit cards.  According to a company history, founder Charles Merrill
solidified his reputation on Wall Street by advising clients to
sell stocks prior to the crash of 1929. The firm went public in
1971 and later in the decade introduced its corporate logo, the
charging bull that Merrill executives have said is one of the
most recognizable brands in the world.  Merrill Lynch had about 14,000 financial advisers as of
June 30, excluding those working at bank branches. Bank of
America’s entire staff was 257,158.  Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Inc., the firm’s
broker-dealer unit, will continue to exist as a subsidiary, said
Susan McCabe, a Bank of America spokeswoman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  