-- Bonds Upended as AAA Yields Exceed AAs on Tapering
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-08-16T11:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/bonds-upended-as-aaa-yields-exceed-aas-on-tapering.html
Corporate bonds with AAA ratings are
yielding more than debt graded a tier lower, a divergence that’s
happened only twice in the past decade as investors sour on
securities with the most to lose when  interest rates  rise.  The average yield of 2.86 percent for $34.2 billion of the
highest-rated bonds in a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index on
Aug. 13 was 0.27 percentage point more than the average for AA
bonds. The last time that happened was in early 2009, when
derivative traders roiled by the worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression were treating then-AAA borrower General
Electric Co. like junk.  Speculation that the  Federal Reserve  may pull back on its
unprecedented stimulus measures as soon as next month is roiling
the  bond market  as investors shift away from securities likely
to be hurt by rising rates. A measure of sensitivity to
benchmark rates is the highest for AAA bonds relative to AA debt
in at least a decade, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show.  “Investors have been grabbing credit risk over interest
rate risk, so there’s more desire for lower credits and a little
bit less desire for the AAA credits,” said George Rusnak, the
national director of fixed-income for Wells Fargo Private Bank
in Philadelphia, which manages $170 billion. “Ultimately, if
there’s significant dislocation between the two, people are
going to exploit that.”  J&J, Google  The divergence is leaving debt sold by AAA rated  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) , the 120-year-old maker of health-care products from
Band-Aid bandages to Tylenol, yielding an average 3.1 percent as
of Aug. 14, 1.2 percentage points more than securities issued by
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , the Internet search engine owner that’s graded two
steps lower.  The effective duration for debt of  New Brunswick , New
Jersey-based J&J was 9, compared with 4.8 for  Mountain View ,
California-based Google, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show. A greater duration signals higher sensitivity of bond
prices to changes in interest rates.  The effective duration for all AAA rated debt has climbed
to 8.1, close to the record 8.2 reached last month and up from
5.7 at the end of 2008, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show. That compares with a 6.16 duration for AA graded bonds,
which has risen from 5.5 in December 2008.  “We’ve seen a revisit and comfort moving back into lower
rated” securities, Mark Pibl, the head of credit strategy at
Pierpont Securities LLC in  New York , said in a telephone
interview.  PRA Loan  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. reached the highest
level in more than four weeks as fewer jobless claims added to
concern the Fed will begin to curtail stimulus next month. The
market for  commercial paper  expanded to more than $1 trillion
for the first time in six weeks. PRA Holdings is seeking $950
million in loans to support the clinical research firm’s buyout
by KKR & Co. and its merger with ReSearch Pharmaceutical
Services Inc.  Bonds of Fairfield, Connecticut-based  GE (GE)  were the most
actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers yesterday, accounting for 3.6 percent of the volume of
dealer trades of $1 million or more, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Credit Benchmarks  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, rose 0.12 basis point to 17.75 basis points.
The gauge widens when investors seek the perceived safety of
 government securities  and narrows when they favor assets such as
corporate bonds.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 4.2
basis points to a mid-price of 79.6 basis points, the highest
since July 10, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Claims for jobless benefits declined by 15,000 to 320,000
in the week ended Aug. 10, the fewest since October 2007, from a
revised 335,000, according to a Labor Department report released
yesterday.  Commercial Paper  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index , tied to 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings, dropped 0.7 to 98.5 at 12:10 p.m. in
 London . In the Asia-Pacific region, the Markit iTraxx Asia index
of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan  climbed 5 to 142.  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
rose $15.9 billion to $1.004 trillion in the week ended Aug. 14,
the biggest jump in more than two months to reach the highest
level since the period ended July 3, the Fed said yesterday on
its website.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as payroll
and rent.  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index
dropped to an almost five-week low, falling 0.08 cent to 97.97
cents on the dollar. The measure, which tracks the 100 largest
dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans, has returned 3.11
percent this year.  Emerging Markets  The financing for PRA Holdings is being arranged by UBS AG,
Jefferies Group Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG, KKR’s lending arm
and Citigroup Inc., according to a person with knowledge of the
transaction, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. The deal includes a five-year, $125
million revolving line of credit and an $825 million first-lien
term piece that matures in seven years.  In  emerging markets , relative yields widened 2 basis points
to 338 basis points, or 3.38 percentage points, according to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index . The measure has
averaged 301.9 basis points this year.  Yields on AAA bonds inverted with the lower-rated debt in
January for the first time since March 2009, when yields on the
highest-ranked bonds surged to as high as 8.27 percent amid the
financial crisis.  Losing Luster  Bonds issued by GE’s finance unit rose to more than 9
percent that month and traded as if the company were rated Ba1,
one step below investment grade, according to data compiled by
Moody’s Corp.’s capital markets research group. Moody’s and S&P
both stripped GE of its top rankings the same month.  The importance of holding a AAA rating in the corporate-bond market has lessened as interest rates fell to unprecedented
lows. The number of non-financial AAA companies in the U.S. has
dwindled to four from more than 60 in the early 1980s, according
to S&P.  Pfizer Inc., the world’s largest drugmaker, lost its AAA
rating from S&P in October 2009, about three years after Moody’s
cut its grade on the company.  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. was stripped of its AAA rating by Moody’s in April
2009 and by S&P the next year.  “There’s a limited number of names,” said Anthony Valeri,
a market strategist in  San Diego  with LPL Financial Corp., which
oversees $350 billion. “There’s not much way to get
diversification in higher-quality corporates.”  Treasuries Slump  The extra yield investors demand to own AAA bonds instead
of similar-maturity Treasuries has narrowed to 70 basis points,
18 basis points less than yield spreads on AA debt, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show. The spread gap has
narrowed from a more than two-year wide of 112 basis points in
October 2011.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has sent Treasury yields
higher this year after outlining a plan in June that the central
bank could start curtailing the current pace of bond buying this
year and end them around mid-2014 if growth is in line with the
central bank’s estimates.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries, a benchmark for corporate and
consumer borrowing rates, jumped to as high as 2.82 percent
yesterday, the highest intraday level in more than two years.  Rising long-term interest rates are prompting investors to
seek out shorter maturing corporate bonds, LPL’s Valeri said.
The average yield on 30-year Treasuries has climbed to 3.46
percentage points  more  than those for two-year notes, Bloomberg
data show.  Sales of three-year debt made up 25.8 percent of U.S.
investment grade offerings last month, the most since April
2011, Bloomberg data show. Offerings of 30-year debt fell to
5.39 percent in July, down from this year’s peak of 11.6 percent
in May.  “AAA isn’t what it used to be,” Valeri said. “The market
views AA as very good quality and it gets lumped in together
with AAA.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 