-- Korea Finance’s Biggest Dollar Bonds in a Year Rise in Trading
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-08-16T05:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/bond-risk-increases-in-asia-pacific-credit-default-swaps-show.html
Korea  Finance Corp.’s $500 million
of U.S. dollar-denominated bonds, its biggest issue in the
currency in more than a year, rose after investors offered to
buy seven times the available notes yesterday.  The five-year securities, which priced at 99.456 cents on
the dollar, were quoted at 99.6 cents as of 11:16 a.m., Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show. The company paid 145
basis points more than Treasuries to sell the debt, a spread
that narrowed to 140 basis points today, according to RBS.  Borrowers from Asia’s fourth-largest economy have accounted
for 75 percent of dollar issuance from the region outside  Japan 
this month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  South Korea  is
forecast to expand 2.5 percent this year, up from 2 percent in
2012. In contrast, China and India are struggling with the
slowest growth in at least a decade.  Investors are “looking for names that are reasonably
strong,” said Kaushik Rudra, the Singapore-based global head of
credit research at Standard Chartered Plc. “There’s still a
lack of clarity around a lot of other jurisdictions in Asia,
particularly China and India, so Korea is the one major block
that doesn’t really have those fundamental issues.”  Investors in the U.S. bought 40 percent of Korea Finance’s
bonds, according to a person familiar with the matter. The
company received $3.5 billion of orders from 249 accounts, the
person said. Chinese electricity generator Meiya Power Co., the
last non-Korean issuer to sell dollar debt, by comparison
received about $740 million of orders for its $350 million bond
sale, a person familiar with the matter said at the time.  Suntec Meetings  Suntec Real Estate Investment Trust (SUN)  plans to meet bond
investors from Aug. 19 in Hong Kong, Singapore and  London , a
separate person with knowledge of the matter said today.  The cost of insuring corporate and sovereign bonds from
non-payment in the Asia-Pacific region rose, according to
credit-default swap traders.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index jumped 5 basis points to
120 basis points as of 10:25 a.m. in Sydney, according to
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  prices. The benchmark is headed for its
biggest one-day gain since July 3 and its highest close since
Aug. 2, according to data provider CMA data.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index increased 4 basis points to
96 as of 9:23 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices show. The
gauge is also poised for its biggest one-day advance since July
3 and its highest level since since Aug. 8, according to CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The Markit iTraxx  Asia  index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan climbed 5 basis points to 142 basis
points as of 8:26 a.m. in Singapore,  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  prices show. The measure is on track for its
highest close since Aug. 8, CMA data showed.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  