-- Boston’s Fung Wah May Resume Chinatown Buses to New York
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-08-16T22:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/boston-s-fung-wah-may-resume-chinatown-buses-to-new-york.html
Boston’s Fung Wah bus company, shut
by U.S. regulators in February over safety concerns including
cracked bus frames, is in the final stages of talks about
resuming operations to  New York City .  The company, once the largest Chinatown bus line operating
between the two East Coast cities, obtained a preliminary
agreement to upgrade its safety rating, according to an order
signed by Fung Wah and the Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration on July 29. Subject to confirming it complies
with conditions, the carrier could get back in business.  “The carrier stipulates that it has taken action to
correct the deficiencies in its safety management system,”
according to the agreement. Subject to the company’s compliance,
“FMCSA will conditionally grant the request for change in the
rating.”  Fung Wah has yet to obtain final approval from the federal
agency, and it must separately apply to the  Massachusetts Bay
Transportation Authority , which operates  Boston ’s South Station
bus terminal, to run buses, said Mary-Leah Assad, a spokesman
with the Massachusetts Executive Office of Energy and
Environmental Affairs.  “After taking corrective action, Fung Wah met the
requirements necessary to receive a ‘conditional’ safety
rating,” FMCSA spokeswoman Marissa Padilla said. “FMCSA will
evaluate their application for operating authority.”  According to the agreement with FMCSA, Fung Wah has
submitted documentation six times since April outlining new
safety practices in an attempt to satisfy U.S. regulators.  State Criticism  Massachusetts state officials took a tough tone in their
assessment of Fung Wah in February, saying the company didn’t
understand federal safety rules and was “incapable of
maintaining a fleet of motor coaches.”  Fung Wah had a driver fitness record worse than 97 percent
of the bus industry, according to records on the FMCSA’s
website. Its driving record trailed 66 percent of the industry.  Massachusetts inspectors ordered eight buses off the road
with cracked frames, according to a letter from the state’s
Department of Public Utilities. The state also said the company
made inadequate repairs of the frames, resulting in even larger
cracks.  The burden will be on the company and regulators to show
that the company has turned itself around in less than 5 1/2
months, said Dan Ronan, spokesman for the  American Bus
Association , the Washington-based trade group for motorcoach
operators and tour companies.  “The industry will be watching closely to make sure they
comply with the order, and their commitment to safety is
sincere,” Ronan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  