-- Brazil Real Tumbles Most in World as Mantega Says Drop Helpful
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-08-16T21:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/brazil-real-declines-as-fed-concern-overshadows-intervention.html
Brazil ’s real tumbled the most in 15
months after Finance Minister Guido Mantega said a weaker
currency was good for local industry, deepening a selloff
sparked by concern the U.S. will curb monetary stimulus.  The real depreciated 2.2 percent to 2.3925 per dollar at
the close of trading in Sao Paulo, the worst performance among
all currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The real lost 5 percent
this week. Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 rose
27 basis points, or 0.27 percentage point, to 10.33 percent.  Brazil’s currency has lost 15 percent in the past three
months, boosting the cost of imports and adding to inflation
that already exceeds central bank targets. The exchange rate is
at a level that’s good for local industry, Mantega told
reporters in Sao Paulo today. The currency will be volatile
until U.S. policy makers clarify their plans for paring back an
$85 billion a month bond-buying program, he said.  “If he says it’s at a good level, that means the price of
the dollar will only rise,” Jose Carlos Amado, a currency
trader at Renascenca Corretora, said by phone from Sao Paulo.
“No one knows the parameters for the real’s value after the Fed
reduces stimulus.”  The real’s decline to a 4 1/2-year low prompted the central
bank to announce yesterday that it will roll over more than $5
billion in currency swap contracts designed to limit losses.  The rollover of 100,800 contracts due Sept. 2 began today.
Policy makers will continue to intervene in the currency futures
market, the bank said.  Currency Contracts  The central bank auctioned 20,000 currency swap contracts
worth $989 million today then sold an additional $1.08 billion
worth of contracts in a separate auction. It plans to offer
20,000 more contracts on Aug. 19, according to a statement today
after markets closed.  The central bank’s efforts have been overwhelmed by concern
that Brazil’s economy is slumping and speculation that Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will pare stimulus in the U.S.
later this year as signs mount that unemployment is easing in
the world’s largest economy.  Economic activity, a proxy for gross domestic product in
Latin America’s largest economy, rose 2.35 percent in June from
a year earlier, according to a central bank report yesterday,
trailing the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
for a gain of 2.70 percent. Gross domestic product will expand
2.21 percent this year, down from the previous week’s estimates
of 2.24 percent, according to an Aug. 9 central bank survey of
about 100 analysts.  “Rates are rising abroad and we have incoherent actions in
Brazil’s economic policy,”  Jankiel Santos , the chief economist
at Banco Espirito Santo de Investimentos, said by phone from Sao
Paulo. “Brazil is suffering more than other countries.”  Global Selloff  The JPMorgan  Emerging Markets  Currency Index has dropped
6.6 percent from a three-month high reached on May 9 on mounting
bets that the Fed will pare stimulus. The real has lost 16
percent in that span, the worst performance in the world behind
the Syrian pound and Iranian rial.  Brazil’s benchmark stock index, the  Ibovespa (IBOV) , has tumbled
15 percent this year, the worst performance among the world’s
biggest emerging-market countries.  Currency losses are challenging policy makers’ goal of
keeping annual inflation below the 6.5 percent upper limit of a
target range while seeking to bolster economic growth. Bus fare
increases sparked the South American nation’s biggest protests
in two decades in June, prompting President Dilma Rousseff to
step up efforts to counter the real’s depreciation.  Brazil’s annual  inflation  rate fell to 6.27 percent in
July, above the 6.24 percent estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg and down from 6.7 percent the prior month, official
data showed Aug. 7. The central bank targets a rate of 4.5
percent, plus or minus 2 percentage points.  Swap Rates  Swap rates on the January 2015 contract have surged 73
basis points this week, the biggest weekly increase since June
21, as the real’s drop fueled inflation concern and the prospect
of reduced stimulus drove up rates globally.  The real should depreciate to 2.4 per dollar in six months
and 2.45 in the next 12 months, Barclays Plc economists
Guilherme Loureiro and Marcelo Salomon wrote in a report today.  “We have been concerned that the deterioration of
Brazilian fundamentals, which in our base case scenario will
lead to a sovereign credit downgrade in the first quarter of
2014, would pressure the real as we moved through the second
half of 2013,” the economists wrote. “The selloff came faster
than we expected.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  New York  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  