-- Brazil Central Bank to Roll Over Swap Contracts as Real Plunges
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-08-16T01:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/brazil-central-bank-to-roll-over-swap-contracts-as-real-plunges.html
Brazil ’s central bank will start to
roll over more than $5 billion in currency swap contracts after
the country’s real touched a 4 1/2-year low.  The rollover of 100,800 contracts due Sept. 2 will begin
tomorrow, the central bank said in a statement posted on its
website tonight. Policy makers will also continue to intervene
in the currency futures market, the bank said.  A decline in Brazil’s currency this year has pressured
inflation even as the central bank raises the key rate more than
any other country in the world and food prices ease. The real
has been the worst performer against the dollar among major
emerging-market currencies in the past three months, boosting
the cost of imports. Today’s announcement indicates central
bankers are concerned by the effect of a weaker currency on both
consumer prices and companies’ balance sheets, according to
 Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Gradual Investimentos.  “This shows a new degree of aggressiveness from the
central bank,” Perfeito said by phone from  Sao Paulo . “They
are signaling that they are going to continue to intervene in
the  currency market . The real will appreciate.”  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 rose for a
fourth day today, climbing four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 10.06 percent in Sao Paulo, the highest closing level
since June 24. The real fell 0.7 percent to 2.3407 per dollar,
and has lost 13 percent in the past three months.  Annual inflation in July eased to 6.27 percent, the slowest
pace since January, after breaching the upper limit of the
central bank’s target range in March and June. Officials target
annual inflation at 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage
points.  Policy makers in  July (BZPIIPCY)  raised the Selic by 50 basis points
to 8.50 percent after increases of 50 and 25 basis points in May
and April, respectively. The central bank board at its Aug. 27-28 meeting will raise borrowing costs by an additional 50 basis
points, swaps trading shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  