-- Buffett Acolyte Zhao Returns to China Stocks
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-08-16T01:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/buffett-acolyte-returns-to-china-stocks-for-more-than-20-gains.html
Zhao Danyang , the Chinese investor
who won a charity lunch with billionaire  Warren Buffett  in 2008,
led his  hedge funds  to post returns three times more than their
Asian peers this year by shifting assets back to Chinese stocks.  Zhao’s Hong Kong-based Pureheart Capital Asia Ltd. has more
than 80 percent of its $217 million in Chinese stocks traded in
Hong Kong,  Singapore , the U.S. and at home from 50 percent at
the start of 2013, said Jerrie Huang, its business development
manager. The $162 million Pure Heart Value Investment Fund
returned 24 percent this year through July, Huang said. The
Eurekahedge Asian Hedge Fund Index rose 8 percent in the first
seven months.  Pureheart is returning to Chinese stocks after six years of
corrections cut their valuation close to historical lows, Huang
said. It decided in January 2008 to liquidate all five funds
that specialized in  yuan  shares, with combined assets of about
$200 million, because it could no longer find any attractive
investment opportunities, it said in statements then.  “There is no doubt that the China stock market is still in
a  bear market ,” Pureheart said in a July newsletter to
investors, adding it marks a “good time for optimists” like
itself. “The falling share prices will provide a very good
opportunity for us to buy the carefully selected shares at a
bargain.”  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  shed 61 percent of
its value from late December 2007 through the end of last week
and the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  tracking Chinese
companies listed in the city fell 40 percent.  China Risks  The Shanghai gauge,  valued  at 48 times earnings on Oct. 31,
2007, touched a 10-year-low of 11 times earnings on June 28,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index reached a 10-year-low of 7.6 times earnings on
June 30, after hitting 31 times on Oct. 31, 2007.  Pureheart’s move pits it against investors such as  Jim
Chanos , founder of the $6 billion-hedge fund Kynikos Associates
Ltd., who has warned since at least February 2010 of a pending
property market slump putting China on a “treadmill to hell”
and has bet the country’s bank shares would fall.  China equity funds saw investor redemptions in 20 of the
last 22 weeks, EPFR Global, which tracks funds with $19.6
trillion of combined assets, said in an e-mailed statement dated
Aug. 5.  ‘Major Bubble’  Pureheart started buying Chinese stocks listed in Hong Kong
and China in March 2009, seeing a  rebound , only to depart again
in June the following year.  It sold in 2010 because “no country will see a new  bull
market  just two or three years after a major bubble” in 2007,
Zhao said during a teleconference with investors on June 25, a
transcript of which was seen by Bloomberg.  Pureheart shifted the bulk of its investment back to
Chinese stocks this year, he told investors. The price-to-book
and earnings multiples of both the Shanghai and  Hong Kong 
indexes declined to about half of their 10-year averages this
year, according to Bloomberg data.  Pureheart is most bullish about Chinese  consumer goods  and
pharmaceutical stocks, because of rapid income growth of low-income households in the last five years and an aging
population, its latest newsletter said. Among its holdings is
Tong Ren Tang Technologies Co., a unit of the Chinese
traditional medicine maker whose Hong Kong share price  jumped  54
percent this year.  It has sold almost all of its Indian stock holdings and
plans to further cut its  Vietnam  investments, it said in the
July newsletter.  Buying China  The $55 million Pure Heart Natural Selection Fund, set up
in March 2009 to invest in stocks with at least $1 billion in
market value, returned 26 percent in the first seven months,
Huang said. The Value Investment Fund focuses on smaller
companies.  Much of the 7 percent July returns in both funds came from
adding Chinese stocks during the June sell-offs, said Huang. The
Shanghai  index  retreated 14 percent that month on concerns of an
economic slowdown as money-market rates rose to records.  The
Hong Kong gauge fell 12 percent.  Zhao in 2004 set up the first “sunshine private fund” in
 China , a lightly regulated fund that raised money from wealthy
Chinese individuals to invest in domestic markets. The oldest of
the five such funds Pureheart closed in 2008 returned 192
percent over its life, including dividends, Huang said.  The closures left Pureheart with the Value Investment Fund
managed out of Hong Kong and previously focused on overseas-listed Chinese stocks. It scouted for opportunities in the U.S.,
 India , Vietnam and  Greece  after 2008, according to Pureheart’s
annual letters to investors for the years of 2011 and 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  