-- Bulgaria Lawmakers Overturn Presidential Budget Veto on New Debt
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-08-16T11:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/bulgaria-lawmakers-overturn-presidential-budget-veto-on-new-debt.html
Bulgaria ’s parliament overturned a
presidential budget veto, allowing Prime Minister Plamen Oresharski’s 10-week-old cabinet to raise new debt as it works
to ease two months of protests.  Lawmakers voted 130 to 93 with no abstentions to back the
motion, Speaker Mihail Mikov said today in the capital, Sofia.
President Rosen Plevneliev vetoed parts of the bill on Aug. 7,
saying the public needed more details on how the government
plans to use 1 billion lev ($682 million) of new borrowing.  “We are in a situation of economic stagnation and there’s
a possibility we’ll even slide into recession,” Finance
Minister Petar Chobanov told lawmakers. “The main reason for
this is highly overestimated revenue and overdue payments by the
government to businesses. The revision will provide the funds
needed to overcome this situation.”  Political leaders are struggling to maintain public
confidence as voters grow increasingly upset with what they see
as a corrupt political system in the European Union’s poorest
member. Oresharski came to power May 29 after anti-austerity
protests forced out his predecessor, Boyko Borissov, and
triggered snap elections. Plevneliev, elected in 2011, said July
5 that a new ballot may be needed.  The budget revision cuts this year’s economic-growth
forecast to 1 percent from 1.9 percent and widens the planned
fiscal gap to 2 percent of gross domestic product from 1.3
percent previously to help cover increased social spending,
reimbursement of value-added tax receipts and payment for public
services to companies.  The new borrowing is necessary to service debt this year
and next, helping keep the government’s fiscal reserve above the
4.5 billion-lev legal requirement and avoid borrowing at a
higher cost in 2014, according to the Finance Ministry.  The yield on Bulgaria’s euro-denominated bonds due 2017 was
2.358 percent at 1:41 p.m. in Sofia. The cost of insuring the
country’s debt against non-payment for five years using credit-default swaps rose one basis point to 112.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  