-- Bulgaria Lawmakers Overturn President’s Veto on New Debt
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-08-16T12:58:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/bulgaria-lawmakers-overturn-president-s-veto-on-new-debt-1-.html
Bulgaria ’s parliament overturned a
presidential budget veto, allowing Prime Minister Plamen Oresharski’s 10-week-old cabinet to raise new debt as it works
to ease two months of protests.  Lawmakers voted 130 to 93 with no abstentions to back the
motion, Speaker Mihail Mikov said today in the capital, Sofia.
President Rosen Plevneliev vetoed parts of the bill on Aug. 7,
saying the public needed more details on how the government
plans to use 1 billion lev ($682 million) of new borrowing.  “The budget revision will help us fulfill our program to
improve people’s living standards,” Oresharski said in
parliament after the vote. “Now we can repay what we owe
businesses, which will boost economic output and maintain a
healthy fiscal reserve.”  Political leaders are struggling to retain public
confidence amid unease at what voters deem a corrupt political
system in the poorest European Union member. Oresharski came to
power May 29 after anti-austerity protests forced out his
predecessor, Boyko Borissov, triggering a snap vote. Plevneliev,
elected in 2011 on the ticket of Borissov’s opposition Gerb
party, said July 5 that a new ballot may be needed.  Yields, Swaps  The yield on Bulgaria’s euro-denominated bonds due 2017 was
2.358 percent at 1:41 p.m. in Sofia. The cost of insuring the
country’s debt against non-payment for five years using credit-default swaps rose one basis point to 112.  Several hundred people surrounded parliament, blocking
traffic in central Sofia. While some demanded the cabinet’s
resignation, others backed the government, which is backed by
the Socialists and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which
represents ethnic Turks. Oresharski has said he won’t resign
because doing so would further destabilize the country.  The latest round of protests began with the June 14
appointment of media executive Delyan Peevski as head of the
State Agency for National Security. Nationwide demonstrations
forced Peevski, who also has interests in tobacco, banking and
telecommunications, to back away the appointment.  The protests have escalated into daily anti-government
marches that turned violent for the first time on July 23, when
dozens of rock-throwing demonstrators and several policemen were
injured as security forces escorted 120 lawmakers, ministers and
journalists out of the assembly following a 10-hour siege.  Slower Growth  The budget revision cuts this year’s economic-growth
forecast to 1 percent from 1.9 percent and widens the planned
fiscal gap to 2 percent of gross domestic product from 1.3
percent previously to help cover increased social spending,
reimbursement of value-added tax receipts and payment for public
services to companies.  “We are in a situation of economic stagnation and there’s
a possibility we’ll even slide into recession,” Finance
Minister Petar Chobanov told lawmakers. “The main reason for
this is highly overestimated revenue, overdue payments by the
government to businesses and lack of foreign investment.”  Bulgaria’s economy expanded 0.2 percent from a year earlier
in the second quarter and shrank 0.1 percent from the previous
three months, the first contraction since 2009.  The new borrowing is necessary to service debt this year
and next, helping keep the government’s fiscal reserve above the
4.5 billion-lev legal requirement and avoid borrowing at a
higher cost in 2014, according to the Finance Ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  