-- Caisse Returns 4.5% on Equities, Inflation-Linked Assets
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-08-16T19:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/caisse-returns-4-5-on-equities-inflation-linked-assets.html
Caisse de Depot et Placement du
 Quebec  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Sabia  said the pension
fund manager would consider investing in  BlackBerry Ltd. (BB)  if the
smartphone maker were to go private -- though he currently knows
of no such deal being in the works.  Sabia made the comments after Montreal-based Caisse,
Canada’s second-largest pension-fund manager with C$185.9
billion ($180 billion) in assets as of June 30, reported a
first-half return of 4.5 percent. The Caisse held about 163,000
BlackBerry shares as of Dec. 31, according to its 2012 annual
report, and hasn’t disclosed a more recent figure.  After losing subscribers in recent months, BlackBerry said
Aug. 12 it created a special board committee that will evaluate
all possible options, including joint ventures, partnerships or
an outright sale. Prem Watsa, a Toronto businessman and
BlackBerry’s largest shareholder, stepped down from the board,
signaling that he may play a role in rescuing the company.  “If you’re asking me whether we’d be open to looking at
something like that, of course we’d be open to looking at it,”
Sabia told reporters today on a conference call from Montreal.
“Whether we do it or not, I can’t tell you. I have no idea
because that’s not something that’s on the table as we speak.”  Sabia’s comments echo those made by other pension funds,
including the  Canada  Pension Plan Investment Board, which last
week said it was looking at investing in BlackBerry if the
opportunity arose.  The Caisse had C$7.8 billion in investment income in the
first six months of 2013. Its performance matched the 4.5
percent average increase of Canadian pension funds this year, as
estimated in a July report by RBC Dexia Investor Services.  Stocks Gain  Equities, which include public stocks and investments in
closely held companies, drove the first-half gains with a 7.7
percent return. Inflation-sensitive investments such as real
estate returned 6.5 percent while fixed income declined 0.9
percent, the Caisse said.  The Caisse oversees pensions for retirees in the French-speaking province of Quebec, with a dual mandate to maximize
returns and foster economic growth in the province. The Caisse
said it earmarked C$1.5 billion for investments in its home
province in the first six months of 2013, including the creation
of the C$250 million Sodemex Developpement fund to support
natural resources companies.  Sabia said the Caisse stands by the management team of  Rona
Inc. (RON) , the Quebec home-improvement retailer that reported lower-than-expected second-quarter profit two days ago after hiring
Robert Sawyer as CEO in March. The Caisse was Rona’s biggest
investor as of December with a 15 percent equity stake.  “Turning that business around is not an easy thing to
do,” Sabia said of Rona. “Those guys are shoulder to the
wheel, trying to turn around an important company. It’s not like
opening a bottle of Coke -- it’s more complicated. We’re going
to continue to work with them. They are doing good things, they
are doing hard things, and they have our confidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  