-- California Considers Drug Penalty Changes as U.S. Shifts Policy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-08-16T04:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/california-considers-drug-penalty-changes-as-u-s-shifts-policy.html
California  lawmakers are considering
reducing penalties for minor drug offenses as the Obama
administration said it’s taking a similar approach with federal
sentences.  A measure before the state legislature would allow
prosecutors to treat the cases as misdemeanors instead of
felonies. That would reduce the amount of time convicts would
spend behind bars and may help ease state prison crowding.  The issue received national attention this week as U.S
Attorney General Eric Holder ordered changes to what he
described as “draconian” mandatory minimum sentences for
certain non-violent drug offenders. That’s part of a shift in
crime policy in U.S. states that seeks to reduce the number of
people incarcerated. More than 1.5 million people were held in
federal and state facilities in 2012.  “Having national leadership with us can only help our
efforts here in California,” said state Senator Mark Leno, a
Democrat from  San Francisco , the sponsor of the legislation, in
an interview. “Drug sentencing reform is definitely part of the
long-term solution” to crowding, he said.  Leno’s bill passed the Senate in May, and the measure is
pending in the Assembly. No vote has been scheduled. Leno said
he hopes changes at the federal level will add momentum to his
effort.  Legislation that would have reclassified certain drug
offenses as misdemeanors instead of felonies was rejected by
lawmakers last year after opposition from law enforcement
groups.  Sidestepping Minimums  U.S. prosecutors will now sidestep the statutorily required
mandatory minimums by charging low-level, nonviolent offenders
“with offenses for which the accompanying sentences are better
suited to their individual conduct,” Holder said in an August
12 speech in San Francisco.  Holder also described revised criteria for sentence
reductions, expanding the circumstances to include elderly
inmates and certain inmates who are the only caretakers for
dependents. Also, federal prosecutors could leave some crimes
now brought in federal courts to states, Holder said.  California doesn’t know whether that shift means the state
would have to handle more prosecutions, said Jeffrey Callison,
spokesman for the California Department of Corrections and
Rehabilitation.  The U.S. Supreme Court this month let stand a lower court
order that compels California to reduce its prison population by
almost 10,000 inmates by year-end.  Reduction Requirement  A three-judge federal panel in June required the state to
take new steps, potentially including expansion of good-behavior
credits, to reduce its prison population to 137.5 percent of
design capacity by Dec. 31.  California has cut its prison population by 37,000 inmates
since 2008 and now holds 119,000. The capacity is 86,000.  California’s prison system in 2007 locked up almost twice
the number of prisoners that its 33 penitentiaries were designed
to hold.  “California’s overcrowding problem is the result of a set
of tough on crime policies over the years that have taken an
imprisonment first and other options second approach,” said
Douglas Berman, a professor at  Ohio State University ’s Moritz
College of Law in Columbus.  California needs an independent panel to rewrite sentencing
laws and find ways to send fewer people to prison, Berman said.  “Not only has California not been innovative, but in a
state known for Silicon Valley and a state known for helping to
provide lots of things that lots of people are grateful for,
there is this backward approach to incarceration,” Berman said.
“Sentencing reform is a huge missing piece.”  Fewer Inmates  Around the U.S., political leaders from both parties have
been calling for changes in the criminal justice system to
reduce crowding and lower costs. Holder said  Texas  and some
other states have curbed their prison spending with diversion
programs for drug offenders and alternatives to incarceration
for those not considered the worst offenders.  California has taken some steps to send fewer people to
state prison. Voters in 2012 approved a statewide ballot
initiative that modified the state’s 18 year-old “three strikes”
law so that life sentences are imposed only when the third
offense is serious or violent. It allows for some convicts
serving life sentences for non-serious, non-violent offenses to
petition for shorter prison terms.  Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat, in 2011 won approval to
shift felons convicted of nonviolent, low-level crimes to county
jails, or to alternatives such as house arrest and electronic
monitoring. He canceled half of a $7 billion prison construction
plan, saying the additional space wasn’t needed and was the
wrong approach.  The governor’s approach “all but eliminated long prison
sentences for non-serious and non-violent offenses,” Callison
said. “Low-level offenders now serve their time in county jail
or some other form of local supervision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  