-- Canada Railways Boost Lobbying After Deadly Quebec Crash
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-08-16T14:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/canada-railways-boost-lobbying-after-deadly-quebec-crash.html
Canada’s railway industry has
intensified its lobbying efforts following the explosion of a
runaway oil train in  Quebec  last month that killed 47 people.  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)  and  Canadian Pacific Railway
Ltd. (CP)  have both contacted Transport Minister Lisa Raitt since the
explosion, and CN has also communicated with opposition leader
 Thomas Mulcair  of the  New Democratic Party  and Liberal Party
Leader Justin Trudeau, according to federal lobbyist registry
records. The Railway Association of Canada hired Earnscliffe
Strategy Group to discuss the movement of dangerous goods,
regulations and safety training, filings show.  Lawmakers on the country’s transportation committee have
pledged to review rail safety rules once the Transportation
Safety Board completes its investigation into the July 6
explosion of the Montreal, Maine & Atlantic Railway Ltd. train.
The transport department implemented emergency safety
regulations last month that require two operators on trains
carrying dangerous goods.  “CN representatives regularly speak with elected
officials, ministers, and other stakeholders at all levels of
government,” Patrick Waldron, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.
“Since the tragic events that occurred in Lac-Megantic, CN has
also spoken and reached out to local mayors, provincial leaders
and officials across  Canada  with information related to CN’s
safety practices and performances.”  Worst Disaster  An unattended train with 72 tanker cars of crude oil rolled
downhill into the town of Lac-Megantic early on the morning of
June 6, crashing and bursting into flames. About 40 buildings
were destroyed in the country’s worst rail disaster in more than
a century.  The registry shows six Earnscliffe employees have
registered this month to lobby for the rail group on issues
including “policies impacting on the movement of dangerous
goods, including voluntary and regulatory requirements,” and
“policies being developed to ensure regulations governing
safety measures.”  Earnscliffe advised Cnooc Ltd. on its $15.1 billion offer
last year for Nexen Inc. and Alcan Inc. in 2007 on Rio Tinto
Plc’s purchase of the Canadian aluminum maker.  Geoff Norquay, one of the six Earnscliffe lobbyists hired
by the railway group, said by telephone he wouldn’t comment
about his work.  Since the explosion, Montreal, Maine & Atlantic Railway has
filed for bankruptcy and had its operating certificate suspended
because it wasn’t carrying enough liability insurance.  New Minister  Railway association President Michael Bourque and other
employees of the group were previously listed in the federal
lobbyist registry before the explosion, along with executives
from Canadian National and  Canadian Pacific .  Paul Goyette, the railway association spokesman, said in an
e-mail the group has hired outside lobbyist companies before. He
declined to comment on its current work.  Raitt was named Transport Minister in Prime Minister
 Stephen Harper ’s July 15 cabinet shuffle, replacing Denis Lebel.  “For Canadian Pacific, it is good practice to meet a new
Minister of Transport and renew our ongoing commitment to work
with her and her department on industry issues,”  Ed Greenberg ,
a company spokesman, wrote in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  