-- Cathay Names Ivan Chu Chief Executive, Slosar to Become Chairman
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-08-16T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/cathay-names-chu-chief-executive-as-slosar-to-become-chairman.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  named
Ivan Chu as chief executive, two days after Asia’s biggest
international carrier reported its smallest profit in at least
15 years.  Chu, 51, will take over after annual results are announced
in March 2014, and incumbent John Slosar will become chairman,
the Hong Kong-based airline said in a  statement  yesterday.  Swire
Pacific Ltd. (19) , the carrier’s biggest shareholder, said separately
that Slosar, 57, will also become its chairman.  Cathay earlier this week reported first-half profit that
missed analyst  estimates  as cargo revenue dropped and declining
yields in North Asia offset gains from carrying more passengers.
Slosar, who took over in March 2011, cut capacity and phased out
planes to revive  earnings  as competition increased and  Wall
Street  job losses made it difficult to fill premium seats to the
former British colony and other Asian cities.  “I had thought Slosar would have had a longer time in the
pilot seat,” said Timothy Ross, Hong Kong-based transportation
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG. “At some point, the  carrier 
was likely to have had an executive of Chinese ethnic origin to
run the company.”  Slosar had taken over from  Tony Tyler , now the chief
executive officer of the  International Air Transport Association .  Christopher Pratt, chairman of Swire as well as Cathay
Pacific and other affiliated companies, plans to retire after
March, the statements said. Slosar has worked for the Swire
group for 33 years while Chu has spent 29 years in Cathay. He
has been chief operating officer since March 2011.  Succession Plan  The airline’s  shares  fell 0.7 percent to HK$14.24 in Hong
Kong trading yesterday. The announcement was made after the
stock market was closed for trading.  Cathay had a restated loss of HK$929 million in the first
half of last year. It had at six other semi-annual losses since
at least 1998, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Slosar will also take over from Pratt as chairman of  Swire
Properties Ltd. (1972)  and  Hong Kong  Aircraft Engineering Co., also
known as Haeco.  Chu joined Cathay in 1984 and has worked with the group in
Hong Kong, mainland  China ,  Taiwan ,  Thailand  and Australia.
Before he became COO, he was director for service delivery. The
post of COO has been a stepping stone for the top job at the
airline for the last three incumbents.  “There’s some continuity,” said Andrew Orchard, an
analyst at CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. in Hong Kong. “At least,
there seems to be some succession structure that the company is
following. That could only be a good thing.”  Wall Street  Chu will take over as a global churn in the financial
industry damps business and first-class travel. Several banks,
including  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  had all asked senior bankers in Asia to fly
economy on short-haul routes during the global financial crisis
in 2008.  Asian Airlines have invested heavily in the front of their
cabins in recent years to capture valuable corporate accounts.
While business class and first class take up less than 15
percent of total seats on long-haul flights, they account for
half of a flight’s revenue because of the higher prices.  Cathay put on a laser show and hired Lady Gaga, Tina Turner
and Marilyn Monroe lookalikes for the December 2010 unveiling of
its HK$1 billion ($129 million) upgrade of business-class
interiors on its Boeing 777s and Airbus SAS A330s. The carrier
said Jan. 18 it had 47 aircraft equipped with the new seats and
the upgrade will be completed by March.  In June,  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  and China Eastern Airlines
Corp.’s Hong Kong budget carrier sold a stake in their venture
to a company founded by gambling billionaire  Stanley Ho , which
may help pave the way for an operating license.  Once set up it will be the first budget airline Hong Kong-based budget airline, and will offer competition to economy
class passengers flying Cathay.  “Ivan Chu will continue to face competition from low-cost
carriers’ expansion, strategy for China and will have to tackle
Middle East carriers,” CIMB’s Orchard said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  