-- Cattle Slump as U.S. Grocer Holiday Beef Buying Slows; Hogs Drop
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-08-16T16:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/cattle-slump-as-u-s-grocer-holiday-beef-buying-slows-hogs-drop.html
Cattle prices fell on speculation
that U.S. beef demand is slowing as grocers finish stocking up
on meat before the Labor Day holiday on Sept. 2. Hogs dropped.  Two weeks before the holiday, buyers usually have all the
beef and pork they will need, said Rich Nelson, the chief
strategist at Allendale Inc. in McHenry,  Illinois . The Hearth,
Patio and Barbecue Association says Labor Day is the third-most
 popular  day for outdoor grilling. Meatpackers processed 481,000
cattle in the first four days of the week, down 1 percent from a
week earlier, government data show.  “We’re getting some of that buying squared up and
finalized here this week,” with traders anticipating “slow
buying by the retailer now that he’s put in his big orders,”
Lawrence Kane, a senior market adviser at Stewart-Peterson
Group, said in a telephone interview from Yates City, Illinois.  Cattle futures for October delivery declined 0.2 percent to
$1.27875 a pound at 11:11 a.m. on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange.  Earlier, the price touched $1.291, the highest for the
most-active contract since March 13, after Merck & Co. Inc. said
that it was temporarily halting sales of Zilmax, a feed
supplement that can help animals increase lean muscle.  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  said Aug. 8 that it was suspending
purchases of cattle that use Zilmax after a “small percentage”
of animals delivered to multiple locations were lame. That
helped spark the biggest rally in cattle futures since January
on speculation that animals would weigh less at slaughter,
reducing beef supplies.  Prices erased gains today after traders digested the Merck
news, according to Stewart-Peterson Group.  “You don’t change the number of cattle just because you
use or don’t use a product,” Kane said. “It doesn’t have to be
that significant in terms of tonnage.”  Hog futures for October settlement fell 0.3 percent to
87.05 cents a pound in Chicago.  Feeder-cattle futures for September settlement rose 0.2
percent to $1.57375 a pound.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in  Chicago  at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 