-- Chevron Offers to Sell Forties; Angola Crude Exports to Increase
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u   a n d   L a u r a   H u r s t
-- 2013-08-16T16:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/chevron-offers-to-sell-forties-angola-crude-exports-to-increase.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX)  failed to sell North
Sea Forties crude even after lowering its offer. There were no
bids of offers for Russian Urals blend.  Angola,  Africa ’s second-largest oil producer, will export
55 crude cargoes in October, two more than in September, a
preliminary loading program obtained by  Bloomberg News  showed.  North Sea  Chevron was unable to sell Forties for Sept. 6 to Sept. 8
loading at a premium of $1.15 a barrel, 30 cents less than its
offer yesterday, according to a Bloomberg survey of traders and
brokers monitoring the Platts pricing window.  No bids or offers were made for Brent, Oseberg or Ekofisk
crudes. Reported crude trading typically occurs during the
Platts window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time.  Brent for October settlement traded at $110.19 a barrel on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange at the close of the window,
compared with $109.79 in the previous session. The November
contract was at $109.32, a discount of 87 cents to October.  North Sea  Alvheim and connected  oil fields  were shut for
nine days of maintenance, according to  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) , which
operates the field.  “Production from the Greater Alvheim Area is now shut
according to plan,” Ingvar Solberg, a Stavanger, Norway-based
spokesman said in an e-mailed response to questions. Output
halted last night at Alvheim, Volund and Vilje fields, which
feed into Alvheim’s floating production, storage and offloading,
or FPSO, vessel. The Alvheim area produces about 120,000 barrels
a day before closure.  Mediterranean/Urals  PKN Orlen SA closed an import tender earlier today for
100,000 metric tons of Urals for Sept. 1 to Sept. 5 loading,
according to two people with knowledge of matter who asked not
to be identified because the information is confidential. The
result wasn’t known yet.  OAO Surgutneftegas issued a tender to sell Urals loading on
Sept. 5 to Sept. 6 from the Baltic Sea port of Primorsk,
according to two traders who participate in the market. The
tender closes on Aug. 19.  West Africa  Shipments from  Angola  will total 52.76 million barrels, or
1.7 million barrels a day, the plan showed. That compares with a
revised plan of 50.91 million, or 1.7 million barrels a day,
next month. Most consignments are 950,000 to 1 million barrels.
The final program will be released on Aug. 26.  Exports for September increased to 53 lots from 52 after
one Saturno cargo was added, a revised shipping schedule showed.  Nigeria ’s loading programs for October and official selling
prices for September are expected to be released next week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Hurst in London at 
 lhurst3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  