-- Chicago Home County Cut by Moody’s on ‘Formidable’ Pensions
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-08-16T20:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/chicago-home-county-cut-by-moody-s-on-formidable-pension-load.html
Cook County, home to  Chicago , had
the rating on $3.7 billion of general-obligation bonds cut one
level to A1 by Moody’s Investors Service because it faces
“formidable hurdles” in fixing its pension system.  The county of 5.2 million, the second-most-populous in the
U.S., is the latest issuer in  Illinois  to have its rating cut by
Moody’s. The rating company reduced the state’s rank in June to
A3, and last month dropped Chicago’s grade three steps to A3.
The outlook on all three is negative.  Cook County’s downgrade “reflects the formidable hurdles
facing the county in its quest to pursue meaningful pension
reform,” Moody’s said today in a statement. Changes to the
systems must be enacted by the state, which is faced with its
own “legislative paralysis,” the company said.  Illinois lawmakers failed to restructure pensions saddled
with almost $100 billion in unfunded liabilities before the
legislative session ended May 31. They also didn’t act in
special sessions called by Democratic Governor  Pat Quinn  in June
and July.  Illinois’s five state pension systems had 43 percent of
assets needed to cover obligations in fiscal 2011, the lowest
ratio among U.S. states, Bloomberg data show. Quinn, 64, has
said finding a fix “has confounded legislatures and governors
for 70 years.”  “Today’s downgrade is the direct result of the pension
crisis we face and our inability to act without state
legislation,” Owen Kilmer, a spokesman for County Board
President Toni Preckwinkle, said in an e-mailed statement. “We
will continue to be negatively affected by the state’s lack of
attention to local pension funds.”  About half of the county’s tax base includes Chicago, the
third-most-populous U.S. city.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  