-- China Trading Error Reduces Investor Confidence in Stocks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-16T22:45:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/china-shanghai-composite-surges-as-exchange-said-to-investigate.html
The biggest swing in China’s
benchmark equity index since 2009 threatens to further erode
confidence in the nation’s stock market after it lost more money
for investors than any in the world during the past four years.  China’s shares were roiled yesterday by a trading error at
 Everbright Securities Co. (601788)  that spurred a 53 percent surge in
volumes and a swing of more than 6 percent in the  Shanghai 
Composite Index. The gauge  jumped  from a loss of as much as 1
percent to a gain of 5.6 percent in two minutes during the
morning session, then ended the day with a 0.6 percent drop.
Erroneous buy orders from Everbright’s proprietary trading group
sparked the early rally, the securities regulator said.  The Chinese  stock index  has tumbled 40 percent from its
August 2009 high, erasing about $644 billion in market value, as
the world’s second-largest economy slowed and local investors
emptied more than 2 million equity trading accounts. Only
 Greece ’s ASE Index has fallen more in percentage terms.  “The timing was not good for trading errors in  China ,”
Brian Jacobsen, who helps oversee $221.2 billion as chief
portfolio strategist at Wells Fargo Advantage Funds in Menomonee
Falls,  Wisconsin , said by phone yesterday. “There are already a
lot of skeptics out there and an event like that can erode some
people’s confidence.”  The Shanghai Composite has lost 8.8 percent this year,
versus a 9.8 percent gain in the MSCI All-Country World Index.
Chinese stock  accounts  containing funds have dropped to 54.4
million from 57.3 million in June 2011, according to regulatory
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index
of the most-traded Chinese stocks in the U.S. advanced 0.4
percent to 96.44 yesterday.  ‘Going Nuts’  Economic growth slowed for a second straight quarter to 7.5
percent in the three months ended June, extending the longest
streak of expansion below 8 percent in at least two decades.  About 15.3 billion shares of Shanghai Composite companies
changed hands yesterday, versus the 30-day average of 10
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Sixteen of the
measure’s 20 biggest companies by  weighting  rose by the 10
percent daily limit during the morning session.  “I thought the market was going nuts and someone was
coming to manipulate the market,” said Yao Lina, a 33-year-old
accountant working for a food company in Shanghai. “I have no
confidence in the market because there are lots of speculators
playing in it.”  The government restricts access to mainland markets through
its Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor program, which has
granted international firms a combined quota of $44.9 billion as
of July 30. That compares with the $3.1 trillion market value of
locally-listed companies.  Flash Crash  Everbright Securities, the nation’s ninth-largest brokerage
by assets, disclosed its trading error in a statement filed to
the Shanghai exchange. Board Secretary Mei Jian didn’t return a
call and text message seeking comment.  The company’s shares were suspended in Shanghai trading.
 China Everbright Ltd. (165) , which owns a stake in Everbright
Securities, declined 5.5 percent in  Hong Kong .  Disruptions in electronic markets have been under scrutiny
since the May 2010 flash crash, when the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  fell almost 1,000 points in minutes before rebounding.
 Osaka ’s derivatives platform malfunctioned in March, while
orders for Indian stocks improperly entered by a Mumbai
brokerage in October sent the  CNX Nifty Index (NIFTY)  down 16 percent in
eight seconds before it rebounded.  Knight Capital Group Inc. lost more than $450 million after
sending erroneous orders to U.S. exchanges on Aug. 1, 2012,
because of a computer malfunction.  “The U.S. also has fat fingers, it’s normal,” said David Poh, the regional head of portfolio-management solutions at
 Societe Generale ’s private bank, which oversees about $113
billion. “The incident didn’t disrupt our trading. Investors
should be smart enough to know it’s only a technical glitch.”  Bad Timing  The Shanghai measure is  valued  at 11 times reported
earnings, down from 29 times at the peak in 2009. The index,
which traded at a 59 percent premium versus the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index four years ago, is now 30 percent cheaper, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The timing is bad” for big market swings given low
levels of investor confidence, said Ronald Wan, a committee
member at the Hong Kong Securities & Investment Institute.  Yesterday’s surge in stocks was caused by “sizable” buy
orders from Everbright’s proprietary accounts, the China
Securities Regulatory Commission said in a statement. The
 Shanghai Stock Exchange  said operation of its trading system was
normal and trades will be settled as usual, according to a
statement on its official microblog.  ICBC, PetroChina  Xiao Gang, who succeeded  Guo Shuqing  as head of the
securities watchdog in March amid a leadership transition in the
ruling Communist Party, said in the CSRC’s 2012 annual report
published July 16 that the regulator will focus on making the
nation’s capital market more open and efficient while it
strengthens its legal framework.  Yesterday’s initial surge occurred between 11:05 a.m. and
11:07 a.m. in Shanghai. China Minsheng Banking Corp. was among
the earliest stocks affected, with its shares surging to 9.78
 yuan  from 8.83 yuan within one second, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  PetroChina Co. (601857)  and  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd. , the nation’s two biggest companies by market value, also
jumped by the daily limit. Volume in PetroChina was 239 percent
above the three-month average and 269 percent greater than the
average for ICBC, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “I haven’t seen things like this for ages,”Chen Shide, a
Guangzhou-based  money manager  at GF Fund Management Co., which
oversees about $16.7 billion, said by phone. “The  market
sentiment  will continue to remain weak.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  