-- Christie Will Ease Kids’ Access to Pot With Doctor Notes
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-08-16T20:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/christie-will-ease-kids-access-to-pot-with-doctor-notes.html
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie,
a first-term Republican who may run for president in 2016, said
he will sign a bill easing access to medical marijuana for
children as long as parents get three doctors’ notes.  Christie, 50, sent the bill back to lawmakers for changes.
The measure that passed the Democrat-controlled legislature in
June would have lifted a requirement that parents get approval
from three doctors before a child enters the program. He is
seeking to keep that requirement in the law.  “I am making common-sense recommendations to this
legislation to ensure sick children receive the treatment their
parents prefer, while maintaining appropriate safeguards,” he
said in a statement accompanying the so-called conditional veto.
“I am calling on the legislature to reconvene quickly and
address these issues.”  The measure was prompted by the case of Vivian Wilson, a 2-year-old who has Dravet syndrome, a rare and severe epilepsy
that forces her to wear an eye patch to reduce seizures caused
by light. Her mother, Meghan Wilson, said she suffers on average
15 episodes a day, and a strain of pot that doesn’t make users
high may hold the best hope of blocking them.  Vivian’s Dad  While New Jersey allows medical-marijuana use, Meghan
Wilson and others say the law’s rules make it almost impossible
for children to be treated.  The issue heated up for Christie on Aug. 14 when he
appeared in Vivian’s hometown of Scotch Plains for a campaign
endorsement. Brian Wilson, her father, and about 150 other
people showed up, urging the governor to sign the bill. Wilson,
wearing a shirt that read “Vivian Wilson’s Dad,” said to
Christie, “Please don’t let my daughter die.”  Christie said the issue is complicated and that he would
“do what I think is best for the people of New Jersey -- all of
them.”  Former Governor Jon Corzine, a Democrat ousted by Christie
in the 2009 election, signed a medical-marijuana law during the
final days of his only term.  Christie, a former U.S. prosecutor, initially delayed the
program, saying he worried it might have run afoul of federal
law. He ended the suspension in July 2011 as he scaled back the
number of centers that can sell the drug and tightened
restrictions.  Nineteen States  Nineteen states allow medical-marijuana use, according to
the National Conference of State Legislatures. That doesn’t
include New York, which has had a medical-marijuana law for 30
years, though it shut down the program in the late 1980s.
Governor Andrew Cuomo, a 55-year-old Democrat, has said he’s
open to medical marijuana, though he doesn’t favor it.  Christie, who is seeking re-election in November, has said
that looser regulations in states such as California and
 Colorado  let “potheads” get the drug with ease. In Los Angeles
alone, there are more than 100 pot clinics. New Jersey allows
for just six statewide, while limiting how many strains they can
sell, the forms marijuana can take and its potency.  Meghan Wilson, 34, a consultant who runs clinical trials
for pharmaceutical companies, said she’s obtained approvals from
three doctors to apply for her daughter’s marijuana. The rules,
though, bar ingested forms of cannabis -- the type that may help
Vivian.  Christie said he would lift the three-strain cultivation
limit on authorized growers and make the treatment available to
children in edible form.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  