-- Cohen Said to Refuse SAC Client Push to Return Cash Early
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-08-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/cohen-said-to-refuse-sac-client-push-to-return-cash-early.html
Steven Cohen ’s $14 billion SAC
Capital Advisors LP, which last month was indicted by the
government as a “veritable magnet for market cheaters,” has
refused clients’ requests that the firm speed up payouts on the
billions of dollars earmarked for withdrawals, according to
three people familiar with the discussions.  SAC, which faces a midnight deadline for redemption
requests from investors who want to pull money from the firm,
has told clients that final payments will be made at the end of
the year. Some investors have pushed Cohen to give clients their
money back before then, fearing that the government could freeze
the funds’ assets, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because  Stamford , Connecticut-based SAC is private.
The government has said it doesn’t plan on restraining assets.  SAC started the year with $15 billion of assets, about $6
billion of which belonged to outsiders. As  insider-trading  probe
against the firm intensified, clients redeemed more than $3
billion in the first half of 2013, which is being returned over
the course of this year. SAC’s executives have said they expect
the firm to start 2014 with about $9 billion in assets and that
virtually all outside investors will be gone by then, according
to people familiar with the firm.  “People want to get out of the fund and be done with the
headline risk,” said Larry Chiarello, a partner at SkyView
Investment Advisors LLC in Shrewsbury,  New Jersey , which invests
in  hedge funds .  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC at Sard Verbinnen
& Co., declined to comment on the redemptions.  Criminal Charges  On July 25, prosecutors announced criminal charges against
SAC, saying it engaged in an unprecedented, decade-long insider-trading scheme. The government cited separate alleged insider-trading schemes by at least eight current and former fund
managers and analysts. Six days earlier, the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, in an administrative action, said Cohen
failed to supervise two employees who have been charged with
insider trading.  At least 11 former or current SAC employees have been
linked to insider-trading while at the firm, most of them
working on technology and health-care stocks.  Cohen, 57, has sought to assure employees that business
will continue as usual at the 21-year-old hedge-fund firm,
though with less money to manage, employees are expecting
layoffs.  ‘No Obligation’  “SAC is under no obligation to be more generous than the
terms it negotiated with investors,” said Ron Geffner, a
partner at Sadis & Goldberg in  New York . “For Cohen to return
assets would be inconsistent with his message that it’s business
as usual.”  Cohen mainly invests in a diverse selection of widely held
stocks, which are easy to sell. He doesn’t amass large or
concentrated positions. As of June 30, only four of SAC’s 1,549
U.S. stock holdings had a market value of more than $200
million: Micron Technology Inc., Zoetis Inc., Schlumberger Ltd.
and Amazon.com Inc., according to a filing with the SEC.  Clients who haven’t put in redemption notices in previous
quarters have until today to do so, according to the people. The
redeeming investors will get half their money back at the end of
the third quarter and the other half at the end of the year.  By keeping assets in the fund until the end of 2013, Cohen
will have more time to earn his fees of 3 percent of assets and
up to 50 percent of any investment gains.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  