-- Copper Premiums Near Record in China on Postponed Shipments
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-16T07:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/copper-premiums-near-record-in-china-on-postponed-shipments.html
Premiums for imported copper in
 China , the largest consumer, remained near an all-time high
after delayed shipments crimped local supplies, according to
research company CRU International Ltd.  “We’ve heard of a few delays and disruptions to several
major suppliers’ shipments to China, which have reduced the
availability of high-grade copper,” said Li Chunlan, a Beijing-based copper analyst at CRU.  The premium was at $185 per metric ton today, compared with
a record $210 a week ago, according to data provided by SMM
Information & Technology Co. Lower-than-expected local output
boosted the fees that fabricators paid in addition to  London 
Metal Exchange cash prices, Li said.  Refined copper output in China fell in July to the lowest
level in five months because of maintenance in some domestic
smelters and tight supplies of imported scrap metal, SMM
Information & Technology Co. said yesterday.  Long lines to withdraw metal from LME warehouses in
 Malaysia  and new Chinese regulations clamping down on the use of
copper to obtain credit have also boosted the premiums. Copper
futures climbed 7.4 percent this month on signs that the
economies of the U.S. and China are improving.  Copper for three-month delivery in London touched the
highest level since June 6 and was at $7,390 a ton at 3:22 p.m.
in Shanghai.  Premiums during July and August didn’t climb above $100 in
previous years, said Jiang Ning, a SMM copper analyst, citing
Chinese fabricators’ low operating rates during summer.  High premiums might fuel prices on the domestic physical
and futures markets and encourage importers to pay more for
shipments the next year, Jiang said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alfred Cang in  Shanghai  at 
 acang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  