-- Crude Caps Longest Streak of Gains Since April
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-08-16T18:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/crude-heads-for-weekly-gain-on-clashes-in-egypt.html
West Texas Intermediate crude capped
the longest streak of gains since April as clashes in Egypt
raised concern that  Middle East  supply will be cut.  Futures rose 13 cents. Thousands of people poured into the
streets in Egypt today to protest the killing of supporters of
ousted President Mohamed Mursi. Energy companies began
evacuating personnel from platforms in the  Gulf of Mexico  as a
storm threatened.  “We are seeing an escalation in Egypt and, obviously, that
adds premiums to the market,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market
strategist and founder of commodities trading firm Iitrader.com
in  Chicago . “We’ve got a potential storm developing in the Gulf
of Mexico. It pushes the market higher.”  WTI for September delivery settled at $107.46 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest level since Aug.
1. The volume of all futures traded was 1.5 percent below the
100-day average at 2:52 p.m. Futures advanced 1.4 percent this
week and are up 17 percent this year.  Brent for October settlement increased 80 cents, or 0.7
percent, to end the session at $110.40 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Volume was 6.2 percent below
the 100-day average. Brent’s premium to WTI was $3.11, based on
October contracts for both crudes. It was $3.78 yesterday using
September settlements.  Egyptian Demonstrations  Troops backed by tanks and helicopters surrounded Ramsis
Square, a focal point of rallies in central Cairo. The Muslim
Brotherhood, which called the protests, put the death toll at
60, while state-run Ahram Online said 27 people died, seven in
the capital. Security forces and demonstrators also clashed in
the provinces of Giza, Alexandria, Fayoum Ismailiya, Damietta,
Port Said and Gharbiya.  Egypt  controls the  Suez Canal  and the Suez-Mediterranean
Pipeline, through which a combined 4.51 million barrels a day of
crude and refined products were shipped between the Red Sea and
the Mediterranean in 2012, according to the  Energy Information
Administration , the statistical arm of the U.S. Energy
Department.  The Suez Canal is “secure and safe” and ship traffic
through the waterway is normal, the Suez Canal Authority said in
an e-mailed statement today. Fifty vessels carrying 2.8 million
tons of cargo passed through the canal today, it said.  Mideast Supplies  “There are fears that the unrest in Egypt will spread to
other countries and at some point disrupt oil supplies,” said
 Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research
in Winchester,  Massachusetts .  The Middle East accounted for 35 percent of global oil
output in the first quarter of this year, International Energy
Agency data show.  “There’s no telling how the situation in Egypt will play
out,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence
Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees $1.6 billion.
“The only thing that’s sure is that it isn’t pretty.”  BP Plc (BP/)  began removing non-essential personnel from four
offshore platforms in the Gulf as drilling rigs contracted by
the company halted operations. Production “remains online,”
according to a statement on its website.  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  said
it was clearing out some workers from its Ewing Bank facility in
the Gulf.  The Gulf is home to about 6 percent of U.S. natural gas
output, 23 percent of oil production and at least 45 percent of
petroleum-refining capacity, according to the EIA.  Storm Forecast  The track of the storm currently off the Yucatan Peninsula
is uncertain, the  National Hurricane Center  said in an advisory
at 2 p.m. New York time. It has a 50 percent chance of becoming
a tropical cyclone in two days, forecasters said.  “People don’t want to be short going into the weekend with
all those storm activities,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market
analyst at the Price Futures Group in Chicago.  Crude fell as much as 0.7 percent earlier as signs that the
economy is strengthening spurred speculation that the Fed may
trim $85 billion in monthly bond purchases at a September policy
meeting. The dollar climbed to a one-week high against the euro.  U.S. productivity increased more than projected in the
second quarter, the Labor Department said today. Employers fired
the fewest workers last week since before the recession began
almost six years ago, according to Labor Department data
yesterday.  Dollar Strengthens  “The dollar’s been strong because of the Fed tapering
concern,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market research
at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We’ve been up
for five straight sessions and what you are seeing here is some
profit taking on the back of a stronger dollar.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
October was 21.4 percent from 21.8 percent yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 539,768
contracts as of 2:52 p.m. It totaled 643,730 contracts
yesterday, 1 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.9 million contracts.  -- With assistance from Mark Shenk in  New York . Editors: Margot
Habiby, Dan Stets  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  