-- Dell Results Underscore Challenges Facing Turnaround Plan
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-08-16T20:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/dell-results-underscore-challenges-facing-turnaround-plan.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  reported results that
underscore the challenges facing the company amid a decline in
personal-computer sales, whatever the outcome of a vote next
month on Michael Dell’s $24.9 billion plan to go private.  Net income for the fiscal second quarter fell 72 percent to
$204 million, or 12 cents a share, from $732 million, or 42
cents, a year earlier, the  Round Rock , Texas-based company said
in a statement yesterday. Analysts on average predicted profit
of $275 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The plunge in earnings bolsters the case made by Chief
Executive Officer Dell and  Silver Lake  Management LLC that
shareholders should accept their proposal to restructure Dell as
a private company. Sales were helped by rising demand for
servers and networking gear, even as Dell and other PC makers
were stung by a slump in PC shipments, which have fallen for
five straight quarters.  “They did surpass very low expectations but the year-over-year comparisons aren’t promising,” said  Jayson Noland , an
analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. who rates the shares neutral,
the equivalent of a buy. “The PC market continues to trend
below expectations. It will play into Michael Dell’s plea to
take the company private.”  Dell shares rose less than 1 percent to $13.82 at the close
in  New York . That’s just above Dell and Silver Lake’s $13.75-a-share offer, indicating investors will probably back the buyout
after a special committee of Dell’s board accepted a sweetened
proposal this month.  Shareholder Vote  Revenue for the quarter ended Aug. 2 was little changed at
$14.5 billion, compared with analysts’ average projection for
$14.2 billion.  Dell and Silver Lake are offering a  dividend  of 13 cents a
share on top of an already-increased $13.75-a-share bid for the
computer maker to boost their odds of winning support. They also
said shareholders would receive an 8-cent-a-share third-quarter
dividend regardless of when the deal closes.  Investors holding the stock as of Aug. 13 will now be
eligible to vote on the buyout at a meeting scheduled for Sept.
12, and abstentions will no longer be counted as votes against
the deal, a key sticking point for Dell and Silver Lake before
the amended offer.  Special Dividend  Michael Dell  increased the special dividend to help win
support from the special committee, according to a regulatory
filing today. The CEO called Alex Mandl, the company’s lead
independent director, on July 31 to propose an amended bid with
a special dividend of 8 cents a share. The special committee
rejected that amount, prompting an increased offer of 13 cents.  Dell’s investor base has shifted to a makeup that could
also boost Michael Dell’s bid. Hedge-fund managers almost
tripled their holdings of Dell in the second quarter, to 18
percent as of June 30 from 6.5 percent as of March 31, while
traditional mutual-fund firms cut their stakes, according to
holder reports filed as of Aug. 14 with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  The deteriorating state of Dell’s main business may deflate
the case of billionaire activist shareholder  Carl Icahn , who is
arguing in Delaware court that he should be allowed to appoint
directors, in order to keep Dell public and profit from his
stake.  Icahn is asking a judge to bar Dell, the third-largest PC
maker, from setting a new shareholder record date; to stop
Michael Dell and his affiliates from voting any shares acquired
since Feb. 5, the day the deal was announced; to stop the
company from changing voting requirements; and to find that the
board breached its fiduciary duties.  Icahn Plan  Icahn held 156.5 million shares of Dell valued at more than
$2 billion as of Aug. 1, putting his stake of the company at 8.9
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Michael Dell
is the largest shareholder with 15.6 percent.  Southeastern Asset Management Inc., Icahn’s partner, said
the results underscored Dell’s strong performance in selling
hardware, software and services to enterprises and that the
buyout proposal “drastically undervalues the business and its
future prospects.”  Icahn and Southeastern will seek to elect a slate of 12
directors to Dell’s board if shareholders reject the CEO’s
buyout, the investors said in a statement today.  Second-quarter PC shipments dropped 10.9 percent to 76
million, according to market researcher Gartner Inc. Dell gets
more than half its sales from desktops, laptops and related
products, which are being replaced for many consumer and
business uses by tablet computers including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  PC Slump  “The certainty of Michael Dell and Silver Lake’s cash
offer is more compelling than the risk and reward of holding
equity and warrants with questionable value,”  Brian Marshall ,
an analyst at ISI Group, wrote in a note. “This quarter’s
results did little to change our view of Dell’s medium- or long-term prospects. The basic circumstances and choices remain
unchanged.”  Dell’s end-user computing revenue, which includes PCs and
“thin client” computers for back-office workers, declined 5
percent to $9.1 billion. Sales in the  enterprise solutions 
group, which includes servers, storage and networking products,
rose 8 percent to $3.3 billion.  Dell was originally scheduled to report earnings on Aug.
20, and moved its report up because of heightened interest in
the company, according to  David Frink , a spokesman for the
company. It issued no forecast for the third quarter, which ends
in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  