-- Detroit General-Obligation Bonds Seen Paying 100%
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-08-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/detroit-general-obligation-bonds-seen-paying-100-.html
Detroit’s $369 million of voter-approved general-obligation bonds provide a “strong case” to
be treated as secured debt in the city’s record bankruptcy,
returning 100 percent to investors, according to  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   Kevyn Orr, the Michigan city’s emergency manager, stunned
the $3.7 trillion municipal market when he lumped Detroit’s
unlimited general-obligation bonds with those that are defined
as “limited,” describing both as unsecured. While the former
are backed by taxes on voter-approved projects, the latter don’t
require such a referendum and are paid off out of general funds.  Yet holders of the “unlimited” debt may get as little as
3 percent of their face value, if the bankruptcy court rules the
debt is unsecured. Orr proposed paying pennies on the dollar on
some securities before he sought court protection for the city,
contributing to a $13.8 billion loss in muni values, according
to Standard & Poor’s. Tom Weyl, Barclays director of muni
research, suggests those bondholders may fare much better.  “Investors with appropriate risk appetite may wish to
consider standalone UTGO bonds,” Weyl said in an Aug. 7 report,
discussing the general-obligation securities involved in the
largest U.S. municipal bankruptcy. “Such debt will likely have
a strong argument for special revenue status in bankruptcy,
though there is no guarantee such argument will prevail.”  Postponed Deals  Since the record bankruptcy filing on July 18, three
Michigan municipalities have postponed bond deals after
investors demanded higher interest rates to compensate for the
new risk that Orr’s plan would set a precedent. J.R. Rieger,
S&P’s vice president for fixed-income indexes, said the filing
spurred a $13.8 billion muni-market loss through Aug. 7.  Yields on  30-year municipal bonds  reached about 4.64
percent yesterday, the highest since May 4, 2011, as prices for
the securities fell.  Detroit  unlimited-tax general-obligation bonds maturing in
April 2028 and backed by Assured Guaranty Ltd. traded at an
average of about 88 cents on the dollar yesterday to yield 6.2
percent, or 2.7 percentage points more than top-rated debt with
similar maturities, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  That’s 0.1 percentage point less than the average spread of
2.8 percentage point since Feb. 26, the data show.  Judge’s Decision  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes, the overseer of
Detroit’s case, will determine whether the unlimited tax general
obligation bonds are treated as secured or unsecured debt.  Under amendments made to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in 1988,
voter-authorized general-obligation debt for capital projects
backed by a specific tax levy that doesn’t feed the general fund
would be considered special-revenue debt, which is secured, Weyl
said. He cited research in a book by Chapman & Cutler LLP,
entitled “Municipalities in Distress.”  The description in an offering statement for the bonds
provides support for its status as secured debt, Weyl said.
Language in a document describing the 1999 unlimited-tax
general-obligation bonds says the projects to be financed were
voter-approved and subject to a specific debt-service tax.  A 2008 offering statement for a $204.9 million issue of
such bonds says Detroit is obligated to collect taxes to pay the
debt without regard to any “constitutional, statutory or
charter tax-rate limitations,” Weyl said.  Some Unsecured  Detroit’s 2012 annual report also identifies a separate
revenue stream to pay off its unlimited-tax bonds.  The city’s $161 million in limited-tax general-obligation
bonds weren’t voter-approved and are repaid from general
revenue, Weyl said. Those securities are unsecured, he said.  There is risk that the court sides with Detroit, Weyl said.
That may be trumped by the bankruptcy judge’s desire to move the
city quickly through a reorganization and limit appeals, he
said. A ruling against treating the unlimited bonds as secured
would probably be appealed, he said.  “If the judge is really concerned about, not the legal
merits, but what’s in the best interest of Detroit and trying to
craft a solution that works for them, tying up the city in
appeals is not in their best interest,” Weyl said.  Assured Guaranty (AGO) , which backs $146 million of the unlimited
tax debt, probably will fight over its secured status, he said.  Different Level  “We believe the city’s pledge of its unlimited taxing
power and resources is not, legally or morally, on the same
level of priority as unsecured obligations to vendors and other
creditors,” Dominic Frederico, Assured’s chief executive
officer, said during an Aug. 10 conference call with investors.  “The city’s voters approved the debt, and the bond
resolution unequivocally and irrevocably pledges the city’s full
faith and credit, unlimited taxing power, and the resources of
the city, for the timely payment of the principal and
interest,” Frederico said. He said the company-backed portion
calls for about $15.3 million in annual payments over the next
10 years.  In addition to the $530 million of unlimited and limited
general-obligation bonds Orr classified as unsecured, another
$479 million is secured by a pledge of state aid, Weyl said.  The  ratio  of 30-year top-rated muni yields to those for
comparable U.S. Treasuries is also near the highest in more than
a year. The ratio fell to 121 percent yesterday after reaching
125 percent Aug 9, the most since June 1, 2012. The greater the
percentage, the greater the relative value of municipal
securities.  Following is a pending sale:  Charlotte , North Carolina’s biggest city with about 797,000
residents, plans to sell about $103.3 million in federally
taxable general-obligation bonds next week. A smaller sale, of
about $34.4 million with similar maturities and tax treatment,
was priced Aug. 13 to yield about 4.15 percent on the longest-dated security, due in July 2029. Interest on the debt to be
sold next week, with top ratings from S&P and Moody’s Investors
Service, is exempt from state taxes. The sale will be managed by
a unit of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 