-- Deutsche Bank Sells Subordinated Notes Tied to Credit Agricole
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-08-16T08:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/deutsche-bank-sells-subordinated-notes-tied-to-credit-agricole.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is among banks
increasing sales of structured notes comprised of subordinated
financial bonds as investors take on more risk to boost returns.  Germany’s biggest lender sold $2.5 million of five-year
junior notes tied to the debt of  Credit Agricole  SA, its third
such offering this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Frankfurt-based bank offered the securities as
issuance of subordinated structured notes rose to $22.4 million
in July, the most for any month since January 2012.  Structured notes package derivatives with debt, typically
senior bank bonds, to offer customized bets to investors who are
also exposed to the credit risk of the issuer. By selecting a
bond lower down the capital structure, banks can create
securities with higher potential returns.  “By taking on more credit risk, investors can receive
coupons on subordinated bonds that can be noticeably higher than
on the senior unsecured bonds usually used in structured
products,” said Adrian Neave, the London-based managing
director at Gilliat Financial Solutions, a unit of  Arbuthnot
Banking Group Plc (ARBB)  that designs structured products.  Deutsche Bank raised $18 million from subordinated notes
this year, Bloomberg data show. Nick Bone, a spokesman for the
lender in  London , declined to comment on the bank’s notes. The
Portuguese unit of  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)  sold 15 million
euros ($20 million) of subordinated interest rate-linked notes
on July 30.  Credit Suisse  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  is also marketing a callable credit-linked note tied to the subordinated debt of Standard Chartered
Plc, according to an offer document for the security.  Gilliat is marketing its first structured notes based on
subordinated debt which it plans to issue next month. The bank
is using a subordinated bond issued by Commerzbank AG for its
enhanced income builder notes, which will allow it to offer
coupons that are about two percentage points higher than if they
were based on senior unsecured bonds, said Neave. The securities
pay a maximum annual coupon of 8 percent, while investors can
lose all of their investment, according to an offer document,  Issuers are struggling to create attractive terms on notes
as central banks in  Europe  and the U.S. hold interest rates near
zero, said Neave. When rates fall, the zero-coupon bonds used to
create notes become more expensive, leaving the bank with less
money to sweeten the terms by buying options.  The extra returns available from buying the notes of
riskier issuers has fallen as credit-default swaps insuring the
debt of European and U.S. banks remain at levels less than half
of last year’s highs, said Neave.  By going down the  capital structure  banks can create notes
with higher potential returns without sacrificing the
creditworthiness of the issuer, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  