-- Dole CEO Murdock Sued by Oklahoma Police Fund Over Buyout
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-08-16T21:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/dole-ceo-murdock-sued-by-oklahoma-police-fund-over-buyout.html
Dole Food Inc. (DOLE)  Chief Executive
Officer David Murdock was sued by an Oklahoma police pension
fund over his buyout that values the fresh fruit and vegetable
producer and marketer at about $1.21 billion.  The Oklahoma Police Pension and Retirement System argues
Murdock’s offer of about $13.50 a share in cash for the 60
percent of Dole that he or his family doesn’t already own
shortchanges shareholders, according to a complaint filed today
in Delaware Chancery Court. The fund, which owns about 90,000
shares, also sued other Dole executives claiming they weren’t
really independent in their assessment of the deal.  “Murdock began a low-ball bid -- a price less than the
average he paid in open-market purchase late last year -- and
then agreed to a higher price in ‘negotiations’ with a special
committee of the board purportedly composed of ‘independent and
disinterested directors,’” lawyers for the fund said in court
documents.  “If the transaction is approved, the public holders will
be frozen out in a grossly unfair transaction,” they said,
asking for the deal to be blocked.  Scott Griswold, a spokesman for Westlake Village,
California-based Dole, didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment on the lawsuit.  Murdock, who served as CEO between 1985 and 2007, returned
to the role in February. He took the company private once before
in 2003 and then sold 60 percent to the public in 2009. The fund
said Murdock has run Dole as his own “private fiefdom.”  Other shareholders sued the company in June, also alleging
the board was violating its legal duty to get the best price by
accepting Murdock’s bid, then at $12 a share.  The company was founded 162 years ago and operates in more
than 90 countries, producing bananas, pineapples and lettuce in
Latin America and southeast Asia, according to its website.  The case is Oklahoma Police Pension and Retirement System
v. Dole Food Co., CA8814, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  