-- Dreamliner Fire Spurs Orders to Check Jetliner Beacons
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   J e n n i f e r   S u r a n e
-- 2013-08-16T21:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/dreamliner-fire-spurs-orders-to-check-jetliner-beacons.html
Airlines are being told by
regulators in the U.S.,  Canada , Japan and Europe to check most
 Boeing Co. (BA)  and Airbus SAS jets for wiring faults in emergency
beacons amid the probe into a July 12 fire on a 787 Dreamliner.  The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration joined the
European Aviation Safety Agency and Japan’s transport ministry
today in following Canadian regulators in mandating inspections
on the  Honeywell International Inc (HON) .-made emergency locator
transmitters.  Boeing had requested last month that its customers look for
a possible wiring fault on an emergency locator transmitter,
which regulators signaled may have sparked the July fire on a
parked 787 in  London . The planemaker today also asked airlines
to inspect wiring on a 787 engine fire-suppression system after
a Japanese carrier discovered defects on three of the aircraft.  The Chicago-based aircraft manufacturer is “taking the
active approach to solving the problem because they believe in
the airplane, and the customers like the feedback they’re
getting from their passengers” about the 787, said  Howard Rubel , a Jefferies LLC analyst in New York.  The company is showing its commitment to the success of the
787, the first composite-plastic commercial jet, said Rubel, who
rates Boeing  shares  buy. The Dreamliner has garnered 931 orders
by offering lower fuel consumption and more passenger comfort.  U.K. officials linked the emergency transmitter to the July
blaze, and investigators are trying to learn whether two
smashed-together wires may have caused a short circuit, a person
familiar with the probe said last month.  Canadian Directive  The Canadian directive covers more than 3,000 aircraft
worldwide including 11 Boeing-made models and seven from Airbus.
The checks also were mandated for  Dassault Aviation SA (AM) ’s Falcon
7X business jet and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s L-382, a civilian
model of the Hercules transport.  The beacon-inspection order on a wide number of planes
beyond the Dreamliner reduces the likelihood that the
investigation will find that the fire stemmed from a Dreamliner-specific problem, Rubel said. After the FAA grounded the 787 for
three months following the overheating of lithium-ion batteries
on two jets in January, even small defects on the planes are
reported widely, he said.  “This plane is such high profile that it gets more
attention than maybe it should,” Rubel said. He called the
wiring issue on the fire-suppression system “a little thing.”  Wrong Extinguisher  Boeing asked airlines to inspect fire-extinguishing bottles
on the 73 Dreamliners in service after Tokyo-based ANA Holdings
Inc. discovered a defect that would trigger the wrong
extinguisher if a fire were to occur in one of two engines.  The defect occurred at a facility operated by supplier
Kidde, a  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  unit, and the inspection will
take a few minutes, said Rob Henderson, a Boeing spokesman. It
isn’t an immediate flight-safety issue, the planemaker said.  An assembly error at a United Technologies facility caused
the fault in some refurbished fire extinguisher bottles, Dan
Coulom, a spokesman, said today in an e-mail. The issue has been
corrected and United Technologies is collaborating with Boeing
and airlines to complete the inspections, he said.  After Boeing requested checks on the emergency beacons, ANA
and  United Airlines (UAL)  found damaged wires in the transmitters on
some Dreamliners. Boeing supports regulators making the
inspections mandatory, Doug Alder, a company spokesman, said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Japan’s Order  The Japanese directive to inspect Honeywell beacons covers
82 Boeing and Airbus planes, including 787s operated by  Japan 
Airlines Co. and ANA, according to a statement on its transport
ministry’s website. The European agency also adopted Transport
Canada’s order, extending the inspection mandate to all that
region’s carriers.  The FAA said in an e-mailed statement that it intends to
issue a directive requiring the same actions as Canada’s order.
Other nations typically follow mandates such as the directive
issued yesterday by the Canadian regulator.  Canada’s order is a prudent step to ensure safety while the
investigation continues into the cause of the July fire, said
 Thomas Anthony , director of the University of Southern
California’s Aviation Safety and Security Program. “If there’s
a question as to whether or not a hazard exists then they
generally will act in favor of a greater degree of safety.”  Honeywell’s View  Honeywell supports the Canadian order and continues to
cooperate with the agencies investigating the July 12 fire on an
Ethiopian Airlines Enterprise plane, said Steve Brecken, a
spokesman for the Morris Township, New Jersey-based company.  The 787 fire linked to the emergency beacons, which are
powered by  lithium batteries , renewed safety concerns regarding
the Dreamliner’s electrical system. The plane was grounded for
three months after the two January incidents with lithium-ion
batteries. Boeing devised a fix that included more insulation
around power cells and a metal enclosure.  As part of the investigation of the emergency transmitter,
Canadian regulators inspected a Honeywell facility at
Mississauga, Ontario, and an Instrumar Ltd. plant in St. John’s,
Newfoundland. Instrumar is a subcontractor that manufactures the
emergency locator transmitter from Honeywell’s design.  After the 787 fire, Honeywell revised the maintenance
instructions for the beacon to instruct crews to ensure the
wires were tucked into the unit, Brecken said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Black in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Surane in New York at 
 jsurane1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  