-- Drought-Induced Curb on Lake Powell Water Is First-Ever
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2013-08-16T18:50:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/drought-induced-curb-on-lake-powell-water-is-first-ever.html
The U.S. Bureau of Reclamation,
which manages water in 17 Western states, announced its first-ever water-release reduction from Lake Powell to Lake Mead,
citing the worst 14-year drought period in 100 years.  The 9.1 percent cutback by the largest wholesale water-supplier in the U.S. amounts to that used by 1.5 million homes.
It’s the lowest water release since Lake Powell, a reservoir on
the Colorado River near the Utah-Arizona border, was filled in
the 1960s, the agency said today in a  statement .  Lake Mead,  Las Vegas ’s main water source, is projected to
decline an additional eight feet in 2014 as a result of the
lower Lake Powell annual release, the bureau said from  Salt Lake
City . Even so, Lake Mead will operate under normal conditions in
2014, said the bureau, which constructed the Hoover Dam and
brings water to about 31 million people a year.  Water releases are to be 7.48 million acre-feet for the
year ending September 2014, down from usual releases of 8.23
million feet, and were curbed in response to  extreme drought
conditions  in the region, the bureau said. An acre-foot is the
volume needed to cover an acre of land one-foot deep with water.  “With a good winter snowpack next year, the outlook could
change significantly as it did in 2011 but we also need to be
prepared for continuing drought,” Terry Fulp, Reclamation’s
Lower Colorado regional director, said in the statement.  The cutback is 750,000 feet below  a 2007 agreement between
lower- and upper-basin states  drawing from the Colorado River.
That agreement doesn’t include  Mexico , which is guaranteed under
a different 1944 agreement, according to an Aug. 14 article by
the Traverse City, Michigan-based group  circleofblue.org .  Reclamation’s current long-term hydrologic models show a
“very small chance” of lower-basin delivery shortages in 2015
with the first significant chance of reduced water deliveries in
the lower basin in 2016. Projections are updated monthly.  The Colorado River that ends in a trickle in the Sea of
Cortez is the most endangered river in the U.S., stressed by the
water needs of residents and irrigated acreage along its length,
according to the environmental group American Rivers.  Lake Mead is on the Nevada-Arizona state line.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joanna Ossinger at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net  