-- The NSA’s Alarming Misbehavior
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-16T20:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/the-nsa-s-alarming-misbehavior.html
The National Security Agency,
accustomed to operating in the shadows, has had a rough few
months as details of its secret intelligence-gathering
operations have been leaked. The Washington Post  reported  today
that the agency has violated its privacy rules and exceeded its
authority thousands of times a year since 2008.  Intelligence professionals -- especially those with a
mission as important as the NSA’s -- deserve the benefit of the
doubt on many issues. But the alarming behavior the recent leaks
have revealed shows that the NSA requires strong supervision,
and it’s clear that the current system of oversight is failing.  By law, the NSA is prohibited from snooping on American
citizens. Yet its modus operandi -- sweeping up colossal amounts
of information on phone calls, e-mails and other electronic
communications ostensibly from foreign intelligence targets --
lends itself to doing so inadvertently. The Post revealed an
internal NSA audit showing that agents improperly collected and
stored troves of data on Americans, retained information they
were required to destroy, and failed to report incidents of
inappropriate collection. One document appears to  instruct
analysts  in the fine art of stonewalling government overseers.  Under two presidents, the NSA has been found to be
 exceeding  its legal authority, systematically “ overcollecting ”
data and failing to exercise adequate oversight. Its leadership
has obfuscated, misled the public and issued statements that now
look like something very close to  outright lies .  President  Barack Obama , in a  news conference  that sounds a
lot worse today than it did last week, asserted that one of the
NSA’s programs “is an important tool in our effort to disrupt
terrorist plots.” But he offered no evidence, so as with most
things involving the NSA, no one has any idea if it’s true. That
makes judging the costs and benefits of such programs extremely
difficult -- the benefits are entirely secret, but the costs
keep piling up in public.  As the president noted, widespread surveillance risks
diminishing American moral authority abroad. It’s eroding the
traditions of privacy and liberty Americans have long demanded,
not to mention treading a very fine constitutional line. And
it’s sure to have ugly economic consequences: The  technology
companies  that have acquiesced in the NSA’s snooping shouldn’t
be surprised if they’re subjected to far more stringent privacy
regulations in other countries or if their products become
substantially less popular in a global marketplace.  The president announced last week a number of measures
intended to mollify the public. There will be a full-time
privacy officer at the NSA, he said. A panel of outside experts
will review intelligence collection. There will even be a lively
new website “that will serve as a hub for further
transparency.”  Increasingly, all this looks like a fool’s game. The system
of supervision simply isn’t working. As the Post report notes,
the NSA’s oversight staff has quadrupled in recent years, yet
the rate of infractions keeps increasing. Even the chief judge
of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court -- the secret
body putatively in charge of making sure the NSA follows the law
-- has  admitted  that the court can’t verify what the agency says
and thus can’t provide full oversight over it.  There’s one branch of the government that can, and that’s
Congress. Congressional inquiries are not always the most high-minded affairs. But we’ve reached the point where an expansive,
intrusive and transparent investigation --  modeled on that of
the Church Committee  in the 1970s -- may be the best way to
fully protect Americans’ security and privacy. If NSA officials
find themselves under uncomfortably public and revealing
scrutiny, they’ll have no one to blame but themselves.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 