-- Egypt Islamists Call for Week of Rallies Amid Deaths Rise
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   Z a i d   S a b a h
-- 2013-08-17T03:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/egypt-islamists-call-for-week-of-daily-rallies.html
Islamists in  Egypt  called for a week
of rallies to denounce the government’s deadly crackdown on
protesters seeking the reinstatement of President Mohamed Mursi.  “The coalition reiterates its demand of reinstating
legitimacy,” the National Coalition for Legitimacy, an Islamist
group made up of the Muslim Brotherhood and its supporters, said
in a statement. “Bloodshed will water the tree of freedom.”  Thousands of Egyptians poured into the streets of Cairo
yesterday after Friday prayers, crossing bridges and passing
troops backed by tanks and helicopters, until they reached
Ramsis Square, the focal point of protests. At least 27 people
died in the ensuing violence, state-run Ahram Online said, while
the Brotherhood put the toll at about 100. Dozens more died in
clashes outside the capital in the provinces of Giza,
Alexandria, Fayoum Ismailiya, Damietta, Port Said and Gharbiya.  The Aug. 14 storming by police of two pro-Mursi protest
camps in squares in Cairo and Giza, and conflicts that erupted
across Egypt afterward, left at least 578 people dead and
deepened fault lines between Islamists and their rivals. Before
the crackdown, about 200 people had been killed in clashes
between protesters and security forces since Mursi’s July 3
ouster.  The army, which ousted and detained Mursi last month,
assumed responsibility for order as a state of emergency and
curfews were declared after the raids. The government authorized
security forces to use live ammunition to repel attacks on
personnel or government buildings, and says it won’t allow any
more sit-ins.  Sustaining Protests  “Every sign we’ve gotten from the military is that they
don’t intend to settle, they intend to win,” Jon Alterman,
director of the Middle East Program at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies in Washington, said in an interview.
“If there’s a single organization in Egypt that can sustain
protests for months if not years in the face of organized
repression, it’s the Brotherhood, so Egypt as a calm and
predictable environment will be some ways off.”  The assault on Aug. 14 turned into the bloodiest day in
Egypt’s recent history and drew international condemnation, with
France and  Germany  calling for a meeting of European Union
foreign ministers to look for ways to respond to the crisis. The
United Nations Security Council called for restraint.  In neighborhoods across Cairo yesterday, civilians set up
makeshift roadblocks using rocks, sandbags and chairs. Watch
groups closed off streets and checked identification papers and
driver’s licenses before letting people pass, and carried sticks
and sharpened knives to protect their areas.  Anyone who breaks the 7 p.m-to-6 a.m. curfew will be dealt
with “decisively,” the army said.  Mosque Siege  In Ramsis Square, a fire at state-owned construction
company Arab Contractors burned for hours. Demonstrators hurled
Molotov cocktails at the building, sparking the blaze, and
Brotherhood members prevented emergency vehicles from
approaching the scene until about 10:30 p.m. local time, state
TV said.  Egyptian security forces besieged the al-Fath mosque in
Ramsis Square, with Muslim Brotherhood supporters stuck inside
into this morning, Al Jazeera television reported, citing a
reporter at the scene. About 5,000 people were trapped, Shaima
Awad, a woman at the mosque, told the Doha-based broadcaster in
a telephone interview. Live footage on Al Jazeera showed
security forces using tear gas.  Dozens of churches were burned down or came under attack.
Islamists have blamed Egypt’s Christian minority for supporting
Mursi’s overthrow. The Brotherhood denied it was responsible and
has said its protests would be peaceful.  At least 16 people were killed and 140 injured in clashes
in Egypt’s second city of Alexandria yesterday.  ‘Fighting Terrorism’  Text running along the bottom of state TV broadcasts read
“Egypt is fighting terrorism” and “Egypt is against
terrorism.” Authorities arrested 263 in Cairo events yesterday,
the state-run Middle East News Agency reported.  The Egyptian armed forces captured 439 “terrorists” and
lawbreakers across the country, Ahmed Ali, a military spokesman,
said on his Facebook Inc. page.  The United Arab Emirates, Jordan, Saudi Arabia and Libya
said they backed Egyptian authorities in that fight against
“terrorism.” Kuwait said it supports the efforts of
authorities to restore calm and stability, while calling for
restraint.  Egypt’s benchmark Eurobonds slumped for a third day
yesterday, pushing the yield up 16 basis points to 9.17 percent.  Obama’s Action  President  Barack Obama  said on Aug. 15 that he has called
off a joint U.S. military exercise with Egypt scheduled to begin
next month, and warned that Egypt’s military-backed government
has embarked on a “dangerous path.” He stopped short of
cutting off the $1.3 billion in aid that the U.S. provides to
the Egyptian army, its decades-old ally.  Members of the alliance that backed the army’s removal of
Mursi started to condemn the crackdown. Yesterday, Khaled
Dawoud, the spokesman for the National Salvation Front, a bloc
of groups that galvanized support for protests leading to
Mursi’s ouster, quit. Mohamed ElBaradei, the Nobel laureate,
resigned as vice president Aug. 14, saying he didn’t want to
bear responsibility for “bloodshed that could have been
avoided.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Zaid Sabah Abd Alhamid in  Washington  at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jim Silver at 
 jsilver@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  