-- Egypt Bonds Post Worst 3-Day Drop in 14 Months on Clashes
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-08-16T22:54:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/egypt-bonds-set-for-worst-3-day-drop-in-14-months-after-killings.html
Egypt ’s benchmark bonds posted the
steepest three-day drop in 14 months as Muslim Brotherhood
supporters took to the streets to protest the deadly government
crackdown that left hundreds dead, sparking renewed clashes.  The 5.75 percent dollar-denominated debt maturing April
2020 fell 4.3 percent in the past three days, as per data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the most since the period ended
June 22, 2012, the final trading day before Mohamed Mursi, who
was ousted by the army last month, was declared Egypt’s first
democratically elected president. The London-traded shares of
 Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE (CBKD)  fell to a one-month low.  Egypt’s default risk rose to a five-week high as thousands
of Egyptians poured into the streets of Cairo after Friday
prayers, and at least 27 people died in ensuing violence. The
bloodiest day in Egypt’s recent history and its aftermath, which
left at least 600 dead according to official figures, triggered
the closing of the nation’s stock exchange and banks Aug. 15.  “Egypt has shown that events can unfold quickly and
unpredictably,”  William Jackson , a London-based emerging-markets economist at  Capital Economics  Ltd., said by phone
yesterday. “The heightened political uncertainty may cause
renewed capital flight, which would put further pressure on the
pound and force the central bank to burn through its foreign-exchange reserves to support the  exchange rate .”  Saudi Support  The Egyptian pound depreciated 9 percent this year as the
central bank eased support for the currency to conserve foreign
reserves, which have slumped by almost half since the 2011
revolt that ousted former President  Hosni Mubarak . The currency
strengthened 0.6 percent since July 3, the day the army
overthrew Mursi, to 6.9889 a dollar on Aug. 14.  Saudi Arabia ’s King Abdullah said in a statement to Al
Arabiya television yesterday that anyone who “interferes” in
Egypt’s internal affairs risks “instigating strife.” Persian
Gulf countries including the kingdom pledged $12 billion of aid
to the army-backed government, helping boost  reserves  by almost
$4 billion in July to $18.9 billion.  Global depositary receipts of Commercial International
Bank, Egypt’s biggest publicly traded lender, dropped 2.9
percent to $4.66, the lowest since July 18. The GDRs tumbled 11
percent in the past five days, the steepest weekly drop since
June 14.  Orascom Telecom Holding (OTLD) ’s London-traded shares lost 3.3
percent to $2.95, the lowest close in two weeks.  Gulf Money  “ King Abdullah ’s unequivocal support for the army coup
means that the Gulf money spigot will continue to flow and the
Egyptian pound will remain stable,” Emad Mostaque, a London-based strategist at Noah Capital Markets, said by e-mail
yesterday. “Thus, significant, sustained widening in bonds is
unlikely, with most of the pain being in the stock market.”  Aug. 15 was the first time the bourse faced an unscheduled
shutdown since the January 2011 revolt, when trading was
suspended for almost two months. The market will reopen Aug. 18,
according to the exchange.  The yield on the 2020 bonds rose 16 basis points to 9.18
percent in Cairo, capping an 85 basis-point increase since Aug.
14. Credit default swaps, contracts insuring the nation’s debt,
have jumped 59 basis points in the past three days to 809, the
highest on a closing basis since July 9, CMA data show  Egypt has struggled to pull the economy out of the worst
slump in two decades as talks with the  International Monetary
Fund  for a $4.8 billion loan halted.  The army, which has assumed responsibility for maintaining
order after a state of emergency and curfews were declared, was
deployed in force in central Cairo yesterday as tear gas was
fired at crowds. The government authorized security forces on
Aug. 15 to use live ammunition to repel attacks on personnel or
government buildings after attacks on state offices.  “Uncertainty may lead to even less investment over the
next few years,” Capital Economics’ Jackson said. “It’s
impossible to say how long this will go on for.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in London at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  