-- Telekom Austria Said to Vie With Funds for Serbia Broadband
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r   a n d   K i e l   P o r t e r
-- 2013-08-16T13:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/telekom-austria-said-to-vie-with-funds-for-serbia-broadband-1-.html
Telekom Austria  AG is vying with
private-equity firms to buy cable operator  Serbia  Broadband for
as much as 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion), according to people
with direct knowledge of the matter.  Telekom  Austria , part-owned by the Austrian state and
Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB, got back in
the race after dropping off a shortlist of companies looking at
SBB’s books, two people familiar with its plans said.  Other bidders for Belgrade-based SBB include private equity
groups Providence Equity Partners Inc and Cinven Advisers LLP,
as well as Altice Finco SA, six people said. All asked to not be
identified because the talks are private.  Telekom Austria, which plans to bolster its mobile-operator
network in eastern  Europe  with fixed-line assets, signed a fiber
deal this week with Dutch carrier Royal KPN NV, the other
European operator  America Movil (AMXL)  has a stake in. Five days
earlier, the Vienna-based company had its biggest single-day
gain in four years after America Movil offered 7.2 billion euros
for the 70 percent of KPN it doesn’t own.  Serbia Broadband, which also has a unit operating in
Slovenia, is owned by London-based private-equity firm Mid
Europa Partners LLP. The cable operator could be sold for as
much as 10 times its estimated earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, one of the people said.  Capital Raising  Telekom Austria would have to sell new shares to fund the
purchase, the people familiar with the former monopoly’s
thinking said. The carrier may sell as much as 1 billion euros
of new shares to fund growth, weekly Format reported today
without saying where it got the information.  Telekom Austria dropped as much as 3.4 percent in Vienna
and traded at 5.6 euros, down 2.6 percent, at 2:35 p.m.  Spokesmen for Telekom Austria, Providence, Cinven and
Altice declined to comment on the deal. SBB and Mid Europa
didn’t return calls and e-mails asking for a comment.  The Austrian state owns about 28 percent of Telekom Austria
through Oesterreichische Industrieholding AG.  America Movil 
holds almost 24 percent in the carrier, according to its July 25
filing. Slim has additional  3.14 percent  through his
Inmobiliaria Carso SA holding company.  Telekom Austria’s fiber deal with KPN was “obvious” given
America Movil’s stake in both, Alexander Kleedorfer, a spokesman
for the Austrian carrier, said at the time.  State Participation  Oesterreichische Industrieholding, the state-asset holding
company, would have to take part in a possible share issue to
keep at least a 25 percent stake, according to Austrian law. It
can participate in an issue without a new government approval.  Austria will hold national elections on Sept. 29.  Telekom Austria owns mobile operators in Serbia,  Bulgaria ,
 Croatia  and Slovenia. It’s looking to add fixed-line assets in
the region and could “advance to become the biggest player in
southeastern Europe,” Chief Executive Officer Hannes Ametsreiter said in an interview with WirtschaftsBlatt newspaper
last month.  Telekom Austria’s Serbian asset competes with Norway’s
 Telenor ASA (TEL)  and state-owned Telekom Srbija DD.  The due-diligence process, in which bidders analyze SBB’s
accounts and file new bids, may take until the end of September,
one of the people said.  Altice, which owns cable operators in countries including
Israel, Belgium and  Switzerland , plans to submit its bid in
October, one person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net ;
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  