-- Emerging Stocks Fall as India’s Sensex Leads World Losses
-- B y   J e s s i c a   S u m m e r s   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-08-16T22:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/emerging-market-stocks-fall-amid-fed-concerns-as-rupee-tumbles.html
Emerging stocks fell, trimming a
weekly advance, as Indian shares plunged the most among global
indexes and a trading error roiled Chinese markets.  Brazil ’s
real posted the biggest decline in almost 15 months.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slid 0.3 percent to 958.11.
 India ’s S&P BSE Sensex Index dropped the most among 94 world
gauges as the rupee slid to a record. The Shanghai Composite
Index posted the biggest swings since 2009. The real capped the
worst performance among all currencies tracked by Bloomberg as
Finance Minister Guido Mantega said the slump was good for the
local industry. Egypt’s bonds capped the steepest three-day drop
in 14 months after a deadly government crackdown.  A trading error at Everbright Securities Co. drove Chinese
shares to the biggest swings since the global financial crisis,
threatening to erode confidence in the second-worst performing
stock market after  Greece  during the past four years. Indian
stocks plunged amid concern that government efforts to stem the
rupee’s slide to a record low will curb economic growth.  “These events like you’re seeing aren’t doing anything to
instill any kind of confidence towards why they feel the need to
go into emerging market equities,” Mark Luschini, the chief
investment strategist of Janney Montgomery Scott, which oversees
about $58 billion of assets. “You don’t need to be a hero by
delving into markets that aren’t behaving well,’  The slide in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index was led by
financial and utility companies and trimmed a weekly gain to 0.7
percent. The  broad measure  dropped 9.2 percent this year,
compared with a 13 percent surge in the MSCI World Index. The
 gauge  of developing nations is trading at 10.1 times estimated
earnings, below the valuation of developed markets of 13.7.  Emerging ETF  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund slid 0.9 percent at $39.30. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
rose 2.3 percent to 23.62.  India’s S&P BSE Sensex Index dropped 4 percent in Mumbai as
 State Bank of India (SBIN)  tumbled to the lowest level in four years.
ICICI Bank Ltd. slumped 5.2 percent. The rupee touched an
unprecedented 62.0050 per dollar today before closing 0.3
percent weaker from Aug. 14 at 61.6550 in Mumbai, according to
prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg.  The Shanghai gauge jumped from a loss of as much as 1
percent to a gain of 5.6 percent in two minutes during the
morning session as 16 of the measure’s 20 biggest companies by
weighting rose by the 10 percent daily limit. The index fell 0.6
percent at the close. About 15.3 billion shares of Shanghai
Composite companies changed hands, versus the 30-day average of
10 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Brazil’s Real  Brazil’s real dropped 2.2 percent, the most in 15 months.
The Ibovespa posted a second weekly gain as pulp producer Fibria
Celulose SA led commodity producers higher amid bets that a
pickup in global growth will boost Brazil’s exports.  Egypt ’s 5.75 percent dollar-denominated notes maturing
April 2020 fell 4.3 percent in the past three days, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the most since the period
ended June 22, 2012, the final trading day before Mohamed Mursi,
who was ousted by the military last month, was declared Egypt’s
first democratically elected president.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  lost 0.8 percent in Moscow as state-run
power company OAO RusHydro fell 1.8 percent after sliding 3.6
percent yesterday. Benchmark gauges in the Czech Repubic,
Hungary and  Turkey  added at least 0.4 percent, while stocks in
 Poland  retreated.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries slid 0.05 percentage point to 319 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jessica Summers in  New York  at 
 jsummers17@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  