-- Tepco Bond Risk Rises as It Seeks to Avoid Third Straight Loss
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2013-08-16T03:53:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/tepco-bond-risk-rises-as-it-seeks-to-avoid-third-straight-loss.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s bond risk
jumped following a Yomiuri newspaper report that said the
operator of the wrecked Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant will
have to rely on rate increases to become profitable if its
atomic reactors remain shut.  The cost to insure the debt of the utility against default
rose 22.4 basis points in the three days to Aug. 15 to 273.7,
the biggest back-to-back increase since June 21, according to
data provider CMA. The Markit iTraxx Japan index of default
swaps for 50 companies declined 1.8 basis points in the period.  Tepco, as the company is known, faces opposition from
Niigata Prefecture Governor Hirohiko Izumida to resume
operations at its Kashiwazaki-Kariwa nuclear station in northern
 Japan , hampering efforts to prevent a third straight year of
losses.  The business plan outlined last year by Tepco, which has 29
million customers in metropolitan Tokyo, said restarting
Kashiwazaki-Kariwa would result in net income of about 107
billion yen ($1.1 billion) in the year to March 2014. The
company also aims to return to the corporate bond market after
the middle of the decade, the plan stated.  Tepco faces a deadline to refinance 80 billion yen in debt
in October and plans to seek 300 billion yen in new loan
commitments in December, President Naomi Hirose told reporters
last month after the release of first-quarter results.  Regional Opposition  The Tokyo-based company, Japan’s biggest utility, has no
realistic way at the moment to become profitable in 2014 and no
prospect of returning to the corporate  bond market  in 2016,
analyst Mana Nakazora said.  “The governor’s opposition has created a big problem for
Tepco,” Nakazora, the Tokyo-based chief credit analyst at BNP
Paribas SA, said yesterday in a phone interview. “The company’s
business plan will need to be revised, but it has yet to be
clear when it will come.”  Most of Japan’s 50 nuclear reactors remain shut for safety
checks after the country’s earthquake and tsunami in March 2011
caused the meltdown at Fukushima.  Tepco would need to raise power prices by 8.5 percent in
January should Kashiwazaki-Kariwa stay offline, the Yomiuri
newspaper reported on Aug. 13.  The possible rate increase is one of several scenarios the
utility has presented to banks, spokesman Yusuke Kunikage said
yesterday by phone, adding that it’s too early to say whether
higher rates will be needed.  Japan’s regulator this week approved safety plans for
decommissioning the Fukushima nuclear plant, a move that also
gives the watchdog authority to step in and direct the operation
if procedures are not followed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in  Tokyo  at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  