-- Merck Halts Animal-Drug Sale After Cattle Walking Problem
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-08-16T20:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/merck-halts-animal-drug-sale-after-cattle-walking-problem.html
Merck & Co. (MRK)  will suspend sales of
its livestock-feed supplement  Zilmax  in the U.S. and  Canada 
after cattle taking it had trouble walking or standing.  The sales halt is temporary while the company plans a study
of the drug,  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based Merck said
today in a statement. The drugmaker, which sells veterinary and
farm products in more than 140 countries, generated $3.4 billion
last year from its animal health business.  Merck is taking the action after  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the
Springdale, Arkansas-based beef, poultry and pork producer, said
on Aug. 8 that it was halting its use of Zilmax because of lame
livestock found at its factories.  “This important step demonstrates our commitment to
providing our industry partners with data that will reaffirm
confidence in Zilmax,” said KJ Varma, senior vice president for
global R&D of the animal-health unit. “We sincerely regret that
this situation creates business challenges for our customers,
but it is critical to ensure that this process is conducted
appropriately and with rigorous scientific measures.”  Zilmax generated $159 million in 2012, according to Merck.
The drug is given to the animals as a chemical supplement for a
20-day period to help them boost the amount of muscle weight
they gain, and then stopped three days before slaughter. It’s in
a class of drugs called beta agonists, which also includes  Eli
Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s  Optaflexx , sold by its Elanco unit.  Regulatory Review  Merck notified U.S. regulators about its decision to
suspend sales of Zilmax, Pamela Eisele, a company spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail.  The  Food and Drug Administration  has received “a very
small number of reports of lameness or lying down in cattle
treated with zilpaterol,” Shelly Burgess, an agency
spokeswoman,  said in an e-mail, using the chemical name for
Zilmax. “FDA will review any new information to determine if
there is a safety issue and, if so, will notify the drug
sponsors and the public.”  Merck  shares  fell less than 1 percent to $47.70 at 4 p.m.
New York time. The company gained 17 percent this year.  Eli Lilly  hasn’t been contacted by the FDA, or had reports
of any increase in cattle lameness, Colleen Parr Dekker, a
spokeswoman for Lilly’s animal health unit, said in a telephone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  