-- EU Watchdog Probes Privacy Breaches After Snowden’s Disclosures
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-08-16T11:17:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/eu-watchdog-probes-privacy-breaches-after-snowden-s-disclosures.html
European Union privacy regulators
are probing possible violations of the bloc’s data protection
rules through the “large-scale” surveillance of people’s data
by U.S. spy programs such as Prism.  Recent disclosures on how U.S. intelligence agencies
collect data of foreign nationals “are of great concern,”
Jacob Kohnstamm, head of the group of 28 EU privacy watchdogs,
said in  a letter  to the bloc’s Justice Commissioner  Viviane Reding .  The group “considers it is its duty to also assess
independently to what extent the protection provided by EU data
protection legislation is at risk and possibly breached.”  Former U.S. National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden, who faces U.S. espionage charges, revealed in June that
the government secretly collected telephone records of millions
of U.S. customers of  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  under a
classified court order. Prism, another program, collects
Internet data from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , based in Cupertino,  California ,
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , based in  Mountain View , California, and other
companies.  “Even though some clarifications have been given by the
United States’ authorities, many questions as to the
consequences of these intelligence programs remain,” Kohnstamm,
chairman of the  Article 29 Data Protection Working Party , said
in the letter, dated Aug. 13 and published today. The group
identified a list of “issues of concern and questions that need
to be answered as soon as possible.”  ‘Strong Support’  Reding said in June that U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder
provided  “assurances”  about the Prism surveillance program
amid concerns over its impact on EU citizens. The EU’s questions
about the once-secret program “have been answered very clearly
by Eric Holder,” she said at the time.  Mina Andreeva, a spokeswoman for Reding, said the
commissioner welcomes “the strong support” from the Article 29
Working Party.  The European Commission “calls on the national data
protection” authorities in the EU group to ensure that the
governments in each country support data protection regulation
“that is also effectively enforceable in PRISM-type
situations,” Andreeva said.  The privacy regulators want information on what data the
U.S. is collecting, Kohnstamm said.  “Allegedly the collection of personal data takes place
both on a very large scale as well as on a structural and/or
systematic basis, allowing the NSA, FBI, CIA and/or other
intelligence and law enforcement agencies continuous access,”
Kohnstamm said, referring to the U.S.  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation and the Central Intelligence Agency.  The EU group “has doubts whether the seemingly large-scale
and structural surveillance of personal data that has now
emerged can still be considered an exception strictly limited to
the extent necessary,” said Kohnstamm.  He said that apart from investigating the intelligence
programs used by the U.S., the EU group will also assess any
effects of the Prism program and the information derived from it
on  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lindsay Fortado at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net  