-- Europe Stocks Rise for Third Week as Growth Tops Forecast
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-08-16T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/europe-stocks-rise-for-third-week-as-growth-tops-forecast.html
European stocks  advanced for a third
straight week as data showing the euro area emerged from the
longest recession on record outweighed speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will trim monetary stimulus.  Italian banks led gains as Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena
SpA and Unione di Banche Italiane SCPA rallied at least 12
percent. GAM Holding AG jumped the most in almost four years as
the asset manager said first-half profit more than tripled.
Fresnillo Plc and Randgold Resources Ltd. increased at least 9
percent as prices for gold and silver rallied.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index increased 0.1 percent
to 306.36 this past week, extending its 2013 advance to 9.5
percent. The Euro Stoxx 50 Index added 1 percent for a sixth
week of gains.  Gross domestic product  in the 17-nation euro area
expanded 0.3 percent in the second quarter after a six straight
periods of contraction, according a report on Aug. 14. That
exceeded the median estimate of 0.2 percent growth in a
Bloomberg survey of economists.  “The global economy is improving, which means company
profitability will improve, which means equity as an asset class
should attract new money,” Kevin Lilley, head of European
Equities at Old Mutual Global Investors, which manages about $17
billion, said by phone. “For the first time in two years, with
a continuation of positive news flows, the man on the street
might go out and purchase that car he’s been thinking about, the
new television or remodel his house.”  Fed Tapering  The Stoxx 600 slid 1.1 percent on Aug. 15, the most in five
weeks, as a U.S. Labor Department report showed initial  jobless-benefit claims  unexpectedly dropped to the lowest level in
almost six years. The better-than-forecast data fueled
speculation the Fed will pare the pace of bond buying and pushed
10-year  Treasury yields  to a two-year high.  The Fed will probably reduce its $85 billion in monthly
debt purchases at its meeting on Sept. 17-18, according to 65
percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg from Aug. 9 to Aug.
13. In a survey last month, half of economists predicted a
reduction at next month’s meeting.  National benchmark indexes advanced in 13 of the 18 western
European markets this week.  France ’s CAC 40 Index climbed 1.2
percent and  Germany ’s DAX Index increased 0.6 percent. The
U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index sank 1.3 percent, while the  Swiss Market
Index (SMI)  retreated 0.2 percent.  Italian banks posted the biggest gains in the Stoxx 600, as
the extra yield investors demand to hold the nation’s 10-year
bonds over benchmark German bunds shrank to the lowest level in
two years. Monte Paschi, the third-largest bank in  Italy , surged
14 percent and UBI rallied 12 percent.  GAM Gains  GAM jumped 15 percent, the most since October 2009. The
asset manager that split from Julius Baer Group Ltd. almost four
years ago said first-half profit more than tripled after fee and
commission income increased.  Fresnillo (FRES) , the world’s largest primary silver producer,
surged 13 percent and Randgold, a producer of the precious metal
in  Africa , jumped 9.1 percent. Gold climbed to the highest price
in almost two months and silver rose to the highest since May.  A measure of  travel and leisure companies  posted the
biggest decline of 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600,
retreating 2.3 percent. In  Egypt , at least 600 people died
following Aug. 14 police assaults on two squares in Cairo and
Giza where Muslim Brotherhood supporters were camped out to
demand the return of ousted President Mohamed Mursi, according
to the official death toll.  Thomas Cook  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG)  tumbled 9.9 percent for the biggest
drop in five months. UBS AG removed the 172-year-old U.K. tour
operator from its list of preferred stocks, citing the “high-profile media coverage” of the violence in Egypt.  TUI Travel Plc,  Europe ’s largest tour operator, retreated
4.6 percent, the most in four months.  Airlines fell as crude oil advanced. EasyJet plunged 8.7
percent and International Consolidated Airlines Group SA fell
4.4 percent. Ryanair Holdings Plc lost 8.3 percent for the
biggest drop in 2 1/2 years.  Ophir Energy Plc tumbled 12 percent as the explorer and BG
Group Plc delayed plans to start deepwater drilling off Tanzania
in September. Ophir also postponed exploration plans in Gabon
and  Equatorial Guinea , and is studying its options in  Ghana 
following unsuccessful drilling there.  Geberit AG fell 11 percent, the most since August 2011. The
maker of toilets and bathroom piping said there’s been “a clear
fall in demand” in most European markets since the fourth
quarter of 2012 and a continued downturn in public construction
in  North America .  U.K. homebuilders declined as increasing bond yields
spurred concern rising  interest rates  may hinder the housing
recovery.  Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV)  sank 7.4 percent, Persimmon
Plc fell 3.6 percent and  Taylor Wimpey Plc  lost 3.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in London at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  