-- Euro-Area Exports Increase 3% as Inflation Holds Below 2%
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-08-16T09:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/euro-area-exports-increase-3-as-inflation-holds-below-2-1-.html
Euro-area exports increased for the
first time in three months, led by a rebound in  Germany , while
inflation held steady at 1.6 percent as the economy gathers
strength after the  longest recession  since the debut of the
single currency.  Exports from the 17-nation bloc rose a seasonally adjusted
3 percent in June from May, when they dropped 2.6 percent, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.
Shipments from Germany, Europe’s biggest economy, gained 6.3
percent, after a 9 percent decline the prior month. The euro-area  inflation rate  remained at 1.6 percent in July, a separate
report showed.  Europe’s economy emerged from a record-long recession in
the second quarter, expanding for the first time since 2011.
Accelerating growth in the U.S., the world’s largest economy,
and relative calm on financial markets have helped the euro area
begin to recover. The  European Central Bank  has cut  interest
rates  to a record low and pledged to keep them there or lower
for an “extended period” to foster growth.  “The euro zone’s growth will mainly be driven by increased
demand from the U.S. and emerging economies,” Moody’s Analytics
said in an Aug. 15 report. “A slowdown in these markets is the
main risk to the outlook, along with any deterioration in the
euro zone’s internal situation.”  Trade Surplus  The euro was lower against the  U.S. dollar  after the data,
trading at $1.3338 at 11:02 a.m. in Brussels, down 0.1 percent
on the day. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index was 0.1 percent lower at
304.95.  Euro-zone imports increased 2.5 percent in June after a 2.1
percent decrease the prior month, and the  trade surplus 
increased to 14.9 billion euros ($19.9 billion) from 13.8
billion euros.  Exports from  France , the second-biggest euro-area economy,
fell 1.7 percent, while Italian shipments rose 1.4 percent,
today’s data showed. Spanish exports dropped 2.4 percent.  The 1.6 percent  inflation rate  matched an initial estimate
on July 31. It is the sixth straight month that the rate has
been less than the ECB’s 2 percent ceiling.  Gross domestic product  in the euro area rose 0.3 percent in
the April-June period after a 0.3 percent contraction in the
previous three months, the statistics office said on Aug. 14.
Germany and France both showed faster-than-projected expansions
in the quarter. Still, the recession has pushed the  unemployment
rate  to a record 12.1 percent and areas of southern Europe
remain in a slump, with more than half of young people in Spain
and  Greece  out of work.  ‘Subdued Recovery’  “A subdued recovery remains the most likely scenario,”
said Peter Vanden Houte, an economist at ING Bank NV in
Brussels. “Confidence remains fragile.”  European companies are showing improved earnings for the
second quarter. Henkel AG, the German maker of Fa soap and
deodorant, reported second-quarter profit that beat estimates.  “We’ve seen double-digit growth in  Brazil , India and
China,” Chief Financial Officer Carsten Knobel said on Aug. 8.
While Henkel saw continued weakness in southern Europe and
Japan, growth is Russia was “strong,” he said.  Prada SpA (1913) , an Italian maker of $1,870 handbags, reported a
12 percent increase in first-half sales, boosted by growth in
 Asia . The luxury-goods industry is rebounding after a stuttering
start to the year, with  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  and
Gucci-owner Kering SA last month reporting accelerating sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  