-- Everbright Securities Trading Error Roils Shanghai Stock Market
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-16T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/everbright-securities-investigates-trading-system-error-1-.html
Everbright Securities Co. (601788) , the
state-controlled Chinese brokerage that’s part of a group
including financial firms and hotels, is probing a trading error
that roiled the country’s stock market yesterday.  The  China  Securities Regulatory Commission is investigating
a surge in the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  caused by large share
purchases by Everbright, the regulator said in a statement
yesterday. All other operations are normal, China’s fifth-largest brokerage by market value said in a statement to the
bourse.  China’s  stock market  was put in turmoil by a 53 percent
surge in trading volumes that sent the benchmark index to its
biggest intraday gain since March 2009. Disruptions in
electronic markets have been under scrutiny since a May 2010
incident in which the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell almost
1,000 points in minutes before rebounding.  “This is a negative development for Everbright’s stock,”
said Liu Jun, an analyst at Chang Jiang Securities Co. in the
central city of Wuhan. “Everbright Securities’ business
transformation has been slower than expected and its investment
banking business is under investigation, which could affect its
bond underwriting.”  The  Shanghai  Composite jumped from a loss of as much as 1
percent to a gain of 5.6 percent in two minutes during the
morning session, as 16 of the measure’s 20 biggest companies by
weighting increased by the 10 percent daily limit. The gauge
closed with a loss of 0.6 percent.  Shares Suspended  The Shanghai Stock Exchange is also investigating
Everbright’s trades, the securities regulator said.  Shares in Everbright Securities were suspended for the
afternoon session in Shanghai, after rising 6.7 percent to 12.12
 yuan  in the morning. The stock has declined 14 percent this
year, surpassing the 8.8 percent fall in the equity benchmark.  “When the proprietary operation of the strategic
investment department of Everbright Securities used its
independent arbitrage system, it encountered a problem,”
Everbright Securities said in its statement to the Shanghai
stock exchange yesterday. Board Secretary Mei Jian declined to
comment further.  The brokerage’s  profit  has declined for three straight
years, with net income falling 35 percent to 1 billion yuan
($164 million) last year, according to a March exchange filing.
It is scheduled to report first-half earnings on Aug. 22.  Everbright Securities in June said it’s being investigated
by China’s securities regulator for its work on Henan Tianfon
Energy-Saving Panel Science & Technology Co.’s proposed initial
public offering. The market watchdog has also frozen approvals
for IPOs for more than 10 months amid a crackdown on fraud and
misconduct by companies and bankers, and has said it won’t allow
listings to resume until the CSRC introduces new rules.  Sale Delayed  The brokerage’s plan to raise as much as 8 billion yuan
from a private placement of its shares was also blocked by the
securities regulator last month after it started investigating
the firm.  China Everbright Group and its Hong Kong-listed unit, China
 Everbright Ltd. (165) , hold 67 percent of Shanghai-based Everbright
Securities. Everbright Ltd. fell 5.5 percent, the biggest drop
in more than a year, to close at HK$11.04 in Hong Kong trading.  The closely held parent group, led by Chairman Tang Shuangning and supervised by China’s State Council, has
businesses spanning from banking, broking, insurance, futures
and asset management to hotels, tourism and property
development. Established in 1983, it had 2.4 trillion yuan of
assets and almost 50,000 employees at the end of last year,
according to its website.  ‘‘I haven’t seen this kind of error in at least the past 10
years,” Chen Xingyu, a Shanghai-based analyst at Phillip
Securities Group, said by telephone yesterday. “This is an
extraordinarily big loophole, which doesn’t just show defects in
Everbright, but also the A-share market.”  Knight Capital Group Inc. lost more than $450 million after
sending erroneous orders to U.S. exchanges on Aug. 1, 2012,
because of a computer malfunction. Knight was later purchased by
Getco LLC to create  KCG Holdings Inc. (KCG)   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  