-- Mexico Peso Heads to Weekly Drop as Oil Law Disappoints Traders
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-08-16T14:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/mexico-peso-heads-to-weekly-drop-as-oil-law-disappoints-traders.html
Mexico’s peso headed for the biggest
weekly drop since June, costing the currency its status as the
world’s top performer this year, as the government’s plan to
break the oil monopoly disappointed some investors.  The currency depreciated 1.6 percent this week to 12.8250
per  U.S. dollar  at 9:42 a.m. in Mexico City, slipping less than
0.1 percent today, poised for the biggest one-week decline since
the period ending June 21. This week’s decline left the peso up
0.2 percent this year, trailing the Danish krone and euro among
16 major currencies tracked the Bloomberg.  Mexico peso-denominated bonds, which fell yesterday as
improving U.S. jobs data fueled speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will pare back its bond buying program this year, extending
declines today amid concern President Enrique Pena Nieto’s plan
to open up the energy industry contains fewer incentives for
private  oil companies  to invest than investors had anticipated.  “It was far less than the market was expecting,”  Pedro Tuesta , a Latin America economist at 4cast Ltd., said in a
telephone interview from Washington. “It is an improvement from
the previous situation, but it could have been better. There are
too many restrictions.”  Instead of offering ownership concessions, Pena Nieto opted
for profit-sharing contracts, under which the oil would remain
state property and drillers receive a cost reimbursement and
pre-agreed share of the net income.  Yields on government peso bonds due in 2024 rose one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 6.13 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The yields have jumped 36 basis
points this week, the most since the period ended June 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in  Mexico  City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  