-- Exxon, Talisman Said to Seek Hess, Newfield Asian Assets
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2013-08-16T02:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/exxon-talisman-said-to-bid-for-hess-and-newfield-s-asian-assets.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  are among bidders for Asian oil and natural gas fields
that may fetch about $3 billion for  Hess Corp. (HES)  and Newfield 
Exploration Co., said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  has also made an offer for the assets,
which Hess and Newfield are selling separately, the people said,
asking not to be identified because the information is private.
The fields may generate about $1.5 billion for each seller, the
people said.  Hess, based in New York, is selling its share of gas fields
in Indonesia and Thailand, while The Woodlands, Texas-based
Newfield is selling stakes in offshore oil and natural gas
projects in Malaysia and China. Each hired  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  to manage the process, and plans to short-list potential
buyers next month, said one of the people.  The sale of the China project may be delayed by recent
damage to a production platform,  Newfield (NFX)  said in a filing on
Aug. 14. The Malaysia sale is “on-track and is expected to
close in late 2013 or early 2014,” the company said.  Hess announced asset sales this year that will yield $3.5
billion as it exits refining and divests gasoline stations and
other units to focus on oil exploration and production. In May,
the company ended a four-month proxy battle with billionaire
shareholder Paul Singer’s Elliott Management Corp. after
agreeing to add board members nominated by Singer.  First Refusal  Thailand’s PTT Exploration and Production Pcl has the right
to match bids for Hess’s Thai gas fields while Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. has similar rights for Newfield’s Malaysian
assets, the people said.  PTT will join bids to buy assets owned by Hess in Thailand
and  Indonesia  over the next two months, Asdakorn Limpiti, the
company’s executive vice president, told reporters yesterday in
Bangkok without elaborating.  Officials at Shell, Exxon, Talisman and Petronas declined
to comment on their interest in the fields. The bids for
Newfield’s assets was reported earlier by Reuters.  Hess holds 35 percent of Thailand’s Sinphuhorm field, which
is also part owned by PTT Exploration, Exxon and Apico LLC,
according to its  website . In Indonesia, it owns 75 percent of
the Pangkah field off the northeast coast of Java, as well as
the Semai V Block in the waters off West Papua.  Hess has nothing to announce about the pending sales in
Thailand and Indonesia,  Jon Pepper , a company spokesman, said in
an Aug. 13 telephone interview.  “The sale process is ongoing,” said  Keith Schmidt , a
spokesman for Newfield, which said in February that it would
evaluate strategic alternatives for its international assets.
Schmidt declined to comment on potential bids or the value of
the assets.  Revenue from Malaysia accounted for 39 percent of
Newfield’s $2.6 billion in annual sales last year,  data  compiled
by Bloomberg show. China accounted for another 3.4 percent, the
data show.  “We’ve seen strong interest in the assets,” Newfield’s
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lee Boothby said on a July
25 conference call with analysts and investors. “Sales of our
international businesses will be a transformational step to
becoming a North American-focused resource company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in  Hong Kong  at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  