-- Fed’s Fisher Says Bond Yields Rising as Investors See QE Waning
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-08-16T21:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/fed-s-fisher-says-bond-yields-rising-as-investors-see-qe-waning.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher , one of the Fed’s most vocal critics of
bond purchases by the central bank, said government bond yields
are rising amid recognition the buying will eventually end.  The Fed should taper purchases next month if economic
reports remain favorable, Fisher said, adding employment is
picking up and “the housing market has turned.” U.S. companies
“are lean and mean and ready to go” with stronger balance
sheets, Fisher said today in a television interview with Fox
Business Network. He will vote on monetary policy next year.  “The market has come to realize that there’s no QE
infinity,” Fisher said, referring to asset purchases known as
quantitative easing. “The economy is improving. We’re seeing
better numbers in the economy. You would expect to see a
steepening of the yield curve.”  Treasury 10-year yields touched a two-year high of  2.86
percent (USGG10YR)  today on speculation the  Federal Open Market Committee 
will slow its large-scale asset purchases next month. Policy
makers are weighing when to begin reducing monthly buying of $85
billion in bonds, which they have pledged to maintain until the
job market improves substantially.  U.S. 10-year note yields rose six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 2.83 percent as of 5:01 p.m. in  New York .
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent to 1,655.83
today to complete its biggest weekly decline since June.  “We have artificially suppressed rates,” Fisher said
today. “This cannot go on forever.”  QE Taper  The FOMC will probably vote at its Sept. 17-18 meeting to
taper the unprecedented stimulus program, according to 65
percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg Aug. 9-13. The first
step may be to taper monthly purchases by $10 billion to a $75
billion pace, according to the median estimate in the survey of
48 economists. They said buying will probably end by mid-2014.  Fisher and three other officials with varied voting records
on monetary stimulus indicated greater willingness last week to
begin tapering purchases, citing confidence the economy is
accelerating. Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans , a voting
member of the policy making FOMC this year who dissented twice
in 2011 in favor of easier policy, said he wouldn’t rule out a
reduction at the Sept. 17-18 meeting.  The pace of  job creation  has slowed. Employers added
162,000 workers in July, the least in four months, while the
jobless rate dropped to a four-year low 7.4 percent from 7.6
percent as more Americans left the  labor force . Hourly earnings
fell for the first time since October.  Second Quarter  Gross domestic product rose at a 1.7 percent annualized
rate in the second quarter, after a 1.1 percent gain in the
first, Commerce Department data show.  By buying Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities, the
Fed has pumped up its balance sheet to a record  $3.65 trillion .  Fisher said in January that, with Fed assets growing, the
potential costs of the asset purchases were outweighing the
benefits. In March he said the purchases should be slowed as the
housing market is “quite strong.”  Fisher, 64, has been president of the Dallas Fed since
2005. His district includes  Texas , northern  Louisiana  and
southern  New Mexico .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  