-- Forint Weakens on Foreign Bond Selling Concern: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-08-16T14:45:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/forint-weakens-on-foreign-bond-selling-concern-budapest-mover.html
The forint had the steepest weekly
drop in almost two months and the worst daily performance across
 emerging markets  on concern foreign investors are reducing their
holdings of local currency debt.  The currency depreciated 0.6 percent to 300.16 per euro by
2:59 p.m. in Budapest, extending its loss in the past five days
to 1.3 percent.  Foreign ownership of local debt fell to 4.89 trillion
forint ($21.7 billion) as of Aug. 13, the lowest level since
April 19,  data  from the Debt Management Agency showed. Yields on
five-year bonds rose to a seven-week high today.  “Some funds were selling bonds hard and their exit hit the
forint,” Akos Ruzsonyi, a Budapest-based currency trader at
Commerzbank AG, wrote by e-mail today. “Besides, there is a
long weekend coming up, so people are closing their positions,”
Ruzsonyi said, referring to a four-day break starting tomorrow.  The overseas ownership of  Hungary ’s debt recovered to 4.99
trillion forint on Aug. 14, still 200 billion forint lower than
on July 8. The latest rebound makes the dip earlier this week
appear “less scary,” Gabor Ambrus, a London-based analyst at
4CAST Ltd., wrote in an e-mail today, referring to the agency’s
figures.  Funds controlled by  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN)  alone held 6.6
percent of the benchmark 10-year forint bonds and more than 31
percent of 10-year dollar notes, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Yields on the government’s five-year bonds advanced 9 basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 5.65 percent, in a fourth
day of increases.  Slower Growth  The forint weakened 2.9 percent since the government said
on July 16 it plans to expand measures to help foreign-currency
mortgage borrowers, who have suffered as the forint depreciated
against the Swiss franc and the euro.  Hungary’s currency extended losses after data showed on
Aug. 14 gross domestic product advanced 0.1 percent in the
second quarter compared with the previous three months, slower
than the 0.3 percent expansion predicted in a Bloomberg survey.
The central bank cut its benchmark rate for a 12th consecutive
month to a record 4 percent in July, pledging to continue easing
to help the economy recover from recession.  “The expected continuation of the rate cuts is making the
appreciation of the forint less likely, while the rescue for
foreign-currency borrowers being prepared is also weighing on
the forint,” Zoltan Arokszallasi, a Budapest-based analyst at
Erste Group Bank AG, wrote in a research report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  