-- German Rent Rally Stalls in Biggest Cities After Years of Gains
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-08-16T10:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/german-rent-rally-stalls-in-biggest-cities-after-years-of-gains.html
Advertised rents in the German city
of Hamburg fell for the first time in five years in July as
lengthy rallies slowed or stopped in the country’s biggest urban
areas, according to online broker  Immobilien Scout GmbH .  Offered rents in the northern German city declined 0.7
percent in July from June,  the first drop since June 2007,
according to data compiled by the Berlin-based broker. Cologne
in the west slid 0.2 percent in the first retreat since April
2012. Frankfurt and Munich declined 0.2 percent and 0.4 percent
respectively, continuing a slowdown that began this year. Berlin
was the only city among Germany’s five largest where rents rose.  “For the first time since we’ve been compiling the IMX
Index we have identified tangible declines,” Michael Kiefer,
Immobilien Scout’s head of valuations, said in a  statement 
yesterday. The index was first compiled in March 2012. “This
shows that very high rents can no longer be pushed through in
large cities,” he said.  Offered rents in Berlin rose 0.4 percent in July from June,
bucking the trend because rents in the German capital are still
low compared with other cities, Kiefer said.  German housing costs in  Germany ’s largest cities have
jumped in the past five years as young people move to areas
where jobs are easier to find while construction fails to keep
up with demand. Legislators are tightening rent regulation and
politicians are promising to introduce new rules to keep rents
and prices in check.  State governments in cities including Hamburg, Berlin and
Munich plan to make it illegal to raise rents in certain
neighborhoods by more than 15 percent over a three-year period,
officials said in April. The initiative follows passage of a
national law in December that makes it easier for cities that
face a housing shortage to cap rents.  Offered rents in Germany’s five largest cities rose 4.4
percent in July from a year earlier, according to Immobilien
Scout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  