-- German Green Premier Voices Election Concern at SPD
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   A l a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2013-08-16T13:11:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/german-green-premier-voices-election-concern-at-spd.html
Germany’s first Green state leader
criticized the campaign of his party’s chosen coalition partner,
urging the Social Democrats to let chancellor candidate Peer Steinbrueck “be himself” to improve their electoral chances.  Winfried Kretschmann, the prime minister of Baden-Wuerttemberg state, also left the door open to a potential
coalition with  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democrats
after the Sept. 22 election, saying that it makes no sense to
rule out such an alliance even if it’s not his preferred option.  The comments by Germany’s most senior elected Green
official reflect the opposition’s difficulty in finding ways to
attack Merkel with unemployment near a two-decade low, the
economy growing and voter support for her handling of the euro-area debt crisis. A poll today showed Merkel extending her lead
over the main opposition SPD little more than five weeks before
the vote.  While the Greens’ campaign has begun well, “out of the
corner of our eye what naturally concerns us is that our
preferred coalition partner hasn’t yet got going properly,”
Kretschmann, 65, said in an interview yesterday in the garden of
his official villa overlooking Stuttgart, the state capital.
“We can’t agonize over the situation with the SPD. They can
only solve the problem themselves.”  Kretschmann’s comments come on the heels of criticism by
former SPD leader Franz Muentefering in  Die Zeit  newspaper on
Aug. 13 that Steinbrueck had been given no backing by the party,
and the campaign “made his hair stand on end.”  ‘Be Himself’  Steinbrueck “has to be himself and shouldn’t let himself
be browbeaten,” Kretschmann said. “He’s rough around the
edges,” yet bringing an “authentic” personality into the
campaign “is the only way, because anything else won’t work.”  The SPD  dropped two percentage points  to 25 percent in an
FG Wahlen poll for ZDF television published today. Merkel’s
Christian Democratic Union and its Bavarian sister party, the
Christian Social Union, had 41 percent, up one point since the
last poll on Aug. 2.  The Greens also lost a point to 13 percent, while Merkel’s
Free Democratic coalition partner held at 5 percent. The Left
Party rose a point to 8 percent. FG Wahlen polled 1,316 voters
on Aug. 13-15. The results have a margin of error of as much as
3.1 percentage points.  Kretschmann has ruled in Baden-Wuerttemberg since 2011,
when he ended 58 years of uninterrupted CDU rule after a surge
in Green support in the wake of the Fukushima nuclear disaster,
allowing him to form a coalition with the SPD as junior partner.
Asked if his party should consider aligning with Merkel’s CDU-led bloc at national level after next month’s election, he
reiterated his preference for a Green alliance with the Social
Democrats.  “If the voter decides differently, you have to be open for
other solutions,” he said. “I don’t hold any store by
exclusionism. The country has to be governed, and if the desired
coalition doesn’t materialize, then another one has to take its
place. We hopefully wouldn’t watch that but would get
involved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Stuttgart,  Germany , at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Crawford in Stuttgart, Germany, at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  