-- Gulf Low-Pressure System Little Threat to Energy Areas
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-08-17T18:43:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/gulf-low-pressure-system-little-threat-to-energy-areas.html
A low-pressure system drifting in
the western  Gulf of Mexico  will probably have little impact on
offshore energy rigs and platforms, some of which have evacuated
non-essential personnel.  The system has a 30 percent chance of organizing into a
tropical depression or storm in the next two days, down from 50
percent earlier, the  National Hurricane Center  in Miami said in
a  weather outlook  before 2 p.m.  New York  time today.  “I hate to say zero, but it is a very, very low threat to
production regions except for gusty winds and rain,” said Phil
Vida, an operational meteorologist at  MDA Weather Services  in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  The Gulf is home to about 6 percent of U.S. natural gas
output, 23 percent of oil production and at least 45 percent of
petroleum-refining capacity, according to the Energy Department.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s Manta Ray offshore natural gas gathering
company evacuated non-essential personnel from two platforms off
Louisiana on Aug. 14.  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  pulled some workers
from its Ewing Bank platform in the Gulf yesterday.  BP Plc (BP/)  began removing non-essential workers from four
offshore platforms yesterday and drilling rigs contracted by the
company halted operations. Production at all platforms “remains
online,” the company said on its website.  Vida said he would “be shocked” if any company removed
workers vital to operations.  Misshapen System  Satellite images show the system is being stretched out, an
indication of wind shear that may keep it from growing stronger,
said Mark Paquette, a meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. in  State
College , Pennsylvania.  “Conditions over the Gulf of Mexico are not favorable,”
Paquette said by telephone.  Because the storm has no real center, its path won’t be
easy to predict, Vida said. Both he and Paquette said the main
threat from the storm will probably be heavy rain for the
Southeast, including Georgia, South Carolina and  North Carolina .  “Much of the Southeast has seen more than enough rain
through the early part of this summer,” Paquette said. “They
are trying to give their rain away and they can’t.”  The hurricane center is also tracking  Tropical Storm Erin ,
which was about 815 miles (1,311 kilometers) west of the Cape
Verde Islands as of 11 a.m. New York time today. Erin
strengthened from a tropical depression yesterday and is
expected to weaken beginning tomorrow.  A depression is the weakest form of tropical system. A
storm gets a name when its winds reach 39 miles (63 kilometers)
per hour. When maximum sustained winds reach at least 74 mph, a
system is classified as a hurricane according to the five-step
 Saffir-Simpson scale .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  