-- Ibovespa Futures Fluctuate as Metals Rally Blunts Growth Outlook
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-08-16T12:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/ibovespa-futures-fluctuate-as-metals-rally-blunts-growth-outlook.html
Ibovespa futures were little
changed, a day after the equity gauge posted a seventh straight
gain, as a rally in commodities offset JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
cut to its estimate for Brazilian growth.  Gerdau SA, Latin America’s biggest steelmaker, may be
active after Santander raised its recommendation on the stock to
buy from underperform.  Eike Batista ’s flagship oil producer OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA may move after  Standard & Poor’s 
cut its rating to CCC- from CCC, with a negative outlook.  Ibovespa futures contracts expiring in October were little
changed at 50,370 at 9:26 a.m. in  Sao Paulo  after gaining and
falling as much as 0.3 percent. The real weakened 0.4 percent to
2.3497 per dollar.  The Bloomberg Base Metals 3-Month Price Commodity Index
climbed 0.9 percent. JPMorgan cut its forecast for the Brazil’s
economic growth in 2014 to 2.4 percent from 2.7 percent,
according to a research report.  “Although activity was accelerating until June, we should
see July activity numbers plunging as there was a widespread
decline in confidence,” JPMorgan analysts led by Fabio Akira
wrote in a report. “However, even acknowledging that part of
this decline in sentiment could be temporary, we think that it
could have longer-lasting economic implications.”  The Ibovespa has gained 13 percent from this year’s low on
July 3 as higher commodities prices boosted raw-material
exporters and OGX led a rally by companies owned by Batista.
Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 13.3 times analysts’
earnings estimates for the next four quarters, compared with
10.5 for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of 21 developing
nations’ equities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  