-- Military Crackdown Worsens Pollution in Nigeria’s Oil Region
-- B y   Y i n k a   I b u k u n
-- 2013-08-16T11:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/military-crackdown-worsens-pollution-in-nigeria-s-oil-region.html
The Nigerian government’s military
crackdown against the theft of crude in the Niger River delta
has left more than a 1,000 makeshift refineries in flames,
worsening pollution in the area, authorities said.  A military taskforce deployed last year to stop theft and
protect facilities in  Africa ’s top oil producer has destroyed
1,819 makeshift refineries, set ablaze 861 boats carrying as
much as 20,000 liters (5,277 gallons) each of illegally refined
crude and 51 tanker trucks, force commander Major General Bata
Debiro said yesterday at a conference on crude theft in Lagos.  The military’s actions also contributed to pollution in the
delta, Nigerian Maritime Safety Agency Director-General Ziakede
Patrick Akpobolokemi told the meeting. “Security operatives
blowing up things is causing more pollution,” he said.  Security forces have been struggling to halt oil theft in
the West African nation that depends on crude exports for 80
percent of government revenue and 95 percent of its export
income. Authorities say more than 400,000 barrels of oil are
stolen every day.  Nigeria  pumped about 1.9 million barrels a day
last month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Debiro’s 6,102 soldiers and police are operating in a
70,000 square-kilometer (27,027 square-mile) region of land,
mangroves and creeks that is filled with pipelines. That area is
bigger than the U.S. state of  West Virginia .  Illegal Refiners  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,
 Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  run joint ventures with state-owned
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that pump more than 90 percent
of the output of Africa’s top oil producer. They blame sabotage
for most of the spills.  Illegal refiners are also to blame, officials said. To
refine the oil, gangs boil the crude in open cauldrons, a
process that often results in burning down large patches of the
delta’s mangrove and rain forests and polluting its rivers.  The fuel they produce is sold at filling stations in the
region, where legal gasoline is often sold at two to three times
the normal price, said Chief of Naval Staff Vice-Admiral Dele
Joseph Ezeoba.  In just one area, Ogoniland, the United Nations
Environmental Programme estimated in 2011 that it would take as
many as 30 years to clean up the region of 1,000 square
kilometers. The report blamed spills on sabotage and the lack of
pipeline maintenance by  oil companies .  A Dutch District Court in  The Hague  ruled on Jan. 30 that
Shell must pay compensation in one of five claims by Nigerian
villagers from the Niger delta for a spill from its facility
that affected their livelihood. Judge Henk Wien said Shell
wasn’t liable for four other claims.  The UNEP report called on the Nigerian government and the
nation’s oil industry to set up a $1 billion fund to clean up
Ogoniland that has suffered years of pollution.  “Two years after the report UNEP report, nothing has been
done about Ogoniland,” said Nnimmo Bassey, the coordinator of
Oil Watch International, based in Benin City, Nigeria.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Maier in Johannesburg at 
 kmaier2@bloomberg.net ;
Yinka Ibukun in Lagos at 
 yibukun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  