-- India’s Nifty Index Futures Drop Amid Second Day of Asia Losses
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-08-16T02:35:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/india-s-nifty-index-futures-drop-amid-second-day-of-asia-losses.html
Indian stock-index futures dropped
amid a second day of losses in Asian equities. Local exchanges
reopen after a public holiday yesterday.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for August delivery fell 0.9
percent from the close on Aug. 14 to 5,702 at 9:54 a.m. in
Singapore. Futures dropped 0.6 percent from yesterday. The
underlying CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index climbed 0.8 percent to 5,742.30 on
Aug. 14. The S&P BSE Sensex rose 0.7 percent. The Bank of  New
York  Mellon India ADR Index of U.S.-traded shares tumbled 2.4
percent yesterday. The rupee weakened 0.4 percent to 61.4437 on
Aug. 14, compared with a record low of 61.8063 on Aug. 6.  The  Reserve Bank  of India cut the amount local companies
can invest without approval and tightened the remittance limit
for residents after the market closed on Aug. 14. It was the
latest in a series of moves since last month that have so far
failed to halt a slide in the rupee as the government wrestles
with an unprecedented current-account deficit and an economy
that grew at the slowest pace in a decade in the year ended
March 31.  “The rupee has been weakening even after the liquidity
measures taken by the RBI, largely due to the high current-account deficit,” said Dipen Shah, head of private client group
research at Kotak Securities Ltd. “The government has relaxed
some rules to encourage more flows. These have not had any
impact and further steps are needed to either curtail the
deficit or finance it and stem the depreciation of the rupee.”  MSCI Revisions  Asian stocks fell today, paring a weekly advance, as
investors shied away from riskier assets after an unexpected
drop in U.S. jobless claims fueled speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will cut stimulus next month.  Foreigners pulled $3 billion from stocks and bonds last
month amid concerns over the Fed’s stimulus plans, leaving the
rupee vulnerable to a current-account gap that widened to a
record 4.8 percent of gross domestic product in the year ended
March.  Shares of Indian companies from  Hero MotoCorp Ltd. (HMCL)  to  ICICI
Bank (ICICIBC)  Ltd. may move after MSCI Inc. announced quarterly revisions
to its equity indexes on Aug. 14.  Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Ltd. (MMFS)  was added to
MSCI Global Standard Indices. Hero MotoCorp and  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  had
their weightings in MSCI indexes increased, while ICICI Bank,
Lupin Ltd., Adani Enterprises Ltd. and Godrej Consumer Products
Ltd. were reduced.  The Sensex has lost 0.3 percent this year and  trades  at
13.7 times projected 12-month earnings, compared with the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index’s 10.1 times.  About 47 percent of Sensex companies missed analysts’
earnings estimates for the June quarter, compared with 27
percent for the three months ended March and 43 percent in the
quarter through December, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  International investors  bought a net $12.4 million of
 Indian (SENSEX)  shares on Aug. 13, data from the regulator show. That
took this year’s inflow to $12.53 billion, the second-biggest
among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  