-- India Sub Crew Burned Beyond Recognition; 3 Bodies Found
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-08-16T07:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/indian-divers-searching-for-sailors-hampered-by-damage-to-sub.html
India ’s navy said disfiguring burns
had left the bodies of three sailors recovered from a sunken
submarine impossible to identify, suggesting there was no chance
of finding survivors aboard the gutted vessel.  Boiling water inside the submarine caused by explosions and
a fire early on Aug. 14 in a Mumbai dockyard had initially
prevented divers from entering the boat, the navy said in a
statement. The high temperatures melted steel within the
submarine and would likely have incinerated some of the crew,
the navy said in a statement today.  The state of the “bodies and conditions within the
submarine leads to a firm conclusion that finding any surviving
personnel is unlikely,” according to the statement.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said yesterday the probable
death of the sailors was “all the more painful” given the
nation’s recent strides in modernizing its military. This is the
worst submarine accident in the country’s history and the
biggest setback for the navy since the loss of a warship in 1971
during a conflict with  Pakistan .  Divers have had to overcome jammed doors and hatches,
twisted ladders and waters so murky that they were working in
total darkness, even with high-powered underwater lamps. Rescue
teams were only able to gain access to the submarine’s second
compartment this morning, where the three bodies were found, the
navy said in the statement.  A nearby naval hospital will carry out DNA tests to attempt
to identify the three sailors recovered today. The diving teams
will continue to search the submarine until all the bodies are
located or they are sure no more will be found.  The Sindhurakshak, whose name means “protector of the
ocean,” is a Russian-built Kilo class submarine that returned
to Mumbai earlier this year after a $133 million refit at a
shipyard in  Russia , according to India’s defense ministry.  There have been several accidents aboard Russian-made
submarines in the past 15 years. Twenty Russians died on a
vessel when a faulty firefighting system was accidentally
activated during trials in the Sea of  Japan  in 2008. The Kursk
sank in August 2000 after an onboard explosion in the Barents
Sea, killing all 118 on board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  