-- Indian Rupee Drops to Record After Currency Measures
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-08-16T11:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/indian-rupee-drops-to-record-after-currency-measures-bonds-fall.html
India’s rupee sank to a record on
concern recent steps to steady the currency will prompt
foreigners to rethink investment plans amid speculation the U.S.
will pare stimulus next month. Bonds and stocks plunged.  The  Reserve Bank  of India on Aug. 14 announced measures to
limit foreign-currency outflows from local companies and
residents, and boosted efforts to lure investment. U.S. housing
starts and  consumer confidence  data today may stoke speculation
the  Federal Reserve  will trim its bond purchases next month,
after jobless claims in the world’s largest economy fell to a
six-year low.  Economic Affairs Secretary Arvind Mayaram today said there
is no intent to defend the rupee at a particular level. The
government doesn’t plan to curb commercial outflows or impose
capital controls, he said. The rupee touched an unprecedented
62.0050 per dollar today before closing 0.3 percent weaker from
Aug. 14 at 61.6550 in Mumbai, according to prices from local
banks compiled by Bloomberg.  The RBI steps “might be perceived as being regressive and
tantamount to quasi- capital controls ,” Radhika Rao, an
economist at DBS Bank Ltd. in  Singapore , wrote in a research
report. “Despite being put forth as a temporary measure,
uncertainty over more such action is likely to remain and
possibly lead foreign investors to rethink plans to invest on
fear of controls.”  The currency fell 1.3 percent this week. India’s financial
markets were shut yesterday for the Independence Day holiday.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose 20 basis points
from Aug. 9, or 0.20 percentage point, and 23 basis points today
to 12.71 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Limiting Outflows  The RBI cut the amount local companies can invest overseas
without seeking approval to 100 percent of their net worth, from
400 percent, according to a statement on Aug. 14. Residents can
remit $75,000 a year versus the previous limit of $200,000. The
authority said banks accepting deposits after Aug. 24 from
Indians living abroad need no longer keep 4 percent of the funds
in cash and invest 23 percent in government-approved securities.  India also boosted  import duties  on bullion on Aug. 13 and
banned inward shipments of gold in the form of coins and
medallions to reduce the trade deficit. In a briefing in  New
Delhi  on Aug. 14, Mayaram said imported gold must be stored in
government-mandated warehouses.  Quasi-Sovereign  The government will seek to boost capital inflows with
measures including allowing state-owned financial companies to
issue “quasi-sovereign” bonds to finance long-term
infrastructure investment, Finance Minister Palaniappan
Chidambaram said Aug. 12.  The currency has weakened 26.5 percent in the past two
years, the biggest tumble since the government pledged gold
reserves in exchange for loans from the  International Monetary
Fund  in 1991.  India’s benchmark stock index dropped the most in about two
years on concern the measures will curb growth in an economy
that is expanding at the slowest pace in a decade. The S&P BSE
Sensex Index dropped 4 percent to 18,598.18 at the close in
Mumbai, the steepest retreat among global equity indexes tracked
by Bloomberg.  Cutting Holdings  State Bank  of India fell 3.3 percent to the lowest level in
four years, Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd., India’s biggest
power-equipment maker, plunged to the lowest level in eight
years.  Global funds have cut holdings of Indian debt by $10.1
billion since May 22 when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  first
signaled the U.S. may reduce bond purchases this year. Primary
dealers had to buy 14.44 billion rupees of the 160 billion
rupees of debt offered to local investors today, the fourth
failure among five weekly auctions since July 19, RBI data show.  The yield on the 7.16 percent government bonds due May 2023
rose 39 basis points today and 76 basis points this week to 8.88
percent, according to prices from the central bank’s trading
system. That’s the highest rate on a 10-year bond since November
2011.  Wholesale prices  rose 5.79 percent last month from a year
earlier, compared with 4.86 percent in June, official data
showed Aug. 14. A weaker currency stokes inflation as  India 
imports about 80 percent of its oil.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 0.7 percent today
to 63.39 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore
non-deliverable contracts declined 1.1 percent to 63.41.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  