-- Iraq Open to U.S. Drone Strikes on Terrorists
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-08-17T04:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/iraqi-foreign-minister-open-to-u-s-drone-strikes-on-terrorists.html
Al-Qaeda terror attacks have become
such a deadly epidemic in  Iraq  that the government in  Baghdad  is
seeking U.S. advisers, air surveillance or even drone strikes,
Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari said yesterday.  “We cannot fight these increasing terrorist” threats
alone, Zebari said in an interview with reporters in  Washington .
Zebari credited the U.S. with “vast experience” breaking up
al-Qaeda cells in Iraq, and said that expertise in intelligence,
analysis and targeting was lost when U.S. forces pulled out of
his country in December 2011.  The top Iraqi diplomat’s comments are the first time he has
publicly raised the possibility of working with the U.S. on
anti-terrorist drone strikes, a clandestine program whose use
against terror groups in  Pakistan  has fueled widespread protest
and damaged the U.S. alliance there.  Zebari was to meet yesterday with General Martin Dempsey,
the chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff who served in
Iraq, to discuss increased anti-terror cooperation.  “There is a greater realization in the Iraqi government
that you should not shy away” from asking for more U.S.
assistance “short of introducing U.S. troops in numbers,”
Zebari said.  More than 3,000 people have been killed in terror attacks
in Iraq in the past few months, including more than 60 who died
last weekend during the holiday marking the end of the Muslim
holy month of Ramadan, and 30 who were killed hours before
Zebari met Aug. 15 with Secretary of State  John Kerry  in
Washington.  Suicide Bombings  In 2011 and 2012, suicide bombings in Iraq averaged between
five and 10 a month. That number rose to 30 a month over the
last 90 days, according to the State Department.  Zebari attributed the worsening violence in part to the
rise of well-armed and well-funded jihadist groups fighting the
more than two-year-old civil war in neighboring  Syria , and their
collaboration with Iraqi militants. Al-Qaeda-linked groups are
launching attacks on both sides of the border, which is
difficult for his country to police, he said.  The Obama administration recently notified Congress that it
would sell Iraq about $4 billion in weapons, including an air
defense system to help it control its airspace and Stryker
armored vehicles. The U.S. is scheduled to provide a shipment of
F-16 aircraft to Iraq later this year.  Iraq’s inability to control its airspace has been a point
of contention as U.S. officials have complained that Iraq has
failed to intercept and inspect flights from  Iran  that the U.S.
suspects are ferrying weapons and fighters to help Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad put down the armed rebellion.  Humanitarian Supplies  Zebari said his government had inspected more than 15
flights to Syria since Kerry visited Iraq in March, including
Iranian and Syrian planes as well as at least one North Korean
and one Armenian flight. He said the Iraqis found only
humanitarian supplies.  Zebari praised the Obama administration for paying more
attention to Iraq in recent months as the terror threat has
risen, after what he called a long stretch by the U.S. of
ignoring Iraq in the aftermath of the troop withdrawal.  Asked if the Iraqi people would accept armed U.S. drones
conducting lethal attacks over their territory -- a tool that
Pakistanis have denounced as a violation of sovereignty --Zebari
dismissed such concerns.  As long as strikes were to “target al-Qaeda and their
bases,” without causing “collateral damage,” Zebari said he
thinks Iraqis would welcome them as “part of assistance” to
prevent attacks killing innocent Iraqis.  Counterterrorism Cooperation  Iraq may seek a limited number of U.S. advisers as well as
technical assistance and increased counterterrorism cooperation,
he said, though it won’t seek a renewed U.S. troop presence.
American forces completed their withdrawal from Iraq in 2011
after the U.S. and Iraqi governments failed to reach an
agreement to give the troops immunity from local prosecution.  Iraq also would “welcome American reconnaissance over
Iraq” and assistance with surveillance, particularly near its
borders, he said.  With “the whole  Middle East ” is turmoil and “in flames”
over the last months, the foreign minister said, “we really see
renewed focus on the situation in Iraq and the whole region.”  “The level of the threat has increased,” he said, and
“one of the key messages we have here is really we need your
support, your cooperation on the security side to fight al-Qaeda
to enhance our capabilities.”  The response, he said, has been positive, with Iraq
“pushing through open doors” recently in seeking more
attention and counterterrorism assistance.  Zebari also said an agreement in principle was reached this
week for Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki to meet, perhaps
as soon as in September, with President  Barack Obama  in
Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  