-- Titan Leads Drop After Gold Import Rules Tightened: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-08-16T08:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/titan-leads-drop-after-gold-import-rules-tightened-mumbai-mover.html
Titan Industries Ltd. (TTAN)  led declines
among jewelers in Mumbai trading after India’s central bank
tightened gold import rules prompting at least four brokerages
including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to cut ratings on the stock.  Titan  fell  11 percent, poised for the biggest decline since
June 12, to 242.65 rupees as of 1:58 p.m. in Mumbai. The stock
had the biggest percentage decline on the BSE200 Index.
 Tribhovandas Bhimji Zaveri Ltd. (TBZL)  dropped 6.8 percent, while Shree
Ganesh Jewellery House India Ltd. slid 4.7 percent.  The Reserve Bank of India on Aug. 14  said  jewelers need to
make upfront payments for gold imports after an earlier
notification mandated 20 percent of the precious metal bought
from overseas be set aside for exports. The steps will raise
financing costs for jewelers as they’ll have to borrow more to
fund their purchases, CLSA Asia Pacific Markets wrote in a note
yesterday. The brokerage cut their rating to sell from buy.  “Titan will be hit significantly as it’s a major player
which doesn’t export much,” said Vivek Veda and Nitin Mathur,
analysts at Espirito Santo Investment Bank. “Costs for end
consumers will go up and it’ll give greater incentive for
smugglers to bring in gold.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut their rating on Titan to neutral
from overweight. Goldman Sachs lowered their rating on the
Bangalore-based retailer to neutral from buy. Credit Suisse also
cut its rating on the stock to neutral from outperform.  Curbing Imports  India  has raised import duties on the yellow metal three
times this year and enacted further measures to limit the amount
of gold purchased by banks and jewelers. Gold imports surged 87
percent to 383 metric tons in the four months through July from
a year earlier after a slump in bullion prices spurred demand
for jewelry, bars and coins.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram plans to limit
imports to 850 tons in the year ending March 31, compared with
845 tons in 2012-2013.  Consumption in India, which imports almost all the bullion
it needs, accounted for about 20 percent of global demand in
2012, according to data from the World Gold Council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  