-- Jakarta Stocks Fall Most in Six Weeks on Rupiah, Credit Outlook
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-08-16T04:44:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/jakarta-stocks-fall-most-in-six-weeks-on-rupiah-credit-outlook.html
Indonesian stocks declined the most
in six weeks as the rupiah fell to its lowest level in four
years and amid concerns the central bank’s new reserve
requirement rules may slow lending.  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  fell 1.8 percent to 4,601.48 as
of 10:59 a.m. Jakarta time, heading for the steepest decline
since July 8. PT Bank Rakyat  Indonesia , the country’s second-largest lender by assets, fell 4.2 percent and PT Bank Mandiri
declined 2.3 percent. The Jakarta Stock Exchange Finance index
fell 2.2 percent, the  biggest  drag among nine industry groups.  Bank Indonesia yesterday said it will increase the
secondary reserve requirement for lenders to 4 percent from 2.5
percent and said banks with a loan-to-deposit ratio of outside
a range of 78 percent to 92 percent would have to put additional
reserves at the central bank. The range was narrowed from 78
percent to 100 percent previously.  “This could result in slower loan growth,” Hadi Soegiharto, analyst at PT CIMB Securities Indonesia, wrote in a
report yesterday. “The growth of the Indonesian banking sector
remains at risk, particularly from further tightening.”  The central bank left its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged
at 6.50 percent at a policy meeting yesterday.  The rupiah fell 0.2 percent to 10,373 per dollar, its
weakest level since June 2009, after Indonesia’s foreign
reserves dropped to the lowest since 2010 and before data today
that may show the current-account deficit widened to a record.  “By keeping the benchmark rate unchanged, the market is
reading that as a signal that the central bank is prioritizing
growth,” John Rachmat, head of equity research at PT Mandiri
Sekuritas, said by phone today. “That put a lot of pressure on
the currency and probably would put more pressure on bonds and
the equities market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  