-- John Laporte, T. Rowe Price Manager Who Beat Peers, Dies at 68
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-08-18T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/john-laporte-t-rowe-price-manager-who-beat-peers-dies-at-68.html
John H. Laporte, a onetime
Morningstar fund manager of the year who beat three-fourths of
his peers in his 22 years managing T. Rowe Price Group Inc.’s
 New Horizons (PRNHX)  Fund, has died. He was 68.  He died on Aug. 12 at his home in Ruxton,  Maryland , a
suburb of Baltimore, his wife, Andrea Laporte, said in an
interview. The cause was complications from lymphoma.  Known as Jack, Laporte worked at Baltimore-based  T. Rowe
Price (TROW)  from 1976 until his retirement at the end of last year.  From 1987 to 2010 he was lead portfolio manager for small-cap growth portfolios as well as chairman of the investment
advisory committee for New Horizons, one of the firm’s oldest
funds, created by firm founder Thomas Rowe Price Jr. in 1960.
The fund generally invests in companies with market
capitalization of $2.5 billion or less.  Laporte oversaw a quintupling of assets in the fund, to
$5.9 billion, during the two decades he ran it.  “All of us who were fortunate enough to know and work with
Jack are better off for it,”  Brian Rogers , T. Rowe Price’s
chairman and chief investment officer, said in a statement. “We
certainly benefited from his investment acumen, but also from
the example he set as an individual for his high ethics and
standards, patience, curiosity, cooperation, encouragement and
sincere interest in helping us improve.”  After stepping down as head of New Horizons, Laporte
remained active with the firm in a mentoring role until his
retirement in December.  ‘Very Flattered’  Morningstar Mutual Funds, a newsletter published by
Chicago-based Morningstar Inc., named him domestic stock fund
manager of the year after New Horizons returned 55 percent in
1995 compared with 30 percent for the Russell 2000 Index. When
the Baltimore Sun checked in with Laporte about the honor, it
found him “totally surprised” and “very flattered.”  Part of his success in 1995, the Sun  said , came from his
timely decision to reduce the fund’s stake in technology stocks
and move the money into health-care shares.  In a 2003 interview, Laporte said he sought small companies
with earnings growth of at least 15 percent and stuck with his
winners no matter how big the companies got.  “Don’t sell your great companies too early,” Laporte
said. “You want to sell a stock when it’s not doing so well,
when earnings growth slows down or the company hits a wall, not
because it hits an arbitrary number.”  Doubled Assets  His successor at the helm of New Horizons, Henry Ellenbogen, hasn’t dropped the torch. The fund had the highest
total return over the past three years and the best risk-adjusted performance among small-cap funds that buy U.S. stocks,
according to the Bloomberg Riskless Return Ranking. As of July
31 it had $13.2 billion in assets, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, more than twice as much as when Laporte left.  Its  top holdings  include Netflix Inc., Regeneron
Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Lumber Liquidators Holdings Inc.  Ellenbogen said Laporte had a positive impact not just on
investors but on the companies seeking their money.  “If a small company doesn’t have the right people managing
it, and the right culture, it’s basically impossible for it to
become a large company, and Jack was a perceptive evaluator of
management,” Ellenbogen said in an e-mail. “And he could build
relationships with management teams. He was a great example of
how to do that positively, but also in a way where, obviously,
we are acting as fiduciaries for our shareholders.”  Mock Portfolio  John Henry Laporte Jr. was born on July 26, 1945, in  West
Orange ,  New Jersey , and raised in nearby  Short Hills , the son of
John Laporte and the former Donna Bailey. He said he developed a
taste for investing as a child when his father, an accountant,
had the family select and track a mock stock portfolio.  Laporte made his first real stock purchase -- four shares
of AT&T -- when he was 12.  He attended  Princeton University  for his undergraduate
work, receiving a degree in political science in 1967. Two years
later he received a master’s in business administration from
 Harvard University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  He spent seven years as a research analyst covering
airlines and aerospace at Pershing & Co. in  New York  before
moving to T. Rowe Price in 1976.  As a Princeton alumnus, he served on boards and  established 
the John H. Laporte Jr. Class of 1967 Freshman Seminar in
Finance. He was founding chairman of the  SEED School of
Maryland , a boarding school in Baltimore serving disadvantaged
children in grades 6 to 12. He loved golf, squash, skiing,
snowshoeing and hiking, and coached his sons’ soccer and
baseball teams, his wife said.  He remained a T. Rowe Price investor and followed the
market “like mad,” she said. “He loved nothing more than
sitting at the trading desk.”  Survivors include his wife, the former Andrea Berry; sons
Christopher, 36, and Timothy, 31; and two grandchildren.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  