-- JPMorgan Marketing Downtown’s 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-08-20T13:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/jpmorgan-marketing-downtown-s-1-chase-manhattan-plaza.html
(Corrects  David Rockefeller ’s role at JPMorgan in seventh
paragraph of story published Aug. 16.)  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is seeking to
sell 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, the lower Manhattan tower built by
David Rockefeller in the late 1950s, as the company reduces its
 office space  in the city.  The bank would relocate about 4,000 employees, most of the
people who work in the 60-story skyscraper, to other New York
locations, said  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman. JPMorgan occupies
about half of the space in 2.2 million-square-foot (204,000-square-meter) building, according to  CoStar Group Inc. (CSGP) , a
Washington-based firm that follows office leasing.  An offering of the tower, a city landmark designed by
architect Gordon Bunshaft, would test the  downtown office
market . Shrinking financial companies have left lower Manhattan
landlords with at least 6.3 million square feet of space to
fill, according to data from brokerage Newmark Knight Frank
Grubb. The tower may achieve its highest value as a mixed-use
property, with a hotel, additional retail or apartments added,
said  Dan Fasulo , managing director of Real Capital Analytics
Inc., a New York-based research firm that tracks commercial real
estate sales.  “You could do a department store in the base,” he said.
“It’s a very exciting potential mixed-use opportunity, in my
mind. I think the market will receive it very well.”  The building may fetch at least $600 million, according to
a person with knowledge of the offering. The cost to buyers
would be higher because they would assume any conversion
expenses, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the discussions are private.  2009 Offering  Other tenants include the law firms Milbank Tweed Hadley &
McCloy LLP, with 337,000 square feet, and Hawkins Delafield &
Wood LLP, with 66,000 square feet, according to CoStar.  The tower was once the headquarters of Chase Manhattan
Bank. Rockefeller, as head of the bank’s building committee,
selected the site and oversaw its construction.  Chase bought JP Morgan & Co. in 2001. The building was
offered for sale in 2009 and pulled off the market later that
year, when Manhattan office buildings lost almost 47 percent of
their value in the wake of the credit crisis.  The bank also owns or leases offices at its headquarters at
270 Park Ave., 245 and 277 Park Ave., 4  New York  Plaza downtown,
MetroTech Center in Brooklyn and the Newport office complex in
 Jersey City , New Jersey.  The plan to sell the building was reported earlier today by
Crain’s New York Business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  