-- Keystone XL Seen Harming ‘Quality Night Skies’ Near Parks
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-08-16T18:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/keystone-xl-seen-harming-quality-night-skies-near-parks.html
Building the Keystone XL pipeline
would lead to more manmade light and noise in sparsely populated
regions, which may harm natural resources, wildlife and visitors
to national parks, the U.S. Interior Department said.  In comments submitted to the State Department as part of an
environmental review, Interior warned that developer  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP)  isn’t adequately dealing with risks to “cultural
soundscapes” and “high quality night skies” from disturbances
during construction and from pumping stations  that keep oil
flowing along the route.  “The cumulative effects of the project could adversely
impact the quality of the night skies and the overall photic
environment,” Willie R. Taylor, director of the office of
environmental policy at Interior, wrote in a letter on April 29.
The State Department posted the letter on its website this week
as it releases 1.2 million comments received about the project.  The agency is reviewing Keystone, which would transport
bitumen from  Alberta  to refineries along the U.S. Gulf of
 Mexico , because it would cross an international border. A final
report on the pipeline’s environmental impact may be issued as
early as September. After that, the department will conduct a
90-day review to determine if Keystone is in the national
interest, pushing a final decision to late this year or 2014.  Pipeline Opponents  Environmental groups oppose the pipeline, citing the
contributions of Alberta oil production to  climate change  and
the risk of oil spills along the more than 875-mile (1,408-kilometer) route from  Canada  to  Steele City , Nebraska.  In separate comments in April, the Environmental Protection
Agency urged the State Department to analyze the costs of
greenhouse-gas emissions by refining the  tar sands  into fuel.
Greenhouse-gas emissions from refining  oil sands  are 17 percent
greater than conventional crude oil, the agency said.  The Interior Department focused on the pipeline’s impact on
U.S. national parks and other public lands managed by the
agency, and the comments underscore the level of scrutiny the
project is getting as part of the review.  The pipeline won’t pass near the most-visited parks, such
as Yellowstone in  Wyoming . It will cross the popular Lewis &
Clark National Historic Trail, which stretches across 11 states,
and the Missouri National Recreational River in  South Dakota  and
Nebraska, which combined draw an average more than 386,000
visitors a year, according to park service data.  Niobrara Light  Interior also mentions impacts to the  Niobrara National
Scenic River  in northern  Nebraska , which gets about 68,000
visitors a year. The impact of the ambient light from the
pipeline could be felt far from parks adjacent to the project,
Interior said in its letter.  In addition to the impacts of light and noise, the
department said it “has concerns with the proposed pipeline’s
stream and wetland crossings,” especially those near parks,
such as the Missouri recreation area.  To curb interference from noise and light, TransCanada
should employ “mitigation measures such as shielded, full-cutoff lighting, timers, and motion sensitive switches,” and
use “the minimum amount of illumination” for tasks along the
pipeline,’’ according to the comments.  The Interior Department’s comments faulted the
environmental review’s recommendation for noise near pump
stations to meet the level common in communities rather than for
a park environment “where many people go to get away from the
clamor of everyday life.”  In addition, “we recommend further information and
analysis of the cumulative effects of noise on visitors and
natural resources be conducted,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  