-- Kutcher’s ‘Jobs’ Beats Sony to Cinemas With Film on Icon
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-08-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/kutcher-s-jobs-beats-sony-to-cinemas-with-film-on-icon.html
Ashton Kutcher  is teaming with the
upstart studio Open Road Films to beat bigger rival  Sony Corp. (6758) 
to theaters with a biopic on  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  co-founder Steve Jobs.  Getting there first is no guarantee of success. “Jobs,”
featuring Kutcher in the title role and made for an estimated
$8.5 million, opens today amid criticism that its portrayal
isn’t factual. Sony’s version, based on Walter Isaacson’s best-selling biography and directed by Academy Award winner  Aaron Sorkin , doesn’t have a release date.  “We made a movie, a broad entertainment offering, not a
documentary,” Tom Ortenberg, chief executive officer of Open
Road, said in an interview. “The important thing is to get the
spirit right, and I believe we’ve done that with this film.”  “Jobs” is opening in about 2,400 theaters. The 122-minute
film focuses on the computer pioneer’s early years as a college
dropout and co-founder of Apple. It drew on public records and a
vast catalog of television and print interviews with Jobs,
Ortenberg said. The picture comes almost two years after the
tech icon’s death and ahead of the planned Sony feature.  “For a man who could be very private, Steve’s life was
also very public,” Ortenberg said. “There was a wealth of
information to draw from.”  The film opens with Kutcher, clad in Jobs’s trademark black
turtleneck, introducing the iPod in 2001. It then backtracks to
the 1970s, when Apple co-founder  Steve Wozniak  (Josh Gad) shows
Jobs a prototype of a personal computer he built.  Woz’s Criticism  The movie, directed by Joshua Michael Stern, whose credits
include the 2008 Kevin Costner film “Swing Vote,” chronicles
the rise of Apple, the ouster of Jobs by the computer maker’s
board, his life away from Apple and his eventual return as CEO,
sparking one of the greatest comeback stories in the history of
corporate America.  In an interview with  CNN ’s Piers Morgan, Wozniak criticized
scenes from “Jobs” as being fictional, saying one was
“absolutely the opposite” of what actually happened. Bloomberg
News critic  Greg Evans  wrote that the movie is “pedestrian,
inelegant.”  “Hollywood might someday design a sleek, prestige biopic
worthy of Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs ,” Evans wrote. “For now,
he’s gotten a Dell.”  Ortenberg said the filmmakers had to walk a tightrope
between entertainment and true events.  Along with being out first, Ortenberg said Open Road is
banking on audience interest in Jobs’s life and the star-power
of Kutcher, a real-life venture investor and actor who plays a
tech billionaire on CBS’s “Two and a Half Men.”  Opening Weekend  Weekend sales of $7 million to $8 million would be a
success, Ortenberg said in an interview in Bloomberg’s Los
Angeles office. Boxoffice.com, an industry forecaster, predicts
revenue of about $10 million for the three days and $27 million
over the film’s full domestic run.  The weekend tally would put “Jobs” behind two other new
releases opening today. “Kick-Ass 2,” a  Universal Pictures 
feature about a costumed high-school hero who joins a team of
crime fighters, is forecast to lead the U.S. and Canadian box
office with a weekend total of $24 million, according to
Boxoffice.com.  “Lee Daniels’ The Butler,” Weinstein Co.’s film about an
African-American who served in the White House under eight U.S.
presidents, is projected to open in second at $22.5 million.  Digital Only  Owned by AMC Theatres and  Regal Entertainment Group (RGC) , Los
Angeles-based Open Road distributes low-budget movies like
“Jobs” that have the potential to draw a wide audience. They
started the company in March 2011 to fill what they saw as a gap
in the market.                            Regal, based in Knoxville,  Tennessee , and controlled by
billionaire  Philip Anschutz , fell 2.3 percent to $18.48
yesterday in  New York . AMC is owned by Dalian, China-based
Dalian Wanda Group Corp., a closely held conglomerate.  As a tribute to Jobs, Ortenberg said, Open Road is
releasing the film only in digital format, bypassing 35-millimeter prints. That limited the number of theaters where the
movie could play to those with digital projectors, cutting out
some smaller operators.  Open Road booked a slightly higher concentration of
theaters than usual in technology hubs such as  San Francisco , he
said.  While Open Road holds only U.S. rights to “Jobs,” the
movie also premieres this weekend in India and Singapore,
according to Imdb.com. By Nov. 8, it will be released in
countries including France, Australia, South Korea, Mexico,  Hong
Kong , Italy, Brazil and Sweden.  After theaters, the film will have a home-video release
before becoming available on  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s streaming service
for 18 months starting early next year, Ortenberg said.  “I’d like to think Steve Jobs would have been a fan of the
film,” he said. “At the very least, I believe he would have
been a fan of Ashton Kutcher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Golum at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net  