-- Nationwide Cut by Standard & Poor’s on Real Estate Loans
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-08-16T16:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/nationwide-cut-by-standard-poor-s-on-real-estate-loans.html
Nationwide Building Society, the
U.K.’s largest customer-owned lender, had its credit rating cut
by Standard & Poor’s, which said impairments on commercial real
estate loans are hurting its efforts to bolster capital.  The ratings company lowered Nationwide’s long-term
counterparty credit rating to A from A+ and its junior
subordinated debt, or permanent interest-bearing shares, to BBB-from BBB, S&P said in a statement today.  Nationwide’s impairment charges for commercial real estate
loans totaled more than 450 million pounds ($703 million) in the
year through April. The lender said last month it could comply
with demands from regulators to bolster capital without turning
to investors, unlike competitor  Barclays Plc (BARC) , which is preparing
to raise 5.8 billion pounds in a rights offering.  “We expect high impairment charges in its commercial real
estate loan book to persist for the next two years,” S&P said.
“These impairment charges have hindered Nationwide’s internal
capital generation.”  The Prudential Regulation Authority is forcing Nationwide
to meet a 3 percent leverage ratio, meaning it must hold 3
pounds of equity capital for every 100 pounds of assets, by the
end of 2015. Had the lender been forced to meet the target
immediately, it would have needed to raise 1.8 billion pounds of
capital, Moody’s Investors Service said last month.  Nationwide will meet the PRA’s target by retaining profit,
the Swindon, England-based lender said last month. It may also
sell core capital deferred shares, which would pay a portion of
profit to investors while keeping the firm customer-owned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  