-- Natural Gas Declines on Outlook for Milder Eastern U.S. Weather
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-08-16T19:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/natural-gas-futures-rise-third-day-on-lower-stockpile-gains.html
Natural gas futures dropped in  New
York  for the first time in three days on speculation that milder
late-August weather may reduce demand for the power-plant fuel.  Gas fell 1.5 percent as forecasters including MDA Weather
Services in Gaithersburg,  Maryland , said temperatures from the
Northeast into  Ohio  will be seasonal or lower from Aug. 26
through Aug. 30. Earlier forecasts were for hotter weather. Gas
stockpile gains have exceeded five-year averages in nine of the
past 11 weeks amid lower fuel use.  “This second half of the summer, especially August, has
been pretty cool,” said Bob Yawger, director of the futures
division at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York. “That has
been the distinguishing factor that has allowed us to ratchet up
the storage.”  Natural gas for September delivery declined 5.1 cents to
settle at $3.368 per million British thermal units on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . Trading volume was 44 percent below
the 100-day average at 2:40 p.m. The futures rose 4.3 percent
this week, capping the first gain in four weeks. Gas is up 0.5
percent this year.  The discount of September to October futures widened 0.1
cent to 2.5 cents. October gas traded 39.5 cents below the
January contract, compared with 38.9 cents yesterday.  Gulf Weather  A ragged collection of rain showers off the Yucatan
Peninsula may develop into a weak tropical system as it moves
over the  Gulf of Mexico , prompting some energy operations to
evacuate non-essential personnel. The low-pressure area in the
southwestern Gulf has a 50 percent chance of becoming tropical
in the next two days, according to the U.S. National Hurricane
Center in Miami.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s Manta Ray offshore natural gas gathering
company evacuated non-essential personnel from two platforms off
 Louisiana  on Aug. 14. The Destin gas pipeline, owned by
subsidiaries of  BP Plc (BP/) , reported similar evacuations at Gulf
pipelines operated by BP, though gas will continue to flow as
long as weather conditions permitted.  The hurricane center is also tracking  Tropical Depression
Erin , which is about 530 miles west of the Cape Verde Islands.
Erin is expected to drift through the mid-Atlantic far from land
before breaking up sometime next week.  Based on the most recent hurricane forecasts, “there’s not
really anything to hang your hat on as far as natural gas is
concerned,” Yawger said. The outlook that Erin will dissipate
removes some support from prices seen earlier in the week, he
said.  Gulf Production  Platforms in the Gulf will produce 5.7 percent of U.S. gas
this year, according to EIA estimates.  The high temperature in  New York City  on Aug. 26 may be 71
degrees Fahrenheit (22 Celsius), 10 below normal, and  Chicago ’s
reading may be 3 lower than the average at 78 degrees, according
to AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,  Pennsylvania .  Power plants 
account for 32 percent of U.S. gas use, Energy Information
Administration data show.  Gas inventories last week expanded by 65 billion cubic feet
last week to 3.006 trillion, above the five-year average of 42
billion for the seven days, according to the EIA, the
statistical arm of the Energy Department. A stockpile  surplus  to
the average widened to 1.5 percent from 0.7 percent the previous
week.  The number of  rigs drilling  for gas rose by 2 this week to
388,  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  data today showed. The count is up 11
percent since dropping to an 18-year low of 349 in the week
ended June 21.  Production Rises  Gas production  is headed for the sixth consecutive annual
gain as drilling technologies, such as hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, have made it more economic to tap fuel trapped in
shale rock. Output will climb 1 percent to average 69.89 billion
cubic feet a day as new wells come online such as in the
Marcellus shale in the Northeast, the EIA said Aug. 6 in its
Short-Term Energy outlook.  October $4.20 calls were the most active options in
electronic trading. They were 0.2 cent lower at 0.6 cent per
million Btu on volume of 1,773 at 3:15 p.m. Calls accounted for
44 percent of trading volume. Implied volatility for at-the-money options expiring in September was 30.96 percent at 3:15
p.m., compared with 32.15 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  