-- Natural Gas Futures Gain in Survey on Hotter Weather Outlook
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-08-16T11:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/natural-gas-futures-gain-in-survey-on-hotter-weather-outlook.html
Natural gas futures may advance next
week on forecasts for hotter weather that would stoke demand for
the power-plant fuel.  Eight of 15 analysts, or 53 percent, predicted that futures
will increase on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through Aug.
23. Six, or 40 percent, said gas will stay the same and one said
prices will decline. Last week, 62 percent of participants said
gas would fall.  The Northeast and Midwest will see above-normal
temperatures from Aug. 20 through Aug. 24 following cooler
readings this week, said MDA Weather Services in Gaithersburg,
 Maryland . Gas has rebounded 9.4 percent from a six-month low on
Aug. 8 following the warmer outlook and a government report
yesterday that showed a smaller-than-forecast supply gain.  “The weekly injections are beginning to realign with the
five-year average levels,” said Teri Viswanath, director of
commodities strategy at BNP Paribas SA in New York. “This will
likely leave less working gas in storage at the end of the
season than the market expects.”  Natural gas futures climbed 18.9 cents, or 5.9 percent, to
$3.419 per million British thermal units during the first four
days of this week on the Nymex, heading for the first weekly
increase since July 19. The futures are up 2 percent this year.  The high in  Boston  on Aug. 23 may be 89 degrees Fahrenheit
(32 Celsius), 10 above normal, according to  AccuWeather Inc.  in
 State College ,  Pennsylvania . Temperatures in  Kansas City ,
 Missouri  may reach 93 Fahrenheit, 5 higher than average.  Power Plants  Power generation accounts for 32 percent of U.S. gas
demand, according to the Energy Information Administration, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm.  U.S. inventories  rose 65 billion cubic feet in the week
ended Aug. 9 to 3.006 trillion, the EIA said yesterday. Analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg predicted a gain of 70 billion.
The five-year average increase for the period is 42 billion. A
 supply surplus  to the average widened to 1.2 percent from 0.7
percent the previous week.  The EIA expects stockpiles to peak at 3.8 trillion cubic
feet before the start of the next heating season, the peak
demand period for U.S. gas, according to the government’s  Short-Term Energy Outlook  released Aug. 6.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex gas futures will probably
rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This week’s
results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  8      1      6  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  