-- New York Hunts Investor-Protection Head After Minor Exits
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-08-16T20:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/new-york-hunts-investor-protection-head-after-minor-exits.html
New York  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman is looking for a new head of his investor-protection bureau after its chief, Marc B. Minor, resigned about
two weeks ago.  Minor, 45, said in a phone interview he’s moving to Boston
and looking for work because his wife, a retail executive, got a
new job there. He joined Schneiderman’s office in 2011 from the
New Jersey attorney general’s office, where he led its bureau of
securities, according to a statement at the time.  “The attorney general appreciates Marc’s hard work in
leading the investor-protection bureau for more than two
years,” Matt Mittenthal, a spokesman for Schneiderman, said in
an e-mail. New York is interviewing candidates to replace Minor,
he said.  Minor said he worked on a  task force  set up on orders of
President  Barack Obama  last year to coordinate prosecutions of
fraudulent mortgage activity that contributed to the financial
crisis. Schneiderman brought the group’s first case in October,
suing  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  on claims that Bear Stearns deceived
mortgage-bond investors about defective loans backing
securities. JPMorgan, which bought Bear Stearns in March 2008,
has contested the case.  Minor said he also was involved in New York’s 2011 suit
against Bank of New York Mellon Corp. that accused it of
defrauding clients in currency trades. The firm has called the
claims unwarranted.  He ran New Jersey’s securities division from 2009 to 2011,
according to the New York attorney general’s statement. Before
that, he worked for the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority,
the Wall Street-funded group that regulates the brokerage
industry.  The JPMorgan case is People of the  State of New York  v.
J.P. Morgan Securities, 451556-2012, New York State  Supreme
Court  (Manhattan). The BNY case is People of the State of New
York v. Bank of New York Mellon Corp., 114735-2009, New York
state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  