-- New York City Appeals Rulings Attacking Stop-And-Frisk
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-08-16T20:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/new-york-city-appeals-rulings-attacking-stop-and-frisk.html
New York City  is appealing a federal
judge’s findings that its police department violated the
constitutional rights of minorities with its stop-and-frisk
search tactic, according to filings in Manhattan federal court.  The city filed notices of appeal today of rulings by U.S.
District Judge Shira Scheindlin in which she assailed the
department policy and appointed an independent monitor to
oversee changes.  New York  Mayor  Michael R. Bloomberg  said after
the rulings Aug. 12 that the city benefited from the policy and
that the judge “ignored the real-world realities of crime.”  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, parent of  Bloomberg News .  “The mayor, the police commissioner and the city vowed to
press forward immediately with an appeal -- and we have done
so,” Michael Cardozo, the head of the New York’s law
department, said in a statement today. “The safety of all  New
Yorkers  is at stake.”  Scheindlin issued her rulings in two cases after overseeing
a nine-week trial that ended May 20.  The stop-and-frisk practice as carried out by the city’s
police “is fundamentally inconsistent with the law of equal
protection and represents a particularly disconcerting
manifestation of indifference,” Scheindlin wrote in one of the
opinions, describing each stop as a “demeaning and humiliating
experience.”  Reasonable Suspicion  One of the lawsuits was filed by four black men who claimed
they were stopped and questioned or frisked by police without
reasonable suspicion. Another was filed by people stopped by
police who were patrolling private residential buildings under a
department program.  Police have engaged in more than 4 million stop-and-frisks
in the past nine years, plaintiffs alleged. At least 80 percent
of the people stopped were black or Latino, according to court
papers.  In an Aug. 12 press conference, Bloomberg said the practice
had taken 8,000 guns off the streets over the past decade,
helping drive down murders in New York to an average of one a
day from six daily in 1990, and accounting in part for a 50
percent drop in homicides since he took office 12 years ago.  “There is just no question that stop-question-frisk has
saved countless lives,” Bloomberg said in the press conference.
“And we know that most of the lives saved, based on the
statistics, have been black and Hispanic young men.”  The city plans to ask the judge to delay the effects of her
rulings during the appeal, according to Cardozo.  The case is Floyd v. City of New York, 08-cv-01034, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  