-- Nintendo, Weyerhaeuser, AF: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-08-16T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/nintendo-weyerhaeuser-af-intellectual-property.html
Nintendo Co. won a 50 percent
reduction of the $30.2 million in damages a jury awarded to a
former  Sony Corp. (6758)  employee who claimed the company’s 3DS game
and video player infringed his 3-D technology patent.  “The jury’s damages award was at least twice as large as
the amount a reasonable jury could have awarded based on the
evidence presented at trial and thereby must have involved the
degree of excessive speculation that shocks the judicial
conscience,” U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan  said
in a decision Aug. 14.  The judge gave plaintiff Seijiro Tomita and his company the
choice of accepting $15.1 million in damages or undertaking a
new trial on damages.  Tomita, who worked for Sony for almost 30 years before
quitting in 2002, sued Nintendo in June 2011. That year
Nintendo, the world’s biggest video-game console maker,
introduced the 3DS, which allows users to see 3-D images without
special glasses.  In dispute is patent 7,417,664, which was issued in August
2008 and covers a form of a stereoscopic image picking up and
display system.  Joe Diamante, a lawyer for Tomita, didn’t immediately
respond to a call to his office after regular business hours
seeking comment on the judge’s ruling.  “Nintendo will appeal the jury’s verdict and reduced
damages award,” Charlie Scibetta, senior director of Nintendo
of America’s corporate communications, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The case is Tomita Technologies USA LLC v.  Nintendo Co. (7974) ,
11-cv-04256, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  Sony Seeks Patent on Camera Button With Biometric Sensors  Sony Corp.’s Sony Mobile Communications unit has applied
for a patent on a camera button that can read and communicate
the user’s vital signs.  Application  20130182144  covers a camera button with
integrated sensors. The Japanese technology company said it
would be used in a mobile communications device, and the sensors
could detect and communicate body temperature, pulse rate,  blood
pressure , respiratory rate, blood oxygen level and skin
conductance.  In addition to potential medical uses, the technology could
be used to make the tagging of photos and movies more personal,
Sony said.  A Swedish inventor is listed on the application, which was
filed in November, according to the database of the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Weyerhaeuser Sues Louisiana-Pacific Over ‘Solidguard’  Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY) , the Federal Way, Washington-based forest-products company, sued competitor Louisiana-Pacific Corp. for
trademark infringement.  The lawsuit, filed Aug. 13 in federal court in Nashville,
 Tennessee , is related to Weyerhaeuser’s “Strandguard”
trademark, used with its zinc-borate-treated laminated strand
lumber.  Weyerhaeuser objects to Louisiana-Pacific’s use of
“Solidguard” for its laminated strand lumber. The public is
likely to be confused and suffer injury as a result, according
to the complaint.  The company sent Nashville-based Louisiana-Pacific a cease-and-desist letter and received in response a letter rejecting
the demand, according to court papers.  Weyerhaeuser asked the court to bar Louisiana-Pacific’s use
of “Solidguard” or similar names, for an order for the recall
and destruction of all allegedly infringing promotional
material, and awards of money damages, litigation costs and
attorney fees.  The company said that in light of Louisiana-Pacific’s
alleged “deception of consumers and violation of Weyerhaeuser’s
rights,” it requested extra damages to punish the Tennessee-based company for its actions.  Louisiana Pacific didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment on the suit.  The case is Weyerhaeuser NR Co. v.  Louisiana-Pacific Corp. (LPX) ,
13-cv-00805, U.S. District Court, Middle District of Tennessee
(Nashville).  Red Bull Says Redwell Name Acceptable for Non-Energy Drinks  Red Bull  GmbH, the Austrian maker of the similarly named
energy drink, said there is no trademark dispute with a small
U.K. craft brewery, the Just-Drinks beverage-industry newsletter
reported.  Redwell Brewing  had said it received a cease-and-desist
letter from Red Bull demanding it change its name because of an
alleged similarity to the energy drink’s name, according to
Just-Drinks.  Red Bull said in a statement to Just-Drinks that the
company has no problems with Redwell’s name, as long as it’s not
used for energy drinks.  Redwell director Mike Baxter told Just-Drinks he hadn’t
heard of a resolution and all the brewery had was the original
cease-and-desist letter.  USPTO Seeks Nominations to Trademark Public Advisory Committee  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office is looking for
potential nominees for its Trademark Public Advisory Committee,
according to a government statement published in the Federal
Register Aug. 13.  Applicants should have “substantial backgrounds and
achievement in finance, management, labor relations, science,
technology and office automation,” according to the statement.  Appointment to the committee of federally registered
lobbyists is to be “discouraged,” the government said.  Applications for the post should be submitted to the USPTO
by Sept. 30.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Agent Provocateur Sues Reality Show Star Over Bikini Design  Agent Provocateur Ltd., a London-based clothing company,
sued a British reality television personality for allegedly
knocking off one of the company’s swimsuit designs, the U.K.’s
 Daily Mail   reported .  The company claims that Kimberly Garner’s “Monaco” two-piece bathing suit is an unauthorized copy of its “Mazzy”
bikini, saying it had evidence of Garner buying a “Mazzy” suit
before her design came out, according to the Daily Mail.  Garner, who appeared on the British television program
“ Made in Chelsea ,” told the newspaper that several designers
have come out with bikinis with extra straps similar to Agent
Provocateur’s and there are many “extremely similar” swimsuits
presently available on the market.  She said she has been designing clothing since childhood,
and that she will defend her Kimberly London designs in court,
according to the Daily Mail.  Georgia Lawyer Seeks Secret Filings in Downloading Case  A  Georgia  lawyer representing a maker of adult films has
asked a federal court to seal future filings in the dispute,
according to an Aug. 13 court filing.  The underlying lawsuit alleges a Georgia resident used the
BitTorrent protocol to download and share some of AF Holdings’
films without authorization.  In his petition to seal future filings, Jacques Nazaire of
Kennesaw, Georgia, said that the case has generated “much
unneeded attention” on the Internet. He filed as exhibits a
number of such articles and said that they have “created an
embarrassment, misleading characterizations and perhaps an
unsafe environment for plaintiff’s counsel and third parties.”  Nazaire told the court that he wasn’t criticizing the
authors of the press releases and postings and realized that
they were “meant to be humorous and not spiteful.”  Nevertheless, he argued, “those not familiar with this
case may misinterpret said postings.” This could lead to
“anger by those not quite familiar with the case,” he said.  Nazaire said in a May 9 filing that the court shouldn’t
give deference to a ruling in similar case in a  California 
federal court. California has “different laws than Georgia, a
different governor than Georgia, a different legislative body
than Georgia, different business needs than Georgia and
different views than Georgia,” and a decision in a California
court “cannot serve as a mandate for Georgia,” he said.  He argued that just as California’s legalization of same-sex marriage doesn’t make similar marriages legal in Georgia, if
Georgia attorneys were required to follow the order by a
California court, they would be negatively affected.  In that case the judge awarded the defendant about $22,500
in litigation costs and attorney fees after AF dismissed the
case. He said that AF’s conduct in the case made a strong
argument for awarding attorney fees as a deterrent to plaintiffs
who filed cases to generate revenue through coerced settlements
and suits rather than to protect copyrighted works.  That case is AF Holdings LLC v. Doe, 12-02396, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California ( San Francisco ).
The Georgia case is AF Holdings LLC v. Patel, 12-cv-00262, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Georgia (Gainesville).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  