-- Norquist Says Obama to Take Health Delays, Avoid Shutdown
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-08-17T18:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/norquist-says-obama-to-take-health-delays-avoid-shutdown.html
Anti-tax advocate  Grover Norquist 
predicted that President  Barack Obama  will agree to delay
implementation of the bulk of his health-care law set to take
effect on Oct. 1 and avoid a government shutdown.  “They’ve been delaying whole sections of it, again and
again and again,” Norquist, president of Washington-based
Americans for  Tax Reform , said on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend. “It’s
going to be increasingly difficult for the White House” not to
delay other parts of the law.  “It wouldn’t be a complete embarrassment to say, ‘We’re
going to let everyone have a year,’” Norquist said, dismissing
talk of blocking funding for the measure Obama signed in 2010.  “I think he’d rather give you his liver than do that,”
Norquist said of the chances Obama would agree to the defunding
push. So I don’t think that’s an option.”  While some Republicans led by Senators Ted Cruz of  Texas 
and  Mike Lee  of Utah are attempting to shut down the government
if Congress doesn’t stop  financing  the Affordable Care Act, the
real battle is about stalling its implementation, Norquist said.  The Obama administration already has delayed a requirement
that some employer-provided health insurance plans cap
employees’ out-of-pocket costs, and a mandate that larger
companies offer health insurance. Federal regulators also put
off the annual limit on costs that patients must pay above what
their insurance covers.  Insurance Exchanges  Yet the White House opposes other delays in a law aimed at
providing health insurance for millions of Americans who lack
coverage, with newly created insurance exchanges set to begin
enrolling people in October for coverage starting Jan. 1.  Obama focused on the law in his weekly radio and  Internet 
address today, saying “we’re well on our way to fully
implementing” it. He also criticized congressional Republicans
he said are “working hard to confuse people, and making empty
promises that they’ll either shutdown the health-care law or, if
they don’t get their way, they’ll shut down the government.”  These Republicans, he said, “seem to believe that if they
can gum up the works and make this law fail, they’ll somehow be
sticking it to me. But they’d just be sticking it to you.”  A number of Republican leaders, including 2012 presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney , have warned that any effort to defund the
law or shut down the government is risky politics. Health
analysts say it isn’t practical to defund the law because many
of the contracts to private companies involved in its
implementation will go forward regardless.  Republican Address  In today’s Republican radio and Internet address,
Representative Shelley Moore Capito of  West Virginia  called on
Obama to support a House-passed bill to delay the law’s
individual mandate, a linchpin of the measure that requires most
Americans to carry health insurance.  Citing the postponement of other provisions, Capito said
delaying the individual mandate “would only be fair.”  Norquist said Republicans in Congress should attach a
provision to delay the law’s implementation to legislation to
finance the government for the  federal budget  cycle that starts
Oct. 1, or attach that delay to a bill to increase the nation’s
 borrowing  limit, which will be necessary sometime in November.  “Then the president decides whether he wants to shut the
government down,” he said. “I tend to think there won’t be a
government shutdown.”  Sequestration Issue  Norquist, an influential voice among anti-tax Republicans,
also said Republicans won’t yield on the sequestration of
federal spending that has limited defense and other areas of the
government. The 10-year budget plan is the only tool in place to
keep a check on growing government spending, he said.  He said that lawmakers complaining that sequestration is
impairing national security -- who include Republican Senators
 John McCain  of  Arizona  and  Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina  --
are out of touch with the party’s prevailing view.  Senate Democrats want to replace the automatic, across-the-board reductions with a mix of spending cuts and  tax revenue .
House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , has said
Congress would need to find “significant cuts” to replace the
sequester, and that his party also would want changes in
entitlement programs such as Medicare and Social Security.  The White House Office of Management and Budget, which
enforces the spending cuts, has projected the caps in 2014 would
be $967.4 billion for security and non-security spending unless
the sequester is repealed.  Immigration Debate  On immigration policy, with Congress returning from recess
in September to resume debate over a measure that has cleared
the Senate, Norquist predicted that the Republican-led House
will ultimately pass legislation that includes a pathway to
citizenship for an estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants
in the U.S.  “Within the next nine to 12 months, I believe, yes, that
you’ll get a bill that has serious border security,” an
expanded version of a guest-worker program and a pathway to
citizenship, said Norquist. These elements are part of the
Senate bill.  The political consequences for Republicans are too great
for the legislative effort to fail, he said.  “It would be unwise for the modern  Republican Party  to
come across as hostile to immigration,” he said. “That has
been the losing position in American history for 200 years.”  The Senate bill that passed in June, with support of 14
Republicans and all of the chamber’s Democrats, represents the
most significant rewrite of  immigration  law in a generation.
House leaders have said they won’t take up the Senate version,
choosing to instead pass piecemeal immigration-related measures.  2016 Prospects  Republicans have a number of strong potential 2016
presidential candidates, said Norquist, especially Wisconsin
Governor  Scott Walker .  He’s “done incredible things,” which
include taking on “the labor union bosses,” Norquist said.
Walker also “has cut spending, has been pro-growth,” he said.  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , who has rankled some
Republicans by supporting Obama on federal hurricane funding
among other issues, would also be a strong contender if he vowed
not to raise taxes, said Norquist.  Christie has refused to sign a Norquist-created pledge not
to increase federal levies.  As for Wisconsin Representative  Paul Ryan , the party’s 2012
vice presidential candidate and chairman of the House Budget
Committee, Norquist said he expects him to continue serving in
the legislative chamber.  “He’s young enough, he can run for president any time over
the next 20 years,” Norquist said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  