-- NSA Defends Spying Amid Anger Over Privacy Violations
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-08-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/nsa-says-it-takes-privacy-violations-seriously-on-spying.html
The National Security Agency
defended its surveillance programs yesterday as U.S. lawmakers
demanded tighter controls in response to an audit showing
privacy rules were broken thousands of times.  The internal audit showing more than 2,700 violations
involving NSA surveillance of Americans and foreigners “is just
the tip of a larger iceberg,” Democratic Senators Ron Wyden of
Oregon and Mark Udall of  Colorado  said in a joint statement.  The May 2012 audit showed the thousands of violations
occurred over a one-year period, the  Washington  Post said,
citing documents provided by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden. The disclosure added to calls by lawmakers for change
when Congress returns in September, in what may become the
biggest U.S. rewrite of intelligence programs since the
aftermath of the 2001 terrorist attacks.  John DeLong, the agency’s compliance director, said cases
of intentional wrongdoing were rare and that none of the errors
cited in the audit were made on purpose.  “People need to understand that these are not willful
violations, they are not malicious,” DeLong told reporters on a
conference call yesterday.  President  Barack Obama  has sought to assure the public that
agency programs that collect telephone-calling records, e-mails
and other data don’t violate constitutional rights and are
adequately overseen by Congress and a secret federal court.  Shows ‘Monitoring’  “The documents demonstrate that the NSA is monitoring,
detecting, addressing and reporting compliance incidents,”  Josh Earnest , a White House spokesman, said yesterday in a statement
on the disclosure of the audit.  The violations are “what happens when you have secret
laws, no meaningful oversight and people in charge who think the
Constitution wasn’t written for them,” Representative Justin Amash, a Michigan Republican, said yesterday on Facebook Inc.’s
social-network website.  The incidents, even if inadvertent, show “a lack of
sufficient respect for  privacy rights  and other constitutionally
protected liberties” by the agency, Senator  Richard Blumenthal ,
a Connecticut Democrat and a Judiciary Committee member, said in
an interview.  Blumenthal introduced legislation this month that would
overhaul the secret court that oversees NSA compliance with the
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.  Impermissible Level  “If these noncompliance issues were occurring with this
frequency and severity in a civilian-court setting, judges would
be hammering prosecutors and police and perhaps even imposing
contempt of court at a certain point,” Blumenthal said.  Wyden and Udall, who both serve on the Senate intelligence
committee, said, “the public deserves to know more about the
violations of the secret court orders that have authorized the
bulk collection of Americans’ phone and e-mail records.”  DeLong said the number of incidents cited in the audit was
misleading. The audit showed fewer than 100 violations of the
agency’s authority from database queries over the first three
months in 2012.  DeLong said that’s out of 20 million such
queries NSA analysts make every month.  “We’re talking parts per million,” he said.  The errors are detected because the NSA actively looks for
them, closely monitoring the work of thousands of analysts
automatically through their computers and encouraging employees
to report mistakes themselves, DeLong said.  Some of the errors may be the result of the large volume of
data being monitored, retired Admiral Dennis Blair, the former
Director of National Intelligence, said by telephone.  Not ‘Trampling’  “I don’t want to sound like an apologist because I’m
not,” Blair said. “When there were similar instances when I
was director, I was exasperated by the mistakes, but nothing
caused me concern that we were routinely and purposefully
trampling on the rights of Americans in our zeal to catch
terrorists.”  In June, Snowden, who faces U.S. espionage charges and has
been granted temporary asylum in  Russia , exposed a program under
which the NSA collects telephone records on millions of
Americans and stores the information in a database that can be
searched. He also revealed a program that monitors Internet
communications of suspected foreign terrorists by obtaining data
from companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  under secret court orders.  The internal audit counted 2,776 violations in the
preceding 12 months related to the collection, dissemination,
access and retention of data by the agency under laws and
executive orders covering surveillance of Americans or
foreigners in the U.S.  Human Error  The majority of violations of the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Act -- 63 percent -- were attributed to human
error. Those included inaccurate or insufficient research, lack
of due diligence and typographical mistakes, according to the
audit, which the Post posted on its website.  Some violations occurred because the agency didn’t know a
foreign target had traveled to the U.S., the audit said. The NSA
is required by law to have a warrant to conduct surveillance
inside the country.  The audit dealt only with incidents at the NSA’s Fort
Meade,  Maryland , headquarters outside Washington and other
facilities in the metropolitan area, the Post said.  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat who leads
the Senate intelligence committee, said in a statement that her
panel has been notified of “significant FISA compliance
issues” and “in all such cases, the incidents have been
addressed by ending or adapting the activity.”  Broader Focus  The committee doesn’t receive as many reports on NSA
activities under legal authorities other than the foreign
intelligence act, “but I intend to add to the committee’s focus
on those activities,” the senator said.  Human and technical errors “are unfortunately inevitable
in any organization and especially in a highly technical and
complicated system like NSA,” Republican Representative Mike Rogers of Michigan, chairman of the House intelligence
committee, said in a statement.  Rogers had said on CBS Corp.’s “Face the Nation”
television show on July 28 that there were “zero privacy
violations” in the agency’s collection of phone records. Susan
Phalen, a Rogers spokeswoman, said yesterday in a statement that
Rogers was “referring to willful and intentional violations of
law” and “the disclosed documents demonstrate that there were
no intentional and willful violations.”  DeLong wouldn’t say how many “willful violations” have
occurred when asked by reporters.  Area Code  The most serious breach included the unauthorized
collection of information about more than 3,000 Americans and
holders of green cards, which give permanent resident status to
immigrants, according to the Post.  DeLong said that violation didn’t involve analysts
examining the records, and they were immediately destroyed.  The agency in 2008 also intercepted a “large number” of
calls placed from Washington when a programming error confused
the city’s area code, 202, with 20, the international dialing
code for  Egypt , according to a review that wasn’t distributed to
the agency’s oversight staff, the Post said.  That mistake didn’t provide any metadata the NSA didn’t
already collect under the USA Patriot Act, said a former senior
intelligence official who asked not to be identified discussing
the secret surveillance programs.  Privacy Concerns  The latest disclosure shows the agency is breaking the most
permissive U.S. surveillance law, passed by Congress in 2008,
said Alex Abdo, a national-security lawyer with the  American
Civil Liberties Union  in  New York .  “I don’t think anyone suspected the extent of abuse was
this great,” Abdo said by telephone. “What we’ve been hearing
from government officials including the president is ‘trust the
NSA because it has oversight.’ Now we know that the oversight
mechanism has failed.”  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton , chief judge of the
secret court, said the court “does not have the capacity to
investigate issues of non-compliance,” according to the Post.
It relies on the “accuracy of the information that is provided
to the Court,” he said in the newspaper.  Caitlin Hayden, a spokeswoman for the White House National
Security Council, wouldn’t comment yesterday when asked whether
Obama had been briefed on the agency audit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  