-- NYU President’s Exit Signals Shift From High-Spending Era
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-08-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/nyu-president-s-exit-signals-shift-from-high-spending-era.html
New York  University’s announcement
that President John Sexton will leave in three years could
signal a shift from an era of bold plans and big spending in
U.S. higher education.  Sexton, under fire from the faculty amid criticism of a
campus expansion and college administrators’ pay and perks, will
step down after his term ends in 2016, when he will be 74. The
school will also stop lending hundreds of thousands of dollars
to executives and faculty for vacation homes, the board of
trustees said in a  letter  this week.  Under Sexton, New York University has become symbolic of
colleges’ focus on expansion and prestige with little regard to
cost, and the school’s announcement may suggest the start of a
change, said Richard Vedder, an Ohio University economics
professor. The university costs $64,000 a year to attend, making
it among the most expensive colleges in the nation.  “When they’re asking people for so much money, and they’re
paying increasingly high salaries and perks, it makes donors
angry; it makes students angry,” said Vedder, who directs the
 Center for College Affordability  and Productivity. “I’m hopeful
the move by NYU may be the beginning of a new trend toward
thinking smaller.”  Some faculty members, who have voted no confidence in
Sexton, yesterday reiterated demands that he depart immediately.
In its Aug. 14 letter, NYU’s board said it was “extremely
satisfied with the direction and leadership of the university.”
 John Beckman , an NYU spokesman, said Sexton wasn’t available for
comment.  Home Loans  “NYU is highly sensitive to costs and their impacts,”
Beckman said in an e-mail. “But we also know that our
investments in recruiting and retaining top faculty have
benefitted and strengthened the university enormously.”  NYU has loaned money to professors and administrators --
including Sexton -- for vacation homes in  East Hampton , Fire
Island and elsewhere, the New York Times reported in June.
Sexton owns a house in Fire Island, bought with a $600,000 loan
from an NYU foundation that grew to be $1 million, the paper
reported.  “They were beyond the pale,” Ernest Davis, an NYU
computer science professor, said about the loans. The trustees
“really didn’t have any choice about that. It’s like saying we
will keep our hands out of the cookie jar.”  Earlier this year, Congress scrutinized disclosures that
 Jacob Lew , the new U.S.  Treasury Secretary , received a $685,000
bonus when he left New York University as an administrator and
had $1.5 million in housing loans, some of which were forgiven.  $1.5 Million  In its letter, the board said home loans are designed to
recruit and retain the best faculty in an expensive city. Under
“current university standards,” they will now be restricted
“to primary residences,” trustees said.  Sexton ranks among the highest-paid administrators in
academia, with total compensation of almost $1.5 million. He is
also scheduled to receive a “length of service” bonus of $2.5
million in 2015.  In July, E. Gordon Gee, president of  Ohio State University ,
another high-profile president with a big pay package and perks,
stepped down after making comments about Catholics for which he
later apologized. Gee, who used university funds to pay for
flights on private jets, had total annual pay of $1.9 million.  International Strategy  Sexton, NYU’s president since 2002, has orchestrated the
university’s international strategy that has resulted in branch
campuses in  Abu Dhabi  and  Shanghai , as well as study centers in
 Europe ,  Asia ,  Africa  and  South America . He has also pushed an
expansion plan that would add to NYU’s Greenwich Village campus,
angering faculty and local residents.  Planners hired by NYU initially discussed adding 6 million
square feet, which could have cost $6 billion. NYU is moving
forward with a $1.9 billion, 1.9 million-square-foot expansion,
Beckman said.  In a generation, NYU has transformed itself from a regional
school to an internationally renowned research university,
attracting top students and scholars, Beckman said. During his
tenure, Sexton has more than doubled the school’s endowment and
its financial aid budget, he said. With 44,000 students, NYU is
one of the largest private, non-profit universities in the U.S.  “John Sexton has been an essential force in improving the
university,” said Mitchell Moss, an NYU urban policy professor.
“The university has made vast steps.”  No Confidence  With its big ambitions and endowment of $2.8 billion,
relatively small compared with its rivals,  New York University 
has also faced criticism for leaving students with heavy debts.  Undergraduates pay an average net price -- or cost after
scholarships and grants -- of $36,834 a year -- almost twice the
national average, according to the U.S.  Department of
Education ’s College Affordability and Transparency Center.  In March, 52 percent of the faculty of arts and science
voted that they had no confidence in Sexton, while similar votes
were held by other NYU units. The no-confidence votes resulted
from Sexton’s controversial expansion plans and his exclusion of
the faculty from administrative decisions. The law school
faculty and medical school faculty council gave Sexton votes of
confidence, and the school of social work voted down a no-confidence proposal, Beckman said.  In April, the board of trustees formed a committee to meet
with faculty and other groups to respond to their concerns,
according to the letter.  “It is vital that we establish mechanisms through which
the Board and the constituencies at NYU can communicate with
each other,” the board of trustees said in the letter.  The announcement of Sexton’s departure doesn’t go far
enough, said Jeff Goodwin, an NYU sociology professor.  “A lot of us would like him to go sooner,” Goodwin said.
“We’re disappointed that he’s going to stay on despite five
votes of no confidence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Hechinger  in  Boston  at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net  