-- Thompson & Knight, Barnes & Thornburg: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-08-16T04:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/thompson-knight-barnes-thornburg-business-of-law.html
Thompson & Knight LLP announced that
Patrick F. McManemin joined the firm as a partner in the trial
practice group, along with three other lawyers.  McManemin was previously a partner and co-chairman of the
commercial litigation and antitrust practice group at  Patton
Boggs LLP , Thompson & Knight said in a statement. McManemin and
the group have litigation experience in real estate and
construction, energy, securities, finance and banking, the firm
said.  “The synergies they bring to our strong real estate
capital markets practice and oil and gas practice will enable us
to increase our market share in these spaces,” Emily A. Parker,
Thompson & Knight’s managing partner, said in a statement.  McManemin, who has more than 30 years of experience,
focuses his trial practice on reorganizations and workouts of
troubled and distressed companies, the firm said. He also has
advised senior management and board members on corporate-governance and compliance issues, and avoidance or resolution of
significant disputes in advance of litigation or mediation.  Thompson & Knight has about 330 attorneys and offices in
the U.S., North Africa, and  Europe .  Bingham Adds Tax Partner Brady in Washington Office  Joshua Brady joined Bingham McCutchen LLP’s tax practice as
a partner in  Washington  after working at Ivins, Phillips &
Barker.  He has experience on the taxation of mergers and
acquisitions, distributions, restructurings and corporations
filing consolidated returns.  Bingham has about 1,000 lawyers in 14 offices in the U.S.,
Europe and Asia.  Barnes & Thornburg Adds Insurance Coverage, Technology Partner  Scott N. Godes, a trial lawyer with experience in insurance
coverage and technology, joined Barnes & Thornburg LLP’s
Washington office as a partner in the litigation department and
the policyholder insurance recovery and coverage group.  Godes was previously a co-leader of Dickstein Shapiro LLP’s
cybersecurity insurance coverage initiative and led the
insurance coverage group’s intellectual property practice,
according to Barnes & Thornburg.  He has represented policyholders in declaratory judgment,
breach of contract and bad faith insurance coverage actions,
insurance-related bankruptcies and adversary actions. He has
also litigated and advised clients on insurance coverage for
data breaches and cyber security matters.  Barnes & Thornburg has more than 600 attorneys and other
legal professionals at its U.S. offices.  Haynes & Boone Adds Bruce McNamara in Silicon Valley  Bruce McNamara joined Haynes & Boone LLP’s Silicon Valley
office as a partner in the capital markets and securities
practice group. He was previously at Perkins Coie LLP.   “Bruce’s in-depth knowledge of the corporate landscape in
Silicon Valley will benefit the firm as we continue growth in
 California ,” Greg Samuel, co-chairman of the group, said in a
statement. “He brings with him a wealth of knowledge in cross-border transactions and public offerings.”  McNamara has advised private and public companies, their
directors and board committees. He represents companies in
mergers and acquisitions, capital raising, recapitalizations,
venture financings, joint ventures and other strategic
transactions as well as general corporate matters. He also has
advised on best corporate governance practices and reporting and
disclosure issues, the firm said.  Haynes & Boone has more than 500 attorneys at 12 offices in
the Americas.  Dickinson Wright Adds Two Toronto Partners  Dickinson Wright PLLC added Alan Litwack, formerly of
Miller Thomson LLP, as a partner in the Toronto office.
Corporate lawyer Edward Levitt, formerly of Aird & Berlis LLP,
also joined the Toronto office as a partner  Litwack’s practice focuses on corporate-commercial matters
with an emphasis on mergers and acquisitions, securities and
 capital markets . Levitt has more than 35 years’ experience in
franchising and distribution law.  Dickinson Wright has more than 350 lawyers in the U.S. and
 Canada .  Duane Morris Gets Steven Cowley From Edwards Wildman  Duane Morris LLP announced that it added Steven M. Cowley
to its trial practice group as a partner in  Boston . He joins
from Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP.  Cowley focuses on business litigation, specifically
disputes arising from mergers and acquisitions and other
investment transactions, including shareholder disputes, post-closing disputes, indemnification disputes, corporate
governance, breach of fiduciary duty and D&O claims, the firm
said.  He also has experience in intellectual property litigation
as well as antitrust and unfair trade practices claims.  Duane Morris has more than 700 attorneys in 24 offices in
the U.S., U.K. and  Asia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn ,  New York ,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 