-- On Republican Priorities, Obama May Have a Point
-- B y   L a n h e e   C h e n
-- 2013-08-16T17:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/on-republican-priorities-obama-may-have-a-point.html
President  Barack Obama  has lost
almost all credibility defending the Affordable Care Act: Hiccup
after hiccup have marred its implementation, its taxes and
spending will hurt economic growth, and it will raise consumer
health costs. But Obama may have had a point when he  charged 
last week that Republicans are talking about repealing the law
without saying what should replace it.  Republicans would be wise to debunk the president’s claim
head on. Recently, we have focused almost all of our energy and
effort on the question of who is “purer” or “more
conservative” in the fight to repeal Obamacare. Let’s just
agree that every Republican wants to repeal Obamacare. Now it’s
time to coherently articulate a vision for what should replace
the fundamentally flawed health-care law. A failure to do so
could have electoral consequences in 2014 and beyond.  Republicans aren’t lacking for ideas about what to replace
Obamacare with. Scholars at almost every right-leaning think
tank have presented plans for a patient-centered, market-based
health-care reform. Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin  wrote
legislation in 2009 known as the  Patients’ Choice Act  that would
have enhanced the portability and affordability of private
health insurance, while giving states greater flexibility and
authority to innovate in the Medicaid program. Many of Ryan’s
ideas remain salient in a post-Obamacare world.  And during last year’s presidential campaign,  Mitt Romney ’s
 first policy speech  was a comprehensive set of ideas designed to
replace Obamacare with reforms that would bring down the cost of
health care, reduce the ranks of the uninsured and help those
with pre-existing conditions get access to coverage.  Party Divisions  Despite these ideas, Republicans have avoided the
discussion of what should replace Obamacare because there are
divisions within the party over the best policy approach. There
is broad agreement that cost remains the primary problem, so
policies that speak to this concern -- enabling the interstate
purchase of health insurance, reforming the medical liability
system, and bringing greater transparency to the pricing of
medical procedures -- are broadly popular. Republicans also
agree on changing the existing tax treatment of health care,
which discriminates against those who obtain health insurance on
their own, rather than through employers.  Look beyond these issues, however, and you’ll find
substantial disagreements. Some conservatives, for example,
reject the very notion that expanding access to health insurance
is a priority, while others believe that efforts to cover the
uninsured are both political and policy imperatives. A number of
conservatives, myself included, have  argued for  limited federal
regulatory intervention, coupled with federal funding for state
high-risk pools, to help those with pre-existing medical
conditions get access to health insurance. Others would like
efforts to help those with pre-existing conditions focused
entirely at the state level.  There is also a wonkier, but highly significant, debate
over what kind of tax preference should replace the existing
treatment of health insurance expenses. President  George W. Bush 
proposed that it  be replaced  with a standard deduction that
every American could use to buy health insurance. Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona  proposed during the 2008 presidential campaign
that every American receive a refundable tax credit to defray
the cost of coverage. And Romney favored equalizing the tax
treatment, in part, by extending a deduction to those who
purchased insurance on their own. The ideas may sound similar,
but they have different deficit implications, are targeted at
different groups, and would cover different numbers of
Americans.  Different Approaches  There’s also disagreement about the scope of reform. Some
conservatives would prefer a more incremental approach, where
reforms are enacted piecemeal, while others have argued for a
more comprehensive approach.  These are substantial policy debates, and they suggest the
challenge of getting a majority of Republicans on board with a
single plan to replace Obamacare. But these are debates worth
having, and it’s a result worth achieving. Republican policy
makers must work toward consensus, because while repealing
Obamacare is important, replacing it with policies that will
actually improve our health-care system will be the bigger
accomplishment.  Rather than debating the merits of shutting down the
federal government over funding for Obamacare, Republicans
should be able to respond to President Obama’s outrageous claim
that our party is unified behind “making sure that 30 million
people don’t have health care” with more than just a call to
defund his signature health-care law. We should be able to
present the American people with common sense ideas and positive
alternatives that address Obamacare’s fundamental deficiencies.  (Lanhee Chen is a Bloomberg View columnist and a research
fellow at the  Hoover Institution  at  Stanford University . He was
the policy director of Mitt Romney’s 2012 presidential campaign.
Follow him on Twitter at  @lanheechen .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Lanhee Chen at  lchen301@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Christopher Flavelle at 
 cflavelle@bloomberg.net . 