-- Hong Kong Raises 2013 Growth Outlook on Second-Quarter Spurt
-- B y   A l a n   W o n g
-- 2013-08-16T17:27:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/hong-kong-raises-2013-growth-outlook-after-second-quarter-spurt.html
Hong Kong’s  economy  expanded more
than estimated in the second quarter on  consumer spending  and
investment, prompting the government to raise its forecast for
the full-year expansion.  Gross domestic product rose 0.8 percent in the April-June
period from the previous three months after a 0.2 percent gain
in the first quarter, the government said yesterday. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 10 economists was for a
0.5 percent increase.  A strengthening economy may aid Hong Kong Chief Executive
Leung Chun-ying, whose popularity dropped in July to the lowest
since he took office amid allegations of wrongdoing by members
of his administration and calls for electoral reform. The
government said that growth this year will be between 2.5
percent and 3.5 percent, after in May estimating a gain of
between 1.5 percent in 3.5 percent.  “The risk is still pretty much the external environment
and that includes the Chinese economy, because Hong Kong depends
on them in terms of exports of goods and services,”  Frances Cheung , a senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong,
said before the release. “Hong Kong will do better because
we’re looking for a continued recovery in the  U.S. economy  and
the bottoming out in the Chinese economy.”  Consumers, Infrastructure  The economy expanded 3.3 percent from a year earlier in the
second quarter, the government said, from a revised 2.9 percent
pace in the first three months. The increase exceeded the 3.2
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 17 analysts.  Household spending rose 4.2 percent from a year earlier,
while investment rebounded, partly because of infrastructure
projects, the government said. Merchandise exports were
“lacklustre,” while the  property market  “cooled off” after
measures to curb demand.  Leung’s support rating was the lowest since he took office
in July last year -- 45.1 on a scale of 0 to 100 -- in a survey
of 1,032 people conducted July 22-25 by the University of Hong
Kong’s Public Opinion Program.  Hong Kong’s stock market was closed when the economic data
were released. Earlier, the  Hang Seng Index  slipped 0.1 percent
after U.S. jobs data fueled concern the  Federal Reserve  will
reduce stimulus.  Consumer spending in Hong Kong has been bolstered by an
increase in tourists from China and an unemployment rate that’s
held below 3.6 percent since June 2011. Visitors from the
mainland rose 21 percent in the first half of the year to 18.8
million, accounting for 74 percent of the city’s 25.4 million
arrivals, according to government data.  Home Prices  Home prices have more than doubled since the start of 2009
because of near-record low mortgage rates and an influx of
Chinese buyers, turning the city into the world’s most expensive
place to buy an apartment, according to London-based property
broker  Savills Plc. (SVS)   Li Ka-shing , Asia’s richest man and chairman of  Cheung Kong
Holdings Ltd. (1) , Hong Kong’s second-biggest developer, said Aug. 1
home sales in Hong Kong will continue to be affected by
government measures. His company  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  is
considering selling its ParknShop supermarket operation in Hong
Kong while boosting investment overseas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Wong in Hong Kong at 
 awong478@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  