-- Los Angeles Gasoline Declines to Five-Month Low on High Supplies
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-08-16T19:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/los-angeles-gasoline-declines-to-five-month-low-on-high-supplies.html
Spot gasoline in Los Angeles
weakened to the lowest level against futures since March with
supplies at a four-month high.  The spread widened for the third time in four days.
Stockpiles of California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, climbed 3.4
percent to 5.77 million barrels in the week ended Aug. 9,
according to data from the state Energy Commission. Carbob
gasoline and blendstock inventories in Southern  California  are
near the highest level  in five years .  Carbob in Los Angeles weakened 2.5 cents versus futures
traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange to a discount of 15
cents a gallon, the lowest level since March 12, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg at 2:07 p.m. New York time. Prompt
delivery fell 3.06 cents to $2.8289 a gallon.  The same fuel in San Francisco lost 2 cents to 17 cents a
gallon below futures. The discount for Carbob in San Francisco
versus the gasoline in Los Angeles  narrowed  0.5 cent to 2 cents
a gallon, the smallest in four days.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s 240,000-barrel-a-day Richmond refinery, the
largest in Northern California, started putting feed into a
process unit yesterday, a notice to Contra Costa County
regulators showed. The refinery reported a unit shutdown a day
earlier, a separate filing said.  Conventional gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon , a benchmark for
the U.S. Pacific Northwest, was unchanged against futures at a
discount of 3.5 cents a gallon. Its premium to Los Angeles
Carbob widened 2.5 cents to 11.5 cents a gallon, the biggest in
two weeks.  Portland Diesel  Low-sulfur diesel in Portland was unchanged against ultra-low-sulfur diesel futures on the Nymex at a discount of 4.5
cents a gallon. California-grade, or CARB, diesel in San
Francisco and Los Angeles also held against futures at premiums
of 7 cents and 4 cents, respectively.  Retail gasoline  in California fell 0.7 cent to average
$3.864 a gallon, Heathrow, Florida-based AAA, the nation’s
largest motoring organization, said today on its website.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  of Alaska North Slope crude, Carbob
in Los Angeles and CARB diesel in Los Angeles, narrowed 46 cents
to $11.86 a barrel at 2:10 p.m.  New York  time. The spread, a
rough indicator of refinery profitability, is the smallest in
three days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  