-- Hospitals May Absorb Risk of Insurers’ Debtor Patients
-- B y   S a m u e l   A d a m s
-- 2013-08-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/hospitals-may-pay-for-insurers-debtor-patients-under-obamacare.html
Less than two months before health
exchanges open to the public, hospitals are asking to change a
part of the Affordable Care Act that leaves them at financial
risk for patients who fall behind on their insurance premiums.  The hospitals said in an Aug. 15 letter that the U.S.
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services should reconsider the
way health-insurance exchanges divide the financial
responsibility for delinquent customers. The letter was signed
by the American Hospital Association, the Federation of American
Hospitals, and the Association of American Medical Colleges.  “We are very concerned about our risk for giving
uncompensated care,” Joanne Alig, senior vice president for
policy and research at the Wisconsin Hospital Association, said
in a telephone interview.  The conflict arose when  regulations  written to implement
the core parts of the Affordable Care Act next year created a
90-day grace period before insurers can drop patients who fall
behind on premiums. Insurers balked and the Obama administration
changed the rules so that the financial burden for the first 30
days fell on insurers, while hospitals would carry the  default
risk  for care provided in the remaining 60 days.  “Hospitals are right to be worried,” said  Sheryl Skolnick , an analyst in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , for CRT Capital
Group LLC. The goal of the health law “was for the hospitals to
no longer be the insurer of last resort. There must be some
other solution than putting this on the back of the hospitals.”  ‘Unfair’ Risk  The 2010 Affordable Care Act was designed to eliminate much
of the industry’s unpaid care by expanding health insurance
coverage to at least 25 million Americans who now lack it. The
core parts of that effort -- an expansion of Medicaid programs
and the opening of state-run exchanges that sell government-subsidized plans -- are scheduled to take effect in January.  Changing the rules to shift most of the grace-period
liability from insurers may now leave hospitals without adequate
financial protection.  “The provider will take the patient and probably confirm
with the insurance company that the patient is covered, and
there’s a false sense of security that they’re going to get
paid,” said Amy Gordon, a partner at the law firm McDermott
Will & Emery LLP whose work focuses on health law compliance.
“The provider doesn’t know at the time that someone’s not going
to pay their premium. It’s an unfair transaction because it’s
operating from a false set of facts and circumstances.”  Deadline Approaches  The dispute over a regulation finalized in March 2012 and
set to be applied when health exchanges begin selling plans Oct.
1, adds to concern about whether the Obama administration can
successfully implement the president’s health-care system
overhaul. When asked why hospitals are now raising objections so
close to the rule’s start date, Alig said the industry has been
preoccupied with the numerous other regulations of the $1.3
trillion Affordable Care Act.  “There are pages and pages of federal rules around the
insurance exchanges and everyone’s been trying to wrap their
heads around it,” Alig said. “Some of these details sort of
got put on the back burner as we were dealing with other large
aspects of the ACA. People have been trying to figure out all of
the moving parts in the ACA.”  While the rules require insurers to tell health-care
providers when patients are behind on their premium payments,
the standard for such notifications isn’t rigid enough,
according to Missouri Hospital Association President Herb Kuhn
and Missouri State Medical Association Executive Vice President
Thomas Holloway. They are asking CMS Administrator  Marilyn Tavenner  to revert to the original proposal that would have
insurers shoulder the risk for the entire 90-day grace period.  Doctor Participation  “If the current rules cannot be amended or interpreted in
a more equitable manner, we fear there will be a widespread
reluctance among physicians and other providers to participate
in exchange plans,” Kuhn and Holloway said in a Aug. 12 letter
to Tavenner. “As a result, many patients -- especially those in
underserved areas -- will find it very difficult to find
physicians and other providers willing and able to provide their
care.”  CMS, which is responsible for implementing most of the
health law, declined to comment about the grace-period rule. The
main lobbying group for health insurers, America’s Health
Insurance Plans, also declined to comment.  “The devil’s in the details and no one probably thought
about what happens to the expenses during this grace period,”
Skolnick said. “You’re not seeing widespread participation for
exchange-based products among hospitals. The level of skepticism
and the level of caution are very high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Adams in  New York  at 
 sadams69@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  