-- Mozambique Credit Outlook Cut to Negative by S&P
-- B y   R e n e   V o l l g r a a f f
-- 2013-08-16T15:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/mozambique-credit-outlook-cut-to-negative-by-s-p.html
Mozambique’s credit rating outlook
was cut to negative by  Standard & Poor’s  after the government
revised economic data that signaled a wider current-account gap
than estimated.  The long-term foreign currency rating was held at B+,
Christian Esters, a Frankfurt-based S&P analyst, said in an e-mailed statement today. The level is four notches below
investment grade and on par with the  Dominican Republic .  Fitch
Ratings  raised Mozambique’s rating to B+ from B, with a stable
outlook, last month.  Mozambique’s government revised 2012 economic data, pushing
the current-account gap to 37 percent of gross domestic product,
S&P said. The nation’s rating is held back by its reliance on
donor aid and foreign investment to drive economic growth and
its need for capital flows to fund the deficit, S&P said. Energy
companies are investing in the nation to develop the world’s
largest gas finds in a decade.  “The negative outlook reflects the potential for a
downgrade within the next year if progress on big investment
projects slows or if projects seem less likely to generate the
growth needed to narrow the external and fiscal deficits,”
Esters said.  “We could revise the outlook to stable if
economic growth remains strong and significant donor inflows
continue to fund a material portion of  Mozambique ’s fiscal
deficits, and its balance of payments.”  The economy will probably expand 5.5 percent to 6 percent
annually for the next few years, S&P said. The fiscal gap will
average about 6 percent of GDP a year through 2016 and
government debt will rise to 35 percent of GDP from 32 percent
in 2013, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rene Vollgraaff in Johannesburg at 
 rvollgraaff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  