-- Pennsylvania Judge Bars Voter-ID Law for Next Election
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-08-16T20:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/pennsylvania-judge-bars-voter-id-law-for-next-election.html
A Pennsylvania judge approved an
agreement between the state and advocacy groups barring
enforcement of a voter-identification law through the November
election.  The ban will last until the court renders a final verdict
in a lawsuit over the statute, Commonwealth Court Judge Bernard McGinley ruled today. The state, the  American Civil Liberties
Union  and other groups reached an agreement on enforcement at
the conclusion of a non-jury trial on Aug. 1. McGinley approved
the accord today while rejecting a request to ban poll workers
from asking for identification even if it isn’t yet required to
cast a ballot.  “This will allow the parties and this court to address the
permanent injunction without distraction or distress from
impending elections,” McGinley said in his ruling.  The ACLU and other groups are challenging the Republican-backed measure requiring a driver’s license or state-issued ID
to cast a ballot. Opponents of the legislation, enacted in March
2012 by Republican Governor Tom Corbett, claim its intent is to
suppress votes of lower-income people and the elderly who may be
more inclined to vote Democratic. Supporters contend the law is
needed to prevent voter fraud.  As many as 710,000 people might be barred from voting under
the statute, according to the ACLU. State officials estimated
that number at about 2,500.  10 States  Pennsylvania’s law  is similar to measures passed in
Republican-controlled states.  Pennsylvania  is one of 10 states
that passed bills requiring voters to show state-issued IDs
before casting valid ballots, according to the National
Conference of State Legislators. Eighteen states passed laws
requiring or requesting voters to present some kind of photo ID.
Only two states had adopted voter-ID laws before 2008.  Poll workers in Pennsylvania, while now able to ask for ID,
won’t be allowed to tell voters that identification is required
at future elections, McGinley said.  “We will not have to keep going back to court after every
election to get an extension of the injunction,” Jennifer
Clarke, an attorney for the plaintiffs and executive
director of the Public Interest Law Center of Philadelphia,
said in an e-mail. “And it prevents the very real possibility
of confusion by modifying what poll workers have to tell voters
at the polls.”  The case is Applewhite v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
330-MD-2012, Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  