-- Pension Bailout, SAC Stock Sales, Metal: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-08-16T12:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/pension-bailout-sac-stock-sales-metal-compliance.html
The U.S. government urged  General
Motors Co. (GM)  to improve pensions of some  Delphi Automotive Plc (DLPH) 
union retirees while cutting those of salaried workers to help
ensure a speedy emergence from a GM bankruptcy, the watchdog of
the Troubled Asset Relief Program said.  As part of the bailout of GM and Chrysler Group LLC in
2009, the Treasury Department used some money for a so-called
top-off of pensions for hourly employees at auto-parts supplier
Delphi, which GM spun off in 1999. Salaried Delphi retirees had
their pensions cut as part of the agreement.  Demands from the United Auto Workers representing the
retirees threatened to stall GM’s bankruptcy, according to a
 report  yesterday from the TARP’s special inspector general. As a
result, government officials led by  Steven Rattner  pressed the
Detroit-based automaker to reach an agreement on the pension
liabilities before the bankruptcy, the report said.  The Treasury’s auto team “made it clear to GM that they
wanted an agreement with the UAW prior to bankruptcy and the
auto team actively negotiated and made the overall deal,”
according to the report. “Treasury’s auto team and GM did not
agree to top up the pensions of other former GM employees at
Delphi, which did not have active employees at GM, and therefore
had no leverage to hold up GM’s bankruptcy.”  The TARP special inspector general said in the report that
it made no recommendation after a review of the Delphi pension
issue.  GM was facing default when the government, concerned about
the effects on the automaker’s supply chain and the  U.S.
economy , agreed to step in late 2008.  Compliance Policy  CFPB Releases Update of Exam Procedures for Mortgage Rules  The U.S. Consumer Finance Protection Bureau released its
second update of exam procedures for mortgage rules first issued
in January, according to a statement by the agency.  The rules cover ability-to-repay/qualified mortgages, high-cost mortgages, appraisals for higher-priced  mortgage loans , new
amendments related to the escrows rule, and recent changes to
credit card rules, the Consumer Bureau said in yesterday’s
statement.  The release of the exam procedures will help financial
institutions and mortgage companies understand and prepare for
examinations by the Consumer Bureau, it said in the statement.  Compliance Action  Cohen’s SAC Reduces U.S. Stock Holdings by $2 Billion Amid Probe  Billionaire  Steven A. Cohen ’s SAC Capital Advisors LP, the
hedge-fund firm facing federal  insider-trading  charges and
client defections, cut its U.S. stock-listed holdings by about
$2 billion in the second quarter.  SAC held $16.2 billion of U.S.-listed stocks as of June 30,
according to a filing Aug. 14 with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The biggest decreases in its holdings were
in  EQT Corp. (EQT) , which fell in value by $213.8 million as SAC sold
3.32 million shares, and  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI) , which shrank by
$163.7 million as the firm sold 53.2 million shares.  SAC, based in Stamford, Connecticut, was accused by the
U.S. government in a July 25 indictment of engaging in an
unprecedented insider-trading scheme lasting more than a decade.
In an administrative action last month, regulators said Cohen
failed to supervise two employees who have been charged with
insider trading.  Cohen, 57, has vowed to keep SAC open for business as
investors pulled billions of dollars from its funds this year.
Remaining clients have until today to ask to redeem their money
for the third quarter. Executives at SAC, which oversaw about
$14 billion in net assets at the start of July, expect to end
the year with about $9 billion, a person with knowledge of the
matter said earlier this week.  SAC was granted approval by a judge last week to continue
operating until the insider-trading cases are resolved. The
approved plan requires that SAC maintain at least 85 percent of
the “aggregate value” of assets owned by the firm’s “entity
defendants” as of July 1, and in exchange, allows for the fund
to continue its lawful operations. If the assets fall below the
specified level in a given month, the fund is required to
“replenish” the monies, according to the Aug. 9 order.  Separately, SAC has refused clients’ requests that the firm
speed up payouts on the billions of dollars earmarked for
withdrawals, according to three people familiar with the
discussions.  SAC, which faces a midnight deadline for redemption
requests from investors who want to pull money from the firm,
has told clients that final payments will be made at the end of
the year. Some investors have pushed Cohen to give clients their
money back before then, fearing that the government could freeze
the funds’ assets, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because SAC is private. The government has said it
doesn’t plan on restraining assets.  SAC started the year with $15 billion of assets, about $6
billion of which belonged to outsiders. As insider-trading probe
against the firm intensified, clients redeemed more than $3
billion in the first half of 2013, which is being returned over
the course of this year. SAC’s executives have said they expect
the firm to start 2014 with about $9 billion in assets and that
virtually all outside investors will be gone by then, according
to people familiar with the firm.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC at Sard Verbinnen
& Co., declined to comment on either the filing or redemptions.  Aluminum Premium Trading Rises as Regulators Focus on Waits  Trading in aluminum premiums is climbing as regulators
focus on long lines for metal from warehouses that buyers say
boosted their costs.  More over-the-counter swaps changed hands since the London
Metal Exchange, or LME, proposed rules last month to cut waiting
times for metal at warehouses, according to Credit Suisse Group
AG, a provider of the products. CME Group Inc. reported the
first trade in aluminum premium futures last week. Premiums are
falling at the fastest pace in 20 months and may drop another 25
percent by the end of 2013, according to Barclays Plc.  Consumers led by brewer MillerCoors LLC told a U.S. Senate
hearing last month that banks and other warehouse owners are
using “unfair” LME rules to slow deliveries. The LME, which
oversees more than 700 warehouses, proposed changes to the rules
on July 1. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission subpoenaed
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Glencore
Xstrata Plc for documents related to their warehouses, according
to three people with knowledge of the matter.  The LME proposed obliging warehouses where withdrawals take
more than 100 days to deliver out more metal than they take in.
Detroit, New Orleans, the Dutch port of Vlissingen, the Belgian
city of Antwerp and Malaysia’s Johor have waits for metal
exceeding 100 days, according to Barclays.  For more, click here.  BHP Says May Face Regulator Sanctions in Anti-Corruption Probe  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, may
face enforcement actions by U.S. regulators in relation to
possible breaches of anti-corruption laws linked to the Beijing
Olympics and terminated projects.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and Department
of Justice recently notified the company of “the issues they
consider could form the basis of enforcement actions and
discussions are continuing,” Melbourne-based BHP said today in
a statement. They “relate primarily to matters in connection
with previously terminated exploration and development efforts,
as well as hospitality provided as part of the company’s
sponsorship of the 2008 Beijing Olympics,” it said.  BHP is the subject of U.S. and Australian inquiries into
its dealings with foreign officials, including Chinese
dignitaries, under a multimillion-dollar hospitality and
sponsorship program at the 2008 Olympics, the Age reported in
June. The company is also conducting an internal inquiry that
stems from a 2009 probe by the SEC.  In June, BHP said it had disclosed to relevant authorities
evidence that it uncovered regarding possible violations of
anti-corruption laws involving interactions with government
officials. BHP provided the information to authorities,
including the U.S. Justice Department, it said today.  Fiona Hadley, a spokeswoman for BHP, declined to elaborate
on the nature of the enforcement actions the company may face.  “In light of the continuing nature of the investigations
it is not appropriate at this stage for  BHP Billiton  to comment
further or to predict outcomes,” the company said, according to
the statement.  Courts  Vitesse Officials Plead Guilty to Backdating After Mistrials  Vitesse Semiconductor Corp. (VTSS)  co-founder and former Chief
Executive Officer Louis Tomasetta and ex-finance chief Eugene
Hovanec pleaded guilty after two mistrials to scheming to
destroy documents sought by the U.S. as part of a federal probe
into options backdating.  Tomasetta, 64, and Hovanec, 61, earlier this year asked the
court to dismiss charges that they conspired to inflate earnings
after both trials ended with deadlocked juries. They entered the
pleas yesterday before U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in
Manhattan.  Each pleaded guilty to a single count of conspiracy to
falsify company records in an effort to impede an investigation
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Under a plea
agreement with the U.S. Attorney’s Office, they face 12 to 18
months in prison under federal guidelines when they are
sentenced Nov. 4, Rakoff said.  The men were set to be retried for a third time on that
date.  The case is U.S. v. Tomasetta, 10-mj-01205, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  FBI Hells Angels Probe Not an ‘Official Proceeding,’ Court Says  The U.S. appeals court in  San Francisco  reversed the
convictions of two people for obstruction of justice, saying an
FBI investigation of a Hells Angels chapter wasn’t an “official
proceeding” under the federal statute.  Gary Ermoian and  Stephen Johnson  were accused of helping
pass along confidential information during a 2006 investigation
of a local chapter of the Hells Angels motorcycle club in the
Modesto, California, area by the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation
and related law enforcement groups.  At trial, the district court “instructed the jury that an
‘official proceeding’ includes an investigation by the FBI,”
the court wrote in its decision. That instruction, the court
decided Aug. 14, “was legally erroneous.”  The appellate court’s ruling could have implications for
white-collar cases because the panel examined the meaning of
“official proceeding” in the federal statute and declined to
expand it.  The panel concluded that interference with an investigation
alone, as opposed to “business conducted by a court or official
body,” isn’t a violation of that phrase in the statute. The
panel wrote that the statute elsewhere provides for obstruction
of justice charges for actions taken, specifically, during an
investigation.  “If we were to read the phrase ‘official proceeding’ to
include an FBI investigation, as the government urges us to do,
this subsection of the statute would work to criminalize actions
taken” even before an investigation begins, the court wrote.  Calls to Jerald Brainin, Johnson’s lawyer, and John Balazs,
Ermoian’s attorney, weren’t immediately returned. Mark Cullers,
chief assistant U.S. attorney in Fresno, California, didn’t
immediately respond to a message left at his office.  The case is U.S. vs. Ermoian, 11-10124, and U.S. vs.
Johnson, 11-10388,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit
(San Francisco).  Interviews  Wheeler Says London Whale Probe Will ‘Haunt’ JPMorgan  Christopher Wheeler , an analyst at Mediobanca SpA, talked
about the reputational damage to JPMorgan Chase & Co. from last
year’s $6.2 billion trading loss, caused by former trader Bruno
Iksil, the Frenchman who became known as the London Whale.  Wheeler spoke with  Guy Johnson  and Francine Lacqua on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  SEC Names Eun Ah Choi to Manage Investment Division  Eun Ah Choi was named by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to be the managing executive of its investment
management division, according to an e-mailed statement by the
agency.  The division works to “protect investors, promote informed
investment decisions, and facilitate appropriate innovation in
investment products and services through regulation of the asset
management industry,” the SEC said in the statement.  Choi will join the SEC from  Hogan Lovells , where she is a
partner in the firm’s Washington office.  Salzgitter to Cut Board, Split Unit, Sueddeutsche Zeitung Says  Salzgitter AG (SZG) , the German steel producer and trader, will
cut its board and split a unit, Sueddeutsche Zeitung reported.  The company plans to reduce its management board from six
members to just its chief executive officer, chief financial
officer and human resource executive, the newspaper reported,
without saying where it got the information. Two board members
will retire while a third position is currently vacant.  Salzgitter will split a steel unit into flat steel and
profile steel sections, according to the newspaper.  The company’s press office didn’t immediately reply to an
e-mail seeking comment sent outside office hours.  Last week, Salzgitter predicted a loss for 2013 amid waning
demand in Europe. It plans to cut more than 1,500 jobs as it
seeks to save more than 200 million euros ($265 million) a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  