-- Poland’s Rating Affirmed by S&P on Fiscal Consolidation Progress
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-08-16T16:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/poland-s-rating-affirmed-by-s-p-on-fiscal-consolidation-progress.html
Poland ’s credit rating was affirmed
at the fourth lowest investment grade by Standard & Poor’s,
which cited the government’s commitment to fiscal consolidation.  S&P held the foreign-currency debt grade of the European
Union’s largest eastern member at A- with a stable outlook, the
company said today in an e-mailed statement from New York. That
leaves it at the same level as Slovenia and  Malaysia .  “The ratings on Poland are supported by our view of its
diversified, resilient economy made more flexible by a floating
exchange rate, which has enabled adjustment to external
shocks,” S&P said in the statement. “In affirming the ratings
on Poland, we view the government as committed to fiscal
consolidation, despite worsening near-term deficit expectations
and amendments to fiscal rules.”  Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s government is struggling to
revive the economy, which is set to grow at the slowest pace
since the 1990s this year. The government announced plans to
widen the budget deficit by 16 billion zloty ($5 billion) and
suspend rules limiting fiscal stimulus to give it scope to kick-start a recovery. The cabinet is also working to overhaul the
country’s privately managed pension funds to reduce public debt.  S&P predicted that the government will amend the budget
following a review and will choose how to overhaul its pension
system by the end of the month or early next month.  “Although the proposed changes to the management of public
finances are designed to address structural weaknesses, we also
view them as indicating Poland’s increasingly constricted fiscal
position,” S&P said. An eventual recovery “will reduce the
likelihood that near-term fiscal slippage will recur.”  S&P forecasts 1 percent growth in real gross domestic
product per capita in 2013, accelerating to an average of 2.7
percent by between 2014 and 2016.  It also predicts that the budget deficit will widen to 4.3
percent of GDP this year from 3.9 percent in 2012, before
narrowing to 3 percent by 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  