-- Potential Tropical System Has Energy Companies on Alert
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-08-16T15:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/potential-tropical-system-has-energy-companies-on-alert.html
A ragged collection of rain showers
off the Yucatan Peninsula may develop into a weak tropical
system as it moves over the  Gulf of Mexico , prompting some
energy operations to evacuate non-essential personnel.  The low-pressure area in the southwestern Gulf has a 50
percent chance of becoming tropical in the next two days,
according to the  U.S. National Hurricane Center  in Miami.  “I believe there is still a chance to eke out a depression
or a weak tropical storm, but odds for a major development seem
very, very low.”said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity
Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  The exact track of the system is uncertain, according to
the hurricane center. A westward path would mean better chance
of growth than a northerly one would.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s Manta Ray offshore natural gas gathering
company evacuated non-essential personnel from two platforms off
Louisiana on Aug. 14.  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  pulled some workers
from its Ewing Bank platform in the Gulf yesterday.  BP Plc (BP/)  began removing non-essential workers from four
offshore platforms yesterday and drilling rigs contracted by the
company halted operations. Production at all platforms “remains
online,” the company said in a website statement.  Rogers said the evacuations are probably necessary because
there won’t be a lot of time to react if a storm actually
develops in the  600,000-square-mile  body of water.  Gulf Production  The Gulf is home to about 6 percent of U.S. natural gas
output, 23 percent of oil production and at least 45 percent of
petroleum-refining capacity, according to the U.S. Energy
Department.  The Bay of Campeche, at the southern end of the Gulf, is
where  Petroleos Mexicanos ,  Mexico ’s state-owned oil company, has
most of its output. Florida is the second-largest producer of
oranges after Brazil.  A depression is the weakest form of tropical system. A
storm gets a name when its winds reach 39 miles (63 kilometers)
per hour. When maximum sustained winds reach at least 74 mph, a
system is classified as a hurricane according to the five-step
 Saffir-Simpson scale .  Satlellite images show the Gulf system is being stretched
out, an indication of wind shear that may keep it from growing
into a stronger storm, said Mark Paquette, a meteorologist at
AccuWeather Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania.  “Conditions over the Gulf of Mexico are not favorable,”
Paquette said by telephone.  Rain Threat  He said the real threat from the storm will probably be
heavy rain for Georgia, South Carolina and  North Carolina .  “Much of the Southeast has seen more than enough rain
through the early part of this summer,” Paquette said. “They
are trying to give their rain away and they can’t.”  The hurricane center is also tracking  Tropical Depression
Erin , which is about 530 miles west of the Cape Verde Islands.
It was dropped from tropical storm status when its maximum
sustained winds fell to 35 mph from 40.  Erin is expected to drift through the mid-Atlantic far from
land before breaking up sometime next week.  “Erin seems like a no-threat fish storm,” Rogers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  