-- Qaddafi-Era Libya Work Haunts SNC’s Turnaround
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-08-16T20:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/qaddafi-era-libya-work-haunts-snc-s-turnaround-corporate-canada.html
A project  SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. (SNC) 
abandoned in  Libya  two years ago amid the rebellion against
dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  is coming back to haunt  Canada ’s
largest engineering and construction company.  Investors such as Luc Fournier at  Industrial Alliance
Insurance & Financial Services Inc. (IAG)  are questioning whether
their shares will rebound after Montreal-based SNC cut its
annual profit forecast on Aug. 2. That disclosure included a
surprise risk: a possible C$47 million ($45.6 million) loss from
a client’s attempt to draw on a  credit line  for the Libya work.  SNC’s 4.7 percent stock-price slump since then is stirring
concern that a turnaround remains elusive for a company tarred
by a fraud investigation and investor lawsuits. Chief Executive
Officer Robert Card, who took over in October, said on an Aug. 2
conference call that 2013 looms as “a very challenging year.”  “It’s a setback, for sure,” said Fournier, who holds SNC
stock among C$1 billion of Canadian equities he oversees at the
 Quebec  City-based firm. “People thought the new CEO was
cleaning things up, their big issues were behind them -- and all
of a sudden that wasn’t the case. I don’t know how to value this
company anymore.”  Rally Falters  SNC rose 1.7 percent to C$41 at the close in Toronto. A 23
percent surge for the shares in the first six weeks of 2013 has
almost evaporated, and its 1.7 percent year-to-date gain is the
fifth-smallest among 21 stocks in the S&P/TSX Industrials
Index.  Card, the first American-born head in SNC’s 102-year
history, has appointed senior managers and is considering the
sale of infrastructure assets including power plants and an
airport after grouping them in a new unit.  Former CEO Pierre Duhaime, who quit in March 2012, was
arrested eight months later by the Quebec anti-corruption unit
and formally charged with fraud, conspiracy to commit fraud and
forgery in February. His lawyer pleaded not guilty on his
behalf.  SNC cut its forecast this month after posting a surprise
second-quarter  loss . The company booked the C$47 million “risk
provision” after a client unexpectedly attempted to draw on a
line of credit in connection with an undisclosed Libyan project
that was halted in 2011. SNC also posted a loss of C$70.1
million in the oil and gas unit related to a fixed-price project
in  Algeria .  Too Early  Michael Yerashotis, an analyst at Veritas Investment
Research in Toronto, said SNC’s North African travails show it’s
too early to recommend investing in the company.  “For SNC to move beyond its current litany of troubles,
the company must first identify what went wrong with its legacy
internal controls and risk assessment processes, then fix the
identified problems,” Yerashotis said in a note this month.  Card and Chief Financial Officer Alain-Pierre Raynaud are
both on vacation and unavailable to comment, said Leslie Quinton, an SNC spokeswoman.  Engineering and construction “results continue to be
challenging as we are still dealing with certain difficult
legacy projects and we are going through a major transition
period within the company,” Quinton said in an e-mail
yesterday.  Libyan projects at the time of Qaddafi’s ouster included an
airport, a prison and a water line network known as the Great
Man-Made River, according to SNC’s 2010  annual report . The
report described the prison, the Guryan Judicial City, as “the
country’s first detention center to comply with international
human rights standards.”  No Threat  Denis Durand, senior partner at Jarislowsky Fraser Ltd. in
 Montreal , said he’s confident SNC’s Aug. 2 announcement
represents a “pause” and won’t derail Card’s plans.  While Card may need to book new provisions related to Libya
in the next year, they would likely not exceed “a few tens of
millions” of dollars, said Durand, whose Montreal-based firm
was SNC’s biggest  investor  as of February with a 9.9 percent
equity stake.  “Most of the issues tied to North Africa are behind
them,” Durand said in an interview. “They’ve ring-fenced the
problem contracts. There was a lack of controls at the company,
but the culture is changing.”  Michael Sabia , CEO of the C$185.9 billion Caisse de Depot
et Placement du Quebec, today reaffirmed his support for Card
and the “cultural turnaround” he is overseeing. The Caisse,
Canada’s second-largest pension fund manager, owned 6.1 million
SNC shares as of Dec. 31, making it the company’s No. 2 holder.  ‘Difficult Road’  “They’ve been traveling down a difficult road, a very
difficult road,” Sabia said on a conference call with
reporters. “They are making progress. We’re a long-term
investor, we’re a patient investor, we’re going to work with
management and the board and try to get this company, this
quality company, through a difficult patch in its history.”  Some deals may be in the works. SNC has identified assets
it can sell “in the near term,” including concessions such as
 New York ’s  Astoria  1 and 2  power plants  and the Malta
International Airport, CFO Raynaud told analysts Aug. 2.  In addition, Raynaud said the company is “actively
considering alternatives” for its  AltaLink  unit, which owns a
power-transmission network in  Alberta . Those “may include
public market alternatives and/or bringing in an equity,
strategic or financial partner to maximize the value of this
investment,” he said without being more specific.  Executive Exit  Card is working to reshape SNC amid rising costs and a
global commodities slump that has slowed order intake from
mining clients.  He’s also running the company with a revamped management
team. Michael Novak, 59, the executive vice president
responsible for government, aboriginal and economic affairs,
said today by e-mail that he will retire at year’s “to go
pursue other projects which I am very passionate about.” Novak,
a 27-year SNC veteran, becomes the fourth high-ranking executive
to leave in 2013.  SNC’s infrastructure, environment and power units should
drive a rebound in profits while Card puts his stamp on the
company, according to  John Stephenson , who holds SNC shares
among the C$2.7 billion he helps oversee as a portfolio manager
at First Asset Investment Management Inc.  “It’s been a painful period but it’s almost over,”
Stephenson said. “We have huge infrastructure issues globally,
and these are not going away -- whether it’s water desalination
or engineering work, this is something that SNC should be
getting its fair share of. This is a chance for them to put
their house in order, and they will.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  