-- Rail-Truck Shipments Reveal Holiday Sales Clues: EcoPulse
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2013-08-16T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/rail-truck-shipments-reveal-holiday-sales-clues-ecopulse.html
Holiday sales are poised to rise
from last year, based on the current volume of goods transported
primarily by both truck and rail.  Investors looking for early clues are tracking these
shipments now because they’re an “important metric” for
gauging activity driven by retailers building up inventories
ahead of the holiday season, said  Alan Gayle , senior strategist
in Atlanta at RidgeWorth Capital Management, which oversees
about $48 billion.  Total U.S. intermodal volume -- goods shipped by more than
one means of transportation -- rose 4 percent for the four weeks
ended Aug. 10 compared with a year ago, according to figures
from the Washington-based  Association of American Railroads .
That’s the biggest increase since March.  The data will reflect a change in pace “before it becomes
a broad phenomenon” and supplement commentary from trucking and
railroad companies, Gayle said.  The shipping total is a good proxy because  consumer goods 
such as electronics and clothing make up about 72 percent of
containerized freight, said Charles Clowdis, managing director
of transportation-advisory services at IHS Global Insight in
Lexington,  Massachusetts .  Freight data point to a pick-up in sales even as retailers
including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  and  Macy’s Inc. (M)  cut
their guidance this week for fiscal-year sales or earnings.  Li &
Fung Ltd. (494)  -- the world’s largest supplier of clothes and toys --
also reported first-half profit that missed analyst estimates
amid sluggish demand from U.S. customers.  Falling Income  Net income fell 16 percent to $96 million for the six
months ended June 30 from a year ago, excluding a writeback in
the year-earlier period, the Hong Kong-based company said Aug.
13. That compares with an average estimate compiled by Bloomberg
of $106.3 million from three analysts.  Li & Fung’s U.S.  customers  -- which include Wal-Mart,
 Target Corp. (TGT)  and Kohl’s -- “have all adopted a more cautious
view toward their winter sales this year” as the “retail
environment is tracking with the slow pace of economic
recovery,” the company said in a statement.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, now forecasts
earnings of $5.10 to $5.30 a share for its fiscal year ending
January 2014, compared with its earlier projection of $5.20 to
$5.40. The Bentonville, Arkansas-based company’s “customer
remains challenged,” William Simon, chief executive officer of
the U.S. division, said on an Aug. 15 conference call.  Economic ‘Tension’  “There’s a tension in the economy right now that will
continue into the holiday season and beyond,” said Robert Dye,
chief economist at  Comerica Inc. (CMA)  in  Dallas . Even so, sales still
could be stronger than last year, driven in part by rebounding
home values, steady hiring and rising equity prices, he said.  Retail sales excluding restaurants, vehicles and gasoline
could climb by an inflation-adjusted 3 percent to 3.5 percent in
November and December, the traditional holiday rush, compared
with 2.5 percent a year ago, Dye estimated.  The median price of an existing house jumped 13.5 percent
to $214,200 in June from a year earlier, the biggest increase
since 2005, according to data from the National Association of
Realtors. Employers have added an average of 192,430 jobs to
payrolls each month this year, compared with 180,570 during the
first seven months of 2012, based on figures from the Labor
Department. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of stocks has risen
almost  17 percent  since Dec. 31, 2012.  ‘Overly Bullish’  Companies that use  Pacer International Inc. (PACR)  for
transporting goods aren’t “overly bullish” or anticipating
“anything bold,” said Paul Svindland, chief operating officer
of the intermodal, trucking, freight and transportation-logistics service provider.  The primary window for sending goods via intermodal
channels already has opened, and shipments will taper off by
mid-November. While Dublin, Ohio-based Pacer predicts an
“uptick” in volume, there probably won’t be “much of a
spike” as in years past, Svindland said in an interview.  Any increase probably will be more like “a small mound,”
Clowdis said, partly because the traditional peak season now
begins earlier. He forecasts volumes will advance more than 3.7
percent during the holiday season from a year ago, compared with
less than 1 percent to 2 percent for all modes of
transportation, with some intermodal growth coming from
increased use by retail outlets.  Diversified Play  Companies specializing in this type of shipping offer
investors a “very diversified economic play,” unlike
businesses that are leveraged to a specific commodity, said
 Timothy Ghriskey , chief investment officer at Solaris Asset
Management in New York, which manages more than $1.5 billion.
 Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  and  J.B. Hunt Transport Services Inc. (JBHT)  --
both of which Solaris currently holds -- are ways to bet on
improvements in this industry and the broader economy, he said.  Shares of Union Pacific have risen 228 percent since Dec.
31, 2008, while J.B. Hunt’s stock is up 178 percent. That
compares with an almost 84 percent gain for the  S&P 500 .  While “the bigger picture remains phenomenal” for both
stocks, they’ve weakened in the past four months, said Jim Stellakis, founder and director of research at Greenwich,
Connecticut-based research company Technical Alpha Inc. Further
underperformance would signal partly that investors are bracing
for a slower holiday season, he said.  Sideways Moves  Even though J.B. Hunt, based in Lowell, Arkansas, has been
“one of the strongest trucking names for a long time,” its
stock has moved “ sideways ” since April, said Stellakis, a
chartered market technician. Shares of Omaha, Nebraska-based
Union Pacific also have been “ losing steam ” and now are
trading near the lowest level since May on a relative basis.  That’s not deterring Ghriskey, who is looking ahead to
stronger fourth-quarter U.S. growth and holiday sales after a
“really disappointing first half.” An improvement could force
retailers to expand inventories from “unsustainably low”
levels to meet increased consumer demand, he said.  The ratio of retail stockpiles to sales was 1.4 in June,
after reaching a 32-year low of 1.34 in October 2011, based on
figures from the Census Bureau. That compares with a five-year
pre-recession average of 1.52.  Gross domestic product will accelerate by 2.3 percent in
the third quarter and 2.6 percent in the fourth, based on the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That
follows a gain of 1.1 percent in the three months ended March 31
and 1.7 percent for the second quarter.  Lingering Concerns  Walter Kemmsies of Moffatt & Nichol Inc. has some lingering
concerns about the strength of the U.S. expansion. He forecasts
intermodal freight will increase 3 percent in July through
October compared with the same four months in 2012, the lower
end of his previous estimate of 3 percent to 5 percent.
Sequestration -- automatic, across-the-board federal spending
cuts -- “seems to have depressed businesses and consumers”
more than predicted, even as housing prices have improved, he
said.  Macy’s cut its fiscal-year earnings forecast this week amid
“softer than anticipated” sales in the three months ended Aug.
3, Chief Executive Officer  Terry Lundgren  said in an Aug. 14
statement.  The Cincinnati-based retailer’s second-quarter performance
in part “reflects consumers’ continuing uncertainty about
spending on discretionary items in the current economic
environment,” he said. Macy’s now projects earnings of $3.80 to
$3.90 a share, down from its May estimate of $3.90 to $3.95.  Expedited Transport  Any late-season surge in  consumer spending  might not
benefit companies that specialize in intermodal transportation,
Clowdis cautioned. That’s because retailers will use expedited
methods such as air freight to get goods to their stores;
intermodal adds about two days to transit time, he said.  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC)  operates three types of intermodal
services -- international, domestic and premium -- giving it
broad exposure to holiday-related shipments, according to Jeff Heller, a vice president at the Norfolk, Virginia-based railroad
carrier.  “Preliminary projections from the retail and ocean-carrier
sectors would indicate that there will be some semblance of a
peak season this year, but it will be gradual,” he said in an
interview. “I haven’t seen data suggesting people are feeling
much better this year than last.”  Christmas Spending  Consumer confidence  is particularly important for Christmas
spending, Comerica’s Dye said.  Sentiment fell to  minus 26.6  in the week ended Aug. 11
after it was the highest since 2008 the prior week, according to
the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index. If monthly hiring gains
exceed 200,000 a month late in the year and shoppers feel more
secure financially because of rising equity and housing prices,
sales would benefit, Dye said. “A virtuous economic cycle is
starting to engage.”  A significant increase in intermodal activity would reflect
“greater retailer confidence” that Gayle would look to confirm
with commentary from company executives, he said. If volumes
contracted for three or four consecutive weeks, “this would be
a real red flag for the holiday season and for the economy,”
Ghriskey said.  Christmas sales only are “part of the story” for
Ghriskey’s bullishness, so investors with an optimistic outlook
should consider companies specializing in intermodal
transportation now, he said.  “These are the vehicles that would directly benefit from
increased economic activity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  