-- Rio May Lead Gains for Miners Should Australia Change Government
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-08-16T03:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/rio-may-lead-gains-for-miners-should-australia-change-government.html
Rio Tinto Group may benefit the most
of the major coal and iron ore mining companies in Australia
should the government change at the Sept. 7 election, according
to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Rio Tinto’s net present value would climb by 6 percent
should the Liberal-National coalition, which leads opinion
polls, scrap a tax on carbon emissions and a levy on iron-ore
and coal profits,  Lyndon Fagan , Mark Busuttil, Joseph Kim, Luke
Nelson and Fraser Jamieson wrote in a note to clients dated Aug.
15.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s valuation would climb by 3 percent.  The “removal of these taxes would be positive for cash
flow,” the JPMorgan analysts wrote. “The coalition has more of
a pro-mining stance,” and it winning office may lead to quicker
project approvals, according to the report.  The mining tax, introduced under former Labor Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard , will raise A$700 million ($642 million)
in the current fiscal year, according to Treasury forecasts.
Australia’s 2014 fixed carbon price of A$25.40 per metric ton is
the highest in the world.  If the Labor party is re-elected, it may seek to change the
mining profit tax to generate more revenue, “which if commodity
prices do rally could penalize the sector even more in the
medium to longer term,” Citigroup Inc. analysts led by  Paul Brennan  wrote in an Aug. 15 note.  The aviation sector, rather than mining, “may be the main
beneficiary of the repeal of the carbon tax,” Brennan wrote.  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , Australia’s third-biggest iron
ore exporter, would see its value lifted by 1 percent as a
result of the decision to eliminate the carbon tax, the JPMorgan
report said.  The coalition maintained its 52 percent to 48 percent lead
over Labor in the two-party preferred measure, according to a
Newspoll published in The Australian newspaper Aug. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  