-- RIT Capital Assets Rise On Rothschild’s Currency Bets
-- B y   K i e l   P o r t e r
-- 2013-08-16T09:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/rit-capital-assets-rise-on-rothschild-s-currency-bets.html
RIT Capital Partners Plc (RCP) , the U.K.
investment trust led by  Jacob Rothschild , reported a 16 percent
increase in its net assets, helped by bets against U.S. bonds
and the Japanese yen.  Assets under management climbed 290 million pounds from the
start of the year to 2.14 billion pounds ($3.35 billion) at the
end of July, the London-based trust said in a statement today.
Net asset value rose to 1,378 pence a share for a total return
of 16.9 percent.  “Our quoted equity book has outperformed markets, while
our reading of foreign exchange markets has contributed to our
profits,” Rothschild said in the statement. “Recognising that
U.S. authorities would face difficulties in suppressing bond
yields in the face of an improving economy, we held short
positions in  government bonds  during the period.”  The proportion of the fund’s assets denominated in British
pounds almost doubled to 31 percent of the fund in the first
half, RIT said, while dollar assets rose to 80 percent from 62
percent. The fund stayed short the Japanese yen.  RIT reduced its holdings in  emerging markets  and
“increased positions in the improving U.S. economy,”
Rothschild said. The fund “profited as well from Japan’s bold
economic strategy” by buying Japanese equities, he said.  The fund sees “interesting private and public equity
opportunities” through its relationships with Edmond de
Rothschild Group, Rockefeller & Co. and Corsair Capital LLC,
Rothschild said. Hannah Rothschild was also named a director of
the fund.  RIT  shares  have risen about 6 percent this year. They
climbed 0.4 percent to 1,200 pence at 10:28 a.m. in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  