-- Rocking Rabbi Flees Nazis, Leads Flower Children: Review
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2013-08-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/rocking-rabbi-flees-nazis-leads-flower-children-review.html
“Not to drop names,” a record
producer in a plaid jacket says to the charismatic musical rabbi
Shlomo Carlebach. “You heard of Peter, Paul and Mary?”  “I don’t know so much the New Testament,” Carlebach ( Eric
Anderson ) replies.  Combine “Fiddler on the Roof” with “Jersey Boys,” add
some “Hair” and hokum and you get a taste of “ Soul Doctor ,”
a lively, occasionally cartoonish new musical on Broadway.  For fans of Carlebach, the bushy-bearded, guitar-strumming
singer-songwriter who mixed contemporary genres with traditional
Jewish music, the show has dozens of his songs to recommend it.
And it’s unabashedly Jewish, or at least Jewish-sounding.  The Yiddish exclamation “gevalt” makes 18 appearances.  Carlebach, who died in 1994, was partly reared in Nazi-occupied Vienna. Early in act one, a stranger sings to young
Shlomo that he’ll “teach the world to sing” the wondrous song
of the Sabbath. Not a moment too soon: a Nazi officer emerges
and shoots the prophetic stranger dead.  A happier chance encounter, with the jazz singer Nina Simone (the luminous Amber Iman) in a  New York  piano bar, leads
to a friendship and inspires him to follow his spirituality
beyond the realm of traditional Judaism.  The rabbi goes on to lead a commune-like synagogue in late-1960s  San Francisco . That disappoints his Orthodox father and
provides gist for director and book-writer Daniel Wise and
choreographer Benoit-Swan Pouffer to stage “Hair”-style dance
numbers in the aisles of the Circle in the Square Theater.  Given its anemic sales, “Soul Doctor” may not be
practicing for long. Those intrigued by this passionately
performed niche entertainment shouldn’t dawdle. For the less
choosy of the chosen people, the musical hits the spot.  At 236 W. 50th St. Information: +1-212-239-6200;
 http://souldoctorbroadway.com . Rating: **1/2  (Philip Boroff is a reporter for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham ’s  podcast  and Zinta
Lundborg’s NYC  Weekend .  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff at   pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 