-- Rosalia Mera, Who Was Spain’s Richest Woman, Dies at 69
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-08-16T00:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/rosalia-mera-retailer-who-was-spain-s-richest-woman-dies-at-69.html
Rosalia Mera, the Spanish
billionaire who co-founded the Zara fashion label and helped
turn the holding company into one of the world’s largest
clothing retailers, has died. She was 69.  Her death was reported today on the  website  of Inditex SA.
Mera suffered a brain hemorrhage on Aug. 14 while vacationing
with her daughter, Sandra, on the island of Menorca, El Pais
newspaper reported.  Mera co-founded Inditex with her then-husband,  Amancio
Ortega , who began his career in clothing manufacturing in 1963
before the couple opened their first Zara store in the 1970s.
Initially making women’s bathrobes, the company expanded to sell
eight different brands, including Massimo Dutti and Bershka,
with more than 6,000 stores in 86 markets. Sales in 2012 reached
15.9 billion euros ($21 billion).  Mera’s estimated net worth of $5.5 billion made her Spain’s
richest woman, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .
Ortega, 77, owns a 59.3 percent stake in Inditex and is the
world’s fourth-richest person, with a net worth of $56.9
billion, according to the index.  After Inditex’s initial public offering in 2001, Mera and
her daughter, Sandra, became the second-largest shareholders
through their family investment vehicle Rosp Corunna. She holds
almost 7 percent of  Inditex (ITX) , according to the Spanish stock-market regulator. Other investments include a 5 percent stake in
Spanish biotechnology company Zeltia SA, as well as holdings in
film and television production, and real estate.  ‘Significant Role’  “Even though she wasn’t involved in the company anymore,
she did play a significant role at the beginning, along with her
ex-husband,” said Francisco Salvador, a Madrid-based strategist
at FGA/MG Valores. “Her investments haven’t made any big impact
yet on the corporate world, but her influence will remain
through the social works of her foundation.”  Rosalia Mera Goyenechea was born on Jan. 28, 1944, in a
working-class neighborhood of La Coruna, a northwestern city in
 Spain ’s Galicia region. She dropped out of school at age 11 to
work as a sales assistant in a clothing shop. Mera married
Ortega in 1966.  In 1975, she and her husband opened the first Zara store in
La Coruna, and Inditex was founded as a holding company for the
group of businesses 10 years later. Zara expanded abroad in
1988, opening a store in  Portugal , before establishing an outlet
in  New York  the following year and a Paris store in 1990. The
company is based in Arteixo, Spain.  Mera and Ortega separated in 1986 and she shifted her focus
to family life and charity work. In the same year, she co-founded  Paideia Galiza Foundation , which helps disabled and
disadvantaged people to find jobs and develop greater self-reliance. The couple divorced in 1997. Ortega remains Inditex’s
majority shareholder and is a member of the board.  Mera had two children, Sandra and Marcos, from her marriage
to Ortega.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  