-- Russian Pole-Vaulter Says Misunderstood Over Gays, AP Reports
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-08-16T15:54:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/russian-pole-vaulter-says-misunderstood-over-gays-ap-reports.html
Pole vault world-record holder Elena Isinbaeva said she was been misunderstood when she condemned
protests by fellow athletes against a Russian law banning gay
“propaganda,” the  Associated Press  reported.  “I respect the views of my fellow athletes and let me
state in the strongest terms that I am opposed to any
discrimination against gay people,” Isinbaeva said in a
statement, the AP reported. English is not her first language
and she was “misunderstood,” she said.  Isinbaeva yesterday defended the law, which has sparked
calls for a boycott of the Winter  Olympic Games  next year in
Russia. Two Swedish athletes competed at the World Championships
in Moscow with their fingernails painted in rainbow colors in a
sign of protest, AP said.  “If we will allow to promote and do all this stuff on the
streets, we are very afraid for our nation,” Isinbaeva, a
supporter of President  Vladimir Putin , said yesterday in
English, the RIA Novosti state news service reported. “We
consider ourselves as a traditional people when men live with
women. I hope this problem won’t affect the Sochi Games.”  Russian Sports Minister Vitaly Mutko said Aug. 1 that the
law will be enforced during the Sochi Games even after the
 International Olympic Committee  said it had received assurances
that it wouldn’t be applied against athletes or spectators.  Putin signed a law in July banning “propaganda of non-traditional sexual relations” among minors. The maximum fine
for violating the law is 1 million rubles ($30,400), applicable
to legal entities. Foreign citizens charged under the law face
as long as 15 days in jail and deportation from  Russia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  