-- Russian Stocks Decline Second Day Amid Fed Tapering Speculation
-- B y   M a r k   S w e e t m a n   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-08-16T10:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/russian-stocks-decline-second-day-amid-fed-tapering-speculation.html
Russian stocks fell for a second day
amid speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will reduce stimulus
that’s fueled a rally in emerging-market assets as early as next
month.  The 50-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  lost 0.5 percent by 1:47 p.m. in
Moscow to 1,383.96, trimming this week’s gain to less than 0.1
percent. Seventeen stocks rose, while 33 dropped. State-run
power company OAO RusHydro fell 1.3 percent after sliding 3.6
percent yesterday. Fertilizer producer OAO Phosagro sank for a
third day, losing 1.1 percent to 964 rubles.  Emerging-market stocks declined after the number of people
in the U.S. continuing to claim jobless benefits unexpectedly
fell last week to the lowest level in almost six years, data
showed yesterday. The Fed is expected to cut its $85 billion of
monthly bond purchases in September, according to 65 percent of
economists in a Bloomberg survey from Aug. 9-13.  “Concerns that the U.S. Federal Reserve would begin
tapering its bond purchases September were further supported by
yesterday’s U.S. weekly jobless claims data,” Iskander Abdullaev, a Sberbank CIB analyst in Moscow, said by e-mail.  The dollar-denominated RTS Index fell 0.2 percent to
1325.12, its second day of losses. Crude was little changed in
New York at $107.26 a barrel after five days of gains as
violence in  Egypt  fanned concern Middle East oil supplies may be
disrupted.  Russia  receives about half of its budget revenue from
the oil and natural gas industries.  Russia-dedicated equity flows had an outflow of $3.5
million in the week to Aug. 14, compared with $96 million in the
previous week, UralSib Financial Corp. said in a report today,
citing EPFR Global data.  Better Positioned  “Russia country funds appear to be better positioned than
other exposure to  emerging markets ,” Slava Smolyaninov, a
UralSib strategist, said in the report. “We partially attribute
this to the stubbornly high and rising oil price, spurred by the
escalating tensions in the Middle East.”  OAO Gazprom, Russia’s largest company, slid 0.2 percent to
130.78 rubles, while state-run OAO Rosneft, the biggest oil
company by output in the world, dropped 0.8 percent to 231.53
rubles.  OAO Mechel, Russia’s largest producer of coal for the steel
industry, advanced 2.1 percent, snapping three days of losses,
to 102.30 rubles.  OAO Rostelecom gained 1.2 percent after the Vedomosti
newspaper reported that minority shareholders who voted against
the state-run company’s restructuring tendered 31 percent of the
stock in a buyout.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Sweetman in Moscow at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  