-- Russia’s Grain Crop Estimates Fall as Rains Impede Farmers’ Work
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2013-08-16T11:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/russia-s-grain-crop-estimates-fall-as-rains-impede-farmers-work.html
Russia ’s grain crop forecasts were
lowered by consultants as showers are forecast to continue and
excessive moisture in fields hampers harvesting.  The grain crop will be 92.1 million to 93.7 million metric
tons in the 2013-14 season begun July 1 after rains impeded
reaping, said Igor Pavensky, head of the analytical department
at ZAO Rusagrotrans, the biggest grain carrier by rail. That
compares with a July forecast of 94 million to 96 million,
Pavensky said by phone from Moscow today.  OOO ProZerno, the Moscow-based agricultural consultancy,
lowered its forecast to 91.5 million tons from 92.4 million tons
last month, Vladimir Petrichenko, the company’s director
general, said by phone today.  Rains earlier this month delayed harvesting across the
central and Volga areas, according to state weather center data.
The Agriculture Ministry lowered its crop forecast on Aug. 14 to
90 million tons from its target of 95 million tons. The average
milling wheat price rose 2.7 percent in European Russia last
week, according to SovEcon consultancy data. Wheat for December
delivery fell 0.1 percent to $6.49 a bushel on the Chicago Board
of Trade by 3:26 p.m. Moscow time.  “There were cases when fields were flooded and harvesters
couldn’t enter,” Gulfira Rizayeva, executive director at a
branch of  Russia’s Peasants and Farmers Association in Tatarstan
Republic , said by phone from Kazan today.  Showers continue and are forecast in Perm, Tatarstan and
Bashkortostan regions in the Volga area through the weekend, and
rains are seen today at the Black-Earth regions of Tambov and
Voronezh in the center, the weather center  said  on its website
today.  Editor:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  