-- Ryanair Files Dublin Suit Against Channel 4 Over Safety Claims
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-08-16T16:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/ryanair-files-dublin-suit-against-channel-4-over-safety-claims.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  has initiated
defamation proceedings against Channel 4/Blakeway Productions
and others in the wake of a television documentary that
questioned its stance on safety, the carrier’s lawyer said.  “We have been instructed to vigorously prosecute these
libel proceedings,” Paul Tweed, senior partner at law firm
Johnsons, said in an e-mailed statement today. The action is
being brought in the  High Court  in Dublin.  The legal move comes a day after Ryanair dismissed Captain
John Goss, who appeared in the Channel 4 “ Dispatches ” program
that this week broadcast the safety concerns. The report relied
on a survey conducted by the Ryanair Pilots Group, which claims
to represent more than half of the carrier’s air crew.  Tweed said the program’s claims were “totally unfounded.”
Proceedings have also been issued against Associated Newspapers,
which publishes the  Daily Mail , and Mirror Group, whose titles
include the  Daily Mirror , as well as the Belfast Telegraph in
 Northern Ireland . More cases are pending, he said.  The Channel 4 program said Ryanair pilots are encouraged to
carry as little fuel as possible, causing three jets to declare
emergencies before touching down in Valencia, Spain, after
diversions from Madrid last year. Fuel emergencies are triggered
when pilots come close to having 30 minutes of fuel left.  Ryanair encourages crews to fly with additional kerosene if
the captain wishes to do so and the majority of its pilots carry
more than the required amount daily, Chief Executive Officer
 Michael O’Leary  said in an Aug. 13 interview.  Europe’s biggest low-cost airline also has no policy of
deleting cockpit voice recordings, O’Leary said in response to
assertions in the TV program, adding that pilots need to save
so-called black-box information themselves. The documentary said
crew members are also wary of raising concerns with the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  