-- Ryne Sandberg Gets Phillies Manager Job as Charlie Manuel Ousted
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-08-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/ryne-sandberg-gets-phillies-manager-job-as-manuel-is-ousted-1-.html
Hall of Famer Ryne Sandberg was
promoted to manage the Philadelphia Phillies, ending an eight-plus season tenure for Charlie Manuel that included a World
Series victory and five straight division titles.  The Phillies were held to three hits in a 4-0 loss to the
visiting Los Angeles Dodgers last night in the Major League
Baseball managerial debut for Sandberg, 53, who had been the
team’s third-base coach.  Phillies General Manager Ruben Amaro Jr. said at a news
conference earlier yesterday that he told Manuel the team would
not be renewing his contract for the 2014 season.  “As we talked a little further it became evident that the
best course of action was to make this change immediately, as we
begin the transition, by offering the managerial position to
Ryne Sandberg on an interim basis,” Amaro said.  Manuel has been offered a position within the organization.  “He’s a special person,” Amaro said. “I hope he stays.”  Manuel, 69, said he appreciated the offer and that he
needed to take some time off to “sit down and think.”  “I think I can manage for a couple more years, maybe two
or three years,” he said.  Manuel, who won the most games as manager in team history,
five days ago notched his 1,000th major league victory, becoming
the 59th manager to do so. His record this season was  53-67,
leaving the Phillies 20 1/2 games behind the Atlanta Braves in
the National League East when the managerial change was made.
Philadelphia has been slowed by injuries to pitcher Roy Halladay
and first baseman Ryan Howard, and went 4-19 in Manuel’s final
23 games.  World Series  The Phillies under Manuel won their first World Series in
28 years in 2008, and reached the championship round again the
following season before being beaten in six games by the  New
York  Yankees. The club won five straight division titles from
2007-11, including setting a franchise record with 102 wins two
seasons ago.  “Philadelphia has been the highlight of my career,”
Manuel said. “I love everything about the fans, I love the
city, I talk Philly baseball everywhere I go, and I want to go
out on a very positive attitude and note.”  Having also managed the Cleveland Indians from 2000-02,
Manuel’s major league record is 1,000-826. He was 780-636 with
Philadelphia.  His tenure was the third longest among active managers --
trailing Mike Scioscia of the Los Angeles Angels and the
Minnesota Twins’ Ron Gardenhire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  