-- Safaricom Rises to Record on Data Demand Jump: Nairobi Mover
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-08-16T12:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/safaricom-set-for-record-high-on-data-demand-jump-nairobi-mover.html
Safaricom Ltd.,  Kenya ’s biggest
company by market value, jumped to a record on bets that growing
demand for data and mobile-money transfers in East Africa’s
biggest economy will boost revenue.  Shares of the telecommunications company gained for a third
day, advancing 1.9 percent to 8.05 shillings by the closer in
Nairobi, the highest since they began trading in June 2008.
Almost 24 million shares were traded, equivalent to 1.4 times of
the three-month daily average.  Safaricom joins African phone companies looking to rising
demand for mobile Internet and money-transfer services to boost
revenue as earnings from calls and text messages diminish. In
the first quarter, Kenyan mobile-money subscriptions increased
10 percent from the previous three months to 23.2 million, while
data users rose to 9.6 million from 9.4 million, according to
the industry regulator.  Safaricom’s revenue for the year through March 2014 will
advance about 12 percent and its dividend will be “much
higher” than 0.31 shilling given to shareholders this year,
Kuria Kamau, a research analyst at Nairobi-based Kestrel Capital
( East Africa ) Ltd., said by phone today. “Revenue will be
driven by increased growth in data” and the company’s mobile
money transfer service, he said.  Steve Chege, head of regulatory and public policy
department at Safaricom, didn’t immediately respond to  e-mailed
questions.  Safaricom is the fifth-best performer on the FTSE NSE Kenya
25 Share Index this year, surging 59 percent. Net income in the
year through March jumped 39 percent to 17.5 billion shillings
($200 million).  The company’s 14-day relative strength index rose to 74.4.
A reading above 70 meaning a security may be overbought and
poised to fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  