-- Safety Board to ‘Let Things Go’ Without Cash, Chief Says
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   B e r n a r d   K o h n
-- 2013-08-16T19:51:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/safety-board-to-let-things-go-without-cash-chief-says.html
The U.S. National Transportation
Safety Board, running the most accident investigations since the
1990s, is “going to have to let some things go” if budget cuts
aren’t restored, Chairman  Deborah Hersman  said.  “We’re getting very stretched,” Hersman, nominated this
month by President  Barack Obama  to a third term, said yesterday
in an interview for Bloomberg Television’s “Capitol Gains” to
air Aug. 18.  “It becomes, again, more difficult for us to launch”
investigating teams, Hersman said. “We’re having to scale down
the sizes of our launches, the types of tests that we want to
conduct. We’re having to right-size those based on our budget. I
think if we continue to face additional cuts that the traveling
public will not be served and safety will not be served.”
Hersman didn’t say which tasks might be dropped.  The board is responsible for investigating commercial
transportation accidents in the U.S. and making safety
recommendations to regulators. It doesn’t have the power to make
rules on its own.  Its workload increased with this week’s deadly crash of a
 United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  cargo plane in Alabama. It was
already investigating a Southwest Airlines Inc. hard landing
July 22 in New York and the  Asiana Airlines Inc. (020560)  accident in  San
Francisco  on July 6, the first in the U.S. of a commercial
airliner involving fatalities since 2009.  Planes, Trains  The board is also probing a half-dozen private-plane
accidents, a train crash in Connecticut involving about 700
passengers, two highway-bridge collapses, a  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 fire
in London and even a Maryland car wreck.  The 413-employee agency had its annual budget cut by $5
million, to $97 million, as part of the automatic spending
reductions known as sequestration just before the streak of
accidents began.  “Many of our investigators are going directly from one
accident scene to another,” Hersman said.  “Summer is traditionally a busy time for us anyway, but
this year has been even more so,” she said. “We’re doing this
in the middle of a hiring freeze, in the middle of limiting
overtime, limiting training. All of these things will have an
impact on our ability to launch investigations and to complete
them in a timely manner.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bernard Kohn in Washington at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  