-- ICE Clears SEC Regulatory Approval for NYSE Euronext Deal
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-08-16T15:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/sec-approves-intercontinentalexchange-takeover-of-nyse.html
U.S. securities regulators approved
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) ’s acquisition of  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ,
bringing the company one step closer to taking over some of the
biggest stock and derivatives exchanges in America and  Europe .  The companies still require approval from individual
country regulators in Europe. IntercontinentalExchange agreed on
Dec. 20 to acquire NYSE Euronext for cash and stock totaling
$8.2 billion at the time. The Securities and Exchange Commission
said in a filing yesterday it  approved  a rule change required to
complete the deal.  IntercontinentalExchange, the energy and commodity futures
bourse known as ICE, is buying the U.S. equity exchange operator
as the profitability of stock trading declines and derivatives
generate more income. European Union regulators approved the
deal on June 24 after blocking  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s purchase of
NYSE last year, citing concern over competition in derivatives
and clearing.  “It’s positive for the NYSE because they clearly needed a
partner,” Ben Schwartz, the Chicago-based chief market
strategist at broker Lightspeed Financial Inc., said by phone.
“The SEC and the European regulators are doing the right thing
by allowing this merger. It’ll be good for the marketplace.”  NYSE  shares  rose 0.4 percent to $42.03 at 10:50 a.m. New
York time. They have gained 33 percent this year, twice the
advance in the Bloomberg World Exchanges Index of 27 bourses.
IntercontinentalExchange added 0.5 percent to $181.23, extending
its 2013 advance to 46 percent.  NYSE, ICE  Rich Adamonis , a spokesman for NYSE Euronext, and  Kelly Loeffler , a spokeswoman for IntercontinentalExchange, said the
SEC decision was welcome.  IntercontinentalExchange, which bought the New York Board
of Trade in 2007 and renamed it ICE Futures U.S., has said it
will keep the NYSE Euronext brand. The merged company will
maintain dual headquarters in Atlanta and New York.  IntercontinentalExchange Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Sprecher  said Aug. 6 that the exchanges expect the deal “will
be finalized this fall.” Shareholders of both companies
approved the transaction in June.  Merging NYSE Euronext, which owns the biggest exchanges by
value of listings in the U.S.,  France  and the Netherlands, with
the second-largest futures market underscores both the growing
importance of derivatives and the diminishing influence of the
 New York  Stock Exchange, founded more than two centuries ago
under a buttonwood tree in New York. ICE plans to spin off
Euronext, the Continental European equity markets of NYSE.  Populist outcry, antitrust concern and some of the most
volatile markets on record have prevented the completion of more
than $32 billion in announced exchange transactions, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg on deals since October 2010 that
were valued at $1 billion or more.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  