-- Soilbuild Business Space REIT Drops in Debut: Singapore Mover
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-08-16T07:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/soilbuild-business-space-reit-drops-in-debut-singapore-mover.html
Soilbuild Business Space REIT (SBREIT) ,
whose assets include business parks and industrial properties in
Singapore, fell in the city-state’s biggest initial public
offering since May, tracking declines in the broader market.  The shares opened at S$0.77 at 2 p.m. local time and
dropped as much as 7.7 percent to S$0.72 compared with the IPO
price of S$0.78 apiece. The REIT raised S$626.7 million ($494
million), offering 586.5 million units. Lim Chap Huat, co-founder of Soilbuild Group Holdings Ltd., the developer which
partly owns the REIT, pledged to buy an additional 216.9 million
units, according to a preliminary  prospectus . The public offer
was approximately 5.4 times subscribed, a company statement
yesterday showed.  “I would attribute the decline to the market weakness
today,” Tricia Song, an analyst at Barclays Plc in  Singapore ,
said. “Soilbuild had a decent response to the IPO.”  Stocks in Asia fell with Singapore’s benchmark Straits
Times Index dropping as much as 1.3 percent, while bond risk
rose after an unexpected drop in U.S. jobless claims fueled
speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will cut stimulus. Property
trusts in the island-state face refinancing risks when borrowing
costs rise, which may force them to sell assets or shares to
boost their funding, Fitch Ratings said in March.  Soilbuild REIT’s initial portfolio holds seven properties,
comprising two business park developments and five industrial
projects, with a net leaseable area of about 3 million square
feet.  Business Parks  Of the estimated S$928.8 million raised from the IPO, the
units subscribed by Lim and a term loan facility, S$820.5
million will be used to pay for Solaris business park, Eightrium
@ Changi Business Park, Tuas Connection and West Park
BizCentral, the company said in a statement yesterday. Another
S$84.8 million will go toward repaying existing private-trust
debt and the balance for the payment of IPO-related costs and
working capital.  REITs and business trusts were the biggest fundraisers in
Singapore’s IPO market in the past year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Soilbuild REIT offers a dividend yield of
7.7 percent based on projections for fiscal 2014. That compares
with an average yield of 3.24 percent for the Straits Times
Index.  Citigroup Inc.,  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  and Oversea-Chinese
Banking Corp. managed the offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  