-- South Korea Bonds, Won Set for Weekly Drops as Fed Seen Tapering
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-08-16T01:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/south-korea-bonds-won-set-for-weekly-drops-as-fed-seen-tapering.html
South Korea ’s bonds headed for a
weekly loss, with the three-year yield touching a five-week high,
and the won dropped on signs the U.S. will pare stimulus that
has spurred fund flows to  emerging markets .  Initial jobless claims in the world’s largest economy fell
to the least in almost six years, official data showed this week,
and 65 percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect the
 Federal Reserve  to reduce $85 billion of monthly bond buying in
September. South Korean producer prices declined 0.9 percent in
July from a year earlier after a 1.4 percent drop in June, the
central bank said in a statement today.  “Speculation that Fed tapering will start soon is gaining
momentum,” Park Dongjin, a fixed-income analyst at Samsung
Futures Inc. in Seoul, wrote in a research note today. “The U.S.
economic data come out mostly better than forecast.”  The yield on the 2.75 percent sovereign bonds due June 2016
increased eight basis points this week to 2.99 percent as of
10:19 a.m. in  Seoul , according to Korea Exchange Inc. prices. It
rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, today and
touched 3 percent earlier, the highest since July 9.  Net capital outflows reached $31 billion in the first half
and, if they continue at the same pace for the rest of the year,
will beat 2008’s record of $43 billion, Kwon Young Sun, a Hong
Kong-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in a
research note yesterday. The outflows are being driven by local
rather than foreign investors, he wrote.  The won fell 0.3 percent this week to 1,115.3 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency climbed
0.3 percent from Aug. 14. South Korean financial markets were
closed yesterday for a public holiday.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, increased 16 basis
points this week to 7.01 percent. It rose one basis point today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  