-- Stylish ‘Othello’ Marks Cimolino’s Stratford Debut: Stage
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-08-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/stylish-othello-marks-cimolino-s-stratford-debut-stage.html
The magisterial Moor bellows with a
Caribbean lilt and poor doomed Desdemona chirps like a wounded
starling in the  Stratford Festival’s  stylish, well-spoken
rendition of “Othello.”  Directed by Chris Abraham, it’s also glorious to look at,
both for the beauty of the actors and Julie Fox’s stunning set,
a masterpiece of simplicity that avoids the usual travelogue
setting (the play takes place in picturesque  Venice  and stormy
Cyprus).  Instead, the stage of the intimate Avon Theatre is
dominated by towering scarlet walls and a square, steeply raked
black platform that revolves, taking us from roiling city
streets to Desdemona’s intimate bed chamber.  Othello is the “thick-lipped” general whose tales of
swashbuckling conquest in the service of the Venetian state have
charmed the fair daughter of nobleman Brabantio into marriage,
scandalizing her father and her wimpy suitor Roderigo.  That’s enough to set in motion the evil machinations of
Iago, the battle veteran infuriated that Othello has promoted
the untested Cassio over him. He vows revenge by planting the
seeds of jealousy, that “green-eyed monster.”  Dion Johnstone is an attractive Othello. But he lacks the
charisma and stature that give both his ascent and his dizzying
fall from grace the power to divert us from wondering how such
an accomplished, self-assured man could be such an idiot.  Tortured Iago  As Iago, Graham Abbey resists mustache-twirling villainy,
playing instead a careerist tortured by unfair treatment.  Yet this, too, seems to detract from the essential evil of
a character whose credo is that the universe is ruled by a God
who is inattentive at best and indifferent at worst (something
Verdi conveyed with crystalline precision in his great opera).  Bethany Jillard’s Desdemona comes to vibrant life only in
her death scene, pounding away at her master as Othello
strangles and, for good measure, suffocates her.  In addition to Fox’s beautiful setting and traditional
costumes, the show gets excellent support from Thomas Ryder
Payne’s terrific music underscoring and the great fights staged
by John Stead.  This striking production marks the midpoint of Antoni
Cimolino’s first season as artistic director, following the
popular  Des McAnuff . Stratford always has something for
everyone; the choices range from serious Shakespeare to
“Fiddler on the Roof,” “Blithe Spirit” and a revival of
McAnuff’s production of “The Who’s ‘Tommy’”.  “Othello” runs through Oct. 19 at the Stratford Festival,
Stratford, Ontario. Information: +1-800-567-1600;
 http://www.stratfordfestival.ca . Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  movies  and New York  Weekend .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 