-- Swiss Lawyer Pleads Guilty, Helps in U.S. Tax Probe
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-08-17T00:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/swiss-lawyer-pleads-guilty-helps-in-u-s-tax-probe.html
A Swiss lawyer pleaded guilty in a
U.S. probe of offshore tax evasion and has been telling
prosecutors how he helped American clients use secret accounts
to hide assets from the  Internal Revenue Service .  Edgar Paltzer, 57, admitted today in federal court in  New
York  that he conspired for more than a decade to commit  tax
fraud  by helping U.S. clients hide millions of dollars. He was
indicted on April 16 with a Swiss banker, Stefan Buck.  Paltzer is cooperating with U.S. authorities in their
broader investigation of how foreign banks and advisers helped
American clients evade taxes, his lawyer, Thomas Ostrander,
said.  “His cooperation is complete and without any limitation,”
Ostrander said outside of court. “He very quickly made a
decision to face these charges and come to the U.S.”  Paltzer’s assistance offers investigators a rare inside
look at how Swiss bankers and advisers used sham trusts and
corporations and moved cash and jewelry across borders to hide
their assets from the IRS. Since 2008, the U.S. has charged at
least 90 people in a crackdown on offshore  tax evasion ,
including two dozen bankers, lawyers and advisers.  Paltzer admitted that from 2000 to 2012 he acted as a
financial intermediary, helping U.S. taxpayers escape taxes on
worldwide income.  Hidden Accounts  “I intentionally formed foundations and corporations which
permitted these U.S. taxpayers to hide from the IRS these
accounts and the income earned in these accounts,” he told U.S.
Magistrate Judge Ronald Ellis. “I assisted these taxpayers in
violating their legal duties. I was aware that this conduct was
wrong.”  He admitted communicating with clients using code words
such as “postcards” to refer to checks sent from an
undisclosed account.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Jason Cowley said today that
Paltzer had control of, and access to, bank vaults in Zurich,
where U.S. taxpayers had stashed assets and valuables.  Ellis yesterday signed a court order prohibiting Paltzer,
his wife, or anyone else acting as their agent, from
transferring, distributing or moving assets held in safes at
five numbered bank vaults at  UBS AG (UBSN)  in Zurich.  Cowley said Paltzer helped dozens of U.S. taxpayers
maintain undeclared Swiss accounts with “millions and millions
of dollars in undeclared assets.” When some Swiss banks decided
to close accounts amid the U.S. crackdown, Paltzer helped
American taxpayers move accounts to other Swiss banks, he said.  Dual Citizenship  Paltzer, who holds dual U.S. and Swiss citizenship and is
licensed to practice law in New York, flew to Manhattan two days
ago for the first time since his indictment, and was taken into
custody by IRS agents, said Ostrander, a partner at Duane Morris
LLP. He is returning to  Switzerland , Ostrander said.  Paltzer also has agreed to pay restitution and forfeit fees
earned from his crime. He faces a potential prison term of five
years, though as a cooperator he’d probably get less.  The U.S. crackdown accelerated after 2009, when UBS,
Switzerland’s largest bank, avoided prosecution by paying
$780 million, admitting it aided U.S. tax evasion and handing
over data on 4,500 accounts. Last year, the U.S. indicted
Wegelin & Co., the oldest Swiss private bank. Wegelin pleaded
guilty in January, handing over $74 million.  Avoiding Prosecution  On July 31,  Liechtensteinische Landesbank AG (LLB) , the oldest
bank in Liechtenstein, avoided U.S. prosecution by agreeing to
pay $23.8 million and admitting it helped clients hide as much
as $341 million from the IRS.  Paltzer pleaded today to a charging document called a
criminal information.  His more-detailed indictment describes his assistance to
clients including a California woman who hid $3.1 million in an
undeclared account she inherited from her father. The account
was allegedly held at UBS in the name of a sham foundation in
Liechtenstein.  Paltzer helped the woman move the money to another Swiss
bank, set up an “off-the-shelf corporation” in the British
Virgin Islands, and sent her e-mails referring to checks sent
from the account as “postcards,” prosecutors said.  He allegedly helped another client in  Connecticut 
repatriate millions of dollars through jewelry that he had
delivered to him, including a $1.98 million ruby ring and
$1.7 million in loose diamonds.  Bank Frey  Buck, who was indicted with Paltzer, was Bank Frey & Co.’s
head of private banking in Switzerland and a member of the
executive board, according to the bank. Zurich-based Bank Frey,
said at the time of the indictment it was “reviewing the legal
situation that derives from the indictment brought against a
member of its executive board.”  Buck, a Swiss citizen, lives in Switzerland and remains at
large.  From March 2009 to February 2012, Buck’s bank experienced
an increase of about 300 percent in clients who were U.S.
taxpayers, U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan  said in a
statement at the time of the indictment.  As of Sept. 30, the bank had about 2 billion Swiss francs
($2.17 billion) in assets under management, according to the
indictment. About 882.5 million francs, or 44 percent of the
total, was held on behalf of U.S. taxpayers living in the U.S.,
he said.  Since 2009, 38,000 Americans have avoided prosecution
through an IRS amnesty program that let them repatriate their
accounts by paying back taxes and penalties.  The case is U.S. v Paltzer, 13-cr-00282, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey  at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  