-- Bernanke Order for AIG Bailout Testimony Appealed by U.S.
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-08-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/u-s-seeks-to-appeal-ruling-requiring-bernanke-aig-testimony.html
The U.S. appealed a court order that
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  should be required to
testify in Maurice “Hank” Greenberg’s lawsuit over the
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  bailout.  The trial judge in the Court of Federal Claims lawsuit, in
which Greenberg’s closely held Starr International Co. seeks $25
billion from the U.S. for allegedly violating AIG shareholders
constitutional rights, erred by citing the stakes in the case
and Bernanke’s role as an “extraordinary circumstance”
warranting his testimony, the  Justice Department  said.  “Under the trial court’s reasoning, any person with a
grievance related to any decision in which the Federal Reserve
chairman has personally participated, might equally be entitled
to take his deposition,” the department argued in its filing in
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in Washington.  Greenberg claims the assumption of 80 percent of the AIG’s
stock by the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  in September 2008
was a taking of property that violated shareholders’ rights to
due process and equal protection of the law.  Judge Thomas Wheeler of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims
ruled on July 29 that Bernanke would have to testify in the case
-- something Starr has contended is necessary because of his
role in the transaction.  Wheeler, who said he will attend the deposition to provide
judicial oversight, said obtaining testimony from high-level
U.S. officials has been a “relatively routine practice” in
claims court when the individual has personal knowledge of
relevant information.  In a related filing, the U.S. asked Wheeler to allow an
appeal to the Federal Circuit of his ruling that the suit can
proceed.  The case is Starr International Co. v. U.S., 11-cv-00779,
U.S. Court of Federal Claims ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 