-- U.S. Steel Names Longhi to Be Next CEO as Surma Retires
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-08-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/u-s-steel-names-longhi-to-be-next-ceo-as-surma-retires.html
U.S. Steel Corp. (X) , the country’s
biggest steelmaker by volume, is promoting Chief Operating
Officer Mario Longhi to replace John Surma as chief executive
officer.  Longhi will assume the new position Sept. 1 and Surma, 59,
will remain as executive chairman until he retires at year-end,
the Pittsburgh-based company said yesterday in a statement.  “Surma’s tenure at U.S. Steel was characterized by shaking
things up,”  Michelle Applebaum , managing partner at consultant
Steel Market Intelligence in  Chicago , said by phone. “The way
he’s exiting is the way he ran the company.”  Surma expanded the company’s pipe and tube division, its
most profitable, and sold the loss-making Serbian division.  “He’s been an energizing leader at the company at a time
they needed real leadership,” Applebaum said.  Before joining U.S. Steel last year, Longhi worked at
Gerdau Ameristeel Corp., the U.S. unit of  Brazil ’s Gerdau SA,
where he was CEO from 2006 to 2011. Prior to joining Gerdau, he
spent 23 years at U.S. aluminum producer Alcoa Inc.  U.S. Steel said in a separate statement that David Burritt
will become chief financial officer after current CFO Gretchen Haggerty retires on Aug. 31. Burritt, 58, was CFO at Caterpillar
Inc. until 2010.  U.S. Steel has had annual adjusted losses in three of the
past four years and is expected to post a loss of $188.5 million
this year, according to the average of 12 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Steelmakers have struggled to be
profitable amid low prices and competition from imports since
the global financial crisis began in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  