-- U.S. Consumer Confidence Falls From a Six-Year High
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-08-16T14:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/u-s-consumer-confidence-falls-from-a-six-year-high.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S.
unexpectedly dropped in August from a six-year high as Americans
faced rising interest rates.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
 index  of consumer sentiment fell to 80 from 85.1 in July, which
was the highest since July 2007. The median projection of 68
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for little change at
85.2. The decline this month was the biggest since December.  Higher mortgage rates are threatening to crimp momentum in
the housing market that’s contributed to the economic expansion.
At the same time, job growth and increased personal wealth tied
to  stock portfolios  and home values are helping offset the
effects of higher payroll taxes and federal government budget
cuts that began early this year.  “Interest rates are going up a little bit, that never
helps,” Paul Ashworth, chief U.S. economist at Capital
Economics in Toronto, said before the report. “But we still
have the background of what looks like a still-improving housing
market.”  Stocks were little changed after the report. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.1 percent to 1,659.24 at 10:23 a.m.
in New York.  Survey Results  Estimates (CONSSENT)  in the Bloomberg survey of economists ranged from
82 to 87. The index averaged 89 in the five years leading up to
the last recession that began in December 2007 and 64.2 during
the 18-month slump that ended in June 2009.  The early August setback in the Michigan index was larger
than projected by the weekly Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index,
which slipped from its highest level in more than five years.
The comfort gauge fell to minus 26.6 for the period ended Aug.
11, its first drop in a month. The reading was the second-strongest since January 2008, behind the prior week’s minus
23.5.  The Michigan survey’s  current conditions  index, which takes
stock of Americans’ view of their personal finances, dropped to
91 from a six-year high of 98.6 in July. The 7.6 point decline
was the biggest in three years.  The group’s index of  expectations  six months from now
decreased to 72.9 in August from 76.5 last month.  Inflation Outlook  Americans expect an inflation rate of 3.1 percent over the
next year, the same as in July. Over the next five years,
Americans expect a 2.8 percent rate of inflation, also unchanged
from last month.  Consumers continue to cope with elevated unemployment and
higher taxes, which is hurting sales of non-discretionary
merchandise.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer,
cut its annual profit forecast this week after shoppers’
reluctance to buy more than the bare necessities hurt second-quarter sales.  “The U.S. retail environment remains challenging, with
virtually no inflation in food and the higher payroll tax,”
Chief Financial Officer Charles Holley said on an Aug. 15
earnings call. “Our expectations for the back half of the year
are through a lens of cautious consumer spending.”  Some retailers are reporting higher foot traffic as the
effects of this year’s higher taxes begin to wear off and
consumer spending picks up. At  Tumi Holdings Inc. (TUMI) , a high-end
luggage maker based in South Plainfield, New Jersey, sales were
up 13 percent in the second quarter from the same period a year
ago. Mobile phone covers and leather accessories are selling
fast, Chief Executive Officer Jerome Griffith said.  “I feel pretty good about the back part of the year,”
Griffith said on an Aug. 7 earnings call. “At the end of the
day, part of it’s going to depend on consumer sentiment and
people walking in through the doors. If it continues the way
that we see it right now, it’s going to be a pretty good back
half of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  