-- Luminant Sued by EPA Over Texas Clean Air Violation Claims
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-08-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/luminant-sued-by-epa-over-texas-clean-air-violation-claims-1-.html
Luminant Generation Co., the largest
power generator in  Texas , was sued by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency over air-pollution standards for two power
plants.  The enforcement action, which was filed under seal in
federal court in Dallas, follows two earlier EPA notices of
violations of the U.S. Clean Air Act by the Big Brown plant in
Freestone County and the Martin Lake plant, located in Rusk and
Panola counties.  Energy Future Holdings Corp., Luminant’s closely held
parent company, disclosed the EPA violation notices in its Aug.
2 regulatory filing.  “We are in the process of evaluating the allegations
outlined in the suit, but we firmly believe that we have
complied with all requirements of the Clean Air Act for the Big
Brown and Martin Lake power plants,” Meranda Cohn, a
spokeswoman for Luminant, said in an e-mailed statement.  Stacy Kika, an EPA spokeswoman, referred questions to the
Justice Department. Wyn Hornbuckle, a U.S. Justice Department
spokesman, declined to comment.  Energy Future, based in  Dallas , has asked the U.S. Court of
Appeals in New Orleans to review both EPA notices, which allege
the pair of coal-burning plants failed to obtain certain
permits, according to company filings.  Pollution Controls  “While dozens of other utilities nationwide are investing
in clean energy, installing modern pollution controls to reduce
pollution and retire aging coal plants, Luminant stands out as
one of the nation’s very worst actors,” Nia Martin-Robinson, a
spokeswoman for the  Sierra Club ’s Beyond Coal  campaign  in Texas,
said in a statement. “It burns the dirtiest possible coal --
known as lignite -- and has repeatedly refused to install modern
pollution controls.”  Energy Future was formed in 2007 when investors led by
 Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. (KKR) , TPG and Goldman Sachs Capital
Partners bought TXU Corp. and took it private.  Energy Future said Aug. 2 that it’s in talks with creditors
and is evaluating changes to its capital structure that include
a voluntarily filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy for some or all
of the company, excluding power line-unit Oncor Electric
Delivery.  Energy Future’s total debt was $43.55 billion at the end of
June, according to a filing.  The case is U.S. v. Luminant Generation Co., 3:13-3236,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  