-- Hungary to Pay Compensation for Bungling Probe of Murders
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-08-16T07:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/hungary-to-pay-compensation-for-bungling-probe-of-murders.html
Hungary  will compensate the families
of victims of one the country’s worst racially motivated serial
murders since World War II, citing shortcomings in a probe into
the deaths of six ethnic Roma, including a five-year-old boy and
his father.  An inquiry will “probably find” that law enforcement
officials “committed errors or omission,” including ones for
which they may bear “criminal responsibility,” Human Resources
Minister Zoltan Balog told reporters yesterday.  The murders in 2008 and 2009 took place in four different
locations and focused attention on racism against the mostly
impoverished community of Roma, or Gypsies, Hungary’s largest
minority. Three Roma were initially arrested in 2008 for one of
the crimes and spent 11 months in custody before charges were
dropped, Index news website said on Aug. 6.  “We know specifically that the life of the last victim may
have been saved had the secret service and the police worked
together properly,” Balog said.  A Budapest court on Aug. 6 sentenced three men to  life
imprisonment  without parole for murder while a fourth was
sentenced to 13 years. The sentences can be appealed.  The crimes took place in rural areas, several of them
during the night. The father and son were murdered while they
were trying to escape their house after it was set ablaze with
Molotov cocktails. Another was shot in bed. A fourth person was
shot to death while leaving for work, while the fifth and sixth
victims were shot in an attack while their home was set ablaze.  A team of 120 police officers hunted the perpetrators
before arresting the suspects in August 2009. Police said the
killers had been planning three other attacks.  The radical nationalist Jobbik party became the second-largest parliamentary group in 2010 after campaigning against
what it billed as “Roma crime” as inter-ethnic tensions
escalated during the country’s second recession in four years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  