-- Ways and Means Chairman Camp Won’t Run for Senate in 2014
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-08-16T21:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/ways-and-means-chairman-camp-won-t-run-for-senate-in-2014.html
House Ways and Means Committee
Chairman Dave Camp won’t seek the open U.S. Senate seat next
year in  Michigan .  “I will continue to put my full focus and effort on
serving my constituents,” Camp said in a statement today.
“That includes creating a stronger economy by making the tax
code more effective and efficient; opening new markets for
American goods and services; and, critical oversight of
Obamacare and the IRS.”  Republican rules will require Camp to give up the Ways and
Means chairmanship at the end of 2014 unless he receives a
waiver to continue. Camp’s office didn’t immediately return a
message seeking comment.  Camp, 60, was considering a run for the seat being vacated
by Democratic Senator Carl Levin.  First elected to the U.S. House in 1990, Camp has been
chairman of the influential tax-writing panel since 2011 and was
the top ranking Republican on the committee for the two years
before that.  He has been working with Senate Finance Committee Chairman
Max Baucus, a Montana Democrat, on a broad overhaul of the U.S.
tax code and said he plans to advance legislation through his
panel to lower tax rates for individuals and companies.  Camp has been one of the top campaign fundraisers in the
House, bringing in $4.48 million in 2011 and 2012, among the top
20 totals for any House candidate during that time, Federal
Elections Commission data shows.  Michigan Race  Republicans need to win six additional Senate seats next
year to control the chamber. Camp is the latest Republican to
turn down the chance to do that in Michigan. Fellow Michigan
Representative Mike Rogers also has said he won’t run for the
seat.  Democratic Representative Gary Peters and former Secretary
of State Terri Lynn Land, a Republican, have announced campaigns
for the office.  In July 2012, Camp announced that a routine physical exam
had detected “a very early, highly treatable and curable type
of non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma.” He began periodic chemotherapy and
was able to generally continue his legislative duties.  In the two months after his diagnosis, Camp wasn’t present
for about a third of the roll-call votes, though he didn’t miss
work for any extended period. In December 2012, Camp’s office
said in a statement that his doctors “have declared him cancer-free.”  Welfare System  In 1996, Camp played a key role in developing an overhaul
the welfare system, placing more emphasis on creating incentives
and opportunities for welfare recipients to work.  Camp’s support for his economically troubled home state of
Michigan in 2008 trumped the party line, as he voted in the Ways
and Means Committee for extended  unemployment  benefits. That
same year, when only 32 Republicans supported the federal
bailout of the auto industry, Camp and seven other Michigan
Republicans backed the bill. He also voted for the financial
industry bailout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  