-- Wiesmann Files for Insolvency as Luxury car Demand Wanes
-- B y   W e i x i n   Z h a
-- 2013-08-16T13:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/wiesmann-files-for-insolvency-as-luxury-car-demand-wanes.html
Wiesmann GmbH, a German maker of
retro-style luxury sports cars, has filed for insolvency at a
local court and said it’s seeking strategic partners and
investors.  Rolf Haferkamp remains chief executive officer and plans to
restructure the company, Wiesmann said in a statement yesterday.
Operations will continue at the headquarters and plant in
Duelmen. Engines are supplied by  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ,
the world’s biggest maker of  luxury vehicles .  Wiesmann was founded 25 years ago by brothers Martin and
Friedhelm Wiesmann, who developed the first prototype in the
cellar of their home. The company, which markets cars combining
“timeless design and modern technology" -- has 110 employees and
has sold more than 1,600 of its handmade vehicles with maximum
annual sales of about 200 in Europe, the  Middle East  and Asia.  The European car market has showed the signs of
improvement as a recession ended in the 17 countries using the
euro. Car sales in July rose in Germany, France, the U.K. and
Spain, and the decline in  Italy  was the least this year,
following a drop across the region in June to the lowest demand
since 1996.  Niche Manufacturers  It’s difficult for niche companies to keep up with
innovation and economies of scale in the car industry, said
 Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center of Automotive Management
at the University of Applied Sciences in  Bergisch Gladbach ,
Germany.  ‘‘Wiesmann may have been hit by declining sales within
Europe’s car industry,” he said. "Often, it’s a mix between
decreasing sales and rising costs for production and design that
drives niche producers into insolvency.’’  Wiesmann filed for creditor protection -- a process
comparable to Chapter 11 in the U.S. -- at the Muenster court on
Aug. 14, the company said. The court appointed Norbert Kuepper
as the insolvency administrator.  Fellow German sports-car maker Artega GmbH & Co KG filed
for insolvency in June 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weixin Zha in Frankfurt at 
 wzha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  