-- Zimbabwe’s Tsvangirai Drops Suit to Have Election Overturned
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   F r a n k   J o m o
-- 2013-08-16T18:32:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-16/zimbabwe-s-tsvangirai-withdraws-suit-to-have-election-overturned.html
Morgan Tsvangirai , leader of
 Zimbabwe ’s Movement for Democratic Change, withdrew a lawsuit
aimed at overturning the outcome of last month’s elections,
saying the Constitutional Court failed to guarantee a fair
hearing.  President  Robert Mugabe , who has ruled the southern African
nation for the past 33 years, won another five-year term in the
July 31 election, while his Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front captured a two-thirds parliamentary majority.
The MDC says ZANU-PF used the security forces to control the
voting process and the electoral roll was manipulated to
disenfranchise thousands of its supporters.  While African observers praised the election, the U.S.,
U.K., European Union and domestic observers said irregularities
had compromised its credibility. In an Aug. 12 speech in Harare,
Mugabe said critics of his victory can “go hang.”  “The election petition has been withdrawn,” Douglas
Mwonzora, a spokesman for Tsvangirai, the country’s outgoing
prime minister, said in an interview today. “The trial was
going to be a mockery of justice.”  ‘Far From Resolved’  In a filing with the  Constitutional Court , Tsvangirai said
the opposing side’s failure to deliver essential documents for
the case, as well as “very wide adverse pretrial publicity
which has been championed by the state media” have made it
useless to pursue his legal challenge.  The “situation is far from resolved and on my part as the
leader of my political party I shall endeavor to use all
democratic means to bring about the successful resolution of
this issue,” Tsvangirai said in today’s filing.  ZANU-PF lost its parliamentary majority in the last
elections in 2008, while Mugabe retained the presidency after
Tsvangirai pulled out of a run-off vote due to concerns about
violence directed against his supporters. Regional mediators
then forced Mugabe, 89, and two factions of the MDC into a unity
government.  Mugabe can now be sworn in as president, Mwonzora said.  The president, arriving today in Malawi for a summit of
southern African leaders, said he rejects objections to the
election by the U.S. and U.K.  “The problem is the West wants to think for us and take
decisions for us and even direct us as to which direction they
want us to go,” he said at the airport in Malawi’s capital,
Lilongwe. “I have nothing to do with the British, nothing to do
with the Americans.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Jomo in Blantyre at 
 fjomo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  