-- Labour Tells U.K. Developers Hoarding Land ‘Use It Or Lose it’
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-06-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/labour-tells-u-k-developers-hoarding-land-use-it-or-lose-it-.html
A Labour government may give local
authorities “use it or lose it” powers to stop developers
hoarding land needed for homebuilding, opposition leader Ed Miliband will say today.  Although some “land banking” is needed to maintain a
supply of sites, in too many cases developers are sitting on
land with planning permission and waiting for the value to
increase, Miliband will tell Labour’s National Policy Forum in
Birmingham.  “Nobody should be in any doubt about this Labour Party’s
determination to rebuild this country, get our construction
industry working again and give families a decent chance of
owning a decent home for their children just like their parents
did before them,” Miliband will say, according to extracts of
his speech released by his office.  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne announced in
March a program to help people struggling to afford a home and
spur new construction. The International Monetary Fund said the
plan risks pushing up house prices and called on the government
to consider tax disincentives for holding land without
development.  Under Labour’s proposal, local authorities would be able to
charge developers fees for hoarding land unnecessarily or, as a
last resort, issue a compulsory purchase order, Miliband will
say.  “All options should be on the table including giving local
authorities real power to say to the worst offenders that they
should either use the land, or lose the land,” he will say.
“Permission to build should mean landowners build. If there is
unnecessary hoarding, developers should be encouraged to do what
they are in business to do: build houses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  