-- Big Banks Don’t Owe Madoff Estate $30 Billion, Court Says
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-06-20T20:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/madoff-trustee-loses-bid-to-reinstate-30-billion-bank-claims.html
Banks including  JPMorgan Chase & (JPM)  Co.
and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  can’t be sued by the Bernard Madoff firm’s
liquidator for $30 billion because he is tainted by the con
man’s fraud, an appeals court ruled.  Madoff trustee  Irving Picard  appealed rulings barring him
from demanding damages from banks that allegedly ignored
Madoff’s fraud for the sake of fees. Federal district judges
 Colleen McMahon  and Jed Rakoff, both in Manhattan, had said
Picard can’t accuse the banks of fraud because he’s the trustee
for a fraudulent enterprise, citing a legal principal called in
pari delicto.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York agreed today, saying
Picard’s “scattershot responses” had “missed the mark.”  “Picard stands in the shoes of BLMIS and may not assert
claims against third parties for participating in a fraud that
BLMIS orchestrated,” according to the ruling by three judges
including Chief Judge Dennis Jacobs.  BLMIS is the former securities firm of Madoff, who
orchestrated the biggest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history, reporting
a mostly fictitious $65 billion in assets. His fraud cost
customers an estimated $17 billion in principal.  Picard’s defeat today means that Ponzi customers will have
a smaller pot from which to recover their remaining losses, and
some investors who bought discounted claims on the con man’s
estate may lose the bets they made.  ‘Not Positive’  “It’s certainly not a positive that the trustee lost
against the big banks,” said  Joseph Sarachek , managing director
of claims trading at CRT Capital Group LLC, which buys and sells
distressed debt. For Madoff’s customers to get all their money
back, Sarachek estimates, Picard must collect billions of
dollars, “and who but the big banks have that?”  The judges’ ruling was “well reasoned,” said JPMorgan and
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , also sued by Picard. The decision “affirms our
view that the trustee’s common-law claims lacked merit,”
 Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan,
said in an e-mail. HSBC declined to comment.  Picard is reviewing the decision, spokeswoman Amanda Remus
said in an e-mail. He has about $4 billion of other claims
against the banks that he is “vigorously” pursuing, she said.  Picard could ask for a second hearing by more appeals court
judges, or take his case to the U.S. Supreme Court, though his
odds of winning are low, said Chip Bowles, a bankruptcy lawyer
with Bingham Greenebaum Doll LLP in Louisville,  Kentucky .  ‘Low Chance’  “For this much money, I think he will try,” Bowles said.
Both avenues of appeal have “a very low chance of success,” he
said.  Two other appeals courts have ruled that a trustee
liquidating a fraudulent business can’t accuse other parties of
fraud. A court in Richmond, Virginia, in May said a bank
allegedly holding Ponzi customers’ money couldn’t be sued, and a
Chicago court in April 2012 said a trustee couldn’t sue
accountants for not detecting a  Ponzi scheme .  The New York appeal judges said at the end of their ruling
that they would leave it to Congress to change the law if
legislators wanted to empower trustees to bring such lawsuits.  Picard has so far paid investors almost $4.8 billion from
the Madoff estate’s customer fund, out of about $17 billion of
estimated lost principal, according to his website.  Legal Settlements  Mostly by settling earlier lawsuits against individuals who
allegedly knew of the fraud, he gathered a total of about $9.3
billion to compensate approved customers of the jailed con man.
The Securities Investor Protection Corp. has paid customers
about $705 million.  Some bankruptcy experts faulted the legal principle that
knocked Picard out of court, barring him from alleging that
banks defrauded what was a fraudulent enterprise.  “It does seem to ignore the extent to which a trustee is
not just a representative of the old enterprise, but also a
representative of all the creditors,” said  Stephen Lubben , a
bankruptcy law professor at  Seton Hall University School of Law 
in Newark,  New Jersey .  Madoff, 75, is serving a 150-year sentence in a federal
prison in North Carolina. His scheme collapsed in 2008 when he
could no longer lure new money to fund withdrawals.  The bankruptcy case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  The appeal is In re Bernard L. Madoff, 11-05175, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  