-- Magna Squeezing More Profit From Mercedes Boom
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-06-20T20:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/magna-squeezing-more-profit-from-mercedes-boom.html
Magna International Inc. (MG) , North
America’s top autoparts stock in the past six months, says it
can squeeze more profit from Europe as it moves factories east
to feed booming U.S. demand for German cars.  Magna foresees margins of 4 percent to 5 percent at its
European operations in the next three to four years, from 1
percent last year, as it spends $100 million to shift
manufacturing operations east, Chief Financial Officer Vince Galifi said.  “As our footprint continues to shift to the eastern part
of Europe we’re anticipating continued improvement in operating
margins,” Galifi said by phone on June 14 from Aurora, Ontario
where the company is based.  Magna has been benefiting from partnerships with German
automakers such as  Daimler AG (DAI) , maker of Mercedes-Benz,
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)  The carmakers are
making inroads in the U.S. as auto sales post their best start
to the year since 2007. U.S. sales may rise to 15.1 million this
year from 14.5 million last year, according to the average
estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg in January. Sales
reached 16.1 million in 2007, according to data from Bloomberg
Industries.  The auto rebound propelled Magna stock to a record
yesterday, bringing gains in the past six months to 45 percent,
the most among 15 North American autoparts stocks tracked by
Bloomberg. The shares fell 0.5 percent to C$71.20 at 4:42 p.m.
today, giving Magna a market value of C$16.6 billion ($16
billion).  Dividend Growth  The company’s price to earnings ratio of 12 is below the 14
North American Industry average. Twelve analysts recommend
buying the stock, six say hold and three advise selling, with
the average 12-month price target at C$73.42, according to
analyst ratings compiled by Bloomberg. Magna is projected to
boost its quarterly dividend to 35 Canadian cents in March,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Our shareholders should expect the dividend -- with the
cash generation we have -- that it’s going to continue to
grow,” Galifi said.  Magna is looking at  Hungary ,  Poland ,  Russia ,  Serbia  and
 Turkey  as possible sites for eight new manufacturing facilities
in Eastern Europe while it adds only one in Western Europe and
considers reducing operations in Germany and  Belgium , with an
eye to reducing labor costs, he said.  Shake Tree  The company currently has about one third of its European
manufacturing operations in the eastern half of the continent,
and it could incur more restructuring costs next year and the
year after as it seeks to increase that percentage, he said.  “I think the fact they really took on this restructuring
in their European operations will continue to bear fruit,” said
Jeff Nelson, a St. Louis, Missouri-based analyst with Edward
Jones & Co. who recommends buying the stock. “We were happy to
see them really shake the tree in Europe and try to right-size
their operations.”  The move comes as record joblessness caused by recession
push European car sales to a 20-year low.  Registrations dropped 5.9 percent to 1.08 million vehicles
in May from 1.15 million a year earlier, the Brussels-based
 European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association , or ACEA, said
June 18. The figure was the lowest for the month since 1993.  “European production volumes have come down in the last
few years, but when you look at our overall sales in Europe, our
sales are actually up,” Galifi said. “A big part of it relates
to our customer mix in Europe.”  U.S. Models  He credits domestic German auto sales along with German
exports to the U.S. and  China  for the resiliency. Mercedes-Benz
U.S. sales rose 10.2 percent in the year through May from the
same period last year, according to researcher Autodata Corp.
BMW sales have gained 8.2 percent in that same period and
Volkswagen’s Audi sales have jumped 15 percent and have posted
record sales for 29 straight months. Europe accounts for about
41 percent of Magna’s revenue.  A Magna factory in Graz,  Austria  assembles Daimler’s
Mercedes-Benz G-Class sports utility vehicle which saw a 35
percent rise in sales last year, Sebastian Wahle, a spokesman
for Daimler said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Magna will benefit from similarly favorable exposure to
popular models from U.S. automakers, RBC Capital Markets
analysts led by Joseph Spak said in a note dated June 11. RBC
says Magna is an important supplier for models like the Chevy
Silverado, GMC Sierra and Chevy Cruze, all of which will benefit
from low inventory and strong demand.  “You don’t want to be on the car that’s 99 out of 100, you
want to be on those kind of top platforms, those top tiers of
what’s in demand today,” said Edward Jones’ Nelson. “They’ve
done a good job of that.”  Construction Boost  Trucks are a particular area of opportunity for Magna as
the contributions the company makes to General Motors’ K2XX
truck platform, the basis for the  Chevy Silverado , GMC Sierra,
Chevy Tahoe, GMC Yukon and Chevrolet Suburban, have increased to
$1,750 per vehicle from $1,500, Galifi said.  “As the residential construction industry continues to
pick up in North America our view is that the requirement for
utility type vehicles should increase,” Galifi said. “So our
view is that is going to benefit us.”  Magna raised its 2013 sales expectations to a range of
$32.6 billion to $34 billion when it reported first quarter
results in May, compared with an earlier forecast of $32 billion
to $33.4 billion in March. Magna now expects its operating
margin will be in the mid-to-high 5 percent range, compared with
earlier estimates of mid-5 percent.  First-quarter  net income  was $1.57 a share compared with
$1.46 a year earlier. Sales rose 9.1 percent to a record $8.36
billion from the year-ago quarter.  Slight Premium  Magna has below average revenue “but trades at a slight
premium to other cyclical suppliers, which keeps us on the
sidelines,”  Patrick Archambault , an analyst with Goldman Sachs
& Co. with a sell rating on the company, wrote in a May 20 note.  Frank Stronach, who founded the company as a one-man tool-and-die shop in 1957, stepped down from the board of directors
last November. He remains honorary chairman. Don Walker became
sole chief executive officer the same year after sharing the
role with Stronach for the previous five.  “What I can credit is the management having a laser focus
on profitability, on return on capital,” Mike Simpson, who
helps mange C$6.5 billion in assets, including Magna shares, as
a portfolio manager at Sentry Investments, said in a phone
interview June 12. “Don Walker and his team are focused on
making Magna the best auto parts manufacturer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  