-- Flood Death Toll in India May Top 1,000 People, Official Says
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n ,   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   S a n t o s h   K u m a r
-- 2013-06-20T09:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/air-rescue-of-indian-flood-survivors-resumes-after-bad-weather.html
Torrential rain and flash floods in
northern  India  may have killed more than 1,000 people, a
government official said, as the armed forces stepped up
searches for those stranded in mountainous areas.  Shashidhar Reddy, vice chairman of India’s  National
Disaster Management Authority , told reporters in New Delhi that
rescue teams were reaching more remote regions, and that he
expected the death toll to soar from the current figure of about
150 people. “The devastation is massive” Reddy said.  About 50 Indian Air Force helicopters are looking for
survivors cut off in the state of  Uttarakhand , Bhaskaranand, the
region’s secretary for disaster management, said in a phone
interview. Religious shrines in the province, which abuts
India’s border with  China  to the west of  Nepal , attract Hindu
and Sikh pilgrims each summer, tens of thousands of whom have
been caught up in the floods.  While monsoon rains cause destruction across India every
year, they have swept over the country with record speed in
2013. Where they have been channeled by the valleys of India’s
Himalayan foothills, the downpours have been especially violent,
destroying homes, vehicles and mobile-phone towers. Television
channels have broadcast footage of apartment blocks collapsing
into swollen rivers, and village streets full of debris and
rock.  The most critically injured survivors will be rescued by
the end of the day, Air Commodore Rajesh Isser said in a
televised press conference from Dehradun, Uttarakhand’s capital,
today. He said progress is slow because some helicopters can
only accommodate three or four people.  Relief Funds  More than 100 people were killed in Uttarakhand, Yashpal
Arya, its minister for disaster management and rehabilitation
said by phone yesterday. Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
said the number of casualties is expected to rise as he
announced a 10 billion-rupee ($167 million) relief package. More
have died in the neighboring state of  Himachal Pradesh .  So far, more than 15,000 people stranded along the route to
a popular Sikh pilgrimage spot, Hemkund Sahib, have been
evacuated to relief camps by air and road routes, the  Press
Trust of India  reported, citing local police. Around Kedarnath,
a town considered holy by Hindus, up to 90 rest houses for
pilgrims may have been washed away, the  news agency  said. As
many as 62,000 pilgrims may still be stuck across the region,
the  BBC  reported.  India’s monsoon, which accounts for about 70 percent of the
country’s rainfall, is vital for its agriculture-driven economy.
Rains since the monsoon began  June 1  have been 58 percent above
average, helping to ease water shortages in some regions and
promising to boost crop production in the world’s second-most
populous country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Santosh Kumar in New Delhi at 
 sthakur10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  