-- Airbus Explores A380 Superjumbo Refresher to Help Rekindle Sales
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-06-20T06:47:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/airbus-explores-a380-superjumbo-refresher-to-help-rekindle-sales.html
Airbus SAS said it’s starting to
explore ways to refresh its flagship A380 to improve performance
toward the end of the decade and keep the double-decker plane
competitive as newer long-range jets draw customers.  “We really need to think about how we keep the A380
sharp,”  Tom Williams , Airbus executive vice president for
programs, said in an interview at the  Paris Air Show . Newer
planes from  Boeing Co. (BA)  and others Airbus itself is building mean
the economics of the A380 need further improvement, he said.  Airbus has seen lackluster demand for the A380, with 262
orders for its largest plane since it was given authority to
sell. The competitive landscape is getting more difficult as
Boeing pushes a new family of wide-bodies, including the 777X
update of its best selling twin-engine wide-body due around the
end of the decade, while Airbus sales of its A350-1000 outpace
superjumbo bookings.  Airbus will also look to engine makers to deliver
improvements, Williams said. The A380 is powered either by
 Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  turbines or ones built by a joint
venture between  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  United Technologies
Corp. (UTX) ’s  Pratt & Whitney .  With the plane becoming more common, carriers are starting
to increase the seat count on the aircraft that typically has
featured fewer than the 525-average that Airbus cites as the
norm, Williams said. Airbus has begun talking to airlines about
an 11-abreast seat configuration that would add about 40
passengers and is awaiting the first taker, he said.  Airbus is largely focusing on the A380-800, the current
version, rather than a stretch, Williams said.  Tim Clark ,
president of Emirates, the world’s largest operator of the
superjumbo, has urged the Toulouse, France-based planemaker to
build a larger model. Williams said it is not clear there would
be much demand beyond the one prospective buyer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in Paris at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  