-- Arbitration Backed as Court Rules for American Express
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-06-20T18:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/american-express-wins-as-u-s-supreme-court-backs-arbitration.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  reinforced
companies’ power to funnel legal disputes into arbitration,
ruling in favor of  American Express Co. (AXP)  in an antitrust clash
with retailers over the credit cards they must accept.  The justices, voting 5-3, said merchants seeking to sue
American Express are bound by an agreement they signed to pursue
disputes individually before an arbitrator. A federal appeals
court had refused to enforce the arbitration accord, saying its
bar on class actions would make it infeasible for the merchants
to press their claims.  Writing for the majority, Justice  Antonin Scalia  said
courts must respect arbitration agreements -- and bans on class
actions -- even when the cost of pressing an individual case
would exceed the potential damages.  The lower court’s reasoning “would undoubtedly destroy the
prospect of speedy resolution that arbitration in general and
bilateral arbitration in particular was meant to secure,”
Scalia wrote.  Companies are increasingly turning to arbitration accords
to limit lawsuits by customers, employees and fellow businesses.
Advocates of arbitration say it saves litigation expenses and
produces quicker decisions. The high court has repeatedly backed
the use of arbitration agreements in recent years.  Kagan’s Dissent  In dissent, Justice Elena Kagan said the ruling would let
wrongdoers immunize themselves against lawsuits. She said
American Express had used its market clout to foist the contract
on retailers.  “If the arbitration clause is enforceable, Amex has
insulated itself from antitrust liability -- even if it has in
fact violated the law,” she wrote. “The monopolist gets to use
its monopoly to insist on a contract effectively depriving its
victims of all legal recourse.  ‘‘And here is the nutshell version of today’s opinion,
admirably flaunted rather than camouflaged: Too darn bad,’’ she
wrote.  Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg and  Stephen Breyer  joined
Kagan in dissent. Justice  Sonia Sotomayor , who was involved with
the case as an appellate judge, didn’t take part in the Supreme
Court’s decision.  Chief Justice  John Roberts  and Justices Anthony Kennedy,
 Clarence Thomas  and  Samuel Alito  joined Scalia in the majority.  Ruling Extended  The decision extends a 2011 Supreme Court ruling that said
companies can use arbitration accords to block employees and
consumers from pressing claims as a group. Both cases turned on
the 1925 Federal Arbitration Act, which says courts must enforce
arbitration accords the same as any other contract.  Today’s ruling ‘‘preserves the availability of arbitration
as a fair, efficient and cost-effective way to resolve
disputes,” American Express said in an e-mailed statement.  American Express is fighting a series of lawsuits filed
starting in 2003 by restaurants and other merchants in
 California  and  New York . The lead plaintiff at the Supreme Court
was Italian Colors Restaurant of Oakland, California.  The merchants say they should be able to accept American
Express charge cards, which require payment of the entire
balance each month, without having to accept the company’s newer
credit cards, which don’t require full payment. The merchants
say the newer cards aren’t used by the high-end customers
preferred by stores and consequently aren’t worth the high fees
imposed on stores by American Express.  Damage Estimate  New York-based American Express’s standard agreement with
its merchants calls for all disputes to be resolved through
individual arbitration.  The merchants told the Supreme Court that the most any of
them could hope to recover in damages is $38,549, far less than
what it would cost to marshal the evidence to prove their case.  The retailers said Supreme Court decisions from 1985 and
2000 establish that arbitration is an acceptable substitute for
litigation of claims under federal law only when potential
plaintiffs would be able to “vindicate” their rights. The
Obama administration backed the merchants in the case.  “The decision is catastrophic for the antitrust laws, as
well as for civil rights, consumer rights and many other
statutory rights,” said Paul Bland, an attorney with Public
Justice, a Washington-based advocacy group.  Consumer advocates said they would turn their attention to
Congress and federal regulators.  “This is an issue on which the Supreme Court will not have
the last word,” said  Deepak Gupta , a lawyer who represents the
merchants in the American Express case. “It’s quite likely that
there will be legislative or regulatory responses to this.”  Under the 2010 Dodd-Frank law, the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau has authority to set new rules governing
consumer arbitration agreements.  The case is American Express v. Italian Colors Restaurant,
12-133.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  