-- MAN SE Sued Over Shareholder Meeting as VW Grabs Control
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2013-06-20T10:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/man-se-sued-over-shareholder-meeting-as-vw-grabs-control.html
MAN SE (MAN)  was sued by  Effecten-Spiegel (EFS) 
AG over answers given at a shareholder’s meeting in the first
step in a potential legal battle with minority shareholders over
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s plan to take full control of the truckmaker.  Effecten-Spiegel, a Dusseldorf-based investor and publisher
of a finance magazine, filed a complaint in a Munich court
charging MAN with providing insufficient information at the June
6 meeting, according to a statement by law firm Dreier Riedel
Rechtsanwaelte. MAN declined to comment on the suit because its
lawyers had not yet received the filing.  The suit, which is asking for more detailed information
than given at the meeting, won’t hinder the implementation of
Volkswagen’s domination agreement that was approved at the
meeting, the  law firm  said.  “We still deem the offered compensation as inappropriately
low,” Peter Dreier, the Dusseldorf-based lawyer that filed the
complaint on behalf of Effecten-Spiegel, said in the statement.
“We will review this aspect for our clients after the
resolution of the shareholders meeting is registered.”  Volkswagen preferred shares  dropped  as much as 6.50 euros,
or 4.1 percent, to 153.20 euros and was 4 percent lower as of
12:05 p.m. in Frankfurt trading. MAN was 0.1 percent higher at
84.09 euros.  VW gained shareholder approval for a profit transfer and
domination agreement with MAN, which eliminates the need for
arm’s length negotiations between the companies and gives the
carmaker access to MAN’s cash. The vote was never in doubt
because VW’s voting stake of just over 75 percent gave it
sufficient muscle to push through the plan.  Takeover Offer  VW, which is required under German law as part of the
agreement to offer to buy out minority owners, is proposing
purchasing the truckmaker’s remaining stock for 80.89 euros
($106.92) a share. Investors who don’t accept the cash deal will
receive an annual dividend of 3.07 euros per share.  Ferdinand Piech , supervisory board chairman at both
Volkswagen and MAN, said at the meeting that he expects a drawn-out legal battle with investors seeking a higher price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  