-- Land Securities Commits to $400 Million London Project
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-06-20T08:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/land-securities-commits-to-400-million-london-project.html
Land Securities Group Plc (LAND) , the
U.K.’s largest real estate investment trust, said it will spend
260 million pounds ($400 million) to develop two buildings with
offices, restaurants and shops near London’s St. Paul’s
Cathedral.  Construction of the New Ludgate development will begin in
August and is expected to be completed in April 2015, the
London-based company said in a statement today.  “Our decision to commence the speculative development of 1
and 2 New Ludgate reflects our confidence both in the City
office market, where we believe supply of new space will be
constrained in 2015, and in the quality of the attractive and
highly efficient office space we are creating” Colette O’Shea,
Land Securities’ head of  London  development, said in the
statement.  Land Securities is seeking to take advantage of increased
competition for offices in London, where the value of income-producing properties rose 7.4 percent in the first quarter,
according to Investment Property Databank Ltd. Speculative
development in the City of London financial district has waned
since the global financial crisis hit in 2008 as development
funding declined and financial-services companies cut staff.  Land Securities began speculatively building a 37-story
tower nicknamed the “Walkie-Talkie” in January 2011 and has
reached agreements with tenants for about 56 percent of the
space. Speculative development is building without first having
agreements with tenants in place.  New Ludgate, close to London’s Midtown and outside the
main financial district, will have 379,000 square feet (35,000 
square meters) of space and consist of two buildings connected by a 
public square. Shops and restaurants will take up 33,000 square feet 
of space in the lower levels. Skanska AB will oversee the 
construction, Land Securities said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  