-- Anti-Prostitution Rule Violates Speech Rights, Court Says
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-06-20T15:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/anti-prostitution-rule-violates-speech-rights-high-court-rules.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  bolstered the
speech rights of federal grant recipients, ruling that groups
receiving money for overseas anti-HIV and AIDS programs can’t be
required to take a stance against prostitution.  The justices, voting 6-2, today rejected Obama
administration contentions that the restriction was a legitimate
condition on the use of federal funds.  “The policy requirement goes beyond preventing recipients
from using private funds in a way that would undermine the
federal program,” Chief Justice  John Roberts  wrote for the
majority. “It requires them to pledge allegiance to the
government’s policy of eradicating prostitution.”  The dispute centered on a provision in a 2003 law that
increased U.S. efforts against infectious diseases around the
world. Congress has authorized spending of more than $60 billion
under the program.  Groups including Pathfinder International and InterAction
challenged the provision, arguing that their work in disease-ravaged countries in Africa and Asia would be compromised if
they adopted anti-prostitution policies. The organizations say
they work with prostitutes to educate them about HIV and AIDS
and to encourage prevention.  The Obama administration contended the provision, which
also requires recipients to oppose sex trafficking, is designed
to reduce behavior that fosters the spread of HIV and AIDS.  Scalia Dissent  Justices Antonin Scalia and  Clarence Thomas  dissented. The
requirement “is nothing more than a means of selecting suitable
agents to implement the government’s chosen strategy to
eradicate HIV/AIDS,” Scalia wrote.  The Supreme Court has said Congress generally can place
conditions on the receipt of federal funds. The majority today
ruled that Congress went too far by trying to control private
speech beyond the scope of the government program. The ruling
upholds a federal appeals court decision.  The disputed provision exempted some groups, including the
 World Health Organization  and any United Nations agency.  The case is U.S. Agency for International Development v.
Alliance for Open Society, 12-10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 