-- Factories in Philadelphia Fed Region Rise at Faster Pace
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-06-20T14:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/manufacturing-in-philadelphia-fed-region-grows-at-faster-pace.html
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region unexpectedly grew in June at the fastest pace in two
years as factories showed resilience in the face of slowing
overseas markets.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general
economic  index  climbed to 12.5, exceeding all forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey and the highest since April 2011, from minus
5.2 in May. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in the
area, which covers eastern  Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and
 Delaware .  The data corroborate figures earlier this week showing
improved sentiment at factories in the  New York  Fed region even
as global growth cools. In the U.S., a pickup in auto and home
sales, combined with the diminishing effects of this year’s
across-the-board federal spending cuts, may prompt businesses to
boost spending and lift production.  “Once we get a little more clarity on the global growth
picture, it might be easier for manufacturers to start ramping
up a little bit,” Gennadiy Goldberg, U.S. strategist at TD
Securities Inc. in New York, said before the report. “Over the
next couple months you should start seeing a little more
stabilization. It should start to improve later in the year.”  Economists forecast the gauge would improve to minus 2,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
 Estimates (OUTFGAF)  ranged from minus 8 to 5.  Other Data  Other reports today showed sales of existing houses climbed
more than forecast in May, claims for jobless benefits rose more
than projected last week and  consumer confidence  improved.  Philadelphia-area manufacturers grew more optimistic about
the future, today’s report showed. The  outlook index  for six
months from now climbed to 33.7, the highest since September,
from 32.3 in May.  The new orders measure jumped to 16.6, a two-year high,
from minus 7.9 in May. A gauge of employment showed factories
were cutting staff at a slower pace, improving to minus 5.4 from
minus 8.7 in May.  The gauge of prices paid climbed to 22.5 after 6.9 in May.
An index of prices received rose to 14.6 from minus 3.3.  Economists monitor Philadelphia and Empire State factory
reports for clues about the Institute for Supply Management
national figures on manufacturing, which makes about 12 percent
of the economy. This month, the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York’s general economic  index  climbed to 7.8, the highest
reading since March, from minus 1.4 in May.  Manufacturing Nationally  The ISM, which will release its next report July 1,
reported that manufacturing contracted in May at the fastest
pace in four years, with the  index  falling to 49, the lowest
reading since June 2009.  Home construction and an improving economy are giving a
lift to auto manufacturers, which are seeing an increase in U.S.
sales of trucks and vans.  General Motors Co. (GM)  will begin marketing a redesigned line
of pickups this year.  Ford Motor Corp. (F) , Chrysler Group LLC and
 Daimler AG (DAI)  are introducing fuel-efficient work vans to the U.S.
market in response to a rebound in residential construction.  “If people buy houses, somebody’s got to build them and
the people who build them need materials, so someone’s got to
take the material to the construction site,” said Claus Tritt,
who heads Daimler’s U.S. commercial-van business. “It’s almost
like a circle of life.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  