-- Manulife on Pace for Best Week Since May
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-06-20T20:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/manulife-on-pace-for-best-week-since-september.html
Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , the
largest insurer in  Canada , is on pace for its biggest weekly
gain since May as rising interest rates boost investment income
used to pay out annuities.  Manulife  rose  1.5 percent to C$16.80 at the close of
trading in Toronto today, its highest since July 8, 2011. That
brought the advance for Toronto-based Manulife to 7 percent this
week, the most since a 7.1 percent rise the week ended May 3.
 Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF) , Canada’s third-biggest insurer, earlier
jumped to C$31.23, its  highest  in more than two years before
closing at C$30.87.  “Simply put, the accounting and regulatory model for
lifecos mean that the higher the rates, the more likely that
investors in lifecos will get dividend increases,” Tom MacKinnon, analyst at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, said in a
note to clients yesterday.  Manulife’s stock could reach C$22 by the second half of
2014 with rising rates, MacKinnon said, upgrading the stock to
the equivalent of a buy.  Barclays Plc and Desjardins Securities Inc. also issued
notes this week forecasting growth in Canadian benefits
providers. U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said
yesterday the central bank may begin to phase out its $85
billion monthly bond buying program later this year as the U.S.
economy stabilizes. That pushed the U.S. 10-year Treasury note
to the highest since August 2011.  The “positive story for the banks has ebbed,” while “the
lifecos have turned a corner and core earnings growth will
return,” John Aiken, Toronto-based analyst at Barclays, said in
a June 18 note to clients.  The six-company Standard & Poor’s/TSX Life and Health
Insurance Index gained 4.2 percent in the week so far in its
fourth straight day of gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  