-- Apple Denies Conspiring With Publishers in E-Books Trial
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-06-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/apple-denies-conspiring-with-publishers-in-e-books-trial.html
Apple Inc. made a final pitch to
defend itself against U.S. charges it led publishers in a scheme
to fix the prices for electronic books, with the company’s
lawyer telling a judge that it did nothing wrong.  “Apple did not conspire with a single publisher to fix
prices in the e-books industry,”  Orin Snyder , Apple’s lawyer,
told U.S. District Judge Denise Cote yesterday in his closing
argument at the end of a civil antitrust trial in  Manhattan .
“Apple acted lawfully and did not violate the antitrust laws.”  The government claims Apple and five of the biggest book
publishers conspired to move the e-book market to a model that
raised prices and harmed consumers. The trial focused on
December 2009 and January 2010, when Apple was rushing to sign
contracts with the publishers and build an iBookstore in time
for the introduction of the iPad.  Snyder, in his 2 1/2-hour argument, told Cote that Apple’s
entry into the e-book market, which had been dominated by
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , lowered prices overall and helped consumers by
bringing innovation and competition. He argued that the
government “overreached” in its suit against Apple, claiming
that a ruling for the U.S. Justice Department would be
“unprecedented and dangerous” for companies.  ‘Tentative View’  Cote, who will decide the case without a jury, interrupted
Snyder repeatedly with questions. In a court conference before
the trial, Cote told lawyers for both sides her “tentative
view” was that the government has evidence Apple “knowingly
participated in and facilitated a conspiracy to raise prices of
e-books.”  During the trial, which began June 3, Cote heard testimony
from top publishing executives and from Eddy Cue, the senior
Apple executive on the negotiations. The government also
introduced e-mails from Steve Jobs, the company’s deceased co-founder.  Cue, who took the stand for two days, testified that he
felt pressure to put together the iBookstore in time for Jobs’s
introduction of the iPad, because of his failing health. Jobs
died in October 2011.  Snyder said that Apple negotiated with each of the
publishers independently for its own advantage, over the course
of six weeks. Jobs and Cue were strangers to the publishing
world and weren’t ringleaders of a publishers’ price-fixing
conspiracy, he argued.  Doesn’t Know  In response to a question from Cote, Snyder said Apple
isn’t in a position to know whether the publishers conspired
with one another without Apple’s participation.  Snyder challenged an exhibit introduced by the government
to show a “spider web” of phone calls from Cue to the chief
executive officers of the publishing houses. Snyder removed from
exhibit calls of less than a minute and those that took place
after the government claims the conspiracy was already in place.
Only a handful of calls remained.  Apple is the last defendant remaining in the case after the
five publishers sued by the government avoided trial by
settling.  The settling publishers are Verlagsgruppe Georg von
Holtzbrinck GmbH’s Macmillan unit,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Simon & Schuster,
 Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s Hachette Book Group,  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin unit
and News Corp.’s HarperCollins. The No. 1 publisher, Random
House Inc., isn’t involved in the U.S. suit.  Five Publishers  The U.S. sued Apple and the five publishers in April 2012.
The government claims Apple pushed publishers to sign agreements
letting it sell digital copies of their books under what’s known
as the agency model. Under that model, publishers, and not
retailers, set prices for each book, with Apple getting 30
percent.  Mark Ryan, a lawyer for the Justice Department, followed
Snyder yesterday, arguing that Apple headed up “an old-fashioned, straightforward price-fixing agreement.”  Ryan said Apple took advantage of the publishers’ dislike
of Amazon’s practice of selling new e-books for $9.99, less than
their cost, offering a scheme that would fix their “Amazon
problem” by forcing the Seattle-based online retailer to switch
to agency pricing.  “The price that was set in a competitive marketplace was
not a price they liked,” Ryan said.  The scheme had two objects, Ryan said: to raise e-book
prices from $9.99 to $12.99 and $14.99 and make it harder for
retailers to compete on price. Consumers lost in the process, he
argued.  Disregard Cue  Ryan told Cote she should disregard the testimony of Cue
and other Apple witnesses as not credible. He said Apple used
pricing tiers and a provision allowing the company to match any
lower book prices charged by other retailers to ensure that the
publishers would force Amazon to switch to agency pricing.  “Why does it care, once it has price protection, whether
or not the publishers follow through on what they said they
wanted, which is to take control of pricing?” Cote asked Ryan.  “Pricing’s clearly an advantage for Amazon,” he answered.
Forcing a switch to agency would “level the playing field,”
allowing Apple to compete more effectively in the e-book market,
he said.  The government is seeking an order barring Apple from
alleged anticompetitive actions, including price fixing, in the
market for digital books. The U.S. isn’t asking for money
damages.  Private Plaintiffs  A group of states is also seeking fines and unspecified
damages. If Apple is found liable in the trial, damages will be
determined in a separate proceeding. A win for the government
may fuel class actions by private plaintiffs seeking triple
damages permitted under antitrust law.  At the time of the alleged conspiracy, Amazon, with its
Kindle reader, sold nine out of 10 e-books bought by consumers,
according to Apple.  Apple has iBookstores available in 155 countries, offering
1.75 million books for sale, Peter Oppenheimer, Apple’s chief
financial officer, said during Apple’s earnings call with
analysts in April.  Cote told the parties before the trial that she had drafted
an opinion. She didn’t say yesterday when she will rule on the
case.  The case is U.S. v.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 