-- Asia Stock Futures Indicate Weekly Fall on Fed, China Concern
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-06-20T23:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/asia-stock-futures-indicate-weekly-fall-on-fed-china-concern.html
Stock futures in  Japan , Hong Kong
and Australia declined, indicating the regional equities
benchmark will extend this week’s slide, amid concern the
 Federal Reserve  will reduce stimulus and as China’s cash crunch
worsened.  American Depositary Receipts  of Canon Inc., a Japanese
camera maker that gets 80 percent of sales abroad, slid 2
percent. ADRs of Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., the world’s
largest cargo and freight carrier, sank 3 percent. Those of BHP
Billiton Ltd., the No. 1 mining company, declined 1.6 percent.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
September closed at 12,805 in  Chicago , down from 13,030 at the
close in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 12,830
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index retreated 1.7 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
fell 1.3 percent. Futures on  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index slid 1
percent.  “The exit from easy monetary policy has begun,” Salman Ahmed, a London-based global strategist at Lombard Odier
Investment Managers, which oversees $46 billion, said in an e-mail. “The eventual exit path is uncertain as it will depend on
how the  U.S. economy  evolves from here.”  Futures contracts on the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index
of mainland Chinese companies trading in Hong Kong retreated 0.7
percent. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. dropped 3.6 percent in New York
yesterday. The Hang Seng Index yesterday erased all gains since
Sept. 13, when the Fed pledged to keep buying assets until it
saw “ongoing, sustained improvement” in the U.S. labor market.  Fed Stimulus  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this week the central
bank may start reducing stimulus measures this year if the
economy achieves the sustainable growth the Fed has sought since
the recession ended in 2009.  Markets across the Asia-Pacific region tumbled yesterday,
with declines deepening after China’s interbank lending rates
soared as the monetary authority refrained from using open-market operations to address a cash crunch in the world’s
second-largest economy and a preliminary survey showed a slump
in manufacturing.  The People’s Bank of China added 50 billion  yuan  ($8.2
billion) to the financial system yesterday after a cash squeeze
drove money-market rates to record highs, said Hao Hong, chief
China strategist at Bank of Communications Co.  The sum was supplied to a single lender through short-term
liquidity operations and more banks were in talks to obtain
financing, Hong said in a telephone interview, adding that this
is “proper and appropriate” use of the mechanism. A PBOC press
official said he was unaware of the matter, requesting anonymity
in keeping with bank policies.  U.S. Futures  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, lost 1.4 percent this year through yesterday.
That left the gauge trading at 12.3 times average estimated
earnings compared with 14.4 for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
and 12.6 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed. The  S&P 500  fell 2.5 percent yesterday, posting its
biggest loss since November 2011, as global equities tumbled
after the Federal Reserve said it may phase out stimulus and
China’s cash crunch worsened.  About 9.4 billion shares changed hands yesterday in the
U.S., the highest volume of the year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  