-- Tata Wins Over IBM, Dell With Solar Cheaper Than Grid
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-06-20T06:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/tata-wins-over-ibm-dell-with-solar-cheaper-than-grid.html
Tata Group ’s solar unit is expanding
its business building plants for customers, forecasting that
offices and factories will be paying more for grid power than
solar by 2016 in most Indian states.  Solar installations for commercial and industrial energy
consumers, such as cement factories, information technology
parks and car manufacturers, seeking to generate their own power
represent a market of about 80 billion rupees ($1.3 billion),
said Ajay Goel, chief executive of Tata Power Solar Systems
Ltd., a unit of India’s biggest industrial group that owns
Jaguar Land Rover.  The company, formerly known as Tata BP Solar Ltd., is
seeking to diversify from making panels after an oversupply from
Chinese competitors crushed prices globally and idled Indian
factories. Customers for whom it has already completed solar
plants for self-generation include  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the
country’s biggest carmaker, and the local units of  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   “We’re seeing a huge uptake as we get closer and closer to
grid parity,” Goel said in a phone interview. “Corporate
customers are coming to us to install solar on their rooftops or
land on the side of their factories because it can provide
energy cheaper than from the grid.”  The investment can pay for itself in a year if the customer
is able to claim tax depreciation benefits or about four years
if they can’t, Goel said. The economics improve further when
businesses calculate the cost of diesel burned during daily
blackouts. Diesel generators cost about 17 rupees per kilowatt-hour to run, more than double the cost of solar, according to
HSBC Holdings Plc.  Cheap Solar  Commercial consumers such as hotels and shopping malls,
which pay the highest rates for electricity from the grid, can
already generate solar power cheaper in 10 percent of  India ’s 35
states and territories, Goel said. By 2016, that’ll be true in
60 percent of India’s states and territories, and if government
subsidies are considered, the number will increase to 80
percent.  In India, the rate paid for electricity delivered by the
national transmission network differs depending on the type of
consumer and the location. On average, the tariff has risen 15
percent since 2010 to 4.55 rupees a kilowatt-hour, according to
 data  from the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission on
short-term power sales. In the same period, the average cost of
solar energy fell 39 percent to 6.89 rupees per kilowatt-hour,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  