-- Mathew Gladstein, Options Guru With Merton, Scholes, Dies
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-06-21T01:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/mathew-gladstein-options-guru-with-merton-scholes-dies-at-90.html
Mathew L. Gladstein, a Wall Street
executive who tapped the expertise of Robert Merton and Myron
Scholes -- future Nobel Prize-winners -- in the 1970s to bring
options trading to the masses, has died. He was 90.  He died in his sleep on June 18 at his home in Scarsdale,
New York, his daughter, Gina Gladstein Mullen, said yesterday in
an interview. Known as Mike, he had lived in Scarsdale since
1951.  Gladstein joined Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette, the New York
brokerage known for devising new ways of delivering financial
services, in 1970 to pursue a budding interest in trading
options -- contracts that give the buyer the right to buy a
security or commodity at a later date for a specified price. The
Chicago Board of Trade was then working on the first centralized
marketplace for trading options; it would open in 1973 as the
Chicago Board Options Exchange.  Hoping to set up an options desk at DLJ, Gladstein enlisted
Merton and Scholes, economists at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology who were developing mathematical models to determine
prices for options.  The trio established option pricing and hedging formulas
that DLJ used in markets worldwide, including the CBOE. They
also established Money Market/Option Investments Inc., the first
public mutual fund with a strategy focused on options, according
to  Merton .  ‘Meaningful Role’  “Gladstein clearly played a meaningful role in the
development of the option market and its transition from a
fragmented, slow-paced, over-the-counter market to a public-traded market which, 40 years later, has grown enormously in
both volume and breadth,” Merton said yesterday in an e-mail.  Scholes, in an e-mail, called Gladstein “a pioneer in the
pre-CBOE era” who “was successful in combining models with
intuition in trading options.”  On the first day of CBOE options trading in 1973, Gladstein
monitored the prices of calls and panicked when he realized they
were much higher than Scholes and Merton had predicted. As
Gladstein later recounted to Donald A. MacKenzie for the  2007
book , “Do Economists Make Markets?” he called Scholes, who,
after huddling with Merton, gave assurance that the prevailing
prices would move toward what their model predicted.  Gladstein said he “ran down the hall” and demanded of his
colleagues, “Give me more money, and we’re going to have a
killing ground here,” according to the book.  Four years later, Gladstein teamed again with Merton and
Scholes to popularize the use of options.  Simulated Investments  In a series of simulations, the three men found that
options, when combined appropriately with other investments,
enable investors “to create patterns of returns” not
reproducible by trading in stocks and bonds alone, they wrote in
a 1978  paper  published in the Journal of Business.  “As we see it,” they wrote, “the principal function of
options is to provide a significant expansion of the patterns of
portfolio returns available to investors. Such expansions make
investors better off and add to the liquidity and efficiency of
the capital markets.”  That same year, Gladstein was elected president of the New
York Institutional Option Society, a trade group newly
established to promote the use and understanding of puts, calls
and other security options.  Merton’s research expanded on the Black-Scholes method -- a
term he coined -- for pricing options. For this pioneering work,
he and Scholes shared the 1997 Nobel Prize in economics; Fischer Black, Scholes’s research partner, had died in 1995 and was
cited by the Nobel committee as a contributor.  Math Rush  The Black-Scholes model “worked so well that Gladstein and
his pals made tons of money using it,” Ajit Balakrishnan wrote
in his 2012  book , “The Wave Rider: A Chronicle of the
Information Age,” and it “started the rush of mathematicians
to the stock market.”  Mathew Louis Gladstein was born on March 24, 1923, in New
York City, the first of two sons of Samuel and Jeanette
Gladstein. After graduating at 16 from Townsend Harris High
School, he attended City College of New York for two years
before enlisting in the U.S. Army Air Corps, forerunner of
today’s Air Force.  During World War II, he served as a bombardier-navigator
with the 15th Air Force in  Italy , rising to first lieutenant.  He resumed his studies after the war at Columbia University
in New York City. Following a stint as an insurance broker, he
became president of Glenhaven Ltd., a women’s clothing
manufacturer that had been started by his father-in-law.  At DLJ, he reported to Leo Pomerance, who would go on to
become the first chairman of the  CBOE .  Following his retirement, Gladstein remained interested in
the markets and traded for his own account until his death, his
daughter said.  Survivors include his wife of 63 years, the former Edythe
Rosenthal; three children, Gina Gladstein Mullen, John
Gladstein, and Joshua Gladstein; and two granddaughters, Anna
Mullen and Nina Mullen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  