-- Aussie Touches 3-Year Low on China Data, Fed; N.Z. Yields Surge
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-06-20T07:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/aussie-touches-3-year-low-versus-greenback-on-bernanke-comments.html
Australia’s dollar slid to the
lowest in almost three years after a gauge of Chinese
manufacturing contracted and the  Federal Reserve  signaled an
exit from monetary easing.  New Zealand ’s bond yields surged the
most since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The Aussie slid for a fifth day, following the biggest
decline since November 2011 yesterday, after Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  signaled the central bank could reduce monetary
stimulus that tends to weaken the greenback. New Zealand’s
dollar dropped for a fifth day after data showed the nation’s
economic growth slowed more than economists forecast.  “The link between the  China  growth story and the Aussie
dollar remains crucial,” said Michael Judge, a Sydney-based
dealer at OZForex Pty Ltd., an online foreign-exchange company.
“We all know the only way  interest rates  are heading in this
country at the moment is south, and obviously weakening China
growth doesn’t help that prognosis.”  The Australian dollar fell 0.7 percent to 92.29 U.S. cents
as of 4:55 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it tumbled 2
percent. It earlier touched 92.25, the lowest since Sept. 10,
2010. The  New Zealand dollar  weakened 0.8 percent to 78.33 U.S.
cents after sliding 1.1 percent yesterday.  The  yield  on Australia’s benchmark 10-year government bond
rose as much as 23 basis points to 3.65 percent, the highest
since March 15. The extra yield it offers over 10-year U.S. debt
yesterday narrowed to 107 basis points, or 1.07 percentage
point, the least since November 2008.  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia (CBA)  predicts the gap could shrink to the lowest since
2001.  China Slowdown  China’s manufacturing  Purchasing Managers ’ Index dropped to
48.3 in June from 49.2 the prior month, according to HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. The median analyst estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey was for a reading of 49.1, and levels
below 50 signal contraction.  Economists this month raised their forecasts for the
possibility of an Australian recession in the next 12 months to
10 percent, from 5 percent in May, in a Bloomberg survey
released yesterday.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia reitereated it has scope to
cut interest rates further, according to minutes from this
month’s meeting that were released this week. It left the
 benchmark  rate at a record low 2.75 percent at the gathering.  Swaps markets are pricing in 29 basis points of RBA cuts
over the coming year, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG
indexes.  Another index  is signaling 17 basis points of rate
increases in the U.S.  Fed Optimism  The Fed raised its growth forecasts for next year to a
range of 3 percent to 3.5 percent and reduced the outlook for
unemployment to as low as 6.5 percent, after leaving the monthly
pace of bond purchases under quantitative easing unchanged at
$85 billion yesterday.  “If the incoming data are broadly consistent with this
forecast, the committee currently anticipates that it would be
appropriate to moderate the pace of purchases later this year,”
Bernanke said in a press conference in  Washington .  “The Fed’s explicitness overnight we think will see the
markets refocus on policy dichotomies amongst global central
banks,” Emmanuel Ng, a strategist at Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp. in  Singapore , wrote in a report today. Downside risks for
the Australian currency “may have become more entrenched in the
near term, especially with the latest RBA meeting minutes
essentially on the opposite end of the spectrum relative to the
Fed.”  Worst Performer  Australia ’s dollar has fallen almost 12 percent over the
past three months, making it the worst performer among 10
developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. New Zealand’s dollar is the second-biggest
decliner with a a 4.5 percent loss.  “It was a massive move overnight,” Laura Fitzsimmons, a
Sydney-based vice president for futures and options at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., said in a Bloomberg Television interview of the
Aussie’s plunge in  New York . “We could see that move continue,
despite technical indicators looking like it’s well oversold at
this stage.”  The Australian dollar’s relative strength index versus the
greenback slid to 29 today, a level that some traders see as a
sign that an asset’s price has fallen too rapidly and is poised
to reverse course. The New Zealand dollar’s RSI against its U.S.
counterpart was 36.  New Zealand’s dollar sank after data showed the economy
 grew  less that forecast in the first quarter. Gross domestic
product expanded 0.3 percent in the first quarter from the
period before, slowing from a 1.5 percent pace in the previous
three months,  Statistics New Zealand  said in a report today. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  was for
a 0.5 percent expansion.  N.Z. Bonds  “The New Zealand data has been a lot better than
Australian data, and there was a general perception that the GDP
might well support that a little bit,” said Sam Tuck, a senior
foreign-exchange manager at ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd. in
Auckland. “The lack of support from GDP meant the New Zealand
dollar had a bit of catching up to do on the big U.S. dollar
move.”  New Zealand’s 10-year bond yield surged 30 basis points to
4.09 percent. It was the  steepest advance  since October 2008 and
the highest close for the yield since April 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  