-- Australia’s Trade Unions Back Labor Leader Gillard, Howes Says
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-06-20T04:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/australia-s-trade-unions-back-labor-leader-gillard-howes-says.html
The Australian trade union movement
is unanimous in its support of the Labor government and Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard ’s bid for re-election, the nation’s
senior workers’ representative Paul Howes said.  “The labor movement’s best chance is to unite behind the
Gillard government, under the leadership of Prime Minister
Gillard, and fight this election on the issues that actually
matter,” Howes, national secretary of the Australian Workers’
Union, said in a Sky Television interview today. All unions are
“united, as we are, behind the Gillard government.”  The comments by Howes, a power broker in the ruling  Labor
party  and the youngest person to become a national union
secretary when elected in 2007 at the age of 26, will boost
Gillard as media speculation mounts she may be challenged by
predecessor  Kevin Rudd . Opinion polls indicate her government
faces a hefty defeat in elections to be held Sept. 14.  Parliament goes on hiatus later today and reconvenes June
24 for the final sitting week before the election, a danger zone
for the prime minister as her Labor colleagues will all be in
Canberra, enabling a snap challenge.  Employment and Workplace Relations Minister  Bill Shorten 
has been in talks with senior union officials aligned with
Gillard in signs her key support base could be readying to
abandon her, the  Daily Telegraph  said today, citing senior Labor
sources it didn’t identify. Howes denied that in his interview
with Sky and said he hadn’t spoken with any lawmakers about a
potential challenge of Gillard.  Poll Pressure  Replacing Gillard with Rudd would boost Labor’s chances at
the ballot box, polls show. His return would lift Labor by 11
percentage points in the primary vote to 40 percent, compared
with the Liberal-National opposition coalition’s 42 percent,
according to a Nielsen survey published in Fairfax newspapers
June 17.  The AWU, which represents 500,000 Australian workers and
their families, doesn’t direct members of parliament on how to
vote in Labor leadership ballots, Howes said. Even so,
improvements to the country’s retirement pension scheme and
stronger workers’ rights under the Fair Work Act were reasons to
support Gillard, he said.  “Labor will win the election under Julia Gillard” if it
is united, Howes said. “When you look at the record of
achievement of the Gillard government, when you look at the
amazing legislative wins for the rights of working people and
the improvements in their standards of living, this government
is second to none.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  