-- Bank of America’s Foreclosure Frenzy
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2013-06-20T22:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/bank-of-america-and-the-tragedy-of-foreclosure.html
In one corner, we have five former
 Bank of America Corp.  employees who told a federal court they
were instructed to mislead customers on the verge of losing
their homes and stall their applications for loan modifications.  In another corner, we have Bank of America, which says
nothing could be further from the truth.  Who’s right? If anything, the bank’s strident denials make
me more inclined to believe the workers’  claims . “These
allegations are absurd, patently false and contrary to Bank of
America’s long-standing policy only to foreclose as a last
resort when other available options to help keep people in their
home have been exhausted,”  Jumana Bauwens , a Bank of America
spokeswoman,  told   Bloomberg News  in an e-mail this week.  Perhaps some of the allegations may be wrong. But to say
all of them are obviously false? You have to wonder. A lot of
the former employees’ claims make sense.  We have known for years that the U.S. Treasury Department’s
 Home Affordable Modification Program  failed miserably at its
stated goal of helping struggling homeowners. In part, that’s
 because  companies and divisions of major banks that service
mortgage loans often can make  more money  from foreclosures than
from loan modifications.  It didn’t bother the banking industry’s “ robo-signers ” that
they risked committing perjury when they signed false  affidavits 
filed in courthouses across the country to speed foreclosures
along. Now, Bank of America would have us believe that all of
these former employees were making things up under penalty of
perjury when they came forward and told their stories.  Loan Modifications  The former employees’ statements were filed with a federal
court in  Boston  as part of a  lawsuit  against Bank of America by
homeowners who say they were improperly denied permanent loan
modifications. Bank of America says it will respond to the
statements in greater detail in a court filing.  The workers gave horrific accounts about Bank of America’s
compliance with the Home Affordable Modification Program. One
consistent theme was that they said they were told to deceive
borrowers about the status of their applications.  “My colleagues and I were instructed to inform homeowners
that modification documents were not received on time, not
received at all, or that documents were missing, even when, in
fact, all documents were received in full and on time,” said
Theresa Terrelonge of  Grand Prairie ,  Texas , who worked at Bank
of America from 2009 to 2010 as a loan-servicing representative.
She said workers “were awarded incentives such as $25 in cash,
or as a restaurant gift card” based on “how many applications
for loan modifications they could decline.”  Simone Gordon of Orange,  New Jersey , who left Bank of
America in 2012, gave a similar account. “Employees were
rewarded by meeting a quota of placing a specific number of
accounts into foreclosure, including accounts in which the
borrower fulfilled a HAMP trial period,” Gordon said. “For
example, a collector who placed ten or more accounts into
foreclosure in a given month received a $500 bonus.” Other
rewards for  placing  accounts into  foreclosure  included gift
cards to Target or Bed Bath & Beyond.  “We were regularly drilled that it was our job to maximize
fees for the bank by fostering and extending delay of the HAMP
modification process by any means we could -- this included by
lying to customers,” Gordon said.  William Wilson, a Bank of America underwriter and manager
in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , from 2010 to 2012, described what
he said was called a “blitz.” About twice a month, he said, Bank
of America would order case managers and underwriters to clean
out the backlog of HAMP applications by rejecting any file in
which the documents were more than 60 days old. Employees were
instructed to “enter a reason that would justify declining the
modification to the Treasury Department,” Wilson said.  A Blitz  “Justifications commonly included claiming that the
homeowner had failed to return requested documents or had failed
to make payments,” he said. “In reality these justifications
were untrue. I personally reviewed hundreds of files in which
the computer systems showed that the homeowner had fulfilled a
trial period plan and was entitled to a permanent loan
modification,” but was nevertheless declined during a blitz.  “On many occasions, homeowners who did not receive the
permanent modification that they were entitled to ultimately
lost their homes to foreclosure,” he said.  After Bloomberg wrote last week about the former employees’
statements, the top Democrat on the House Financial Services
Committee, Maxine Waters, sent a  letter  to  Christy Romero , the
special inspector general of the Troubled Asset Relief Program,
asking that her office investigate. Yet it’s hard to get one’s
hopes up about the government’s desire to get at the truth.  There already has been a $25 billion nationwide whitewash
of a  settlement  between regulators and big banks over improper
foreclosure practices, along with billion-dollar payments under
a different settlement to consultants who were hired to review
those practices. Nobody was prosecuted, much less wrist-slapped.  This week, the court-appointed monitor overseeing
compliance with the terms of the national mortgage settlement
 said  he  found  “more work needs to be done” by big mortgage
servicers to improve their treatment of customers. But neither
he nor the regulators have ever reported anything as dubious
as the conduct described in the former Bank of America
employees’ court declarations. Perhaps they just missed a bunch
of stuff.  If there was a good reason to believe that the government’s
priority is to investigate big banks rather than protect them,
maybe Bank of America’s blanket denial would seem more credible.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  