-- Banks Charge Consumer Bureau Big Data Collection Breaks Law
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-06-20T15:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/banks-charge-consumer-bureau-big-data-collection-breaks-law.html
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is
accusing the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau of breaking
the law in collecting detailed information on individual credit-card accounts.  “The bureau has not issued an order or regulation imposing
on businesses an obligation to provide account-level data on an
ongoing basis,” David Hirschmann, chief executive officer of
the chamber’s Center for Capital Markets Competitiveness, wrote
in a June 19 letter to the agency. “Because it has failed to
comply with this statutory requirement, we believe the Bureau’s
data demands are unlawful.”  Hirschman called on the bureau to address how it collects
and protects data “expeditiously, transparently and in
detail.”  In charging that the bureau’s data-collection work violates
the law, the chamber cited the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act that created
the agency. The legislation speaks of data collection “in such
form and within such reasonable period of time as the Bureau may
prescribe by rule or order.”  “The bureau’s existing data-gathering activities are
authorized by the Dodd-Frank Act and do not require additional
rulemaking,” said Jen Howard, a spokeswoman for CFPB. The law
requires the agency to collect information from companies it
supervises to assess compliance with consumer-protection laws
and detect risks to consumers, she said.  The center, which does not disclose its membership, has
spoken out about the data collection at the behest of large
banks who help the bureau, according to two people briefed on
its work. The CFPB’s program has consisted of both purchases of
commercially available data and requests for data from the banks
that CFPB directly supervises, those with assets of more than
$10 billion.  Practice Defended  The bureau’s data collection became the subject of an April
23 hearing at which CFPB Director  Richard Cordray  insisted it
didn’t invade consumers’ privacy, is crucial to good regulation
and mimics approaches already in wide use in the private sector.  “The big banks know more about you than you know about
yourself,” Cordray said at a hearing of the Senate Banking
Committee. “And me, too, as a consumer.”  The chamber also asked for more information about how the
bureau intends to protect the confidentiality of the data.  The business group said the agency is implementing a system
that assigns an “identifier” to data unique to each
individual, while leaving out the consumer’s name. “If the
bureau does take this step, that will enable the bureau to
construct even more detailed profiles of individuals’ financial
activities,” the chamber wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  