-- Bernanke Sneezes, Global Markets Catch a Cold
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-20T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/bernanke-sneezes-global-markets-catch-a-cold.html
Stocks worldwide fell after Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s  June 19 statement  on U.S.
monetary policy.  Emerging markets  were hit especially hard. The
statement, and Bernanke’s  comments  afterward, shouldn’t have
come as a surprise -- so what’s going on? Was the sell-off a
meaningless overreaction, or a warning of new financial stresses
ahead?  A bit of both. Bernanke said the Fed’s program of
quantitative easing would be reduced over the next year or so,
and probably ended in 2014 -- so long as the economy continued
to strengthen as the Fed expects. He also reiterated his plan 
to keep short-term interest rates on the floor for longer than
that. Again, none of this was unexpected. It would have been
shocking if he’d said anything else.  In that sense financial markets overreacted, as they are
apt to do. But Bernanke also focused investors’ attention on the
challenges of a return to normalcy in global financial
conditions -- because that’s what the tapering of QE and the
(still distant) prospect of higher short-term interest rates
represent. Monetary policy quite rightly went far out on a limb
in the aftermath of the recession, and getting off that limb was
never going to be easy. Anxiety over this maneuver isn’t
misplaced.  For the past several years, central banks, led by the Fed,
have provided extraordinary liquidity to global markets, driving
down interest rates and leading investors to search far and wide
for decent returns. Capital has flowed into  emerging markets . As
normal prices and valuations are restored, these flows are bound
to be partially reversed, and assets whose prices were bid up
will get cheaper. The process had already begun; this week it
accelerated.  The danger is that the adjustment will be so abrupt that it
causes collateral damage, or that asset prices might fluctuate
wildly as the market finds equilibrium. It has long been argued
that there’d be less volatility if policy makers made their
intentions clearer, but at the moment this doesn’t look so
plausible. Bernanke has worked hard to provide greater
transparency about the Fed’s thinking, and  it hasn’t helped .  To paraphrase  the bumper sticker , volatility happens, and
there’s not much policy makers can do about it. But they can
help their economies and financial systems to take these lurches
in stride. Here’s the real cause for complaint -- and alarm.
Work to strengthen banking systems in advanced and emerging
economies alike has barely begun. Financial systems are still
seriously undercapitalized, and their capacity to absorb losses
is too thin. This makes volatility much more dangerous than it
needs to be -- and it’s a vicious circle, because fragile
systems are more susceptible to panic, which in turn amplifies
the volatility.  In many emerging markets, this danger is compounded by weak
and opaque supervision, and by other homegrown policy
challenges. Long before sentiment moved further against
emerging-market stocks on June 19, investors in  China  were
grappling with signs of a serious slowdown and government moves
to slow the supply of credit.  India  is juggling a limited
liberalization of its financial system, a huge current-account
deficit and a falling rupee. Emergent middle classes in  Brazil ,
 Chile ,  Russia  and  Turkey , to name just a few, see their
prospects dimming and are demanding action.  Instability in emerging markets -- in financial markets
anywhere -- is a given, especially over the next few years. The
right thing to ask of governments is greater resilience. That’s
within their power to deliver.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 