-- Bernanke Damage Limited With Few Inflows to Lose: Russia Credit
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-06-21T10:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/bernanke-damage-limited-with-few-inflows-to-lose-russia-credit.html
Russia is poised to suffer less than
its emerging-market peers from  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to halt
the  Federal Reserve ’s unprecedented quantitative easing program
because most of the hot money it created went elsewhere.  Russia’s 10-year ruble bond yields climbed 29 basis points
yesterday to 7.71 percent, the most in eight months. That
compares with a 40 basis-point increase for 10-year debt of
 Poland , a 24 point jump for  Brazil  and 85 points for  Turkey ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s practically no hot money in our  capital
markets ,” Deputy Finance Minister Alexei Moiseev said yesterday
in an interview at the St. Petersburg International Economic
Forum. “This has impacted our valuations, but it’s also kept a
bubble from forming that could burst.”  The world’s largest energy exporter hasn’t had a year of
net  capital inflows  since 2007 and the economy, starved of
investment, has slowed to the weakest pace since a contraction
four years ago. President  Vladimir Putin ’s government only made
its ruble debt directly available to non-Russians through
systems including Euroclear Bank SA this year, while corporate
debt and shares are still restricted.  Fed Tapering  The Fed will probably taper its $85 billion in monthly bond
buying later in 2013 and halt purchases around mid-2014 as long
as the world’s largest economy performs in line with its
projections, Bernanke told reporters June 19 in Washington after
a two-day meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee .  Portfolio inflows into Russia between the second quarter of
2009 and the end of last year were about 1 percent of gross
domestic product, compared with 7 percent in Brazil, 10 percent
in Turkey and  Mexico  and 16 percent in Poland,  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
said in a June 13 research report.  “The positioning in Russia is less stretched than in some
other markets, like Mexico, so it actually might outperform,”
Viktor Szabo, who helps oversee $12 billion in emerging-market
assets at Aberdeen Investment Management Ltd. in London, said by
e-mail. “Russian rates have not come down as aggressively as in
most emerging-market countries, that also helps.”  Russia’s central bank has kept its main lending rates
unchanged for nine months following a quarter-point increase in
September, while also lowering some less-used borrowing costs at
the last three meetings.  Rusal, VTB  Three-month borrowing costs may drop 11 basis points to
6.92 percent over the next three months, according to forward-rate agreements tracked by Bloomberg.  United Co. Rusal (486) , the world’s largest aluminum producer,
also downplayed concerns that the scaled-back monetary easing
from the Fed would hurt Russian borrowers.  “The overall effect should be neutral,” Vladislav Soloviev, first deputy chief executive officer of Rusal, said in
an interview in St. Petersburg. “The  money supply  has already
been so large that its decrease shouldn’t have a major impact on
borrowing costs.”  Still, there have been some signs of discomfort since the
Fed first said it may trim its monetary-stimulus measures.  Stocks Effect  Outflows from Russian equity funds in the week to June 12
were $524 million, the most since October 2011 and the biggest
exodus among  emerging markets  alongside Brazil, according to a
June 14 note from  OAO Sberbank (SBER) , citing EPFR Global data.  Winding down QE will worsen conditions for borrowers in
Russia, said Andrey Kostin, chief executive officer of VTB
Group, Russia’s second-largest lender.  “The concern is that monetary policy becomes tighter, it
will immediately be reflected in funding costs and on demand not
only in Western countries, but naturally also in developing
markets,” Kostin told reporters in  St. Petersburg  yesterday.
“There could be a squeeze that will seriously affect banks and
business in general. That’s a concern.”  The ruble slid for a fourth day against the dollar
yesterday, depreciating 1.8 percent to 33.0460, the weakest
since July 10, 2012. The currency gained 0.7 percent to 32.82 as
of 2:22 p.m. in Moscow. The yield on Russia’s dollar bond due
April 2042 jumped 39 basis points to 5.43 percent, yesterday,
the highest in a year. The yield was down three basis points
today.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russia’s debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries was unchanged today at 247, compared
with 228 for debt of Mexico, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
indexes. Ruble bonds have declined 1.6 percent this quarter,
compared with a 3.8 percent return for India’s securities and a
0.1 percent drop for China’s, according to JPMorgan.  “Rumors over the past two weeks that QE would be halted
led to a significant destabilization on global markets, which
also had an impact on  Russia ,” Ksenia Yudaeva, head of the
Kremlin’s expert department, said in an interview in St.
Petersburg. “Looking purely objectively at the ruble, Russian
assets haven’t been a major destination in the search for
yield.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in St. Petersburg at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in St. Petersburg at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  