-- Biggest Muni ETF Lowest Since 2011 After Bernanke Rattles Market
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-06-20T18:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/biggest-muni-etf-lowest-since-2011-after-bernanke-rattles-market.html
The largest exchange-traded fund
tracking the U.S. municipal-bond market fell to the lowest price
in almost two years and the week’s two biggest sales were
delayed as the  Federal Reserve  said it may stop buying debt.  The  $3.6 billion  iShares S&P National AMT-Free Municipal
Bond Fund, known as MUB, fell to  $104.10 (MUB)  at 2:26 p.m. in  New
York  today, the lowest since August 2011 and the biggest one-day
price drop since February 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The price decline mirrored changes in the $3.7 trillion
municipal market, where tax-exempt yields rose along with those
on Treasuries, said David Manges, muni trading manager at BNY
Mellon Capital Markets LLC in Pittsburgh. Yields move in the
opposite direction of prices.  “The muni market is in a free-fall today,” Manges said.
“It’s tough to get a sense of value or benchmark spreads
because prices are so fluid.”  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke yesterday said the central
bank plans to slow its bond-buying program this year and end its
monthly purchases of federal debt and mortgage securities in
mid-2014, if the economy continues to improve. Yields on 10-year
Treasuries climbed to  2.43 percent , the highest since August
2011, Bloomberg data show.  Mutual funds and other institutional buyers of munis put
about  $900 million  of state and local debt up for sale
yesterday, Bloomberg data show. That compares with a one-year
daily average of $548 million.  Deals Delayed  Yields on benchmark 30-year municipals increased to about
 3.68 percent  at 2 p.m. in New York, the highest since Jan. 9,
2012.  The California Health Facilities Financing Authority
postponed a $764 million sale for St. Joseph Health System, the
biggest muni sale of the week, Bloomberg data show.  Brian Greene, a spokesman for St. Joseph Health System,
said he wasn’t able to immediately comment on the sale. Bill
Ainsworth, a spokesman for California Treasurer Bill Lockyer and
the authority, didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment on the postponement.  New York’s  Metropolitan Transportation Authority , which
operates the biggest U.S. transit system, delayed a $350 million
bond sale because of “market volatility,” Aaron Donovan, a
spokesman, said in an e-mail. The transit authority plans to
sell the bonds in the next two to three weeks, Donovan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  