-- Billionaire Steyer Rejects Trade With Obama on Keystone
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-06-20T16:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/billionaire-steyer-rejects-trade-with-obama-on-keystone.html
President  Barack Obama ’s adoption of
measures to combat climate change shouldn’t be seen as a trade
off for approving the Keystone XL pipeline, a top donor to his
re-election campaign said.  Hedge-fund billionaire Tom Steyer unveiled a social-media
campaign today meant to organize supporters and pressure the
president to reject the pipeline, which would carry oil sands
from  Alberta  to refineries along the Gulf of Mexico. Steyer
hired a former Obama campaign digital producer, Tara McGowan, to
help run the effort.  “There are cynics around the country who say Obama is
going to trade Keystone” for other climate measures, Steyer, a
co-founder of hedge fund Farallon Capital Management LLC, said
at the National Press Club in  Washington . “But the question is:
Who is the trade with, and what is the quid pro quo?”  Obama in coming weeks will outline steps his administration
will take to deal with climate change, including pursuing
Environmental Protection Agency curbs on emissions from power
plants, establishing energy-efficiency standards for appliances
and approving more clean energy on public lands,  Heather Zichal ,
his energy aide, said yesterday.  In a speech yesterday in Berlin, Obama said the U.S. “will
do more” to cut carbon emissions. “The effort to slow climate
change requires bold action,” Obama said, warning that more
severe storms, famines and floods will affect all nations.
“This is the global threat of our time.”  ‘Good, Bad’  None of the actions Zichal suggested can compensate for
approving  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s $5.3 billion the pipeline, Steyer
and other activists said today.  “When you raise your kids, you cannot say, ‘Here is this
one good thing I am doing, so ignore all the other bad things I
am doing over here,’” said Van Jones, a former White House
adviser on green jobs.  Steyer’s effort is aimed at using the online tools deployed
by the Obama presidential campaign to press him to turn down the
application by TransCanada. Organizing for Action, the policy
group that emerged from the re-election campaign that raised
$4.9 million in the first three months of this year, hasn’t
taken a stand on Keystone.  For Obama, the downside “is making a big mistake,” Steyer
said at a Bloomberg Government meeting with reports and editors
today. “I know this is something they consider to be a red
herring, but I think substantively it’s a very big thing.”  “Everyday the likelihood he approves the pipeline goes
down,” he said.  The pipeline would carry about 830,000 barrels a day from
the oil sands of Alberta and shale formations in the U.S. across
six U.S. states. The administration has approved the line’s
southern leg to relieve an oil glut in Cushing,  Oklahoma .  Oil and gas producers say the project will create thousands
of jobs and boost U.S. energy security. Environmentalists argue
that the process for turning oil sands into fuel releases
greater greenhouse gases than traditional oil, and that there
are risks the pipeline could burst, spewing toxic sludge into
communities along the route.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  