-- Blackhawks Tie Stanley Cup Final With 6-5 Victory Over Bruins
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-06-20T04:25:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/blackhawks-tie-stanley-cup-final-with-6-5-victory-over-bruins.html
Brent Seabrook scored on a 59-foot
slapshot in overtime as the  Chicago Blackhawks  defeated the 
Boston Bruins 6-5 to even the National Hockey League Stanley Cup
Final at two games each.  The Blackhawks host Game 5 in the best-of-seven series on
June 22.  “We did a lot of good things,” Blackhawks coach Joel Quenneville told reporters. “We’ll look at the positives and
move forward.”  The Bruins snapped a 39-year wait for a sixth championship
in 2011, a year after the Blackhawks ended a 49-year wait for a
fourth NHL title.  Chicago’s Michal Handzus scored a shorthanded goal for a 1-0 lead before  Rich Peverley  got a power-play score with five
minutes, 17 seconds left in the first period at TD Garden in
Boston.  The Blackhawks got goals from  Jonathan Toews ,  Patrick Kane 
and Marcus Kruger, while Milan Lucic and  Patrice Bergeron  scored
for the Bruins in the second period to take the score to 4-3 to
Chicago.  Bergeron tied the game 2:05 into the third period and
Johnny Boychuk scored to force overtime 55 seconds after  Patrick Sharp  gave the Blackhawks a 5-4 lead.  “They got some momentum scoring that power-play goal there,
obviously tying it up twice,” said Quenneville. “Looked like
they were in a good spot. I still thought in the third period we
didn’t give up a ton. It was a five-on-five game. Still had
composure going into the overtime.”  Seabrook’s goal -- his third of the playoffs -- came 9:51
into overtime. It was the third game of the series to reach
overtime.  Blackhawks goalie Corey Crawford had 28 saves, while Tuukka Rask had 41 saves for the Bruins.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  