-- BNP Polish Unit Starts Share Sale to Boost Free Float, Lending
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2013-06-20T09:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/bnp-polish-unit-starts-share-sale-to-boost-free-float-lending.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ’s  Polish unit  plans
to raise about 300 million zloty ($92.7 million) from a public
share offering to meet the financial regulator’s requirement to
increase the amount of its  stock trading  on the  Warsaw Stock
Exchange .  The bank is selling as many as 8.58 million shares and set
a price range of 35 zloty to 45 zloty a share, according to a
term sheet obtained by  Bloomberg News . Proceeds will depend on
the final price, which will be set on June 27, when book-building for institutions ends, it said.  Paris-based BNP Paribas and its units will buy 3 million
shares and the rest will be sold to investors, allowing the bank
to increase its free float, or the portion of the company that
trades on the stock market, to a mandatory 15 percent.  The offering follows the 4.89 billion-zloty sale of a stake
in its bigger competitor, Bank Zachodni WBK SA, by KBC Groep NV
and Banco Santander SA in March. Earlier this year, the Polish
government sold a 5.24 billion-zloty stake in PKO Bank Polski
SA, the country’s biggest lender, and  Italy ’s UniCredit SpA sold
a 3.73 billion-zloty holding in its Bank Pekao SA unit.  BNP Paribas intends to use about 94 percent of the proceeds
to expand lending, and spend the rest to remodel branches and
improve its Internet banking service, it said. The bank doesn’t
rule out takeovers in  Poland .  Citigroup Inc. is the global coordinator and joint
bookrunner on the offering, while ING Bank NV, BRE Bank SA and
Santander are co-lead managers.  The unit’s first-quarter net income jumped to 30.8 million
zloty from 9.9 million zloty a year earlier, while total loans
amounted to 16.6 billion zloty. Its solvency ratio, a measure of
capital strength, is above 12 percent and loans amount to 110
percent of deposits, it said.  The Warsaw-based unit, which is under a restructuring
program until the end of next year, won’t pay a dividend by
2015, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  