-- Cessna Mired in Private-Jet Slump Raises Prices
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-06-20T11:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/boeing-sets-future-787-freighter-to-fend-off-airbus-jets.html
Textron Inc. (TXT) ’s Cessna unit bucked
the slump in business-jet sales by raising prices, betting that
it can halt tumbling aircraft values even if it means
sacrificing orders, Chief Executive Officer Scott Donnelly said.  “We’ve been reducing prices for the last few years and
it’s gotten to the point where it doesn’t make sense to do
business at those prices,” Donnelly said yesterday in an
interview. “We are seeing some improved pricing, but as you can
imagine we are seeing some reduced demand.”  That stand is the only way to break a “dive to the
bottom” in which manufacturers’ price cuts for new planes erode
the value of used jets, adding to the industry strain, Donnelly
said at the  Paris Air Show . He declined to give details on the
size or timing of the increases at Wichita, Kansas-based Cessna.  Business-jet makers have yet to pull out of a slide that
began in 2008 as corporate buyers and wealthy individuals pared
purchases during the global financial crisis. Industry-wide
deliveries of 672 last year were 42 percent less than in 2008,
according to a June 6 report by Joseph Nadol, a JPMorgan Chase &
Co. analyst in  New York . He rates Textron as overweight.  It’s not clear whether the price-increase strategy is going
to work, said Donnelly, 51, who became CEO of Providence, Rhode
Island-based Textron in December 2009.  Wait, See  “Until we’ve been out there six months or nine months, you
don’t really know if you’ve done this correctly or not,” he
said. “We’re going to hold where we are and wait to see some
more recovery in the market.”  Textron fell  8.3 percent through yesterday to $26.90 since
April 16, the day before the company said that  Cessna  was
shrinking output after reporting a drop in first-quarter
aircraft shipments to 32 from 38 a year earlier.  List prices for Cessna’s Citation jets range from $3.3
million for the Mustang, which can carry five passengers and
boasts a range of 1,150 nautical miles (2,130 kilometers), up to
$26 million for the Longitude, which seats eight people and can
fly 4,000 nautical miles, according to the company website.  Sales of the lightest jets, a category that includes planes
such as the Mustang, have been hit the hardest, Nadol wrote in a
June 6 report.  Buyers choosing between new and used planes in recent years
have found prices sliding in the secondhand market. The average
price fell 3.2 percent last year following a 5.5 percent decline
in 2011, Nadol wrote. After holding “flattish” in first four
months of this year, the average price dropped 3.6 percent in
May, he wrote.  ‘Nobody Knows’  Indicators such as corporate profits, low company debt and
a growing U.S. economy have been pointing to a rebound of the
business jet market, Donnelly said. After predicting that
turnaround for the last couple of years, Donnelly said he’s
“not guessing anymore. Nobody knows.”  Beechcraft Corp.’s shutdown of its Hawker jet business last
year as part of a bankruptcy restructuring eliminated a money-losing competitor and strengthened the industry, Donnelly said.  Cessna plans to stick with its development plans for new
models, betting the market has to rebound eventually, Donnelly
said. This year, the company plans to introduce the seven-passenger Citation M2 and the Sovereign, which seats nine
people. The Citation Latitude is scheduled for 2015 and the
eight-passenger Longitude in 2017.  In the meantime, Cessna is bracing for the pain from price
increases, Donnelly said.  “We know that’s going to affect demand, but that’s what
we’re going to do,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  