-- BofA Turns Bearish on Corporate Bonds With Buyers Fleeing ETFs
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-06-20T17:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/bofa-turns-bearish-on-corporate-bonds-with-buyers-fleeing-etfs.html
Bank of America Corp.  strategists
are recommending bearish wagers on investment-grade corporate
bonds as investors flee exchange-traded funds that own the debt
at the fastest pace in more than four years.  “We move to a tactical underweight stance on high grade by
buying protection on the CDX IG,” an index of credit-default
swaps pegged to investment-grade debt, according to a June 19
report from Bank of America’s Hans Mikkelsen and Yuriy Shchuchinov. “We think that in the short term investment grade
credit spreads are biased wider,” they wrote.  Investors are souring on the debt after Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the central bank may start slowing
stimulus efforts that have funneled more than $2.5 trillion into
the financial system since 2008. He said yesterday that the Fed
may “moderate” its pace of bond purchases later this year
provided that economic risks subside.  Shares of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s $21 billion  investment-grade
bond ETF  have plunged 3.7 percent this month as of 11:58 a.m. in
New York, the biggest decline for a month since February 2009,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Shares have dropped the
furthest  below  corporate-bond prices since August 2011,
signaling that the fund may reduce holdings to lower its net
asset value, the data show.  Redemptions from mutual funds and ETFs probably will
accelerate in response to the declining prices, the Bank of
America strategists wrote.  Dollar-denominated investment-grade bonds declined 1.5
percent this month through yesterday as rising U.S. Treasury
yields eat into the notes’ value, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show. They’ve lost more than the government notes as
investors increase the amount of extra yield they demand to
protect against deteriorating creditworthiness by 10 basis
points this month, to 157 basis points, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  