-- Bond Auctions Fail From Russia to Korea as Brazil Protests Rage
-- B y   Y e   X i e ,   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-06-21T22:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/bond-auctions-fail-from-russia-to-korea-as-brazil-protests-rage.html
Developing nations around the world
are scaling back or canceling billions of dollars of bond sales
as borrowing costs climb the most since 2008, just as spending
needs increase amid slowing economic growth.  Romania’s  Finance Ministry  rejected all bids at a seven-year bond sale yesterday because of market volatility, while
South Korea raised less than 10 percent of the amount planned in
an auction of inflation-linked bonds. Russia scrapped a sale of
15-year ruble-denominated bonds June 19, the second time it
canceled an auction this month, and  Colombia  pared an offering
of 20-year peso debt by 40 percent. A cash shortage led to
failures last week of  China  Ministry of Finance debt sales.  The tumble in bonds, stocks and currencies, spurred by
investors’ biggest retreat from  emerging markets  in two years,
is tightening credit as the  Federal Reserve  says it may end
cheap money that had made investment plentiful. Yields on local-currency  emerging-nation bonds  surged 82 basis points this month
to 6.58 percent, the biggest increase in five years. In  Turkey 
and  Brazil , anti-government protests are challenging development
plans that require additional funding.  “Trying to issue local-currency debt is much more
difficult, because nobody wants it, and U.S. dollar debt, which
there’ll probably be some demand for, is just going to be a lot
more expensive,”  Michael Shaoul , chairman of Marketfield Asset
Management, which oversees about $10 billion, said in a phone
interview in  New York . For countries with a high level of debt
service payments, “you’re going to see a significant worsening
of the fiscal position,” he said.  $3.9 Trillion  More than $6.9 billion left funds investing in developing-nation debt in the four weeks to June 19, the most since 2011,
according to Morgan Stanley, citing EPFR Global data. The exodus
is reversing the $3.9 trillion of cash that flowed into emerging
markets in the past four years as China’s annual economic growth
averaged 9.2 percent and spurred demand for Brazilian  iron ore ,
Russian oil and gas and Chilean copper.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19 that the central
bank may taper its monthly purchases of $85 billion in assets
later this year and halt them around mid-2014 as long as the
world’s largest economy performs in line with its projections.
China’s benchmark money-market rate climbed to a record and a
preliminary report showed manufacturing shrank at a faster pace
this month.  Rupee Sinks  MSCI Inc.’s emerging-market stock index  slumped for a
fourth day and was headed toward the biggest weekly loss in 13
months. Brazil’s real touched a four-year low this week while
the Indian rupee and Turkish lira sank to records.  The MSCI index fell 0.9 percent to a one-year low of
900.54.  Brazil’s Treasury sold 17 percent of the fixed-rate
securities and 88 percent of the zero-coupon bonds it offered at
auctions today. Yields on the benchmark fixed-rate bonds due
2021 held at a 17-month high of 11.57 percent today and have
increased 172 basis points over the past month.  Romania rejected all 688 million lei ($201 million) of bids
at a bond sale yesterday because of “unacceptable price
offers,” according to an e-mailed statement from the central
bank. It was the first failure since August.  South Korea sold just 9 percent of the 600 billion won
($520 million) it targeted from 10-year inflation-linked bonds
this week. Colombia’s government pared an auction on June 19 of
20-year inflation-linked peso bonds by 40 percent, to 150
billion pesos ($77 million).  ‘Big Implications’  “The tapering genie is now out of the bottle and that will
have some big implications,” Adrian Zuercher, head of emerging-market strategy at Credit Suisse ( Hong Kong ) Ltd., an asset
management unit of Credit Suisse Group AG that oversees $450
billion, said in an interview yesterday. “The competition for
emerging-market bonds has increased and investors will ask for
higher yields there.”  Russia canceled planned sales of 10 billion rubles ($304
million) of notes this week, citing a lack of demand within an
acceptable yield range of 7.70 percent to 7.75 percent. Yields
on ruble bonds due in 2028 jumped 30 basis points, or 0.30
percentage point, yesterday to 8.1 percent, the highest level
since the debt was sold in January.  The Russian Finance Ministry scrapped a June 5 auction
ahead of schedule and shelved a sale on May 22 due to a lack of
competitive bids.  China Sales  In China, the Finance Ministry sold 9.53 billion  yuan  ($1.6
billion) of 273-day bills June 14, falling short of the 15
billion-yuan target, according to Chinabond, the nation’s
biggest bond-clearing house. It was the first time the
government didn’t sell all of the debt offered at an auction in
23 months. Countries including Indonesia and Egypt also scaled
back debt sales this month.  “Bond auctions in emerging-market Asia have been poorly
received and that’s likely to continue as long as market
volatility remains,” Wee-Khoon Chong, a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Societe Generale SA, said in an interview
yesterday. “While the higher yields would make bonds more
attractive, the severe upside pressure in rates for now is
likely to see more investors and dealers at the side line.”  Some countries are better prepared than others for the
prospect of Fed policy changes.  Mexican Borrowing  Mexico’s government took advantage of lower borrowing costs
earlier this year to lock in yields on benchmark bonds as low as
4.48 percent as it boosted the average local-currency debt
maturity to 8.25 years, about 14 times longer than in 1994, the
year of the Tequila Crisis, when U.S. interest rate increases
helped spark a peso devaluation that fueled capital outflows
across  Latin America .  Poland has financed 88 percent of this year’s borrowing
needs and may not hold any bond sales in July and August if
markets are unfavorable, Deputy Finance Minister Wojciech Kowalczyk said at a parliamentary hearing in Warsaw yesterday.
Yields on 10-year  Polish bonds  increased to 4.26 percent
yesterday, the highest level since November.  Auctions typically fail because governments don’t want to
sell the bonds at expensive prices, not because they are unable
to attract enough buyers, according to Arturo Porzecanski, a
professor of international finance at American University.  “Governments usually can get the funding that they want,”
Porzecanski said in a phone interview in New York. “It’s a
question of the yield they’re willing to validate.”  Debt Ratios  Countries with higher debt-to-gross domestic product
ratios, such as Brazil at 59 percent, face the biggest
challenges as borrowing costs rise, according to Marketfield’s
Shaoul.  Malaysia, Brazil, Czech Republic, Hungary and Turkey have
the highest funding risk among developing nations because they
are those with larger borrowing needs and have only met a small
portion of their requirements for the year, Citigroup Inc.
analysts led by Monty Gandhi wrote in a report dated yesterday.  The disruption comes at a time when emerging economies are
slowing more than previously anticipated. China’s  manufacturing 
is shrinking at a faster pace this month as the  Purchasing
Managers ’ Index fell to 48.3 in June from 49.2, according to a
preliminary reading released yesterday by HSBC Holdings Plc. and
Markit Economics.  Growth Forecasts  The  World Bank  lowered its forecast this month for China’s
expansion in 2013 to 7.7 percent, which would be the slowest
since 1999, from an 8.4 percent estimate in January. The
Washington-based institution cut its forecast for developing-nation growth this year to 5.1 percent, from 5.5 percent.  Government reports showed yesterday that Russian  consumer
spending  decelerated in May, with disposable incomes
unexpectedly shrinking for the first time since October 2011.  “The emerging market fundamentals have been
deteriorating,” Rashique Rahman, a developing-market strategist
at Morgan Stanley in New York, said in a phone interview
yesterday. “Volatility has raised  risk premium , suggesting
monetary conditions are tightening. There’s a possibility it
could develop into a negative feedback loop.”  The lack of reforms to improve productivity over the last
few years has exhausted the growth potential among major
developing economies, fueling social unrest, according Rahman.  Turkey, Brazil  Anti-government protests, sparked by anger over a planned
development in Istanbul, spread nationwide in Turkey May 31,
marking the most serious unrest during Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s decade in power.  In Brazil, protests erupted over an increase in bus fares
and have spread across the country in the biggest demonstrations
in the South American country in two decades.         While
authorities in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro said June 19 that
they were scrapping fare changes, rallies for better public
services and an end to corruption drew almost 1 million people
in 27 capital cities yesterday, Folha newspaper reported. A
teenager and 54-year-old street cleaner died during the
protests, according to local officials and military police.  “What we need to see is policy reforms and adjustment,”
said Morgan Stanley’s Rahman. “These are difficult
challenges.”  In the overseas markets, average dollar borrowing costs for
developing-country companies increased to a one-year-high of
5.86 percent yesterday, according to data compiled by JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  ‘Falling Knife’  The increase in yields is causing companies to delay
funding efforts. Minerva SA, Brazil’s third-largest beef
producer, canceled a plan to sell perpetual dollar-denominated
bonds June 17, four days after Odebrecht SA, a Salvador, Brazil-based construction and engineering firm, pulled a debt offering.  Isagen SA, Colombia’s second-biggest publicly traded power
company by sales, said June 18 that it will delay a planned
local bond offer as yields in the country jumped to 16-month
highs.  At least 11 Chinese companies, including  Guangdong
Construction Engineering Group Co., has delayed bond sales this
week as the nation’s cash crunch persists.  While Brazil has taken advantage of falling prices to buy
back bonds and said it has enough reserves to buffer swings in
the market for three to six months, higher U.S. yields will
continue to lure capital away from developing nations, according
to  Paul McNamara , who manages $9 billion in emerging-market debt
at GAM Investment. U.S. Treasury yields touched 2.47 percent
yesterday, the highest level since August 2011.  “It’s going to be painful,” said McNamara in a phone
interview from London yesterday. “People don’t catch a falling
knife.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  