-- Bosman Lawyer Takes Complaint on UEFA Finance Rules to Court
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-06-20T16:13:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/bosman-lawyer-takes-complaint-on-uefa-finance-rules-to-court.html
A player agent today filed a
complaint at a Belgian court about European soccer finance rules
that aim to stop teams such as Paris Saint Germain and
 Manchester City  spending more than their income.  Daniel Striani, who also lodged a complaint with the
European Commission on May 6, said European soccer governing
body UEFA’s rules infringe European Union competition law and
the right to free movement of workers, service and capital,
according to a statement distributed by the office of his lawyer
Jean-Louis Dupont.  In a landmark case, Dupont successfully overturned rules on
player transfers in 1995 on behalf of Belgian player Jean-Marc
Bosman.  Striani’s complaint today was filed at the Court of First
Instance in Brussels, the statement said. He argues the so-called Financial Fair Play rules would decrease the income of
agents by reducing the number of players that clubs hire, and
reducing player salaries.  Nyon, Switzerland-based UEFA  said in a May 6 statement the
rules aim to guarantee the “long-term” stability of European
soccer and are in line with EU law.  Under the breakeven rule, clubs with a loss of more than 5
million euros ($6.6 million) last season or this season risk
exclusion from next season’s Champions League and Europa League,
the continent’s top club competitions. Clubs can have a loss of
up to 45 million euros a season if shareholders cover the loss.
The UEFA regulations don’t apply to domestic championships.  Manchester City, the 2012 English champion, is owned by
Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed  Al Nahyan  of  Abu Dhabi  and French
league champion Paris Saint-Germain is controlled by the Qatar
Investment Authority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  