-- Brazil Real Plunge Triggers Rally in Pulp Makers Fibria, Suzano
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-06-20T17:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/brazil-real-plunge-triggers-rally-in-pulp-makers-fibria-suzano.html
Fibria Celulose SA (FIBR3) , the world’s
largest pulp producer, rose to a two-month high in  Sao Paulo  as
Brazil’s currency tumbled for a fifth day, bolstering
exporters’ revenue.  The shares gained 3.8 percent to 24.87 reais at 2:09 p.m.
local time. A close at that level would be the highest since
April 9. Suzano Papel & Celulose SA, Brazil’s second-biggest
pulp company after Fibria, climbed 3.1 percent to 7.94 reais.
They were the two best-performing stocks on the Ibovespa
benchmark, which slumped 1.3 percent.  The real tumbled 1.6 percent to a four-year low, prompting
the central bank to intervene for a third day this week to stem
the selloff. Fibria and Suzano each get at least 78 percent of
their pulp revenue from outside  Brazil , according to
presentations posted on their websites.  “The higher dollar could benefit their results in the next
few quarters,” Joao Pedro Brugger, who helps manage 330 million
reais at Leme Investimentos, said by phone from Florianopolis,
Brazil. “The companies have done their homework well in terms
of cleaning up their balance sheets and could be a good choice
with the rising dollar and Brazilian stocks under pressure.”  The real has plunged 9.8 percent over the past 30 days, the
biggest monthly rout since September 2011. The currency briefly
erased its drop today as the central bank sold $2.99 billion of
foreign-exchange swap contracts, marking the seventh day of
intervention in three weeks to stem losses and contain
inflation.  Banco Santander Brasil SA analysts Alex Sciacio and Felipe
Reis raised their recommendation on Fibria to hold on June 14,
according to a research report. The stock is a “good vehicle to
weather current foreign exchange rate volatility” based on its
dollar-denominated revenue and deleveraging of the  balance
sheet , they wrote in a research note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  