-- Brazil World Cup Champ Calls for Hospitals Instead of Cup
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-06-20T18:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/brazil-world-cup-champ-calls-for-hospitals-instead-of-cup.html
A member of  Brazil ’s team that won
the 2002 World Cup, Rivaldo Ferreira, took to Twitter this week
to support protesters who say the 30 billion reais ($13.3
billion) being spent on next year’s tournament should go to
social services.  “It’s shameful to spend so much money for this World Cup
and leave the hospitals and schools in such a precarious
state,” posted Rivaldo, who said his father was hit by a car
and died after failing to receive medical attention in a public
hospital. “At this moment we aren’t in shape to host the World
Cup, we don’t need it, we need education and health.”  Protests initially staged in response to higher bus fares
have expanded to include issues from government corruption to
lack of adequate public services. While mayors of Sao Paulo, Rio
de Janeiro and other cities rolled back the fare increases,
demonstrations are scheduled tonight across the country. The
protests are taking place during the FIFA Confederations Cup,
which is being played in six new or renovated stadiums.  In a video posted online yesterday, soccer legend Pele
called on Brazilians to “forget all this confusion that’s
happening in Brazil” and refrain from booing the national
squad, which yesterday beat  Mexico  in Fortaleza.  Inside the arena, fans held up signs saying demonstrations
were against corruption, not the country’s squad. The signs bore
one of the movement’s slogans: “The giant has awakened,” a
reference to Brazil’s national anthem.  Ronaldo Approves  Ronaldo Luis Nazario de Lima, a two-time World Cup winner
and three-time recipient of FIFA’s player of the year award,
posted on his Twitter account that he has been proud to see the
protests and hopes they serve to improve management of public
funds.  Ronaldo, a member of the local organizing committee for the
2014 World Cup, also wrote he doubts Brazil would be any better
off had it not decided to host the tournament.  Romario de Souza Faria, a striker who won the Golden Ball
award in Brazil’s 1994 World Cup win and is now a federal
deputy, railed against Pele’s video in a press conference.  “Pele has absolutely no idea what’s going on in this
country, so he can’t speak such nonsense,” said Romario, who
has sparred publicly with Pele in the past. “He needs to shut
his mouth.”  Neymar da Silva Santos Jr., the phenomenon who in May
signed a deal worth 171 million reais to transfer to FC
Barcelona, wrote on his Facebook page before taking the field
yesterday that the protest movement had inspired him to play.  “I’m sad about everything that’s happening in Brazil,”
Neymar wrote in the post that garnered more than 100,000
’likes.’ “I always had faith that it wouldn’t be necessary to
reach the point where we need to go to the streets to demand
better transport, health, education and security, all that is
required of the government.”  Neymar netted one goal and one assist in Brazil’s 2-0
victory, its second thus far in the tournament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  