-- Brazil Real Falls to Four-Year Low on Fed, Sparking Intervention
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-06-20T22:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/brazil-real-touches-four-year-low-on-fed-spurring-intervention.html
Brazil’s real dropped to a four-year
low, prompting the central bank to intervene for a third day
this week to stem the selloff after the U.S. Federal Reserve
signaled yesterday that it may taper monetary stimulus.  The currency slid for a fifth day, depreciating 1.5 percent
to 2.2575 per  U.S. dollar , the weakest on a closing basis since
April 2009. The real and the Mexican peso are the worst
performers in the past month among 24 emerging-market dollar
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg. The  Ibovespa (IBOV)  equity index
rose 0.7 percent today after sinking into a  bear market  on June
11. Mexico’s IPC tumbled 3.9 percent.  The real extended its one-month decline to 9.6 percent,
which would be the biggest since September 2011. The currency
pared its drop today as the central bank sold $2.99 billion of
foreign-exchange swap contracts in the seventh day of
intervention in three weeks. It also offered $3 billion at two
auctions of currency credit lines.  “It’s very hard to actually impact the currency on a
sustainable basis,”  Eduardo Suarez , a Latin America strategist
at Bank of  Nova Scotia , said in a phone interview from Toronto.
“As long as they keep doing swaps, I think they can slow it but
not stop it. They face a really challenging situation.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday that policy
makers may start winding down the pace of asset purchases later
in 2013 and may end them around the middle of next year. Risks
to the outlook for the  U.S. economy  and the labor market have
diminished, the  Federal Open Market Committee  said yesterday at
the conclusion of a two-day meeting in  Washington .  Treasury Buybacks  Brazil’s Treasury bought back local fixed-rate and
inflation-linked bonds today to bolster demand for the
securities amid a market rout fueled by the speculation the Fed
will pare back stimulus. Today’s repurchase offer was the third
unscheduled one in a week. Yesterday’s auction produced no
buybacks, the Treasury said.  The Treasury said it bought back 239,000 inflation-linked
NTN-Bs, 600,000 fixed-rate NTN-Fs and 402,500 fixed-rate LTNs,
The government will offer to repurchase more bonds tomorrow.  Yields on fixed-rate bonds due in 2023, among the
securities the Treasury is offering to buy, have soared 1.35
percentage points this month to 11.88 percent, the highest level
since Brazil began selling them last year.  “The Treasury is doing its best to calm the market,”
Ricardo Tibau, a fixed-income trader at Renascenca DTVM, said in
a phone interview from Sao Paulo.  Moody’s View  Lackluster growth and rising debt levels in Brazil are
making it “more difficult to support” the positive outlook on
the nation’s Baa2 credit rating,  Mauro Leos , senior credit
officer at Moody’s Investors Service, said yesterday in a phone
interview from  New York .  Standard & Poor’s  cut the outlook on
its equivalent BBB rating for Brazil to negative on June 6.  Swap rates due in January climbed 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, to a 14-month high of 9.10 percent today on
speculation that a weakening real will spur the central bank to
maintain the pace of increases in borrowing costs.  Annual inflation accelerated for nine straight months
through March to 6.59 percent, exceeding the upper end of the
monetary authority’s target range of 2.50 percent to 6.50
percent. The  inflation  rate eased to 6.49 percent in April and
was 6.50 percent in May.  A series of street protests showed little sign of abating
after officials in Brazil’s two largest cities bowed to popular
demand and canceled an increase in bus fares.  The  central bank  raised its target lending rate by 50 basis
points on May 29 to 8 percent to curb inflation, surprising 38
of 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, who had expected a
second straight increase of 25 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  