-- Brazil Protests Persist After Cities Revoke Fare Increase
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t ,   A n n a   E d g e r t o n   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-06-20T17:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/brazil-protests-persist-after-cities-revoke-fare-increase.html
Banks fortified security and
authorities blocked access to public buildings in  Rio de Janeiro 
and Brasilia as protesters pledged more demonstrations for lower
bus fares.  In Rio de Janeiro, fences were put up around the governor’s
palace, while banks boarded up their branch offices, after
several were looted during the week-long protests triggered by a
20-centavo (10 cent) bus fare increase that authorities revoked
yesterday. In the nation’s capital, barriers went up and parking
lots were cleared around Congress to prevent a repeat of
attempts to storm the building.  Some of the demonstrators joining in the nation’s biggest
protests in more than two decades today vowed to remain on the
streets to demand free public transport, better public services
and combat corruption. The approval rating of President Dilma Rousseff’s government has fallen eight percentage points since
March, mostly over growing discontent with rising  inflation ,
according to an Ibope poll published yesterday.  Facebook events have been created for demonstrations this
afternoon in more than 100 Brazilian cities, including  Sao Paulo 
and Brasilia. On the Rio de Janeiro event page more than 255,000
people confirmed their attendance. “It was never just about 20
cents,” the event page said.  ’Direct Action’  “We created a culture of mobilization and direct popular
action that can be used for many other issues,” Mayara Vivan, a
23-year-old member of the Free Fare Movement that helped
organize the protests, told reporters in Sao Paulo today. “We
will continue fighting for free transportation, that’s our
banner.”  Authorities in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro yesterday said
they were scrapping bus fare increases even as they struggle
with strained budgets to pay for the cuts. Starting June 24, bus
and subway tickets in Sao Paulo will cost 3 reais ($1.35),
reversing the 20 centavo increase that took effect this month.  In Fortaleza, in the country’s northeast, police yesterday
battled an estimated 25,000 demonstrators who gathered outside
the stadium where the national soccer team was hosting  Mexico  to
protest excessive spending ahead of next year’s FIFA World Cup.
Police fired tear gas and rubber bullets to repel the crowd,
some of whom responded by throwing stones.  ‘The Giant Has Awakened’  Inside the soccer stadium, fans held up signs denouncing
corruption and bearing what’s become the student-led movement’s
rallying cry: “The giant has awakened,” a reference to
Brazil’s national anthem. Soccer legend Pele, in a  video , called
on people to “forget all this confusion that’s happening in
Brazil” and refrain from booing the national squad.  Brazil’s striker Neymar, the star of the 2-0 victory over
Mexico, took another tack. He supported the protests on his
Facebook page, writing “I too want a  Brazil  that’s more just,
more secure, more healthy and more honest.”  The administration of Rousseff, who was jeered at a packed
stadium June 15, was surprised by the protests that reached a
peak June 17 when more than 200,000 people marched in 12 cities,
according to her secretary-general Gilberto Carvalho.  The Ibope poll, which interviewed 3,758 people June 6-7,
before the protests began, and had a margin of error of plus or
minus two percentage points, showed an increase of 10 percentage
points, to 57 percent, of those who disapproved of Rousseff’s
fight against inflation.  Jailed, Tortured  Rousseff, who was jailed and tortured for taking up arms
against Brazil’s 1964-1985 military dictatorship, pledged
earlier this week to listen to the “voices in the street.”  The crisis comes as  emerging markets  are being battered by
investors and Brazil struggles to recover from its second-worst
economic performance in 13 years.  Latin America ’s biggest
economy is forecast to grow 2.49 percent this year after
expanding 0.9 percent in 2012.  The real plunged 1.17 percent against the dollar as of 1:15
p.m. Brasilia time, its fifth consecutive drop. The Ibovespa
stock index fell 0.43 percent as investors abandon emerging
markets on expectations the  Federal Reserve  will begin tapering
an $85 billion per month bond-buying program that has helped
keep  interest rates  down. The index has slid 23 percent this
year.  Some of the protests last night turned violent. The 13-kilometer (8-mile) bridge connecting Rio with sister city
Niteroi was closed during rush hour as riot police tried to
block a violent group working their way to the thoroughfare.
They instead tried to set fire to a bus with the driver inside.  Since the start of protests, several state capitals,
including Cuiaba and  Porto Alegre , have reduced bus fares.  Rio de Janeiro mayor Eduardo Paes said the decision to cut
fares will cost Rio, the host city of the 2016  Olympic Games , as
much as 500 million reais a year. Earlier in the day Sao Paulo
mayor Fernando Haddad said that freezing fares at 3 reais would
cost 2.7 billion reais in annual subsidies by 2016.  A bill working its way through the Senate that would cut
taxes for public transport companies could provide some relief
as well.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edgerton in Miami at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 