-- Brevan Emerging-Markets Fund Said to Cut Risk on Losses
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-06-20T17:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/brevan-emerging-markets-fund-said-to-cut-risk-on-losses.html
Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP’s
$2.7 billion  emerging-markets  hedge fund sold positions and cut
risk by more than half after it lost 11 percent this year amid a
market rout, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Brevan Howard lowered the value at risk, or VaR, for the
Emerging Markets Strategies Master Fund by 50 percent in May and
at least 30 percent more this month after losses climbed to
almost $300 million this year, said the people who asked not to
be identified because the firm is private. VaR, an estimate of
potential trading losses, can be cut by selling investments and
reducing leverage.  “It’s prudent to lower risk when you experience a large
drawdown, because if you want to retain investors they will only
accept a certain level of losses,” said Donald Steinbrugge,
managing partner at hedge-fund consulting firm Agecroft Partners
LLC in Richmond, Virginia. “However, when a hedge-fund manager
sees their risk significantly reduced, it makes it much more
difficult to recover from the drawdown.”  The  Brevan Howard  fund is overseen by Geraldine Sundstrom,
who’s among money managers that have been hurt since May as
 interest rates  have risen, stocks have tumbled and currencies
lost value in emerging markets. Investors are redeeming from
developing nations at the fastest pace in two years amid slowing
economic growth and concerns that when the U.S. Federal Reserve
pulls back from its unprecedented stimulus, South American and
Asian countries will no longer offer relatively low risk in
return for higher-yielding assets.  Brevan’s Returns  Sundstrom’s hedge fund fell about 5 percent this month
through June 14 after declining 3.9 percent in May, bringing her
losses for the year to 11 percent, said one of the people.  Hedge
funds  focused on  emerging markets  had gained 3.6 percent on
average through the first five months of 2013, according to
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Sundstrom, 38, who is based in Geneva, continues to work at
Brevan Howard and the firm has no plans to shut down her fund,
which bets on macroeconomic trends by wagering on moves for
interest rates, currencies, bonds and commodities, said a person
with knowledge of the matter. Sundstrom declined to comment on
her fund, as did Max Hilton, a spokesman for London-based Brevan
Howard at Peregrine Communications.  Clients pulled more than $19 billion from funds investing
in emerging markets in the three weeks through June 12, the most
since 2011, according to EPFR Global, a Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based firm that tracks fund flows. The redemptions
started after Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  told U.S. lawmakers May
22 that the central bank would scale back its asset purchases if
employment continued to show “sustainable improvement.”  Currencies Slide  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Emerging Local Markets ELMI Plus
Composite index, which tracks developing currencies, is down 1.4
percent this quarter, while the  Indian rupee  hit a record low
last week and the Brazilian real fell to its lowest since 2009.  “The era of structural outperformance” for emerging
markets is “probably over,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist
 Dominic Wilson  wrote in a report yesterday. Moves in currencies
and interest rates in the past two months “have previewed what
may lie ahead,” he wrote.  Bernanke expanded on his earlier comments yesterday,
telling reporters in  Washington  that the Fed may this year start
reducing bond purchases from the current $85 billion a month and
end the stimulus completely in 2014. The MSCI Emerging Markets
Index slid 3.3 percent today to 915.94 in  Hong Kong  following
his remarks, the benchmark’s lowest level since July.  Brevan Howard,  Europe ’s second-largest hedge-fund firm
after Man Group Plc with $40.1 billion of assets, cut risk in
the emerging market fund and Sundstrom sold holdings before
Bernanke’s statements yesterday, the people said.  Sundstrom’s Career  Sundstrom’s hedge fund has produced an average annual
return of about 5.8 percent since 2007, when she joined Brevan
Howard from Louis Bacon’s Moore Capital Management LLC. She
worked as an investment analyst at Citigroup Inc. before her
four-year stint at Moore Capital, according to her registration
with the U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority.  Brevan Howard’s Master fund, its biggest with $27.9 billion
of assets, has never posted an annual loss since starting in
April 2003. The firm, co-founded by former  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN)  trader  Alan Howard , is known for its discipline in quickly
and aggressively cutting positions when traders lose money.  The firm historically cut risk and took capital away from
traders whose portfolios fell 4 percent, Bloomberg Markets
Magazine reported in 2009. An 8 percent drawdown triggered a
change in a trader’s mandate and Brevan Howard required those
who lost 12 percent to stop trading entirely, Bloomberg Markets
reported at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  