-- California Boosts Paychecks for Governor, Lawmakers by 5%
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-06-20T02:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/california-boosts-paychecks-for-governor-lawmakers-by-5-.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown  and
lawmakers will get a 5 percent salary increase now that the
state’s budget has a surplus and public employees have been
offered raises, a state panel decided.  The seven-member California Citizens Compensation
Commission voted yesterday to increase Brown’s pay to about
$173,552 and lawmakers’ base  salaries  to about $95,052. The
state treasurer, controller and other elected officers also will
see their pay rise. The panel’s decision doesn’t need further
approval and will take effect in December.  Lawmakers sent Brown, a Democrat, a $96.3 billion general-fund budget June 14 that tempers spending to less than 1 percent
above the current year, even though voters in November approved
a temporary increase in sales and income taxes. It’s the third
time in as many years California will have a budget in place
before the fiscal year begins July 1.  Voters in 1990 passed an initiative that created the
compensation commission. Appointed by the governor, the panel
sets salaries of constitutional officers and members of the
legislature.  The commission in 2009 cut the officials’ pay by 18 percent
after former Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , a Republican, and
the legislature agreed to force state workers to take three
unpaid days off each month, equivalent to a 14 percent wage
reduction. Schwarzenegger didn’t accept pay while in office.  The panel lowered the salaries by another 5 percent last
year. Yesterday’s decision restores that cut, though not the
2009 reduction.  Brown reached a deal with the state’s largest public-employee union that grants workers a 4.5 percent pay increase,
phased in over two years beginning in 2014 if revenue growth
continues. If revenue fails to meet a minimum target, the entire
pay increase would begin later, in 2015. The union must still
ratify the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  