-- Canada April Employment Insurance Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-06-20T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/canada-april-employment-insurance-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s employment insurance report for April released
by  Statistics Canada .  Following a decline in March, the number of people
receiving regular Employment Insurance (EI) benefits in April
was virtually unchanged at 521,600. This follows a steady
downward trend over the previous five months. Compared with a
year earlier, the number of beneficiaries in April was down 4.7%.  British Columbia and  Quebec  saw declines in the number of
people receiving regular EI benefits, while Manitoba,
Saskatchewan and Newfoundland and Labrador posted increases. At
the same time, there was little or no change in the other
provinces.  Highlights on the provinces and metropolitan areas  The number of people receiving regular benefits in British
Columbia declined 2.8% in April, continuing a seven-month
downward trend. Three of the four metropolitan areas in the
province posted declines, with the largest in Abbotsford-Mission
(-6.8%). Abbotsford-Mission also had the largest percentage
decline among all metropolitan areas in the country. Decreases
also occurred in Kelowna (-3.5%) and  Vancouver  (-1.5%). In
Victoria, the number of beneficiaries was unchanged, following a
decline the previous month.  The number of beneficiaries in Quebec fell for the sixth
consecutive month, down 2.0% in April. Four of the six
metropolitan areas in the province posted decreases, ranging
from 1.3% in Saguenay to 5.0% in Trois-Rivières. There was
little change in Montréal and Gatineau.  In Manitoba, the number of people receiving regular
benefits increased 5.5% in April, following a five-month
downward trend. In Winnipeg, the number of beneficiaries was up
4.2%, after a decline the previous month.  The number of regular EI beneficiaries in Saskatchewan
(+4.5%) also increased in April, offsetting a decline the
previous month. Both Regina (+4.3%) and Saskatoon (+2.5%) had
more beneficiaries compared with March.  There were 2.7% more beneficiaries in Newfoundland and
Labrador, following a four-month downward trend. In the
metropolitan area of  St. John’s , the number of beneficiaries was
virtually unchanged, after trending down for eight consecutive
months.  The number of beneficiaries in Ontario has been little
changed over the past nine months. In Toronto, 62,400 people
received benefits in April, unchanged from March.  On a year-over-year basis, most metropolitan areas had
fewer beneficiaries, with the declines ranging from 1.1% in
 Edmonton  to 22.6% in Abbotsford-Mission. At the same time, nine
metropolitan areas posted increases ranging from 1.0% in
Winnipeg to 23.2% in Greater Sudbury. The only metropolitan
areas with little or no change were in Ontario (Toronto, Ottawa,
Barrie and Hamilton) and in Quebec (Gatineau).  Regular Employment Insurance beneficiaries by occupation  Among the 10 major occupation groups, 5 posted declines in
the number of beneficiaries in April compared with the previous
month. The largest decrease came in natural and applied science
occupations (-3.9%), the first decline in nine months. Another
notable decline occurred in occupations in social science,
education, government service and religion (-3.2%) and those
unique to primary industry (-3.2%).  Monthly declines also occurred in health occupations
(-2.4%), continuing a six-month downward trend, as well as in
occupations in art, culture, recreation and sport (-1.5%), where
the number of beneficiaries was down for the second month in a
row. At the same time, the number of beneficiaries increased in
trades, transport and equipment operator occupations (+1.3%),
offsetting a decline the previous month, while there was little
change in the other occupation groups.  On a year-over-year basis, most occupation groups posted
declines ranging from 2.0% in trades, transport and equipment
operators and related occupations, to 13.6% in health
occupations. At the same time, occupations in natural and
applied science (+8.9%) and those in primary industry (+2.9%)
recorded increases.  Employment Insurance beneficiaries in major demographic groups  In April, the number of regular EI beneficiaries fell for
the second consecutive month among women aged 15 to 24 (-1.9%)
and those aged 55 and over (-1.3%). Among women 25 to 54 and men
in all age groups, the number of beneficiaries was little
changed from the previous month.  On a year-over-year basis, the number of people receiving
benefits fell at almost the same rate among people aged 15 to 24
(-6.5%) and those aged 25 to 54 (-6.1%), while it was unchanged
for those 55 and over.  Claims hold steady in April  The number of claims provides an indication of the number
of people who could become beneficiaries.  Following a notable increase in March, the number of
initial and renewal claims was little changed in April at
229,500.  Provincially, claims declined in Ontario (-3.2%), Quebec
(-1.6%) and  Nova Scotia  (-1.3%), while they rose in all the
other provinces, except  New Brunswick , where they were
essentially unchanged.  Claims’ increases in April ranged from 1.6% in Newfoundland
and Labrador to 13.5% in Saskatchewan.  Note to readers  Regular Employment Insurance (EI) benefits are available to
eligible individuals who lose their jobs and who are available
for and able to work, but can’t find a job. To receive EI
benefits, individuals must first submit a claim. The number of
claims provides an indication of the number of people who could
become beneficiaries.  The change in the number of regular EI beneficiaries
reflects various situations, including people becoming
beneficiaries, people going back to work, and people exhausting
their regular benefits.  There is always a certain proportion of unemployed people
who do not qualify for benefits. Some unemployed people have not
contributed to the program because they have not worked in the
past 12 months or their employment is not insured. Other
unemployed people have contributed to the program but do not
meet the eligibility criteria, such as workers who left their
job voluntarily or those who did not accumulate enough hours of
work to receive benefits.  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted. For more
information on seasonal adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and
identifying economic trends
( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc-cel?catno=11-010-X201000311141&amp;lang=eng ) .  EI statistics are produced from administrative data sources
provided by Service  Canada  and Human Resources and Skills
Development Canada. These statistics may, from time to time, be
affected by changes to the Employment Insurance Act or
administrative procedures. Recent examples are the pilot project
entitled “Working While on Claim,” introduced on August 5, 2012,
and the regulation on search for suitable employment, that came
into effect on January 6, 2013.  The number of regular EI beneficiaries and the number of
claims received for the current and previous month are subject
to revision.  The number of beneficiaries is a measure of all people who
received EI benefits from April 14 to 20. This period coincides
with the reference week of the Labour Force Survey (LFS).  EI statistics indicate the number of people who received EI
benefits, and should not be confused with LFS data, which
provide information on the total number of unemployed people. 