-- Canada Household Debt Ratio Falls for Second Time From Record
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-06-20T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/canada-household-debt-ratio-falls-for-second-time-from-record.html
The ratio of Canadian  household debt 
to disposable income fell for a second quarter after reaching a
record last year, suggesting consumers are heeding warnings
about the risks of too much borrowing.  Credit-market debt such as mortgages fell to 161.8 percent
of disposable income, compared with a revised 162.6 percent in
the prior three-month period, Statistics Canada said today in
Ottawa. Mortgage borrowing grew at the slowest pace since the
2009 recession, the agency said.  Canadian policy makers have been trying to stem borrowing
fueled by historically low  interest rates  out of concern the
debt could destabilize the economy. Finance Minister  Jim
Flaherty  and the nation’s banking regulator tightened mortgage
rules last year, while the  Bank of Canada  is the only Group of
Seven central bank warning it may raise interest rates, in part
to dissuade households from taking on too much debt.  In his April monetary policy report, then-Governor  Mark Carney  said household credit has been moderating, in part
because of the central bank’s interest-rate bias, and predicted
the debt-to-income ratio would stabilize this year. The ratio
hit a record 162.8 percent in the third quarter of last year.  The growth in credit market debt slowed to 0.3 percent in
the first quarter from 1 percent at the end of last year,
 Statistics Canada  said today.  National net worth rose 2.1 percent to C$7.10 trillion
($6.86 trillion) in the first quarter, Statistics Canada said,
reflecting higher real estate prices. On a per capita basis, the
increase was to C$202,000 from C$198,400.  The agency said today it had revised the whole data series
dating back to 1990, lowering the debt ratio, after revisions to
national accounts data earlier this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  