-- Canada Dollar Declines Most in 2 Months Amid Fed Tapering Talk
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-06-20T21:21:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/canadian-dollar-declines-most-in-month-on-fed-tapering-timeline.html
The Canadian dollar posted its
biggest loss in more than two months versus its U.S. peer after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said monetary stimulus
that involves printing the U.S. currency could slow this year.  Canada ’s dollar rose against that of commodity-exporting
counterpart  New Zealand  before a report tomorrow forecast to
show  inflation (CACPIYOY)  picked in May. The greenback gained against the
majority of its 16 most-traded peers after Bernanke said
yesterday the central bank will probably taper its $85 billion
in monthly bond buying later in 2013 and halt purchases around
mid-2014 as long as the economy performs in line with Fed
projections.  “There’s just less supply of dollars out there and so less
supply should lead to a higher price for the U.S. dollar,”
David Doyle, a strategist at Macquarie Capital Markets, said by
phone from Toronto. “When you have  U.S. dollar  strength, the
Canadian dollar starts to decline.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is nicknamed for the
image if the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 1.1 percent to
C$1.0387 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, the biggest drop
on a closing basis since April 15. One loonie buys 96.27 U.S.
cents.  Bonds, Oil  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government  bonds  fell, with
yields rising seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to
2.32 percent after touching 2.36 percent, the highest since
October 2011. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023
lost 62 cents to C$92.73.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, tumbled 2.9
percent to $95.40 per barrel in  New York , while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks fell 2.5 percent.  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian dollar
versus its U.S. peer reached the highest in more than year. The
three-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate rose as high
as 1.8000, its highest level since July 2012.  Risk reversals measure the premium on options contracts to
sell Canadian dollars versus buying U.S. contracts that do the
opposite.  “We’d be looking for current-account deficits to
underperform -- and Canada has a current-account deficit,” said
 Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion
Bank, by phone from Toronto. “They’re reliant on foreign
inflows of capital to fund those deficits. And as global
liquidity, even at the margin, becomes less abundant, you have
to find it a little harder to attract that capital.”  Stability, Patience  Canada’s  deficit  was C$14.1 billion (C$13.6 billion) from
January to March,  Statistics Canada  reported, from a revised
C$14.6 billion in the previous quarter.  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart touched 8.3 percent, the
highest point since July 2012. Implied volatility, which traders
quote and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
currency swings.  Inflation in Canada picked up to an annualized 0.9 percent
in May from 0.4 percent the previous month, according to a
Bloomberg survey of 23 economists.  Bank of Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz said yesterday the
nation will need a rebound in business investment to drive
growth in coming years, a process that will require “stability
and patience,” in his first public speech since taking office
June 3.  Loonie ‘Crossfire’  The Bank of Canada is alone in the Group of Seven in
signaling that its next move may be raise interest rates and
economists are anticipating Poloz won’t tighten policy until the
end of next year at the earliest, in part to avoid a
strengthening of the Canadian dollar that could undermine
business confidence and exports.  “This is really a U.S. dollar move, so it would be wrong
to characterize it as a Canada bear market,”  Adam Cole , head of
Group of 10 currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada, said by
phone from  London . “We are still negative, and I do still think
we’ll make new highs for dollar/Canada, and that will be a
Canadian dollar story going forward. But, at the moment, Canada
is really just caught in the crossfire.”  The Canadian dollar erased an earlier gain and is little
changed in the past week against nine developed nation
currencies tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index.
Norway’s krone fell 2.9 percent to lead decliners, while the
U.S. dollar paced gainers with a 2.4 percent rise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  