-- Canada First Quarter National Balance Sheet Account (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-06-20T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/canada-first-quarter-national-balance-sheet-account-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s national balance sheet account report for the
first quarter released by  Statistics Canada .  National net worth increased to $7.1 trillion in the first
quarter, up 2.1% from the fourth quarter of 2012 to reach
$202,000 on a per capita basis. This compares with a 1.1% rise
in the previous quarter and represents the largest increase in
national net worth since the first quarter of 2012. Higher asset
prices, primarily real estate, led the advance, while national
saving accounted for 3% of the increase in national net worth.  The increase in national net worth was comprised of higher
national wealth and lower net foreign indebtedness. Economy-wide
non-financial assets, or national wealth, advanced $75 billion
to reach $7.3 trillion at the end of the first quarter. This
represented an increase of 1.0%, mainly on gains in the value of
residential real estate.  The decrease in  Canada ’s net foreign indebtedness
(international liabilities less international assets) largely
reflected the impact of higher values of Canada’s holdings of
international assets. This was led by strength in foreign stock
markets with the Standard and Poor’s 500 up by 10%. As well, the
Canadian dollar depreciated by 2.1% against its US counterpart,
making US dollar denominated assets more valuable.  Financial markets  Total funds raised by domestic non-financial sectors on
financial markets amounted to $57 billion in the first quarter.
Non-financial corporations accounted for almost all of private
sector demand for funds, as household sector borrowing was down.
The government sector demand for funds increased in the first
quarter, mainly driven by provincial bond issuance.  Total credit market debt ( consumer credit , mortgages, loans,
short-term paper and bonds) of domestic non-financial sectors
totaled $4.1 trillion at the end of the first quarter, up 1.5%
from the previous quarter. Bonds accounted for $1.5 trillion of
the outstanding credit market debt, with government issuances at
about $1 trillion.  Household sector  Household net worth advanced 1.9% in the first quarter, led
by gains in the value of equity holdings (including investment
funds) and pension assets. This reflected strength in domestic
stock markets. The Standard and Poor’s / Toronto Stock Exchange
composite index was up 2.5% in the quarter, compared with a 0.9%
increase in the previous quarter.  The value of household real estate increased by 0.9% in the
first quarter, reflecting strength in real estate values. On a
per capita basis, household net worth rose to $204,800 in the
first quarter, up 1.7% from the previous quarter.  Funds raised by households (consumer credit, loans and
mortgages) were $1.4 billion in the first quarter. Mortgage
borrowing led the demand for funds at $3.8 billion in the
quarter, this marks the slowest pace of mortgage borrowing since
the first quarter of 2009. The increase in mortgage borrowing
was partially offset by decreases in other loans and consumer
credit.  Mortgage debt stood at just below $1.1 trillion and
consumer credit debt reached $496 billion by quarter end. The
growth in credit market debt slowed from 1.0% to 0.3% during the
quarter. Leverage, as measured by household credit market debt
to disposable income, was 161.8% in the first quarter, down from
162.6% in the fourth quarter of 2012. This marks the second
consecutive quarterly decline. Owner’s equity as a percentage of
real estate increased slightly to 69.2%.  Government sector  Total government net debt (expressed at book value) rose
from $915 billion in the fourth quarter of 2012 to $942 billion
in the first quarter. New government borrowing during the
quarter was led by provincial bond issuances. The ratio of total
government net debt to gross domestic product (GDP) continued to
trend upward, increasing to 51.6% at quarter end from 50.3% in
the fourth quarter.  The total government net debt to GDP ratio reached a low in
2008 at 37.2%. Since then, federal and other levels of
government net debt have cumulatively increased by $393 billion,
with federal government net debt accounting for 36% of the
increase and the remainder attributable to other levels of
government.  Corporate sector  The corporate sector remained a net lender to the rest of
the economy, led by financial corporations. The corporate sector
lent $10 billion during the quarter, up from $3.5 billion during
the previous quarter.  Financial assets of financial corporations increased by
$193 billion to reach $9.9 trillion. Of this increase, the
majority reflected appreciation in Canadian and foreign equity
values. The financial assets of investment funds represented 37%
of this increase.  Non-financial corporations accounted for almost all of
private sector demand for funds, primarily through increased
loans. This increase in loans of $19 billion represents the
largest since 2008. On a book value basis, the ratio of debt-to-equity of non-financial corporations increased slightly in the
first quarter, standing at 53 cents of credit market debt for
every dollar of equity.  Note to readers  This release is a combined analysis of the National balance
sheet accounts and Financial flow accounts. The National balance
sheet accounts comprise the balance sheets of all sectors and
sub-sectors of the economy. The main sectors are households,
non-profit institutions serving households, financial
corporations, non-financial corporations, government, and non-residents. They cover all national non-financial assets and
financial asset-liability claims outstanding in all sectors.  The Financial flow accounts (FFA) measure net lending or
borrowing by examining financial transactions in the economy by
sector. The FFA arrive at a measure of net financial investment
which is the difference between transactions in financial assets
and liabilities (for example, net purchases of securities less
net issuance of securities). The FFA also provide the link
between financial and non-financial activity in the economy
which ties estimates of saving and non-financial capital
acquisition (for example, investment in new housing) with the
underlying financial transactions.  Definitions concerning financial indicators can be found in
Financial indicators from the National balance sheet accounts
( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/pub/13-605-x/2012004/article/11730-eng.htm ) .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  