-- Cardenas Hints Colombia May End Currency Measures
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2013-06-20T20:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/cardenas-hints-colombia-may-end-currency-measures.html
Colombian Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  signaled the government may wind down its currency
intervention after the peso weakened to an 18-month low.  “We don’t have a target for the exchange rate,” Cardenas
said in Bogota, adding that the peso was overvalued when at
1,750 to 1,800 per dollar, about 8 percent weaker than today.
“We’re very satisfied to see how the exchange rate has reacted,
so we can say on this issue we already have done our job.”  The currency had its biggest daily drop since 2010 today,
weakening 2.2 percent to 1939.2 per dollar, after the  Federal
Reserve  said yesterday it may start scaling back an asset
purchase program that has kept U.S. yields low and buoyed
emerging market assets.  The central bank’s policy committee, which Cardenas chairs,
voted unanimously on May 31 to extend its program of daily
dollar purchases until September. The government is also
changing the rules governing pension funds to encourage them to
invest more abroad, and also urged state-owned oil company
 Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  to curb its borrowing in foreign currency.  Cardenas will be wary of encouraging the currency to weaken
even further, which would risk stoking inflation, said  Francisco Rodriguez , senior Andean economist at Bank of America Corp., in
 New York .  “On the one hand, he is claiming credit for having brought
the peso to current levels, but he is also opening the door for
winding down intervention if the currency remains in the current
range,” Rodriguez said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“According to his reasoning, the over-valuation has been
corrected and there is no further rationale for intervention.”  ‘Equilibrium Rate’  Cardenas said in a May 23 interview the government needed
to act to weaken the peso to its “equilibrium rate” of 1,950
per dollar.  The currency has fallen 8.9 percent this year, the biggest
drop among major emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
after the South African rand and the Brazilian real.  “Banco de la Republica’s intervention in the local foreign
exchange market as well as the measures adopted by the
government have reinforced the tendency of the peso to
depreciate,” policy makers said in the minutes to their May
policy meeting.  GDP Growth  Gross domestic product in the first quarter expanded 2.8
percent from the year earlier, the national statistics agency
said today in Bogota, lower than the 3 percent growth forecast
by Cardenas. The industrial sector, which according to Cardenas
has suffered from an overvalued peso, contracted 4.1 percent
from a year earlier.  Central bank co-director Adolfo Meisel said April 10 that
foreign currency intervention can help accelerate the
convergence of a currency to its “equilibrium rate” without
altering its long-term trend.  Cardenas “knows that it will be very hard to get the
central bank board to agree to continue to intervene to get the
peso to depreciate further than its equilibrium level,”
Rodriguez said. “In the central bank’s rationale, you intervene
in order to correct an  exchange rate  misalignment but not to try
to alter the long-run value of the exchange rate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  