-- Cerberus Takes On Former World’s Richest Man for Seibu Control
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-06-20T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/cerberus-takes-on-former-world-s-richest-man-for-seibu-control.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP is
battling Seibu Holdings Inc. shareholders including Yoshiaki Tsutsumi, once the world’s richest man, for seats on the
Japanese company’s board. History suggests the  investment
company , run by Stephen A. Feinberg, will fail.  Seibu President Takashi Goto has said he won’t offer “any
concessions” to the New York-based investor even as Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe plans to require companies to have at least
one outside director. The fight for control at the Tokyo-based
train and hotel operator shows the challenge overseas private-equity funds face in  Japan , where attempts by foreign investors
to gain board representation have mostly been beaten back.  Cerberus, Seibu’s largest investor with a 35.5 percent
stake, recommends executives including former U.S. Vice
President Dan Quayle and former U.S. Treasury Secretary John Snow to the board ahead of a June 25 shareholder meeting. The
investment company, which oversees more than $20 billion, aims
to boost Seibu’s profitability before an initial share sale.  “I think Japan is changing but maybe not at the speed some
people want,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , chief executive officer of
Fukoku Capital Management Inc., which manages about $19 billion.
“The aim of holding equity in Japan and in the U.S. is probably
slightly different. To Japanese, the purpose of a company,
whether it’s listed or not, is to provide a service to the
community, even if it’s not making a profit.”  Pickens, Lichtenstein  Cerberus has spent about 120 billion yen ($1.2 billion)
acquiring 35.5 percent of Seibu, which isn’t listed. In
comparison, the fund spent $7.4 billion to buy an 80.1 percent
stake in Chrysler LLC in 2007.  The push by Cerberus, which raised its stake in Seibu last
month, follows failures to gain representation on Japanese
company boards by  T. Boone Pickens  in the 1990s, Christopher Cooper-Hohn’s Children’s Investment Fund Management UK LLP in
2008 and Warren Lichtenstein’s Steel Partners in 2010.  Like those previous investors, Cerberus faces domestic
opposition. Tsutsumi, who amassed a $16 billion personal fortune
while at the helm of Seibu and was named the world’s richest man
by Forbes magazine in 1990, backs the train and hotel company’s
management. He holds 36 percent of second-largest shareholder NW
Corp.  Outside Directors  “It’s going to be difficult for Cerberus to get their
candidates elected,” said Kengo Nishiyama, senior strategist at
Nomura Holdings Inc.  In addition to Quayle, chairman of Cerberus Global
Investments, and Snow, Cerberus has recommended directors
including Hirofumi Gomi, a former commissioner of Japan’s
Financial Services Agency, Yuji Shirakawa, former chairman of
Citigroup Global Markets Japan, and Louis J. Forster, a senior
managing director at Cerberus.  Seibu’s candidates for director will be most profitable for
the company, said Shuhei Akasaka, a spokesman for the company,
the  fourth-largest  hotel operator in Japan by rooms.  Abe wants to add outside directors to companies to increase
independence and aims to double foreign direct investment in
Japan to 35 trillion yen by 2020, according to the government’s
growth strategy.  “I doubt there are enough qualified people to be outside
directors at all listed companies in Japan,” said Sakurai. “I
think it’s a gesture. It couldn’t just be anybody; you have to
be very qualified to become an outside director, maybe more so
than an inside director.”  Corporate Governance  Cerberus published a list of nine topics last week that it
wants to raise at the shareholders meeting, including failures
to meet profit targets, lack of comparisons of results with
other companies in the industry, and lack of disclosure on its
operations in  Hawaii .  Seibu lowered earnings forecasts on March 26, five days
before the end of the fiscal year, cutting its estimate for
operating profit before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization by  3 billion yen  to 78.1 billion yen, from at least
81.3 billion. Two months later, its reported earnings beat that
prediction by  2.1 billion yen .  “We want Seibu to be an exemplar of  corporate
governance ,” Forster told reporters in  Tokyo  this week, citing
the change in forecasts as a cause for concern.  Seibu Bailout  Cerberus in 2006 led a bailout of Seibu, the seventh-largest railway operator in the Tokyo area by ticket sales, with
Nikko Principal Investments Japan Ltd. Seibu was delisted in
2004 for breaking exchange rules by misstating stakes.  The hedge fund announced a tender offer in March to boost
its stake in Seibu to as much as 36.4 percent. Cerberus raised
that target a month later to as much as 44.7 percent, as it
increased the number of people it was recommending for board
seats to eight from three.  The company said it ended up buying 10 million shares, 3.04
percent of the amount outstanding.  About 80 percent of  voting rights  are typically exercised
at annual shareholders meetings of listed companies, Nomura’s
Nishiyama said. Cerberus was probably trying to get more than 40
percent of Seibu’s outstanding shares to secure more than half
of the usual voting rate, he said.  Loeb, Sony  Billionaire  Daniel Loeb  is also trying to force change at a
Japanese company. He’s pushing  Sony Corp. (6758)  to spin off part of
its entertainment unit so it can focus on its struggling
electronics business. Loeb’s Third Point LLC, which owns 6.9
percent of Sony, said in a June 17 letter he was interested in
serving on the board.  One example of success was Steel Partners, which won
shareholder support to install a new board at Aderans Holdings
Co. in 2009, five years after it began investing in the
wigmaker.  The New York-based fund wasn’t able to keep that momentum
as it lost a shareholder vote to oust directors from Japanese
brewer  Sapporo Holdings Ltd. (2501)  in 2010.  Cerberus has said it is willing to wait as long as three
years for an initial public offering of the Japanese rail and
hotel operator, while Seibu has said it is already “financially
prepared.”  “They probably want an IPO to happen when profit is high
enough and the market is high enough to gain a good valuation,”
said Nicholas Benes, a representative director of The Board
Director Training Institute of Japan, which trains executives in
corporate governance. Still, “if trust has broken down, then
it’s going to be difficult to recover that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  