-- China Said to Seek Concessions in Review of MediaTek Deal
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-20T03:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/china-said-to-seek-concessions-in-review-of-mediatek-deal.html
China ’s  competition regulator  is
seeking concessions from  MediaTek Inc. (2454)  and  MStar Semiconductor
Inc. (3697)  before it approves a merger between the Taiwanese makers of
chips used in televisions, two government officials with
knowledge of the matter said.  The Ministry of Commerce is seeking to address concerns
raised by Chinese TV producers that Hsinchu, Taiwan-based
MediaTek will control too large a share of their market once the
deal closes, the officials said, asking not to be identified as
the information is private. The officials didn’t specify what
remedies the ministry is seeking.  Mofcom, as the commerce ministry is known, is the final
hurdle to a $3.8 billion takeover of MStar that will give
MediaTek control of more than half the global market for chips
used in televisions. The deal, announced a year ago, has cleared
regulators in  South Korea  and  Taiwan , with the Korea Fair Trade
Commission approving the deal with conditions including price
cuts in certain product lines.  MediaTek may command as much as 80 percent of the Chinese
market for chips used in TVs once the deal closes, according to
Mark Li, a semiconductor industry analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co.  The Ministry of Commerce didn’t respond to a faxed request
for comment on the merger review. MediaTek Chief Financial
Officer David Ku didn’t return three phone calls. Angela Luan,
an investor relations official at MStar, declined to comment on
the approval process. The companies announced on June 17 that
they expect the deal to close by Nov. 1, postponing the closing
date for a third time.  Shares of MStar currently trade 16 percent below the value
of MediaTek’s stock and cash offer, indicating investors are
doubtful that the deal will close. MediaTek already owns 48
percent of MStar, a stake it acquired last year.  Conditional Clearances  Mofcom has given 18 conditional clearances out of the
almost 500 transactions it had reviewed as of September 2012,
according to Mark Jephcott, a Hong Kong-based partner at Herbert
Smith Freehills LLP. In the case of commodities trader Glencore
Plc’s acquisition of Xstrata Plc, China required Glencore to
divest a  copper mine  in  Peru  as one of its conditions for
approval.  In March 2012, Mofcom cleared Western Digital Corp.’s $4.8
billion acquisition of Hitachi Ltd.’s hard-disk drive unit after
imposing a  condition  that it operates the acquired business as
an independent competitor for a minimum of two years.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Steven Yang in Beijing at 
 kyang74@bloomberg.net ;
Debra Mao in Taipei at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  