-- China Money Rates Retreat After PBOC Said to Inject Cash
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-06-21T02:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/china-money-rate-jumps-to-record-as-pboc-holds-off-on-cash-boost.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rates
retreated from records after the central bank was said to have
made funds available to lenders amid a cash squeeze.  The one-day  repurchase rate  dropped 384 basis points, or
3.84 percentage points, to 7.90 percent as of 9:33 a.m. in
 Shanghai , according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. That is the biggest drop
since 2007. The seven-day  rate  fell 351 basis points to 8.11
percent. They touched record highs yesterday of 13.91 percent
and 12.45 percent, respectively.  “The worst is over; the PBOC is likely to serve as a last
resort and intervene to calm the markets and avoid such huge
volatility,” said Chen Qi, a Shanghai-based strategist at UBS
Securities Co. “Although a reduction in  interest rates  or
reserve ratios is not likely in order to avoid confusing policy
signals, we do think reverse repos are very likely to be resumed
and PBOC will use window guidance as well. We expect liquidity
tightness to persist.”  Interbank lending rates spiked this week as the monetary
authority refrained from using open-market operations to address
a cash crunch in the world’s second-largest economy. The
People’s Bank of China added 50 billion  yuan  ($8.2 billion) to
the financial system through short-term liquidity operations
yesterday, said Hao Hong, chief China strategist at Bank of
Communications Co. in  Hong Kong . A central bank press official
said he was unaware of the matter, requesting anonymity in
keeping with bank policies.  Swap Slides  Maturing notes  added  a net 28 billion yuan to the financial
system this week, down from 92 billion yuan last week. Chinese
banks need to step up efforts to support economic reforms and do
more to contain financial risks, the State Council said June 19
after a meeting led by Premier  Li Keqiang .  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, dropped 19 basis
points to 4.51 percent in Shanghai, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It reached an all-time high of 5.06 percent
yesterday.  The cash injection “is exactly what I would expect,” Wee-Khoon Chong, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Societe Generale SA
said yesterday. “Market stability should always be the top
priority of regulators and central banks.”  Banks paid 6.5 percent for 40 billion yuan of six-month
deposits from the  Finance Ministry  at an auction yesterday, the
highest rate since March 2012 and up from 4.8 percent at the
previous sale on May 23. The yield on top-rated commercial
banks’ six-month debt was 5.87 percent yesterday, the highest
since 2007 and 199 basis points more than at the start of this
month, ChinaBond  data  show.  ‘Punish’ Banks  The People’s Bank of China sold 2 billion yuan of three-month bills yesterday at a yield of 2.91 percent, after a
similar-sized sale at the same rate two days earlier. The
monetary authority has refrained from conducting reverse-repurchase agreements, which inject funds, since February.  Policy makers could be taking advantage of tight funding to
“punish” some small banks, which previously used low interbank
rates to finance purchases of higher-yielding bonds, Bank of
America Merrill economists led by Lu Ting wrote in a report
yesterday. Tight interbank liquidity could last until early
July, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  