-- China Stocks Fall to 6-Month Low on Credit Crunch, Manufacturing
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-06-20T07:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/china-stock-index-futures-fall-on-credit-crunch-bernanke-signal.html
China’s stocks  fell to the lowest
level in six months after benchmark money-market rates climbed
to a record and a private report showed manufacturing shrank at
a faster pace this month.  Ping An Bank Co. and  China  Minsheng Banking Corp. dropped
more than 4 percent as the  repurchase rate , a measure of
interbank funding availability, jumped to the highest level
since at least 2006. Poly Real Estate Group Co. dragged property
developers to the biggest loss among industry groups. Metal and
energy companies slumped on concern about the economy, with
Jiangxi Copper Co. sliding to the lowest level since March 2009
and Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. plunging 7 percent.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost 2.8 percent to 2,084.02
at the close. The CSI 300 Index dropped 3.3 percent to 2,321.47.
The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  fell 3.2 percent. The
Bloomberg China-US Equity Index plunged 2.5 percent yesterday
after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central
bank may reduce bond purchases later this year.  “Stocks can’t take a turn for the better after Bernanke’s
speech yesterday,” said Cao Xuefeng, an analyst at Huaxi
Securities Co. in Chengdu. “The HSBC PMI isn’t helping either,
indicating the economy isn’t showing signs of recovery. There’s
also nervousness about a lack of liquidity in the market.”  The  Shanghai  Composite has slumped 14 percent from this
year’s high on Feb. 6 amid concerns the government may introduce
more property curbs and is considering resuming approvals of
initial public offerings. The index’s trading volumes were 22
percent below the 30-day moving average today, while 30-day
volatility was at 16.9, compared with this year’s low of 13.7
set on June 7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Manufacturing Slowdown  The preliminary reading of 48.3 for a  Purchasing Managers ’
Index released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
compares with the 49.1 median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 15 economists.  Gauges of material and energy stocks in the CSI 300 dropped
3.6 percent and 3.3 percent respectively. Jiangxi Copper, the
biggest producer of the metal, slid 3.9 percent to 17.77  yuan .
Yanzhou Coal plunged 7 percent to 11.62 yuan. Baoshan Iron &
Steel Co., the listed unit of China’s second-biggest steelmaker,
declined 2.6 percent to 4.17 yuan.  The manufacturing report builds on evidence that growth is
slowing for a second quarter after exports, industrial output
and bank lending trailed estimates for May. The weakness, along
with a money-market cash crunch, will further test how far
Premier  Li Keqiang  is willing to go in sacrificing short-term
expansion for more sustainable long-term growth.  Money Rates  The seven-day repurchase rate rose 2.70 percentage
points to 10.77 percent in Shanghai, according to a daily
fixing announced by the National Interbank Funding Center. That
was the highest in data going back to March 2003. The one-day
rate rose by an unprecedented 527 basis points to an all-time
high of 12.85 percent, a separate fixing showed. An intra-day
gauge of the one-day rate touched a record 30 percent.  The credit crunch will hit banks, property and builders,
said  Ben Kwong , chief operating officer at Hong Kong-based KGI
Asia Ltd. Tighter liquidity is “reflecting the government’s
effort to clean up outstanding financial issues. This is the the
intention of the People’s Bank of China to put some pressure on
Chinese banks to clean up their problems,” he said.  PBOC and other regulators could be taking the opportunity
of tight funding to “punish” some small banks which previously
took advantage of stable interbank rates to finance higher-yield
bond purchases, Bank of America Corp. economists led by Ting Lu
wrote in a report, saying the tight liquidity could extend to
early July.  Tight Liquidity  A gauge of financial companies in the CSI 300 including
banks and developers slumped 3.5 percent to the lowest level
since December. China Minsheng Banking declined 4.7 percent to
9.29 yuan, the biggest drop since March 28. Ping An Bank fell
6.2 percent to 11.18 yuan. Poly Real Estate, the second-biggest
developer, slid 3 percent to 10.61 yuan.  Gemdale Corp. (600383)  fell 2.8
percent to 6.54 yuan.  Authorities will boost credit support for industries the
government has defined as strategic and those that are labor-intensive, the State Council, or Cabinet, said in Beijing
yesterday after a meeting led by Premier Li. The nation must
more firmly guard against financial risks, it said.  “These messages reinforce our view that policy and
liquidity will remain tight,” Zhang Zhiwei, economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc., wrote in a note today. “Industries that face
overcapacity problems will likely go through a tough
restructuring in the second half and we expect these industries
to experience corporate defaults.”  -- With assistance from Belinda Cao in  New York . Editors: Allen
Wan, Richard Frost  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  