-- Cole Shares Debut as Shares of Single-Tenant Owners Drop
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-06-20T20:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/cole-shares-debut-as-shares-of-single-tenant-owners-drop.html
Cole Real Estate Investments Inc.,
the owner of more than 1,000 U.S. properties and manager of
nonlisted real estate investment trusts, debuted as a publicly
traded company today as shares of single-tenant property
landlords slumped with climbing  interest rates .  The Phoenix-based company, formerly a nontraded REIT known
as Cole Credit Property Trust III Inc., listed its shares on the
 New York  Stock Exchange after buying the company that sponsored
it. Cole, which owns single-tenant retail, office and industrial
properties, is ready for higher interest rates because most of
its debt is long-term, and annual tenant rent increases will
help counter higher borrowing costs, Chief Executive Officer
Marc Nemer said.  “This is not coming as a surprise to us,” Nemer said
today in a telephone interview. “We’ve been planning for it.”  REIT shares tumbled today to their lowest level since
December on concern that an increase in rates will boost
property-acquisition costs. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday that policy makers may end bond
purchases in 2014 should risks to the  U.S. economy  abate. The
yield on 10-year Treasury  notes  today rose to the highest in
almost two years.  Cole shares, which opened at $11.50, fell to $10.90 at the
close in New York.  REITs are dependent on the  capital markets  to finance
acquisitions and development because they are required to pay
out most of their taxable earnings to shareholders in return for
not paying corporate taxes.  Rent Growth  Cole gets revenue from rent on properties it owns and fees
from the nontraded REITs it manages. The company is buffered
from rising rates by annual rent growth that’s built into its
leases, Nemer said. The company has about 500 tenants at
properties in 48 states. About 70 percent of its real estate is
retail, with the rest office and industrial.  Cole is seeking acquisitions across the country, Nemer
said.  “We’re really a long-term value player,” he said. “We’re
seeing and capitalizing on terrific opportunities out there.”  The Bloomberg REIT Single-Tenant Index dropped 5.5 percent
today, with  National Retail Properties Inc. (NNN)  having the biggest
decline in the index at 7.1 percent. The Bloomberg REIT Index
fell 4.2 percent, the most in 19 months, after a 3 percent
decline yesterday.  Single-tenant and triple-net-lease retail landlords rent to
such tenants as pharmacy chains and restaurants under multiyear
agreements, with tenants paying property expenses. Tenants in
triple-net leases are responsible for paying all of a property’s
costs, minimizing expenses for the owner. Those types of leases
get their name from tenants paying the net amount of three types
of costs: real estate taxes, building insurance and common-area
maintenance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  