-- Colombia GDP Growth Slowed in First Quarter as Industry Shrank
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-06-20T16:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/colombia-gdp-growth-slowed-in-first-quarter-as-industry-shrank.html
Colombia’s economic growth slowed in
the first quarter as industry contracted and coal output slumped
following a strike in the country’s largest mine.  Gross domestic product expanded 2.8 percent from the year
earlier, the national statistics agency said today in Bogota,
lower than the 3 percent growth forecast by the  Finance
Ministry . The median forecast of 29 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for 2.7 percent growth. The economy expanded 0.3
percent from the previous quarter.  President  Juan Manuel Santos  announced in April a 5
trillion peso ($2.6 billion) stimulus package aimed at
“reactivating” the industrial sector and boosting growth by
0.7 percentage point this year. The central bank has also cut
its policy rate by 2 percentage points over the past year to the
lowest in the region, in an attempt to bolster an economy that
has seen growth slow in five of the past six quarters.  Colombia’s first quarter growth compared with 4.8 percent
expansion in  Peru , 4.1 percent in  Chile  and 0.8 percent in
 Mexico .  Annual  inflation  slowed to 2 percent last month, at the
lower end of the central bank’s target range. Two measures of
 core inflation , which aim to track underlying trends by
excluding the most volatile prices, slowed to record lows.  Central bank co-director Juan Pablo Zarate said in a June
13 interview that low inflation and below-potential GDP growth
give the central bank a “large space” for expansionary
monetary policy. Colombia targets inflation of 3 percent, plus
or minus one percentage point.  Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said June 14 that the
economy can grow 4.6 percent a year without overheating, down
from a previous estimate of 4.8 percent.  Banco de la Republica will hold its policy rate at 3.25
percent until the end of the year, then raise it to 3.75 percent
in the first quarter of 2014, according to the most recent
central bank survey of analysts.  Coal output fell 21 percent from a year earlier, after
workers at Cerrejon, the country’s biggest coal mine, went on
strike for more than a month in a pay dispute, Colombia’s
second-biggest coal producer, Drummond Co., had its loading
license suspended after a sinking barge dumped coal into the
sea. Coal is  Colombia ’s biggest export after oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  