-- Commercial Paper Expands for Fifth Time in Six Weeks, Fed Says
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2013-06-20T15:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/commercial-paper-expands-for-fifth-time-in-six-weeks-fed-says.html
The market for corporate borrowing
through  short-term IOUs  expanded for the fifth time in six
weeks, led by an increase in issuance from nonfinancial firms.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
rose $3.4 billion to $1.038 trillion outstanding in the week
ended yesterday, the  Federal Reserve  said today on its website.
That’s the highest level since the market touched $1.048
trillion in the week ended May 29.  “The small rise in non-financial CP outstanding is
attributable to the continued rise in short-term corporate bond
rates,”  Howard Simons , strategist at Bianco Research LLC in
Chicago, wrote in an e-mail. “Firms that had been terming out
their debt are moving into the CP market and assuming the
rollover risk.”  U.S. company bond yields jumped 9 basis points yesterday to
3.92 percent, the highest level since August and up from a
record low of 3.35 percent on May 2, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield Index.  The climb in yields accelerated after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the U.S. central bank
will probably taper its $85 billion in monthly bond buying later
in 2013 and halt purchases around mid-2014 as long as the
world’s largest economy performs in line with Fed projections.
Bernanke spoke with reporters in Washington after a two-day
meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee .  IOUs issued by  nonfinancial  companies rose for an eighth
week, the longest stretch of increases since the period ended
April 6, 2011, rising $2.3 billion to $222.4 billion, the Fed
said.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as rent and
salaries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Parry  in  New York  at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  