-- Contractor for Snowden Background Check Is Investigated
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-06-20T22:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/company-being-probed-did-snowden-background-check-senator-says.html
A federal contractor that conducted
a background check on Edward Snowden, the former national-security worker who leaked secret documents on U.S. surveillance
programs, is under criminal investigation, a lawmaker said.  USIS, a unit of Falls Church, Virginia-based Altegrity
Inc., performed the check in 2011, Senator Claire McCaskill, a
Missouri Democrat, said at a congressional hearing today.  The probe by the federal Office of Personnel Management’s
inspector general is tied to the company’s “systemic failure to
adequately conduct investigations,” McCaskill said.  USIS conducts about 45 percent of the background checks
contracted out by the personnel office. Closely held Altegrity
was awarded $451 million in federal contracts last year.  Snowden, who held a top-secret clearance, is a former
National Security Agency contractor who worked for  Booz Allen
Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH)  His disclosures have drawn attention to
the government’s process of vetting people who handle classified
material.  Passing a background check is a requirement before a
federal employee or contractor can be granted a security
clearance. The personnel office is responsible for most of them,
conducting more than 2 million investigations a year. The
federal government spends more than $1 billion annually on
clearance probes, according to McCaskill.  Snowden Review  Patrick McFarland, inspector general of the Office of
Personnel Management, said he believed there may have been
problems with USIS’s review of Snowden.  While the inspector general’s office is investigating the
company, McFarland declined after the Senate hearing to say
whether it was a criminal probe or whether the investigation was
tied to the Snowden matter.  USIS was responsible for a “re-investigation” of Snowden
that was tied to his clearance renewal, McFarland said. It isn’t
clear who conducted Snowden’s original investigation, which
wasn’t done by the personnel office, according to the inspector
general’s office.  “USIS has never been informed that it is under criminal
investigation,” according to a company statement released after
the hearing.  USIS said it received a subpoena in January 2012 from the
inspector general of the personnel office. It complied with the
subpoena and has “cooperated fully with the government’s civil
investigative efforts,” the company said.  Contractor Probe  USIS has been under investigation since late 2011, said
Michelle Schmitz, assistant inspector general for
investigations.  “A complicated contract fraud case typically takes several
years,” Schmitz said at the hearing of two Senate Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs subcommittees. She declined to
offer details on why the 2011 probe was initiated.  McFarland said he has been alarmed about the lack of
oversight for background investigations. “Our resources remain
woefully inadequate, preventing us from performing the level of
oversight that such an important program requires,” he said.  In one case, a worker fabricated 1,600 credit checks before
it was discovered her own background investigation had been
falsified, according to McFarland’s prepared testimony. The
company wasn’t identified.  Of 3,500 investigative reports the Pentagon used to make
security clearance decisions, 87 percent were missing required
documents, a review by the U.S. Government Accountability Office
found in 2008.  While 18 investigators, including contract and government
employees, have been convicted of falsifying reports since 2006,
McFarland said the inspector general’s office lacks the
resources to clear a backlog of an additional 36 cases.  He said he believes there may be more fraud beyond the 18
cases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  