-- Compass Says Outgoing Diageo CEO Paul Walsh to Become Chairman
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-06-20T06:44:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/compass-says-outgoing-diageo-ceo-paul-walsh-to-become-chairman.html
Compass Group Plc (CPG) , the world’s
biggest catering company, said Paul Walsh, the outgoing chief
executive officer of  Diageo Plc (DGE) , will become chairman next year.  Walsh will become a non-executive director of the company
from Jan. 1, 2014, Compass said today in a statement, and take
up the role of non-executive chairman at the end of the
Chertsey, England-based company’s annual general meeting on Feb.
6. He replaces Roy Gardner, who announced his resignation
earlier this year.  Walsh has led Diageo since 2000, helping build the maker of
Smirnoff vodka and Johnnie Walker whisky into the world’s
biggest distiller. He will step down as CEO on July 1, leave the
board in September, and retire from the London-based drinkmaker
on June 30, 2014, it said in May.  Ian Robinson, a Compass senior independent director,
welcomed Walsh to the board, saying that “his experience
leading one of the U.K.’s largest international companies
through a  period  of significant global expansion makes him an
excellent choice.”  In March, Compass reported first-half revenue growth of 5
percent as it offset declines in Europe and Japan with gains in
North America and  emerging markets . CEO Richard Cousins is
driving profitability by cutting costs and restructuring its
business in southern Europe to offset stagnant economic
conditions driven by government austerity plans.  Walsh said he’s looking forward “to working with Richard
Cousins and my new colleagues on the board, and to making a
significant contribution to the business.”  Walsh is currently also a non-executive director of  FedEx
Corp. (FDX) , Unilever, and  Avanti Communications Group Plc. (AVN)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  