-- Corn, Soy Fall as Wet, Warm Weather Aids U.S. Crops; Wheat Drops
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-06-20T19:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/corn-drops-from-two-month-high-as-demand-to-weaken-for-u-s-crop.html
Corn fell from a 12-week high in
 Chicago  and soybeans declined the most in two months on
speculation that wet, warm weather in the U.S. will accelerate
crop development, boosting yields. Wheat futures declined.  Most of the Midwest and northern Great Plains will have a
timely mix of rain, warmer temperatures and sunshine, boosting
crop development that has been curbed by late planting and cool
temperatures in the past six weeks, World Weather Inc. said in a
report to clients. The  National Weather Service  forecast normal
 weather  for the next three months, and further  improvement  in
drought conditions in the western Midwest and Plains.  “The forecasts are not crop threatening,”  Dan Cekander ,
the director of grain-market analysis for Newedge USA LLC in
Chicago, said in a telephone interview. “The crop potential is
getting bigger and it looks like the U.S. outlook is improving
for rising supplies.”  Corn futures for delivery in December, after the U.S.
harvest, lost 1.8 percent to close at $5.605 a bushel at 1:15
p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade. Yesterday, the contract
jumped 3.6 percent to $5.705, the highest settlement for the
contract since March 27.  Soybean futures for delivery in November fell 2 percent to
$12.85 a bushel on the CBOT, capping the biggest drop for the
contract since April 15.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  projects domestic corn
and soybean output will rise to a record, rebounding from a
drought last year that damaged crops and eroded supplies. The
agency will update its forecast of planted acreage on June 28.  Export Sales  Agriculture markets also fell amid concern that a
strengthening dollar would hurt demand for supplies from the
U.S., the world’s largest grower of corn and soybeans. The
USDA’s weekly export sales report today showed slowing demand
for grains and oilseeds, Cekander said. The Dollar Index, a
measure against six currencies, rose 0.6 percent, extending
yesterday’s 1 percent increase, after the  Federal Reserve  said
it may phase out its stimulus.  Wheat futures for delivery in September slid 0.9 percent to
$7.0775 a bushel in Chicago, the first drop in three sessions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 