-- Costa Rica Halts $1.3 Billion China-Funded Refinery Plan
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-06-21T01:36:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/costa-rica-halts-1-3-billino-china-funded-refinery-plan.html
Costa Rica ’s government halted a
$1.3 billion refinery modernization largely funded by the
Chinese government due to a contractual violation, paralyzing
the Central American country’s biggest investment project.  A feasibility study on the refinery modernization was
conducted by Chinese company HQCEC, which has ties to China
National Petroleum Corp., or CNPC, the comptroller general’s
office said yesterday in a  statement  on its website. The terms
of the contract specified that the study couldn’t be carried out
by a company associated with CNPC, which is partnering with the
Costa Rican state oil company, or Recope, on the project, the
comptroller general’s office said. Calls and e-mails to CNPC
spokesmen in Beijing weren’t immediately returned.  “Due to an investigation, the comptroller general’s office
determined the breach of a clause 5.02, signed by Recope and
CNPCI International Ltd,” according to the statement. “The
company that conducted the feasibility study has a relationship
with the Chinese state oil company, which is prohibited and a
breach of contract.”  The project, in the city of Limon on the Caribbean coast,
was the subject of talks between Chinese President Xi Jinping
and President Laura Chinchilla during a visit by Xi to the
country earlier this month. The modernization was to be
primarily funded by a $900 million loan from China Development
Bank Corp.  Recope President Jorge Villalobos Clare resigned following
the decision, newspaper  La Nacion  reported.  A revised plan for the refinery’s modernization, which
targeted an increase in fuel production to 65,000 barrels per
day from the current rate of 18,000, will be prepared within six
months, Recope said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose , Costa Rica at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  