-- Credit Suisse Asia Private Banking Chairman Kreis to Resign
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-06-20T17:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/credit-suisse-asia-private-banking-chairman-marcel-kreis-resigns.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  said Marcel Kreis, chairman of private banking for the Asia-Pacific region,
will resign in a planned succession that leaves Francesco de
Ferrari in charge of wealth management’s fastest-growing market.  De Ferrari has been effectively managing the operation for
Switzerland’s second-largest wealth manager since he was
appointed head of private banking for Asia at the start of last
year,  Marc Dosch , a spokesman for Zurich-based Credit Suisse,
said by phone today.  De Ferrari joined Credit Suisse in 2002 and was previously
head of private banking for Italy and chief operating officer
for private banking in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Kreis
will depart July 1,  WealthBriefingAsia  reported earlier.  Credit Suisse is targeting emerging-market and super-rich
clients to compensate for subdued client activity and low
interest rates in developed markets and withdrawals from western
European customers prompted by a government-led crackdown on
offshore  tax evasion .  Inflows from the Asia-Pacific region rose almost 10 percent
to 2.6 billion Swiss francs ($2.8 billion) in the  first quarter ,
contributing about one third of new deposits from wealth
management clients, the company reported April 24. Western
European customers withdrew 2.1 billion francs over the quarter.  Asian Wealth  Offshore wealth assets across banks in Hong Kong and
Singapore jumped 20 percent to $1.2 trillion last year as Asian
millionaires chose local financial centers over those in Europe,
according to a May 31 study by  Boston Consulting Group .  Asian wealth outside Japan rose 14 percent to $28 trillion
in 2012 and will surpass  North America  by 2017, according to the
report.  China  will leapfrog Japan to become the world’s second-wealthiest nation by that date and is projected to have more
millionaire households than its Asian neighbor by the end of
December, Boston Consulting said.  Credit Suisse’s Kreis joined the firm in 2007 from UBS AG,
Switzerland’s biggest bank, after a career that also spanned
units of Citigroup Inc. and the Merrill Lynch international
wealth arm purchased last year by  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)   “Marcel navigated one of the most challenging financial
crises of our time, successfully growing our private banking
business and advancing our market share,” Credit Suisse wrote
in an internal memo to employees obtained by  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  