-- Crude Falls Most in Seven Months on China, Fed Outlook
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-06-20T19:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/crude-falls-on-signs-of-china-slowdown-amid-fed-stimulus.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell
the most in seven months on signs  China’s economy  is slowing and
after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central
bank may start curbing bond purchases later this year.  Futures slid 2.9 percent as reports showed that Chinese
manufacturing shrank at a faster pace than the previous month
and the country’s benchmark money-market rate rose to a record.
Bernanke said yesterday that the Fed may begin reducing the
purchases that have fueled gains in global markets and end the
program in 2014, should risks to the economy abate. WTI’s
discount to Brent oil in London shrank to the least since 2011.  “Chinese manufacturing is clearly in a downtrend and the
cash crunch is getting worse,” said  Addison Armstrong , director
of market research at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut.
“The initial cause of the rout was Bernanke’s speech yesterday.
The reaction shows that commodity-market strength has been based
on the idea that central banks would continue to supply
liquidity to the market and little else.”  WTI futures for July delivery, which expired today, dropped
$2.84 to settle at $95.40 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the biggest one-day decline since Nov. 7. The more
actively traded August contract was down $3.34 to $95.14. The
volume of all futures traded was 46 percent above the 100-day
average at 3:04 p.m.  Brent oil for August settlement declined $3.97, or 3.7
percent, to end the session at $102.15 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Volume for all contracts was
11 percent higher than the 100-day average.  The European benchmark grade shrank to a $7.01 premium to
WTI based on August contracts, the narrowest spread using
closing prices since Jan. 20, 2011.  Preliminary Index  The preliminary June  Purchasing Managers ’ Index for  China ,
released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics,
dropped to 48.3 compared with the 49.1 median forecast in a
 Bloomberg (INJCJC)  survey. The reading will be the lowest since September
if confirmed on July 1 in the final reading. May’s gauge of 49.2
was the first below 50 since October, signaling contraction.  China’s seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of interbank
funding availability, rose to the highest since at least 2006.
The central bank has refrained from using reverse-repos to
inject funds into the  interbank market  since Feb. 7.  “Over the last few months, the markets have begun to look
at China with a jaundiced eye,” said  Stephen Schork , president
of the Schork Group Inc., an energy advisory company in
Villanova, Pennsylvania. “The Chinese economic outlook isn’t as
rosy and that has investors worried.”  Fed Stimulus  The  Federal Open Market Committee  left the monthly pace of
bond purchases unchanged at $85 billion, though the central bank
said that “downside risks to the outlook for the economy and
the labor market” have diminished.  The outlook for tapering stimulus sent the dollar surging,
the appeal of commodities denominated in the U.S. currency as an
investment. The dollar rose as much as 1 percent to $1.3161
against the euro, the highest level since June 6. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials fell as much as 3.3
percent.  The  S&P 500 Index  fell 2.5 percent and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  declined 2.3 percent.  “The dollar is up on the Bernanke comments and equities
are down on them,” Schork said. “The prospect that the Fed
will stop force-feeding $85 billion a month to the markets, a
lot of which found its way to commodities, has obviously scared
a lot of people.”  Jobless Claims  The drop in  oil prices  accelerated after more Americans
than forecast filed applications for  unemployment benefits .
 Jobless claims  rose by 18,000 to 354,000 in the week ended June
15, the Labor Department reported today. A 340,000 gain was
expected, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Another report showed the index of U.S. leading indicators
rose less than projected in May. The Conference Board’s gauge of
the outlook for the next three to six months advanced 0.1
percent, the New York-based group said. A 0.2 percent gain was
projected in a Bloomberg survey.  U.S. crude inventories rose  313,000 barrels  to 394.1
million last week, the Energy Information Administration said
yesterday.  Gasoline stockpiles  increased 183,000 barrels to
221.7 million, the highest level since April 12.  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  will meet this weekend
with European and Middle Eastern allies to discuss what weapons
to send Syrian rebels. The June 22 talks in Doha are expected to
include officials from France, the U.K., Italy,  Saudi Arabia ,
Turkey, Qatar, Egypt and Jordan, according to French officials
who spoke on the condition that they not be identified.  Middle East  “We won’t be heading to the mid-$80s anytime soon because
there is enough geopolitical tension in the  Middle East  to keep
a floor under prices,” Armstrong said.  The Middle East accounted for 33 percent of global crude
output in 2012, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of
World Energy. Syrian oil exports, which were never among the
highest in the region, have almost completely ended. Syria
borders Iraq, the second-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
August was 23.8 percent, compared with 18.6 percent yesterday,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 753,516
contracts as of 3:04 p.m. It totaled 673,450 contracts
yesterday, 11 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.85 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  