-- Cyprus to Start LNG Terminal Talks Soon, Energy Minister Says
-- B y   G e o r g i o s   G e o r g i o u
-- 2013-06-20T13:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/cyprus-to-start-lng-terminal-talks-soon-energy-minister-says.html
Cyprus aims to start talks as soon
as possible on a final deal to build an onshore liquefied
natural gas terminal, Energy Minister George Lakkotrypis said.  The government yesterday approved a framework for
negotiating an accord with Houston-based  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  and
Israeli companies Delek Drilling LP and  Avner Oil Exploration
LLP (AVNRL)  to build the terminal. The project will entail the largest
investment in the country’s history, Lakkotrypis said during a
presentation last month.  The memorandum of understanding marks “a very important
milestone, as it completes another step in our efforts to
monetize natural gas reserves,” Lakkotrypis said in an
interview in Nicosia yesterday.  The terminal is part of a plan to export gas to  Europe  and
 Asia  by 2020 to help revive the Cypriot economy after the
country agreed March 25 to a 10 billion-euro ($13.2 billion)
bailout from European partners and the  International Monetary
Fund  that forced it to shut its second-largest bank. The economy
is set to shrink about 13 percent over the next two years, the
IMF said last month.  Cyprus’s natural gas reserves in its territorial waters
could be as much as 60 trillion cubic feet, Charalambos Ellinas,
chairman of the Cyprus Hydrocarbons State Co., said March 15.  Noble has a 70 percent stake in Block 12 of Cyprus’s
offshore exclusive economic zone (EEZ) and in late 2011
announced the discovery of 7 trillion cubic feet of natural gas.
The company earlier this month began a second appraisal drilling
to determine total reserves. Delek and Avner have 15 percent
stakes in Block 12.  Further Expansion  France’s  Total SA (FP)  and Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI) , “who have shown
interest to participate in the terminal, will be more than
welcome,” Lakkotrypis said. “We will make sure that whatever the
final agreement we have in place, we will be able to accommodate
further expansion.”  Total has the right to explore for natural gas in Blocks 10
and 11 of Cyprus’s EEZ, while a venture of Eni and  Korea Gas
Corp (036460)  have stakes of 80 percent and 20 percent respectively in
Blocks 2, 3 and 9. Cyprus has yet to award exploration licenses
for the remaining seven blocks.  “As we get closer to the final  investment decision , we
will be looking for assistance from large financial
institutions,” Lakkotrypis said. “A number have already shown
big interest to finance construction,” he said, without
providing details.  Pre-sales of gas could make up some of the financing for
building the terminal, Lakkotrypis said.  Cyprus’s LNG terminal could also be used by Israel and
Lebanon for exporting natural gas, Ellinas said April 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Georgios Georgiou in Athens at 
 ggeorgiou5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net  