-- Delta Wins U.S. Approval to Buy Virgin Atlantic Stake
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-06-20T14:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/delta-wins-u-s-approval-to-buy-virgin-atlantic-stake.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  won U.S.
 Justice Department  approval of its proposed equity investment in
Richard Branson’s Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. and of the
carriers’ related trans-Atlantic joint venture.  The department’s antitrust division announced today that it
had closed its investigation into the deal, allowing it to
proceed. European regulators have also signed off on the
transaction.  “The facts and circumstances did not warrant further
investigation or action,” the Justice Department said in an e-mailed statement.  Delta, based in Atlanta, agreed on Dec. 11 to buy a
49 percent stake in the U.K. carrier for $360 million to boost
its share of the trans-Atlantic travel market. The agreement
included a joint venture on 31 daily round-trip flights between
 North America  and the U.K. Virgin Group retains a 51 percent
stake.  Delta also won European Union approval for the
transaction, according to an e-mailed statement from EU
regulators today.  “The division and the European Commission cooperated
closely throughout the course of their respective
investigations, with frequent contact between the agencies,”
the Justice Department said. “This cooperation, facilitated by
the parties, made for a more efficient review process.”  Transportation Department  Delta and Virgin Atlantic also have filed an application
with the U.S. Transportation Department seeking antitrust
immunity for their joint venture, according to the Justice
Department statement. The antitrust division said it would
consult, as appropriate, with that agency as it reviews the
immunity request.  “Delta is pleased with today’s decisions by the DOJ and
European Commission approving full merger clearance for the
proposed transaction,”  Anthony Black , a company spokesman, said
in an e-mail.  The U.S. carrier’s 10 daily nonstop flights to the U.K.
would be added to the 21 that Crawley, England-based Virgin
Atlantic plans to operate under its summer 2013 schedule.  While the Virgin Atlantic brand will remain and founder
Branson will retain control, the deal marks the end of a go-it-alone strategy for the airline the 62-year-old U.K. billionaire
established almost three decades ago.  25% Share  Delta’s current share of U.S.-U.K. flying is about
8 percent, and the venture would have 25 percent, Delta Chief
Executive Officer  Richard Anderson  said on a December conference
call. British Airways and  American Airlines , which have an
immunized joint venture, control about 60 percent of the market,
Anderson said.  By linking itself with Virgin, Delta is targeting North
Atlantic flights that generate roughly one-quarter of all global
revenue from first- and business-class fares -- more than twice
as much as second-place trans-Pacific routes, according to the
 International Air Transport Association . 