-- Dixons Sees Improving Signs From Shoppers as Profit Jumps
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-06-20T08:16:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/dixons-profit-rises-as-u-k-gains-offset-southern-europe-losses.html
Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS) , the largest U.K.
electronics retailer, reported a profit gain that beat estimates
as it benefited from the collapse of the rival Comet chain, and
signalled signs of improvement in the consumer economy.  Underlying pretax profit rose 15 percent to 94.5 million
pounds ($146 million) in the year ended April 30, the  Hemel
Hempstead , England-based company said today in a statement. That
exceeded the 88.1 million-pound average estimate of 13 analysts
in a Bloomberg survey and helped the company eliminate its debt.  While the economic backdrop remains tough, Dixons Chief
Executive Officer Sebastian James said he’s seeing the
“faintest glimmer” of improvement, with shopper numbers and
average prices both rising. Dixons has taken about a third of
the business of Comet, which went out of business in November,
and also benefited from growth in demand for tablet computers.  “Dixons continues to gain more than its share of the Comet
business,” said  Philip Dorgan , an analyst at Panmure Gordon &
Co., describing the results as “stonking.”  The shares advanced as much as 3.5 percent in  London  and
were up 1.2 percent at 42.84 pence at 8:54 a.m. That extended
their gain this year to 51 percent.  The owner of the Currys and PC World chains ended the year
with  net cash  of 42.1 million pounds, compared with debt of 104
million pounds 12 months previously. The shift to net cash was
achieved about a year earlier than expected, Dorgan said.  Tablet Sales  Dixons plans to focus on growing sales rather than
acquisitions, James said on a conference call.  “We’re optimistic we can take this wind in our sales and
continue to drive this boat forward,” the CEO said.  Tablets sales surged, with red being a popular color, James
said. Further growth in the category is likely this Christmas as
less than a third of households own one, he said.  Business in southern  Europe  is “very tough,” the CEO
said, with no signs of recovery in  Greece , where Dixons is
market leader. The priority in  Italy  is to “stop the
bleeding,” he said, while the retailer continues to look at all
options for its online unit Pixmania after closing all its
stores, reducing staff and exiting product categories.  Resolving these strategic challenges are the company’s main
focus above paying a dividend or repaying outstanding bonds,
Finance Director Humphrey Singer said on the call.  “It’s an aspiration we absolutely need to be heading
towards,” James said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at +44-20-7073-3262 or
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at +31-20-589-8505 or
 cperri@bloomberg.net  