-- Dollar Index Gains for 3rd Day as Fed Policy Shift Spurs Demand
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-06-21T21:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/dollar-set-for-weekly-advance-versus-majors-on-fed-yen-rallies.html
The  Dollar Index   rose  for a third
day, surging after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  made
the case for reducing stimulus as the economy improves, sparking
declines in emerging-market assets and commodities.  The U.S. currency is poised for its biggest weekly gain
versus the yen in two months before reports next week that
economists said will show U.S. home prices and durable-goods
orders increased. Norway’s krone extended the largest weekly
decline in 4 1/2 years as central bank Governor Oeystein Olsen
said policy makers were aware they would trigger a slump by
lowering their interest-rate outlook while Sweden’s currency
fell against all 16 of its most-traded counterparts.  “It’s basically still dollar strength, post the Federal
Open Market Committee’s meeting,”  Geoffrey Yu , a senior
currency strategist at UBS AG in  London , said in a telephone
interview. “That’s gradually being absorbed. It’s good to see
that it can happen now in a stable manner. Dollar rising with
risk on, I think that’s what we all need to see.”  The dollar rose 0.6 percent to 97.90 yen at 5 p.m. New York
time, a 3.8 percent gain this week. The U.S. currency added 0.7
percent to $1.3122 per euro, reaching the strongest level since
June 6. The yen gained 0.1 percent to 128.45 per euro.  Dollar Measure  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to monitor the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trade partners, increased 0.5 percent to 82.318. It rose 1
percent on June 19 when the  Federal Open Market Committee  left
the monthly pace of bond purchases at $85 billion, saying
“downside risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor
market” have diminished.  Norway’s krone dropped 1 percent to 6.0583 per dollar,
touching the weakest level since July. The currency weakened 3.9
percent yesterday. The Swedish krona slipped 1.5 percent to
6.6712 to the greenback.  The rand strengthened for the first time in six days as a
rally in metal prices boosted  South Africa ’s export prospects.
The currency appreciated 0.8 percent to 10.1623 per dollar,
paring its first weekly decline in three to 2.2 percent.  Options Positions  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $60.2 billion, compared with $51.4 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yuan  exchange rate  was $38.6 billion, the largest
share of trades at 64 percent. Dollar-yen options were the
second most actively traded, at $5.6 billion, or 9 percent.  Dollar-yuan options trading was 1,292 percent more than the
average for the past five Fridays at a similar time in the day.
U.S. dollar-yen options trading was 47 percent less than
average.  The JPMorgan EMBI Global Index of developing-nation dollar
bonds has slipped 4.3 percent this week, poised for the worst
returns since October 2008. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of
24 commodities gained fell 1 percent after dropping 3.1 percent
yesterday. Treasury 10-year yields climbed to the highest level
since August 2011, touching 2.55 percent.  “The key takeaway this week is the fact that we’ve got
bond yields” rising,  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency
strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co ., said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance” with Sara Eisen. “It looks like
they’re essentially here to stay and that’s putting the recovery
of those commodity and emerging currencies very much at risk.”  Economic Data  The U.S. Commerce Department will say on June 25 that
 durable-goods  orders rose 3 percent in May, expanding for a
second month, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. An industry report the same day will show the
 S&P/Case-Shiller (SPCS20Y%)  index of property values gained 10.6 percent in
April from a year earlier, according to another survey.  “For the remainder of the year we think the dollar will
rally, pretty much across the board,” said Alvin Tan, a
director of foreign-exchange strategy at Societe Generale SA in
London. “The Fed is becoming more hawkish relative to other
central banks and the  Bank of Japan  is just starting on its
massive quantitative-easing program. Monetary-policy divergence
will drive the dollar ahead.”  The yen has fallen 2.3 percent this week against the euro,
poised for the biggest slide since the period ended April 5, the
same week the Bank of  Japan  said it will buy more than 7
trillion yen ($71 billion) of bonds every month.  The JPMorgan Global FX Volatility Index was at 11.42
percent after touching 11.51 percent, matching yesterday’s
advance to the highest since June 2012. The average in the past
year is 8.66 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  