-- Drought Expected to Improve in Plains While Persisting in West
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-06-20T16:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/drought-expected-to-improve-in-plains-while-persisting-in-west.html
The nation’s worst drought since the
1930s may improve across parts of the Great Plains from  South
Dakota  to eastern Texas while holding on and spreading
throughout much of the U.S. West.  Arizona may be the only part of the West that will see
improvement from July through September, thanks to expected
heavy rains in the summer monsoon season, said Mark Svoboda,
monitoring program area leader at the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln,  Nebraska .  “We have seen the shift of the epicenter to continue to
push west,” Svoboda said today in a conference call with
reporters. “We have seen a steady push but we still have a
large footprint across the country.”  Drought covered almost two-thirds of the contiguous U.S.
last year and crop insurance payouts by the federal government
reached almost $17.4 billion as of last week.  Currently 44.8 percent of the contiguous U.S. is affected
by some form of drought, according to the U.S.  Drought Monitor 
in Lincoln.  A lack of heavy snowfall in the Rocky Mountains may mean
water supply problems for western states and an increased risk
of wildfires, Svoboda said.  An area from southern Washington through California has an
above-normal wildfire risk, and it’s expected the threat will
grow in Arizona and  New Mexico  in coming months.  Forecasters also expect the West, as well as New England
and parts of New York, will have a greater chance of being
warmer than normal for the next three months, according to the
 U.S. Climate Prediction Center  in College Park, Maryland.  The center released its three-month outlook that shows the
greatest chance for warmer-than-normal conditions from southern
 Wyoming  through  Utah  and  Oklahoma  into western Texas.  The Pacific Northwest and western Texas are expected to
have a high chance of below-normal rainfall, while the Southeast
may get more than usual.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  