-- The Hunt for Monsanto’s Rogue Wheat Wends Across Prairies
-- B y   B i l l   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-06-20T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/the-hunt-for-monsanto-s-rogue-wheat-wends-across-prairies.html
Drive across America’s farm country
-- across the vast plains of  Kansas , across the prairies of
 North Dakota , and then out onto the parched, treeless expanse of
the inland Northwest -- and the waves of grain can seem endless.  About 60 million acres of the U.S. are planted in wheat.
That’s an area larger than  Utah , and it’s the core of an $18
billion industry that’s as old as the nation -- older, in fact.
The settlers at Jamestown cultivated wheat.  George Washington 
was a major wheat grower as were tens of thousands of small-time
19th century dreamers who pushed their way west over the
Appalachian Mountains to plant wheat in the green valleys of
Ohio, Illinois, and later Minnesota.  In the American mind, wheat is linked to decency and hard
work. Just look at the iconic 1938 painting by Thomas Hart
Benton, Cradling Wheat. Here are five farmers coming together in
a tawny field at harvest, scything the grain and bundling it
into tidy sheaves. The farmers’ faces are hidden by their floppy
straw hats; the heave of their backs is musical, in sync with
the heave of the hills rolling behind them. These people are
humble, good.  Even in recent decades, as agriculture has become
agribusiness, wheat has remained far more innocent than its main
rival, corn. Nearly all corn grown in the U.S. today is
genetically modified; no genetically modified wheat has ever
been approved by the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . If wheat
has never been particularly sexy -- the  Jimmy Stewart  of
American commerce -- it’s also never been the subject of dark
intrigue and mystery. Until last month.  Rogue Wheat  On May 29 the USDA’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection
Service (APHIS) announced that a strain of genetically modified
wheat had been discovered in an  Oregon  field. A farmer had been
spraying a weedkiller, Roundup, on a few “volunteer” soft
white wheat plants that had sprouted, weedlike, in a 125-acre
field he was trying to leave fallow. Curiously, the wheat didn’t
die. The farmer sent it to a laboratory at Oregon State
University, and the lab determined it was Roundup Ready wheat.
The USDA later confirmed that it was MON 71800, a strain of
wheat created by Monsanto, the $14 billion agricultural giant
based in St. Louis,  Missouri , From 1998 to 2005, the company had
been authorized to field-test in 16 states, including Oregon.
Monsanto had engineered 71800 to be resistant to glyphosate, the
active ingredient in Roundup, which it also manufactures. It had
conceived the seed as a companion product to the herbicide. But
it discontinued 71800, the company says, to focus on corn,
cotton, and oilseeds.  At Stake  No one could say where the 71800 came from, but it appeared
to have migrated from one of Monsanto’s test plots. But how? And
were there other farm fields pocked by GMO wheat? Had seeds of
71800 taken a ride on a container ship across the Pacific?  At stake is the $8 billion wheat export business, and in
particular U.S. wheat trade with  Asia  -- and the welfare of more
than 160,000 American farms. Soft white wheat is only a fraction
of the total market (about 15 percent), but the incident raised
questions about the integrity and safety of U.S. agricultural
products. In its May 29 press release, the USDA revealed that
the top buyer of American wheat,  Japan , had suspended import
tenders for western white wheat.  South Korea  planned to test all
U.S. wheat and wheat flour upon arrival.  Secret Field  Determining the extent of the rogue crop was clearly an
urgent matter, but also one the USDA and Monsanto decided should
be handled out of the public eye. The government has kept the
location of the field secret, even in discussions with Oregon
State scientists. Monsanto refuses to disclose the locations of
its former 71800 test sites, and the farmer himself has elected
to remain anonymous.  As the story broke, a few clues trickled out. The
contaminated farm field was in eastern Oregon. The 71800 covered
only about 1 percent of the plot, in scattered patches. The USDA
had tested other fields owned by the same farmer and hadn’t
found any more 71800. In the  New York  Times, Michael Firko,
acting deputy administrator in charge of biotechnology at APHIS,
attained a terseness worthy of Elmore Leonard. “We’re all over
this,” Firko said. “We have nine investigators combing the
area.” When I asked Andre Bell, a spokesman for APHIS, to
elaborate, he said: “At this time, all I can say is that they
are gathering evidence and interviewing witnesses.”  “Witnesses?” I had never heard that word used in relation
to wheat. “You mean farmers? Field hands?”  “At this time,” Bell repeated, “all I can say is
‘witnesses.’ ”  People’s Republic  I live in western Oregon -- in the People’s Republic of
 Portland , where Monsanto is a dirty word and where it soon
became impossible to avoid speculation about what was happening
on the other side of the Cascade Mountains. Where, exactly, was
this demon wheat? Why the secrecy? And these investigators --
what were they doing? I called a friend who used to work for the
USDA and asked if he knew where the agents might be. He
answered, “They’re probably driving around in rental cars,
looking at plants.” The investigators were likely in Umatilla
County. Situated on the fertile Columbia River Plateau and
bathed in almost unceasing sunshine, Umatilla is, almost by a
factor of three, Oregon’s principal wheat-growing county.
“There should be some [government] vehicles there, too,” my
friend said, adding helpfully, “Look for blue-and-white license
plates.”  Umatilla County  When I reach Pendleton, the biggest town in Umatilla
County, about 200 miles due east of Portland on I-84, night has
fallen. I climb the hill to the Red Lion Hotel and there, in the
darkened parking lot, I find a forest-green Ford Explorer with a
government plate marked “GG2” -- possibly an abbreviation for
GrainGenes 2.0, a USDA program that provides farmers technical
data on myriad strains of oats, wheat, barley, and rye. Early
the next morning, I buy a couple of doughnuts and stake out the
vehicle. At 9:15 a.m. the driver appears. I follow him as he
leaves the lot.  In the fields and on the airwaves around Pendleton, wheat
farmers worry, as they often do, about money. Theirs is an
inherently risky enterprise with a thin profit margin. An
average wheat farmer in the Pendleton area, according to Bart
Eleveld, an agricultural economist at  Oregon State University ,
tends about 1,000 acres.  Tractor Fuel  He harvests about 60 bushels per acre, at a cost of roughly
$6.60 per bushel. (Tractor fuel is the biggest wallet killer.)
In 2012 a bushel of soft white wheat sold for about $8.10,
leaving a typical farmer with roughly $90,000 to cover private
health insurance, his IRA contributions, and the principal on
his land loan, among other things. If the price of a bushel
fluctuates, that $90,000 can vanish to zero. And given the
global nature of wheat, economic threats can seemingly emerge
out of the blue. Rain in  Australia , for example, is bad news for
American farmers.  Despite the halted shipments to Japan, experts remain
divided as to how much effect the incident will have long term.
Chad Hart, an agricultural economist at  Iowa State University ,
says not that much: “I’d expect a drop of 10¢ to 15¢ a bushel
for a little while as exporters start testing wheat for its
genetic traits. The supply chain’s going to slow down a bit.”  Sustainable Agriculture  Fred Kirschenmann, a distinguished fellow at the Leopold
Center for Sustainable Agriculture at Iowa State, questions the
reassurances from both Monsanto and the USDA that 71800 wheat is
safe for human consumption.  “We don’t know that,” he says. “Years ago, when CFCs
[chlorofluorocarbons] were first released, scientists thought
they were the safest thing in the world. Nobody ever thought
they were going to blow a hole in the ozone. We don’t know what
the long-term health effects of GMO foods will be -- nature and
life are very complicated. And if we find that GMO wheat is
linked to health problems, that could have a profound effect on
markets.”  “Everyone’s quite concerned,” says Mike Thorne, a
Pendleton wheat farmer and a retired state legislator. When the
news broke, “I went to the co-op [a farm supply store] and
everyone was asking, ‘How did it happen? And can the GM wheat be
contained?’ They’re looking for a needle in a haystack -- a few
kernels of GM wheat amid millions and millions of bushels.”  It doesn’t take long to determine that the guy in the Ford
Explorer isn’t looking for a needle; he’s looking for breakfast.
I leave him at Denny’s and drive to Dave’s Chevron, a downtown
Pendleton convenience store and gas station where locals gather
in the morning to share coffee at a few plastic tables.  Bad Karma  Road builder Cliff Greene sees the rogue wheat as bad
karma. “Why did this happen?” he begins. “Because wheat
farmers vote the wrong way. The president says he’s got his
enemies, and we’re it! Those seeds were planted there by the
government!” Later, wheat farmer Tony Kech says, “It’s not
like that GM stuff just blew in from somewhere. It was put there
by some idiot. One of those protesters from Portland was
traveling the freeway, and he just tossed some seed out the
window.”  Kech’s theory isn’t as far-fetched as it might seem.
Portland is such a hotbed of unruly dissent that in the early
nineties staffers for the first President Bush nicknamed the
town “Little Beirut.” Craig Rosebraugh, author of The Logic of
Political Violence and onetime spokesperson for the Earth
Liberation Front, is from Portland; last month about 2,500
protesters gathered in a Portland park to protest genetically
modified agriculture. One woman bore a large American flag
magic-markered to read, “United States of Monsanto, by
Monsanto, for Monsanto.”  Sabotage Theory  And on June 5, Monsanto itself raised the specter of
sabotage. In a conference call with reporters, the company’s
chief technology officer, Robb Fraley, said the 71800 incident
may have resulted from “a purposeful mixing of seeds. We’re
considering all options.”  Could a saboteur have breached Monsanto’s headquarters?
Monsanto publicist Thomas Helscher refuses to speculate, even as
he e-mails to say, “We have a very small number of [71800]
seeds archived in secure storage.” Helscher goes on to describe
the “cool and low humidity” of Monsanto’s seed library, but
the key word of our correspondence is not “archived” but
“isolated.” Three separate times Helscher types this exact,
confusing phrase to describe the Oregon incident: “a random,
isolated occurrence more consistent with the accidental or
purposeful mixing of a small amount of seed during the planting,
harvesting, or during the fallow cycle in an individual field.”  Monsanto Video  Helscher points me to an online video that shows Monsanto’s
Fraley, a bald man casually dressed in a red polo shirt,
relaying a carefully nuanced message from the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration: “The agency has reported that it has no
evidence at this time that the original Roundup Ready CP-4 event
[that is, the 71800 wheat] has entered commerce.”  Fraley’s remarks reflect a willful optimism: On numerous
occasions GMO strains unapproved by the FDA have found their way
onto consumers’ dinner plates. In 2000, Taco Bell incurred a
public-relations nightmare after the infamous “StarLink
incident,” in which genetically modified “StarLink corn,”
patented by Aventis CropScience and approved only for animal
use, commingled with human-grade corn—and showed up in
supermarkets in Taco Bell taco shells. Taco Bell alleged that
its franchisees lost revenue because of “marketplace
confusion.”  Altered Corn  It recalled the shells and later, in a settlement,
collected $60 million from its shell providers (who, per the
terms of the agreement, were not named). In 2001, APHIS fined
Monsanto after the company let an insect-resistant strain of GMO
corn cross-pollinate with other corn, and in 2010, Colorado-based Ventria Bioscience was fined by APHIS for selling a
storage bin in which it had stowed GMO pharmaceutical rice.
“Once you introduce a gene into the environment, it’s likely to
stay there,” says Oregon State weed science professor Carol
Mallory-Smith. “You can’t just retract it.”  By the third morning of my search, the USDA has fortified
its investigative team, adding six gumshoes to the original
nine. (The newcomers’ mission, says spokesman Bell, is “to
investigate how the situation occurred and collect additional
samples from the Oregon farm.") Meanwhile, a farmer in Kansas,
Ernest Barnes, has filed suit against Monsanto. Barnes alleges
that by allowing GMO wheat to spread, Monsanto exercised ‘‘gross
negligence,’’ thereby driving down wheat prices.  Lawsuit Filed  His attorney, Warren Burns, says, ‘‘We’re talking about
potential claims in the hundreds of millions of dollars.’’ At
least two similar suits have emerged, and in  Idaho , a group of
wheat growers is seeking class action status to represent fellow
farmers in Oregon, Washington, and other states. In response,
Monsanto Executive Vice President David Snively derided the rise
of ‘‘tractor-chasing lawyers.’’  At Dave’s Chevron, the circus is in full swing. ‘‘I heard
that genetically modified wheat was in Ontario,’’ says a wheat
grower named Carl Peterson. He means Ontario, Ore., population
11,000, on the Idaho border. ‘‘That’s what I heard, too --
Ontario,’’ says a farmer at a nearby table. A man in an adjacent
booth, Joe McDonald, runs a seed warehouse for Pendleton Grain
Growers, and he’s been in the seed business for 35 years. He,
too, likes Ontario as  ground zero .  ‘‘I’ve never heard of any tests of Roundup Ready wheat
happening around here,” he says, “and if a test like that had
been going on within a 70-mile radius, I’d probably know about
it.”  Dry Area  McDonald adds that Umatilla County doesn’t seem like a good
place to grow and sell Roundup Ready wheat. Because the area is
dry, getting only about 13 inches of rain a year, farmers leave
their fields fallow every other year—and they fallow their
fields by killing off all the plants in them, including the
volunteer wheat plants, with glyphosate. “These farmers don’t
want wheat that stands up to Roundup,” McDonald says. While it
rains only 10 inches a year in Ontario, he adds, farmers there
irrigate -- and almost never fallow -- their fields.  Ontario is 170 miles east of Pendleton on I-84 in Malheur
County, and the roadside is at first empty, almost lunar. Then
long, slender aluminum drip irrigators begin showing up, like
giant silver insects speckling the brown land. After a plan to
appeal to tipsters on Ontario’s sole radio station—KSRV, “The
Bull” -- fails, I once again beat the bushes at the local gas
station, where wheat and vegetable farmer Lou Wettstein sits
with his coffee overlooking the pumps.  Spreading Bentgrass  For about five years, Wettstein says, genetically modified
bentgrass has been spreading, unwanted, near Ontario. Bentgrass
is more inclined to proliferate than wheat, which is also a
grass -- it’s a perennial while wheat is an annual. It escaped
from the Parma (Idaho) test plots of  Scotts Miracle-Gro (SMG) , which
had been working with Monsanto to develop Roundup Ready turf for
golf courses.  “Now the seeds get in the irrigation canals,” says
Wettstein, a retired county commissioner. “They get lodged in
the wind and cross with other grasses, and pretty soon they’re
everywhere, even in farmers’ fields, to some degree. It’s a real
pain in the neck. It’s a heck of a mess.”  Wettstein doesn’t rail against Monsanto, though. Rather, he
speaks of the company with sympathy. “You can’t paint them as
the devil,” he says. “You just can’t because they’ve done so
much good. When they came out with Roundup Ready beets, we
welcomed it around here. You can raise a crop now and never put
a person in the field.”  Deep Throat  In cities, news of the rogue wheat may alarm the anti-GMO
crowd, but in rural America, Wettstein makes clear, Monsanto is
mostly viewed as a life-giving force.  Then the clerk -- “Zane,” according to his name tag --
says I have a phone call on the gas station’s line. Could this
be my Deep Throat? The caller’s voice is husky, muffled. “Did
you read the Capital Press?” he asks, meaning a daily Oregon ag
newspaper. “Get the Capital Press from last Friday.”  I whisper to Zane, requesting the document in question;
impressively, he locates it on a back shelf within seconds. The
caller points me toward an indirect quote on the  front page . The
president of the Oregon Wheat Growers League, Walter Powell,
told the reporter that he thought the 71800 field was in
“northeast Oregon.”  “Why are you blaming us?” the caller says to me. “This
is insulting. Hell, yeah, this is insulting!”  “But isn’t this northeast Oregon here?” I ask.
Geographically speaking, I’m standing in the state’s upper right
quadrant.  “This is eastern Oregon,” the caller hisses. “Get your
facts straight -- that wheat’s near Pendleton.” The line goes
dead.  South Korea  As the days pass, encouraging news comes from South Korea:
In their initial 45 tests of wheat shipments from Oregon, Asian
importers haven’t found a genetically modified grain. Beyond
that, though, there’s little news. More theories arise, and
vague leads swirl about like so much chaff in the breeze. Tom
Winn, an Oregon wheat farmer and chair of the Oregon Wheat
Foundation, says he heard the APHIS inspectors have taken wheat
samples from a field in Heppner, 70 miles southwest of
Pendleton. Winn doesn’t say whether the samples tested positive
for 71800.  Meanwhile, I’m forwarded an e-mail in which Scott Bates, a
spokesman for GMO Free Oregon, speculates that Monsanto probably
tested its 71800 at a research station just outside Pendleton.
“I confirmed my assumption with my uncle, who’s been farming
wheat for 40-plus years,” Bates writes, before adding, “This
is an assumption and should not be reported as fact.”  Wheat League  All the arrows still seem to point toward Umatilla County,
so I seek out Tyson Raymond and Craig Reeder. Raymond and Reeder
are past presidents of the 1,200-member Oregon Wheat League and
grow wheat on farms 17 miles northeast of Pendleton, in tiny
Helix. The two shepherd me into Raymond’s white Ford Super Duty
pickup and, as we bump along winding dirt roads, give me a
primer on fallowing wheat fields. In the old days, when
Raymond’s great-grandfather farmed wheat in Helix, there was
only one way to fallow -- you killed all the weeds by tilling.
In the past 20 years, a new process, “chem-fallow,” emerged.
Farmers are now able to kill all the weeds with glyphosate and a
few other herbicides without ever touching a till.  “It’s amazing,” Reeder says. “No furrows in the soil. No
topsoil washing downhill making ditches that ruin your
combine.”  Federal Investigators  Eventually, we duck out of the sun into the cool refuge of
Raymond’s garage and shop and discuss the farmer who reported
the rogue wheat. “That guy did a courageous thing,” says
Raymond. “He could’ve just plowed it under and gone about his
business. It must’ve been tempting -- name anybody who wants
nine federal investigators showing up in his backyard.”  “Being Erin Brockovich was glamorous after the fact,”
Reeder echoes, “but it probably wasn’t easy along the way.”  “If he didn’t report it, there could have been 10 farmers
hit next year, then 100 the year after that,” Raymond says.
“He helped everyone out -- and we got him a lawyer.”  By “we,” Raymond means the Oregon Wheat Growers League.
By now I’m thinking again of that painting by Thomas Hart Benton
and of the shared joy and open-hearted cooperation that thrums
between its five farmers. Oregon’s wheat farmers all but
certainly want to protect their whistle-blower. “I’m
guessing,” I ask, “that you guys know who this farmer is, but
you’re just not telling me, right?”  Reeder and Raymond confer via their eyebrows for a second.
“How do they do this at the White House?” Reeder deadpans.
“Don’t they say ‘no comment’?”  “I think it’s just a dead stare,” says Raymond. He glares
at me stony-eyed and then laughs. “Look,” he says, “I’ve had
two different wheat farmers tell me it was someone who lived
right near them—and these guys live 80 miles apart from each
other...It’s not like there’s a brotherhood of wheat farmers,
and we all know. Almost nobody knows. It’s very secret.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bradford Wieners at 
 bwieners@bloomberg.net  