-- Health Law Rule Saves Consumers $3.9 Billion in Premiums
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-06-20T19:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/health-law-rule-saves-consumers-3-9-billion-in-premiums.html
Consumers avoided $3.9 billion in
health insurance premium increases in 2012 partly because of 
the U.S. Affordable Care Act’s limits on what  UnitedHealth 
Group Inc. (UNH) ,  Aetna Inc. (AET)  and other coverage plans can charge, 
the government said.  About $500 million in excess premiums will be rebated to
8.5 million people this year, while the rest of money is
reflected as “upfront value” in the plans, the Health and
Human Services Department said today in a  statement . Last year’s
savings are more than triple the $1.1 billion from 2011.  The 2010 health law, an attempt by President  Barack Obama 
to make medical coverage more widely available and affordable,
 forbids  most insurance plans from keeping more than 20 percent
of premiums charged for profit and overhead. A report earlier
this week showed that other provisions in the law penalizing
hospitals for excessive readmissions and encouraging employers
to offer wellness programs are slowing the growth of medical
costs for insurers, which may explain the latest reimbursements.  “The health-care law is providing consumers value for
their premium dollars and ensuring the money they pay every
month to insurance companies goes toward patient care,” the
U.S. health secretary,  Kathleen Sebelius , said in the statement.  Exceeding the 20 percent threshold requires companies to
reimburse customers through rebates or reductions in future
premiums. The  insurance industry  has said that the Obama
administration’s focus on premiums masks the true cause of
health cost inflation: prices charged by hospitals and doctors.  Intended Effect  The rule, which governs a metric known as the medical loss
ratio, “does nothing to address the main drivers of health-care
costs and puts an arbitrary cap on what health plans spend on a
variety of programs and services that improve the quality and
safety of patient care,” Clare Krusing, a spokeswoman for
America’s Health Insurance Plans, the industry’s Washington-based lobbying group, said in an e-mail.  Matt Stearns, a spokesman for Minnetonka, Minnesota-based
UnitedHealth, the largest publicly traded health insurer in the
U.S., declined to comment in an e-mail.  The government can’t say just how much of the $3.9 billion
can be attributed directly to the medical-loss requirement, said
Gary Cohen, the director of the U.S. Center for Consumer
Information and Insurance Oversight, which regulates health
plans.  “I don’t think that we are claiming that the $3.9 billion
in savings is entirely due to the 80/20 rule,” he told
reporters on a conference call. “There are other aspects of the
Affordable Care Act that are contributing to this, and there are
other market forces that may be contributing to this.”  He cited a new review process for insurers’ premiums that
discourages increases greater than 10 percent as one example.  “The law is having its intended effect of making insurers
more efficient,” Cohen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  