-- Hebei Says Iron Ore to Rally on Chinese Steel Output
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-06-20T20:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/hebei-says-iron-ore-to-rally-on-chinese-steel-output.html
Iron-ore  prices have bottomed and
will recover toward the end of this year as Chinese steelmakers
increase output, according to  Hebei Iron & Steel Co. (000709) , the
country’s largest producer of the metal by volume.  Benchmark China-bound iron ore prices will climb as high as
$140 a metric ton in the second half, said Tian Zejun, president
of Hebei’s international trading unit. Iron ore for delivery in
the Chinese port of Tianjin has dropped 24 percent to $120.60
since reaching a 2013 peak in February,  data  from The Steel
Index show.  “By the end of this year iron ore should be quite
stabilized,” Tian said in an interview through an interpreter
in  Vancouver  today. “After that, it should move to a higher
price because Chinese steel production will continue to
expand.”  Prices have gained in recent weeks as buyers sought to
replenish inventories, said Tian, who oversees annual iron ore
purchases of about 50 million metric tons for the Shijiazhuang,
Hebei province-based steelmaker. Still, any rally this year will
be moderate because of ample supplies and limited increases in
steel prices, he said.  “From the supply side of iron ore, we can see there will
be no shortages,” he said. “Iron-ore prices are not going to
go crazy high.”  Tian was in Vancouver for the annual shareholder meeting of
 Alderon Iron Ore Corp. (ADV) , a Canadian mine development company in
which Hebei owns a 20 percent stake.  Hebei made 71.1 million tons of steel in 2011, the most
after Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest
producer, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  