-- Ebix’s Raina Loses Magic Touch as U.S. Probes Accounting
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2013-06-21T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/ebix-s-raina-loses-magic-touch-as-u-s-probes-accounting.html
Robin Raina always had the magic
touch, or so it seemed until Wednesday, when the disclosure of a
U.S. criminal probe of his software company’s accounting
practices blew up a proposed $820 million deal with Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. to take the firm private.  Prior to that disclosure by  Ebix Inc. (EBIX) , which sent its stock
down 44 percent, Raina looked like he could do no wrong. He
saved a dying company at age 32, re-booted it as an e-commerce
site for the insurance industry, and propelled it through a
decade of rapid growth. He established the firm as a fixture on
the annual lists of fastest-growing tech stocks tracked by
Fortune magazine and Forbes.  Raina transformed himself along the way. Born to a well-to-do family in northern India, he amassed a paper fortune of about
$100 million and settled into a life of American opulence in a
six-bedroom mansion in suburban Atlanta. He created a
multimillion-dollar charity to build homes for slum dwellers in
India, and to help polish his image, financed two documentary
films about his philanthropic pursuits.  Yet the public attention he so carefully courted eventually
became a liability for Ebix, which had $199 million in revenue
last year. Besieged by short-sellers and hounded by regulatory
probes and lawsuits -- including one filed last month by
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  -- Raina announced plans to take Ebix private
this summer in an $820 million leveraged buyout funded by
Goldman Sachs.  Intensify Scrutiny  But now short-sellers may be the least of his problems, as
more details about Ebix’s accounting are revealed in court
filings, and the Securities and Exchange Commission and Justice
Department intensify their scrutiny of the Atlanta-based firm.  The $20-per-share Goldman deal, had it gone through, would
have yielded a $40 million windfall for Raina and left him with
a 29 percent stake in the new company. The buyout would also
have given him the last laugh in an increasingly nasty war with
his critics, punishing short-sellers who were betting that Ebix
shares were worth less than $10, and allowing him to use Goldman
Sachs’s reputation as the ultimate endorsement of Ebix’s
earnings.  The proposed LBO, announced May 1, provided for a 45-day
“go-shop” period, during which any other prospective buyer
would be allowed to beat New York-based Goldman Sachs’s offer.  Rather than other suitors, however, the only significant
party to make inquiries during that period was the U.S. Attorney
in Atlanta, who sent a letter to the company on June 14
informing Raina “that it had opened an investigation into
allegations of intentional misconduct,’ according to a company
statement, which linked the probe to accounting fraud claims.  ‘Naturally Disappointed’  “We want to thank Goldman Sachs for their interest in
acquiring Ebix and we are naturally disappointed that we could
not complete a transaction at this time,” Raina said in the
statement. “The company’s balance sheet remains strong and we
believe the company is well positioned for future growth.”  Goldman Sachs said that it was “unable to move forward”
with the deal because of “this recent development.” The
Atlanta U.S. Attorney’s office declined comment.  In 2011, after a 10-year stretch of impressive growth,
skepticism about Ebix’s earnings emerged in the form of an
anonymous blog posting on Seeking Alpha, suggesting that the
company was a “house of cards.”  The posting sparked a one-day selloff, leading to a 24
percent decline in Ebix’s share price, and knocking the
company’s market cap from $1.2 billion to $878 million. The
company denied the allegations.  In the ensuing months, Ebix was sued by a former executive,
who claimed that accounting irregularities had cost him and two
former colleagues a $1.5 million bonus, and by a class-action
law firm, which used the Internet allegations as the basis for a
shareholder suit claiming fraud on the part of Raina and his
team. Ebix rejected the claims, seeking to have them dismissed.  SEC Probe  Even as the company kept posting increases in revenues and
earnings -- driven in part by a series of acquisitions -- Ebix
failed in its attempts last year to get the lawsuits dismissed
and the SEC began a probe of the company’s accounting practices.  The pressure mounted in February of this year when another
short seller, Daniel Yu of Gotham City Research, published his
own attack on Ebix’s financial statements, also on Seeking
Alpha. In response, Raina held a conference call with an analyst
in which he tried to refute some of the Gotham City claims,
while avoiding any discussion of the SEC investigation.  A tennis buff and obsessive ping-pong player, Raina served
up the Goldman Sachs buyout plan artfully, announcing the $20-per-share offer a week before disclosing to investors that his
company was already being probed by the SEC and the Internal
Revenue Service, facts that might have sent his company’s share
price south had it not been for the Goldman Sachs deal. The IRS
probe relates to Ebix’s use of off-shore subsidiaries in low-tax
countries, two people familiar with the matter said last month.
Ebix has said that it’s cooperating with the IRS, and that it’s
regularly reviewed and audited by domestic and foreign tax
authorities.  More Details  Now, as the company tries to find an alternative buyer,
according to its statement, Raina will probably face more
questions about his company’s accounting and compliance
practices. New details may emerge in court filings as he
prepares to be questioned in two lawsuits that are headed to
trial.  Ebix plunged $8.72 to $11.00 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading.  The SEC probe comes while the commission has begun to focus
on the type of gray areas that have been essential to Ebix’s
success, namely the company’s use of an accounting policy that
allows it to report relatively high book earnings while
minimizing taxable income.  Under Raina’s leadership, no regulatory allegations have
been filed against the company, and none of Ebix’s four auditors
during the past decade has issued anything other than a clean
opinion of its financials.  Questions Abound  Still, questions abound about the quality of Ebix’s
earnings, according to accounting experts such as Joseph Carcello, co-founder of the Corporate Governance Center at the
University of  Tennessee .  Carcello pointed to the company’s use of four auditors over
the past decade, along with Ebix’s reliance on earnings from
foreign subsidiaries, which haven’t been audited by its current
firm, Cherry Bekaert, according to securities filings.  “You have multiple auditor changes, the heavy percentage
of operations overseas, the lack of filings overseas,” said
Carcello in a phone interview, prior to the termination of the
Goldman Sachs deal. “You start putting it all together and,
although we don’t have evidence of anything fraudulent, what we
do have is a lot of questions.”  Marc Cohodes, a short-seller who helped expose accounting
frauds at Lernout & Hauspie, Aremisoft and Computer Associates,
questioned the quality of Ebix’s earnings and the motivations
behind the deal.  “In my experience uncovering and dealing with some of the
great software frauds in the past, Ebix could rise to that
level,” Cohodes said.  Cohodes said he’d “never seen a company being investigated
or sued on so many fronts” while it was a takeover target.  Sales Skills  From an early age, Raina’s sales skills set him apart from
his peers. After graduating with an industrial engineering
degree from Thapar University in Punjab in 1990, he joined a
company that distributed Dell Inc. computer products in  India .
First in Mumbai, then in New Delhi, he became one of the
company’s top salesmen.  His next stops were Singapore and the U.S. There he was
recruited in 1997 to help turn around Delphi Information
Systems, an also-ran in the business-to-business software
industry. Delphi’s sales had dropped from $53 million to $28
million over the previous two years.  As head of sales and marketing, Raina immersed himself in
other parts of the company.  ’Very Aggressive’  “Robin was very aggressive, open to change and open to new
business models,” said Bill Baumel, a board member at the time.
”He was ready to be unleashed.”  By 1999, Raina was pushing an entirely new platform for
Delphi, a Web portal called Ebix. In September of that year, the
board named Raina, who had just turned 32, chief executive
officer of the publicly traded company.  Raina initially drew on the expertise of a board of
directors who had deep experience in management, insurance and
technology. Even as he learned from the directors, many of whom
were older, he clashed with them on a few issues, including
compensation, several of them said.  ”There were a lot of battles,” recalled Dennis Drislane,
who was recruited to the Ebix board in 2000. ”He makes a
decision and acts. The old board wanted to see a five-year plan,
or a one-year plan. That was not Robin.”  When Raina talked about acquisitions, board member Doug
Chisholm would press him to project growth from acquisitions and
existing business in any given year. Raina balked.  ’Very Astute’  ”He had it all in his mind,” said Chisholm, who had come
to Ebix from Hewlett Packard Co. ”Robin was very astute at
assessing distressed properties and assets, and making an offer
to people who wanted out.”  As early as 2002, after the turnaround had taken hold but
before the company was flush with cash, Raina pushed the idea of
outsourcing the company’s software production to India. Several
directors wanted to wait until the company’s finances were
stronger.  Raina dug in on the India initiative and set up shop
outside of New Delhi. To showcase Ebix’s new offices, Raina flew
several directors to India for a meeting.  Drislane said his only issue with the subsidiary was a lack
of transparency.  “That’s where things got a little murky,” he recalled.
”There was a lot of stuff in India that we didn’t have
visibility on.” Still, he regarded the India project as a
success, he said. Jonathan Keehner, a spokesman for Ebix,
declined to comment in a written statement.  Net Income  Through internal growth and acquisitions, Raina transformed
Ebix from a loss of $11 million on sales of $12 million in 2000
to $4.3 million in net income on sales of $24 million in 2005.  He strengthened profit margins by running a lean operation,
keeping a tight grip on expenses and cutting staff at acquired
companies. He also took newly acquired software assets and
combined them with operations in India and  Singapore , where Ebix
benefits from low tax rates  ”Robin was ahead of the curve,” Drislane said of the
outsourcing initiative. ”He cut costs and increased
productivity, and he did it on his own. There were no
consultants, no partners. He can be arrogant and difficult to
deal with, but he is smart.”  By 2006, Raina had replaced his old board with a new set of
directors, four of whom are based in Europe.  ”There were a lot of battles, and that was one reason he
wanted a new board,” Drislane said. When Chisholm’s term
expired in 2004, he recalled, it was clear Raina didn’t want him
to stand for re-election. Baumel, Raina’s biggest champion, said
he stepped down because of the time and travel required of an
Ebix director. Ebix spokesman Keehner declined to comment.  Foreign Subsidiaries  Along with the foreign representation on the board came
the addition of subsidiaries around the world, not just in
countries where Ebix did business. They included Sweden and
Mauritius, where holding companies were registered to serve as
nodes in the company’s complex web of financial transactions.  Even as Ebix’s accounting issues have grown more complex,
the company has migrated toward smaller, less expensive auditing
firms in the U.S. KPMG LLP, which had been Delphi’s auditor,
reported potential shortcomings in Ebix’s internal controls in
2003.  In 2004, as part of a cost-cutting move, Ebix replaced the
Big Four accounting firm with BDO LLP. BDO also identified
deficiencies ”relating to the company’s internal control over
financial reporting,” according to a securities filing.  ’Inadequate Documentation’  The deficiencies related ”to the lack of accounting
knowledge and leadership in foreign locations, inadequate
documentation for certain accounting transactions, insufficient
analysis and review of domestic account reconciliations, lack of
documentation of development costs and related agreements, and
the lack of documentation to support the company’s income tax
provisions and related accounts,” according to a 2005
securities filing.  Not a problem, Raina said. He and his chief financial
officer at the time, Richard Baum, reviewed the matter and
concluded that ”the company’s internal control over financial
reporting is effective,” according to the filing.  The willingness of the board’ audit committee to allow
Raina to ratify the company’s internal controls is alarming,
said Lynn Turner, former chief accountant of the SEC.  ”This is not an accident waiting to happen -- it’s an
accident in motion,” Turner said.  In April 2007, Ebix replaced BDO with an Atlanta-based
accounting firm, Habif, Arogeti & Wynne.  Acquisition Spurt  During the next 20 months, Raina spent more than $90
million to acquire five companies, including an Australian
software provider, lifting Ebix’s revenue to $75 million. After
this buying spree, Habif, Arogeti & Wynne resigned as auditor in
December 2008. The firm declined to immediately comment.  The timing of the resignation seems unusual, according to
Carcello, since it occurred before the audit engagement was
completed, and ”in the teeth of the worst recession in many
years.”  The new auditor, Cherry Bekaert, signed off on Ebix’s
financial statements for 2008.  In 2009 the buying spree continued, as Raina spent $62.5
million on acquisitions, and Ebix’s revenue grew to $97.7
million. Even as Ebix increased in size, Raina maintained tight
control over accounting-related decisions, several former Ebix
executives said.  Unusual Structure  Each month, Raina would meet with controller Sean Donaghy
and Darren Joseph, corporate vice president of finance and human
resources, to go over the company’s revenue and determine how it
should be allocated, said two former executives, who asked not
to be named. Absent from this group was Robert Kerris, the
company’s chief financial offer, who relied on the trio’s
decisions when compiling the company’s financial disclosures,
said the former executives, who requested anonymity because the
matter wasn’t public.  The structure is unusual, said Carcello.  ”Whenever you see a company where the CEO takes an active,
ongoing interest in how transactions are accounted for, that’s a
huge red flag,” he said. “Chief executives need to run the
business, they don’t need to run the accounting.”  Ebix spokesman Keehner didn’t directly address Raina’s role
in reviewing the company’s revenue allocation. He said in his
statement that “The CFO is an integral part of this process,
and the primary contact with Cherry Bekaert.”  “The members of the audit committee reviewed, and the
chairman of the committee discussed with management and Cherry
Bekaert LLP” financial information “contained in each
quarterly and annual earnings release prior to the release of
such information to the public,” Keehner said.  More Revenues  As Ebix began to allocate more revenue to offshore
subsidiaries, Cherry Bekaert had to rely more on the company’s
foreign financial statements.  Several overseas subsidiaries have fallen behind in filing
audited numbers. Ebix Singapore, which accounted for $25.2
million of Ebix’s $78 million in pretax income last year,
according to SEC filings, still hasn’t filed locally audited
figures for 2011 or 2012.  Ebix India, which recorded $35.7 million of the company’s
pretax income last year, hasn’t filed audited figures for 2012.
EIH Holdings, the company’s Swedish subsidiary, is being
liquidated by Swedish regulators for lack of timely filings.
Yet, according to SEC filings approved by Cherry Bekaert, the
Swedish unit earned $7 million of the company’s $78 million in
pre-tax income last year.  As for Ebix Asia Holdings Ltd., the company’s subsidiary in
Mauritius, an island nation in Indian Ocean, the only filing
available online is a registration. No earnings or revenues have
been attributed to the unit since its inception in 2008.  Even if Ebix finds an alternative buyer, some accounting
issues will remain. As part of a lawsuit filed by a former
executive in 2011, and scheduled to go to trial next year,
allegations of accounting irregularities at the company have
been made in court papers.  The complaint was filed in an Ohio federal court by the
founder of Peak Performance Solutions, which Ebix acquired in
2009. Peak’s founder, Steven Isaac, and two partners say that
Ebix owes them a $1.5 million ”earnout” as part of the sale.  Different Calculations  Filings in the lawsuit allege that the company’s controller
and CFO provided different calculations of Peak’s revenues in
the year after the acquisition. Peak’s founders also reported
that an Ebix check sent to them bounced. Raina, in a 2011
interview, blamed the bounced checks on a mistake at Bank of
America Corp.  In a court filing earlier this month, Peak’s lawyers
disclosed that Cherry Bekaert had notified Ebix in March 2010
that ”it had found significant deficiencies in internal
controls and the company’s accounting operations,” including
errors in preliminary financial statements, schedules and
disclosures, insufficient analysis and lack of documentation to
support revenue recognition.  Ebix spokesman Keehner said the accounting firm had
notified the company’s audit committee of its findings. He
declined further comment on the matter.  Two Subpoenas  SEC investigators, who have issued two subpoenas to Ebix,
according to the company’s latest quarterly statement, have also
expressed interest in payouts that have been promised if
acquired firms reach revenue targets, according to a person who
has discussed the issue with the agency.  Investigators are examining the possibility that Raina’s
preference for embedding an earnout in the acquisition price
could create a ”cookie jar” that the company can later to use
to boost income, according to the person, who requested
anonymity because the matter is confidential.  For example, when Ebix announced the Peak acquisition in
2009, it set aside $8 million for the purchase, which consisted
of a $6.5 million cash payment, and an accrual of $1.5 million
from Ebix’s cash reserves to be paid out when Peak hit its
revenue targets over a 12-month period.  Microsoft Lawsuit  In 2011, after concluding that Peak failed to achieve those
targets -- a determination being contested by Peak in its
lawsuit -- Ebix management reversed the $1.5 million accrual,
which flowed directly to its bottom line. It didn’t adjust the
goodwill associated with the original purchase downward. Thus,
Ebix was able to convert $1.5 million from its cash reserve in
2009 into $1.5 million in net income for 2010.  The due diligence team at Goldman Sachs had an opportunity
to review the claims made in the Peak lawsuit, as well as in a
class-action suit filed two years ago. The Microsoft suit,
however, was filed after the announcement of the LBO.  Microsoft claimed Ebix breached its licensing contract and
ignored the company’s demand for an audit to determine the
extent of overuse, according to the complaint. Ebix said it was
using unlicensed copies of the company’s software products while
putting off Microsoft’s attempt to conduct an independent audit,
according to the filing. Keehner declined to comment on the
suit.  Charity Work  Raina is eager to talk about his work in India and seems to
revel in the publicity. Through his charity, the Robin Raina
Foundation, he has financed the construction of more than 1,700
homes for slum dwellers in New Delhi.  In various Indian television interviews, which Raina has
posted to YouTube Inc.’s website, he is referred to as
”Santa,” the ”kindest millionaire,” ”an angel for poor
people” and an ”example of patriotism.”  Two years ago, in response to questions about Ebix’s
accounting practices, Raina passed along an e-mail account of a
tour through New Delhi’s slums with the family of one of his
shareholders.  ”Robin was treated like a God,” wrote Kathryn Lebovitz,
whose father, Steven Lebovitz of G&L Realty, owned Ebix stock.
”A group of at least 100 people followed us around chanting his
name and waving and smiling at all of us.”  In 2009, the foundation produced a documentary celebrating
Raina’s work with the underprivileged, called ”Mere Apney,” or
”My own people.”  ’Dilli’  Two years later, the foundation financed another
documentary, “Dilli,” which celebrated Raina’s work with the
underprivileged. It was shot and directed by Black Ticket Films.  At Ebix, Raina is less involved in day-to-day operations
than he was a decade ago, as evidenced by his focus on the
’Dilli’ documentary. Raina’s primary areas of interest are
identifying acquisition targets and cutting costs, according to
people who have worked for him.  Rolf Herter, an Ebix director, said in a statement provided
by Keehner that “Robin remains as committed to Ebix today as
when he joined the company.”  Last year, after former Delphi board member Larry Gerdes
sold his own Atlanta-based company, he received a call from
Raina. In the course of congratulating Gerdes, Raina broached
the idea of selling Ebix.  ”Robin didn’t feel like the public markets were valuing
his company appropriately,” Gerdes said. ”He was frustrated
with managing a public entity.”  Grown Weary  Raina had also grown weary of defending himself against
short-sellers, who have amassed a large negative position in the
stock, said David Collins of Catalyst Global, who served as
Ebix’s outside investor-relations spokesman from 2004 to 2006.  The Goldman Sachs deal would have given him a way out.  ”The sale of company was Robin’s only way to get his life
back,” Collins said in an interview prior to the announcement
of the deal’s demise. ”I can relate to a guy who’s come to
America as a land of opportunity, and created huge wealth for
anyone willing to invest in him, and he’s publicly reviled and
his charitable activities are questioned in a purely personal
way.”  The shorts saw a dash to the exits.  ”Who’s pregnant here?” asked short-seller Cohodes, who
has clashed with Goldman Sachs in the past, before the deal was
scrapped. ”What was the rush to do this deal? Why wouldn’t
anyone want the regulatory process, the legal process to work
itself through?”  Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, said in an
e-mailed statement that the bank “did comprehensive due
diligence over a period of months working closely with our
outside advisors, but the DOJ investigation launched subsequent
to our signing was a new fact.”  Facebook  Raina communicates information about Ebix with shareholders
on conference calls following quarterly earnings statements, and
at “investor day” meetings. As for his philanthropic efforts,
he uses his Facebook Inc. website account to expound on his
beliefs.  In a Facebook posting three years ago, Raina mused on the
importance of charity, and how his battle to eliminate poverty
from the planet by 2050 helped him keep his business
accomplishments in perspective.  ”As I reflected more on what I saw and tried to think
about my own life, I realized that even though I had built a so-called ’successful business’ it did not guarantee happiness to
me irrespective of who I was or how much I had,” he wrote. ”I
thought I had built security, I thought I had built success. But
in reality what I had built was an illusion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Farrell in  New York  at   gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  