-- ECB Bank Oversight Start Said to Be Delayed to Late 2014
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e ,   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-06-21T11:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/ecb-bank-oversight-start-said-to-be-delayed-to-late-2014.html
The European Central Bank probably
won’t take over as euro-area bank supervisor until the final
months of 2014, further delaying the banking union that leaders
wanted in place quickly to stem the sovereign debt crisis.  Late next year is now the time line for the transition to
the new banking supervision regime, in part because of German
approval procedures, according to two European officials who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the preparations are
ongoing. The new schedule contrasts with an initial goal of
moving to the system in March, later pushed back to July.  The Frankfurt-based central bank won’t be able to take up
its new role until September at the earliest, ECB Executive
Board member Yves Mersch said in an interview with
d’Letzebuerger Land newspaper published today. German Finance
Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said yesterday it’s “nonsense” to
blame  Germany  for delaying ECB oversight, as the nation’s
approval processes had been clearly set out.  The ECB’s new role will be a turning point for the currency
zone because it will follow the central bank’s first-ever look
at bank balance sheets, which will start in the fourth quarter
of this year and conclude before the new oversight begins. It
also may be the start date for new backstop tools such as direct
aid from the 500 billion-euro ($660 billion) European Stability
Mechanism.  As a result, postponing the new supervision regime could
reopen questions about whether EU leaders will follow through on
promises to break the link between banks and sovereigns. Over
the past three years, five of the euro area’s 17 nations have
sought bailouts and investors remain jittery that contagion
could flare up again.  ‘Easiest Part’  “It matters symbolically and sends out the message that
the euro zone is not even able to fix the easiest part of
banking union,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING
 Belgium , said by e-mail.  Spanish 10-year bond yields surged the most in 11 months
yesterday after the U.S. Federal Reserve’s announcement that it
may end bond purchases in mid-2014 disrupted the relative calm
on European debt markets that has prevailed since the ECB
unveiled its OMT plan last year. The rate on Italian 10-year
debt fell 5 basis points today after surging 29 basis points to
4.55 percent yesterday and  Portugal ’s 10-year yields rose 2
basis points today after jumping 34 basis points to 6.41
percent.  Part of the delay comes from German legislative procedures
that limit the European Parliament’s ability to sign off on the
legislation. Germany’s lower house, or Bundestag, approved the
euro area’s Single Supervisory Mechanism on June 13 and it
probably will be voted on in the upper house on July 5.  “The German legislature is not to blame for any delays in
Europe,” Schaeuble said after a meeting of euro-region finance
ministers in Luxembourg yesterday. “We’ve said early enough
that we need ratification for the SSM by means of a legislative
process.”  Bank Resolution  That’s right after the European Parliament’s next plenary
session, set for July 1-4 in Strasbourg,  France . Lawmakers have
said they are unwilling to vote on the plans until the German
parliament has approved them, and so confirmed it won’t seek
changes. As a result, EU lawmakers won’t have a chance to vote
until September at the earliest.  The law then requires a one-year transition period, which
the ECB can extend at its discretion.  “We still don’t have any final certainty about when the
draft law will be accepted by the European Parliament,” Mersch
said in the newspaper paper. “Before the European Parliament
votes the national procedures have to be completed. If the
European Parliament postpones the voting date because of the
summer holiday until September, we can only take up our work one
year later -- so at the earliest in September 2014.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in  Luxembourg  at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Luxembourg at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Luxembourg at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  