-- Legg Mason’s Sullivan Turns to Takeovers Amid Redemptions
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-06-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/legg-mason-s-sullivan-turns-to-takeovers-amid-redemptions.html
Legg Mason Inc. (LM)  has a new growth
strategy after five years of investor redemptions: Acquisitions.  Chief Executive Officer Joseph A. Sullivan, an insider who
won the top job even as the Baltimore-based firm considered
bringing in an outsider to shake things up, in March completed
the purchase of fund-of-hedge-funds manager Fauchier Partners,
Legg Mason’s first major  takeover  since 2005. Now he’s looking
to add a unit for non-U.S. equities and to expand Legg Mason’s
alternative-investment offerings, he said in an interview.  “I talk about making an acquisition every day” to add
non-U.S. equities, Sullivan, a 55-year-old Minneapolis native,
said in an interview June 11 in New York. “Beginning in the
fall, I was directed to start moving and have a fresh-start
mentality,” he said, referring to directives from Allen Reed,
non-executive chairman of Legg Mason’s board.  Sullivan’s appetite for acquisitions marks a change of pace
for a firm that, under predecessor  Mark Fetting ’s five-year
tenure, had suffered so much from investor redemptions, subpar
fund performance and discontent among affiliates that it was
considered a candidate for a breakup. While Sullivan has
repaired relations with the investment units, adding quality
money managers may pose a challenge with assets down 35 percent
from their $1 trillion peak to $654 billion, and the  share  price
76 percent below the 2006 high.  Sullivan, who became interim CEO in October before being
named to the role permanently in February, worked for 12 years
starting in 1994 at Legg Mason Wood Walker, a retail brokerage
formerly owned by Legg Mason, before rejoining the parent firm
in 2008 as chief administrative officer and eventually head of
global distribution. In picking Sullivan, Legg Mason turned down
the option to reach for an external candidate to lead the
company.  ‘Offensive Mode’  “Additional acquisitions are clearly a priority for this
management team,” Daniel Fannon, a San Francisco-based analyst
at Jefferies & Co., wrote May 29 in a note to clients. “The
company appears to be in much more of an offensive mode than it
has been in recent history.”  Legg Mason has the capacity to do a $300 million to $500
million transaction while still maintaining its share buy-back
program, according to Fannon. The firm is expecting its cash
balance to decline to about $600 million in the quarter ending
June 30 because of bonus payments made in mid-May.  Acquisitions would help diversify Legg Mason, where bonds
managed by its Western Asset unit account for about 70 percent
of assets after $158 billion in equity redemptions since 2007.  Not Radical  Although Sullivan is focused on expanding, he and other
executives have said they won’t do any deal so large it would
radically transform the company. The CEO will have to convince
potential acquisition targets that Legg Mason’s centralized
distribution model for retail products makes sense and won’t
undermine their independence. He’ll also have to avoid
alienating existing affiliates when giving newly acquired units
equity-share agreements.  Legg Mason’s eight main investment affiliates, which
include equity managers ClearBridge Investments and Royce &
Associates, operate independently with separate revenue-sharing
agreements.  Sullivan is spending more time calming the affiliates since
he took over last year. During the quarter ended Dec. 31, Legg
Mason completed an agreement with hedge-fund unit Permal Group,
which includes a management equity plan, a revised revenue-sharing agreement and new multiyear employment contracts with
key employees. Sullivan said during the interview he wants to
have a couple more equity plans in place with other affiliates
within the next 12 months.  ‘Better Algorithm’  “By doing that, it gives the affiliate skin in the game
and equity in the growth of the franchise,” Sullivan said.
“It’s a better algorithm.”  Legg Mason, which grew from a regional brokerage to one of
the nation’s biggest money managers through acquisitions, made
its last significant purchase in 2005, when it acquired
Citigroup Inc.’s investment unit as well as Permal Group. The
firm, which shot to prominence in the previous decade as home to
famed stock-picker Bill Miller, saw assets decline as subpar
performance in stock and bond funds prompted investor
defections. Legg Mason was also hurt as money-market funds
acquired from Citigroup suffered losses on mortgage-related
investments.  Fetting’s Tenure  Fetting spent his first year as CEO bolstering Legg Mason’s
money funds. He then went on to eliminate jobs, cut costs at
investment units and buy back shares.  Nelson Peltz took a  stake  in Legg Mason in 2009, leading to
speculation that he would want a breakup of the company since
the activist investor is known for pushing companies to increase
value by reducing costs or splitting up. Peltz’s Trian Fund
Management LP owned 10 percent of Legg Mason as of March 31,
making it the largest investor after T. Rowe Price Group Inc.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fetting stepped down as chairman and CEO of Legg Mason two
months before a standstill agreement with Peltz expired, after
failing to end client withdrawals and reverse the decline in
shares.  During the board’s five month search for a CEO before
picking Sullivan, two large private-equity investors showed
interest in financing a buyout led by Western Asset, according
to a Reuters report in January.  Shares Rise  Under Sullivan, Legg Mason had the lowest level of stock
and bond fund withdrawals in the three months ended March 31
since the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2007. The  stock  has risen 25
percent this year, compared with a 24 percent increase in the
20-company Standard & Poor’s index of asset managers and custody
banks.  In March, Legg Mason completed the purchase of Fauchier
Partners, which added about $5 billion in assets to its Permal
unit. Sullivan said Legg Mason had started to work on the
Fauchier transaction before he became CEO.  Legg Mason created about 20 new products that raised more
than $3 billion in assets in the year ended March 31, Sullivan
said during a presentation earlier this month. By expanding
product offerings and relying on Legg Mason’s centralized sales
network of more than 500 employees, the firm can get back to
growth, said Sullivan.  “Since the Fauchier transaction, we’ve had a number of
interesting conversations in recent months about similar types
of opportunities,” he said during the June 11 presentation.
“We are accelerating our efforts to capitalize on them.”  Sullivan said ideally he wants an equity manager that
offers both non-U.S. developed market and emerging-market stock
funds.  Executive Search  In terms of alternative offerings, Sullivan said he’ll
either acquire a separate manager or tack on teams that may
specialize in private equity, real estate and infrastructure to
Permal.  Sullivan said he’s looking for an executive to lead an
expanded business and product-development role, who will assist
with acquisitions. He doesn’t envision Legg Mason becoming like
 Affiliated Managers Group Inc. (AMG) , which is a Beverly,
Massachusetts-based global asset manager with about 25
affiliates ranging from AQR Capital Management to Yacktman Asset
Management.  “I want fewer bigger, broader affiliates,” Sullivan said.
“We have a different approach than AMG. We won’t have 15, maybe
10.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  