-- Egypt’s Economy Seen Losing 20.3 Billion Pounds to Child Hunger
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-06-20T13:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/egypt-s-economy-seen-losing-20-3-billion-pounds-to-child-hunger.html
Under-nutrition among Egyptian
children cost the country’s economy an estimated 20.3 billion
pounds ($2.9 billion) in 2009, or 1.9 percent of gross domestic
product, the United Nations said, citing a government study.  Higher health-care costs, additional burdens on education
and lower productivity stemming from stunting or chronic
malnutrition were particular drivers for the economic losses,
the UN’s Rome-based World Food Programme wrote in an online
 statement  today, citing the study results.  Stunting occurs among 40 percent of the populace in Egypt,
the world’s biggest wheat importer, according to the research,
which was backed by organizations including the WFP. That means
more than 20 million people of working age are unable to achieve
their potential, the WFP wrote. The results are part of a 12-country study in  Africa .  “In rural Egypt, where most people are engaged in manual
activities, it is estimated that in 2009 alone, a value of 10.7
billion Egyptian pounds of economic productivity was lost due to
lower physical capacity by those who were stunted as children,”
the WFP wrote. “Under-nutrition is not just a health issue, but
an economic one as well.”  Illnesses linked to child under-nutrition were estimated to
result in health-care costs equivalent to 1.2 billion pounds,
according to the report. Data from  Egypt ’s Demographic Health
Survey showed the number of stunted children increased in 2008
from 2005, affecting 28.9 percent of those under the age of
five.  The study was performed by Egypt’s Information and Decision
Support Center, with data provided by the statistics agency and
the health and education ministries, the WFP said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  