-- Egypt’s Central Bank Keeps Key Interest Rate Unchanged
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-06-20T15:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/egypt-s-central-bank-keeps-key-interest-rate-unchanged.html
Egypt’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged today after inflation held
steady and foreign reserves increased.  The overnight deposit rate was kept at 9.75 percent and the
overnight lending rate at 10.75 percent. The decision matched
forecasts from five of six economists in a Bloomberg survey,
while one analyst had called for an increase.  Net international reserves rose to $16 billion in May from
$14.4 billion a month earlier, the highest level since January
2012, after Egypt received $3 billion from Qatar. Reserves have
tumbled more than half since the end of 2010, as the uprising
that ousted  Hosni Mubarak  and the subsequent turmoil battered
the economy. The annual urban inflation rate in May rose to 8.2
percent from 8.1 percent in April.  The bank’s decision came “as headline inflation largely
stabilized in May, partially supported by an equivalent
stabilization of the” Egyptian pound, Mohamed Abu Basha, an
economist at investment bank EFG Hermes Holding SAE in Cairo,
said in response to e-mailed questions.  The pound has lost 11.6 percent since the central bank
started limiting access to dollars in December, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We expect the local currency to remain pressured given
the lack of foreign inflows coupled with the current political
instability,”Alia Mamdouh, an economist with Cairo-based CI
Capital, said. Inflationary pressure suggests “a tightening
monetary policy in the medium term,” she said.  Rival Rallies  The central bank’s decision came ahead of rallies planned
for June 30 by opponents of President Mohamed Mursi, who are
marking his first year in office by calling for elections to
replace him. Mursi’s supporters are planning counter
demonstrations tomorrow.  Political polarization has marred  Egypt ’s transition and
stifled efforts to boost the economy and to conclude a $4.8
billion loan accord with the International Monetary Fund.  Mursi’s critics accuse him of advancing the interests of
the Muslim Brotherhood from which he hails instead of focusing
on fighting unemployment, corruption and poverty, some of the
complaints that spurred the 2011 revolt. His supporters say
rampant demonstrations undermine his stabilization efforts.  “Investors are now somewhat acclimatized to the volatility
in domestic politics,” Raza Agha, chief Middle East and Africa
economist at VTB Capital in  London , said in response to e-mailed
questions. “The size of the protests will be a key measure of
how popular or unpopular the presidency has become since his
election last year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  