-- Buffett-Backed Heinz Shakes Up Management After Buyout
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-06-20T14:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/heinz-promotes-foley-in-shakeup-after-berkshire-3g-takeover.html
HJ Heinz Co. said 11 executives are
leaving as the world’s largest ketchup maker shakes up
management less than a month after being acquired by  Jorge Paulo Lemann ’s 3G Capital and  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   Dave Woodward, the chief executive officer of Europe,
General Counsel Ted Bobby and North America CEO David Moran are
among those departing, the Pittsburgh-based company said today
in a statement. Matt Hill was promoted to president of Europe
from a post overseeing the U.K. and Ireland. Dan Shaw was named
general counsel. Brendan Foley was promoted to zone president of
Heinz North America from president of U.S. consumer products.  The transition “demonstrates the power and potential of
meritocracy at work here,” Heinz CEO Bernardo Hees said in the
statement. “As shown through today’s various internal
promotions and appointments, the company is focused on rewarding
and promoting the best and brightest talent.”  Buffett, 82, is betting on 3G to wring profit from Heinz
after the $28.8 billion takeover, which included debt financing.
He said last month that he agreed to the acquisition because of
his confidence that Lemann’s firm would run the business well.  “They are extraordinary managers,” Buffett said May 4 at
Berkshire’s annual meeting in Omaha,  Nebraska , where the company
is based. “We stretched a little because of that.”  Berkshire and 3G each contributed about $4 billion to get
half the equity in Heinz’s new holding company. In addition,
Buffett committed $8 billion for preferred shares that pay a 9
percent dividend and give him the option to buy an additional 5
percent stake for a  “nominal sum.”   Pelleissone, Keatings  3G had already moved to shake up management at Heinz,
naming Hees as CEO and Paulo Basilio as chief financial officer.
The managers replaced William Johnson, Heinz’s CEO of 15 years,
and former CFO Art Winkleblack. Hees was previously CEO at
 Burger King Worldwide Inc. (BKW) , which 3G bought in October 2010.  Heinz listed 10 executives who will be on the senior
leadership team, in addition to Basilio and Hees. Nine of the 10
were previously at the ketchup maker.  The newcomer is Eduardo Pelleissone, who joined from
Brazilian freight company ALL America Latina Logistica SA, to be
executive vice president of operations. Heinz CFO Basilio
previously led ALL.  Andy Keatings, the chief quality officer who has worked at
Heinz since 1994, joins the leadership team and will be in
charge of maintaining food safety and  managing risk  globally. He
will have a “dotted-line reporting relationship” with the
 board , which includes Buffett and Lemann, 73.  Russia, Turkey  Other appointments include new zone presidents for  Russia ,
 Turkey , the Middle East and  Africa ; Latin America; and Asia
Pacific. Heinz said it would name leaders for vacant business
units soon.  Heinz has “attractive future growth opportunities in
 emerging markets  such as Brazil, Russia and  Indonesia ,” Moody’s
Investors Service said yesterday in a note. “New and ongoing
cost savings initiatives under the new ownership will be a key
driver of earnings growth and financial deleveraging.”  3G has moved quickly to shake up management in the past.
Within two months of buying Burger King, Lemann’s company cut
413 jobs at the restaurant chain’s North American and Latin
American operations, including jobs at headquarters in Miami. It
also said it would reduce spending on travel, rent and other
items to save $30 million to $40 million a year.  Burger King’s employee count fell about 12 percent to
34,248 from mid-2010 through 2011, according to  regulatory
filings . Lemann’s firm sold part of its stake in the chain last
year in an initial public offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  