-- Melrose Declines After Sale of Marelli to Carlyle: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-06-20T11:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/melrose-declines-after-sale-of-marelli-to-carlyle-london-mover.html
Melrose Industries Plc (MRO) , the owner of
Brush Turbogenerators, fell the most in more than seven months
on concern that the sale of its Italian unit Marelli Motori may
dilute earnings.  The  shares  dropped as much as 4.7 percent, the biggest
intraday decline since Nov. 16. The stock traded 4.3 percent
lower at 236.30 pence at 11:20 a.m. in  London . The drop pared
this year’s gain to 5.3 percent. The volume of shares traded was
24 percent of the three-month daily average.  The sale is in line with Melrose’s strategy of buying
manufacturing companies, improving their performance and then
selling them. Last month it agreed to sell its Truth Hardware
unit to  Tyman Plc (TYMN)  for $200 million. Melrose also said this month
it’s in the early stages of considering the disposal of its
Crosby and Acco units.  “It is totally in keeping with strategy and it is a better
price than we were expecting,” Harry Philips, an analyst at
Oriel Securities, who has a  buy rating  on the stock, said in a
telephone interview. “Any investor concern about dilution is
rather spurious.”  Melrose agreed to sell Marelli, which makes generators and
electric motors, to Carlyle Group LP, the world’s second-biggest
manager of alternative assets, for 212 million euros ($280
million) in cash, the London-based company said in a statement
today.  Marelli Disposal  The disposal, which raised 20 percent more than Philips had
expected, will dilute full-year earnings per share by as much as
4 percent, he said in a note to clients. That would be offset by
a return of cash to shareholders at a later date, he said in the
interview.  Melrose may raise 2 billion pounds ($3.1 billion) from
 asset sales  and return 600 million pounds of that amount to
investors, he said.  “The model is working,” Philips said. “Marelli is
another part of the process and the real catalyst for the stock
is set to be Crosby which could potentially come later this
year.”  Cash Return  The sale of Marelli means investors can look forward to a
cash return of about 50 pence per share, probably after the sale
of Crosby and possibly by the end of this year, Investec
Securities analyst Chris Dyett wrote in a note to clients today.
Crosby could fetch 550 million pounds, he said.  Dilution was not a serious concern given Melrose’s record
of realizing value from all its assets, said Dyett, who
maintained his buy rating and said his valuation of the company
looked “increasingly conservative.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  