-- Emerging Markets Era of Outperformance Is Ending, Goldman Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2013-06-20T14:22:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/emerging-markets-era-of-outperformance-is-ending-goldman-says.html
The decade-long outperformance of
developing-nation assets has ended, according to the Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. economist who predicted the rise of the biggest
emerging markets in 2003.  The five trends that spurred outsized gains during the past
10 years -- surging growth in the so-called BRIC nations, higher
commodities, improved government finances, slower inflation and
lower U.S. bond yields -- are halting and in some cases
reversing,  Dominic Wilson , the chief markets economist at New
York-based Goldman Sachs, wrote in a report dated yesterday.  “While cyclical opportunities will come and go, the era of
structural outperformance for EM is probably over,” he wrote.  Emerging-market stocks, bonds and currencies tumbled today
amid speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will reduce monetary
stimulus that has spurred $3.9 trillion of capital inflows into
developing nations during the past four years. Wilson, who
predicted Brazil, Russia, India and China would join the ranks
of the world’s largest economies in a 2003 research report while
working with economist  Jim O’Neill , now says their contribution
to global growth is peaking. O’Neill, who retired from Goldman
Sachs this year, coined the BRIC moniker in 2001.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index sank 3.2 percent to an 11-month low of 916.17 at 8:32 a.m. in New York, while currencies
in India, the Philippines and  South Korea  weakened more than 1
percent and South African bond yields surged. Fed Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  said yesterday policy makers may start reducing debt
purchases and end the program in 2014 should risks to the  U.S.
economy  abate.  Lower Returns  Even with the recent losses, the MSCI emerging index has
climbed about 214 percent since the end of 2002, compared with
an 85 percent gain in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s gauge of developing-nation currencies has returned
103 percent in the same period.  “Over the next decade, EM assets are unlikely to deliver
the kind of risk-reward that investors had become used to in the
last one,” Wilson wrote. “And absolute returns will likely be
much lower.”  Jan Dehn, the head of research at Ashmore Investment
Management, says declines in  emerging markets  are a buying
opportunity because valuations have gotten cheap.  The MSCI gauge  trades  for 1.4 times net assets, a 28
percent discount versus the MSCI World index of developed-nation
shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with an average discount of less than 1 percent during the past
five years.  Relative Value  “The right thing to do here, obviously, is to buy,” Dehn
said by e-mail.  Valuations in developing-nation debt and  currency markets 
have become more expensive in the past decade, according to
Wilson. The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
 government bonds  over Treasuries has dropped to about 1.1
percentage point from 4 percentage points, excluding Argentina
and Venezuela, he wrote. The average emerging-market currency is
now 10 percent overvalued, according to Wilson, who cited a
Goldman Sachs model.  The economist said investors may need to focus on country-specific drivers, instead of relying on a repeat of the
widespread rally in emerging markets that defined the last
decade.  “What we may be seeing is a return to conventional EM
investing, where differentiation rather than broad exposure to
the asset class becomes a larger part of the investment
process,” Wilson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in  Hong Kong  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  