-- Emerging Markets Crack as $3.9 Trillion Funds Unwind: Currencies
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2013-06-20T11:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/emerging-markets-crack-as-3-9-trillion-funds-unwind-currencies.html
Investors are pulling money from
 emerging markets  at the fastest pace in two years as slowing
economic growth and the prospect of less global stimulus sink
stocks, bonds and currencies from  India  to Brazil.  More than $19 billion left funds investing in developing-nation assets in the three weeks to June 12, the most since
2011, according to EPFR Global. Foreign investors dumped an
unprecedented $5.6 billion of Brazilian stocks and $3.2 billion
of  Indian bonds  this month, exchange data show. JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s  emerging -currency index is down 1.4 percent this quarter,
while the rupee and Turkish lira hit record lows and the real
reached its weakest level since 2009.  “These are pre-quake tremors: something big is coming,”
Stephen Jen, the co-founder of hedge fund SLJ Macro Partners
LLP, said in a phone interview from  London  on June 12. “There’s
tremendous deceleration in emerging markets. You may see crisis-like price actions without having a crisis.”  The reversal of the $3.9 trillion of cash that flowed into
emerging markets the past four years has been compounded by
popular protests in  Turkey  and  Brazil  challenging government
policies on everything from fighting inflation to developing
infrastructure.  China , the largest developing economy, is
forecast by the World Bank to expand at the slowest pace since
1999 this year, while  current-account deficits  in  Indonesia ,
Brazil and  Chile  have grown to the widest in a decade.  Cheap Money  Speculation that the Federal Reserve and European Central
Bank will end the flood of cheap money is contributing to the
pullout. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said yesterday that policy
makers may “moderate” their pace of bond purchases later this
year, reducing money being pumped into the U.S. economy, some of
which has found its way to other countries.  India’s rupee weakened as much as 2.2 percent against the
dollar today to a record 59.98, and was at 59.575 as of 7:47
a.m. in New York. Raghuram Rajan, the chief economic advisor to
India’s finance ministry, said in New Delhi today that the Asian
nation will take “appropriate” steps to contain the rupee’s
volatility.  Malaysia’s ringgit depreciated 1.7 percent, the biggest
drop since November 2011. The Russian ruble declined 1.9 percent
to an 11-month low and South Africa’s rand fell 2.9 percent,
approaching the weakest level in four years. Poland’s zloty sank
as much as 2 percent versus the euro to the lowest in a year.  MSCI Inc.’s Emerging Markets stock index is down 13 percent
this year, compared with a 14 percent advance in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. The developing-nation measure is trailing the
U.S. benchmark by the most since 1998.  Leading Declines  Brazil’s  IBovespa (IBOV)  led declines among 21 developing-nation
stock indexes tracked by Bloomberg, with a 21 percent drop this
year. Peru’s Lima General Index fell 20 percent and the Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index sank 19 percent. The  Philippine
Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  posted the biggest gain at 8.9 percent.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the Brazilian explorer
controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , slipped 82 percent this
year, the steepest drop in the MSCI Emerging Markets gauge. Sao
Paulo-based utility Eletropaulo Metropolitana SA retreated 61
percent and China Foods Ltd., a Hong Kong beverage maker,
dropped 58 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Local-currency government bonds  in emerging countries have
slumped 4.8 percent since Dec. 31, data compiled by JPMorgan
show. Commodities, as measured by the  S&P GSCI Index (SPGSCI) , dropped
3.3 percent in the same period as demand from China waned.  ‘Substantial Inflows’  After years of “substantial inflows,” emerging markets
are “vulnerable” to “global portfolio relocations,” Deutsche
Bank AG analysts led by Marc Balston in London wrote in a client
note on June 13.  ECB President Mario Draghi said June 6 that the central
bank sees no reason for “immediate action” on asset purchases
or further cuts to its 0.5 percent main interest rate.  Speculation that developed-world interest rates have
bottomed out is reducing appetite for the carry trade, where
investors borrow cheaply in one country to invest in higher-yielding currencies, often in emerging markets.  The rand in South Africa, where the  benchmark rate  is 5
percent, is down 21 percent this year against the dollar, the
biggest decline among emerging currencies, and lost 14 percent
since May 1 alone, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
Brazilian real retreated 11 percent since the start of last
month, while the rupee sank 11 percent.  Deutsche Bank, the biggest currency trader, recommends
selling Asian currencies, including the  yuan , rupiah and
ringgit. China’s yuan has lost 0.1 percent since reaching a
record high of 6.1203 per dollar last month.  Underweight Call  JPMorgan advised its clients last week to stay underweight
all emerging-market assets, citing capital outflows and a
“negative momentum” in expectations for growth.  “Developed-market investors have been heavily favoring
emerging-market bonds and equities in recent years” because
their economies were expanding rapidly and their assets were
“systematically cheap,” JPMorgan strategists led by Jan Loeys
in New York wrote in a June 14 note. “They are now starting to
wonder whether this is still the case, and are slowly moving to
neutral on emerging markets.”  The World Bank lowered its forecast this month for China’s
growth in 2013 to 7.7 percent, which would be the slowest since
1999, from an 8.4 percent estimate in January. The Washington-based institution cut its forecast for developing-nation growth
this year to 5.1 percent, from 5.5 percent. That’s still more
than quadruple the 1.2 percent forecast for advanced economies.  Bigger Gain  Even with the recent declines, the MSCI emerging-market
stock index has advanced 222 percent since the end of 2002,
compared with an 85 percent increase in the S&P.  JPMorgan’s currency gauge has returned 103 percent in the
same period, and emerging currencies make up three of the five
top performers in the global exchange market. The real is up 59
percent since the end of 2002.  Viktor Szabo, who helps oversee $12 billion in emerging-market assets at Aberdeen Investment Management Ltd., said the
selloff has made some emerging-market currencies attractive. The
real is worth buying because bond yields have risen to a level
that compensates for the risk, he said.  Yields Jump  The average yield on emerging-market government bonds
jumped to 6.25 percent on June 11, the highest in a year, before
falling to 6.19 percent, JPMorgan indexes show. Brazil’s
benchmark 10-year note yield rose to 11.5 percent, from 9.2
percent at the start of the year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We’ll see continued appreciation of emerging-market
currencies” should volatility decrease, Szabo said in a June 14
phone interview from London. “Looking ahead, we’re still
positive on China, the U.S. and  Japan . We don’t expect a further
drag on emerging markets.”  Anti-government protests, sparked by anger over a planned
development in Istanbul, spread nationwide in Turkey on May 31,
marking the most serious unrest during Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s decade in power. At least four people have died
in clashes between demonstrators and police, and thousands have
been injured.  In Brazil, protests erupted over an increase in bus fares
and have spread across the country in the biggest demonstrations
in the South American country in two decades.  The real fell to as low as 2.2354 per dollar today, its
weakest level since April 2009, while the Turkish lira slipped
to a record 1.9315.  Outstripping Crisis  In the four years through 2012, investors poured $3.9
trillion into emerging markets, outstripping the $3.1 trillion
they added in the same period leading up to the global financial
crisis, said SLJ Macro’s Jen, citing data from  Institute for
International Finance Inc.   In another sign international investor appetite is waning,
South Korea raised less than a 10th of the amount planned in an
auction of inflation-linked bonds today. The Finance Ministry
sold 55.6 billion won ($49 million) of 10-year linkers, having
offered 600 billion won, according to its website.  Losses in emerging-market currencies in coming months may
approach the declines of 2008 when the real and lira slid more
than 23 percent, according to Jen, a former International
Monetary Fund economist who first warned about developing
nations as early as January 2011.  ‘Dangerous’ Times  “This is a dangerous period,” Jen said. “The Fed will
start to normalize rates. It’s a gradual process, but the
pressure will only point in one direction, which is in favor of
the dollar and against emerging markets.”  The $14 billion  Pimco Emerging Local Bond Fund (PELBX) , the largest
developing-country debt fund, lost $69 million in May in its
second monthly outflow since 2009, according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) 
data.  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for Newport Beach,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co. LLC, declined
to comment.  The selloff will probably “constitute only a small part of
a bigger trend for emerging assets” as countries fueled by
cheap credit are “wrong-footed” in an environment of rising
interest rates, Goldman Sachs strategists led by London-based
Thomas Stolper wrote in a June 14 note. The lira, real, rand,
Thai baht and Philippine peso are the most vulnerable, the
analysts wrote.  Budget Gaps  Imports fueled by cheap borrowing increased the current-account deficits of Chile, Brazil and Indonesia to the highest
in at least a decade, leaving the countries susceptible to
capital flight, data compiled by Bloomberg show. South Africa
needs to attract $63 billion of foreign capital every month to
sustain its consumption.  International investors have less incentive to provide that
cash while rates at home are rising. The yield on the benchmark
10-year  U.S. Treasury (USGG10YR)  note jumped to 2.47 percent, the highest
since August 2011.  The declines in emerging-market assets may accelerate
outflows and create a vicious cycle, according to Phillip Blackwood, who oversees $3.7 billion of developing-nation debt
as managing partner at EM Quest Capital LLP in London.  “This is the beginning of the end of the easy money,”
said Blackwood, who’s betting on a retreat in the lira and
Colombian peso. “The positive situation they were in before is
now reversing. That’s a perfect storm for further drops.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in Hong Kong at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  