-- Emerging-Market Stocks Plunge Most in 20 Months on China
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-06-20T21:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/emerging-stocks-fall-to-11-month-low-as-currencies-slump-on-fed.html
Emerging-market stocks dropped the
most in more than 20 months, currencies weakened and government
borrowing costs rose after  China ’s cash crunch worsened and the
 Federal Reserve  said it may reduce monetary stimulus this year.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slid 4 percent to 908.49,
capping the biggest decline since September 2011. Its 10-day
 volatility  rose to an 11-month high.  Turkey ’s benchmark stock
index lost 6.8 percent, entering a  bear market , led by banks.
Twenty two out of 24 developing-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg fell as the Turkish lira and India’s rupee hit record
lows. South Africa’s bonds yields surged and the rand fell a
fifth day. Brazil’s Ibovespa rebounded from a four-year low.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the central
bank may start reducing bond purchases and end the program in
2014 should risks to the  U.S. economy  abate. China’s benchmark
money-market rate climbed to a record and a private report
showed manufacturing shrank at a faster pace this month. Funds
investing in developing-nation assets saw outflows of more than
$19 billion in the three weeks to June 12, the most since 2011,
according to EPFR Global.  “There’s been this terrible confluence of events,” Brian Jacobsen, who helps oversee $221.2 billion as chief portfolio
strategist at Wells Fargo Advantage Funds in Menomonee Falls,
 Wisconsin , said by phone. “There’s the continuing saga in
China. You had a lot of footloose capital flowing to some
 emerging markets , and now as the Fed announces they might start
tapering, suddenly we see a reversal of a lot of those flows.”  Biggest Losses  All  industry groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell
at least 2.7 percent today, led by gauges of financial and
utility companies. The selloff sent  valuations  of shares in the
developing-nation index down to 9.4 times 12-month estimated
earnings, an 11-month low. Shares in the MSCI World Index of
developed markets are valued at 12.9 times projected profits.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund slid 4.5 percent to $36.88, a one-year low. The Chicago
Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a
measure of options prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, surged 34 percent, the most since August 2011, to 35.48.  The MSCI emerging markets index has  tumbled  14 percent this
year on bets the Fed will end the flood of cheap money that
spurred investors to pour $3.9 trillion into developing nations
during the past four years. Slower economic growth in China,
violent protests in Turkey and widening current-account deficits
in Brazil and Indonesia have also fueled capital outflows.  ‘Probably Over’  The decade-long outperformance of developing-nation assets
“is probably over”, according to  Dominic Wilson , the chief
markets economist at New York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
who predicted the rise of the biggest emerging markets in 2003.  The five trends that spurred outsized gains during the past
10 years -- surging growth in the so-called BRIC nations, higher
commodities, improved government finances, slower inflation and
lower U.S. bond yields -- are halting and in some cases
reversing, Wilson wrote in a report dated yesterday.  “After 10 years of solid inflows into emerging-market
debt, we should prepare ourselves for a period of outflows,”
Maarten-Jan Bakkum, an emerging-market strategist at ING
Investment Management in The Hague, said by e-mail. “This
should push currencies down more, lead to higher  interest rates 
in emerging markets and make it necessary for investors to
adjust their EM growth expectations downwards.”  Brazil’s Ibovespa reversed an earlier decline as mining
company MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA led raw-material producers
higher. The real dropped to a four-year low, prompting the
central bank to intervene for a third day this week.  Bear Market  Turkey’s (XU100)  Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index
dropped the most among major emerging-market gauges, sinking
more than 20 percent from its May peak into a so-called bear
market.  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB)  lost 7.4 percent in Istanbul.
The lira dropped for a fourth day.  Russia’s Micex Index retreated 2 percent as OAO Sberbank,
Russia’s biggest lender, fell 3.4 percent. The ruble dropped a
third day against the central bank’s dollar-euro basket.  South Africa’s rand dropped to a four-year low and yields
on 10.5 percent bonds due December 2026 jumped to 8.27 percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index lost 2.8 percent, the lowest
in six months, while the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of
mainland companies listed in  Hong Kong  slid 3.3 percent, the
most since May 2012. The Jakarta Composite Index slumped 3.7
percent, the steepest loss in a year, while India’s S&P BSE
Sensex tumbled 2.7 percent, the most since 2011. South Korea’s
Kospi index declined 2 percent.  BYD Co. (1211) , a Chinese auto company partially owned by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., fell the most since Sept. 26,
after saying a charger at a Hong Kong parking lot partially
melted because of a faulty connection to the electricity grid.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries soared 11 basis points to 331 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  