-- Equity Volatility Surges Globally Amid Record Futures
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-06-20T16:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/equity-volatility-surges-globally-amid-record-futures.html
Stock volatility jumped around the
world, with the U.S. benchmark gauge surging the most in two
months, after speculation the Federal Reserve will cut stimulus
sent futures trading to an  all-time high .  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, which
tracks options on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,  climbed  9.1
percent to 18.15 at 12:38 p.m. in New York today. Europe’s
VStoxx Index, a gauge of Euro Stoxx 50 Index derivatives, gained
16 percent to 23.61, and Hong Kong’s HSI Volatility Index, based
on Hang Seng Index contracts,  rose  7.7 percent to 22.72, near a
one-year high. About 218,000 futures tracking the U.S. VIX
changed hands each day on average in June, 49 percent more than
the previous month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  U.S.  stocks  dropped, with the  S&P 500 (SPX)  down more than 2
percent since June 18, after Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said
the central bank may “moderate” its pace of bond purchases
later this year as economic risks subside. Equity swings are
getting bigger and the Dow Jones Industrial Average has posted
triple-digit moves for the past seven days, the longest streak
since October 2011.  “The activism of the Fed can’t go on forever and people
try to be ready for it going the other way when the cracks start
showing up,” Justin Golden, a partner at Lake Hill Capital
Management LLC, said in a phone interview yesterday. The New
York-based hedge fund trades options on equity indexes and
commodities. “People are anticipating a shift in the market and
they are using  VIX (VIX)  products to get in front of it.”  VIX ETN  Speculation the central bank will begin withdrawing its
stimulus measures has boosted trading in an exchange-traded note
tracking U.S. volatility. The  iPath S&P 500 VIX Short-Term
Futures ETN (VXX)  was the third most-active ETF in the U.S. yesterday,
with 86.7 million shares changing hands, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Options outstanding on the iPath VIX ETN have jumped 34
percent this year, reaching an all-time high of 3.48 million on
June 13, the data show.  The S&P 500 lost 1.4 percent to 1,628.93 yesterday for the
biggest drop since May 31. The VIX climbed 0.2 percent to 16.64.
The two gauges move in opposite directions about 80 percent of
the time.  Economic Outlook  Risks to the economic outlook and the labor market have
diminished, the Federal Open Market Committee said at the
conclusion of a two-day meeting yesterday, repeating that it’s
prepared to reduce or increase the pace of bond purchases
depending on the outlook for jobs and inflation. U.S. equities
and government debt extended losses after Bernanke said the
central bank may begin tapering bond purchases this year if the
economy continues to improve.  Fifteen of 19 participants on the FOMC expect the first
rise in the federal funds rate to occur in 2015 or later,
forecasts released yesterday showed. That exceeds the 14 of 19
who projected in March the first rate increase would happen
after 2014.  Ramon Verastegui, a derivatives strategist at Societe
Generale SA in New York, said an increase in equity volatility
will follow from fluctuations in the rates market as the Fed
reduces the pace of bond purchases in an improving economy.  MOVE Index  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE Index rose to a one-year high of 86.89 yesterday, up from a 2013 low of 48.87 in
May. The gauge, which measures volatility based on prices of
over-the-counter options on Treasuries maturing in two to 30
years, has averaged 62.2 in the past year.  “Volatility in the bond market will translate into
equities and the VIX as we begin to leave QE behind us,”
Verastegui said by phone. “The VIX market is much more liquid
so when people want to play a scenario of less monetary easing
and rising rates, they drift into equity volatility.”  The Fed isn’t likely to make any sudden changes to its bond
buying program during the next four months, according to John Manley, chief equity strategist for Wells Fargo Funds
Management. The central bank repeated yesterday that it will
keep buying assets “until the outlook for the labor market has
improved substantially.”  ‘More Calm’  The U.S. unemployment rate climbed to 7.6 percent in May
from a four-year low, above the Fed’s goal of 6.5 percent for
the central bank to consider raising interest rates.  “We will see more calm,” Manley, whose firm advises
$222.7 billion in Wells Fargo Advantage Funds, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s just another example about how
nervous Wall Street is about everything and it will gradually
fade back to a more normal level of implied volatility.”  The VIX has surged 47 percent from a six-year low in March.
The volatility gauge is still 33 percent below its average from
the past five years.  Traders are boosting bets that U.S. stock-market volatility
will increase during the next three months, sending options
prices to the highest levels in 1 1/2 years relative to six-month contracts.  Implied volatility  for three-month contracts has climbed 26
percent to 14.7 from its March 14 low, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg on options with an exercise price near the
S&P 500. That compares with a 17 percent increase to 15.5 for
six-month contracts. The ratio between the two measures reached
0.98 last week, the highest since December 2011.  “The Fed’s stimulus actions have absolutely suppressed
equity market volatility and a reversal of those actions is
likely to increase volatility,” Michael McCarty, managing
partner at New York-based Differential Research LLC, said in a
phone interview yesterday. “That’s why people are going into
the VIX and the volatility products.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in London at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  