-- EU Carbon Trades Near One-Week Low as Biggest Party Split on Fix
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-06-20T16:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/eu-carbon-trades-near-one-week-low-as-biggest-party-split-on-fix.html
European Union carbon permits trade
near a one-week low amid signs the biggest political party in
the bloc’s Parliament is still divided in its support for an
emissions market rescue plan.  EU allowances for December closed 0.9 percent higher at
4.43 euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
 London  after earlier dropping to 4.30 euros, the lowest since
June 12. The contracts dropped as much as 7.2 percent yesterday
after the Parliament’s environment committee recommended
approving a watered-down proposal to delay the sale of some
carbon permits.  The panel voted 44 to 23, with one abstention, against a
motion to block the measure, while committee members from the
 European People’s Party , the biggest group in the Parliament,
voted 12 to 11, with one abstention, in favor. EPP lawmakers
held a preparatory meeting before yesterday’s vote on June 18,
where a majority favored the compromise solution.  “The meeting on Tuesday evening was very chaotic and
certainly did not reflect the real situation in the group,”
Eija-Riitta Korhola, the EPP lawmaker in charge of the proposal
in the group, said by phone today. “Some members weren’t even
able to come. Even for me, the changed voting list came as a big
surprise.”  The latest version of the measure, designed to reduce a
surplus of emission permits and boost carbon prices, goes to a
plenary vote on July 3. The original proposal was rejected by
the assembly in April.  Tie Hands  A majority of EPP members were against the first plan in
the Parliament’s April vote, when the assembly sent it back to
the environment panel for further talks. The party will decide
on its position for the July plenary ballot next week.  “I wanted to emphasize before the vote that the compromise
can’t tie the hands of EPP members because we didn’t have a
debate where we would commit to such a compromise,” Korhola
said.  The proposal includes postponing sales of carbon permits
and returning, or backloading, them to the market one year after
the allowances are withheld. The European Commission, the EU’s
regulatory arm, originally proposed delaying permits in the
three years through 2015 and returning them at the end of the
decade.  All 17 members of the Socialists and Democrats group, six
members of the Greens group, three lawmakers from the European
United Left-Nordic Green Left group and one independent opposed
the rejection of backloading yesterday. Liberals voted six to
two against the motion to block the market fix.  Six members of the European Conservatives and Reformists
group and three of the European Freedom and Democracy voted in
favor of the amendment to reject the rescue plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  