-- Euro Area, IMF Say Greek Funding Assured
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-06-21T13:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/euro-area-imf-say-greek-funding-assured-with-reform-progress.html
The euro area and the  International
Monetary Fund  said Greece is assured of its next aid payment as
long as it presses ahead with an economic-overhaul program.  Jeroen Dijsselbloem, Dutch head of the group of euro-area
finance ministers, said European and IMF experts intend to wrap
up their latest review of Greece’s budget-cutting progress in
July. The austerity is a condition for fresh payouts of aid
under a 130 billion-euro ($172 billion) program.  “We have discussed the state of play on the Greek program,
also on financing, and we once again concluded that financing is
guaranteed for another year,” Dijsselbloem told reporters late
yesterday in Luxembourg after chairing a meeting of his euro-area counterparts. “Further disbursements will be decided on
the basis of the review to be finalized in July.”  The assurances came amid further political fallout in
 Greece  resulting from the government’s June 11 decision to shut
down public broadcaster ERT, suspend 2,600 jobs there and create
a new, smaller company. One of Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s two coalition partners yesterday rejected his
proposals for revamping ERT and today decided to withdraw from
the government.  Among the conditions for the international loans, Greece
has to reduce the number of workers on the state payroll by
15,000 by the end of 2014.  ‘Financing Problems’  “The priority remains for the Greek authorities to deliver
on the program quickly,” Gerry Rice, an IMF spokesman in
 Washington , said in a statement yesterday. “If the review is
completed by the end of July, as expected, no financing problems
will arise because the program is financed till end-July 2014.”  Greek Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras told reporters in
Luxembourg yesterday that the government in  Athens  must push
ahead with plans to shrink the public-sector workforce in order
to win an 8.1 billion-euro payout for July. He said the sum
could carry Greece until early 2014.  The challenge was highlighted today when the smallest party
in the ruling coalition -- Democratic Left -- withdrew over the
closure of ERT. The two remaining coalition partners are
Samaras’s New Democracy party and the Socialist Pasok, which
together have a majority of 153 in the 300-seat parliament
compared with 167 with Democratic Left’s support.  “I have full confidence that the main political parties in
Greece know what is at stake and that they will find a solution
to come together and to solve the outstanding issues,”
Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said in an interview
today.  Dijsselbloem said the failure of euro-area central banks to
roll over Greek debt held in investment portfolios poses no
immediate funding problem for the government in Athens. He said
a solution would eventually have to be found to the issue.  “There are various solutions for that,” Dijsselbloem
said. “That does not slam an immediate hole in the financing
program.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Luxembourg at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Luxembourg at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  