-- Euro-Area Services, Factory Output Rises More Than Forecast
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-06-20T09:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/euro-area-services-factory-output-rises-more-than-forecast-1-.html
Euro-area services and factory
output increased more than economists forecast in June, adding
to signs the currency bloc may emerge from its  record-long
recession  in the second quarter.  A  composite index  based on a survey of purchasing managers
in both industries rose to 48.9 from 47.7 in May, London-based
Markit Economics said today. That is the highest in 15 months
and exceeded the median estimate of 48.1 in a  Bloomberg News
survey (ECPMICOU)  of 26 economists. A reading below 50 indicates
contraction.  The six-quarter contraction in the euro-area economy is
forecast to end in the April-June period, when economists
project gross domestic product will stagnant before growing 0.1
percent in the third quarter, according to a Bloomberg survey.
Still, a slowdown in Chinese manufacturing is raising concerns
that European exports may struggle to help the recovery at a
time when budget cuts continue to damp  consumer spending .  Today’s report “reinforces the view that the  euro-zone 
recession is gradually petering out,” said Martin van Vliet,
senior euro-area economist at ING Bank NV in Amsterdam. “Please
note, however, that any further recovery later in the year is
likely to be very slow and bumpy.”  Services Industry  The euro extended declines against the  U.S. dollar  after
the purchasing-managers data. The European currency traded at
$1.3203 at 10:46 a.m. in Brussels, down 0.7 percent on the day.  A euro-area gauge based on a survey of purchasing managers
in the services industry rose to 48.6 in June from 47.2 in May,
according to today’s report. A measure of euro-area
manufacturing output increased to 48.7 this month from 48.3 in
May.  In  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy, the services industry
expanded at the fastest pace in four months in June, while
manufacturing continued to contract. The German services index
rose to 51.3 this month from 49.7 in May, Markit said. A gauge
of German manufacturing fell to 48.7 in June from 49.4 in the
prior month.  The  European Central Bank  cut its growth projections for
the euro zone this month and now predicts the 17-nation economy
will shrink 0.6 percent this year before growing 1.1 percent in
2014. Today’s data on services and factory output followed a
June 18 report showing that European car sales fell to a 20-year
low in May after unemployment in the euro area reached a record
high of 12.2 percent in April.  Domestic Demand  “High unemployment and still-weakening housing markets
will also keep domestic demand in many euro-zone countries
subdued,” Van Vliet said. “At the same time, the recent
weakness in the Chinese manufacturing PMI is a reminder that a
strong euro-zone export recovery is unlikely either.”  A Chinese manufacturing  Purchasing Managers ’ Index fell to
48.3 in June from 49.2 in May, according to a preliminary
reading released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics. Last month’s reading was the first below 50 since
October. The latest data on European exports shows that
shipments decreased a seasonally adjusted 0.8 percent in April,
the first decline in four months.  Some European companies are dealing with weaker demand by
cutting costs. Germany’s  Daimler AG (DAI)  Chief Executive Officer
 Dieter Zetsche  said on June 12 earnings have improved in the
second quarter as new models win buyers and the Mercedes-Benz
car unit reduces costs faster than anticipated.  While the Frankfurt-based ECB left its benchmark rate
at a record low of 0.5 percent on June 6, policy makers stand 
ready to act further if economic conditions worsen, ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said on June 18. Recent economic survey
data are showing “some improvement, but from low levels,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  