-- Euro Chiefs Recommit to Crisis Plan as Talks Turn to Bank Policy
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-06-21T11:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/euro-chiefs-recommit-to-crisis-strategy-as-global-markets-plunge.html
European governments recommitted to
their recipe for fixing the economy, dismissing concerns that
plummeting global markets would spark renewed turmoil in the
crisis-hit  euro zone .  Finance ministers demanded  Greece  meet targets for cutting
public payrolls, ruled out easier bailout terms for Cyprus and
set tight conditions on future aid for distressed banks, as
northern countries led by  Germany  sought to limit the bill for
fighting the more than three-year crisis.  Greece faces “no problem on the premise that we reach a
final agreement on the review in July,” Dutch Finance Minister
Jeroen Dijsselbloem told reporters late yesterday after chairing
a euro-area meeting in Luxembourg. “The program is fully
financed for at least another year.”  Finance chiefs from the 27-member European Union gathered
today to complete a deal on rules for handling failing banks,
talks that may extend into the early-morning hours.  Europe  sent the stay-the-course message after the U.S.
Federal Reserve said it’s prepared to phase out its
unprecedented monetary stimulus. That raised the specter of the
gradual withdrawal of the low-cost cash that markets have
feasted on globally. Klaus Regling, head of the European
Stability Mechanism, said the euro zone has withstood six weeks
of rising global  interest rates , with few signs of investors
dumping the bonds of struggling countries to take refuge in
German securities.  Bonds throughout Europe “moved more or less the same as
the Netherlands and Germany,” Regling said. “We are moving
here together. We are moving considerably less than the  United
States .”  Spanish Bonds  European markets didn’t behave that way yesterday. As
German bonds fell, others fell further. Spain’s extra 10-year
borrowing cost over German levels rose 21 basis points to 319
basis points, the highest in two months. Portugal’s 10-year
yields jumped 34 basis points to 6.41 percent.  With Germany refusing to make new crisis-management
concessions before national elections in September, the finance
officials kept up the pressure on Greece to deliver on economic
reforms in exchange for the next set of loans, due in July.  “There are points of concern that have to be watched,”
French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said. “The Greek
program is proceeding. We’re not developing catastrophic
scenarios.”  Greece was thrown into political turmoil after two parties
in the national unity coalition objected to Prime Minister
Antonis Samaras’s decision to shut the state-owned broadcaster
in order to meet job-cut targets imposed by creditors.  As Samaras struggled to keep the coalition together, his
finance minister, Yannis Stournaras, predicted the tensions will
pass.  ‘Turbulence’  “It’s not a political crisis, it’s turbulence,”
Stournaras told reporters in Luxembourg.  Only three months after the 10 billion-euro Cypriot program
was hashed out at late-night meetings on back-to-back weekends,
President Nicos Anastasiades appeal for more lenient terms was
rebuffed.  “There is no viable alternative to implementing the
strategy 100 percent,” European Central Bank Executive Board
member Joerg Asmussen said. Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc
Frieden called it “the best solution for Cyprus.”  European officials continued to look at Ireland as the
first crisis-management success story, saying it’s making
progress toward being weaned off official aid. Ireland aims to
return to full market financing at the end of the year.  Market Borrowing  Both Ireland and  Portugal , seeking a program exit in early
2014, will win extra time to pay back their aid loans under a
previously announced decision to be signed off today,
Dijsselbloem said. He dangled unspecified “further measures of
support” to smooth their way back to normal market borrowing.  The two countries could take up precautionary credit lines
from the euro rescue fund, which would make them eligible to
benefit from the “unlimited” bond-buying backstop announced
last year by the ECB and not yet used.  The alliance of AAA rated creditors -- Germany, the
Netherlands and  Finland  -- took steps to limit their liability
for bank rescues in the future, insisting that their taxpayers’
money would be put up only as a last resort.  When the direct-recapitalization mechanism was first
floated a year ago, European officials said it would spare
governments from rescuing their own troubled banks, halting a
vicious cycle that turned bank debt into sovereign debt.  Under plans discussed yesterday, however, the first
responders to a bank failure would be the bank’s creditors and
national government. Once the euro rescue fund gets involved,
the national government would still bear at least 20 percent of
the costs.  Problem Banks  The German approach came closer to the treatment of Cyprus,
where bank depositors were taxed, than to the path taken by
Ireland,  Spain  and the Netherlands.  The rescue fund’s overall exposure to problem banks
throughout Europe at 60 billion euros out of its total 500
billion euros, the finance ministers said. Direct aid wouldn’t
flow until the ECB starts operating as a bank supervisor,
possibly not until late 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Luxembourg at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  