-- Euro-Area Consumer Confidence Rises to Highest in 22 Months
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-06-20T15:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/euro-area-consumer-confidence-rises-to-highest-in-22-months.html
Euro-area  consumer confidence 
increased more than economists forecast in June, jumping to the
highest in 22 months and adding to signs the economy is starting
to emerge from a record-long recession.  An index of household confidence in the 17-nation euro zone
rose to minus 18.8 this month from minus 21.9 in May, the
European Commission in Brussels said today. Economists had
forecast an increase to minus 21.5, according to the median of
26 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . It was the seventh
consecutive increase and the biggest nominal jump since July
2010.  The euro area’s 18-month recession will end in the second
quarter as the economy stagnates before growing 0.1 percent in
the following three months, according to a separate Bloomberg
survey of economists. Still, the  European Central Bank  lowered
its outlook for currency bloc this month and now forecasts a 0.6
percent contraction this year before growth of 1.1 percent in
2014.  “Despite June’s very decent increase, confidence is still
limited compared to long-term norms,” said  Howard Archer , chief
U.K. and European economist at IHS Global Insight in  London .
“Euro-zone consumers continue to largely face high and rising
unemployment, generally muted wage growth and tight fiscal
policy.”  Euro-area unemployment has reached a record 12.2 percent,
putting a damper on  consumer spending . European car sales fell
to a 20-year low in May and retail sales dropped for a third
month in April, recent data showed.  Central Bank  Inflation has been below the ECB’s 2 percent ceiling since
February. The Frankfurt-based central bank, which left its
benchmark rate at a record low of 0.5 percent on June 6, sees
inflation at 1.4 percent this year and 1.3 percent in 2014.  The economic climate will remain “quite tough” in Europe
this year,  Royal Ahold NV (AH)  Chief Executive Officer  Dick Boer  said
on June 4 after the company announced it will quadruple a share
buyback. The Dutch owner of the Stop & Shop supermarket chain
will continue to focus both on returning cash to shareholders
and growth, Boer said on a conference call.  At the same time, euro-area services and factory output
increased more than economists forecast in June, suggesting the
economy gathered pace as the second quarter progressed. A
composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers in both
industries rose to 48.9, the highest in 15 months, London-based
Markit Economics said today.  Store revenue of  Inditex SA (ITX) , owner of Zara, rose at a
faster pace in the first five weeks of the second quarter at
constant exchange rates than total sales did in the opening
three months of the financial year, the company said on June 12.  The Brussels-based commission is scheduled to publish the
final numbers for May  consumer confidence  and the wider
indicator of euro-area economic confidence on June 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  