-- Everbright Securities Falls on IPO Investigation: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-21T07:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/everbright-securities-probed-by-china-regulator-for-tianfon-ipo.html
Everbright Securities Co. (601788)  fell to
the lowest in more than six months in  Shanghai  after the
brokerage said it’s being investigated by  China ’s securities
regulator for its work on a proposed initial public offering.  The stock dropped 6 percent 10.96  yuan , the lowest close
since Dec. 6. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost 0.5 percent.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission told Everbright
Securities that it began a probe of the company in relation to
Henan Tianfon Energy-Saving Panel Science & Technology Co.’s
planned IPO, the brokerage said yesterday. The CSRC last month
censured Ping An Securities Co., Minsheng Securities Co. and
Nanjing Securities Co. amid a crackdown on brokerages for
inadequate due diligence on listings.  “There will be a short-term impact from the CSRC
investigation on the stock,” said Song Jian, an analyst at
China Minzu Securities Co. in Beijing, who has an “add” rating
on the stock. “Everbright Securities has already underperformed
its peers this year so the downside to its share price may be
limited.”  Everbright Securities, based in Shanghai, has dropped 22
percent this year.  Citic Securities Co. (600030) , the country’s largest
brokerage by market value, has declined 17 percent while  Haitong
Securities Co. (600837) , the second biggest, has gained 0.2 percent.  The CSRC, which stopped IPO approvals in October as China’s
benchmark stock index fell more than 5 percent in the first
three quarters of 2012, will restart listings after rules aimed
at boosting investor protection go into effect, a CSRC official
with knowledge of the matter said this week.  Ordered Audits  The regulator in December ordered companies planning IPOs
and their advisers to audit their offering documents as the
number of applications for listings swelled to more than 800.  More than 600 companies have submitted their self audits to
the regulator, from which the CSRC randomly selected 40
applications for its own review. Tianfon was among those 40
companies picked, according the regulator.  The CSRC fined Ping An Securities last month for failed due
diligence in the 2011 IPO of Wanfu Biotechnology Hunan
Agricultural Development Co. and suspended the broker’s
underwriting license for three months. Minsheng Securities was
fined and warned for the same reason and Nanjing Securities was
censured. Bankers at all three firms received lifetime bans from
the securities industry for their roles in the cases.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Aipeng Soo in
Beijing at   asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  