-- Finmeccanica May Build 90-Seat Turboprop Without EADS Help
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-06-20T14:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/finmeccanica-may-build-90-seat-turboprop-without-eads-partner.html
Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  would consider
building a 90-seat turboprop without its traditional partner
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. as it seeks to deepen
its involvement in regional planemaking.  “If EADS is not interested in developing the airplane with
us we will find alternatives,” Giuseppe Giordo, chief executive
officer of Rome-based Finmeccanica’s airplane unit Alenia
Aermacchi said today in an interview at the  Paris Air Show .
Giordo declined say whether Alenia would go it alone or seek a
partner.  High fuel costs have spurred airline demand to replace jets
with more efficient turboprops helping drive the backlog at ATR,
the Finmeccanica joint venture with EADS, to a record $6.5
billion. ATR, whose planes now range in size from 48 to 70
seats, has considered building on that sales success with a
larger model and completed initial designs of a 90-seater.  “There is huge market potential for a turboprop bigger
than the ATR 72,” Giordo said, referring to the largest model
the joint venture sells. “I hope that before the end of this
year we will have a decision to launch the 90-seater.”  Strategically Important  Alenia, whose parent Finmeccanica is weighed down by losses
and more than 4 billion euros ($5.29 billion) in debt, considers
the program strategically important and would seek third-party
financing to proceed with development, Giordo said.  “Airbus is, together with its partners, studying the
developments in the regional market,” Kiran Rao, executive vice
president for strategy and marketing at Airbus, said in e-mail
comments. “The most likely outcome will be a new generation of
turboprops with increased size, greater comfort and significant
improvement in efficiency.”  Filippo Bagnato, chief executive of ATR, as Toulouse,
France-based Avions de Transport Regional is known, has said
previously he estimates such a plane would cost about $2 billion
to develop. The goal is to introduce the plane into service
around 2018 or 2019, he said today at the Paris expo.  Giordo said that Alenia is starting to prepare research and
production facilities, as well as engineering staff, to work on
a the new plan it calls the New Generation Turboprop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  