-- First Quantum Seeks Lower Costs at Quicker Cobre Panama Project
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-06-20T16:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/first-quantum-seeks-lower-costs-at-quicker-cobre-panama-project.html
First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) , a
Vancouver-based copper producer, intends to complete its Cobre
Panama copper project faster than first planned and at lower
cost, according to the company’s operations director.  “There will be a number of significant changes,” Matt
Pascall said today in an interview in Lusaka, the capital of
 Zambia . “I’m sure in the end it will be done more quickly than
it would have been and also at a lower cost.”  First Quantum announced plans to redesign the Cobre Panama
plant and cut its workforce in half, Chief Executive Officer
Philip Pascall said at the annual general meeting in May. The
company acquired the project from Inmet Mining Corp. in a C$5
billion ($4.8 billion) hostile takeover earlier this year. The
asset will help First Quantum become the world’s fifth-largest
copper producer.  “We’ve still got to go through the processes of seeing
what the cost implications are, what the cost benefits are, what
we can save,” Pascall said. The company “is really just
redoing a lot of the conceptual work. It’s a relook at the
project.”  First Quantum will probably announce a cost estimate for
Cobre Panama between August and November this year, CEO Pascall
said at the AGM.  The company is looking to increase the mine lives of other
Inmet projects that it acquired earlier this year, Operations
Director Pascall said.  “Our view is that hopefully we can expand those
operations,” he said. “They’re well run and we’d like to see
them run longer and bigger. It’s up to our exploration guys to
get in there and do their work.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  