-- Fischer Successor to Be Named by End-June, Israeli Official Says
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2013-06-20T12:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/fischer-successor-to-be-named-by-end-june-israeli-official-says.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu will appoint a successor to Bank of  Israel  Governor
Stanley Fischer before he leaves office June 30, an official in
the premier’s office said, amid reports he is casting abroad for
a candidate.  Netanyahu doesn’t have concerns about the transition
process because the leadership at the bank is strong and
professional, the official said, speaking on condition of
anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to discuss the
confidential selection process.  Deputy Governor Karnit Flug is being seriously considered,
as are other candidates, he said.  Then-Prime Minister Ariel Sharon stunned Israel eight years
ago when he announced he had persuaded Fischer, a former No. 2
official at the International Monetary Fund, to become Israel’s
central bank governor. Israeli newspapers say Netanyahu is
looking again for an internationally known economist to fill the
job. Names that have been floated include Ben S. Bernanke,
Martin Eichenbaum, Elhanan Helpman and Laurence Meyer.  Under Israeli law, Flug, Fischer’s hand-picked deputy, will
become acting governor upon his departure, unless Netanyahu
installs a replacement by then.  Fischer’s own appointment involved such a move. In 2005,
deputy governor Meir Sokoler led the central bank temporarily
while a screening committee reviewed Fischer’s candidacy.  “It’s possible he may go for a temporary or acting
appointment,” said Yaniv Pagot, chief strategist at Ramat Gan,
Israel-based Ayalon Group Ltd. “If he finds someone else
afterward, then he can make the switch, and if not, he can then
make the appointment permanent. Unless he surprises everyone and
manages at the last minute to find a star.”  Fischer announced in January that he would step down mid-term.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  