-- FLSmidth Drops on Concerns Over China Slowdown: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-06-20T10:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/flsmidth-drops-on-concerns-over-china-slowdown-copenhagen-mover.html
FLSmidth & Co. A/S (FLS) , the maker of
mining equipment, fell to the lowest price in more than three
years in Copenhagen after data showed manufacturing in  China ,
the world’s biggest consumer of metals, is shrinking.  FLSmidth fell as much as 2.5 percent to 253.40 kroner, the
lowest since October 2009. The stock also traded at that price
at 11:54 a.m. in the Danish capital with volume at 60 percent of
the three-month daily average.  China’s June  Purchasing Managers’ Index (EC11FLAS)  fell to 48.3,
according to preliminary numbers released today by HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics. That compares with the 49.1 median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 15 economists. May’s
final reading of 49.2 was the first below 50 since October,
indicating contraction. The contraction will pressure commodity
prices and make FLSmidth’s clients more cautious, according to
Nordea Private Banking.  “We  recommend  investors avoid FLSmidth as we fear that
mining companies will continue to scale down investments, which
will hurt FLSmidth’s order book,” Nordea stock analysts, led by
Copenhagen-based Michael Borre, said in a note today.  Last month, FLSmidth reported a first-quarter net income of
37 million kroner ($6.5 million), missing the average analyst
estimate of 231 million kroner. “Market uncertainty and
customer hesitation have increased in recent months,” the
company said then.  Separately, FLSmidth today said that OppenheimerFunds Inc.,
one of its biggest investors, has reduced its stake to 4.26
percent. Last July, FLSmidth said the New York-based fund owned
5.16 percent after increasing its holding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  