-- Ford’s CEO Calls Japan Currency Manipulator Amid Weaker Yen
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-20T20:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/ford-ceo-says-japan-is-currency-manipulator-most-closed-market.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  Chief Executive
Officer  Alan Mulally  called Japan a currency manipulator that’s
giving local exporters an unfair edge as the weaker yen
threatens to undermine U.S. automakers’ profits.  Japan is “absolutely” manipulating its currency, the CEO
of the second-biggest U.S. automaker said in a Bloomberg TV
interview today. “With the currency manipulation, we just have
to get back to the place where the currencies are set by the
markets and the free trade agreements really are free trade
agreements.”  Mulally, who’s expressed concerns about the yen throughout
this year, illustrates how the currency-led boon for Japanese
exporters is drawing mounting international criticism.  Bank of
Korea  Governor Kim Choong Soo this week urged Asian countries to
work together to defend themselves against the side-effects of
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s reflation campaign.  “Mulally is one of the harshest critics on the yen,” said
 John Zeng , a shanghai-based analyst at LMC automotive. “A
weaker yen puts them in a disadvantageous position.”  The yen has fallen against every major currency since mid-November, including 18 percent versus the dollar, bolstering the
value of overseas sales at Japanese exporters from  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  to  Sony Corp. (6758)  Japan’s benchmark Topix index last month
climbed to the highest in almost five years and exports in Japan
in May increased the most since 2010.  Ford fell 3.3 percent to $14.82 at the close in  New York .
The shares have gained 14 percent this year through yesterday,
compared with an 11 percent climb for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  ‘Closed’ Japan  Mulally reiterated his concerns that  Japan  is a closed
market for U.S. automakers, who’ve hired lobbyists to oppose
Japan’s bid to join negotiations aimed at creating the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a regional free-trade agreement. Japanese
carmakers account for more than 90 percent of sales in their
home market.  “It’s just the most closed market in the world,” Mulally
said today.  Representative  Sander Levin  of  Michigan , joined by 46 other
Democrats, said in a letter to President  Barack Obama  in March
that the automobile import market in Japan is unfairly closed to
U.S.-made vehicles, and letting the nation join the regional
trade deal would hurt rather than help address that imbalance.  It’s “not true” that Japan is a closed market, Sho Minekawa, a senior managing officer at Honda Motor Co., said at
a company event in  Tokyo  today when asked about foreign
carmakers’ criticism that Japan is a closed market.  Nissan Prices  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  CEO  Carlos Ghosn  has countered criticism
over the yen, saying such calls ignore history. Ghosn has said
as recently as late March that the yen is only “neutral” when
it trades at 100 to the dollar and that the Japanese currency
had averaged at about 110 in the past 10 to 15 years.  Among the first signs of a Japanese carmaker taking
advantage of the yen, Nissan has cut prices on seven models and
boosted incentives, helping its U.S. sales surge 25 percent in
May, triple the industrywide gain. Sales of its Altima family
sedan, which had a $580 price cut, jumped 41 percent, surpassing
Ford’s Fusion and closing in on Honda’s Accord.  In  China , where Mulally is currently visiting to open a
factory in the southeastern city of Nanchang at one of Ford’s
Chinese partners, the CEO said the U.S. automaker’s sales have
been rising faster than “we all expected.” He signaled China
may eventually become an export hub for Ford, though the
company’s current focus is on meeting Chinese demand.  China Sales  “I think it’s just a matter of time,” he said when asked
about Ford exporting from China. “Over time, all of our
facilities are positioned so we can support all the markets
around the world from any location.”  Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford is on track for its $4.9
billion spending plan in China and is thinking of the next phase
of investment in the country, Mulally said. The automaker aims
to take 6 percent of China’s market by 2015, David Schoch,
Ford’s group vice president who runs Asia Pacific operations,
said in April.  On the Lincoln, Mulally said he expects Chinese consumers
to take to the luxury brand when it goes on sale in the country
next year given its history and design.  “China is a terrific market both for the volume market but
also for the luxury market,” he said. “The Chinese have
wonderful taste.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net ;
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  