-- Ford Chief Mulally Opens $300 Million China Factory
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-20T13:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/ford-ceo-mulally-opens-300-million-china-plant-as-sales-surge.html
(Corrects name of SUV model in the fifth paragraph.)  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Chinese commercial-vehicle making partner opened a $300 million assembly plant,
more than doubling its production capacity in the world’s
biggest auto market.  Jiangling Motors (200550)  Corp., which counts Ford as its second-biggest shareholder, opened the JMC Xiaolan plant that adds
300,000 vehicles in annual capacity to the existing 245,000
units, Ford said in a statement today. The factory will be used
to make both Ford- and JMC-branded vehicles.  Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford is investing $4.9 billion in
 China  to try to catch up with  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen
AG. (VOW)  While behind GM in China, Ford is growing at a faster pace
and the second-biggest U.S. carmaker plans to begin sales of its
Lincoln luxury cars in China next year.  “Ford’s expansion in China this year exceeded our
expectation,” said  John Zeng , Shanghai-based managing director
at LMC Automotive. “Ford holds all the aces in China this year
as its new products are well accepted by Chinese buyers.”  The company is the fastest growing major foreign automaker
in China this year with vehicle sales surging 48 percent in the
first five months, spurred by demand for its EcoSport and Kuga
sport-utility vehicles.  To further widen its product lineup, Ford said it will
bring two new global products through Jiangling Motors. It plans
to make a new Ford commercial vehicle and new Ford SUV, Ford
said.  Ford and Jiangling Motors also announced plans to build an
engine plant with initial annual capacity of 200,000 units.  Jiangling, which began making Transit vans in 1997, sold
94,208 vehicles in the first five months, 7.6 percent more than
a year earlier, according to the company.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Tian Ying in
Beijing at   ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  