-- Hungary’s CDS Jumps Most in Three Years on Fed: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-06-20T15:39:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/forint-dives-as-hungary-bond-yields-jump-on-fed-budapest-mover.html
Hungary ’s cost of protecting against
default soared the most in three years, bond yields jumped and
the forint plunged as the U.S. Federal Reserve said it may phase
out stimulus that has stoked a global debt rally.  The cost of insuring Hungary’s debt with credit-default
swaps jumped 44 basis points to 352, the biggest advance in
percentage terms since June 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Yields on benchmark 10-year  government bonds  jumped
28 basis points, or 0.28 percentage point, to 6.24 percent at
5:18 p.m. in Budapest, the highest since June 11. Hungary’s
currency depreciated 1.3 percent to 298.5 per euro.  Emerging-market assets plummeted after Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said the Fed may start reducing bond purchases this
year and halt the program around mid-2014 as long as the world’s
largest economy performs in line with its projections. Hungary’s
Monetary Council, which cut its main rate to a record 4.5
percent by last month, is “ready to act” if the financial
market environment was to “fundamentally reverse,” newspaper
 Napi Gazdasag  reported, citing policy maker Janos Cinkotai.  “Investors are reducing positions across  emerging
markets ,” Andras Hont, a fixed income and currency trader at
Solar Capital Markets Zrt., said by phone from Budapest today.
“Rising developed-market yields are reducing the premium on
Hungarian assets, that’s what is hurting Hungarian bonds.”  The forint extended its three-day decline to 2.6 percent,
the biggest loss among emerging-market currencies outside  Latin
America . The benchmark BUX stock  index  slid 1.5 percent,
extending its four-day slump to 4.1 percent.  Financial Stability  Cinkotai cited two 50 basis-point interest-rate increases
in 2011 in response to market turbulence as an example that
policy makers can protect the country’s financial stability,
according to the Napi Gazdasag interview. The central bank
didn’t immediately respond to e-mailed questions from  Bloomberg
News  asking for further comment.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank is set to cut its benchmark rate by
a further 25 basis points on June 25, according to all 15
analysts in a Bloomberg  survey .  Hungary’s 10-year yields fell to a record 4.93 percent on
May 16 as the central bank eased monetary policy and as Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government took steps to keep the  budget
deficit  below the European Union’s 3 percent of gross domestic
product limit. EU finance ministers meet this week to discuss
the European Commission’s recommendation to end a budget
monitoring procedure against Hungary for the first time since
the formerly communist nation joined the bloc in 2004.  Reducing Vulnerability  The budget measures, which reduced the budget shortfall to
1.9 percent of output last year from 4.3 percent in 2010, have
helped reduce Hungary’s vulnerability to market shocks,  Daniel Bebesy , who helps manage who helps manage $1.5 billion at
Budapest Fund Management, said by phone today.  The Cabinet plans to raise taxes on financial transactions
and phone calls to ensure the deficit remains below 3 percent,
Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga  said on June 17.  “The tax increases and austerity measures ensure that the
prospect of a default doesn’t arise, the government is doing
everything to avoid that,” Solar Capital’s Hont said. “The
economic fundamentals are fine from that point of view.”  Hungary’s Debt Management Agency raised a planned 50
billion forint ($220 million) in 12-month Treasury bills at an
auction today, according to  data  from the agency on Bloomberg.
The average yield was 4.56 percent, the highest since March and
up 40 basis points from the last sale on June 6, the data
showed.  “Volatility will probably remain high in coming months,”
Sandor Jobbagy, a Budapest-based economist at CIB Bank Zrt., a
unit of  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , wrote by e-mail today. “That won’t
necessarily mean continuous weakening in Hungarian assets
though. If the Fed can manage expectations well, then there
won’t be any panic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  