-- FTC Chief Ramirez Calls on Agency to Probe Patent Trolls
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-06-20T17:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/ftc-chief-ramirez-calls-on-agency-to-probe-patent-trolls.html
U.S. Federal Trade Commission
Chairwoman Edith Ramirez said the agency should conduct a broad
probe of patent-assertion entities, known as “patent trolls”
to those who accuse them of abusing the system.  Ramirez today said she would like to see a full-fledged
inquiry to determine whether the entities’ activities hamper or
encourage innovation and competition. President  Barack Obama 
earlier this month announced a crackdown on patent litigation in
an effort to protect technology, finance and retail companies
from lawsuits and demands for fees.  The crackdown includes five executive actions and seven
recommendations that require congressional action. A White House
commission report said more than 100,000 companies were
threatened with infringement last year by patent-assertion
entities, whose sole business is to obtain patents and use them
to extract royalties from other businesses.  The entities are “driving the increase in patent
litigation and targeting firms in a growing slice of the
economy,” Ramirez said today at a workshop sponsored by the
Washington-based American Antitrust Institute and the Computer
and Communications Industry Association, a trade group whose
members include  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  “The costs to
consumers from PAE activity appear increasingly tangible and
direct.”  Growing Drain  Abusive patent lawsuits are a growing drain on companies
and the courts, though not all businesses that own patents
without making products are “trolls,” according to a report
released June 4 by the White House Council of Economic Advisers,
the National Economic Council and the Office of Science and
Technology Policy.  The FTC and the antitrust division of the U.S. Justice
Department conducted a joint workshop on patent assertion
entities in December.  Ramirez said today that antitrust enforcers “have a role
to play in advancing a greater understanding of the impact of
PAE activity and using our enforcement authority, where
appropriate, to curb anticompetitive and deceptive conduct.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  