-- Futures Lobbyists in U.S., Europe Combine to Address Rules
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-06-20T15:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/futures-lobby-groups-in-u-s-europe-to-combine-to-address-rules.html
The futures industry lobbying
organizations based in the U.S. and  Europe  are combining to
address financial regulation on a global scale, the groups said
in a statement.  The Futures Industry Association, based in  Washington , will
merge with the London-based Futures & Options Association to
create FIA Global, they said in a joint statement today. The
groups’ members include the world’s largest banks such as
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Deutsche Bank AG
and Barclays Plc.  The majority of commissioners at the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission have signaled they want to delay final action
on how new derivatives rules created by the Dodd-Frank Act of
2010 apply to foreign banks and the overseas affiliates of U.S.
banks and hedge funds. CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  has insisted
the agency should take its final vote on the guidance by July
12, when the current deadline expires.  Lawmakers in the U.S. House of Representatives last week
passed legislation that would curb the CTFC’s authority to
oversee the $633 trillion global swaps market. While the bill is
not expected to be introduced in the Senate, the House vote
could increase pressure on Gensler to agree to a delay.  Market ‘Fragmentation’  “This new affiliation will address a major industry
concern -- the fragmentation of derivatives markets along
jurisdictional lines,” Walt Lukken, chief executive officer of
the FIA, said in the statement.  The international reach of CFTC swap-trading requirements
has been one of the most controversial elements of Dodd-Frank.
The CFTC became the predominant U.S. regulator of swaps under
the law, while the Securities and Exchange Commission was
assigned to write rules for equity and some credit-default
swaps.  The European Union is seeking an agreement with the U.S.
that its banks can be exempted from the CFTC’s rules because it
says EU standards are equally rigorous. Overseas regulators have
called for the CFTC to broaden its use of such “substituted
compliance,” which was also incorporated into the SEC’s
proposed rule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 