-- Germany Said to Seek Cyprus-Style Wipeouts in ESM Bank Aid Rules
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2013-06-20T16:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/germany-said-to-seek-cyprus-style-wipeouts-in-esm-bank-aid-rules.html
Germany is leading a push for all
bank creditors except insured depositors to take losses before
the euro area’s firewall fund could provide direct aid to
troubled financial institutions, according to two European
officials.  Euro-area finance ministers meeting in Luxembourg today are
battling over what losses to require for private-sector
creditors, particularly while the European Union sets up broader
rules on how to restructure failing banks. The ministers are
trying to agree on an outline for how banks can tap the 500
billion-euro ($660 billion) European Stability Mechanism without
damaging their nation’s balance sheets.  Germany,  Finland  and the Netherlands want to require senior
creditors to take losses before ESM aid could be considered,
according to the two officials. This contrasts with the European
Commission’s view that only junior bondholders and shareholders
should be written down before state-funded restructuring can
begin.  If the German effort is successful, it would mean that
future bank bailouts within the currency zone would look more
like the rescue terms for Cyprus, rather than the path taken by
Ireland, Spain and the Netherlands. The debate shows that euro-area ministers remain divided over how to break the link between
banking-sector and sovereign-debt struggles a year after they
offered the prospect of direct ESM aid to calm market fears.  ‘Building Blocks’  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said today that
the ESM direct-aid tool won’t be available until other elements
of the EU’s banking union strategy are fully in place. “As
regards direct bank recapitalization, all building blocks of the
banking union must be in place,” Schaeuble told reporters. With
French support,  Germany  now has pushed to delay the bank aid
rules until the EU finishes work on bank resolution and recovery
legislation.  Schaeuble also said the bloc will require strict conditions
on nations that seek aid to support troubled lenders. “One
can’t just pump money into troubled banks without that being
accompanied by reforms,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Luxembourg at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Radoslav Tomek in Luxembourg at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  