-- Modeler Sees German Flood Costs as High as $7.7 Billion
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2013-06-20T01:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/german-flood-costs-seen-as-high-as-7-7-billion-modeler-says.html
The worst flooding in central Europe
since 2002 could cost insurers as much as 5.8 billion euros
($7.7 billion) in claims from  Germany , catastrophe modeler  AIR
Worldwide  said.  Economic losses will be “much higher,” the company said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. Insured losses in Germany
will probably be at least 4 billion euros, AIR said.  Triggered by heavy rain, the floods disrupted road and
river traffic this month and forced tens of thousands of German
residents to flee.  Allianz SE (ALV) , Europe’s biggest insurer, said it
may have 350 million euros in flood-related costs, while
 Hannover Re (HNR1)  estimated that  its losses  would be less than 200
million euros.  “An extraordinarily wet May and several days of heavy and
relentless rainfall in June have resulted in the worst flooding
to hit parts of central Europe in many years,” Yorn Tatge,
managing director of AIR, said in the statement. “Germany,
 Austria , and the Czech Republic have suffered the brunt of the
flooding, the worst since the Elbe flood of 2002.”  The floods killed at least 10 people in the Czech Republic
and at least six in Germany. Hungary could see record flood
levels, AIR said.  The Saale River in Halle, Germany, reached its highest
level in at least 400 years, AIR said. In Passau, Germany,
floodwaters hit their highest level since 1501. The Danube river
reached a record level earlier this month, officials in Budapest
said.  Germany’s federal government will sell as much as 8 billion
euros of bonds to establish a flood-recovery fund, Finance
Minster Wolfgang Schaeuble said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chaykowski in San Francisco at 
 kchaykowski2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  