-- German Stocks Drop as Bernanke Outlines Stimulus Paring
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-06-20T08:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/german-stocks-drop-as-bernanke-outlines-stimulus-paring.html
German stocks  declined for a second
day, as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
central bank may reduce asset purchases this year as the world’s
biggest economy improves.  Allianz SE lost 2.7 percent after catastrophe modeler AIR
Worldwide said recent floods could cost insurers as much as 5.8
billion euros ($7.7 billion) in claims from  Germany . Talanx AG
dropped 3.3 percent as Berenberg Bank downgraded its rating on
the shares. Commerzbank AG and Deutsche Bank AG, the country’s
biggest lenders, each lost more than 1 percent.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  slid 2 percent to 8,036.67 at 9:55 a.m. in
 Frankfurt . The equity benchmark is headed for a third week of
losses, which would be the longest streak of weekly declines
since April. The gauge is still on track for its fourth
consecutive quarterly advance. The broader HDAX Index fell 1.9
percent today.  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the DAX was 45 percent higher than the average of the past 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Fed will probably reduce the pace of stimulus measures
later in 2013 and stop bond purchases around mid-2014 as long as
the  U.S. economy  performs in line with the central bank’s
projections, Bernanke told reporters yesterday in  Washington 
after a two-day meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee .  The Fed said it will keep buying bonds at a pace of $85
billion a month, and repeated that it’s prepared to increase or
reduce purchases depending on the outlook for the job market and
inflation.  U.S. Data  In the U.S., sales of existing homes climbed 0.6 percent in
May to a 5 million annualized rate, according to the  median
forecast  of economists surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of data from
the National Association of Realtors today. A separate report
may show jobless claims rose to 340,000 last week from 334,000
the period before, economists said.  Germany’s services industry expanded at the fastest pace in
four months in June, while the nation’s manufacturing industry
continued to contract.  An index of the services industry based on a survey of
 purchasing managers  rose to 51.3 this month from 49.7 in May,
London-based Markit Economics said today. That beat the median
estimate of 50 in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  A manufacturing gauge fell to 48.7 in June from 49.4 in
May, Markit said in the same report. Economists had projected a
reading of 49.9. A reading above 50 signals expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  