-- Germany Blocks Restart of Turkey Talks on Joining EU
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-06-20T14:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/germany-said-to-block-restart-of-talks-with-turkey-on-joining-eu.html
Germany  stood in the way of reviving
Turkey’s bid to join the European Union, protesting Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s crackdown on dissenters, two EU
officials said.  Germany opposed the renewed embrace of Turkey at a meeting
of representatives of the bloc’s 27 governments in Brussels
today, said the officials who asked not to be named because
they’re not authorized to speak publicly. The Dutch
representative abstained, and the other 25 countries were in
favor. Progress required unanimity.  Turkey’s chief liaison to the EU accused German Chancellor
Angela Merkel, who is running for re-election in September, of
playing politics and warned that she will meet the same fate as
 Nicolas Sarkozy , an opponent of Turkish membership who failed
last year to win a second term as French president.  “If Mrs. Merkel examines what happened to Sarkozy who
followed a similar line, it will be obvious that messing with
Turkey would not bring good,”  Egemen Bagis , the Turkish EU
negotiator, told reporters in televised remarks in the central
Anatolian city of Kayseri. “Those who are criticizing practices
in Turkey should take a close look at incidents in their own
countries.”  Even with a resumption of the entry talks after a three-year hiatus, Turkey would be a long way from getting in. Since
starting down the EU path in October 2005, Turkey has opened
 talks  in 13 of 35 EU policy areas and completed one.  Croatia ,
which began its bid on the same day as Turkey, will join the EU
next month.  Technical Questions  The German view prevailed over others, like EU Enlargement
Commissioner Stefan Fule of the  Czech Republic , who have argued
that moving Turkey further toward membership would bind the
country into an enduring process of democratic reforms. Germany
has technical questions about proceeding with Turkey, a Foreign
Ministry official said in Berlin today, asking not to be named
in line with policy.  German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said he would
favor opening talks in other policy areas that would require
Turkey to strengthen civil rights and media freedoms. In an
interview published today with the Nuernberger Nachrichten,
Westerwelle said the crackdown on protesters “sent the wrong
signals, domestically and abroad -- and to  Europe .”  The plan had been for Turkey to start talks on June 26 on
aligning its regional policies with EU norms. National
representatives may reconsider it on Monday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  