-- Germany’s Wireless Carriers Slip on 2014 Spectrum Auction Report
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-06-20T09:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/germany-s-wireless-carriers-slip-on-2014-spectrum-auction-report.html
Shares of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and other wireless carriers in Germany fell
after a report that the country’s network regulator plans to
auction a new batch of long-range wireless spectrum next year.  The Federal Network Agency will seek to allocate
frequencies in the 700-megahertz spectrum to mobile operators,
 Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung  said yesterday, citing internal
documents. Deutsche Telekom fell 2.2 percent while Telefonica
Deutschland Holding AG dropped 2.1 percent and Vodafone slipped
1.6 percent. The DAX Index slid 2 percent at 10:40 a.m. in
 Frankfurt .  The first auction of licenses to use airwaves in the so-called digital dividend range raised 4.38 billion euros ($5.8
billion) in 2010. That spectrum has been used to roll out long-term evolution, or LTE, signals in rural parts of the country.
The reported timing is earlier than expected and may strain the
finances of the smaller carriers, including  Telefonica
Deutschland Holding AG (O2D)  and Royal  KPN NV (KPN) , JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analyst Hannes Wittig said by phone.  “A 2014 date would increase the pressure on operators,”
said London-based Wittig. “Investors would probably worry most
about the financial impact on Telefonica Deutschland and KPN;
however, an earlier date could also be seen as a reason to
accelerate discussions regarding a potential merger of the two
smaller carriers.”  KPN, headquartered in  The Hague , and  Telefonica SA (TEF) , the
Madrid-based parent of Telefonica Deutschland, last year dropped
discussions about a combination of their German units. KPN’s E-Plus and Telefonica Deutschland with its O2 brand vie for the
number three spot in that market.  Dividend Cut  Additional spectrum would help carriers to offset the
increasing strain that transfers of videos and music to mobile
devices place on networks. Stefan Bloemeke, a spokesman for the
network regulator, declined to immediately comment.  KPN in 2012 cut planned dividends after spending 1.35
billion euros on wireless spectrum in its Dutch home market.
Unlike Telefonica Deutschland, which sold shares in an initial
public offering last year, KPN didn’t obtain any long-range
frequencies in  Germany  in 2010.  The amount of spectrum of around 700 MHz is similar to how
much 800 MHz spectrum that Germany sold in the 2010 auction,
Wladimir Bocquet, senior director of spectrum policy at the
wireless industry group GSMA, said in a phone interview.  Distribution Calendars  The GSMA in a report today called on European governments
to lay out clear schedules for spectrum distribution, especially
in the 700 megahertz range. The use of spectrum for mobile
services will generate 477 billion euros a year by 2023 in the
European Union’s 27 member states, compared with 269 billion
currently, Tom Phillips, the organization’s chief government and
regulatory affairs officer, said.  “Spectrum is probably the most significant thing that gave
 Europe  the lead in mobile technology two decades ago,” he said.
“And spectrum could re-energize the European mobile market if
the Europe’s governments get it right.”  The German network regulator is also working on decisions
for the future allocation of old spectrum licenses expiring in
2016, FAZ reported. Operators have called for these licenses to
be extended rather than redistributed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  