-- German Officials Oppose Retroactive ESM Bank Recapitalizations
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-06-20T15:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/german-officials-oppose-retroactive-esm-bank-recapitalizations.html
Germany ’s finance minister and a
Bundesbank board member opposed allowing nations like Ireland
and  Spain  to offload bad debts accumulated in years past to a
fund financed by all euro members.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said he doesn’t
see “great leeway” for retroactive direct bank
recapitalization through the European Stability Mechanism, the
region’s bailout fund. Bundesbank board member Andreas Dombret
said the future banking union contains an insurance mechanism
that can only cover new incidents.  “So-called legacy burdens, in other words, those risks
that have arisen under national supervisors, must, if necessary,
be shouldered by the  member states ,” Dombret said in a  speech 
in Koenigstein near  Frankfurt . “Anything else would amount to
transfers among governments” -- which are forbidden by the
currency region’s founding treaty.  Ireland is seeking the possibility of retroactive direct-bank recapitalization from the ESM once such aid becomes
available. Finance ministers are working toward a mid-year
deadline for designing how the program might work.  “I don’t think that we have great leeway for direct bank
recapitalization, once we have it one day -- quite a bit of
water will flow down the Moselle and other rivers by then --that
we can apply this retroactively,” Schaeuble said today in
Luxembourg when asked whether Ireland can hope for such relief.
“The capacity of the ESM is limited.”  Before a two-day meeting of European Union finance
ministers, Schaeuble said policy makers shouldn’t raise false
expectations.  Transfers such as retroactive recapitalizations “should
take place via national budgets and with the approval of
national parliaments, and not under the guise of a banking
union,” said Dombret. EU finance ministers should decide that
direct recapitalization through the ESM “would be allowed only
after exhausting all other means available,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  