-- Germany’s Schaeuble Says ‘Important Step’ Taken on Banking Union
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-06-20T22:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/germany-s-schaeuble-says-important-step-taken-on-banking-union.html
German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble comments on the future direct recapitalization of
banks by the European Stability Mechanism, the Single
Supervisory Mechanism for European banks, the German legislative
process for the transfer of banking supervision powers and the
domestic political situation in  Greece .  He spoke to reporters after a meeting of euro-region
finance ministers in  Luxembourg  yesterday.  On bank recapitalization and the SSM:  “We’ve taken an important step on the way to the banking
union by having reached agreement on the main points for the
future rules for the direct recapitalization of banks.”  “The main question was, and a lot remains to be done on
this point tomorrow, that the liability cascade -- bail-in, the
role of of  member states , the fact that the ESM can only be the
lender of last resort under tight conditions -- that we regulate
that very clearly, that the future resolution and restructuring
directive rules have the same content as the bail-in rules we
set for the direct bank recapitalization. We have agreed on that
in principle.”  “We must avoid direct bank recapitalization raising false
expectations. It’s nonsense if some have the expectation that
any bank that needs capital can just go to the ESM.”  “The bail-in rules of the future resolution directive will
be applied as soon as the SSM has started with bank supervision.
Before that there won’t be direct bank recapitalization.”  On  Germany ’s legislative process for the transfer of bank
supervision powers:  “Germany has to make sure that the European treaties are
adhered to. We can’t go beyond the European treaties, not even
with a generous interpretation, because the rules set by the
constitution are absolutely clear.”  On Greece:  “We all wish that doubts related to Greek domestic
political difficulties can be overcome quickly. Greece has a
difficult road to travel. Greece is traveling that road with
more determination than most had thought it possible a year ago.
It’s clear that it’s not easy for the population to do what’s
necessary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Luxembourg at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  