-- GM Surges to Top of Quality Rating With Ostrich Feathers
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s ,   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   M e g a n   D u r i s i n
-- 2013-06-20T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/gm-surges-to-top-of-quality-rating-with-ostrich-feathers.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s fight to
overtake  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  in quality began with simple things
such as relocating door-lock buttons to a more convenient
location and using ostrich feathers to dust vehicles before
painting.  “It’s a thousand little things that are done just an inch
better at a time that adds up to getting a product that’s right
at the top of the list,” Mike Hardie, director of global
quality strategy at GM, said yesterday in an interview.  J.D. Power  & Associates has asked consumers since 1987 to
detail all the problems they’ve had with their new cars or
trucks. Detroit-based GM as a corporation had the best
performance in the industry for the first time, beating the 
stalwart Toyota. Its GMC truck brand trailed only the Porsche
luxury car line. Chevrolet leapfrogged the Toyota brand. Eight
GM models had the fewest problems reported within their segment;
the next closest was Tokyo-based Honda Motor Co. with three.  The results released yesterday of the Initial Quality
Study, which surveys owners after their first three months with
their new car, are a sea change for an industry long led by
Toyota City, Japan-based Toyota. While GM’s performance was
driven by pickups and large sport-utility vehicles that have
been its bread and butter for decades, it’s joining  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC in introducing the best passenger
cars that  Detroit  has built in a generation.  “There’s been a whole culture change at GM,”  David Sargent , J.D. Power vice president of global vehicle research,
said in an interview. “They are much better now at thinking
about the consumer when they originally design the vehicle.
There was a time in the past when they figured they knew how to
design and build vehicles and the consumers would buy them.”  Toyota Dominance  Toyota is used to dominating  Westlake Village , California-based J.D. Power’s annual study. Its Lexus luxury line slipped
to No. 3 after leading all brands the two previous years. The LS
large premium car was Lexus’s only segment winner in 2013 after
the brand grabbed the most awards each of the previous four
years.  Lexus  cars and SUVs topped every segment that it competed
in just seven years ago.  “When GMC and Chevy are above Toyota and Honda,
something’s going on,” J.D. Power’s Sargent said. “If you were
to ask me the question, what corporation has the best quality in
the entire industry, the answer would be General Motors” for
the first time, he said.  GM’s new approach is evident with the Chevrolet Camaro,
which tied Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford’s Mustang in leading
the sports car segment. Designers moved the button of the
Camaro’s door lock after customers complained about its previous
location in the vehicle’s center console, Hardie said.  “People found it inconvenient because the expectation was
that they were on the door,” he said.  Ostrich Feathers  GM also looked to address previous quality surveys that
found customers complaining about the quality of vehicle paint
jobs, in particular on the Camaro. GM joined other carmakers in
using feathers from female ostriches to dust their vehicles at
the factories before they get a final coat of paint.  “We try to take extraordinary care of all our paint but
the Camaro is one that people actually tend to hand wash,”
Hardie said. “It’s something that we know about the customers,
and so we try to make sure that we have product that’s perfect
for them so as their hand washes they don’t notice any defects
anywhere.”  Improving initial quality is part of GM’s work to build
customer loyalty and retention. That bolsters the company’s
strategy to increase the company’s North American operating
margins to 10 percent by mid-decade from an average of 7.4
percent during the past three years.  GM figures that it can generate $700 million in revenue for
every additional percentage point of customer retention.  ‘Customers Are Important’  “This wasn’t something that we just did overnight; it’s
been years in the making that we recognize that our customers
are important and that we want to be a recognized leader in
initial quality and long-term reliability,” Alicia Boler-Davis,
GM vice president of global quality, said in an interview.  She’s been leading an effort to improve the customer
experience and tracking customer feedback.  “It enables us to respond very quickly when there are
issues but it also enables to take that feedback and feed it
back into the vehicle development process,” she said.  Complaints about the location of GM’s door-lock buttons,
for example, were taken to account for new vehicles such as the
 Chevrolet  Spark before it was introduced last year in the U.S.  GM’s improvements in quality come as the automaker
introduces 18 new vehicles in the U.S. this year to refresh its
showrooms after its lineup grew stale following its 2009
bankruptcy reorganization. The new product is aimed at improving
the company’s profit and U.S market share, which dipped to an
88-year-low in 2012.  Old Models  GM’s quality was helped by a lack of new products rolled
out last year, Larry Dominique, executive vice president of
Santa Monica-based auto researcher TrueCar Inc., said in a
telephone interview.  “Vehicles that have been in the market longer tend to do
better over their life,” he said.  While it’s likely GM will slip next year because of all the
new car and truck introductions it’s managing in 2013, the
improvements the company has made are likely to stick, J.D.
Power’s Sargent said.  “I think if GM’s No. 1 as a corporation next year, I’ll be
surprised and they will be surprised,” he said. “They’re not
falling below average anytime soon. It’s almost impossible to
launch at that level across a wide array of products. If they do
it -- fantastic.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Megan Durisin in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mdurisin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  