-- Goldcorp Gets Reprieve on Returning Land at Biggest Mexico Mine
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-06-20T22:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/goldcorp-gets-reprieve-on-returning-land-at-biggest-mexico-mine.html
Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the world’s biggest
producer of the metal by market value, received a reprieve from
a court order to return land at its biggest mine to Mexican
farmers.  A federal judge in Mexico halted the order from a district
court to return the land at Goldcorp’s Penasquito mine, district
court clerk Sol Angelica Ferreira Garnica said in a telephone
interview. A second group of farmers sought the suspension of
the order, she said.  Local farmers were supposed to regain today about 600
hectares (1,483 acres) within the Penasquito open-pit mine,
after the district court voided Goldcorp’s temporary lease,
according to court documents and the court clerk. Penasquito is
Mexico’s largest gold mine and the Vancouver-based mining
company’s biggest mine by revenue. The company has said the site
will be its “main driver” of gold output growth in the next
five years.  The second group of farmers who requested the suspension
argued that returning the land would halt work at the mine,
affecting their livelihood, Alfredo Phillips, Goldcorp corporate
affairs director for  Mexico , said in an interview today.
Phillips said a federal judge will hold a hearing June 27 to
discuss whether the temporary suspension should be made
permanent.  “We’re basically bystanders trying to figure out what’s
going to happen,” Phillips said by phone from Mexico City.
“But we’ll continue to pursue the best interest of workers and
communities and contractors.”  Mine Lease  Hugo Teniente, a lawyer for the group of farmers that
brought the lawsuit against Penasquito, didn’t immediately
return phone messages seeking comment. He said in an interview
yesterday from Zacatecas that the company hadn’t presented a
viable offer to renegotiate the land lease.  The district court agreed with 29 communal farmers who said
they weren’t given vital information about the value of the
land, its use for an open-pit mine or possible environmental
damage before signing the lease. Goldcorp said its excavation
isn’t damaging the environment and it has acted responsibly.  The farmers have expressed their willingness to rent the
land to Goldcorp for closer to the $5 million-a-year rate they
say neighboring communal farms have received, rather than their
30-year lease for a lump sum of about 3 million pesos
($224,000), Teniente said in an interview last month. A final
value for a lease would be determined by an expert’s evaluation,
he said.  The 23,000-acre gold mine is set to produce as much as
400,000 ounces of the precious metal this year after bringing in
$1.6 billion in revenue last year, the most of any of Goldcorp’s
mines, the company said in its 2012 annual report. The mine also
produces silver, lead and zinc.  Goldcorp fell 7.9 percent to C$24.81 at the close in
Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  