-- Gross’s Total Return Among Worst Performing Amid Selloff
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-06-21T21:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/gross-s-total-return-leads-bond-fund-losses-as-fed-sparks-slump.html
(Corrects worst performer in second paragraph.)  Bill Gross ’s $285 billion  Pimco
Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  led declines among the most-popular bond
mutual funds after the  Federal Reserve  sparked a global selloff
by indicating it may start reducing asset purchases.  Gross’s flagship, the world’s largest mutual fund, lost 1.6
percent from June 18 through June 20, the day after the Fed
outlined its exit scenario, and was down 2.8 percent for the
year, the worst of 19 U.S. total return funds with at least $2
billion in assets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
$4.2 billion Bernstein Intermediate Duration Portfolio was the
third-worst performer this year, after Pimco Total Return and a
related fund, falling 2.7 percent.  “Investors have to prepare themselves for the reality of a
world in which the Fed may not be buying bonds,”  Jeff
Tjornehoj , an analyst with Denver-based Lipper, said in a
telephone interview. “Mr. Gross has acknowledged that bonds
could be in for a rough ride.”  Bonds along with stock and commodities slumped after Fed
Chairman  Ben Bernanke  put investors on notice that the central
bank is prepared to begin phasing out one of the most aggressive
easing programs in its century-long history later this year.
Ten-year Treasury yields climbed to a 22-month high yesterday,
worsening a selloff that started last month.  Misinterpreting Bernanke  Bond-fund managers from Gross, co-founder of  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., to  Jeffrey Gundlach  at DoubleLine Capital LP have said now is a bad time to
sell bonds because the economy isn’t strong enough to sustain
higher borrowing costs. Gross, who trailed peers in 2011 after
dumping Treasuries before they rallied, said this week that
investors who are selling  U.S. government debt  now are missing
the influence of inflation on the central bank’s decisions.  “The market basically has misinterpreted the growth and
unemployment targets while leaving out inflation targets going
forward,” Gross said in an interview with  Trish Regan  and  Adam
Johnson  following Bernanke’s comments.  Bond funds worldwide have experienced withdrawals this
month after Bernanke told Congress on May 22 that the central
bank’s policy-setting board could start reducing its bond
purchases in “its next few meetings” if the U.S. employment
outlook shows sustained improvement.  Investors pulled the most ever from bond funds in the week
ended June 12, according to EPFR Global, a Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based firm. The funds lost $14.5 billion to
redemptions last week and $12.5 billion the week before, EPFR
reported.  FPA Best  Investors pulled an estimated $1.32 billion from Gross’s
fund in May, according to Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , its
first withdrawals since 2011. The $4.7 billion  Pimco Total
Return Exchange-Traded Fund (BOND)  has seen redemptions of $487 million
since May 15, according to data from San Francisco-based
IndexUniverse.  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for Pimco, said Gross wasn’t
available to comment.  The total return category includes funds that invest in
intermediate-term, investment-grade bonds -- core holdings for
investors seeking to put money into fixed income -- and excludes
municipal bond funds.  The $4.8 billion FPA New Income Fund did best this year,
gaining 0.9 percent, one of just three funds to post gains. FPA
New Income, run by Thomas Atteberry, has lost 0.2 percent since
June 18.  Gundlach’s $40 billion DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund
has lost 1 percent since June 18 and gained 0.2 percent for the
year, second-best after FPA New Income. Tad Rivelle’s $9.1
billion  TCW Total Return Bond Fund (TGLMX)  has fallen 1.1 percent since
June 18 and is down 0.1 percent in 2013.  ‘Hated’ Treasuries  Gundlach said Treasuries will outperform stocks and
commodities over the coming months because the latter two will
slump more if yields continue to rise. The reason DoubleLine
Total Return is outperforming Pimco Total Return Fund despite
their managers’ similar outlooks on Treasuries is that the
DoubleLine fund has a shorter duration and less interest rate
risk, Gundlach said.  “I think Treasuries will be the best-performing asset
class for the next few months,” Gundlach said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “The place that’s the best is the place
everybody hated.”  Bernanke said the central bank could start reducing bond
purchases later this year and end them in the middle of 2014 if
the economy continues to improve as the central bank forecasts.
The U.S. unemployment rate will fall to 6.5 percent to 6.8
percent by the end of 2014, Fed officials predicted. U.S.
central bankers in December linked changes in the benchmark
borrowing cost to the outlook for employment and prices.  ‘Hawkish’ Fed  “The FOMC was more hawkish than we had expected,” Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. economists  Jan Hatzius  and Sven Jari Stehn
wrote in a research note.  Gross and his colleagues have been skeptical about the U.S.
economy’s potential for growth since the financial crisis. Gross
said last week the Fed won’t raise rates in a “meaningful way”
for at least the next two years and investors should be cautious
when it comes to all risk assets.  As  interest rates  have climbed over the past two months,
Gross has recommended buying  U.S. Treasuries . In a Twitter
posting June 18, he recommended buying five-year Treasuries and
earlier, on June 12, he called intermediate Treasuries with
yields above 2 percent a “buy.” The “Fed’s not raising
interest rates for years,” he said.  Gross’s Calls  Gross’s call on Treasuries hasn’t worked out so far. The
10-year Treasury yield climbed six basis points to 2.41 percent
at 5 p.m. in  New York  and reached 2.47 percent earlier
yesterday, the highest since August 2011, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. Bonds decline in price as rates climb.  Gross cut the holdings of Treasuries in Pimco Total Return
Fund to 37 percent in May from 39 percent in April, a level that
was the highest since July 2010, according to data on Pimco’s
website. U.S. Treasuries have lost 2.3 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.
The Barclays U.S. Aggregate Index, among the most widely used
fixed-income benchmarks, has declined 2.3 percent this year and
has fallen 1.2 percent since June 18.  Gundlach’s DoubleLine fund had 4.8 percent of its money in
Treasuries and 15 percent in cash as of May 31. The majority of
the fund is invested in mortgage-backed securities. TCW Total
Return’s largest allocation was to mortgage-backed securities at
73 percent followed by 11 percent in U.S. Treasuries as of March
31, TCW data show.  ‘Bond King’  “When there’s volatility with credit, in the short term,
Treasuries aren’t a bad place to hide out, but from a long-term
perspective, we don’t think there’s much value at all in
Treasuries,” said Bryan Whalen, who co-manages TCW Total Return
along with Rivelle.  Pimco Total Return also has a longer duration than rival
funds. Duration is a measure of sensitivity to changes in
interest rates. Gross’s fund had a duration of 5.2 years as of
May 31, compared with 3.2 years for DoubleLine Total Return. TCW
Total Return Bond Fund’s duration was 3.3 years as of March 31.  Gross, who has been called “The Bond King” and was named
fixed-income manager of the decade in January 2010 by
Morningstar, made a bad call on Treasuries in 2011. His fund
lost an estimated $5 billion to withdrawals as he endured what
he termed “a stinker” after eliminating U.S. Treasuries
earlier in the year and missing a rally when investors rushed to
the safety of government-backed debt.  “We simply think the real economy won’t follow the path
that the Fed thinks it will because the Fed is based on a
cyclical model that’s inappropriate,” Gross said in a Bloomberg
radio interview yesterday with  Tom Keene .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  