-- IBM Atom Boy Joins Police Sketch Artist to Give Ads Novel Twist
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-06-20T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/ibm-atom-boy-joins-police-sketch-artist-to-give-ads-novel-twist.html
A police sketch artist and “the
world’s smallest film” are helping to sell soap and technology
for Dove and IBM as advertisers unleash a wave of more subtle,
intelligent and entertaining campaigns to lure a jaded public.  Unilever NV (UNA) ’s  six-minute “Dove Sketches”  film, in which a
former San Jose Police Department sketch artist helps women
realize “You are more beautiful than you think,” became the
most viewed online ad of all time in May with more than 114
million views.  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s
researchers manipulated individual atoms to depict a youngster
playing with a ball. The result is  “A Boy and His Atom,”  which
holds the record as the world’s smallest stop-motion movie.  These spots from  WPP Plc (WPP) ’s Ogilvy & Mather agency weren’t
part of a traditional TV and newspaper campaign, yet racked up
millions of views online at  YouTube . As the divide between
content and marketing narrows, a new category called native
advertising is advancing. In addition to expensive films and
mini-documentaries, it includes sponsored newsfeeds on Facebook
and  LinkedIn (LNKD) , and branded content for magazines and newspapers.  “The ad industry is getting smarter about putting the
right ads in front of the right people,” said  Jonathan Nelson ,
chief executive officer for digital at  Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC) , the
second-largest advertising company. “We’re not trying to dupe
the customer into not knowing it’s an ad, but in a world with so
much fragmentation it’s hard to get attention.”  Racing Driver  Omnicom’s BBDO ad agency this year unveiled a three-minute
film for  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  in which disguised racing driver Jeff Gordon takes a car salesman on a wild  test drive . A camera
attached to a Pepsi Max soda can inside the car filmed the
salesman’s frantic pleas as he hung on for dear life. There’s no
flashing sign urging viewers to drink Pepsi, and the film’s
effectiveness lies in the fact that more than 37 million people
have viewed it.  SapientNitro , a New York-digital advertising agency, made a
series of short films for Chrysler Group LLC’s Ram trucks,
including one about a  Texas rodeo  and the people who made it
happen. The agency also oversaw films on preparing flavored
olive oils or  pairing beer with pizza , to promote Bertucci’s
Inc. Italian restaurant chain and Samuel Adams Brewery Co.  Unique Content  “What native advertising is doing is creating content
that’s unique and distinct,” said Donald Chesnut, vice
president creative at SapientNitro. “I’ve always felt that
banner ads felt like outdoor advertising; it’s an
interruption.”  The new breed of ads is designed to be more personalized
and to avoid the traditional pitfalls of bombarding potential
customers with annoying promotions and pitches for irrelevant
products.  “Native advertising to me is another way to say non-intrusive,” said Christophe Parcot, managing director of Yahoo!
Inc. for  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa . “Everything is
about relevancy and the content has to enhance the experience.”  Yahoo’s native advertising initiatives include editorial
content created for last year’s  London  Olympics, sponsored by
Procter & Gamble and featuring a video of medalists’ mothers.  Brands are also sponsoring text on websites and in
magazines and newspapers.  BuzzFeed Inc.’s website, which publishes quirky and
humorous content, allows sponsorship for selected posts, such as
 “18 Kids Who Are Too In Touch With Their Wild Side,”  sponsored
by Jack Link’s Beef Jerky, and  “6 Places We Wish We Were At
Right Now,”  presented by Visa Inc. The  Atlantic  and Washington
Post newspaper feature  sponsored content  online and the  New York 
Times Co. is considering allowing advertisers to sponsor more
stories on its website, people with knowledge of the matter said
last month.  Newspaper Revenue  For newspapers seeking to revive sales and boost their
online presence, brand sponsoring brings new revenue.  “I’ve always been of the view that the dividing line
between editorial and advertising would blur, and that was fine
as long as you made it quite clear to the consumer,” WPP Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Sorrell  said in an interview at the
Cannes Lions advertising festival. “Publishers are going to
have to be much more flexible in their model. You’re going to
see more traditional models turning to ways to make them
commercially meaningful.”  LinkedIn Branding  LinkedIn, a social network for professionals, began
piloting brand-sponsored news feeds with a handful of companies
including Xerox Corp., General Electric Co. and BlackBerry in
February, and this has now grown to more than 30 brands, said
Joshua Graff, director of marketing solutions for Europe, Middle
East and Africa.  “This type of advertising has to be additive and resonate
with our members or it doesn’t work,” he said. “Advertisers
have to be thoughtful of the relationship they want with those
customers.”  Despite the emergence of native advertising, traditional
banners and blocks of ads aren’t about to fade away, said Miles Young, chief executive officer at  Ogilvy & Mather .  “Normal advertising isn’t dead or inappropriate, and any
effectiveness study will show you still have to have traditional
paid-for advertising,” he said. “We’ve just expanded to
material that’s fundamentally interesting to the consumer, in
which they can invest tiny bit of time and energy in finding and
retrieving.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Smith at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net  