-- Ibovespa Futures Decline as Commodities Tumble on Fed Stimulus
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-06-20T12:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/ibovespa-futures-decline-as-commodities-tumble-on-fed-stimulus.html
Ibovespa  futures  sank, a sign
Brazil’s benchmark equity measure may extend the rout that sent
it to a four-year low yesterday, as commodities fell after the
 Federal Reserve  said it may pare monetary stimulus this year.  CCX Carvao da Colombia SA , billionaire  Eike Batista ’s coal
unit, may be active after he canceled a plan to delist the
company. Iron-ore producer Vale SA may move after data showed
manufacturing is shrinking at a faster pace this month in China,
its biggest export market.  Ibovespa futures contracts expiring in August lost 1.6
percent to 47,005 at 9:11 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real weakened
0.5 percent to 2.2350 per dollar, depreciating for a fifth day.  “The Brazilian market should keep tracking the worsening
in the external outlook, and stocks will probably fall again”
today, Banco Bradesco SA’s economic team, led by Octavio de Barros, said in a note to clients.  Bonds, stocks and commodities fell around the world after
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the central bank may
start reducing bond purchases this year and end the program in
2014 should risks to the  U.S. economy  abate.  The Ibovespa yesterday plunged 3.2 percent to its lowest
since April 2009. The gauge slumped into a bear market last week
after falling more than 20 percent from this year’s peak on Jan.
3, and has since extended those losses to 24 percent.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge trades at 11.6 times
analysts’  earnings estimates  for the next four quarters,
compared with a multiple of 9.8 for the MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 8.69 billion
reais ($3.91 billion) yesterday, compared with a daily average
of 7.86 billion reais this year through June 18, according to
data  compiled  by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  