-- Linc Seeks to Expand Partnership With Billionaire Abramovich
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-06-20T08:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/linc-seeks-to-expand-partnership-with-billionaire-abramovich.html
Linc Energy Ltd. (LNC)  is looking to
expand its partnership with  Roman Abramovich , after announcing a
deal today with the billionaire owner of Chelsea Football Club
to evaluate a gas-to-liquids fuel development in  Russia .  Abramovich acquired a stake in Linc late last year, Peter Bond, chief executive officer of the Brisbane-based company,
said today in a phone interview. He declined to say how much
Abramovich purchased.  “We think there are probably a number of opportunities we
can work on together,” Bond said.  Linc and a unit of Abramovich’s Ervington Investments Ltd.
reached an agreement to cooperate on a project to produce liquid
fuels to help the Chukotka region of Russia decrease its
reliance on imports, assuming they find suitable coal resources,
Linc said today. The Australian company is developing a
technology known as underground coal gasification.  “We hope this announcement is the beginning of a long and
productive partnership, so I wouldn’t rule out other projects in
the future,”  John Mann , a spokesman for Abramovich’s Moscow-based investment company Millhouse LLC, said today in an e-mailed response to questions.  Shares of Linc  rose 2.5 percent to close at A$1.215 in
Sydney, reversing a loss of as much as 5.1 percent earlier in
the day.  Australia ’s benchmark index dropped 2.1 percent.  Shale Oil Prospects  Separately, Linc has been in discussions to find a partner
to develop shale oil prospects in central Australia. The
company, which announced earlier this year that it hired
Barclays Plc to help with the process, expects to narrow the
talks to one group in a “few weeks,” Bond said. Linc is
talking with at least four parties from outside Australia
interested in the shale oil project in the Arckaringa Basin, he
said.  Linc has said that the characteristics of its Australian
acreage “compare favorably” to the prolific Bakken and Eagle
Ford shale regions of the U.S. Any partner would follow global
energy companies including  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , ConocoPhillips,
Statoil ASA and BG Group Plc in making shale investments in
Australia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  