-- Index of Leading Indicators in U.S. Rises Less Than Forecast
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-06-20T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/index-of-leading-indicators-in-u-s-rises-less-than-forecast.html
The index of U.S. leading indicators 
rose less than projected in May, a sign the world’s largest
economy may take time to accelerate.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months increased 0.1 percent after a revised 0.8
percent gain in April that was higher than initially reported,
the New York-based group said today. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a rise of 0.2
percent.  Automatic cuts in planned federal spending that began on
March 1 are projected to weigh on economic growth this quarter.
At the same time, the rebound in housing, rising stock prices
and an improving job market mean households will sustain their
spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy.  “There are indications of a moderation in growth,”
Jonathan Basile, a U.S. economist at Credit Suisse Holdings USA
in New York, said before the report. “The slowdown will be
temporary. It’s just going to take some time for the economy to
turn up.”  Estimates of 45 economists in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from no change to an increase of 0.5 percent.  Three of the 10 indicators in the leading index contributed
to the increase, today’s report showed. The positives were stock
prices, a credit index and the interest-rate spread between the
federal funds rate and 10-year Treasury notes.  Coincident Indicators  The Conference Board’s index of coincident indicators, a
gauge of current economic activity, rose 0.2 percent after a 0.1
percent gain in the prior month.  The coincident index tracks payrolls, incomes, sales and
production -- the measures used by the National Bureau of
Economic Research to determine the beginning and end of U.S.
recessions.  The gauge of  lagging  indicators increased 0.3 percent after
a 0.1 percent gain the prior month.  “Growth will depend on continued improvement in the
housing market and an easing of consumer and business caution,
which would allow overall consumption and investment to gain
traction,” Ken Goldstein, an economist at the Conference Board,
said in a statement today.  More Americans than forecast filed applications for
unemployment benefits last week, showing progress on reducing
joblessness remains uneven amid slower growth this quarter.
Jobless claims climbed by 18,000 to 354,000 in the week
ended June 15 from a revised 336,000 the prior period, the Labor
Department reported today in Washington.  United Technologies  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , the maker of Pratt & Whitney jet
engines and Otis elevators, is among businesses seeing an
improvement. The Hartford, Connecticut-based company said growth
in housing and consumers’ growing ability to spend will help it
to cushion the fallout of across-the-board  federal budget  cuts.  “Things are looking up in the U.S. economy,” Gregory
Hayes, chief financial officer at United Technologies, said in a
June 13 conference presentation. “We’ll see a little bit of
impact” from the sequestration, he said, though “the rest of
the economy is growing so well we don’t think it’s going to have
a major impact on us.”  Federal Reserve policy makers said yesterday that they see
“downside risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor
market as having diminished since the fall,” which may mean
trimming the Fed’s monthly bond-buying sometime this year.  “If the incoming data are broadly consistent with this
forecast, the committee currently anticipates that it would be
appropriate to moderate the pace of purchases later this year,”
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said yesterday in a press conference at
the conclusion of the two-day meeting of the Federal Open Market
Committee.  The FOMC officials said for now they would maintain the $85
billion pace of monthly asset purchases and repeated that
they’re prepared to increase or reduce the pace of purchases
depending on the outlook for the job market and inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net 
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  