-- India Searches for Flood Survivors as Death Toll May Rise
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n ,   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   S a n t o s h   K u m a r
-- 2013-06-21T15:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/india-scours-valleys-for-flood-survivors-as-death-toll-may-rise.html
Flash floods triggered by torrential
rain in northern  India  have killed hundreds of people as the
military tries to evacuate 50,000 others still stranded in
mountainous areas.  The death toll has surged above 500, the Associated Press
reported, as narrow valleys in the foothills of the Himalayas,
whose shrines had lured tens of thousands of Sikh and Hindu
pilgrims, remained cut off four days after torrents surged
through rocky canyons. Helicopters continued to drop supplies in
Uttarakhand state after roads were swept away.  Home Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde will visit the region
tomorrow. Debris in many areas in Uttarakhand has yet to be
cleared. So far, about 34,000 people have been evacuated and
efforts are continuing to rescue those still stranded.  While the monsoon causes destruction across India every
year, they have moved over the country with record speed in 2013.
Where they’ve been channeled by steep-sided and deforested
valleys, the downpours have been especially violent. Homes and
mobile-phone towers have been destroyed, vehicles washed away.
Television networks have broadcast footage of buildings
collapsing into raging rivers, and village streets filled with
debris and rock.  Sonia Gandhi, the president of the ruling Congress party,
called on all national and state lawmakers in her party to
donate a month’s salary to help those affected by the floods,
Ajay Maken, a senior Congress leader, wrote on his Twitter page.  Shrine Routes  The Indian Air Force has deployed 43 aircraft, federal
Information and Broadcasting Minister Manish Tewari, told
reporters in New Delhi today. Shashidhar Reddy, vice chairman of
the National Disaster Management Authority, said yesterday that
as many as 1,000 people may have died.  The government appointed a former home secretary, V.K.
Duggal, to coordinate the response amid criticism of its
effectiveness, the Press Trust of India reported citing Shinde.  Religious shrines in Uttarakhand, which abuts India’s
border with  China  to the west of  Nepal , attract Hindu and Sikh
pilgrims each summer. With a population of about 10 million
people, the state has received almost four times the usual
rainfall so far this month, causing rivers to burst their banks.  Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said June 19 the
number of casualties is expected to rise as he announced a 10
billion rupee ($167 million) relief package.  The nation’s army and air force have deployed more than
8,000 troops, including medical teams and engineers. They are
working to clear roads blocked by landslides and construct
temporary bridges to help reach survivors.  2007 Flood  India’s monsoon, which accounts for about 70 percent of the
country’s rainfall, is vital for its agriculture-driven economy.
Rains since the monsoon began  June 1  have been 48 percent above
average, helping to ease water shortages in some regions and
promising to boost crop production in the world’s second-most
populous country.  In 2007, more than 2,800 people were killed in India by
monsoon rains during the June-September wet season. As many as
50 million people were affected by floods that destroyed 1.6
million homes in the four-month monsoon period. The United
Nations described the flood as the “worst in living memory.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Santosh Kumar in New Delhi at 
 sthakur10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  