-- Indian Bonds Drop on Rupee as Trading Resumes After Limit Breach
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-06-20T05:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/indian-bonds-drop-on-rupee-as-trading-resumes-after-limit-breach.html
Indian bond yields surged the most
in a year on concern the rupee’s tumble to a record low will
spur inflation, as trading resumed after a halt triggered by a
breach in an indicative daily band.  The rate on securities due 2022 climbed to a six-week high
as the local currency sank to an unprecedented 59.9275 per
dollar after the  Federal Reserve  signaled it will pare stimulus
measures that have fueled fund flows into  emerging markets . The
daily cap on yield fluctuations has been removed for today,
C.E.S. Azariah, Mumbai-based chief executive officer at the
Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives Association of  India ,
which sets the limit, said in a phone interview.  “The rupee’s weakness has reduced the scope for interest-rate cuts in the near term,” said Srinivasa Raghavan, the
Mumbai-based executive vice president of treasury at Dhanalaxmi
Bank Ltd. “That is driving yields higher.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent notes due June 2022 jumped 12
basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 7.59 percent as of
10:25 a.m. in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system. The rate earlier touched 7.64 percent, the highest level
since May 9.  “It is only a durable receding of inflation that will open
up the space for monetary policy to continue to address risks to
growth,” the  Reserve Bank  of India said on June 17, after
keeping the repurchase rate unchanged at 7.25 percent. “While
several measures have been taken to contain the current-account
deficit, we need to be vigilant about the global uncertainty,
the rapid shift in risk perceptions and its impact on capital
flows.”  As the rupee fell this month, foreigners have  reduced  their
holdings of Indian debt by $3.3 billion to $33.8 billion,
according to  Securities and Exchange Board of India  data. India
plans to auction 420.22 billion rupees ($7 billion) of permits
to foreign investors to buy  government securities  at an auction
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  