-- Rupee Plunge Prompts RBI Intervention; Bonds, Stocks Tumble
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s ,   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-06-20T14:42:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/india-s-rupee-plunges-to-record-as-fed-triggers-outflow-concern.html
India ’s rupee tumbled to a record,
prompting the central bank to intervene to support the currency,
after the U.S. signaled it will phase out a stimulus program.
Stocks and bonds plunged the most in at least a year.  The  Federal Reserve  said yesterday it could taper its $85
billion in monthly bond buying later this year and halt the
purchases in mid-2014 as long as the  U.S. economy  performs in
line with the central bank’s projections. The  Reserve Bank of
India  probably sold dollars around the unprecedented 59.98 level
to prevent the rupee from sliding past 60 a dollar, three
traders said, asking not to be named as the information isn’t
public.  “There will be pain due to the current-account deficit and
as leveraged investors are pulling money from Indian debt,”
said N. Srinivasan Venkatesh, Mumbai-based head of treasury at
IDBI Bank Ltd. “Policy makers will now have to put their heads
together to think about more structural, long-term fixes.”  The rupee weakened 1.4 percent to 59.5750 per dollar at the
5 p.m. close in Mumbai, after earlier dropping to an all-time
low of 59.9800, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The currency
has plunged 8.9 percent this quarter,  Asia ’s worst performance.  The S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  plunged 2.7 percent to 18,719.29, the
most since Sept. 22, 2011. Volume was 49 percent more than the
30-day average.  ICICI Bank (ICICIBC)  Ltd., the country’s biggest private
lender, fell to a two-month low. Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. sank
to a four-year low, the worst performer on the Sensex today.  The Bank of  New York  Mellon India ADR Index dropped 3.4
percent to the lowest since September at 10:32 a.m. in New York.
American depositary receipts of Wipro Ltd. fell 2.3 percent to
$7.09, the lowest since October. Infosys Ltd. ADRs retreated 2.3
percent to $39.99, while Tata Motors Ltd. declined 2.6 percent
to $23.92.  Fund Outflows  India is prepared to act to curb currency volatility,
 Raghuram Rajan , chief economic adviser at the  finance ministry ,
said in  New Delhi  today.  The Sensex has retreated 6.7 percent since Bernanke first
signaled on May 22 that policy makers may pare stimulus efforts
that has boosted flows to  emerging markets . Overseas funds have
 pulled  $3.4 billion from rupee debt this month and $402 million
from local stocks, exchange data show. That reduced this year’s
net inflows into equities to $14.7 billion, still a record for
the period, the data show. The Sensex is valued at 12.8 times
projected 12-month profits, the lowest reading since April 17.  “Valuations of the Indian market have become attractive
after the selloff,” Rajesh Cheruvu, chief investment officer at
RBS Private Banking India, said in an interview today. “If it
goes down further, you might see flows coming back to India. It
doesn’t make any sense for foreign portfolio managers, given the
currency and the market decline.”  RBI Intervention  One-month implied volatility in the rupee, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose
125 basis points, or 1.25 percentage point, to 12.62 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The rupee pared losses amid speculation the Reserve Bank of
India intervened to curb exchange-rate losses. A weaker currency
spurs inflation and worsens the  trade gap  in a nation that
imports 80 percent of its oil. India’s current-account deficit
widened to an unprecedented 5 percent of gross domestic product
in the year ended March 31, the government estimates.  The central bank will intervene in the  currency market  if
necessary to curb speculative activity, Planning Commission
Deputy Chairman  Montek Singh Ahluwalia  said in New Delhi today.
Alpana Killawala, a Mumbai-based spokeswoman for the RBI, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the rupee’s
decline.  Lenders, Metals  Three-month onshore rupee forwards dropped 2.1 percent to
60.92 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Offshore non-deliverable contracts fell 1.8 percent to 60.93.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  ICICI Bank sank 3.7 percent to 1,046.15 rupees, the lowest
close since April 12. HDFC Bank Ltd. lost 4.1 percent to 638.2
rupees.  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  sank 6.4 percent to 272.55 rupees, the
most since February 2012. Aluminum maker Hindalco Industries
Ltd. slumped 6.3 percent to 97.8 rupees. Copper maker Sterlite
Industries India Ltd. slumped 4.5 percent to 81.5 rupees, the
lowest level in more than four years.  The S&P BSE India Metal index of 11 companies plunged 4.6
percent to a four-year low, while the 11-member S&P BSE India
Realty index of 11 developers crashed 5.2 percent, the biggest
loss among the 13 sectoral gauges compiled by the BSE Ltd.  Rate Cuts  The yield on benchmark  government bonds  due 2022 surged the
most since the notes were issued a year earlier as trading
resumed after a halt triggered by a breach in an indicative
daily band. The daily cap on yield swings has been removed for
today, C.E.S. Azariah, Mumbai-based chief executive officer at
the Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives Association of
India, which sets the limit, said in a phone interview.  “The rupee’s weakness has reduced the scope for interest-rate cuts in the near term,” said Srinivasa Raghavan, the
Mumbai-based executive vice president of treasury at Dhanalaxmi
Bank Ltd. “That is driving yields higher.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent notes due June 2022 jumped 17
basis points to 7.64 percent, according to the central bank’s
trading system. The rate is the highest since May 9.  “It is only a durable receding of inflation that will open
up the space for monetary policy to continue to address risks to
growth,” the RBI said on June 17, after keeping the benchmark
rate unchanged at 7.25 percent. “While several measures have
been taken to contain the current-account deficit, we need to be
vigilant about the global uncertainty, the rapid shift in risk
perceptions and its impact on capital flows.”  Debt Auction  The shortfall in India’s  current account , the broadest
measure of trade, climbed to a record high of around 5 percent
of gross domestic product in the year ended March 31, the
government estimates.  India sold 391.71 billion rupees of debt-purchase limits to
foreign investors at an auction today, lower than the aim of
420.22 billion rupees, two people familiar with the matter say,
asking not to be identified as they aren’t authorized to speak
to the media. This is the first time since October that an
auction has been undersubscribed.  The  Reserve Bank  of India is paying local primary dealers
4.19 paise per 100 rupees to underwrite the 2023 bond at
tomorrow’s auction. The fee is the highest for a 10-year bond in
at least a year, central bank data show.  “The underwriting fee reflects perception of losses and
possibility of devolvement,” said Sandeep Bagla, Mumbai-based
executive vice president at ICICI Securities Primary Dealership
Ltd. “In a market that is as volatile as today, underwriters
would want to protect themselves from losses arising from
devolvement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  