-- India Will Take Steps to Steady Rupee as Warranted, Rajan Says
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a   a n d   S i d d h a r t h a   S i n g h
-- 2013-06-20T08:51:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/india-will-take-steps-to-steady-rupee-as-warranted-rajan-says.html
Raghuram Rajan , the top adviser in
India’s  Finance Ministry , comments on the rupee after the
currency tumbled to a record low against the dollar today.  On volatility:  “The Finance Ministry,  Reserve Bank  of India and  Securities
and Exchange Board of India  are watching developments closely
and will take action when appropriate. We are not short of
actions and instruments if and when the need arises.  “We would prefer a more stable rupee and are prepared to
take actions to reduce volatility as and when needed. We have a
range of possibilities and will take action when warranted. As
and when needed we will call upon them.  “Intervention decisions are made by the RBI and they
typically don’t flag them in public. I think they will take
actions as appropriate. The Finance Ministry is always in
contact with the RBI.  “FII debt flows have been affected by the possible rise in
U.S. long-term interest rates. This has affected the rupee as it
has affected the currencies of many other  emerging markets .
Markets may be overshooting, as they tend to do at times like
this.”  On gold imports:  “All the data we have suggest gold imports have come off
quite substantially since last month. There is no need for knee-jerk reactions. I think on the current-account side, June will
look a lot better than May.”  On inflation:  “The impact that analysts calculate is that 10 percent
depreciation in the rupee feeds into a 1 percentage point
increase in inflation. With the economy relatively weak one
could anticipate that some of that may not be passed through
into higher inflation. But, clearly, a strong rupee depreciation
has some inflationary impact and we are clearly aware of that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net ;
Siddhartha Singh in New Delhi at 
 ssingh283@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  