-- TIPS Sale Draws Below-Average Demand as Inflation Concern Fades
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-06-20T23:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/tips-sale-draws-below-average-demand-as-inflation-concern-fades.html
The U.S. auction of $7 billion in
30-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities drew the highest
 yield  in two years as gauges of traders’ expectations for
consumer prices slid to the lowest in more than a year.  Demand at yesterday’s sale fell below average as investors
balked at paying a premium to guard against the threat of
inflation. The  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing the amount bid with the amount offered, was 2.47,
versus an average 2.69 over the previous nine offerings since
the U.S. resumed selling the debt in 2010 after an eight-year
hiatus. The  Federal Reserve  under Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on
June 19 characterized the drop in consumer prices as transitory.  “There just isn’t any inflation pressure, and the markets
aren’t buying that there will be any inflation,” said Aaron Kohli, an interest-rate strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New
York, one of 21 primary dealers that are obligated to bid at
U.S. debt auctions. “There was demand, but the price adjustment
was severe. It was not an easy thing to take down.”  The auction drew a yield of 1.42 percent, the highest since
an offering in June 2011. The average forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of six of the Fed’s 21 primary dealers was for 1.423
percent. The yield at the last offering, in February, was 0.639
percent, and the record auction low was 0.479 percent in
October.  Bidder Participation  Indirect bidders , a category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, purchased 60.8 percent of the notes, the
most since 2010, compared with an average of 42.4 percent at the
past nine auctions.  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, bought 0.4 percent, the
least since 2010, versus 14 percent in February and an average
of 17.7 percent at the past nine auctions.  The yield  gap  between 30-year Treasuries and TIPS, a gauge
of traders’ expectations for consumer prices over the life of
the debt that’s called the break-even rate, shrank below 2.1
percentage points for the first time since May 31, 2012. The 10-year break-even rate touched 1.98 percentage points, the least
since January 2012.  U.S. consumer prices increased 1.4 percent for the 12
months that ended in May, the Labor Department reported on June
18, versus a 1.1 percent year-over-year gain reported in April
that was the lowest since 2010. The Fed’s target for inflation
is 2 percent.  Bernanke Outlook  Bernanke, speaking June 19 after a two-day meeting of the
 Federal Open Market Committee , said the Fed may begin dialing
down its unprecedented bond-buying this year and end it in mid-2014 if the economy achieves the Fed’s objectives. The Fed
purchases $85 billion a month of Treasuries and mortgage
securities to put downward pressure on borrowing costs.  The central bank has kept its  target rate  for overnight
lending between banks at zero to 0.25 percent since December
2008 to support the economy.  The Fed left unchanged its statement that it plans to hold
its target interest rate at almost zero as long as unemployment
remains above 6.5 percent and the outlook for inflation doesn’t
exceed 2.5 percent. Officials lowered estimates for unemployment
and inflation.  Policy makers are forecasting growth of as much as 2.6
percent this year and 3.5 percent in 2014.  ‘Isn’t Good’  “Even though Bernanke has downplayed it, the market is
looking at this as the beginning of a monetary tightening
regime, and that isn’t good for TIPS,” said Donald Ellenberger,
who oversees about $10 billion as co-head of government and
mortgage-backed securities at Federated Investors in Pittsburgh.
“The more we look like we are ready to retreat out of the
unchartered territory we’ve been in -- with inflation still
under control -- the worse it will be for TIPS.”  TIPS pay interest at lower rates than regular Treasuries on
a principal amount that’s adjusted based on the Labor
Department’s consumer price index.  U.S. inflation-linked debt maturing in 10 or more years
has lost 12 percent this year, compared with a 6.9 percent drop
in the broader TIPS market and a 1.9 percent decline in the
overall Treasury market, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  