-- Turkish Stocks Enter Bear Market as Lira Sinks to Record on Fed
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k   a n d   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-06-20T15:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/lira-plunges-to-all-time-low-as-turkish-yields-surge-on-fed.html
Turkey ’s main  stock index  sank more
than 20 percent from its May peak into a so-called  bear market 
while the lira tumbled to a record against the dollar after the
U.S. Federal Reserve signaled it may scale back monetary
stimulus. Turkish bonds fell the most in  emerging markets .  The Borsa Istanbul National 100 index slumped 6.8 percent
to 73,461.89 at the close in Istanbul, down 21 percent from the
May 22 high. The lira depreciated for a fourth day, falling as
much as 1.8 percent to 1.9363 a dollar as the central bank held
six currency auctions to support it. The currency was at 1.9334
a dollar at 5:44 p.m. in Istanbul, taking this month’s drop to
2.9 percent.  “Turkey is more vulnerable due to lingering political
tensions,” Jerome Broex, a currency and fixed-income trader at
Turkish Bank in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments. “The
central bank wasn’t able to cope with the dollar, but it may
intervene deeper in the market over the following days.”  The rout in Turkish assets, which comes amid violent
protests in the country, follows Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
statement yesterday that the central bank may end its bond-purchase program in 2014 if risks to the  U.S. economy  abate.
Demonstrations in Turkey, which spiraled this month from
government plans to develop Istanbul’s Taksim Square, have
prompted investors to weigh whether the biggest drop in bond
yields in emerging markets over the past year is justified.  Turkey’s central bank sold $350 million at six auctions
today. The regulator also said it would vary the amount of sales
rather than capping them at $50 million as it had said on June
11. The cost of protecting Turkish debt against default through
five-year credit-default swaps increased 44 basis points to 207,
compared with 215 basis points for Russia and  Brazil .  Bonds Slump  The yield on the two-year benchmark  bonds  surged 80 basis
points to 7.61 percent, the biggest advance on record, while 10-year  yields  jumped 93 basis points to 8.32 percent.  “We may see two-year yields rising to as high as 8 percent
over the next few weeks, if the central bank tightens liquidity
further,” Broex said. Ten-year yields may move toward 8.5
percent in such a scenario, he said.  The benchmark equity index has decreased almost 15 percent
since May 31, when an environmentalist sit-in against the
redevelopment of a public park in Turkey’s biggest city
snowballed into nationwide protests against Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s government.  ‘Party Over’  The two-year bond yield has soared 154 basis points since
then, reducing its decrease in the past year to 140 basis points
and leading Turkish bonds to fall behind  Poland ’s as the best-performing debt among emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg. The
nation’s 10-year local-currency bonds were the worst performers
in emerging markets today, the data show.  “The party’s over,” Baris Buyukdemir, general manager at
Ceros Securities in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.
“People are a bit drunk and there’s fighting at the door. When
it’s over and everyone goes to bed, it’ll be fine.”  The central bank lowered interest rates last month two
times more than analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expected. It cut
the benchmark one-week repurchase rate by 0.5 percentage point
to 4.5 percent, also cutting the top and bottom ends of its so-called interest-rate corridor by the same amount.  “Turkey has been caught in this wave of capital outflows
with too low  interest rates ,” Bulent Topbas, an Istanbul-based
 fund manager  at Strateji Menkul Degerler AS, said in e-mailed
comments. “The Fed has changed the rules of the game.”  If the central bank concludes that its dollar auctions are
ineffective in supporting the lira, the regulator may “engage
in extraordinary action” such as an unscheduled meeting to
raise the policy rate, Topbas said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net ;
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  