-- Ireland Tries to Keep Bank-Recap Door Open as Opposition Hardens
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2013-06-20T15:36:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/ireland-tries-to-keep-bank-recap-door-open-as-opposition-hardens.html
Ireland is pushing for European
finance ministers to leave the door open for retroactive bank
recapitalization, two officials familiar with the matter said,
amid hardening opposition from Northern European governments.  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  wants the euro area’s
rescue fund, the European Stability Mechanism, to refund as much
as 30 billion euros ($39.5 billion) the state spent saving
lenders led by Allied Irish Banks Plc and  Bank of Ireland Plc ,
after the economy crashed in 2008.  The government is fighting to keep the proposal alive as
opponents lay out their objections to the plan today in
 Luxembourg . Frans Weekers, the Dutch state secretary for
finance, said his nation is against retroactive recapitalization
of banks, while German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said
that leaders don’t have a lot of room for maneuver.  “The capacity of the ESM is limited,” Schaeuble told
reporters in Luxembourg today. “It makes no sense to raise
false expectations. That only leads to disappointment in
markets.”  More help with the banking debt may smooth Ireland’s path
out of the three-year international bailout program, which is
due to end at the end of the year. The government will likely
seek a precautionary  credit line  once its current rescue package
concludes, said the two officials, who declined to be named
because no final decisions have been made.  Speaking to reporters as euro-region ministers arrived in
Luxembourg, Noonan said he wanted retrospective recapitalization
“to relieve the burden which is inhibiting our growth rates.”  Return to Markets  The entire cost of rescuing the banking system amounted to
40 percent of the economy, or 35,000 euros for every home in the
country, the government has said, arguing that Ireland saved the
banks at the behest of European authorities.  As a safety measure to underpin the nation’s full return to
bond markets, Ireland is expected to seek support from the
 International Monetary Fund  as well as  Europe  if it decided to
avail of a possible precautionary credit line with the euro-area
permanent rescue fund to bolster its “durable return to market
financing,” the Washington-based fund said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle in Luxembourg at 
 Ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  