-- Mitsubishi UFJ to Pay $250 Million to N.Y. Regulator
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2013-06-21T02:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/mitsubishi-ufj-to-pay-250-million-to-n-y-regulator.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) 
agreed to pay $250 million to the state of  New York  to settle
claims it transferred billions of dollars for countries facing
U.S. sanctions including  Iran , Sudan and Myanmar.  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. , the main lending unit of
 Japan ’s biggest bank by market value, moved an estimated $100
billion through the state for government and privately owned
entities on the Specially Designated Nationals list issued by
the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control
(OFAC) between 2002 and 2007, the New York State Department of
Financial Services (DFS) and New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said
in a statement yesterday.  The transfers involved about 28,000 clearing transactions
and the bank routinely stripped information from wire transfer
messages that could identify countries and people subject to
international sanctions, the department said. The agreement
follows  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s record settlement with the U.S. last
year, stemming from sanctions aimed at pressuring Iran to halt
its nuclear program.  “We have and will continue to take a hard line in rooting
out misconduct at banks that threaten our national security,”
 Benjamin Lawsky , the superintendent of the department, said in
the statement.  Shares of Mitsubishi UFJ fell 2.8 percent to 566 yen as of
10:46 a.m. in Tokyo trading, compared with a 2.3 percent decline
for the benchmark Topix Index.  One-Year Review  The Bank of Tokyo instructed employees that “in order to
avoid freezing of funds” they should “omit” information that
could have identified transactions involving an “enemy
country,” according to the DFS statement.  The bank in 2007 identified the issues cited by the DFS,
voluntarily and promptly ceased the practices, reported them to
all of its regulators and has been cooperating fully with them,
Mitsubishi UFJ said in a statement to the Tokyo Stock Exchange
today.  The company will retain a consultant approved by the
department for a one-year compliance review of the bank’s
operations, it said.  “We have no higher priority than conducting our business
with integrity and full regulatory compliance.” Yuji Okumura, a
Tokyo-based spokesman for Mitsubishi UFJ, said today. “We will
continue to work constructively with DFS, the compliance
consultant and all our regulators in our key markets around the
world.”  Mitsubishi UFJ is the largest shareholder in New York-based
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  and owns San Francisco-based lender UnionBanCal
Corp. The company was the world’s biggest bank when it was
created in 2005 through the merger of Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial
Group Inc. and UFJ Holdings Inc.  Policies, Procedures  In December, the bank reached a separate agreement with the
Foreign Assets Control office, paying $8.6 million to settle
charges it had removed information from $5.9 million in fund
transfers that might have caused the transfers through the U.S.
to be blocked or rejected because they involved sanctioned
parties.  The settlement with New York focuses on “alleged
violations of New York state record-keeping requirements, not
alleged violations of federal sanctions law,” which is the
processing of transactions for sanctioned parties,  John
Sullivan , spokesman for OFAC at the Treasury department, said in
a statement.  Other Banks  “The number and value of transactions at issue in the OFAC
settlement was smaller because the OFAC investigation and
settlement focused on apparent violations of federal sanctions
law,” Sullivan said. “During the time period in question in
both the DFS and OFAC settlements, federal law permitted U-Turn
transactions with Iran, so long as no sanctioned parties were
involved.”  Others banks have been penalized by U.S. regulators for
money laundering or for handling money transfers for countries
or entities under sanction by the U.S.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , Britain’s second-largest bank,
agreed to pay $667 million to U.S. regulators after they alleged
it violated U.S. sanctions with Iran, making its final
settlement in December. The lender in August 2012 was accused by
Lawsky of helping Iran launder about $250 billion in violation
of federal laws, keeping false records and handling lucrative
wire transfers for Iranian clients. Of the $667 million
settlement, $340 million was paid to New York.  HSBC agreed in December 2012 to pay $1.9 billion in
penalties as part of a deferred prosecution agreement that
settled U.S. probes of  money laundering  tied to  Europe ’s largest
bank, making it the largest such accord ever.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Farrell in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  