-- Jackie Kennedy Letters, Ireland Torch for JFK: D.C. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-06-20T20:03:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/jackie-kennedy-letters-ireland-torch-for-jfk-d-c-scene.html
The American Film Institute’s Docs
film festival opened last night with “Letters to Jackie:
Remembering President Kennedy.”  The film centers on some of the 800,000 missives written to
the first lady after her husband’s 1963 assassination, which are
read by various actors.  A retired librarian named Gretchen Farwell attended. She
wrote a letter to the widowed  Jacqueline Kennedy  while a student
at St. Olaf College in  Minnesota .  “I started to shake,” Farwell said on hearing her words
being read by actress Jessica Chastain last night. “I’ve never
written a letter before or since.”  Janis Hirsch, a comedy writer for TV shows “Murphy Brown”
and “Will and Grace,” was a child suffering from polio when
she wrote to Kennedy. Still in crutches, she was there last
night with a big smile as her letter was read by Hailee
Steinfeld of “True Grit” fame.  The documentary, which will air on TLC later this year, is
based on the book “Letters to Jackie: Condolences From a
Grieving Nation” by Ellen Fitzpatrick, and was written and
directed by Bill Couturie.  Corn Dogs  Guests eyed a new Audi model, courtesy of Audi of America
Inc., the festival’s chief sponsor, or occupied themselves with
pomegranate martinis and lobster roll corn dogs. Audi of America
President Scott Keogh appreciated the documentary festival’s
“real stories.”  Lyndon Boozer, assistant vice president, federal relations,
for  AT&T Inc. (T) , whose mother worked in the Kennedy and Johnson
administrations, came with Jesse Price, a senior director of
federal government affairs with  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , and Tonya
Williams, director of legislative affairs in the office of Vice
President  Joe Biden . The festival runs through June 23.  The Irish Embassy organized a ceremony on Tuesday at
Arlington National Cemetery to honor President  John F. Kennedy ’s
visit to his ancestral homeland of Ireland 50 years ago.  “It’s a story every immigrant holds in his heart,” said
Representative Joseph Kennedy III, Massachusetts Democrat and
great nephew of JFK. “It’s a story of a thousand welcomes and a
million tears. It’s a story of a young man returning home.”  Kennedy, 32, was joined by cousins Timothy Shriver, the
chief executive of  Special Olympics  International Inc., and
Sydney Lawford, daughter of actor Peter Lawford and
granddaughter of patriarch Joseph P. Kennedy.  Emigrant Flame  Fire from the Eternal Flame at the gravesite of President
Kennedy and his wife will be transferred to a new Emigrant
Flame, in County Wexford. That’s the home of  Patrick Kennedy ,
President Kennedy’s great-grandfather, who left Ireland in the
19th century.  The ceremony in Ireland will take place on Saturday with
Caroline Kennedy, Jean Kennedy Smith, and Irish Prime Minister
 Enda Kenny  in attendance.  Paul Kehoe, the government of Ireland’s chief whip and
minister of state, said that President Kennedy’s 1963 historic
visit came at a time when Ireland needed a confidence boost.  “He was living proof that Irish people could do anything
they set their minds to do.”  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Lance Esplund 
on art.  To contact the writer on this story:
 Stephanie Green  in  Washington  at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 