-- James Gandolfini and the Art of ‘The Sopranos’
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2013-06-20T15:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/james-gandolfini-and-the-art-of-the-sopranos-.html
Legendary acting coach Tanya Berezin
once  told an interviewer  that what makes an actor great is the
ability “to throw light ... in some sort of inexplicable way” on
“what makes people tick and live and thrive and what makes
people not.”  James Gandolfini , who died yesterday in Italy at
51, possessed that rare gift. Every moment he spent on the
screen illuminated the human condition.  He was best known, of course, as star of “The Sopranos,”
which ran on  HBO  from 1999 to 2007, and was recently dubbed by
the Writers Guild of America as the  best-written show  in the
history of television. And plenty of “Sopranos” fans will tell
you that the heart of the show was the sparkle of the writing.
Others will cite the brilliance of the central irony, or even
the precious settings, particularly the lovely upscale
ordinariness of Tony and Carmela Soprano’s suburban New Jersey
home, which to this day is said to attract busloads of the
curious.  But as fast as the plot twists and snappy one-liners
whirled, “The Sopranos” was ultimately an actors’ show, and the
hub around which it all revolved was Gandolfini. Although it
would be silly to compare “The Sopranos” to “The Godfather”
movies, the quietly confident faithful husbands of the Coppola
epics are in some ways less interesting as character studies
than Gandolfini’s angst-ridden, anxiety-driven, adulterous mob
boss -- the cruel yet eerily sympathetic antihero who paved the
way for Walter White of “Breaking Bad” and even “Mad Men’s”  Don
Draper .  Large Acting  I was a “Sopranos” early adopter -- one of those who had
more or less abandoned television as a source of serious
entertainment, only to have my expectations confounded when the
show premiered in January 1999. There was a sense of amazement -
- this is television? -- along with a swift and profound
admiration for the undisputed leader of the ensemble cast.
Gandolfini was a large man, but it was his acting, not his bulk,
that filled the frame.  His sense of timing was impeccable. There’s an episode in
season 2 where his oft-bumbling nephew, Christopher Moltisanti,
upset about a new appointment in the family, grumbles, “Guess I
didn’t get the memo.” Tony snaps out his retort with perfect
disdain: “Would you have read it if you got one?” And the other
side of Tony’s personality, in a season 6 episode, when his
cousin mentions in passing the killing of a pet dog when they
were children. Tony, moments earlier bantering and crude, is for
an instant overcome by a fugitive emotion and, before recovering
himself, mumbles with a child’s helplessness: “Father told me he
took him to live on a farm.”  He could snap on a dime from one mood to the next, and was
practically an ensemble cast all by himself. There was the
earnest family man who wept upon realizing that his son had
inherited his anxiety disorder, and the wildly selfish
philanderer who went so far as to beat a friend savagely for
taking up with his former mistress. There was the live-and-let-live libertarian who resisted enormous pressure to execute one
of his captains for being gay, and the instinctive racist who
did all he could to drive a black boyfriend out of his daughter
Meadow’s life.  Sometimes he was several things at once, as in the first
season, when he is the doting father who takes Meadow to visit
colleges in  Maine , discovers a former criminal colleague now in
witness protection, takes time out to murder him with his bare
hands -- and still picks up his daughter on schedule.  Gandolfini is often described as an unknown prior to “The
Sopranos.” This is not entirely true. His star turn was presaged
by a number of minor but memorable film roles. Two in particular
give us a glimpse of the different facets of screen personality
that would later be combined in Tony Soprano.  Underappreciated Acting  First was Gandolfini’s delicious comic performance in Barry Sonnenfeld’s underappreciated 1995 film “Get Shorty.” Gandolfini
played Bear, an ominous, hulking Hollywood stuntman-turned-bodyguard, who tries to intimidate a Miami gangster played by
 John Travolta . Both tussles are brief -- they last only seconds
-- and both times Bear comes out on the short end. The humor is
in Gandolfini’s remarkable sequence of facial expressions, from
scary to pained to acquiescence, just like that.  That same year Gandolfini had appeared in the late Tony
Scott’s “Crimson Tide,” a thriller about a mutiny aboard a U.S.
nuclear submarine. Gandolfini played Lieutenant Bobby Dougherty,
who leads the faction of the divided crew supporting the
decision of the captain (Gene Hackman) to obey an ambiguous
message and fire nuclear missiles at the  Soviet Union . Hackman
is stern and dutiful, but Gandolfini, as he contemplates blowing
the enemy to bits, seems fiendishly eager, even gleeful.  Tony to a T.  Like any television show, “The Sopranos” was at times
uneven. The third season episode “Pine Barrens,” often cited by
critics as one of the best in the entire series, always struck
me as a bit of a bore -- most likely because the focus is on two
members of Tony’s gang stumbling around in the frozen woods
searching for a Russian mobster, with Gandolfini himself
relegated to a tiny part.  Without Gandolfini, “The Sopranos” would have been a very
different show. Edie Falco, for instance, was consistently
outstanding as his wife, Carmela, but one suspects that the
talented Lorraine Bracco, originally offered the role before she
became the psychiatrist Jennifer Melfi instead, would have fit
just as smoothly. And Bracco herself seemed increasingly
marginalized in the show’s later seasons, as creator David Chase’s original semi-comic conception -- a gangster seeking
treatment for an anxiety disorder -- slowly yielded to its own
back story of mafia power struggles and familial melodrama.  There are finer actors, of course. But there are few who
strike us, from first glimpse, as so much bigger than the screen
that contains them. Hugh Laurie comes to mind: But for eight
seasons of “House” he played but a single mood, albeit with
relentless precision. Gandolfini had the harder job, projecting
a broad and fast-changing sweep of emotion week after week.  Quality Acting  “The Sopranos” helped return quality to television drama,
and James Gandolfini was central to that accomplishment. One is
reminded of how Louis Menand once  described  the mission of
Pauline Kael, longtime film critic for the  New Yorker : “making
popular entertainment respectable to people whose education told
them that popular entertainment is not art.” Gandolfini probably
didn’t imagine that the show whose cast he led would have the
same effect. But his legacy will remain a cascade of popular
television programs that people who search for quality aren’t
embarrassed to watch, debate and blog about.  After “The Sopranos” ended its run, Gandolfini returned to
the big screen. His parts were mostly small -- think “The Taking
of Pelham 1 2 3” and “Zero Dark Thirty” -- but oh, how he filled
them! I’m not so foolish as to suggest that we will never see
his like again. So let me simply say that this fan is going to
miss him.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and the
novel “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” Follow him on
Twitter at  @StepCarter .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 