-- Japan to Consider Fiscal Steps to Counter Hit From Tax Rise
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 2013-06-20T09:28:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/japan-to-consider-fiscal-steps-to-counter-tax-rise-hit-to-growth.html
Japan ’s government is ready to
provide extra spending if a  sales-tax  increase next year damps
economic growth, a senior finance ministry official said.  “We must take appropriate action to counter” any decline
in economic growth after the tax increase planned for April,
Yuzuru Takeuchi, 54, parliamentary secretary for finance and a
lower house legislator, said in an interview today in  Tokyo . The
government will also create a panel to encourage companies to
raise wages, he said.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is rolling out fiscal and
monetary stimulus to help pull the economy out of a more than
decade-long deflationary malaise. The government is grappling
with supporting growth while trying to slow the increase in
Japan’s debt burden, the developed world’s largest.  “If the government doesn’t announce a further fiscal
package, we’re likely to see some payback” in growth from the
boost in 2013 from  government spending , said Masaaki Kanno,
chief Japan economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo.  The economy may shrink an annualized 3.9 percent in the
second quarter of 2014 after the sales tax is raised to 8
percent from its current 5 percent, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The tax will
be further increased to 10 percent in 2015.  Stocks Dive  Asian shares headed for the biggest loss since March 2011
today on concern that the U.S. Federal Reserve may phase out
stimulus and as a cash crunch in  China  worsened, highlighting
global risks that could weigh on Japan’s expansion. The MSCI
Asia Pacific Index of regional shares lost 4.2 percent by 9:46
a.m. in  London  as Japan’s Topix fell 1.3 percent. The yen was
1.8 percent lower at 98.15 per dollar.  Tax revenues for the current fiscal year will probably
exceed an initial estimate and the government can tap that
resource for spending, said Takeuchi, a lawmaker in the ruling
coalition’s New Komeito party.  One ruling-party lawmaker who has advised Abe on monetary
policy said earlier this month that some budget steps ought to
be taken to reduce the impact of the sales-tax boost.  “We must consider fiscal measures in next year’s budget to
alleviate its harmful effects,”  Kozo Yamamoto , a Liberal
Democratic Party politician who Abe has said has been an
influence on his economic thinking, said in a June 7 interview.
“That could be a handout to low income people.”  Wage Negotiations  The government plans to create a panel to take charge of
wage negotiations to encourage companies to raise pay as the
central bank seeks to achieve 2 percent inflation, Takeuchi
said. Traditionally, Japan’s wage negotiations are conducted in
spring each year between firms and labor unions.  “Price increases without higher wages will just inflict
pain on the Japanese people and won’t lead to an end to
deflation in a real sense,” he said. Raising wages is
“crucial” to cause a positive economic cycle in which prices
and workers’ incomes increase together and lead to more
consumption and capital investment.  Japanese wages  were unchanged in April after falling for
the previous two months.  Abe met in February with Japanese business leaders and
urged them to increase wages and help end deflation. Separately,
Finance Minister Taro Aso and ministry officials met leading
members of the Keidanren, the country’s biggest business lobby,
in March and called for wage increases. Takeuchi attended this
meeting.  Aso has “strongly advised” the prime minister of the need
to encourage firms to pay higher wages, Takeuchi said, and
Japanese firms should start using their accumulated cash to do
so, he added.  Private companies held cash and deposits worth 225 trillion
yen ($2.3 trillion), an amount in excess of the size of  Italy ’s
economy or the liquid assets held by American firms,  Bank of
Japan  data showed yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  