-- Japan’s Ruling LDP Promises ‘Bold’ Tax Breaks for Investment
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-06-20T10:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/japan-s-ruling-ldp-promises-bold-tax-breaks-for-investment.html
Japan ’s ruling Liberal  Democratic
Party  will enact “bold” tax breaks for corporate investment,
according to a policy platform unveiled today ahead of an upper
house election that opinion polls suggest it will win.  “Japan’s corporate taxes are extremely high in comparison
with other countries,” Sanae Takaichi, chairwoman of the
party’s Policy Research Council, told reporters. “I want to
create the environment to cut corporate tax.”  The party reiterated pledges to aim for 3 percent average
nominal economic growth and 2 percent  real growth  over the next
10 years. It aims to halve the primary  budget deficit  by fiscal
2014 and reach a primary balance by fiscal 2020, according to
the document.  Media polls show Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s LDP is on
track to win a vote expected on July 21, after a landslide
victory in the election to the more powerful lower house in
December. Surveys show voters have high expectations for his
economic policies, with the  Nikkei (NKY)  225 Stock Average up about 29
percent since he took office on Dec. 26 last year.  In a survey published by the Yomiuri newspaper on June 11,
44 percent of respondents said they planned to vote for the LDP
in the proportional representation section of the election,
compared with 7 percent for the Democratic Party, the second-most popular option. The paper polled 998 people by phone and
did not give a margin of error.  Abe and his ministers say the LDP’s growth plan, based on
unprecedented monetary easing, fiscal stimulus and a strategy to
encourage investment, is working. Gross domestic product rose an
annualized 4.1 percent in January-March, compared with 1.2
percent in the previous quarter.  Inflation Target  The party also said it would consider measures to help
people and industries affected by the weakening of the yen. The
yen has fallen against every major currency since mid-November.  The LDP said the government is working closely with the
 Bank of Japan  toward achieving its 2 percent inflation target.
On nuclear power, the party said it would try to persuade local
residents to allow restarting reactors judged safe by the
 Nuclear Regulatory Commission , following the Fukushima disaster
of March 2011.  The party vowed to strengthen the country’s armed forces
and secure necessary technologies and production facilities. On
the question of territorial disputes, it said it would seek to
spread Japan’s views.  Japan is engaged in separate disputes with  China  and  South
Korea  over the ownership of two groups of tiny islets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  