-- Jefferies Wrongfully Fired Asia Trader Over Hitler Video
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-06-20T06:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/jefferies-wrongfully-fired-trader-over-hitler-video-judge-says.html
Jefferies Group LLC  wrongfully fired
its former Asia head of equity trading  Grant Williams  over a
newsletter that included a reference to a Hitler parody video, a
Hong Kong judge ruled.  Williams drafted a newsletter to subscribers which included
a link to a video clip depicting  Adolf Hitler , with subtitles
created by a U.S. filmmaker that mocked JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Chairman and CEO  Jamie Dimon . The newsletter was released
prematurely and Jefferies fired Williams the next day for
unacceptable and inappropriate conduct, according to the judge.  Jefferies management was “hypersensitive” and
“irrational,” in its response to the publication of the Dec.
7, 2010 client newsletter, Judge Conrad Seagroatt said in
issuing his decision today in Hong Kong’s High Court.  Williams is seeking damages of at least HK$13 million ($1.7
million) for wrongful dismissal and Jefferies’ breach of trust
and confidence, his lawyer Kevin Bowers said. Seagroatt said he
would issue written reasons for his decision and rule on the
damages later.  It would be premature to comment on today’s ruling until
the final decision is handed down and damages awarded,
Jefferies’ lawyer Tom Fyfe said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Downfall’  The YouTube Inc. parody video clip uses a scene from the
2004 German movie “Downfall” showing Hitler screaming at his
subordinates at the end of the war. Subtitles suggested Hitler’s
character was Dimon, speaking in the context of bets on the
price of silver.  “Jefferies was seen as a company associated with that
video that insulted in a quite humiliating way a competitor and
business partner,” Jose Maurellet, another lawyer for the bank,
told the court yesterday.  Marie Cheung , a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for JPMorgan,
declined to comment on the case.  Williams had submitted a draft of the newsletter for
approval to his London-based supervisor as required, his lawyer
told the court in his closing statement yesterday. The
newsletter was sent out from New York before being approved and
without Williams’s knowledge, said Ashley Burns, another lawyer
representing Williams.  As a senior employee of the New York-based investment bank,
Williams was responsible for ensuring the content was
appropriate, Maurellet said.  The newsletter for clients was intended to attract business
and offended some instead, he said.  ‘Irreverent’ Newsletter  Jefferies senior management was aware of the tone of the
newsletter, which they described as “irreverent,” “edgy,”
“colloquial” and liked by subscribers, Seagroatt said.  Williams didn’t create the video and referring to it
shouldn’t have been construed as promoting it, Seagroatt said.  Williams, in the newsletter titled “Things That Make You
Go Hmmmm,” included a link to the video to make the point that
a story which had begun as a fringe conspiracy theory concerning
the price of silver had achieved sufficient public awareness
such that a “Downfall” parody had been made, Burns said.  Williams included a warning about profane language and it
is reasonable to suppose that readers of such newsletters are
mature and sophisticated, Burns said. The segment of the movie
has been used in hundreds of parodies, where subtitles wholly
unconnected to the German soundtrack have been added, he said.  Jefferies Asia CEO  Michael Alexander , who fired Williams,
conceded the dismissal wouldn’t have happened had the newsletter
not been distributed, Burns said in a closing statement
yesterday.  “It has been a long hard fight,” Williams, who is now a
portfolio manager with Vulpes Investment Management Ltd. in
Singapore, said today after the ruling.  “It’s definitely taken a toll on me. But I felt I had no
choice but to fight it. I didn’t think it was going to take 2
1/2 years.”  The case is Grant Williams and Jefferies Hong Kong Ltd.,
HCA320/2011, Hong Kong Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  