-- Jefferies Said to Hire Two Mortgage-Securities Traders From RBS
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-06-20T17:42:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/jefferies-said-to-hire-two-mortgage-securities-traders-from-rbs.html
Jefferies Group LLC hired mortgage-bond traders Brian Song and Cory Rothman from  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  as the investment bank that  Leucadia National
Corp. (LUK)  bought this year boosts its trading staff.  Rothman focuses on commercial-mortgage backed securities,
while Song trades residential debt, according to two people
familiar with the hires who asked not to be identified because
the moves haven’t been announced. Richard Khaleel, a spokesman
for Jefferies, said he couldn’t comment.  Jefferies, run by Chief Executive Officer  Richard Handler ,
has increased its staff by 69 percent since the end of 2006 to
about 3,800 people, focusing much of its hiring in fixed-income.
The New York-based bank has hired from Wall Street competitors
including UBS AG, Morgan Stanley and Barclays Plc.  Rothman joined Royal Bank of Scotland’s RBS Securities unit
in November 2008 from Bear Stearns & Co., according to records
maintained by the  Financial Industry Regulatory Authority . Song
came to RBS in June 2010 from Credit Suisse, Finra records show.  Rothman and Song, both of whom were based in Stamford,
Connecticut, couldn’t be reached for comment.  Ed Canaday , a
spokesman for RBS, declined to comment.  At RBS, Song ran trading of pass-through government-backed
mortgage securities, one of the people said.  Jefferies was  purchased  in March by Leucadia, its biggest
shareholder, in a deal designed to help the firm weather market
turmoil. The bank saw a “significant slowdown” in fixed-income
trading during March and April resulting from uncertainty about
when the  Federal Reserve  will slow $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases, Handler said in a June 18 statement.  RBS, which U.K. taxpayers bailed out during the global
financial crisis in 2008 and 2009 in a 45.5 billion-pound ($71
billion) rescue, is starting to cut 2,000 investment-banking
jobs. Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  announced his
departure last week without naming a successor, throwing off the
timetable for privatizing Britain’s biggest government-owned
lender.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  