-- JPMorgan Boston Race Emotional Return for Bombing Victims
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-06-20T12:34:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/jpmorgan-boston-race-emotional-return-for-bombing-victims.html
The last time Roseann Sdoia attended
a road race, terror shattered the course and left her with a leg
amputated above the knee. Tonight, she’ll be back to sound the
starting horn as racing returns to downtown  Boston .  “I have mixed emotions because I should be there running,
but I’m not,” said Sdoia, 45, who has undergone three surgeries
since the April 15 Boston Marathon bombing that killed three and
injured more than 260 people.  Tonight’s 3.5-mile  J.P. Morgan Corporate Challenge  race,
which starts at 7:20 p.m., is one of the first organized
competitions in downtown Boston since the terrorist attack. It
begins at the Boston Common and runs parallel to the last mile
or so of the  marathon course . For many participants, the event
is an emotional return to a neighborhood devastated by the twin
bomb blasts.  “The race itself symbolizes a lot of the running community
and the Boston community coming together and really slowly
taking back the city and taking back running,” said Cara
Bednar, 28, who finished the marathon in under four hours, about
10 to 15 minutes before the first blast.  About 12,000 people from 569 companies are registered for
tonight’s race, said Erich Timmerman, a spokesman for New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which is organizing the event.
JPMorgan, the largest  U.S. bank , is donating all registration
fees, about $500,000, to  One Fund Boston , which was created to
assist victims of the bombings and their families, he said.  No Headphones  “Boston was my home for eight years and it has been home
to our corporate challenge for the past 30 years,” said
JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon, 57, who attended
 Tufts University  and  Harvard Business School  in the Boston area.
“It’s a great tradition, a really enjoyable night and this year
supports a cause that is very close to all of our hearts.”  A veteran of 15 marathons, Bednar said loud bangs at races
and large crowds now make her nervous, especially at the start
of a run.  “Now I don’t run with headphones,” she said. “I try to
keep my distance and look at what’s around me, look at what’s
happening in the crowds.”  Bednar, who works for the Greater Boston Convention and
Visitors Bureau, said she initially thought the  first bomb  was
some sort of celebratory shot.  “Then we heard the second blast going off,” she said.
“That’s when people started ripping up the tables and the
barricades and started driving the reverse way up Boylston”
Street, she said.  Finding Family  Bednar and her sister, who joined her for the last few
miles of the race, spent the next two hours looking for their
brother and his 2- and 4-year-old children who came to watch
their aunts cross the finish line, she said.  Along the way, a stranger came out of her house to give
Bednar and her sister long-sleeved shirts to keep the chill
away. They found family friends who helped reconnect the two
with their parents and brother, who were all safe.  Seven of Sdoia’s colleagues at National Development, a
Newton, Massachusetts-based real estate development firm, agreed
to run when she organized their corporate challenge team in
March. After the attack, the office team swelled to about 80
people, she said.  Sdoia and a friend had left a Red Sox baseball game early
on April 15 to watch two acquaintances finish the race when she
heard the first bomb go off. While she thought it odd, she
wasn’t alarmed until the man next to her directed everyone to
move into the street.  Running Blade  “He started climbing over the barrier,” she said. “But I
was much shorter and turned to my right to run and basically ran
right into the explosion with the second bomb.”  The blast  knocked her down . The ground was covered with
blood and her right leg was bleeding profusely, she said. A
local college student applied a tourniquet and carried her to
safety.  Sdoia received her prosthetic leg this week and said she
wants to eventually get a running blade so she can resume her
workouts.  “I’m excited to get my leg, but it’s bittersweet because
of the reason why I’m getting it,” Sdoia said. “My life has
changed so much.”  Runners will see heightened security at tonight’s event.
Participants aren’t allowed to bring large bags or backpacks,
which is how the bombs were hidden in April, organizers said.
The Boston Police Department will probably have bomb-sniffing
dogs and explosives technicians on site, said  Cheryl Fiandaca , a
department spokeswoman.  For Sdoia, tonight’s race shows that the city and its
residents are returning to their regular routines.  “I’ll be back to my normal life sooner or later, as
well,” she said. “People move on and you have to just keep
moving forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  