-- Kodak in $895 Million Financing Deal With BofA, JPMorgan
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2013-06-20T17:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/kodak-lines-up-895-million-in-post-bankruptcy-credit-from-banks.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  lined up
$895 million in loans under agreements with  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp.  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  as the bankrupt
photography pioneer seeks to end its reorganization.  The three banks will serve as the lead arrangers for
$695 million of senior secured term loans and a revolving credit
line of as much as $200 million, Rochester, New York-based Kodak
said today in a statement.  The financing is an “essential component” for Kodak’s
exit from  bankruptcy protection , the company said in court
papers in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan, which must approve
Kodak’s agreements with the banks.  Kodak filed for bankruptcy in January 2012 and has been
selling assets to reorganize around its commercial imaging
business. It is scheduled to ask U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper at a June 25 hearing to allow creditors to vote on its
restructuring plan. It intends to exit bankruptcy within 90
days, according to court papers.  The bankruptcy-exit financing comes after Kodak said June
18 that creditors including GSO Capital Partners and
BlueMountain Capital have agreed to backstop a $406 million
rights offering for 85 percent of the equity in the reorganized
company.  Imaging Business  In April, Kodak said it was spinning off its personalized-and document-imaging businesses to its U.K. pension plan,
settling $2.8 billion in claims against the company. Last year,
it agreed to sell patents to a group of technology companies
including Apple Inc. for about $525 million.  Bank of America, JPMorgan and Barclays have committed
$130 million of the $200 million revolving credit facility,
according to court papers. They will syndicate the rest of the
financing, which will be used to pay secured creditors and fund
working capital and liquidity needs, Kodak said.  Kodak’s financial adviser is Lazard Ltd. and its  law firm 
is Sullivan & Cromwell LLP.  The bankruptcy case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-bk-10202,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  