-- N. Korea Seeks New Talks on Its Nuclear Program, China Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-20T08:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/n-korea-willing-to-restart-six-party-nuclear-talks-china-says.html
North  Korea  is ready to return to
six-party talks on its nuclear program,  China  said, the third
time this month that Kim Jong Un’s regime has proposed new
dialogue after easing off threats of atomic attacks.  The North is prepared for “talks of any form including the
six-party talks and hopes to peacefully solve the nuclear
problem through negotiations,” China’s Foreign Ministry said  on
its website , citing comments Vice Foreign Minister Kim Kye Gwan
made while meeting his Chinese counterpart in Beijing yesterday.  Resuming the dialogue would mark a turnaround for Kim Jong
Un, whose government said in January that dismantling its
nuclear program wasn’t up for discussion. China, the North’s
main diplomatic and economic backer, has since pressed the North
to return to negotiations while tightening enforcement of United
Nations sanctions targeting its financial transactions.  “It probably means exactly what it looks like -- that the
North Koreans are getting nervous,”  Paul Haenle , director of
the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global Policy in Beijing, said
by phone. “If you think about what’s been happening over the
last several months, China appears to be taking a tougher
approach.”  After triggering tougher UN sanctions with a missile test
in December and the detonation of an atomic device in February,
the North threatened pre-emptive atomic strikes against the U.S.
and  South Korea . It then backtracked and proposed new talks this
month, first with South Korea and then the U.S. The North later
called off the inter-Korean gathering over a protocol dispute.  Dying Wish  The Chinese foreign ministry statement quoted Kim Kye Gwan
as saying that achieving a nuclear-free Korean peninsula was the
“dying wish” of Kim Jong Un’s deceased father and grandfather,
who ruled before him.  Mentioning that may be a way for  North Korea  to save face
over the issue, said Dong Wang, director of the Center for
Northeast Asian Strategic Studies at  Peking University .  The North must show “sincerity toward dialogue” on top of
carrying out earlier commitments for any talks to take place,
South Korean Foreign Ministry spokesman Cho Tai Young told
reporters today in  Seoul , without elaborating. China’s Foreign
Ministry spokeswoman, Hua Chunying, called on all sides to take
advantage of positive developments.  “The situation on the Korean peninsula has shown some
easing lately,” Hua said. “We hope relevant parties can
treasure this proactive trend.”  Davies Meeting  While North Korean and Chinese diplomats met in Beijing
yesterday, the top U.S. envoy for Korea,  Glyn Davies , met his
South Korean and Japanese counterparts in  Washington  to  reaffirm 
their shared goal of “the verifiable denuclearization of the
Korean peninsula.”  The six-party talks were last held in December 2008, with
North Korea officially quitting the process in 2009 and
revealing a new uranium enrichment facility a year later. In
January, the North appeared to abandon the talks for good, with
the official Korean Central News Agency saying there can be “no
talks for the denuclearization of the peninsula.”  Asked yesterday about North Korea’s latest offer for six-way talks, U.S. State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said the
North  needs to  take “credible steps to denuclearize.” The six-party dialogue includes North and South Korea,  Japan , the U.S.,
Russia and China.  Nuclear Alignment  Meeting in California earlier this month, President  Barack Obama  and his Chinese counterpart,  Xi Jinping , found “quite a
bit of alignment” on stopping North Korea’s nuclear program,
White House national security adviser Tom Donilon said
afterward.  That agreement may have left the North out of options, said
Dong of the Center for Northeast Asian Strategic Studies.  “It is the firm position that China took, along with the
 United States  and South Korea, that really put the pressure on
North Korea,” Dong said. “Eventually North Korea came to the
recognition that there are actually no loopholes in the other
parties’ position that it can explore.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  