-- Napoli Looks at Suarez to Replace Cavani, Mirror Says: Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-06-20T11:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/napoli-looks-at-suarez-to-replace-cavani-mirror-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Suarez Move  Former Liverpool coach  Rafael Benitez  may try to bring  Luis
Suarez  to Napoli to replace Edinson Cavani should the striker
leave the Italian team, the Daily Mirror said.  Cavani, Suarez’s teammate on the Uruguay national side, may
bring in 50 million pounds ($77 million) from a move to Real
Madrid, Chelsea or Manchester City, the newspaper said. Benitez,
who led Liverpool to the Champions League title in 2005, may
move for Suarez, who has expressed an interest in leaving the
Premier League, the newspaper said.  City Leavers?  Juventus may attempt to sign Manchester City defender
 Aleksandar Kolarov , and have already shown an interest in his
teammate, striker  Carlos Tevez , the  Daily Mail  said.  The Italian champions want to strengthen its squad and are
attracted by Kolarov’s ability to play various positions, the
newspaper said. Juventus has had a long-time interest in signing
Tevez, who scored 17 goals for City last season, the Mail said.  Arsenal Record  Arsenal will make Real  Madrid ’s Gonzalo Higuain its record
signing, agreeing to pay the Argentinian 130,000 pounds a week,
the Mirror said.  The Gunners still have to complete a deal with the Spanish
club, and may end up paying about 22 million pounds for the
player, the newspaper said.  Juventus has given up on signing Higuain to focus on
Fiorentina’s Stevan Jovetic, the Mirror said.  Cole a Tiger?  Carlton Cole, replaced by West Ham at the end of last
season, may move to newly promoted Hull,  the Sun said .  The 29-year-old left Upton Park after seven years, and is
also being targeted by Queen’s Park Rangers, the newspaper said.  Everton Target  New Everton manager  Roberto Martinez  wants to make
Birmingham winger Nathan Redmond one of his first signings,  the
Sun said.    Martinez is prepared to spend about 3 million pounds to
outbid Crystal Palace, Swansea, Norwich and Fulham, the
newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  