-- Nassau Gaps Ignored as Penalty Reaches 4-Month Low: Muni Credit
-- B y   E m i l y   F r e e m a n ,   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-06-20T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/nassau-gaps-ignored-as-penalty-reaches-4-month-low-muni-credit.html
Debt of Nassau County, home of  New
York ’s richest households, is rallying even as the suburb
struggles to close budget gaps after more than two years of
state financial oversight.  The Long Island municipality of 1.3 million is selling $210
million of notes today after  Fitch Ratings  lowered its general-obligation grade last week and said more cuts are possible.
While the county projects a combined $276 million of shortfalls
in the coming three years, that may swell if it loses legal
battles, including one that would reverse a wage freeze, Fitch
said.  Nassau’s tax-free debt is benefiting as investors seek
shelter from New York’s state and local levies, the nation’s
highest. The extra yield on some county bonds due in 30 years
fell this week to the smallest since their sale in February.
Those securities have Fitch’s sixth-highest rating. The notes
offered today, which mature as soon as March, have the company’s
second-highest grade.  “Those will sell without a problem,” said Clark Wagner,
who oversees $1.6 billion of municipal debt as director of fixed
income at First Investors Management Co. in New York. “There is
so much money-market demand for New York notes.”  Holding Up  Nassau securities are holding up better than the rest of
the $3.7 trillion municipal market. Benchmark local-debt yields
are close to a 15-month high as investors anticipate that the
 Federal Reserve  will scale back its bond buying. Investors
pulled the most money ever from bond funds worldwide in the week
ended June 12, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR
Global, which tracks the flow of money into funds.  Tax-exempt Nassau general obligations maturing in April
2043 traded June 18 at an average yield of 4.36 percent, or
about 0.7 percentage point above benchmark debt, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The yield gap was 0.79 percentage point when
they were priced in February.  The county is selling $155 million of notes due in March
and $55 million maturing in April.  “Demand is very strong” from individual investors, Katie
Grilli-Robles, a spokeswoman for Republican County Executive
Edward Mangano, said in an e-mail.  Shared Strains  Nassau joins neighboring Suffolk County, home of the
Hamptons beach towns, and Rockland County north of  New York City 
in facing fiscal challenges. The Nassau County Interim Finance
Authority took control in January 2011 after ruling the county’s
budget had a gap of more than 1 percent of projected spending.  Fitch dropped the jurisdiction’s general obligations last
week by one step to A. The company cited the local economy as a
strength. Median  household income  was about $96,000 from 2007 to
2011, the most among New York counties, Census data show.  The county said this month that it ended fiscal 2012 with a
surplus of about $42 million, assuming reimbursement for some
costs related to  Hurricane Sandy , which hit the region Oct. 29.
The county closed a $310 million budget gap in the period, and
has reduced headcount by about 19 percent since 2009, Fitch
said.  “We have stayed away from the county in anticipation of
more financial stress and downgrades, and I’m glad we did,”
said Howard Cure, director of muni research at New York-based
Evercore Wealth Management LLC, which oversees $4.7 billion.  Rulings Pending  Two court rulings against the county are adding to
financial pressure.  The first case involves a wage freeze implemented by the
finance authority in 2011 that was challenged by labor unions. A
U.S. District judge in  Brooklyn  ruled in February that the move
wasn’t permitted by the New York Public Authorities Law, a
decision the county appealed. Oral arguments were heard this
month in Manhattan.  A projected deficit of $61.9 million for fiscal 2014 would
“substantially increase” if the county loses its appeal and
has to repay an estimated liability of about $230 million, Fitch
said.  The second case involves legislation passed by the county
in 2010 that shifts the responsibility to towns, school
districts and special districts for refunds to taxpayers who
have successfully challenged property-tax assessments.  February Decision  In February, a state appeals court in Brooklyn declared
that the law violates the state constitution and the Municipal
Home Rule Law. The county has appealed that ruling to the
state’s highest court in  Albany , which is expected to hear
arguments in the case next year, said Gary Spencer, a spokesman
for the Court of Appeals.  Elsewhere in municipal trading, yields on 10-year
Treasuries eclipsed like-maturity muni  interest rates  for the
first time since June 10. At  2.32 percent , yields on benchmark
10-year munis compare with  2.35 percent  for similar-maturity
Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the interest rates, a gauge of relative value,
is about 99 percent, down from above 110 percent last week. The
lower the figure, the more expensive munis are compared with
federal securities.  The federal court cases are Carver v. Nassau County Interim
Finance Authority, 11-cv-1614; Donohue v. Nassau County Interim
Finance Authority, 11-cv-1900; and Jaroncyzk v. Nassau County
Interim Finance Authority, 11-cv-2743, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn.)  The state court cases are Baldwin Union Free School
District v. Nassau County, 3280/2011; Hafner v. Nassau County,
4193/2011; and Town of North Hempstead v. Nassau County,
4381/2011, New York State Supreme Court, Nassau County.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emily Freeman in New York at 
 Efreeman14@bloomberg.net ;
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan  at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  