-- NCAA Lawyer Says Student Athletes Can’t Sue for Broadcast
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-06-21T01:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/ncaa-lawyer-says-student-athletes-can-t-sue-for-broadcast.html
Student athletes’ rights aren’t
infringed by broadcasts of matches and players can’t sue over
them, lawyers for the  National Collegiate Athletic Association 
told a judge.  The NCAA doesn’t make student athletes give up the rights
to their names, likenesses or images and, just like cheerleaders
or mascots at broadcast sporting events, the student players
have consented to be filmed and can’t sell their images, said
Greg Curtner, an attorney for the association.  “If you go out in public you are fair game to be put on
TV, you are consenting to be broadcast,” Curtner said at a
hearing today in federal court in Oakland,  California . “There
is no right of publicity for appearing in a live unscripted
event.”  U.S. District Judge Claudia Wilken is presiding over a
four-year-old lawsuit by ex-student basketball and football
players against the NCAA and videogame maker  Electronic Arts
Inc. (EA)  The judge is considering whether to expand the lawsuit into
a class-action, or group case, allowing current and former NCAA
basketball and football players to seek damages from the  NCAA,
its licensing arm and  Redwood City , California-based Electronic
Arts.  The athletes allege a conspiracy to prevent them from being
paid for the use of their images in broadcasts and games. Class
certification gives plaintiffs leverage to negotiate a
settlement.  Settlement Talks  Wilken said it might take “a while” to issue a ruling.
She urged attorneys for both sides to meet for settlement talks
after she issues it.  Schools and broadcasters don’t buy athletes’ rights to
control their names or images, Curtner told the judge today.  “No school or broadcaster has seen fit to buy those
rights,” said Curtner.  That’s because “the NCAA has a stranglehold on it,”
Wilken replied.  “There is no question that absent any pro-competitive
justification, the restraints imposed by these bylaws and
policies that foreclose athletes from participating in the
marketplace” are a violation of antitrust laws, said  Michael Hausfeld , an attorney for the plaintiffs.  Hausfeld disagreed with Curtner that any participant in a
sporting event waives the right to be compensated for appearing
in broadcasts.  “Do professionals not convey their rights?” Hausfeld
said. The NCAA’s position is that student athletes “retain
their rights but they can’t exercise them.”  The case is Keller v. Electronic Arts Inc., 09-01967, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  