-- New Jersey Democrats Reach Accord With Christie on Budget
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-06-20T21:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/new-jersey-democrats-reach-agreement-with-christie-on-budget.html
New Jersey Democrats, who control
the legislature, reached agreement with Republican Governor
 Chris Christie  on a spending plan for the fiscal year that
begins July 1, Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Sarlo  said.  The accord on the $32.9 billion plan, the same size as
Christie’s proposal, includes Assembly leaders, Sarlo, a Wood-Ridge Democrat, said today in a statement. Senate President
Stephen Sweeney has said final approval of the proposal will be
secured by June 24, a week ahead of a constitutional deadline.  Christie’s plan was criticized by Democrats when he
announced it in February. Assembly Majority Leader Louis Greenwald of  Cherry Hill  said it was politicized budget that
didn’t address high property taxes or unemployment. The governor
and all 120 lawmakers face re-election in November.  “This is a reasonable and responsible fiscal plan for New
Jersey that reflects the difficult economic conditions that
continue to require hard decisions on state finances,” Sarlo
said in the statement. “It doesn’t achieve everything we would
want to do if we had a stronger economy, but it accomplishes
what is within reach of the state’s finances.”  Medicaid Spending  Spending under the plan would rise 2.3 percent from the
fiscal 2013 budget to the most since 2008, according to state
 documents . The bill passed Sarlo’s 13-member panel 11-2 today,
with Democrats casting the no votes. The Assembly budget
committee also approved it, 7-1, with three abstentions.  As part of the agreement, Democrats secured $97.2 million
in supplemental spending that was offset by a reduction in
anticipated health costs, including Medicaid, Sarlo said. Also,
it provides an additional $35 million for restructuring higher
education, $20 million for cancer research grants and $23.5
million for community health providers and nursing homes.  Sarlo, 44, said he still has concerns that Christie’s plan
outspends anticipated revenue. Democrats will monitor state
finances in case mid-year cuts are needed, he said.  The governor and the legislature are required by law to
enact a balanced budget, and the state’s constitution gives
Christie, 50, the power to set revenue targets used in the plan.  Tax collections exceeded budget goals in April for a fifth
straight month after trailing in the first half of fiscal 2013,
which ends June 30.  New Jersey ’s jobless  rate  dropped for a fourth straight
month, to 8.6 percent in May, the state labor department said
today in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  