-- Neymar Lifts Brazil Into Confederations Cup Semis With Italy
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-06-20T05:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/neymar-lifts-brazil-into-confederations-cup-semis-with-italy.html
Brazil  and  Italy  advanced to the
Confederations Cup soccer semifinals with a game to spare by
maintaining 100 percent records at the eight-team competition.  Tournament host Brazil, the defending champion, moved into
the final four with a 2-0 victory against  Mexico  yesterday
before Italy rallied from two goals down to beat  Japan  4-3 in
the late game.  Neymar, who completed a 57 million euro ($75.5 million)
transfer to Spanish champion Barcelona before the tournament,
was Brazil’s match winner. The 21-year-old striker opened the
scoring in the ninth minute with a left-foot volley and beat two
defenders before crossing for Jo to score in stoppage time at
the end of the game at Estadio Castelao in Fortaleza.  “For the moment, results-wise at least, everything has
gone as we’d hoped,” Brazil coach Luiz Felipe Scolari told
reporters. “We’ve got a few things to work on, but I’d like to
highlight the spirit, togetherness and strength of this group.”  Sebastian Giovinco’s 86th-minute goal for Italy broke a 3-3
tie at Recife’s Arena Pernambuco minutes after Japan twice
struck the frame of the goal.  The Asian champion had led 2-0 on first-half goals from
Keisuke Honda and Shinji Kagawa before Daniele De Rossi’s header
and an own goal by Atsuto Uchida either side of the break made
it 2-2.  Mario Balotelli ’s 52nd-minute penalty kick then put
Italy ahead before Shinji Okazaki tied it with 20 minutes left.  “To be trailing 2-0 inside 25 minutes was tough to deal
with, but we understood what we had to do and got back into the
game,” said Italy coach Cesare Prandelli. “We showed great
courage by winning, but we’ll have to be better organized and
less careless as we continue on.”  Two straight defeats mean Japan and Mexico can’t advance
from Group A at the competition, which is a test event for next
year’s World Cup in Brazil. Mexico faces Japan and Brazil takes
on Italy to decide the group winner on June 22.  World champion Spain is aiming for its second straight win
when it meets Tahiti in a Group B match in Rio de Janeiro today,
while Nigeria plays Uruguay later in Salvador. The top two in
each four-team pool advance to the semifinals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Maracana Stadium in Rio de Janeiro at 
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at  celser@bloomberg.net  