-- Nigerian Military Offensive Risks Alienating Residents
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   G b e n g a   A k i n g b u l e
-- 2013-06-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/nigerian-military-offensive-risks-alienating-residents.html
Labaran Manu shut his grocery shop
and fled the northeastern Nigerian town of Mallam Fatori with
his two wives and five children after President Goodluck Jonathan sent troops last month to drive Islamist militants from
the area.  Now Manu, 32, living with relatives in the Borno state
capital, Maiduguri, won’t return to his home on the border with
Niger for fear of being caught between the Islamist militant
group known as Boko Haram and government troops.  “Most of us can’t move freely anymore,” Manu said in an
interview  on May 30 in Maiduguri, about 718 kilometers (446
miles) north-east of Abuja, the capital. “My family had to
leave for fear of being killed.”  Militant attacks and the government’s emphasis on military
power to counter them are forcing thousands of people to flee
their homes in the remote northeast, where the nation’s
statistics agency says almost 70 percent of the people live on
less than a dollar a day. That risks alienating inhabitants of
the region and making it easier for Boko Haram to gain recruits.  Besides the military response, the government needs to
prioritize jobs and economic development as part of its
counterinsurgency strategy in the region, according to Peter
Pham, director of Washington-based Atlantic Council’s  Africa 
Center and Roddy Barclay, West Africa analyst at Control Risks,
a London-based business consulting group.  Innocent Civilians  There are allegations also of the military killing innocent
civilians in its hunt for Islamists. As many as 228 people were
killed and more than 2,000 houses were burned down in Baga, near
Lake Chad, after security forces responded to a militant attack
on April 16, according to Maina Ma’aji Lawan, a senator
representing the area. Lawmakers and the National Human Rights
Commission have said they’ll investigate the Baga incident.  “A military-only policy that kills innocent civilians,
forces others to become refugees -- that’s not going to
legitimize Boko Haram or other militant groups, but it creates a
climate on which they will feed,” Pham said in a phone
interview on June 6. “In the long term it’s certainly
counterproductive.”  The West African nation is roughly split between a largely
Christian south and a mainly Muslim north. The violence has been
confined to the north and Abuja, far from the south where the
oilfields of Africa’s largest oil producer and Lagos, the
commercial capital, are located. About 55.1 percent of the
south’s residents live on less than a dollar a day, according to
the statistics office.  Tougher Stance  Oil accounts for about 80 percent of government revenue and
more than 90 percent of foreign income, according to the central
bank. The Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index has gained 32
percent this year, the second-best performer in Africa,
shrugging off the violence in the north.  Boko Haram started its violent campaign in the area in a
bid to impose Shariah law in Africa’s most populous country
following the death in 2009 of its leader,  Mohammed Yusuf . Yusuf
died in police custody after he was arrested during clashes
between militants and security forces. In May, Jonathan took a
tougher stance and declared emergency rule in Borno and two
other northeastern states, saying Boko Haram was taking over
parts of the area.  The  United Nations  says more than 8,000 people displaced in
the region have fled into neighboring Niger, Cameroon and Chad.  Burned Down  When the Boko Haram fighters arrived in Mallam Fatori in
November, they raised their black, red and green flags over the
town and went house to house killing anyone suspected of being
linked to the government, Manu said. “Some of my neighbors who
work with the local government authority were killed,” he said.  The military has denied it targeted civilians, saying Boko
Haram fighters sometimes wear fake military uniforms to
impersonate troops. Six civilians, a soldier and 30 insurgents
were killed, and 30 houses were burned down, the army said.  While Manu welcomes the declaration of emergency rule, he
says people are “also afraid of the excesses of soldiers.”  “They always shoot indiscriminately whenever there is an
attack by Boko Haram members,” he said. This has resulted in
civilian deaths on the road to Maiduguri on which he traveled
often to fetch rice, beans, tinned goods and soap for his shop,
he said.  Past Experience  Without cooperation with neighboring Niger,  Chad  and
Cameroon, the militants can cross borders without being noticed.  “It’s going to be like the proverbial balloon: you squeeze
here, the air goes somewhere else,” said Pham.  “The military operation will likely cause the militants to
become scattered across the territory and indeed beyond the
territory,” said Barclay.  Past experience shows that after every battle won against
the militants, the “handful that survived came back even
stronger,” said Pham. Boko Haram’s capabilities were
strengthened following the 2009 government crackdown and may be
undergo a similar change after the current military campaign, he
said.  Musa Maina, a 39-year-old farmer in the town of Banki on
the border with Cameroon, said the sense of isolation has
intensified since the government cut off mobile-phone
communication under the emergency. The government hasn’t
provided basic services such as roads, water or health centers
and to make calls “we have been using Cameroonian
telecommunications services,” he said.  With his family’s life and routines disrupted by the
violence, Manu’s wish is for a quick return to peace.  “My children are no longer in school. Feeding is now a
major problem,” he said. “I’m only living with my relatives
doing nothing until the military operation subsides.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Gbenga Akingbule in Maiduguri at 
 gakingbule@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  