-- Nike’s Second in Command to Retire Amid Management Shift
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2013-06-21T20:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/nike-names-sprunk-coo-says-denson-to-retire.html
Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest
sporting-goods maker, announced a slew of management changes
that included repositioning several current executives and the
retirement of its second-in-command.  Charlie Denson , a 34-year veteran and president of the Nike
brand, will retire in January and be replaced from within the
company by Trevor Edwards on July 1, Beaverton, Oregon-based
Nike said yesterday in a statement. Nike also promoted Eric Sprunk to the new position of chief operating officer.  Edwards has “some very big shoes to fill, but they have a
very strong, deep management team,” said Brian Yarbrough, an
analyst with Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis  who has a hold
rating on the company’s shares.  While Nike’s sales rebounded after the recession, with
revenue surging 16 percent to $24.1 billion in the fiscal year
ended in May 2012, growth has slowed in the past three quarters.
Revenue in  China , Nike’s second-largest market, has declined and
the company replaced the head of its business there in May.  Nike fell 0.3 percent to $60.57 at the close in New York.
The shares have gained 17 percent this year, compared with a 12
percent advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Denson started at the company in 1979 as an assistant
manager of one of its original stores. From there, he worked his
way up in the sales department and eventually became head of the
Nike brand and co-president of the company with  Mark Parker  in
2001. Parker then became chief executive officer in 2006,
replacing William Perez.  Sprunk, currently executive vice president of merchandising
and product, will lead all manufacturing, sourcing and
 information technology  for the company. He joined the company in
1993.  Retail Stores  Edwards, currently executive vice president of brand and
category management, will succeed Denson as Nike brand president
with expanded responsibilities that include overseeing the
company’s retail stores and e-commerce. Edwards has been with
Nike since 1992.  Those two areas were previously run by Jeanne Jackson in
her role as president of direct-to-consumer. Jackson moves into
another new position, president of product and merchandising.
The former Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Gap Inc. executive will
oversee the creation of all footwear, apparel and equipment. She
joined Nike management in 2009 after eight years on the board.  Nike also moved Thomas Clarke to president of innovation, a
new position, from president of new business development.  Gary DeStefano, president of global operations, will retire
on July 29 after 31 years at the company. His responsibilities
will be taken by Elliott Hill as president of geographies and
sales and by Sprunk and Edwards.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  