-- Norway Signals Rate May Be Cut to Boost Inflation
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n   a n d   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-06-20T09:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/norway-signals-rate-may-be-cut-to-boost-inflation.html
Norges Bank signaled an increased
chance for an  interest rate  cut this year as inflation is slower
than projected amid weakening economic growth in western
 Europe ’s largest oil producer. The krone slumped.  The  overnight deposit rate  was kept at 1.5 percent for an
eighth meeting, the Oslo-based bank said today. The decision was
predicted by 21 of the 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg,
while one had foreseen a cut. The bank predicted that the rate
will be 1.38 percent in the fourth quarter of this year and
remain below the current level until the fourth quarter of 2014.  “The analyses suggest that the key policy rate be kept
lower than projected earlier,” Governor Oeystein Olsen said.
“There are prospects that the key policy rate will remain at
the current level, or somewhat lower, in the year ahead.”  Norway’s $480 billion economy is starting to suffer from
the fallout of the euro area’s shrinking economy, pushing
unemployment to the highest since May 2010 as companies also
struggle with a surging krone and manufacturing labor costs that
are nearly 70 percent higher than the European Union average.  The krone slid as much as 1.7 percent per euro, and was
down 1.5 percent at 7.7900 per euro as of 11:26 a.m. in Oslo. It
was the biggest loser against the common currency among the 15
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the largest Nordic lender, said the new
rate forecasts imply a 50 percent chance of a cut in September.  Significantly Lower  “The rate path is significantly lower than we had
expected,” said  Erik Bruce , an economist at Nordea, in an e-mail. “Norges Bank has revised down its forecast for wage cost
growth more significantly than we had expected. Add to this that
it has based its forecast on an increase in bank’s lending
margins compared to March.”  After cutting twice, Olsen has kept the benchmark unchanged
for more than a year while saying the bank is ready to act to
prevent krone gains from undermining its inflation target and
the economy. The krone has now slid 6.2 percent this year versus
the euro as the bank also in March warned rates may be cut.  The bank, which targets 2.5 percent inflation, today said
underlying inflation will be below 2 percent through 2016.
Mainland economic growth, which excludes oil and gas production,
will slow to 2.5 percent this year, before picking up to 2.75
percent next year, the bank also forecast.  Stoltenberg Concerned  “The Norwegian economy is robust and we have secured a
different development to that of the other European countries,”
Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said at a press conference
today. “Even so, I’m concerned over three tendencies,
increasing unemployment, falling exports to Europe and declining
investments in industry.”  Norwegian policy makers have been reluctant to ease further
after cutting in 2011 and 2012 as low rates spur household
borrowing and push private debt levels to records.  House prices 
in western Europe’s largest oil exporter have doubled since 2002
and private debt burdens will swell to more than 200 percent of
disposable incomes this year, the bank estimates.  The bank’s efforts to bring inflation toward target by
capping krone gains paid off last month as headline price growth
accelerated to 2 percent, the highest since January 2011.  They have also been shackled in keeping rates low as
central banks around the world have eased policy to record lows,
enacted unprecedented stimulus measures and intervened in
 currency markets .  The U.S. Federal Reserve said yesterday it will keep buying
bonds at a pace of $85 billion a month and said that risks to
the economy have decreased. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  also
said that the U.S. central bank will probably taper its monthly
bond buying later in 2013 and halt purchases around mid-2014 as
long as the economy performs in line with projections.  “Norges Bank has become significantly more pessimistic and
today’s rate path clearly increases the probability for a rate
cut this autumn,” said Kjersti Haugland, an economist at  DNB
ASA (DNB)  in Oslo. “Our forecast is for the bank to keep rates
unchanged until December 2014.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  