-- O’Key Would Be ‘Potentially Attractive’ to Wal-Mart: CEO
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-06-21T07:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/o-key-would-be-potentially-attractive-to-wal-mart-ceo-says.html
O’Key Group SA (OKEY) ’s chief executive
officer said the 85-store Russian hypermarket chain would make a
good fit for  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  should the world’s largest
retailer revive its interest in the country.  “We are a potentially attractive acquisition target for
Wal-Mart,” CEO Patrick Longuet said in an interview in a Moscow
hotel, while adding that O’Key’s controlling shareholders don’t
plan to sell because the business has high growth potential.  Wal-Mart has previously shown interest in the Russian
retail market, which grew by 5.9 percent to 21.3 trillion rubles
($648 billion) in 2012. The Bentonville, Arkansas-based company
was beaten to the acquisition of discounter Kopeyka by X5 Retail
Group NV in 2010 and later closed its Moscow office after saying
disagreements on price thwarted acquisitions. Spokesman  Kevin Gardner  declined to comment on Longuet’s remarks via e-mail.  “Being smaller than Russia’s top five retailers, O’Key is
probably seeking to team up with an experienced larger player to
keep growing at a fast pace,” said Natalya Kolupaeva, an
analyst at ZAO Raiffeisenbank in Moscow. “Wal-Mart may be still
interested in the Russian market as it offers growth, while U.S.
retail is stagnating.”  An international retailer wanting to enter the Russian
market would find it difficult to do from scratch, said Longuet,
who joined the Luxembourg-based retailer from  France ’s Groupe
Auchan in March 2007. “It will need to buy local chains.”  Auchan and  Metro AG (MEO)  are the only non-Russian retailers
present among the country’s top 10 food retailers, ranking third
and fourth, respectively, behind X5 and OAO  Magnit. (MGNT)  O’Key ranks
at number six, behind OAO Dixy Group.  Billionaire Owners  X5’s former CEO Lev Khasis is leading Wal-Mart’s efforts to
introduce new store formats in overseas markets, a position he
was appointed to at the beginning of this year.  Billionaires Dmitry Korzhev and Dmitry Troitsky own about
54 percent of O’Key, which they founded in 2001 and whose market
value has risen 54 percent to $3.1 billion in the past year. The
stock rose 0.9 percent to $11.50 at 8:46 a.m. in London trading.  O’Key spokesman Artem Gluschenko declined to provide
contact information for Korzhev and Troitsky.  The retailer plans to spend 50 billion rubles to double its
selling space to about 800,000 square meters (8.6 million square
feet) by the end of 2015 and has a goal to double revenue by
2016, Longuet said. Sales last year were about $3.8 billion.  About two-thirds of O’Key’s stores are hypermarkets -- the
company opened its 54th in April -- providing a strong presence
in the most under-penetrated part of the industry, Longuet said.  Russia  has four hypermarkets per 1 million of population
compared with 14 in  Europe  on average, according to Euromonitor.  Real Stores  Retailers including billionaire Sergey Galitskiy’s Magnit,
TPG Capital-backed Lenta LLC, Auchan and Metro are expanding
their hypermarket businesses in Russia. The country had 730 of
the large-format outlets at the beginning of this year and that
number may increase to 1,200 by the end of 2015, according to
St. Peterburg-based researcher INFOLine.  O’Key looked at Metro’s Real stores in Russia last year,
though was deterred because the German retailer wanted to sell
them with the rest of Real’s eastern European stores, Longuet
said. Auchan bought the outlets in  Poland ,  Romania , Russia and
Ukraine for 1.1 billion euros ($1.5 billion).  About 70 percent of O’Key’s investment over the next three
years will be spent on building hypermarkets, the CEO said. The
rest will go on a new format of  discount stores , a chain of
express supermarkets and store maintenance, he said.  Growth Aspirations  O’Key, which has a third of its hypermarkets in  St.
Petersburg , decided to develop a new smaller store concept in
the higher-income Moscow region, where planning regulations and
a greater density of population leaves less land to build
hypermarkets. The first stores will open by the end of 2014 once
the grocer finds locations and builds a warehouse, Longuet said.  O’Key is targeting same-store sales growth of 6 percent to
7 percent a year, led by inflation and supported by an increase
of about 1 percent a year in shopper numbers, the CEO said.  The retailer’s growth aspirations should be treated “with
caution as the company has a track-record of missing its own
growth targets and delaying store openings,” said Kolupaeva,
the Raiffeisenbank analyst. “Lenta is rolling out new
hypermarkets at a faster pace and would probably be more favored
by investors once it holds an IPO.”  Lenta selected five banks to manage a possible initial
public offering, two people familiar with the matter said this
month. Lenta may be worth more than O’Key at about $5 billion as
it owns a higher portion of its stores as opposed to renting
them, according to UralSib Capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  