-- Obama Said to Announce Comey as FBI Pick Tomorrow
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-06-20T20:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/obama-said-to-announce-comey-as-fbi-pick-tomorrow.html
President Barack Obama will announce
tomorrow that he’s nominating James Comey, a former deputy
attorney general in the Bush administration, as FBI director,
according to an administration official.  Obama will make the announcement at the White House, said
the official, who asked not to be identified to discuss the
matter before it was formally released.  Comey would come to the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation at
a particularly sensitive time, as officials manage inquiries
into the  Boston Marathon bombings , Internal Revenue Service
screening of small-government groups and leaks about
confidential government operations.  If confirmed by the Senate, Comey would replace  Robert Mueller , who stayed on for two years after his 10-year term
expired in 2011. Mueller plans to leave in September.  Comey, 52, was general counsel at defense contractor
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and then hedge fund Bridgewater Associates
LP after he left the government in 2005. Most recently he was
appointed to the board of London-based bank  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  as
a nonexecutive director.  He was selected as Obama’s choice to lead the FBI over  Lisa Monaco , White House counterterrorism and homeland security
adviser, who coordinated the administration’s response to the
April 15 attack on the Boston Marathon and previously worked as
chief of staff to Mueller.  Republican lawmakers have signaled that Comey will not face
a tough confirmation battle.  Wiretapping Debate  Comey’s role in a dramatic episode during President  George W. Bush ’s administration -- when he refused to reauthorized a
warrantless eavesdropping program after being pressured by White
House officials -- has won him support among Democrats in
Congress as well.  At the time, Attorney General John Ashcroft was
hospitalized, and Bush’s White House advisers were attempting to
persuade him to reauthorize the program. Comey, with Mueller,
went to his hospital room to intercept the White House aides
seeking Ashcroft’s approval. Ashcroft said he had concerns about
the legality of the plan and deferred the decision to Comey, who
refused the request.  In testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee in
2007, Comey called the experience “the most difficult time in
my professional life.”  The program was revised after Comey, Mueller and other top
Justice Department officials threatened to resign if it was
reauthorized without their sign-off.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  