-- Obama’s Modest Goals Obscured by Conflicts on Europe Trip
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-06-20T02:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/obama-s-modest-goals-obscured-by-conflicts-on-europe-trip.html
President  Barack Obama  traveled to
Europe with his expectations set low. He met them.  Obama and other western leaders were unable to move Russian
President  Vladimir Putin  to take a stronger stand on Syria, and
Russian officials scoffed at the U.S. president’s aspirational
call to cut nuclear weapons arsenals.  At the Group of Eight industrial nations summit in
Enniskillen,  Northern Ireland , and then in Berlin, Obama also
faced questions from U.S. allies about National Security Agency
surveillance of international Internet data.  Those conflicts obscured some of the progress the U.S. was
able to make on economic issues over the last three days,
including moving forward on a free-trade agreement with the
European Union and commitments to stamp out bank secrecy and
deter tax avoidance.  “His objectives and deliverables were appropriately
modest,” said  Charles Kupchan , a senior fellow at the  Council
on Foreign Relations  in  Washington . “This is not a moment when
Obama has an opportunity to hit a home run, and I think his trip
was modulated accordingly.”  The centerpiece of Obama’s three-day trip was his address
yesterday at the  Brandenburg Gate  in Berlin. The setting, where
the  Berlin Wall  once stood, evoked high moments in the trans-Atlantic alliance and historic presidential declarations of U.S.
moral purpose in global affairs.  Distant Dream  “So long as nuclear weapons exist, we are not truly
safe,” he told a crowd, as he squinted in the sunshine to read
 his speech  on paper after the teleprompter failed. “Peace with
justice means pursuing the security of a world without nuclear
weapons -- no matter how distant that dream may be.”  Under the terms of the 2010 New Strategic Arms Reduction
Treaty known as New START, the U.S. and  Russia  are limited to
1,550 deployed strategic warheads each by 2018. Obama is
proposing that those numbers be cut by a third.  His plea was rejected by the Russians within hours, and
then questioned later in the day by Republicans in the  U.S.
Congress .  Deputy Prime Minister  Dmitry Rogozin  said that Russia can’t
reduce its strategic arms while the U.S. builds missile-defense
systems, which long have been a point of friction between the
two nations.  “Development of the shield and the sword are mutually
interconnected,” Rogozin told reporters in  St. Petersburg .
“Not to understand this is either lie, bluff or demonstration
of deep unprofessionalism.”  U.S. Reaction  Any new treaty would be subject to ratification by the  U.S.
Senate , and the reaction from Republicans in Congress was
equally negative.  “The president’s announcement without first fulfilling
commitments on modernization could amount to unilateral
disarmament,” Republican Senator  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee  said
in a statement.  A Pentagon report released yesterday said the U.S. will
maintain its “nuclear triad” of intercontinental ballistic
missiles, submarine-launched ballistic missiles and nuclear-capable bombers.  While Obama and Putin discussed nuclear non-proliferation
when they held a face-to-face meeting June 17 at the G-8, their
differences over Syria spilled out into the open as they faced
television cameras side-by-side in Northern Ireland.  Obama called them “different perspectives.” Putin said
that “our opinions do not coincide” and warned against sending
military equipment to the Syrian opposition, a step that the
U.S. has announced it will take.  Putin’s Position  “There’s a total lack of understanding of what America
wants to achieve in Syria.” said Fedor Lukyanov, the editor of
the Moscow-based publication Russia in Global Affairs. “Russia
is still very firm in its position that any change of status quo
in Syria would be worse.”  Putin’s position “didn’t change it at all,” he said.  The G-8 leaders eventually agreed to a statement calling
for a transitional government in Syria that went no further than
one issued in Geneva in June 2012 by the United Nations-sponsored Syria Action Group. While the U.S., U.K. and France
have declared there is solid evidence that Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad’s regime used chemical arms against the rebels,
the G-8 statement called for an investigation.  Obama also had to address the U.S. National Security Agency
programs that sweep telephone numbers and Internet data.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  brought up one of the
programs, called Prism, during a news conference with Obama in
Berlin yesterday.  Surveillance Concerns  “There are people who have concerns about this,
particularly about the possibility of data collection on a vast
scale,” Merkel said. “The questions that aren’t clarified we
will continue to discuss.”  Prism monitors the Internet activity of foreigners believed
to be located outside the U.S. and plotting terrorist attacks,
and Obama defended it by saying the surveillance has saved lives
without impinging on personal privacy.  “This is not a situation in which we are rifling through
the ordinary e-mails of German citizens or American citizens or
French citizens or anybody else,” Obama said.  Obama’s approval ratings held steady after the surveillance
revelations, according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted
June 12-16 that found 49 percent approving of how he’s handling
his job as president and 43 percent disapproving. That compares
with 51 percent approving and 43 percent disapproving in a Pew
poll last month before the NSA programs were exposed. The  latest
survey  of 1,512 adults in the U.S. had an error margin of plus
or minus 2.9 percentage points.  Trade Deal  The main achievement of the  Europe  trip was progress on
trade. Obama announced that the U.S. would be the host for the
first round of negotiations on the Transatlantic Trade and
Investment Partnership, a free trade deal with the European
Union that Obama has been pursuing to complement a similar pact
with Pacific nations.  The U.S. and the EU represent almost half of the global
economy. The European Commission estimates an agreement, which
might take two years to close, would generate annual economic
benefits of 119 billion euros ($158 billion) for Europe and $126
billion (95 billion euros) to the U.S.  “That, in a sense, beat expectations because most people
thought that the French objections over the cultural
sensitivities was going to scupper the deal,” said Matthew P.
Goodman, a former Obama administration official who holds the
William E. Simon Chair in Political Economy at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in Washington. “But it got
off the ground, and I think that is an important development.”  Tax Avoidance  European nations also are moving toward a common standard
on tax-data reporting in response to new requirements for doing
business with the U.S.  “The goal of cracking down on tax avoidance, bringing
greater transparency to it, is something that we have pursued in
the  United States ,”  Ben Rhodes , Obama’s deputy national
security adviser, told reporters.  G-8 nations adopted a common approach to standards for
cross-border disclosure and tax-data sharing, saying they will
publish “national action plans to make information on who
really owns and profits from companies and trusts available to
tax collection and law enforcement agencies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Berlin at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Berlin at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  