-- Moncler Said to Pick Six Firms Led by Goldman, BofA to Run IPO
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i ,   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-06-20T15:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/moncler-said-to-pick-six-firms-led-by-goldman-bofa-to-run-ipo.html
Moncler picked six securities firms
led by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to
manage an initial public offering as soon as this year,
according to three people with direct knowledge of the plan.  The offering may raise 800 million euros ($1 billion) to 1
billion euros as investors sell 30 percent to 35 percent of the
company, one person said.  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  will also be a global
coordinator of the IPO, while  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  will be joint bookrunners along with the
global coordinators, said the people, who asked not to be
identified before the company makes an announcement.  Moncler is planning an IPO in  Italy  for the second time in
two years, allowing French private-equity firm Eurazeo to reduce
its stake after it bought 45 percent of the company in 2011 when
the maker of ski jackets abandoned the earlier listing. The 
purchase, in which Eurazeo replaced  Carlyle Group  as Moncler’s 
largest investor, valued the clothier at no less than 1.2 
billion euros.  An external spokeswoman for Eurazeo and a spokesman for
Milan-based Moncler, Domenico Galluccio, declined to comment on
the IPO plans.  Moncler may separate the luxury apparel brand from its
other clothing businesses ahead of the IPO, Chairman Remo Ruffini said in an interview in October. In addition to selling
$1,395 ski jackets and $995 handbags under the Moncler brand, 
Moncler also owns the Marina Yachting, Henry Cotton’s and Coast 
Weber & Ahaus sportswear labels, and holds the license for 
Cerruti 1881.  Sales of the Moncler brand increased 35 percent to 489
million euros last year, and accounted for 78 percent of the
total. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization at the group level rose 39 percent to 170 million
euros in 2012.  Officials for Bank of America, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan,
Mediobanca and UBS declined to comment. An official for Intesa
couldn’t immediately be reached.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Remondini at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  