-- Hong Kong’s Curbs Exacerbates Housing Supply Shortage, JLL Says
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   A l a n   W o n g
-- 2013-06-20T09:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/hong-kong-s-curbs-exacerbates-housing-supply-shortage-jll-says.html
The Hong Kong government’s measures
to curb real estate  prices  are deterring existing homeowners
from selling their properties, exacerbating a shortage of
housing supply in the city, according to  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)   The government should replace the extra tax imposed on all
homes resold within three years after purchases with a capital
gain tax, and scrap a February move to double stamp duty taxes
on all properties, Joseph Tsang, Hong Kong-based managing
director at the world’s second-biggest commercial realtor, said
in a briefing today.  Home prices  in the city have more than doubled since early
2009 to become the world’s highest, spurring a slew of
government curbs as the risks of a property bubble increased.
Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying said this month that
the government will ignore pressure to remove the measures until
there’s a steady supply of new homes.  The measures “are making it more costly to sell homes,”
Tsang said. “Many people don’t realize housing supply not only
comes from new units, but existing units as well. All the
measures have done is stifling transactions and is not helping
people to buy their own homes.”  Home transactions  in  Hong Kong  fell for a third consecutive
month in May, according to land registry figures. They dropped
to 3,286 in December, the lowest since November 2008. Prices
have dropped 1 percent from March, according to an index
compiled by Centaline Property Agency Ltd.  Reaching Peak  Since 2010, the government has imposed measures, including
various extra transaction taxes and higher minimum mortgage down
payment requirement, to address concerns that housing is
becoming unaffordable for the general public.  U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke yesterday
signaled to investors that the central bank is prepared to begin
phasing out its monetary easing programs later this year. Hong
Kong’s interest rates track those of the U.S. because of the
city’s currency peg.  “Even if we lift all cooling measures and do nothing, the
housing market would fall,” said Tsang. “ Interest rate  is
rising and the  U.S. economy  is strengthening. The Hong Kong
housing market has reached the peak of the cycle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  