-- Hong Kong Exchanges May List Cash-Settled Commodity Contracts
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-06-20T11:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/hong-kong-exchanges-may-list-cash-settled-commodity-contracts.html
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) ,
the world’s second-largest bourse operator, said it plans to
list commodity futures that are settled in cash.  The new contracts may be  iron ore , coking coal and
agricultural products and denominated in the Chinese currency, a
spokesman said by phone today. The exchange has yet to set a
start date, he said.  Hong Kong  Exchanges, led by Chief Executive Officer Charles Li, bought the London Metal Exchange, the world’s largest metals
bourse, last year for $2.2 billion to expand into commodities.
The purchase may help it increase business in  China , the biggest
consumer of energy and metals from steel to copper and aluminum.  The initial products would be cash-settled because to take
whatever contracts are traded in  London  to Hong Kong would only
spread liquidity and not benefit the business, the spokesman
said. The products could be derivatives of those in London and
be based on the needs of market users, not just China, he said.  The LME trades physically delivered futures in metals
ranging from copper and aluminum to nickel and tin.  The exchange will also work with bourses on the Chinese
mainland to see if their products can be brought to Hong Kong on
a Hong Kong platform or whether international contracts can be
taken to the mainland, the spokesman said. There are no specific
details at this point, he said.  Hong Kong Exchanges shares fell 0.8 percent to HK$121.10
today, the third consecutive daily decline. The benchmark  Hang
Seng Index  slumped 2.9 percent. The  bourse  is the world’s
second-largest after CME Group Inc. by market value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  