-- Top Serb Coalition Party May Seek Early Vote If Cuts Delayed
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-06-20T14:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/top-serb-coalition-party-may-seek-early-vote-if-cuts-delayed.html
The largest party in  Serbia ’s
coalition government said it will probably seek early elections
if its coalition partners falter on cuts to administration,
public spending and support for money-losing companies.  The Serbian Progressive Party, with 65 of 250 seats in
parliament, hopes the Cabinet of Socialist Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic  will stay united on measures presented yesterday to keep
the budget gap at 4.7 percent of economic output and lure
investments, while selling or phasing out 179 companies with
54,000 workers, said Milenko Dzeletovic, the head of the party’s
economic council.  “There won’t be any compromise, even if it means calling
early elections,” Dzeletovic told reporters in Belgrade today.  The party of former nationalists, led by deputy Prime
Minister Aleksandar Vucic, is also set to seek elections if the
European Union fails to give Serbia a date for the start of
membership talks at a June 27-28 EU summit in Brussels, Serbian
state newswire Tanjug cited Radomir Nikolic, the party’s top
official, as saying. Nikolic is the son of President  Tomislav Nikolic .  Serbia and Kosovo -- a province which broke away from
Serbia and declared independence in 2008 -- reached an EU-brokered deal on April 19, paving the way to reconciliation
after years of conflict.  Serbia and  Kosovo  had until June 15 to work out power
sharing in telecommunications and energy and for progress in
clarifying the fate of people missing since a war that ended in
1999. There still aren’t any agreements on telecommunications or
electricity.  Dacic and Vucic will meet EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  and Kosovo’s Premier Hashim Thaci tonight in Brussels for
talks on how to implement the April agreement before Ashton
informs EU member on progress achieved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  