-- Morgan Stanley Said to Cut 10% of Commodities Jobs Amid Rut
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-06-20T21:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/morgan-stanley-said-to-cut-commodities-jobs-as-revenue-declines.html
Morgan Stanley is cutting jobs in
its commodities business, one of the Wall Street’s three
biggest, after Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  said revenue
the past two quarters was among the unit’s worst in 18 years.  The bank is shutting businesses including agricultural
products and dry freight, according to an internal memo today
from Colin Bryce and  Simon Greenshields , co-heads of the unit.
Morgan Stanley will cut about 30 to 35 jobs in commodities, or
10 percent of its workforce, according to a person briefed on
the matter who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public.  Gorman said last week that he’s “carefully re-evaluating’’
the proper structure for the commodities unit after holding
talks with Qatar’s sovereign-wealth fund last year about selling
a stake in the business. The past two quarters have been among
the worst for commodities since 1995, he said. The company
doesn’t disclose the unit’s revenue in financial reports.  “The overall performance of the business can and will be
improved,” Gorman, 54, said on June 12. “We continue to
explore strategic structures that may make sense for us.”  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is also closing its Australian power
business and exiting some Eastern European markets for power and
gas, according to the memo, a copy of which was obtained by
 Bloomberg News . Mark Lake, a spokesman for the New York-based
bank, confirmed the memo’s contents and declined to comment
further. The job cuts were reported earlier today by the
Financial Times.  ‘Cyclical Factors’  Morgan Stanley is consolidating client coverage in  London 
and  Singapore  and won’t have commodities employees in Dubai or
 Shanghai , the person briefed on the moves said.  The 10 largest global investment banks generated $6 billion
in revenue from commodities trading last year, according to data
from analytics firm Coalition Ltd. That’s less than half the $14
billion they produced in 2008. Morgan Stanley is one of the top
three banks in revenue from commodities, according to Coalition.  “Much of this decrease is due to cyclical factors, and we
firmly believe that the cycle will turn again in our favor,”
Bryce and Greenshields wrote in the memo. “However, the revenue
pool has also been impacted by certain secular headwinds -- such
as increased regulatory compliance and capital costs.”  The commodities unit sees opportunities in products related
to shale gas and North American fertilizer and will move
resources to the power and gas business in  New York , according
to the memo. The business will also increase its retail-products
offering for the firm’s wealth-management division, according to
the memo.  Shares Fall  Morgan Stanley slid 3.7 percent to close at $25.15 in New
York. The shares have gained 32 percent this year, outpacing the
16 percent advance of the 82-company Standard & Poor’s 500
Financials Index.  Gorman has set a goal of reducing the capital used by
fixed-income and commodities trading by about 60 percent from
its peak as he seeks to improve returns. The unit cut its
capital usage by about half from the peak through March,
according to company reports.  Commodities, which had a return on equity of less than 5
percent last year, was the only one of five fixed-income units
for which Gorman didn’t lay out a return-on-equity target in a
presentation last week. He said the unit had a historical
average ROE of more than 10 percent.  The U.S. Dodd-Frank Act limits the firm’s ability to
acquire physical commodities, he said. Morgan Stanley owns
electricity-generating facilities in the U.S. and  Europe . It
also owns TransMontaigne Inc., a fuel distributor based in
Denver, and a 49 percent stake in ship operator Heidmar Inc.  Slowing Demand  Investors pulled a record $23.3 billion from commodity
funds this year through May 30 as equities attracted $182
billion, according to EPFR Global, which tracks money flows.  Signs of slowing demand in  China  and ample supplies after
expanded production of many raw materials signal “death bells”
this year for the commodities supercycle, a longer-than-average
period of rising prices, Citigroup Inc. said last month. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG have made
similar forecasts.  Commodities tumbled by the most in six weeks today, with
gold, crude oil and copper dropping after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank may start
tapering bond purchases that have fueled gains in markets
globally and a private report showed manufacturing in China
shrank at a faster pace.  “Although the recent market environment has created some
challenges, both of us remain very constructive with respect to
the division’s future prospects,” Bryce and Greenshields wrote.
The changes will “help us refocus and capitalize on the new and
existing opportunities for growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  