-- Mortgage Rates Fall From 14-Month High as Increase Looms
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-06-20T14:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/mortgage-rates-fall-from-14-month-high-as-increase-looms.html
U.S. mortgage rates fell for the
first time in seven weeks, a move down that’s likely to be
temporary as the Federal Reserve considers scaling back its bond
purchases amid signs of an improving economy.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage fell to 3.93
percent from 3.98 percent last week, McLean, Virginia-based
 Freddie Mac (FMCC)  said in a statement. The average 15-year rate
decreased to 3.04 percent from 3.1 percent.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said yesterday that risks to
the economy have decreased and policy makers could end bond
purchases next year, sending  yields  for 10-year Treasuries, a
benchmark for consumer debt, to a 15-month high. Mortgage rates
for 30-year loans have jumped to the highest since April 2012 on
speculation the stimulus may be reduced, increasing borrowing
costs for homebuyers as competition for a tight  inventory  of
properties pushes up prices.  “As interest rates begin to rise from their historic lows,
some demand may also ebb from the market as home purchases
become more expensive to finance,” Stan Humphries, chief
economist for  Zillow Inc. (Z) , said in a statement today. “While we
believe the housing recovery will remain strong, home value
appreciation will slow down, and buyers in it for the short term
could get burned if they assume home values will continue rising
as they have unabated.”  Home Sales  Zillow, a Seattle-based real estate research company,
reported that U.S. home values rose 5.4 percent in the 12 months
through May. Sales of  previously owned  U.S. homes climbed more
than forecast in May to the highest level since November 2009
and the median price jumped 15.4 percent from a year earlier to
the highest in almost five years, the National Association of
Realtors said today.  Bernanke yesterday suggested the housing market may be
strong enough to withstand higher borrowing costs. Asked by a
reporter whether rates exceeding 4 percent would derail the
rebound, Bernanke said that “one important difference now is
that people are more optimistic about housing” and surveys show
they expect prices to climb further.  “And that, you know, compensates to some extent for a
slightly higher mortgage rate,” he said.  This week’s rate doesn’t fully reflect the market’s
reaction to Bernanke’s comments because the Freddie Mac weekly
data is mostly collected from Monday to Wednesday.  While rising interest rates have had little impact on
purchases, they appear to be slowing  refinancing . The share of
home-loan applicants seeking to refinance was 68.7 percent for
the week through June 14, down from 76 percent in the beginning
of May, when rates hovered near record lows, according to the
Washington-based Mortgage Bankers Association.  The record rate for a 30-year loan is 3.31 percent, reached
in November, according to Freddie Mac. The 15-year average fell
to a record-low 2.56 percent last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  