-- How Drug Dealers’ Failed Lime Foray Is Carstens’ Victory
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-06-20T18:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/how-drug-gangs-failed-lime-foray-is-carstens-win-mexico-credit.html
The Mexican army is helping central
bank Governor Agustin Carstens rein in inflation.  The annual rate of inflation  fell  for the first time in
four months to 4.63 percent in May, with lime prices dropping
the most since April 2011, after the government sent troops to
western Mexico to ensure the safety of farmers who were being
extorted by drug cartels. The prices of the fruit, which
accompanies everything from tacos to beer and salsa, doubled in
the first four months of 2013 as barricades set up by the
farmers to protect themselves disrupted shipments from the
nation’s biggest lime-producing region.  Bond traders have cut their expectations for cost-of-living
increases from a six-month high earlier this month as the drop
in food prices bolsters confidence Carstens will slow inflation
to the nation’s 3 percent target. The so-called break-even rate,
based on the gap between yields of inflation-linked bonds due in
2014 and similar-maturity fixed-rate debt, has fallen 0.15
percentage point since June 6 to 3.63 percent.  “The region in Michoacan where limes are produced was
affected by security issues,”  Benito Berber , a New York-based
Latin America strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said by e-mail. “The impact on limes and therefore inflation is clear.
The intervention of the army in order to un-block some of the
roads was key” to transporting the limes and helping bring down
those prices, he said.  Ricardo Medina Macias, a spokesman for  Banco de Mexico ,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Extortion Fees  Limes’  weighting  in the inflation basket is 0.21 percent,
the second highest of all fresh fruits, according to the
national statistics agency.  The plunge in lime prices shaved 0.03 percentage point off
the  consumer price index  last month. Overall, the annual
inflation rate fell two basis points from 4.65 percent in April.  Villagers in farming towns in Michoacan took up arms
earlier this year against drug traffickers they say have been
terrorizing them for years and forcing them to pay extortion
fees for their crops and produce.  The armed brigades blocked passage to some roads leading
out of the state before the army’s deployment in mid-May, when a
deal was struck with the government to lift the barriers,
Interior Minister Miguel Osorio Chong said May 21.  ‘A Lie’  Lime distributor Tania Tamayo, 25, said she quadrupled
prices of the fruit she sells at  Mexico  City’s main wholesale
produce market when the blockade reduced supply. Her family,
which she says pays cartels 1,000 pesos ($75.74) per truckload
transported out of Michoacan, was cut off from the main lime-producing towns until the army was sent in, and prices have
since dropped.  “Saying that the weather caused this is a lie,” Tamayo
said, as workers dragged 24-kilo sacks of limes on their backs
into her family’s stall. “It was the conflict.”  Cesar Rodriguez, 26, who ships limes from Michoacan to sell
them in Mexico City, says when his truck drivers report being
extorted by drug traffickers along their route he’s forced to
raise his prices between 5 and 10 percent.  “Everything suggests that the pressures on lime prices
respond to activity related to organized crime,” Erick
Urtuzuastegui, an analyst at research provider Prognosis, said
in an e-mailed message. It’s a “good example of how the
violence related to drug traffickers has the potential to
influence the pricing of some goods and general inflation.”  Self-Enforcement  While the Milenio newspaper reported a 2.5 percent drop in
drug violence in the first four months of President Enrique Pena Nieto’s administration, communities in southern Mexico have
armed themselves and kidnapped law-enforcement officials, saying
police can’t protect them from cartels.  “The central part of our strategy is to guarantee the
security of the people,” National Defense Minister Salvador
Cienfuegos told reporters May 21 in Michoacan. “But at the same
time, we’re freeing up the ability to move around, allowing the
free transit of people, merchandise and vehicles.”  Mexico’s drug war has claimed more than 60,000 lives and
reduced economic growth by an estimated one percentage point
each year since the government began sending troops to fight
cartels in December 2006, deploying them first to Michoacan.  Bird Flu  Enrique Alvarez , the head of Latin America fixed-income at
IdeaGlobal, says that agricultural prices are beyond the control
of police and security forces, and other factors could lead
inflation to remain elevated.  The inflation rate climbed to a 30-month high of 4.77
percent in September as egg and chicken prices jumped amid a
bird flu epidemic and a drought pushed up corn prices.  “You have weather issues, growth issues and health issues
in the agricultural camp,” Alvarez said in a telephone
interview from New York. “It’s very uncertain what is going to
occur ahead.”  The extra yield that investors demand to hold Mexican
dollar bonds over  U.S. Treasuries  widened 13 basis points to 224
basis points at 2:39 p.m. in  New York , according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps climbed 10 basis points to
148 basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if the issuer
fails to comply with debt agreements.  The peso weakened 1.3 percent to 13.4160 per  U.S. dollar .  Tamayo, the lime distributor, said once shipping routes
were freed up, a surplus of limes flowed into her market stall,
pushing prices down close to record lows.  “There’s a saturation of limes now,” she said. “The army
came and everything grew calm.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  