-- HP Switches to Morrison Foerster Lawyers in Autonomy Suit
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-06-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/hp-switches-to-morrison-foerster-lawyers-in-autonomy-suit.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  changed its
lawyers in cases brought by investors who are suing over the
company’s $8.8 billion writedown related to the acquisition of
Autonomy Corp.  Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP lawyer Robert E. Gooding Jr. and
his team have been replaced by  Morrison & Foerster LLP ’s Darryl P. Rains and Judson E. Lobdell, according to a filing yesterday
in federal court in San Francisco.  Hewlett-Packard, the largest personal computer maker, faces
shareholder lawsuits stemming from its Nov. 20 announcement that
it was taking a multibillion-dollar writedown on the value of
British software maker Autonomy, which it agreed to buy for
$10.3 billion in 2011.  Rains represented  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  in shareholder
lawsuits over losses in its YieldPlus Fund.  San Francisco 
partner Lobdell represented Patricia Dunn, former chairwoman of
Hewlett-Packard, in a criminal case that was dismissed in 2007
and in related civil litigation.  Morgan Lewis partner Leslie Caldwell said by phone she will
continue to serve as Hewlett-Packard’s liaison to federal
prosecutors investigating whether Autonomy employees lied about
the company’s performance.  Accounting Practices  More than $5 billion of the writedown was the result of
accounting practices at Autonomy, Hewlett-Packard said in
November. About $200 million of Autonomy’s revenue had been
recorded prematurely or improperly, the company’s general
counsel said.  Michael Thacker, a spokesman for  Palo Alto , California-based Hewlett-Packard, declined to comment on the replacement of
the investor litigation lawyers on behalf of the company and its
general counsel’s office.  Jennifer Costa, a spokeswoman for  Morgan Lewis , declined to
comment on the firm’s replacement.  Rains declined to comment. Lobdell was out of the country
and couldn’t immediately be reached. Amy Merriweather, a
spokeswoman for Morrison & Foerster, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment.  Morgan Lewis, along with Slaughter and May, advised
Autonomy on the original acquisition by Hewlett-Packard.
Hewlett-Packard’s legal advisers on the deal included DLA
Piper LLP; Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP; Gibson, Dunn &
Crutcher LLP and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP.  The securities class action case is In Re HP Securities
Litigation, 12-cv-5980, and the derivative case is Riccardi v.
Lynch, 12-cv-06003, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Blumberg in San Francisco at 
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  