-- Pimco Favors Europe Commercial Mortgage Debt on Lending Recovery
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-06-20T11:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/pimco-favors-europe-commercial-mortgage-debt-on-lending-recovery.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, sees value in European
commercial mortgage-backed securities on signs of a lending
recovery in the recession-plagued region.  “There are opportunities in CMBS,” said Felix Blomenkamp,
portfolio manager and head of the European ABS team at Newport
Beach, California-based Pimco. “We see more commercial lending
activity coming back to the markets,” boosting the likelihood
that high-quality CMBS will be refinanced, he said by telephone
from Munich last week.  Investor appetite for bonds supported by commercial
mortgages is recovering from the one-two punch of the U.S.
subprime collapse followed by Europe’s fiscal crisis and
economic slump. Issuance of publicly-placed CMBS will rise more
than six-fold to 5 billion euros ($6.6 billion) this year from
the prior 12 months, Barclays Plc said in an April report.  Deutsche Bank AG, whose asset management unit has about 41
billion euros of property investments, is looking for
opportunities to buy Spanish and Italian offices and shops on
behalf of German institutional clients for the first time in
three years.  Investment  in European retail real estate jumped almost 60
percent to 5.1 billion euros in the first quarter from the same
period of 2012, according to research by Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  CMBS also look more attractive as spreads on prime
residential mortgage-backed securities narrow amid an issuance
lull, Blomenkamp said.  Relative Value  “We’ve seen a resurgence of CMBS,” said Chris Greener, a
London-based director in the EMEA fixed-income team at BlackRock
Inc. who was speaking at IMN’s Global ABS Conference in Brussels
today. “The fact that a couple of deals have been done and
placed throughout the capital structure, I think is very strong
for our market.”  European prime RMBS sales are likely to slump 50 percent
this year, according to Barclays, as central bank funding in the
U.K., traditionally the debt’s largest market, discourages
issuance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  