-- Planned Parenthood Sues Kansas Over Abortion Speech Law
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-06-20T22:51:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/planned-parenthood-sues-kansas-over-abortion-speech-law.html
New  Kansas  laws, including one
requiring abortion providers to tell patients the procedure ends
the life of a “separate, unique, living human being,” violate
the U.S. Constitution, a Planned Parenthood affiliate said in a
federal court complaint.  The affiliate and its medical director are also challenging
the legality of requirements that women seeking abortions be
told a fetus can feel pain after a certain point in development
-- whether their fetus is at that stage or not -- and mandating
that the affiliate add to its website a link to a  government
site  offering its own abortion viewpoint and requiring the group
to endorse it.  “Plaintiffs seek a judgment declaring that the above
requirements violate the rights of plaintiffs and their
patients, and seek appropriate injunctive relief,” the  Overland
Park , Kansas-based affiliate said in its complaint filed today
in federal court in  Kansas City , Kansas.  The legislation, signed by Republican Governor  Sam Brownback  on April 19, is set to take effect on July 1. Clint
Blaes, a spokesman for state Attorney General Derek Schmidt,
didn’t immediately reply to a voice-mail message seeking comment
on the lawsuit.  While Brownback isn’t a defendant in the case, Schmidt is
named in his official capacity, as are  Department of Health  and
Environment Secretary Robert Moser and Kimberly Templeton,
president of the Kansas Board of Healing Arts, a state licensing
agency.  ‘Informed Consent’  The legislation requires that no abortion be performed in
the state without the “voluntary and informed consent” of the
woman upon whom the procedure is to be performed. The measure
also contains a 24-hour waiting period at the outset of which
the patient must be given the pain-related statement in writing.  Failure to abide by the rules can result in medical license
suspension or revocation, according to the complaint.  Planned Parenthood ’s affiliate and its medical director,
Dr. Orrin Moore, seek a court order blocking enforcement of the
the measures it says are unconstitutional and declaring them
invalid.  The case is Comprehensive Health of Planned Parenthood of
Kansas and Mid-Missouri Inc. v. Templeton, 13-cv-02302, U.S.
District Court, District of Kansas (Kansas City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  