-- Price Cuts of Up to 20% Sought by U.K. on Some Medicines
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2013-06-20T16:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/price-cuts-of-up-to-20-sought-by-u-k-on-some-medicines.html
The U.K. Department of Health is
seeking price reductions of as much as 20 percent on brand-name
medicines as the government plans to save 11.5 billion pounds
($18 billion) in the 2015-16 spending year.  The cuts would apply to drugs not already covered by an
existing agreement between manufacturers and the government
known as the Pharmaceutical Price Regulation Scheme, or PPRS,
the department said today in a  statement  on its website. The
products outside the PPRS account for about 10 percent of the
branded medicines used in the U.K., according to the Association
of the British Pharmaceutical Industry.  The government, which runs the National Health Service and
is the largest payer for medicines in the U.K., said it will
also continue negotiating with the industry over the PPRS. Those
talks will include how the results of a review by the health-cost adviser, the National Institute for Health and Care
Excellence, would influence the price the NHS pays.  “We cannot simply spend more and more on drugs,” the
Department of Health’s Under Secretary of State Frederick Curzon, who sits in the House of Lords as Earl Howe, said in the
statement. “A drug that brings a lot of extra benefits may
justify the NHS paying more, but equally the NHS might pay less
for a drug that does not deliver wider benefits.”  The U.K. prices of medicines are among the lowest in Europe
and already provide good value to the NHS, the Association of
the British Pharmaceutical Industry said in a statement.  “The proportion of the NHS budget spent on new medicines
is set to fall in real terms over the coming years to the extent
that by 2015, medicines launched in the next three years will
account for less than 2 percent of the total medicines bill,”
the London-based group said. The talks on the PPRS are “ongoing
and remain confidential,” it said.  The government’s public  consultation  on pricing will end
July 31. The NHS is England’s  largest employer  with more than
1.4 million workers and accounts for about 109 billion pounds of
the U.K.’s budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  