-- Primus to Supply Batteries for Storage Test in Northwestern U.S.
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-06-20T12:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/primus-to-supply-batteries-for-storage-test-in-northwestern-u-s-.html
Primus Power Corp., a battery maker
backed by Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, plans to install two
shipping container-sized systems for a test project next year
that may store energy from intermittent sources such as wind.  The 250-kilowatt batteries will be able to store
electricity for as much as four hours, Primus Chief Executive
Officer Tom Stepien said in an interview yesterday. The systems
may provide backup power for a wind farm, the San Juan Islands, 
north of  Seattle , or a remote area “where there are some 
customer outages,” he said. The site hasn’t been decided.  Energy storage can help bank power from sources such as
wind farms and solar plants that don’t operate at all hours of
the day. Project-participant Bonneville Power Administration is
seeking to balance surplus hydro and wind power on its
transmission network and has invested about $2.5 million in
energy storage technologies in the last three years, spokesman
Joel Scruggs said yesterday.  The BPA, an agency of the U.S. Energy Department, markets
wholesale power from 31 federal hydro projects, operates
transmission lines in eight U.S. states and supplies about one
third of the electricity used in the Pacific Northwest,
according to its website.  Primus, based in Hayward,  California , will install its
batteries in utility Puget Sound Energy Inc.’s service
territory, according to a statement today. Puget Sound uses
BPA’s transmission system. Primus’s  flow batteries  consist of a
liquid electrolyte that’s cycled through a reaction chamber.  Warm weather exacerbates seasonal snow melt and increases
output at BPA’s hydro plants. The agency has curtailed wind
generation 46 times since 2011 to manage surplus power and avoid
redirecting water though spillways, which can endanger
federally-protected fish species, Scruggs said.  Primus’s $2.87 million project will be funded by the
battery maker, Puget Sound, the BPA and the Energy Department,
Stepien said. The BPA is providing $979,925, according to its
website. Stepien declined to say how much the other partners
will contribute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in San Francisco at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  