-- Primerica Channeling R. Kelly Packs Dome With Believers
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-06-20T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/primerica-channeling-r-kelly-packs-dome-with-believers.html
About 35,000 people waved towels and
banged inflatable noisemakers as  Primerica Inc. (PRI) ’s co-Chief
Executive Officer John Addison walked across the stage of the
Georgia Dome in front of exploding fireworks.  “What we need, Primerica needs, is you, you, you in your
seat right now, at your best to commit to go to a level you’ve
never been,” Addison shouted, pacing and pointing at the
salesmen and saleswomen who traveled to Atlanta at their own
expense for the insurer’s four-day conference last week. “We
are the answer. You are the answer. It’s our time.”  After a choir in red Primerica robes sang R. Kelly’s “I
Believe I Can Fly,” people lingered past midnight, talking,
hugging and dancing under confetti. A 25-year-old store clerk
with a full-sleeve tattoo who’d come from Modesto,  California ,
said in an interview that Primerica saved her life.  While other companies have cut back on hiring insurance
salespeople and stockbrokers to save money during the economic
slump, Primerica spreads its brand of financial evangelism with
about 90,000 mostly part-time representatives who pay $99 each
to sign up. Experienced brokers train new ones for free because
they earn commissions on their underlings’ sales in a multilevel
marketing system similar to Avon Products Inc. or  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)   Term Life  That’s paying off for investors. Primerica’s operating
profit margin last year was 25 percent, better than any of the
22 companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Insurance Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its stock has more than
doubled since  Citigroup Inc. (C)  started selling its stake to the
public in 2010.  While dwarfed in sales by more diversified insurers such as
 MetLife Inc. (MET)  and  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , Primerica is the
biggest provider of term life insurance in the U.S. based on
premiums collected, according to its annual report. The Duluth,
Georgia-based company issued 222,558 policies last year.  “Their business model is attractive,” Jeffrey Schuman, an
analyst at Stifel Financial Corp.’s KBW unit, said in a phone
interview. “It’s both lower risk and potentially higher return
than many other  life insurance  companies.”  With fewer people in the U.S. buying life insurance,
Primerica needs to expand its army of salespeople to keep its
stock climbing, Schuman said. That’s a challenge when more than
80 percent of the 200,000 people the company recruits a year
drop out without passing state licensing tests, according to a
February regulatory filing. For those who do, the odds of
success are still low, 12 former salespeople said in interviews.  No Salaries  “They want you to make it, but they know you’re not going
to,” said Phillip Bowers, 53, who left Primerica this year
after working for it on and off since 1989 near Nashville,
 Tennessee . “People would get into the business, bring their
friends and then after a while, the person who brought those
friends would quit.”  Bowers, who’s now a salesman for Principal Financial Group
Inc., said he never made more than about $50,000 a year, even
when he had dozens of people under him.  Primerica doesn’t pay salaries to its agents. They’re paid
when they make sales, or when those they sign up do, and on the
work of people their recruits hire, according to Mark Supic, a
company spokesman. When a new representative sells a $1,000-a-year policy, she makes $250, the person who hired her typically
makes at least that much, and the people above them get paid as
well. Primerica paid agents an average of $5,513 last year,
according to the company’s  website .  The company’s executives said they don’t like to be
described as a multilevel marketing organization. Primerica
isn’t like those “juice or soap companies,” because it doesn’t
pressure workers to buy its products, said Bill Kelly, head of
the firm’s investment business.  Championship Rings  When Primerica handed out diamond-studded championship
rings at the Georgia Dome to people who made more than $100,000
over 12 months for the first time, about 25 couples who had hit
the mark since December lined up on stage.  A senior who plays high school football has a better chance
of making the  National Football League  than a Primerica recruit
has of getting a ring, according to data compiled by the
players’ union.  Addison, 55, who joined the company 31 years ago, said in
an interview that Primerica doesn’t make money from recruiting
and that those determined to succeed have a fair chance.  “We work hard not to overhype,” Addison said. “We don’t
tell people they’re going to get rich. We tell people there’s a
shot for you to do something great.”  Weill Takeover  The company that’s now Primerica was founded in 1977 by
Arthur Williams, a former high school football coach. He built
it into the top issuer of life insurance in the U.S. by telling
consumers to trade their whole-life policies for less expensive
term insurance and invest the savings, according to his
autobiography. Term life insurance pays out if the buyer dies
within a certain period of time and expires worthless otherwise.
It’s cheaper than policies that also have investment components.  Sanford “Sandy” Weill, who built what would become
Citigroup, bought Primerica in 1988 and forced out Williams in
1990, when a U.S. attorney investigated whether Williams had
retaliated against a former agent, according to the
autobiography. Williams denied any wrongdoing, and the matter
was dropped.  The plan Williams developed still works well for some
Primerica salespeople, who told their rags-to-riches stories in
speeches and videos at the convention.  Mario Arrizon , 27, said
in an interview as he signed autographs for other agents that he
makes $50,000 a month.  “You can do this,” a voice said over the public-address
system after Addison’s speech. “People far less talented than
you actually have.”  ‘Team Unstoppable’  The Georgia Dome, where football’s Atlanta Falcons play,
was full of believers on June 15 -- old and young, black, white,
Hispanic and Asian. Many wore matching neon T-shirts and hats
with slogans such as “Empire Builders,” “Path to Glory,” and
“Team Unstoppable.”  “We want to go to the top,” said Davena Jones, a part-timer who took a 13-hour bus ride with her husband to Atlanta
from Gladstone,  Missouri . “I’ve seen other people do it.”  Top salespeople cried on stage as their portraits were
unveiled. Others held their babies aloft. One proposed to his
girlfriend after the announcer said she had been promoted to
regional vice president.  “I’m going to be a RVP by December,” said Dan King, 18,
as sweat dripped down his forehead from the exertion of running
back and forth waving a flag for a group of salespeople who call
themselves the “Maniacs.”  ‘Inborn Need’  Current and former salespeople said in interviews that they
generally set up meetings with potential clients and recruits by
telling them they have a lucrative opportunity, rather than
pitching insurance. Paul Thorpe, 49, said he asks people he
meets if they’re interested in owning their own business.  “It’s an inborn need of man,” Thorpe said as he took a
lunch break with two salesmen from what he called the “Team of
Eagles.” One had dropped out of a doctoral program, and the
other used to manage a McDonald’s Corp. restaurant.  Part of the pitch to potential salespeople is that they’re
helping others. The Primerica “movement” is shown alongside
the U.S. push to put a man on the moon, ending the  Cold War  and
the civil rights movement in a  video  on the company’s website.  Kelly, the head of investments, said Primerica doesn’t push
credit cards or sell structured products, real estate investment
trusts or individual stocks. Representatives, who also sell
annuities and mutual funds run by companies such as  Franklin
Resources Inc. (BEN)  and  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , said in interviews that they
give simple advice: Pay off your debts, buy life insurance and
start saving for retirement.  Insurance Cost  The company’s coverage generally isn’t the least expensive,
said Bob Barney, president of data provider  CompuLife Software
Inc. , which tracks life insurance costs. Primerica would charge
a 40-year-old woman $475 a year for a 20-year policy with a face
value of $500,000 that’s available for 30 percent less from
another insurer, Barney said.  Ron Rogers , a part-time salesman who left Primerica last
year to join CCF Investments Inc., said he canceled his own
policy three years after he was recruited at church when he
discovered other firms offered less expensive coverage.  “Primerica offers one life insurance company -- their
own,” Rogers said in a phone interview. He said he earned about
$25,000 over five years at Primerica and at one point had six
people under him.  Primerica’s policies are competitively priced, and agents
have to be compensated to educate the company’s middle-income
clientele, Addison said.  ‘They’re Hosed’  The company works with customers who have less money than
those targeted by other firms. Clients have household incomes of
between $30,000 and $100,000, according to the February filing.
 Bank of America Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch brokers are discouraged
from opening accounts smaller than $250,000.  “We sit down with families where if the primary
breadwinner died, buddy, they’re hosed,” Addison said.  During the convention, thousands of brokers toured the
company’s new headquarters in Duluth, about 22 miles (35
kilometers) northeast of Atlanta. After visitors watched a video
of salespeople talking about how they once couldn’t afford to
buy enough food, they walked through an exhibit of company
history decorated with larger-than-life photos of top brokers.  Mind Expansion  “It’s all about trying to expand your mind so you can
imagine yourself being the MVP of Primerica,” Kelly said as a
visitor posed for photos with a trophy on a replica of the
convention stage. One top representative earns about $5 million
a year, he said.  On their way out, visitors can stop at the gift shop and
buy a Primerica toddler T-shirt for $8.  At the Georgia Dome, salespeople expressed little doubt in
interviews that they would be among the successful, even as they
acknowledged that most people don’t make it. Trevor Williams,
20, and Errol Stephenson, 21, said they were trying to support
themselves after moving to Richmond,  Virginia , from the Bronx,
where they grew up poor.  “The most exciting part of it is that people are so
excited,” said Williams, who also performs spoken-word poetry
and hip-hop. “Everyone has hopes and aspirations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  