-- Rabobank Groep Chairman Piet Moerland Will Retire Next Year
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 2013-06-20T15:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/rabobank-groep-chairman-piet-moerland-will-retire-next-year.html
Rabobank Groep Chairman Piet Moerland will retire next year after more than 30 years at the
biggest Dutch mortgage bank.  Moerland announced his departure at an annual meeting with
cooperative members of Rabobank in the Dutch city of Utrecht
today. The supervisory board will choose his successor,
according to a written statement from the bank.  Moerland, 64, who has led the bank since 2009, resigns as
the bank grapples with regulatory scrutiny and the Dutch economy
continues to contract, paring demand for loans and making it
more difficult for borrowers to repay. Rabobank, formed in 1898
to serve Dutch farmers, has been embroiled in global probes into
rigging of benchmark  interest rates .  Rabobank is the only Dutch contributor to the London
interbank offered rate, or Libor, the benchmark for more than
$300 trillion of securities. It expects to “close the Libor
file with regulators” this year, Moerland said today.  Tom Hayes, the former  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Citigroup Inc. derivatives
trader, conspired with employees at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Rabobank
and other banks to manipulate Libor rates, prosecutors from the
U.K. Serious Fraud Office said today.  Downsizing Plan  Rabobank is also revising its cooperative banking model to
reduce costs and ensure better compliance with regulatory rules,
including documenting mortgage lending, Moerland said. The
number of independent local banks that form the cooperative will
be reduced to about 100 from 136 amid increased compliance and
regulation, Rabobank said.  While Rabobank is in transition “the new chairman would
need to have a sense of the bank’s history and its cooperative
nature,” supervisory board Chairman Wout Dekker said today.  The firm expects 8,000 jobs will disappear at its Dutch
consumer bank in the coming years as customers switch to mobile
and Internet banking, Moerland said. The number of bank branches
will drop to less than 500 from 826 in 2012, he said.  Net income at Rabobank fell in three out of the four years
Moerland has been in charge, as the financial crisis and a
recession in  Europe  ravaged banks’ profits. Assets grew to 752
billion euros ($991 billion) last year from 612 billion euros in
2008. The core Tier 1 capital ratio, a key measure of financial
strength, increased to 13.2 percent last year from 10.7 percent
four years previously.  Dutch gross domestic product will probably contract 1
percent this year, the central planning agency said last week.
 House prices , which have fallen about 20 percent from a 2008
peak, will continue to decline in the next two years, the
central bank said earlier this month.  The bank didn’t receive state aid during the financial
crisis or the  European debt crisis  that followed.  ING Groep NV (INGA) ,
the biggest Dutch financial-services company, got a taxpayer
bailout in 2008 while ABN Amro Group NV and SNS Reaal NV were
nationalized.  Rabobank Groep consists of local member banks, the Utrecht-based Rabobank Nederland, an international unit and
subsidiaries. Rabobank cooperatives have about 1.9 million
members. They can contribute to the capital of Rabobank
Nederland through member certificates. The outstanding amount of
member certificates is 6.6 billion euros, about 15 percent of
group equity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  