-- Rajoy Targets Utility Revenue to Curb Spanish Debt Loan
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2013-06-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/rajoy-targets-utility-revenue-to-curb-spanish-debt-loan.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government is preparing to cut the regulated revenue of
electric utilities and renewable-energy generators, threatening
their profits as it tries to curb the nation’s debt.  Power producers  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  and  Endesa SA (ELE)  along with wind-plant owners  Acciona SA (ANA) ,  Enel Green Power SpA (EGPW)  and EDP Renovaveis
SA face an earnings decline should their reimbursements be
reduced for selling power below market rates, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Macquarie Bank Ltd. The
analysts see solar operators being hit hardest.  Decreasing income for wind- and solar-power plants may
undermine some of the 55 billion euros ($73 billion) of loans
they’ve taken from banks such as  Spain ’s  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA) , according to Macquarie. Rajoy’s moves follow
concerns among governments from  Japan  to  Germany  that the prices
paid for clean energy subsidies are too high.  “We expect regulated revenues to come down for both
traditional and renewable operators, though the scale of each
reduction remains uncertain,” Morgan Stanley analysts Carolina Dores and Anna Maria Scaglia said in a research note. “We would
avoid stocks with large exposure to electricity” in Spain.
Dores declined to be interviewed, citing company policy.  Rajoy is working to rein in a 26 billion-euro ($33.7
billion) debt owed to utilities, a state-guaranteed payback to
them in return for selling electricity to consumers at too low a
price to cover all their costs. The debt has grown for a decade
because regulators cap rates, or tariffs, at levels not high
enough to reimburse services such as power transmission and
generating from more expensive renewable sources.  Decision Due  Decrees with measures to reshape the power system are
likely to be sent to the Cabinet for approval this month,
according to an Industry Ministry spokesman who asked not to be
named, in line with a government policy. Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria said at a hearing in congress on June 19 the
decision might slip until the middle of July.  “The increase of unforeseen costs seriously threatens the
stability of the power system,” Soria said at the hearing in
 Madrid . “It’s threatening the power system. It also threatens,
if it continues to grow, the stability of the financial
system.”  The cuts due in the next few weeks covering the tariff
deficit will be followed by a more comprehensive package of
changes to rein in costs in the wholesale power market after
Parliament’s summer recess, according to JP Morgan and the solar
lobby group UNEF.  Utility Impact  Spokesmen at each of the electric companies declined to
comment. The Association of Spanish Banks has met with ministers
to discuss energy reforms, said Encarna Perez, spokeswoman for
the group that represents BBVA and its competitors. UNESA, which
represents Endesa, Iberdrola,  Gas Natural SDG SA (GAS) , EDP and  EON
AG (EOAN) , said utilities are already suffering from recent measures
that reduced revenue by 3.2 billion euros over the past year.  Renewable energy operators that earn about 6 billion euros
a year in subsidies fear more cuts are on the way. Like
conventional generators, they were already hit by a 7 percent
tax on their revenue in December and a lower allowance for
inflation in February.  Spain’s biggest solar power operators are Fotowatio SL and
Grupo T-Solar Global SA. Jorge Barredo, president of the solar
lobby group UNEF, expects a cut of about 1.2 billion euros for
renewables including limits to earnings of photovoltaic plants.
PV plants have been losing 700 million euros a year in revenue
since 2011 because of limits on the hours they can earn
subsidies.  Returns Threatened  The nation’s six top electricity companies this year have
returned 4.1 percent through June 19, compared with a 6.1
percent return by the benchmark Ibex 35 index in the period.
Power demand has declined with the recession in Spain, adding to
a surplus of generation capacity that’s already as much as 60
percent higher than what’s needed.  Generators “can’t cope with more cuts” because they’re
already at the “threshold of profitability,” Eduardo Montes,
president of utilities trade group UNESA, said by phone.  The regulated system, which includes transport,
distribution and clean energy subsidies, created a 5.6 billion-euro shortfall last year, according to data from the power
regulator known by its initials CNE. The other half of consumer
bills comes mainly from prices set in the wholesale power
market, where companies trade electricity and traditionally have
made profits.  Analyst Forecasts  JP Morgan expects immediate measures to cut the regulated
power system’s revenue as much as 2.2 billion euros. Renewable
energy led by solar may take up to 1.4 billion euros of the cut,
lowering 15 percent to 16 percent of what generators earn, the
bank said in a June 18 note. It expects earnings to drop 5
percent to 7 percent at Iberdrola and  Enel SpA (ENEL)  and by as much as
10 percent at Endesa.  Morgan Stanley sees the government eliminating its forecast
of annual gaps of about 4 billion euros by splitting the cost
between itself and power generators. It said the distribution-grid operator,  Red Electrica (REE)  Corporacion SA, is the most
exposed, followed by Endesa SA. They could see 2014 earnings
reduced by 36 percent and 21 percent, respectively, in the
worst-case scenario.  Macquarie said Acciona’s earnings could fall 35 percent if
wind revenue per megawatt-hour is cut by 10 percent. With the
same assumption, earnings may drop 22 percent at EDP and 4
percent at both Iberdrola and Enel Green Power. If solar gets a
similar 10 percent reduction, Acciona’s profit may drop 50
percent, the bank estimated.  Bank Risk  Banks including BBVA have been warned to prepare for
refinancing loans to the industry, which top 25 billion euros
for both solar PV and wind projects and another 5 billion euros
for solar thermal projects, according to Macquarie. BBVA
declined to comment.  Shai Hill, head of European power research at Macquarie,
said he sees a risk of a “radical” restructuring to the power
system in a way that would hurt the lowest-cost generators the
most -- nuclear and hydropower plants.  “If you beat up wind and solar significantly more, we will
see multiple project-level bank debt defaults,” Hill said.  Soria, the industry minister, has said the measures seek to
reduce the cost of the regulated power system. The so-called
tariff deficit has surged since Spain boosted subsidies for
solar power in 2007 and adds to the government’s liabilities,
undermining efforts to trim the euro area’s third-biggest  budget
deficit .  Soria’s Hints  Neither Soria nor other ministers have given details about
what measures they plan, saying only that they will cut revenue
from all regulated activities and guarantee reasonable returns
for all technologies.  “We are not considering a revision of the feed-in tariffs
for renewables,” Soria said at a conference on June 11,
according to El Pais. “It’s about paying them according what
the law states, which is a reasonable remuneration, and that
there are no differences among regulated activities.”  The annual tariff deficit, which generates off-balance
sheet liabilities for the state, reached its highest level since
2008 last year.  Budget Deficit  Spain’s overall budget gap for 2013 is forecast to be 6.6
percent, according to the  International Monetary Fund , trailing
only Ireland and Slovenia among the nations sharing the euro.
Spain is seeking to reduce the call on taxpayer funds without
boosting the cost of power paid by consumers again.  Luis Crespo, president of the Protermosolar lobby group for
solar-thermal project developers, said banks have been warned
they “will have to do something to avoid getting many
installations in payment defaults.”  “It seems the government has told banks that they will cut
payments to renewables and that if they don’t improve financing
conditions, operators won’t be able to keep their commitments,”
Crespo said. He also said not all technologies should get the
same returns because some are more risky.  Spain has joined Germany,  Italy  and the U.K. in reducing
subsidies for clean energy amid concerns the cost of incentives
is driving up power bills for consumers. In Spain, subsidies
accounting for almost half of its 20 billion-euro regulated
power system, a level the government deems unsustainable.  A “new regulatory model” with measures that “won’t be
liked” is absolutely essential, Soria said May 20 in a meeting,
according to its minutes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  