-- Ray Lane’s $100 Million Tax Bill Inflated by Dot-Com Bomb
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a ,   A n d r e w   Z a j a c   a n d   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z
-- 2013-06-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/ray-lane-s-100-million-tax-bill-inflated-by-dot-com-bomb.html
For Ray Lane, the years after
leaving  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  with a $1 billion fortune were supposed to
cement his reputation as a shrewd Silicon Valley executive.  Instead, he’s dogged by a $100 million tax bill stemming
from a failed shelter built on startups, including one called
Kleptomaniac.com and another specializing in technology to
replace police radar guns. Fallout from the liability has
tarnished the reputation of the son of a steel-mill engineer
from Pennsylvania with a taste for expensive cars and
multimillion-dollar homes.  Lane’s settlement with the Internal Revenue Service after a
dozen years of tussling coincided with upheaval in his
professional life in recent months. Lane, 66, stepped down as
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s chairman, retired from active investing at
venture-capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and quit
the board of failing electric-carmaker Fisker Automotive Inc.
The events reflect changing fortunes for an ambitious executive
who demonstrated prowess at overseeing businesses early on, yet
proved less adept at managing money and judging corporate deals.  “We pay directors big bucks to understand complicated
financial transactions, so it’s a red flag when they get into
trouble” with their personal finances, said Nell Minow, co-owner of GMI Ratings Inc., which evaluates corporate boards.  Tax Shield  Lane’s decision in 2000 to invest $25 million in a package
of dot-com era startups were part of a strategy to shield some
of his then-surging wealth from taxes, creating a $251.7 million
shelter that the government later declared invalid, according to
papers filed in U.S. Tax Court.  Lane, who joined Hewlett-Packard’s board in 2010, remains a
director at the personal-computer maker.  At Oracle, Lane was known as a savvy operator who remade
the software company’s sales force to emphasize long-term
relationships instead of short-term deals, bolstering ties with
important customers. Yet his investment picks -- pouring
millions of Kleiner’s and his own money into struggling
electric-luxury carmaker Fisker, betting on unsuccessful green
technology companies for Kleiner Perkins and backing Hewlett-Packard’s value-destroying Autonomy Corp. acquisition -- have
been much less successful.  “HP’s board owes shareholders some kind of response about
why they want to continue with Lane as a director,” Minow said.  Company Turnaround  Lane’s “leadership is reflected in the early success we’ve
had turning the company around,” Hewlett-Packard Chief
Executive Officer Meg Whitman said in a statement the day Lane
stepped down as chairman. “I’m grateful that Ray will continue
to serve.”  The startups at the center of Lane’s earlier investments
reflected the go-go period of the late 1990s, when many new
companies commanded lofty valuations only to flame out when
their business models proved faulty.  Lane’s tax-shelter strategy involved companies called
Vanadium Partners Fund LLC and Velocity Partners Fund LLC. The
latter made payments to two other entities, Veritas Cambridge
Fund LLC and Vector Calculus Fund LLC. Those funds, in turn,
bought warrants, or rights to purchase equity in the startups at
a given price.  Vector, for example, reported paying $2.1 million for a
warrant in RocketGas Inc., described in court papers as a
business “that will revolutionize the stagnant petroleum
industry.” Its business model was “bringing services that have
only been available at gasoline stations directly to customers
at home or work.” The company projected revenue $509 million by
2005, according to the filings.  ‘E-Commerce Solutions’  Lane’s investments also found their way to a startup called
Kleptomaniac.com, an “e-commerce solutions provider” that
built websites for retailers. The company projected 2004 sales
of $151 million. It was sold in December 2000 to lifestyle and
dating website Gay.com. The founder of the website, Mark Elderkin, said it was acquired by new owners in the late 2000s.  Vector also reported spending $4.9 million for a warrant in
Spectrum Target Detection Inc., which developed a traffic-radar
gun using echo-cancellation technology that “was expected to
replace traditional speed measuring devices used by law
enforcement agencies,” according to court papers. No one
answered the phones at the Gatineau, Quebec-based company.  Another startup,  StorageQuest Inc. , developed data-storage
technology and projected sales of $47 million by 2004. Lane’s
fund said it paid $3 million for a warrant in the company. Its
CEO, Marwan Zayed, said Ottawa-based StorageQuest is now a $2
million company.  ‘Proved Worthless’  “Like most high-tech startups which seemed so attractive
in 2000, that high-risk, high-reward portfolio proved worthless
within three years,” one of Lane’s lawyers argued in a court
filing, seeking to show the companies were investments intended
to generate a profit, not losses.  Losses for those companies and one other totaled about $17
million, according to court papers. The warrants for all five
companies “became worthless,” Lane’s attorneys said.  “I’m embarrassed I didn’t tear it apart,” Lane said of
the investment strategy in a telephone interview this month. “I
know it sounds stupid but I can’t describe” how the
partnerships turned a $25 million investment into what was
supposed to be an income-shielding loss 10 times greater, he
said.  The IRS found in December that Lane’s shelter improperly
offset his income from stock options with losses.  ‘Looked Good’  “Taxpayers like me are typically put into these things by
advisers,” Lane said. “These products all looked good” until
the collapse of the Internet bubble, he said.  The plunge in the value of tech companies flush with
Internet-mania cash took the Nasdaq Composite Index from 5,049
in March 2000 to 1,840 a year later and suppressed demand and
funding for startups’ products for years afterward.  The IRS argued that Lane’s investments in the companies
really were “payments of fees to promoters of listed and/or
abusive tax avoidance transactions” to allow him to participate
in a tax shelter dubbed POPS.  That’s an acronym for Partnership Option Portfolio
Securities, part of a larger family of tax shelters popular with
investors in the late 1990s that sought to eliminate tax bills
on capital gains. The idea was that any gains would be
attributed to an entity that would be indifferent to the tax.
Tax-offsetting losses would be attributed to another entity.
POPS have since fallen out of use amid attacks by the IRS.  ‘Non-Economic Loss’  Lane used the POPS strategy to generate a $251.7 million
“non-economic loss” for 2000 in Vanadium, the IRS said.  Lane employed the shelters after walking away from Oracle
in mid-2000 with more than $1 billion in stock and stock
options.  The path toward the excesses of Silicon Valley’s technology
boom stretches from McKeesport,  Pennsylvania , a blue-collar town
near Pittsburgh, where Lane was born the son of an engineer who
designed rolling equipment for a steel mill.  Educated at West Virginia University, Lane began his career
at International Business Machines Corp. soon after his
graduation in 1968. He joined the Armonk, New York-based company
during its heyday after the invention of the mainframe and
worked in product management and marketing.  Later, he served as an executive at Ross Perot’s Electronic
Data Systems and then Booz Allen Hamilton, where he led a group
whose purpose was helping consulting clients use information
technology to improve businesses.  Great Wealth  He got the chance to amass great wealth in 1992, when he
was recruited as an Oracle executive by  Larry Ellison , rising to
president and chief operating officer of the world’s largest
database-software maker.  To lure Lane to  California  from  Texas , where he then worked
for Booz Allen, Ellison increased the number of options he
offered to 300,000 from 100,000, the San Francisco Chronicle
reported in 1997. He left Oracle mid-2000 amid strategy
differences with Ellison.  Lane joined Menlo Park, California-based Kleiner Perkins
that summer. During more than a dozen years there, he backed 13
companies, according to Kleiner’s  website . Only four went public
or were acquired, according to the site. These include Vertica,
a data-analysis provider acquired by Hewlett-Packard for an
undisclosed sum in 2011.  Green Technology  Besides information-technology deals, Lane invested in
green technology companies, including Luca Technologies Inc.,
GreatPoint Energy Inc., and Aquion Energy Inc. That field has
been less successful for Kleiner.  The mixed investing record hasn’t kept Lane from a lavish
lifestyle in keeping with Silicon Valley’s wealthy. A lover of
fine wine and fast cars, Lane bought Ellison’s Ferrari for
$57,500 early in his Oracle career. He later bought another
vehicle from the company for $100,000, according to Oracle’s
2000 proxy. He, like the Silicon Valley entrepreneurs and
investors he socialized with, competed over the size and number
of cars and homes they own, according to a person familiar with
Lane, who didn’t want to be named because the matter is private.  Even though Lane’s net worth has fallen since leaving
Oracle a billionaire on paper, he said he can satisfy the
obligation to the IRS.  “Not ever have I considered personal bankruptcy,” Lane
said. “I would not have settled if I couldn’t pay the bill.”  IRS Wrangle  For more than a dozen years, Lane and his lawyers wrangled
with the IRS over the amount he owed. In 2004, Lane was among
petitioners who sought to keep their names as tax-shelter
clients private in a Justice Department investigation of
accounting firm BDO Seidman LLP, according to court papers.  Lane filed a series of extensions with the agency -- about
one every 18 months -- that prolonged the case. The latest
extended it into 2014.  “They let this thing sit for 12 years,” he said. “I
never received a tax bill because I signed an extension. I don’t
think they ever did send a tax bill.”  The IRS ruled on Dec. 5 that Lane’s shelter was invalid,
disallowing all income and losses claimed by Vanadium. The
agency had planned to depose Lane on March 29 in  Newark , New
Jersey, though it was willing to conduct an interview instead,
court papers show. Lane’s attorney declined both offers. The
case was set for a Tax Court trial in October.  IRS Agreement  In May, Lane opted to settle instead, signing the $100
million agreement with the IRS. Lane and his lawyers’
discussions about resolving the dispute became more intense late
last year and came to a head just as he was facing unrest among
shareholders of Palo Alto, California-based Hewlett-Packard, the
world’s largest personal computer maker.  A March 20 vote of Hewlett-Packard investors at the
company’s annual meeting delivered a rebuke to Lane and some
other directors by re-electing them narrowly.  Investors were chagrined by the company’s acquisition of
Autonomy, a maker of data-analysis software, which led to an
$8.8 billion writedown and accusations by Hewlett-Packard of
accounting falsehoods at the firm before it was acquired.  After the meeting at Silicon Valley’s Computer History
Museum, Lane was dismayed that he wasn’t given what he thought
was enough credit for remaking the company’s board and ousting
CEO Leo Apotheker, who made the Autonomy purchase, a person
familiar with Lane’s thinking said. Lane stepped down from the
chairmanship in April.  Due Diligence  Apotheker said in November that due diligence on the deal
had been “meticulous and thorough” and he was “stunned” by
Hewlett-Packard’s allegations that Autonomy misrepresented
results. Autonomy managers led by former CEO Mike Lynch have
 denied  wrongdoing.  Meanwhile Fisker, which has raised an estimated $1.2
billion in venture capital, including millions of Lane’s own
money, was being plagued by quality issues, an Energy Department
loan it couldn’t repay, the bankruptcy of its battery supplier
and the destruction of hundreds of its low-slung luxury Karmas
in Superstorm Sandy. Lane became a partner emeritus at Kleiner
Perkins in April, and left Fisker’s board in May.  Lane’s change in status at Kleiner Perkins had been in the
works for a year and was unrelated to his personal financial
matters, a person close to the venture-capital firm said.  Fisker declined to comment, said Tony Knight, a spokesman
for the company at Sitrick & Co. in Los Angeles.  Michael Thacker, a Hewlett-Packard spokesman, said, “This
is a personal matter for Mr. Lane that does not involve HP. ”  Personal Pursuits  Lane, who turns 70 in December 2016, has said he wants to
spend half his time on personal pursuits by then, while
continuing to serve on the boards of startups. He is chairman of
Carnegie Mellon University’s board of trustees and vice chairman
of the Special Olympics.  Lane also plans to stay on Hewlett-Packard’s board into
next year, according to a person familiar with his thinking.  His financial difficulties could cast a pall over the
remainder of his tenure, said Rakesh Khurana, a Harvard Business
School professor who has written about corporate governance.  “Historically board members have been selected more for
the reputation they bring to companies than anything else,”
Khurana said. “They’re supposed to be signals of confidence in
a company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net ;
Carol Hymowitz in  New York  at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  