-- Threats to Financial Markets Lurk in Dark Pools
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-20T12:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/threats-to-financial-markets-lurk-in-dark-pools.html
Regulators on two continents have
noticed that too much trading in stocks takes place out of
sight.  Tomorrow, European finance ministers plan to endorse
legislation that would force transactions in privately owned
venues known as dark pools into an organized trading system.
Meanwhile in the U.S., the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, the brokerage industry’s self-regulator, sent  letters 
last month to 15 firms, seeking information on how they police
their dark pools and what they disclose to customers.  The proliferation and growth of dark pools should concern
anyone who buys or sells shares, not to mention workers whose
retirement accounts hold stocks in mutual funds. Evidence is
mounting that trading in dark pools increases the odds that
buyers and sellers won’t easily find each other, so investors
can lose out on the best possible prices.  The companies that own dark pools haven’t exactly made it
easy to figure out what happens on their private trading
systems: Credit Suisse Group AG, whose Crossfinder service is
the biggest U.S. dark pool, in April stopped reporting the
number of transactions it processes. About a dozen other dark
pools already keep mum about their trading, and there is nothing
to stop the rest from joining the silence. This would further
obscure the transparency that has helped make American capital
markets the most appealing in the world.  Dark pools  arose  in the 1980s when the Securities and
Exchange Commission said brokers could bring together buyers and
sellers to trade anonymously. Rather than routing customer
orders to the traditional exchanges, brokers could send them to
an outside trading service or execute orders on their own
internal systems, pocketing the spreads on prices and trading
fees. Today, as much as 40 percent of trading in U.S. equities
takes place away from the public stock exchanges.  Explosive Growth  Not surprisingly, trading on  dark pools  and brokers’
internal trading systems has exploded in recent years. Most of
the increase has come at the expense of U.S. stock exchanges,
where  volume  has fallen more than 30 percent in the past three
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. There even are
signs that dark pools are picking up the business of small
investors, based on research that shows the average dark-pool
transaction involves just 200 shares.  To their credit, dark pools have forced the  stock exchanges 
to be more competitive through technological innovation. But the
growth of dark pools also reflects the higher operating and
compliance costs of their heavily regulated exchange rivals, an
obvious benefit for firms such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc., UBS
AG and Barclays Plc, which own three of the five largest private
trading services.  All this fragmentation means that buyers and sellers aren’t
meeting in a central location where information is shared,
endangering the  price-discovery  function on which efficient
markets depend.  The SEC, however, doesn’t have the authority to oversee
dark pools the way it does exchanges, which have public-utility-like obligations. Exchanges match supply and demand, make buy
and sell quotes publicly available, post trading prices, and
police their markets for fraud and  insider trading .  Dark pools, by contrast, essentially piggyback, at minimal
cost, on quotes set by the  New York Stock Exchange (NYX) , the Nasdaq
Stock Market or the U.S.’s 11 other stock exchanges. The dark
pools are under no obligation to provide data that the broad
market uses for price discovery. What information they do make
available tends to fail the fairness test: Price quotes are
sometimes sent to select investors, giving them an unfair
advantage. Regulators are also concerned that high-frequency
traders are placing orders on the open exchanges in order to
influence prices in dark pools to their advantage.  Public Service  If this were only a dispute between commercial interests,
we could leave the exchanges to duke it out with the dark pools.
The reality is that exchanges provide a public service. In the
U.S., legislators recognized this in the 1930s, when the first
laws governing exchanges and protecting investors were adopted.
(Bloomberg LP, parent of  Bloomberg News , owns a stake in a
company, Bids Trading LP, which operates a dark pool.)  Although  Europe ’s regulators are  pursuing  one remedy,
 Canada  might serve as a better model for the U.S. Last year,
Canada required dark pools either to offer a superior price to
that of the exchanges or to limit trading to large blocks of
shares. Since then, buy-and-sell spreads have narrowed by 25
percent, and sharp price swings have declined.  Were the U.S. to adopt a price-improvement rule it might
limit the ability of dark pools to leech off the quotes the
exchanges generate at great expense.  Regulators should also consider restricting or banning the
practice of  sharing data  with select clients, or require broad
quote dissemination. Finra must also be more vigilant amid signs
that dark pools have shared clues about customer trading
intentions with proprietary traders working for the Wall Street
firms that own some of the dark pools.  Dark pools aren’t going away. Regulators need to ensure
that their further growth doesn’t cause unacceptable harm to
U.S. financial markets.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 