-- Regional Banks Gain as Rates Seen Boosting Interest Margins
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-06-20T21:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/regional-banks-gain-as-rates-seen-boosting-net-interest-margins.html
U.S. regional banks were among the
best performers today in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  as
margins stand to benefit from rising interest rates. The biggest
U.S. lender declined, led by  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Zions Bancorporation (ZION) , based in Salt Lake City, gained 2
percent to close at $27.46 in New York, the third-biggest
advance in the S&P. Buffalo, New York-based  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB) 
increased 0.8 percent, and  Huntington Bancshares Inc. (HBAN)  gained 0.5
percent. The benchmark index plunged 2.5 percent, the most since
November 2011, after the Federal Reserve said yesterday it may
start tapering bond purchases that have fueled market gains.  Regional lenders including  Comerica Inc. (CMA) , Zions and KeyCorp
have a large percentage of variable-rate loans, which could lead
to wider net interest margins as interest rates rise, said Mark Palmer, a New York-based analyst at BTIG LLC.  Yields (USGG10YR)  on 10-year
U.S. notes rose the most since 2011 yesterday after Fed Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke said that risks to the economy have decreased.  “We just haven’t seen an increase in rates such as this
for so long,” Palmer said in a phone interview. “It’s always
been more of an interesting theory rather than something in
practice. Now we’re seeing it in practice.”  Citigroup, JPMorgan  Comerica Chief Financial Officer Karen Parkhill said this
month that 85 percent of the Dallas-based company’s loan
portfolio comprises floating-rate products, which change along
with interest rates. That can help widen net interest margins,
the difference between what banks pay on deposits and receive
for loans.  The biggest U.S. lenders fell amid investor concern that
banking activity in emerging markets is slowing and as the third
quarter, a seasonally slower part of the year, approaches, said
Eric Wasserstrom, an analyst at SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Inc.  Citigroup, the third-largest U.S. bank by assets, tumbled
the most in the 24-company  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , declining 3.3
percent. Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
slid 2.3 percent,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest U.S. lender,
fell 2 percent, and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  retreated 1.4 percent.  “Every bank is going to benefit from a higher-rate
environment,” Wasserstrom said. “The guys who are considered
relatively more rate sensitive generally outperformed today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  