-- REIT Share Slump Deepens in U.S. on Interest-Rate Concern
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-06-20T20:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/reit-share-slump-deepens-in-u-s-on-interest-rate-concern.html
U.S. real estate investment  trusts 
plunged, capping the worst two-day decline since October 2011,
as investors sold shares of the companies vulnerable to rising
 interest rates .  The Bloomberg REIT Index fell 4.2 percent, extending a 3
percent slump yesterday, to close at the lowest level since
December. Single-tenant real estate landlords, which are viewed
as bond-like investments because of their long-term leases, led
today’s  decline  with a 5.5 percent slump.  “This sector is going to woefully underperform in a rising
rate environment,” Jonathan Pong, an analyst at Robert W. Baird
& Co. in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “History
proves that out.”  Single-tenant, or triple net-lease, properties typically
have long-term leases of 15 to 20 years. The companies are
viewed as comparable to bonds because of the duration of the
leases and the steady and reliable cash flow the rent payments
provide. Health-care REITs, which also typically have long-term
leases, fell the second-most among the industry, with the
Bloomberg Healthcare REIT Index dropping 5.3 percent.  REITs, which pay out most of their earnings as dividends,
have more than doubled since 2009 as low interest rates fueled
demand for higher-yielding investments. The 129-member Bloomberg
REIT Index has tumbled 16 percent since May 21 as the  yield  on
the 10-year Treasury  note  began to climb.  Little Room  REITs are dependent on the  capital markets  to finance
acquisitions and development since they they pay out most of
their taxable earnings to shareholders. The largest cash cost is
typically interest expense, said Craig Guttenplan, a REIT
analyst at CreditSights Inc., a New York-based fixed-income
research company. The firm downgraded REIT industry debt to
market perform from outperform, according to a report yesterday.  “Their relative value is gone,” Guttenplan said in a
telephone interview. “There’s really not much more room to run
for the REIT sector.”  Ventas Inc. (VTR) , the largest U.S. health-care REIT, sank 6.1
percent to $64.38.  Boston Properties Inc. (BXP) , the biggest office
REIT, slumped 6.5 percent to $100.58.  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) ,
the No. 1 U.S. mall owner and biggest REIT, decreased 4.9
percent to $154.58.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  