-- RHB Capital’s Biggest Investor Said to Mull Buying Rest
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-06-21T09:48:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/rhb-capital-s-biggest-investor-said-to-mull-buying-rest.html
RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC) ’s biggest
shareholder, the Employees Provident Fund, is considering buying
the rest of the $6.6 billion Malaysian lender, a person with
knowledge of the matter said.  Malaysia’s largest pension fund is working with Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. to study options for Kuala Lumpur-based RHB
Capital, said the person, who asked not to be named as the
deliberations are private. EPF Chief Executive Officer Shahril Ridza Ridzuan said the fund isn’t “currently” planning a
buyout of RHB Capital.  EPF held a 41 percent stake in the lender as of November,
 data  compiled by Bloomberg show. RHB Capital has  advanced 12
percent  in local trading this year, giving it a market
capitalization of 21.5 billion ringgit ($6.7 billion). The
lender, which last year agreed to pay $620 million for OSK
Investment Bank Bhd., trails its biggest Malaysian competitors
in  return on equity , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This is a tactical move on the part of the EPF following
the merger with OSK,” said James Lau, chief investment officer
at Pheim Asset Management Sdn. “It has become a different
animal and there are a lot of things that have to be reshuffled
within the whole group. A lot of these things are best done
outside the purview of shareholders.”  EPF may seek to restructure RHB Capital and take it public
again later, the person familiar with the matter said.  Aabar Holding  “We don’t currently plan to do a privatization of RHB
Capital,” Shahril said in a text message response to questions
today. “Anything is possible in the future. We get proposals
all the time, but very few of them end up being considered
seriously.”  RHB Capital Managing Director Kellee Kam said by phone he
wasn’t aware of a possible acquisition by EPF. Edward Naylor, a
spokesman for Goldman Sachs in  Hong Kong , declined to comment
yesterday.  The pension fund would need to pay about 8.8 billion
ringgit to take RHB private based on its closing price
yesterday, HwangDBS Vickers Research Sdn. said today.  Shares of RHB Capital fell 1.1 percent to 8.51 ringgit
today in Kuala Lumpur after earlier rising 0.7 percent. The
 benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index declined 0.4 percent.  Lower Return  Aabar Investments PJSC is RHB’s second-largest shareholder
with a 21.9 percent stake, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. OSK owns 9.8 percent, the data show. Aabar acquired
24.9 percent of RHB in June 2011 for 10.80 ringgit apiece from
 Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC. (ADCB)   RHB Capital’s return on equity of  12.4 percent  is below the
average 15.1 percent among nine publicly traded Malaysian
lenders, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  RHB bought OSK Investment Bank as bigger local rivals
 Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY)  and  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  benefited from
a surge in mergers and stock sales in Southeast  Asia , a region
spanning the  Philippines  to  Thailand . The two banks added
headcount and acquired competitors with the ambition of creating
regional investment-banking units able to compete in Asia with
global firms including Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley.  The value of mergers involving companies in  Southeast Asia 
swelled to about $128 billion last year, close to the record
$137.1 billion reached in 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Sales of domestic bonds jumped 33 percent to a record $80
billion from the previous high of about $60 billion set in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  