-- Roberts’s Liberal Ruling Will Protect Conservatives
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2013-06-20T17:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/roberts-s-liberal-ruling-will-protect-conservatives.html
If you pay the piper, you get to
call the tune. The U.S. Supreme Court undercut that traditional
conservative First Amendment principle today in Agency for
International Development v. Alliance for Open Society
International,  striking down  a law that required recipients of
federal funding for AIDS prevention abroad to have a policy
opposing prostitution. In a 6-2 decision, Chief Justice  John Roberts  wrote that though the government can decide what speech
it wants to fund, it can’t condition funding on making you say
something outside the scope of the program being funded.  Roberts’s vote -- and  Samuel Alito ’s alongside his -- show
how sharply the ideological lines on free speech have changed.
Stay up late at No. 1 First Street NE tonight: The ghost of
Roberts’s predecessor, Chief Justice William Rehnquist, will be
walking the ramparts, wondering how his former law clerk could
have poured the poison in his ear.  The 2003 law in question reflects the George W. Bush-era
version of international HIV/AIDS prevention. It restricted
funding to only organizations that have a policy explicitly
opposing prostitution -- a serious impediment for organizations
that want, for example, to prevent the spread of the disease by
working with prostitutes. The court said nothing about the
wisdom of the policy, however. Instead it approached the
questions from the standpoint of what the government can require
from its grant recipients.  Political Struggles  That is where history comes in -- specifically the history
of conservative versus liberal struggles on the Rehnquist court.
In 1991, in the landmark case of Rust v. Sullivan, Rehnquist
wrote an opinion for a 5-4 court upholding a law that banned
clinics receiving federal family-planning funds from counseling
or referring women for abortion. Rehnquist wrote that the
requirement wasn’t abridging the clinics’ or the doctors’ free
speech -- they could, he said, create other clinics, not
supported by federal money, and counsel for abortion there.
Free-speech advocates were outraged, but the logic reflected
Rehnquist’s view -- going back to the 1970s -- that recipients
of disability or welfare payments must “take the bitter with the
sweet,” not claiming constitutional protection when the
government took away funding it had provided out of its
“largesse.”  An application of this view, adopted by Justice  Antonin Scalia  in dissent in the new AIDS prevention case, says that
when the government sets conditions on receipt of funding that
are relevant to the program, it isn’t coercion. No one is forced
to take the money, and so no one is coerced either to speak or
to remain silent. The organizations that don’t want to have
policies formally opposing prostitution, Scalia said, can do
whatever they like -- they just can’t use this federal money to
do it.  A few years ago, you would have expected conservatives such
as Roberts and Alito to have adopted this view. But the politics
of federal funding are changing, and conservative doctrine is
changing with it. Once, the government was imposing morally
conservative conditions, like the anti-abortion counseling rule
in Rust or the anti-legalized-prostitution condition in the 2003
law. Now, in the wake of the Affordable Care Act, the conditions
imposed by government can be liberal -- like Obamacare’s so-called contraceptive mandate that requires big organizations to
provide contraceptives as part of their health-insurance plans.
Conservatives are growing concerned that government conditions
might impinge on individual liberty. Roberts and Alito, younger
than Scalia and Thomas (and less constrained by long voting
records), are more affected by this shift.  Fine Line  Instead of the old conservative position, Roberts asserted
that there is a fine, if fuzzy, line between the government
limiting or requiring speech that defines the limits of a
program, and setting “conditions that seek to leverage funding
to regulate speech outside the contours of the program itself.”
In Rust, he claimed, the condition of not mentioning abortion
was on the project itself, not on the grantee. In contrast,
Roberts maintained, the anti-HIV/AIDS law requires that the
applying organization explicitly adopt a certain policy
extending beyond the narrow goal of fighting HIV/AIDS.  Thus, although Roberts claimed to be relying on Rust, he
was in fact limiting its scope. After all, the requirement that
grantees set up separate facilities should they want to offer
abortion-related counseling was in effect a requirement to
create organizational separateness -- just what the anti-HIV/AIDS organizations would have had to do under the law that
the Roberts court has now struck down.  This result is a good one if you like free speech, and fear
that government funding can be used as a powerful tool to shape
private speech (potentially thought, too). But make no mistake
about the context: Roberts and Alito are gearing up for a world
where exemptions and protections from generally applicable laws
will be sought primarily by conservative groups. The main
framework will probably be religious liberty, which opponents of
same-sex marriage have increasingly identified as the value
under attack when government recognizes same-sex marriage and
requires various organizations to do the same. But free exercise
of religion is in the First Amendment, too. If he could be made
to understand the new emerging politics of the First Amendment,
Rehnquist’s anguished ghost might be appeased.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Cool War: The Future of Global Competition,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. Follow him on Twitter at
 @NoahRFeldman .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 