-- Rockwell Collins Vies for 777X Work to Trump Honeywell
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-06-20T17:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/rockwell-collins-vies-for-777x-work-to-trump-honeywell.html
Rockwell Collins  Inc., successful in
wresting work from  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  on one Boeing
Co. jet, seeks to repeat that victory as the planemaker upgrades
its biggest twin-engine model.  The new contest is shaping up over cockpit avionics as
Boeing starts developing the 777X, the next variant of its
popular 777, said Rockwell Collins President Kelly Ortberg, 53,
who will become chief executive officer at the end of next
month. Honeywell is the incumbent on the existing jet.  “On the current 777, we don’t have a lot of standard
equipment,” Ortberg said yesterday in an interview at the  Paris
Air Show . “It’s surely a market-share-gain opportunity.”  Winning contracts for cockpit avionics would be a prize
because the 777 is Boeing’s best-selling twin-engine wide-body
model. Boeing chose  Cedar Rapids , Iowa-based Rockwell Collins in
November to provide cockpit displays for the 737 Max, an update
of the world’s best-selling airliner, displacing Honeywell.  “We have a long-standing and successful partnership with
Boeing, delivering a portfolio of technologies to its aircraft
that extends well beyond avionics,” Bill Kircos, a Honeywell
spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We will aggressively compete in
any future opportunities.”  He declined to comment specifically on the 777X work.  Marc Birtel , a Boeing spokesman, said it’s too early in the
777X’s development to comment on the avionics contract.  Last Chance  The 777 program may be the last chance for years for either
Rockwell Collins or Honeywell to win such a contract. After
adding wide-body planes and refreshing their single-aisle
models, neither Boeing nor Airbus SAS is likely to start work
soon on another commercial plane, Ortberg said.  He didn’t give a value on the work for the new 777. Cockpit
avionics, which include display screens and flight management
systems, are part of Rockwell Collins’s commercial business,
which accounted for 45 percent of the company’s $4.73 billion in
fiscal 2012 sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rockwell Collins has the avionics on Airbus’s A350, which
had its first flight last week, and on Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner.
The cockpit displays offered by Rockwell Collins on the 737 Max
were similar to those it provides for the 787.  Rockwell Collins may have a leg up on competitors for the
777X work if Boeing wants displays similar to those on the
Dreamliners and the 737 Max, said Ortberg, whose company only
has the autopilot system on the current 777.  Business Jets  Even as contract opportunities for new commercial planes
slow, work is under way on new  business jets , especially the
largest models, said Ortberg, who will succeed retiring CEO Clay
Jones, 64.  “There’s still quite a few biz jets that are unannounced
that are in the development phase, and we’re working on several
development programs now,” Ortberg said. “Across the
marketplace, everybody continued to invest through the cycle
with new products.”  Ortberg said he will focus on increasing international
military sales when he takes over, with a goal of boosting those
to 35 percent of the defense unit’s revenue in five years from
28 percent now.  Brazil ,  India  and Middle East nations provide
the most opportunity, he said.  The defense business, which makes up about half Rockwell
Collins’s sales, produces surveillance systems, precision-guided
munitions and other military equipment.  International sales will help offset weakness in the U.S.
defense business, which will decline in 2014 and be unchanged in
2015. By 2017, that business will track the inflation rate with
growth of 1 percent to 2 percent a year, Ortberg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Paris at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  