-- Rolls-Royce Sued by Qantas Worker Over Engine Explosion
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-06-20T04:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/rolls-royce-sued-by-qantas-worker-over-engine-explosion.html
A  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  attendant sued
Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc, claiming it was responsible for
psychological damage suffered by passengers when an engine
exploded on a flight in 2010.  The suit was filed for Sandy Lam by  LHD Lawyers  in New
South  Wales  Supreme Court in Sydney on Feb. 6. It seeks
unspecified damages for non-economic and economic losses on
behalf of all people on board the aircraft who suffered
psychological injury because of the engine failure, according to
the statement of claim.  Part of the Rolls-Royce Trent 900 engine casing blew off
shortly after the A380 plane left  Singapore  on Nov. 4, 2010,
sending shrapnel through a wing and fuselage, based on a
 preliminary report  by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau.
None of the 469 people on board was physically injured in the
incident, which led Qantas to ground its entire fleet of the
Airbus SAS superjumbo for more than three weeks.  Qantas won A$95 million ($88 million) in compensation from
London-based  Rolls-Royce (RR/)  for disruptions caused by the incident.
The associated costs were equivalent to at least $242 million.  Rolls-Royce hasn’t filed a statement of defense, the New
South Wales Supreme Court office said in an e-mail today.  David Mair, a managing director at Republic Consulting Pty.
in Sydney, which represented the engine-maker, declined to
comment today. Rolls-Royce has taken “appropriate remedial
action to make sure that such events cannot happen again,” Mair
previously said after the regulator’s report.  The engine explosion was caused by an oil leak and
subsequent fire, according to the safety regulator’s report.
Rolls-Royce has revised procedures including ones for assessing
new parts, it said.  Lam, 31, worked in the premium economy class cabin of the
aircraft when the blast occurred, according to the statement of
claim. The plaintiff and other group members suffered
psychological injury as a result of the defendant’s negligence,
according to the filing, which doesn’t specify the injuries.  The case is Sandy Lam v. Rolls Royce Plc. 2013/37342.
 Supreme Court  of New South Wales (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  