-- Rolls-Royce Targets Manila Rich as Hanoi Beckons: Southeast Asia
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2013-06-20T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/rolls-royce-targets-manila-rich-as-hanoi-beckons-southeast-asia.html
Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Ltd. targets
to sell as many as 20 sedans in a year in the Philippines to tap
the growing number of wealthy people in  Asia ’s fastest-growing
economy.  The  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  ultra-luxury unit will open
a showroom in the nation’s capital in the fourth quarter,  Paul
Harris , regional director Asia-Pacific at Rolls-Royce Motor
Cars, said in an interview in Manila. Rolls-Royce, which opened
second showrooms in Bangkok and Taiwan this year, plans to be in
Hanoi in the next six months, he said.  “We’ve come in right at the beginning of a growth we see
continuing,” Harris said on June 19 after the company signed a
dealership agreement this week in Manila. “Given the
combination of stability, the growth rate and the overall
business atmosphere, it would be wrong for us to come to the
Philippines at any other time.”  The British carmaker seeks to tap into Asia’s growing
affluence to help drive demand as the debt crisis damps
sentiment among  Europe ’s rich. The number of individuals in Asia
Pacific with at least $1 million in investible assets jumped 9.4
percent to 3.68 million last year, with their wealth rising to
$12 trillion, according to a report by RBC Wealth Management and
Capgemini SA.  The Philippine economy expanded 7.8 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, the fastest in almost three years
and the best performance in the region as the nation boosted
investment and state spending. It won its first investment-grade
rankings from  Fitch Ratings  and Standard & Poor’s this year.  ‘Enough Room’  “There’s enough room for the luxury market in the
 Philippines (PHGDPYOY) ,” Rommel Gutierrez, president of the Chamber of
Automotive Manufacturers of the Philippines Inc. or Campi, said
in a mobile-phone message. “We project vehicle sales to
increase 10 percent to 15 percent this year and we expect the
luxury segment, which accounts for less than 5 percent of total
industry sales now, to grow as well.”  Rolls-Royce appointed British Bespoke Automobiles, a unit
of Autohub Group, as its official importer-dealer for Manila. An
interim facility will be in place by the last quarter and a new
showroom will open in early 2014, British Bespoke President
Willy Tee Ten said in a June 19 interview.  Vietnam Growth  Sales in Asia, accounting for a third of the global volume,
are tracking a very similar pattern to last year with “some
possible minor upside,” Rolls-Royce’s Harris said. He expects a
significant lift in sales from the Wraith model that will come
into full production next year. Global sales at the ultra-luxury
carmaker rose to a record 3,575 cars in 2012.  Vietnam ’s gross domestic product expanded 4.89 percent in
the first quarter from a year earlier, slowing from the previous
three months. Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung in February
approved a master plan to revamp the economy after a credit
slump damped corporate expansion and  consumer spending , while a
weak  property market  hurt construction.  Rolls-Royce opened a showroom in  Osaka  to add to its Tokyo 
and Yokohama bases in  Japan , it said in a statement released 
after the Manila signing ceremony. It’s set to open showrooms 
in Perth,  Australia , and is planning to open two more shops in 
 India , it said in the statement, without specifying time frames.  Household Spending  Of the top 100 billionaires in the world, 17 are from Asia,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  ranking. One of
them is  Henry Sy , the Philippines’ richest man.  “High net-worth individuals have been growing in Asia
irrespective of economic circumstance,” Harris said. “If that
continues to grow, it’s always a good market opportunity for
Rolls-Royce.”  Motor-vehicle sales in the Philippines rose 29 percent from
a year earlier to a record 41,702 units in the first quarter,
according to data from Campi and the Truck Manufacturers
Association. Household spending increased 5.1 percent in the
three months ended March to 1.09 trillion pesos ($25 billion)
from a year earlier, according to the National Statistical
Coordination Board.  Bentley Motors Ltd., BMW, Ferrari SpA, Jaguar Land Rover
Ltd., Lamborghini, Lexus Motors Ltd., Maserati SpA, Mercedes-Benz Automobil AG and Porsche Automobil Holding SE have also
established dealerships in the  Philippines .  Rolls-Royce’s Philippine dealer aims to sell between 10 and
20 Phantom, Ghost and Wraith sedans a year, targeting the
“captains of the industry” as its likely clients, Ten said. An
entry-level Ghost sedan costs 25.9 million pesos, he said.  “People are more open to spend now, unlike 20 years ago
when a lot of the rich were stingy,” Ten said in Manila. “They
don’t want to wait until they can no longer enjoy the fruits of
their labor.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  