-- Rosneft Plans $60 Billion Oil Supply Deal With China, Putin Says
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a ,   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-06-20T17:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/rosneft-plans-60-billion-oil-supply-deal-with-china-putin-says.html
OAO Rosneft, the world’s biggest oil
producer by output, plans to sign an “unprecedented” $60
billion contract to supply crude to  China , according to Russian
President  Vladimir Putin .  China may become Russia’s biggest oil customer after
signing the contract, following a government accord in April.
Rosneft may sign that deal as well as a crude supply agreement
with  PKN Orlen  SA’s Czech refining unit and liquefied natural
gas accords with  Japan ’s  Marubeni Corp. (8002)  and Sakhalin Oil & Gas
Development Co. at the St. Petersburg International Economic
Forum this week, two people with knowledge of the plans said.  BP Plc,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and Eni SpA executives are in St.
Petersburg during the annual forum, where Putin has courted
foreign investors needed to develop resources in the world’s
biggest oil and gas producing nation. Last year, Rosneft signed
follow-up accords with Eni and Statoil ASA on planned Arctic
projects, while OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s natural gas export
monopoly, failed the previous year to clinch a much-touted deal
with China to build a pipeline and agree on supplies.  “You didn’t just come here to stroll through Petersburg,”
Putin told a Chinese delegation including Deputy Prime Minister
Zhang Gaoli. “An unprecedented contract with Rosneft has been
prepared. Deliveries of hundreds of millions of tons of crude
are expected.”  Not Unattainable  The agreement signed in April calls for Rosneft to deliver
at least 37 million metric tons of oil a year, or 743,000
barrels a day, to China National Petroleum Corp. starting in
2018. Rosneft agreed to increase oil flows to China through a
spur from the East Siberia-Pacific Ocean pipeline by as much as
800,000 tons this year from an earlier planned 15 million tons.  Raising exports to China to 50 million tons of oil a year
“isn’t unattainable” for Rosneft, Chief Executive Officer  Igor
Sechin  said earlier this year.  “The hike in crude exports signals an important, strategic
shift east for Russia,” Eurasia Group analyst Emily Stromquist
said today in a e-mailed note. “While an adequate supply chain
exists for delivering higher volumes to China over the next
year, Rosneft’s ability to meet longer-term export targets is
questionable and faces significant obstacles.”  Under the agreement with PKN Orlen, Rosneft may supply as
much as 8.28 million tons of crude to Unipetrol RPA under a
three-year contract through June 2016, with an estimated value
of about $6.1 billion, the people said, asking not to be
identified because the information is confidential.  Czech Oil  Crude flows to the  Czech Republic  declined following a
trade dispute with Russian suppliers in 2011, forcing Unipetrol
to halt its Kralupy refinery last year for 10 days because of a
shortage of crude.  An agreement with Exxon, which has a partnership with
Rosneft to explore areas in Russia’s Arctic offshore and the
 Gulf of Mexico  and develop reserves in Siberia, Texas and
Canada, may also be signed, the people said.  Rosneft’s press service declined to comment, as did
spokesmen from PKN Orlen, Marubeni and Sodeco.  “Rosneft, with its actions on the international arena, is
underpinning its status as the world’s biggest oil company,”
Lev Snykov, a partner at Greenwich Capital in Moscow, said by
phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in  St. Petersburg  at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  