-- Trump to Bring His Hotel-Condominium Brand to Vancouver
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-06-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/trump-to-bring-his-hotel-condominium-brand-to-vancouver.html
Donald Trump , the billionaire  New
York  real estate investor, said he formed a partnership with
Canadian and Malaysian developers to bring his brand of luxury
lodging and residences to Vancouver.  The C$360 million ($350 million) Trump International Hotel
& Tower Vancouver will be the second Canadian hotel-and-condominium development to carry the name, joining a 65-story
Trump tower in Toronto that opened last year. Planned for
Georgia Street in downtown Vancouver and scheduled for
completion in mid-2016, the 63-story structure will have 147
hotel rooms and 218 condominiums, Trump said in a statement.  “We had another opportunity in Vancouver and this was the
one we chose,” Trump, chief executive officer of closely held
 Trump Organization , said yesterday at a press conference
announcing his involvement in the project. “And believe me, I
have no second thoughts even about it. This is going to be
special.”  Holborn Group , based in Vancouver, and  TA Global Group  of
 Kuala Lumpur  are building the Trump tower on a site originally
slated for development under the Ritz-Carlton brand, Joo Kim
Tiah, Holborn’s chief executive officer, said at the press
conference. That project, also involving Holborn, was canceled
in 2009 amid the global financial crisis.  Trump Organization will manage the hotel and assist in the
marketing of the condominium units.  It’s unclear how the Vancouver tower and Trump brand will
be received by potential condominium buyers,  Michael Ferreira , a
Vancouver-based real estate market analyst at Urban Analytics
Inc., said in a telephone interview.  “Vancouver doesn’t strike you as a Trump kind of city --
it’s not a New York, it’s not a Toronto -- it’s Lotus Land, the
relaxed West Coast,” he said on June 14. “We haven’t
historically liked to show off our wealth.”  The tower will be the largest luxury residential
development in  Vancouver  since before the financial crisis,
Ferreira said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  