-- Rupee Drop Imperils $670 Million Solar Projects: Corporate India
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-06-21T04:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/rupee-drop-imperils-670-million-solar-projects-corporate-india.html
The rupee’s 9 percent slide this
quarter to a record may reduce returns for $670 million of solar
power projects in  India  as higher import costs hurt developers
grappling with a rise in panel prices.  Purchases could be postponed as equipment such as panels
and inverters comprising 60 percent of the expenditure to build
a plant is either imported or based on U.S. dollar prices, said
Gaurav Sood, managing director of Solairedirect SA’s local unit.
Ajay Goel, chief executive officer at Tata Power Solar Systems
Ltd., said as much as 80 percent of module components such as
anti-reflective glass have few or no local substitutes, raising
costs.  “This is a challenge we face today,” Sood said in an
interview. “We are hoping the rupee appreciates soon, or else
with fixed tariffs, project returns would suffer.”  A weaker rupee is adding to the risks faced by renewable
energy companies to paint makers in an economy expanding at the
slowest pace in a decade. The currency, the worst performer in
Asia since end-March because of the nation’s unprecedented
current-account deficit, also increases financing costs on
foreign currency debt, said Bharat Bhushan, a New Delhi-based
analyst with Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  License Winners  Welspun Energy Ltd., India’s biggest solar developer,  Moser
Baer India Ltd. (MBI) ,  Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI)  and Azure Power India Pvt.
are among winners of licenses this month to build a total of 250
megawatts of plants that generate electricity from the sun’s
rays. They have 13 months to complete the projects, failing
which they face penalties.  Apart from these contracts, at least an additional 250
megawatts of capacity due mid-2014 is coming up in other states,
taking their combined worth to about 40 billion rupees ($667
million), according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The rupee touched an all-time low of 59.98 a dollar
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Moser Baer
shares have slumped 40 percent this year, compared with a 3.8
percent decline in the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex index, while
Lanco has dropped 46 percent.  Project developers who raised overseas debt will face an
increase in hedging costs and also have to repay more in rupee
terms, said Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s Bhushan.  “If the rupee is expected to appreciate, then delaying
imports and loans is better,” he said. “If it is expected to
depreciate further, buy as soon as possible or wait until it
appreciates.”  ‘Prominent Risk’  Projects that have already been completed face a
“prominent risk” as loan repayments come up if they haven’t
hedged their borrowings, Vineet Mittal, managing director at
Welspun Energy, said in an e-mailed response to questions. India
has completed almost 1,700 megawatts of solar capacity,
according to the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy.  The rupee has plunged at a time when solar panel prices
have reversed an almost two-year decline to rise  12 percent 
since January, dealing a double blow to the companies, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Moser Baer, India’s biggest maker of solar panels, said net
loss widened 44 percent in the year ended March 31 to 4.59
billion rupees as an oversupply from Chinese manufacturers
pushed prices down. Lanco, which also has thermal and wind power
units, reported a 10-fold surge in loss in the same period as
India’s $1.8 trillion economy grew 5 percent, the smallest gain
since 2003.  Tactical Move  “Imports delay would be a very tactical move, but there’s
no guarantee the rupee is going to appreciate any time soon,”
said Inderpreet Wadhwa, chief executive officer of the World
Bank-backed Azure Power. “If there’s no risk management in
place, returns are certainly going to be impacted.”  The median forecast of 41 estimates of analysts and
strategists shows the rupee will strengthen 8.5 percent to 55 a
dollar by the end of this year.  The drop in the rupee will have a “big impact” on the
country’s paint makers as imports account for about 40 percent
of expenses, said Ramakanth Akula, president of the Indian
Paints Association. The industry relies on ingredients such as
titanium dioxide from suppliers including Dow Chemical Co. as
domestic companies meet only 10 percent of the demand, he said.  Best Relief  “The situation is very precarious,” Akula said. “This
will be a big hit on the bottomline of most paint companies,”
and may force them to raise prices if the exchange rate exceeds
60 rupees a dollar, he said.  The  Reserve Bank of India  should intervene by selling
dollars to stem the decline, said Azure Power’s Wadhwa. The
rupee temporarily pared losses yesterday amid speculation the
Reserve Bank of India intervened in the currency market to curb
exchange-rate losses.  The central bank will intervene in the currency market if
necessary to curb speculative activity, India’s Planning
Commission Deputy Chairman Montek Singh Ahluwalia said in New
Delhi. Alpana Killawala, a Mumbai-based spokeswoman for the RBI,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the
rupee’s decline.  “The best relief is for the RBI to intervene and stabilize
the rupee,” Wadhwa said. “That is what will impact not only
solar but a broader economic agenda.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  