-- Russia’s Consumer Demand Eases as Incomes Unexpectedly Drop
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-06-20T14:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/russia-s-may-consumer-demand-eases-as-incomes-unexpectedly-drop.html
Russian  consumer spending 
decelerated in May, with disposable  incomes  unexpectedly
shrinking for the first time since October 2011, adding to
evidence the $2 trillion economy is stalling.  Real disposable incomes declined 1.3 percent from a year
earlier after a revised 7.5 percent gain in April, the Federal
Statistics Service in Moscow said today by e-mail. The median
estimate of nine economists in a Bloomberg  survey  was for a 6.5
percent increase.  Retail sales  rose 2.9 percent from a year
earlier, missing the median estimate of 3.6 percent and compared
with a 4.1 percent increase in April.  The deteriorating outlook underscores the risk that the
world’s biggest energy exporter will struggle to overcome its
steepest slowdown since a contraction ended in 2009.
 Unemployment (RUUER)  near a record low has bolstered household finances
and confidence, making  Russia  more dependent on domestic demand
as a European recession sapped demand for its exports.  “The moving force behind growth, slow but growth
nonetheless, is consumption,” Economy Minister Andrei Belousov
told reporters in  St. Petersburg  today, adding that gross
domestic product expanded an average of about 2 percent from a
year earlier in April-May, from 1.6 percent in the first
quarter. “We can say with certainty that we are seeing some
acceleration in GDP growth in the second quarter.”  Micex, Ruble  The  Micex Index (MOSBIRZ)  sank for a second day, losing 1.5 percent
to 1,302.61 by 6:11 p.m. in Moscow. Russia’s stocks have the
cheapest valuations among 21  emerging markets  tracked by
Bloomberg. The ruble weakened for a fourth month against the
dollar in May, the longest stretch of monthly declines in three
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Russian
currency tumbled to its weakest level in 20 months today.  The government has remained split over policies to right
the course of the economy, with the  International Monetary Fund 
warning June 18 against the danger of stoking inflation with
fiscal stimulus. Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said last week
that a weaker ruble may be used to revive growth.  Gross domestic product expanded 1.8 percent in the first
five months from a year earlier, Belousov said in St. Petersburg
today. That’s below the 5 percent medium-target growth set by
Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev . The IMF cut its economic growth
forecast for Russia, predicting GDP will expand 2.5 percent this
year and 3.25 percent in 2014. The Economy Ministry projects 2.4
percent growth this year and 3.7 percent in 2014.  Rates Held  Policy makers kept their main rates unchanged June 10 for a
ninth month as consumer-price growth accelerated to 7.4 percent
in May, more than a percentage point above the central bank’s
target range of 5 percent to 6 percent for this year.  May numbers were also affected by the month having fewer
working days in May compared with a year ago, said Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist for Russia at  Bank of America  Corp.
in Moscow and the most accurate forecaster of Russian retail
sales and investment.  Fixed-capital investment  unexpectedly grew 0.4 percent in
May, surprising analysts who expected a 1.2 percent decrease.
Unemployment fell to 5.2 percent in May from 5.6 percent in
April. Economists polled by Bloomberg projected the jobless rate
at 5.4 percent.  “Investment demand is weak, pulling down economic
growth,”  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of research for BNP Paribas SA
in Moscow, said by e-mail. “A negative base effect is likely to
strengthen in the coming months and rebound of investment growth
is likely not earlier than the fourth quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  