-- Sales of Existing U.S. Homes Rise More Than Forecast
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-06-20T20:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/sales-of-previously-owned-u-s-homes-rise-more-than-forecast.html
Sales of previously owned homes in
the U.S. climbed in May to the highest level in more than three
years and manufacturing improved in June, bearing out the
 Federal Reserve ’s view that risks to the expansion are abating.  Purchases of existing houses rose 4.2 percent to a 5.18
million annualized rate, the most since November 2009, the
National Association of Realtors reported today in  Washington .
The  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia  also said its factory
 index  climbed this month to the highest since April 2011,
exceeding all  forecasts  in a Bloomberg survey.  Growing demand and a lack of supply propelled the median
home price up last month by the most in more than seven years,
which will probably lead to further gains in household spending
and confidence. Stocks tumbled as an improving economy makes it
more likely Fed policy makers will start to reduce the amount of
money pumped into financial markets later this year.  “Residential construction and home sales will be growing
over the next couple of years and that ought to be broadly
supportive of the economy,” said Tim Quinlan, an economist at
 Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , a unit
of the largest U.S. mortgage lender. The Philadelphia report is
a “sign of life in the factory sector.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index sank 2.5 percent to
1,588.19 at the close in  New York , its biggest one-day loss
since November 2011. Each of the 10 groups in the  S&P 500 
declined at least 2 percent, led by consumer and utility shares.  Global Slowdown  Slowing global growth also contributed to the drop in
equities. Manufacturing in  China  shrank at a faster pace this
month, threatening to stem an economic recovery in the euro area
from the currency bloc’s longest-ever recession, according to
other reports today.  Factories in the U.S. are showing some resilience in the
face of cooling markets overseas. The Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia’s general economic index climbed to 12.5 from minus
5.2 in May. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in the
area, which covers eastern Pennsylvania, southern  New Jersey  and
Delaware.  The index readings were stronger than a similar report this
week from the  New York Fed (EMPRGBCI)  that also showed an improvement. All
of the Philadelphia gauge’s sub measures, including orders and
sales, jumped this month. The New York Fed’s headline reading
climbed, signaling growing confidence, even as orders and sales
deteriorated.  Consumer Confidence  Consumers are also gaining confidence, which rose last week
from a two-month low as Americans’ views on the economy were the
least pessimistic in five years, another report showed. The
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index increased to minus 29.4 in the
period ended June 16 from minus 31.3 a week earlier. The measure
of how households view the current  state of the economy  climbed
to minus 51.2, the highest since January 2008, from minus 52.5.  Stronger job gains may be needed to prevent sentiment from
backsliding. More Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week, showing progress on reducing
joblessness remains uneven.  Jobless claims  climbed by 18,000 to 354,000 in the week
ended June 15 from a revised 336,000 the prior period, the Labor
Department reported. The median forecast of 46 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for 340,000.  The index of leading indicators rose less than projected in
May, a sign the world’s largest economy may take time to
accelerate. The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the
next three to six months increased 0.1 percent after a revised
0.8 percent gain in April that was higher than initially
reported, the New York-based group said. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a rise of 0.2
percent.  Fed’s Plan  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke yesterday put investors on
notice that the central bank is prepared to begin phasing out
one of the most aggressive easing programs in its century-long
history. Policy makers will probably taper its $85 billion in
monthly bond buying later in 2013 and halt  purchases (ETSLTOTL)  around mid-2014 as long as the world’s largest economy performs in line
with Fed projections, Bernanke told reporters yesterday.  Members of the policy making  Federal Open Market Committee 
issued a statement yesterday saying the group “sees the
downside risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor
market as having diminished since the fall,” when they began the
additional bond-buying program.  Gains in housing are part of the improving outlook. The
median  forecast  of 74 economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected
sales of existing homes in the U.S. would climb to a 5 million
rate. Estimates ranged from 4.9 million to 5.18 million.  Broad Gains  Purchases rose in all four regions, led by an 8 percent
gain in the Midwest and a 4 percent advance in the South.  The  median price  of an existing home jumped 15.4 percent in
May from a year earlier to $208,000 last month, the highest
since July 2008. The monthly gain was the biggest since October
2005, when the median surged a record 16.6 percent.  “The residential real estate market in the U.S. is on
fire,” said  Brian Jones , senior U.S. economist in New York at
 Societe Generale , who projected a 5.17 million annual rate for
home sales. “Ultimately, I think it’s a sign of confidence in
the  U.S. economy .”  Part of the reason for the surge in property values is a
lack of supply. There were 2.22 million existing homes on the
market in May, today’s report showed. While that is up from 2.15
million a month earlier, the figures aren’t adjusted to reflect
the typical increase in inventory during this time of year.  Little Inventory  Last month’s supply was the smallest for any May since
2002. Listed inventory was 10.1 percent below a year ago.  “The housing market is too good,”  Lawrence Yun , chief
economist of the Realtors group, said at a news conference as
the figures were released. “It is breaking out again. It is
being accompanied by an increase in home values. We do need to
see a moderation of home-price growth and that can only come
from new supply.”  Housing starts need to increase to a 1.5 million annualized
rate to help temper home-price gains, Yun said. The market
remains well short of that goal after builders  broke ground  on
914,000 houses last month, according to figures from the
Commerce Department.  For some builders such as Fort Worth, Texas-based  D.R.
Horton Inc. (DHI) , the lack of housing inventory has given them room
to increase prices.  ‘Pricing Power’  “For the very first time in many, many, many years, we
have pricing power and a lot of that just deals with the lack of
lots that are available in the marketplace,” Donald J. Tomnitz,
chief executive officer, said in a June 12 presentation. “The
new-home inventory, as you know, the number of months’ supply
has decreased dramatically. And so we’re in a powerful position
to continue to increase prices as we move forward.”  Existing-home sales are recovering after reaching a 13-year
low of 4.11 million in 2008. The market  peaked  at a record 7.08
million in 2005.  The improvement in housing has rippled through the economy
to give a boost to home-improvement product makers including
 Masco Corp. (MAS) , builders, real estate brokers and mortgage lenders.  “Housing dynamics are improving,” Timothy Wadhams, chief
executive officer of Masco, said in a May 22 presentation. The
Taylor, Michigan-based company manufactures and sells home-improvement and building products such as cabinetry. “Demand is
picking up, inventories are very, very low. So we ought to see a
nice lift there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  