-- Samsung Unveils Windows Tablet With Android Applications
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-06-21T10:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/samsung-unveils-windows-tablet-that-runs-android-applications.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the biggest
mobile-phone maker, introduced its first tablet that can run
both  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows 8 and applications based on
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.  The ATIV Q tablet will let users share files between
Windows 8 and Android applications, Samsung said at an event to
unveil the new device in London yesterday. The hinged device
also has a keyboard that lets the tablet operate like a laptop.  Samsung is chipping away at  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s dominance in
tablet devices, touting rival operating systems as it mimics the
strategy that made it the most popular mobile-phone maker.
Shipments of Samsung tablets, No. 2 to Apple, more than tripled
in the first quarter from a year earlier, giving the Suwon,
South Korea-based company 18 percent of the market, according to
a May report from researcher IDC. Apple, with about 40 percent
of the market, saw shipments rise 65 percent.  “These tablets are the result of people-centric
innovation, and they were designed to provide consumers the
flexibility to manage their digital lives on their terms whether
they are in the office, at home or on the go,” said DJ Lee,
Samsung’s head of sales and marketing for mobile. The event,
hosted by Jason Bradbury of the U.K. television program “The
Gadget Show,” also featured vocal performances from Emeli Sande
and Will.i.am.  Tablet Popularity  Tablets, which are touchscreen computers that occupy a
space between laptops and smartphones, are expected to surpass
shipments of personal computers by 2015, researcher IDC said in
a report last month. Tablet shipments will grow 45 percent from
this year to 332.4 million as PCs decline.  Apple’s iPad started the boom when the device was released
in 2010. Cheaper alternatives to the iPad, which is priced from
$399, will drive wider adoption, IDC said. Cupertino,
California-based Apple began selling the iPad Mini last year,
which is priced from $329 on the company’s  website .  Samsung also introduced the ATIV Tab 3, which it’s billing
as the thinnest Windows 8 tablet, at approximately the thickness
of a smartphone, with a 10-hour battery life. In the Galaxy
line, they premiered the Galaxy NX camera, which can connect to
4G and runs on Android, allowing access to applications like
mail, music and maps.  On the PC side, Samsung debuted three new computers under
the ATIV label, its brand for devices that use the Windows 8
operating system. The ATIV Book 9 Plus has a high definition
screen and 12 hours of battery life while the ATIV Book 9 Lite
will be a scaled back version that “targets a larger consumer
base,” Samsung said.  Desktop PC  The company also introduced a desktop PC, the One 5 Style,
with a high-definition touchscreen. The PC also acts as a hub
for users’ content across a number of devices in the home,
letting users back up and share music and videos.  Microsoft introduced Windows 8, a reworked version of its
flagship operating system, to tablet users as it confronts the
slump in PC sales. Microsoft has also released its own tablet,
Surface, which has struggled to gain market share against Apple
and Samsung.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Smith at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net  