-- Bank Traders, Brokers Worked With Hayes on Libor
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-06-20T14:17:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/hsbc-rabobank-employees-conspired-with-hayes-on-libor-sfo-says.html
Tom Hayes, the former  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  trader, conspired with employees of at least five
other banks and three interdealer brokers over a four-year
period to manipulate yen Libor rates, prosecutors said.  Hayes appeared at a London criminal court for the first
time today where prosecutors laid out the charges against him.
The 33-year-old was charged with working with employees at
JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , HSBC
Holdings Plc, Rabobank Groep and Deutsche Bank AG, as well as
Tullett Prebon Plc,  ICAP (IAP)  Plc and RP Martin Holdings Ltd., the
U.K. Serious Fraud Office said in documents read out today.  The charges come almost a year after Barclays Plc became
the first of three banks fined as part of global regulators’
probes into the  London  interbank offered rate and other
benchmarks. Hayes has also been charged by the U.S. Justice
Department, which is running a parallel criminal investigation.  Hayes tried to manipulate rates “with the intention that
the economic interests of others would be prejudiced and/or to
make personal gain for themselves or another,” U.K. prosecutors
said in the indictment today.  Hayes faces eight counts of conspiracy to defraud in the
case, four covering the period from Aug. 8, 2006, until Dec. 3,
2009, while he worked at UBS, and the other four from Dec. 1,
2009 until Sept. 7, 2010, when he was at Citigroup.  Blue Shirt  Hayes, wearing an untucked, blue, button-down shirt with
the sleeves rolled up, spoke only to say his name, address in
Surrey,  England , and date of birth. His lawyer, Lydia Jonson,
declined to comment on a plea.  Judge Quentin Purdy transferred Hayes’s case from
Westminster Magistrates Court to a higher criminal court. He is
scheduled to appear at Southwark Crown Court on July 4. Charges
haven’t been filed in the U.K. against anyone else in the
investigation related to the manipulation of Libor.  The courtroom was filled with journalists and lawyers
representing other suspects in the investigation.  Hayes was granted a continuation of his bail conditions,
which includes a ban from travelling outside the U.K. He is also
barred from contacting other suspects in the case. Mukul Chawla,
a lawyer for the SFO, asked that the names not be read out in
open court.  ICAP said in a statement that it has cooperated with the
SFO probe.  Unnamed Employees  “We understand several other individuals have been
referred to in the charges against Hayes, including unnamed
employees of one of ICAP’s Global Broking subsidiaries,” ICAP
said. “However, no ICAP company has been charged.”  Tullett Prebon said that it hasn’t been informed by any
regulatory agency that its brokers are under investigation and
has been cooperating with all Libor probes.  HSBC spokesman Jezz Farr, JPMorgan spokesman  Brian Marchiony , RBS spokeswoman  Linda Harper , UBS spokesman Dominik von Arx, Deutsche Bank spokesman Sebastian Howell, RPMartin
spokesman Andrew Honnor, Rabobank spokeswoman Roelina Bolding
and Citigroup spokesman  Jeffrey French  declined to comment.  Hayes, a British national who worked in  Tokyo , was arrested
in the U.K. probe on Dec. 11 along with two employees of the
brokerage RP Martin. Hayes was charged on June 18 with eight
counts of conspiracy to defraud after he answered police bail in
central London.  Hayes joined UBS in 2006 and worked at the Swiss lender
until 2009, when he joined Citigroup. He was dismissed by
Citigroup less than a year later for involvement in suspected
rate-rigging, a person with knowledge of the matter said in
October. He worked at Edinburgh-based  RBS (RBS)  from 2001 to 2003.  The SFO said on June 18 that their probe into rate-rigging
is continuing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  