-- Senate Talks Reach U.S. Border Security Immigration Deal
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-06-20T18:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/senate-talks-reach-u-s-border-security-immigration-deal.html
The  U.S. Senate  rejected a
Republican border-security proposal as lawmakers said bipartisan
negotiators agreed to an alternative way to strengthen those
provisions in immigration legislation.  By a 54-43 vote, the Senate defeated Texas Senator  John Cornyn ’s plan to require the government to show it is
apprehending 90 percent of the people illegally crossing the
border from Mexico before undocumented immigrants in the U.S.
could gain permanent  legal  residency. Democrats and some
Republicans said Cornyn’s plan would have scuttled bipartisan
support for the legislation.  Republican senators including  John McCain  of Arizona and
 Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina  said today that bipartisan
negotiators agreed on a compromise to enhance border security.
Democratic Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York, another
negotiator, called it a “breakthrough.”  “It’s a provision that addresses the concerns of many
Republicans,” McCain said, adding that a “significant” number
of Republicans, including all four in the bipartisan negotiating
group, agreed to support the plan.  The Senate is in its second week of debate on immigration
legislation that seeks to balance Democrats’ goal of a path to
citizenship for about 11 million undocumented immigrants already
in the U.S. with Republicans’ demand for stricter control of the
border with Mexico. Senate Democratic leaders want to pass a
bill before July 4.  Border Patrol  The bipartisan plan would double the size of the U.S.
 Border Patrol  by adding 20,000 agents and would require 700
miles of fencing at the U.S.-Mexico border, said Graham, a co-sponsor of the Senate bill. The plan also would deploy unmanned
aerial drones and other added resources at the border.  “It’s solved the riddle of how we deal with border
security,” Schumer, a bill co-sponsor. “I think it’s a
breakthrough, and I’m optimistic it can help us get a large
number of votes on both sides of the aisle.”  Graham said the bipartisan proposal would require the
Department of Homeland Security to certify that the additional
border-security resources were in place before undocumented
immigrants could receive permanent legal status.  All employers would have to be using an E-verify system to
check workers’ legal status, and all airports and seaports would
have to use a visa entry and exit system, Graham said.  10 Years  “We believe all of this can be done in 10 years,” Graham
told reporters. In that case, it wouldn’t delay the Senate
bill’s plan to allow undocumented immigrants now in the U.S. to
begin receiving permanent legal status in 10 years.  Graham said it would take several years to hire and train
the new border-security agents and about five years to get E-verify fully operational.  Cornyn said today on the Senate floor that he was reserving
judgment on the proposal until he could review the details.
Still, he said doubling the number of border-security agents
would improve the bill.  “That’s a substantial movement in terms of boots on the
ground,” he said. “I’m looking forward to seeing the language
that’s being proposed.”  Republican Senators  Charles Grassley  of Iowa,  Jeff Sessions 
of Alabama,  Ted Cruz  of Texas,  David Vitter  of Louisiana and
 Mike Lee  of Utah said the compromise proposal wouldn’t do enough
to ensure the border is secure.  No Fix  Vitter told reporters that the compromise amendment was
designed “to pass the bill, not to fix the bill.”  “I think this is an attempt to pull out of the fire a bill
that has been weakening,” Sessions said.  As originally proposed, the legislation, S. 744, would
allow undocumented immigrants to gain permanent residency, known
as a green card, when the government has a “substantially
operational” plan for achieving a 90 percent apprehension rate
at the U.S. border.  McCain and Graham opposed Cornyn’s proposal and were
negotiating the alternative with Democrats and with Republicans
John Hoeven of North Dakota and  Bob Corker  of Tennessee.  “It brings on at least 15 Republicans, and I think
momentum is building,” Corker said of the proposal.  Senator  Mark Kirk , an Illinois Republican, praised the new
border-security proposal and said he would be prepared to vote
for the broader immigration plan if the proposal is adopted. He
was one of 15 senators, all Republicans, who voted on June 11
against taking up the bill.  Restoring Trust  “This bipartisan compromise will restore the people’s
trust in our ability to control the border and bring 525,000
people in Illinois out of the shadows,” Kirk said in a
statement.  Beyond the border-control debate, Republican Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah  is insisting on changes to the conditions under
which undocumented immigrants could become U.S. citizens as the
price for his support of the bill. Hatch has proposed
prohibiting non-citizens who gain legal status from obtaining
welfare benefits and requiring immigrants to pay back taxes to
qualify for temporary legal status.  The Congressional Budget Office  estimated  on June 18 that
the Senate bill would reduce the federal  budget deficit  by about
$175 billion over a decade and by $700 billion during the second
10 years after implementation. It said increased  tax revenue 
from new U.S. residents would outpace growth in the demand for
government services.  More Controls  Republicans including Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky and Marco Rubio of Florida, one of the
measure’s sponsors, have said they won’t support the Senate bill
without more stringent border control.  House Speaker  John Boehner  told reporters today that an
immigration plan must “have the confidence of the American
people that it’s done the right way.”  “That means confidence that our borders are secure,
confidence that those who came here illegally are not given
special treatment, confidence that hard-working taxpayers are
being respected” and that both parties support the final plan,
he said.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, met yesterday with members of
the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Afterward, Representative
Luis Gutierrez of Illinois said, “We made strong headway
towards resolving and fixing our broken immigration system.”
Gutierrez, a Democrat, is a member of a bipartisan House group
that plans to introduce a comprehensive immigration bill as soon
as next week.  Boehner has said he won’t bring an immigration proposal to
a vote unless most Republicans in his chamber support it.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  