-- Slovenia’s Economic Slump Set to Deepen on European Recession
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-06-20T13:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/slovenia-s-economic-slump-set-to-deepen-on-european-recession.html
Slovenia’s  economic slump  will
deepen further this year and next on an extended recession in
 Europe  and faltering demand in its home market amid a government
austerity push, the state’s economic institute said.  Gross domestic product will shrink 2.4 percent this year
compared with the previous estimate of a 1.9 percent contraction
made in March, the Ljubljana-based Institute for Macroeconomic
Analysis and Development said in an e-mailed statement today.
GDP will shrink 0.2 percent next year compared with the previous
estimate of 0.2 percent growth as the risks to the estimates
“remain big,” it said.  Indicators suggest “a greater drop in economic activity
for most of our trading partners,”  Bostjan Vasle , the
institute’s director said, according to the statement. The
forecast change is also due to the government’s stabilization
measures “which will negatively impact the economy,” he said.  Slovenia, a euro member that’s battling its second
recession since 2009, is gripped by a banking crisis, which is
further undermining growth prospects as the government of Prime
Minister Alenka Bratusek seeks to stabilize the financial
industry with the creation of a bad bank and a direct capital
boost for lenders of 900 million euros ($1.2 billion) to avoid
asking European partners for help.  The country’s bank asset management company, or bad bank,
will start taking out toxic loans starting June 28 from lenders
such as Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and Nova Kreditna Banka
Maribor d.d. to repair their balance sheets, restore lending to
the economy and aid the recovery.  Raise Tax  Prime Minister Bratusek’s Cabinet also pledged to raise the
 sales tax  starting next month, cut public sector wages and push
with the sale of state-owned enterprises to restore investor
confidence. The country has secured funding with the sale of
$3.5 billion of debt last month that will be used to
recapitalize banks and finance the budget. The budget shortfall
is set to rise to 7.9 percent of the gross domestic product by
year end, the highest in the European Union.  The yield on the benchmark dollar-denominated notes
maturing in 2022, which rose to a record 6.53 percent June 11,
advanced 9 basis points from yesterday to 6.36 percent at 12:51
p.m. in Ljubljana, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The nation’s export-driven economy shrank an annual 4.8
percent in the first quarter, the second-worst slump in the 27-nation EU after  Greece .  The estimates of the institute are used by the government
to plan budget spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  