-- Jordan Pledges SNB Determination to Defend Franc Ceiling
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-06-20T10:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/snb-vows-to-keep-up-franc-defense-on-euro-area-risks-correct-.html
Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  President Thomas Jordan pledged to defend the Swiss currency ceiling “with
utmost determination” after the central bank underlined the
measure’s importance in protecting the economy.  The franc remains “high” and the cap of 1.20 francs per
euro is “important in order to avoid an undesirable tightening
of monetary conditions,” Jordan said in Bern today after the
SNB kept the barrier in place. It also maintained the band for
its  benchmark interest rate  at zero percent to 0.25 percent, as
 forecast  by all 22 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The SNB’s  foreign-currency reserves  have surged to more
than 400 billion francs ($435 billion) as policy makers stepped
up euro purchases to curb flows sparked by the region’s debt
turmoil. Still, while Jordan last month said negative rates and
an adjustment of the cap were in the SNB’s toolkit if needed,
the franc has weakened 1.9 percent this year and all 49
economists in a Bloomberg survey predict the franc will average
higher than the cap in 2013.  “It’s very likely that the SNB hasn’t had to resort to
interventions recently,” said Maxime Botteron, an economist at
Credit Suisse Group AG. “The franc currently is probably less
of a problem for Swiss exporters than it was in the past. They
are more hurt by weaker growth globally.”  ‘High’ Franc  The franc traded little changed at 1.2331 per euro as of 12
noon in Zurich. Against the dollar it traded at 93.48 centimes.  “Overall, the value of the Swiss franc remains high and
should fall further over the next few quarters,” Jordan said.  The SNB put the ceiling in place in September 2011 after
investors pushed the franc close to parity with the euro,
threatening to thwart growth and sink the economy into
deflation. According to the SNB, without the cap Switzerland
would have suffered a severe recession.  While the euro area, Switzerland’s biggest trading partner,
is in its longest recession on record, the Swiss economy
expanded 0.6 percent in the first quarter, beating economist
forecasts as  consumer spending  drove growth.  The SNB predicted the Swiss economy to expand 1 percent to
1.5 percent this year, unchanged from its March forecast. Still,
in the second quarter, the SNB has seen a “perceptible
weakening” in growth, Jordan said.  Consumer Prices  “The risks for the Swiss economy remain high,” Jordan
said. “Further developments in the euro area financial and
sovereign debt crisis remain uncertain. Tensions can reappear at
any moment on global financial markets.”  Inflation remains weak, with consumer prices suffering
their their 20th straight month of declines in May. They are
expected to decline 0.3 percent this year, the SNB said,
compared with 0.2 percent previously forecast.  With Swiss consumer prices are in the midst of their
longest slump in at least four decades, investors have shown
that they take the SNB’s threat of supplementary measures
seriously.  Jordan’s comments on the SNB’s “utmost determination” to
defend the franc cap echoed previous SNB policy statements.
Still, the phrase wasn’t included in today’s assessment. Jordan
said this omission wasn’t a change in tone for the SNB.  The SNB president today reiterated that negative rates are
in the central bank’s arsenal.  Nothing Excluded  “We in Switzerland have always said that we won’t exclude
any instruments that would help us maintain adequate monetary
conditions,” Jordan said. “Adequate monetary conditions for
the Swiss are of course influenced by steps are possibly taken
in other currency areas.”  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  in May said
policy makers had an open mind on a negative deposit rate and on
June 6 listed it in a menu of options the ECB may deploy to aid
the 17-nation economy.  Swiss home and apartment prices have soared in recent
years, with mortgages kept cheap by the SNB’s easy policy. Keen
to prevent a repeat of the property market crisis of the 1990s
that hobbled growth for years, the SNB has sounded the alarm,
warning of overheating and a decline in  credit quality .  In February, the Swiss government followed a proposal by
the SNB and introduced new capital rules that as of Sept. 30
require lenders to hold an extra 1 percent of risk-weighted
assets linked to domestic residential mortgages. Even so, risks
to  Switzerland ’s housing market, as measures by the UBS Swiss
Real Estate Bubble Index, increased  in the first three months
of the year, raising the question as to whether authorities have
taken sufficient steps.  “In the event of a further build-up of risks in the Swiss
mortgage and real estate markets, it might prove necessary to
take further regulatory measures,” SNB Vice President Jean-Pierre Danthine said, adding that it “will regularly assess
whether an adjustment of the countercyclical capital buffer is
required.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Bern at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  