-- Sprint Raises Bid for Clearwire, Topping Dish’s Offer by 14%
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2013-06-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/sprint-raises-its-bid-for-clearwire-topping-dish-s-offer-by-14-.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , seeking to end
a bidding war with  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , raised its offer for
 Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  to $5 a share, 14 percent more than Dish’s
latest price, and lined up investor support for the deal.  The proposal, which would let Sprint acquire the
approximately 50 percent of Clearwire it doesn’t already own,
values the business at about $14 billion, according to a
statement yesterday. Clearwire’s board has endorsed the new
terms, withdrawing its support for Dish’s $4.40-a-share offer.  “The path that we took has created a fantastic value for
shareholders,” Clearwire Chief Executive Officer Erik Prusch
said in an interview. “This deal is going to be simple for us
to execute and we expect to close it quickly.”  The fight for Clearwire is part of a broader struggle
between Dish and Tokyo-based  SoftBank Corp. (9984) , which both are
seeking to enter the U.S. wireless market. Dish also has bid for
Sprint itself, though the carrier rejected that offer earlier
this month in favor of a sweetened SoftBank bid.  “It’s unclear what options Dish has left now,” said Tim Farrar, an analyst with TMF Associates Inc. in  Menlo Park ,
 California .  Sprint’s new Clearwire deal won the support of investors
Mount Kellett Capital Management LP, Glenview Capital Management
LLC, Chesapeake Partners Management Co. and Highside Capital
Management LP, which had opposed its previous proposal. The
shareholders agreed to sell their stock to Sprint even if the
transaction doesn’t close, hindering Dish’s ability to counter.  Shrinking Opportunity  With the new terms, Sprint will control 72.2 percent of all
Clearwire shares, leaving 27.8 percent outstanding. Dish’s
tender offer is contingent upon owning at least 25 percent of
Clearwire stock, meaning it would have to get almost all of the
other investors on board for its bid to be effective. Dish could
change its terms, though, to require a lower threshold, giving
it a chance to acquire a smaller stake.  Bob Toevs, a spokesman for Dish, declined to comment.  Clearwire shares  rose 7.3 percent to $5.05 yesterday in  New
York  trading. The stock had climbed 75 percent this year, lifted
by the bidding war. Dish fell 0.2 percent to $39.18, while
Sprint rose 1 percent to $7.07.  SoftBank agreed to acquire  Overland Park , Kansas-based
Sprint in October as part of the Japanese company’s global
expansion plan. Buying full control of Clearwire, a wireless-network operator, is a central piece of that strategy because it
would give Sprint and SoftBank access to valuable wireless
airwaves.  ‘Fantastic Deal’  Dish, meanwhile, wants to purchase a wireless company so it
can bundle mobile service with its satellite-TV offerings. Dish,
controlled by billionaire  Charlie Ergen , first bid $3.30 a share
for Clearwire in January, countering a $2.97 offer that Sprint
made in December. Sprint raised its bid to $3.40 and then Dish
countered again with a price of $4.40.  “We got into a competitive bidding situation along the
way, and our shareholders will benefit from it,” Prusch said.
“This is an absolutely fantastic deal.”  Dish, based in Englewood,  Colorado , made its unsolicited
bid for Sprint on April 15. The move forced SoftBank to increase
its price for Sprint to $21.6 billion earlier this month. Sprint
then set a deadline of June 18 for Dish to provide a new offer,
which the satellite company declined to do.  Clearwire, based in Bellevue,  Washington , had scheduled a
meeting on June 24 for shareholders to vote on Sprint’s earlier
offer. The decision will now be delayed until July 8, the
company said yesterday.  Clearwire will be required to pay a termination fee of $115
million if the current deal fails to close.  While Ergen could still purchase another carrier such as  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS) , getting Clearwire’s spectrum is key to his
strategy, Farrar said.  “It’s much more of a blow to Ergen if he can’t get the
Clearwire spectrum than not being able to buy Sprint,” he said.
“I’m not sure it makes much sense for Dish to buy T-Mobile
without the Clearwire spectrum.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner in New York at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  