-- Storm Wreaks Havoc in New Zealand as Power Cut, Schools Shut
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-06-21T04:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/storm-wreaks-havoc-in-new-zealand-as-power-cut-schools-closed.html
A polar storm caused chaos across
 New Zealand , shutting schools and the airport in the capital
city of Wellington and blanketing the South Island in snow.  Winds gusting to as much as 200 kilometers (124 miles) an
hour felled trees and cut power to about 30,000 homes in the
capital overnight. Some 8,000 homes were still without power at
2 p.m. today, supply company Wellington Electricity Lines Ltd.
said in a statement. The city’s international airport said
departures resumed around midday after dozens of flights were
canceled due to the wind.  Train and bus services were suspended and a ferry remains
stranded in Wellington harbor after breaking its moorings. Waves
outside the harbor were measured at 15 meters (49 feet) last
night, the National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research
said. That was probably bigger than the waves that sank the
Wahine ferry off Wellington in 1968, killing 51 people, though
sustained wind speeds did not match those recorded at the time
of the Wahine disaster,  NIWA  said in a statement.  As much as a meter of snow fell on the  South Island  as
temperatures sank to minus-5 degrees Celsius (23 degrees
Fahrenheit) in some areas, said Ramon Oosterkamp, manager of
public weather services at the MetService in Wellington.  “The source region for the air is the Antarctic,” he
said, adding the storm is not expected to abate until the
weekend. “We’re still in the middle of it.”  The storm stretched as far north as Auckland, New Zealand’s
largest city, where lightning strikes sent a pine tree crashing
through a house last night. No injuries were reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  