-- Strategic Hotels Turns From Penny Stock to Deal Target
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-06-20T20:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/strategic-hotels-turns-from-penny-stock-to-deal-target.html
Strategic Hotels & Resorts Inc. (BEE) 
traded as a  penny stock  four years ago. Now, it’s poised to
secure the lodging industry’s most expensive price tag since the
height of the U.S. real estate boom.  Shares of the owner of luxury hotels jumped to an almost
five-year high of $9.03 following a report last week that the
Chicago-based company may put itself up for sale. JMP Group Inc.
said Strategic Hotels could fetch as much as $13 a share. That
price would value the company’s equity and net debt at 26.5
times profit, the highest multiple among similar-sized hotel
deals since 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While Strategic Hotels has rebounded from the  record losses 
it had during the financial crisis, shareholder Orange Capital
LLC has been pushing for a sale of the $1.8 billion company
since February as the best way to boost  shareholder value . With
high-end properties such as the Essex House in Manhattan and
Ritz-Carlton resorts in  California , Strategic Hotels could lure
buyout firms or sovereign-wealth funds, Stifel Financial Corp.
and Evercore Partners Inc. said.  “They have a quality portfolio,” Ian Weissman, a New
York-based analyst at International Strategy & Investment Group
LLC, said in a telephone interview. “You might have buyers out
there that are willing to pay a premium for that.”  Bouncing Back  Strategic Hotels, a real estate investment trust, owns or
holds stakes in 18 high-end hotels including the JW Marriott
Essex House Hotel, the Manhattan hotel on Central Park South
that it acquired with funding from private-equity firm KSL
Capital Partners LLC in September. The company’s properties are
run by management firms such as  Loews Corp. (L) , Marriott
International Inc. and Ritz-Carlton Hotel Co.  Shares of Strategic Hotels reached as low as 61 cents in
March 2009 as a collapse of U.S. credit and real estate markets
helped fuel the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression. Although the stock has yet to reach its pre-crisis
peak in 2007 of $24.27, it has rebounded as losses  narrowed .  “The debt markets were shut and in theory if they had to
refinance their debt at that time, they wouldn’t have been able
to,” Rod Petrik, a Baltimore-based analyst at Stifel, said of
Strategic Hotels, which currently has $1.3 billion in  debt . Four
years ago, the stock was “trading at an auction value, but once
the tide started to subside and the  capital markets  came back,”
investors saw more value in the company.  Deal Talk  Strategic Hotels’s shares jumped 17 percent last week for
their biggest two-day gain in three years after Reuters reported
that the company hired brokerage Eastdil Secured LLC to explore
a sale, citing two sources familiar with the matter that it
didn’t identify. Eastdil is a unit of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   Megan Hakes, a spokeswoman for Strategic Hotels -- whose
properties also include the Loews Santa Monica Beach hotel and
the  London Marriott Hotel Grosvenor Square  -- declined yesterday
to comment on whether the company was exploring a sale process.  Orange Capital, with a  stake  of about 3.65 percent in
Strategic Hotels, said this week it hired investment bank
Houlihan Lokey Inc. to help solicit buyers for Strategic Hotels.  “It’s an amazing portfolio in that it’s almost impossible
to replicate this kind of asset base,” Daniel Lewis, co-founder
of the New York-based hedge-fund firm, said in a phone interview
this week. “The best price for this is not as a listed stock.
It’s an asset that belongs in the hands of long-term deep
pockets.”  Sale Push  The investment firm has been pushing for a deal since at
least February, when it urged an immediate sale of the company
as the “best alternative” to maximize value, estimating the
hotel owner could fetch as much as $14 a share in a transaction.
The letter came about three months after  Laurence Geller , leader
of Strategic Hotels since its formation in 1997, abruptly
stepped down as chief executive officer, a shift Will Marks of
JMP said removed a hurdle for potential buyers.  While Strategic Hotels responded to Orange Capital saying
it “strongly disagrees” with some of the investment firm’s
conclusions, the company’s board voted last month to accelerate
the expiration of a takeover defense.  JMP’s Marks said Strategic Hotels could be valued at as
much as $13 a share in a takeover, a 45 percent premium to
yesterday’s closing level of $8.94. A bid at that price would
value the company’s equity and net debt at 26.5 times the hotel
owner’s $161.5 million in  earnings  before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in the last 12 months.  High Valuation  The only deal for a lodging company or hotel real estate
investment trust valued at more than $1 billion that fetched a
higher multiple was the purchase of Four Seasons Hotels Inc. in
2007 by funds tied to Microsoft Corp. co-founder  Bill Gates  and
 Saudi Arabia ’s  Prince Alwaleed bin Talal , data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The bid for Four Seasons was announced in 2006.  Today, shares of Strategic Hotels fell 3.2 percent to
$8.65.  Potential suitors for Strategic Hotels could include
private-equity firms, sovereign-wealth funds and overseas
conglomerates looking to expand their U.S. presence, said Smedes Rose, a New York-based analyst at Evercore. A bid of $11 a share
would be a “reasonable starting point” in a Strategic Hotels
takeover, he wrote in a June 13 note to clients.  “It has a portfolio that includes a lot of hotels that are
considered basically iconic and irreplaceable,” Rose said in a
phone interview. “Those kinds of properties would be of
interest.”  Buyout Interest  A private-equity firm could likely sell Strategic Hotels’s
resort properties at a premium after a deal, offering
opportunities for further value creation, Weissman of ISI said.  TPG Capital,  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  or  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , which
a person familiar with the matter said is seeking to raise $4
billion for a new real estate fund, could be among interested
buyers, Weissman said in a June 13 note to clients.  Representatives for  Fort Worth , Texas-based TPG, New York-based Blackstone and Washington-based Carlyle declined to
comment on whether their firms would be interested in buying
Strategic Hotels.  A deal for Strategic Hotels at $13 a share would be
“pricey,” Marks, a San Francisco-based analyst at JMP, said.
Still, the quality of the hotel owner’s  properties  and a
lodging-market rebound could help justify the cost, he said.  “Some buyers ignore current  valuation ,” he said in a
phone interview. Luxury resort owners like Strategic Hotels tend
to attract acquirers “willing to pay a very high multiple in
private markets.”  Room Rates  Nightly room rates at luxury hotels have climbed 5.7
percent this year through April, according to Hendersonville,
Tennessee-based research firm Smith Travel Research Inc. That
was the biggest gain among the seven hotel categories that the
company tracks, the data show.  Low  interest rates  and investor demand for higher-yielding
assets such as commercial real estate and hotels also mean lofty
valuations are less likely to deter buyers, Marks said.  That means now is an attractive time for Strategic Hotels
to sell itself, Lewis of Orange Capital said.  “To me, it’s a question of what is the risk of hanging
around for the cyclical peak versus the fact that someone can
raise a large amount of low-cost capital and buyers are willing
to pay up for trophy assets,” Lewis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  