-- Stress Test for Banks Inflicting Collateral Damage: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-21T05:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/stress-test-for-banks-inflicting-collateral-damage-china-credit.html
China ’s decision to tolerate the
worst cash crunch on record is evolving from a stress test of
banks into a threat to the ability of companies to raise funds.  As their overnight borrowing  costs  neared 13 percent, banks
switched focus toward shoring up their own finances and slashed
investments in the bond market they dominate. The one-year  yield 
on AAA corporate debt jumped a record 121 basis points this
month to 5.15 percent, ChinaBond indexes show. Bond sales
slumped to 160.2 billion  yuan  ($26 billion) in June, the least
in 17 months and down 56 percent from May, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  China’s cabinet, led by Premier Li Keqiang, said following
a June 19 meeting that finance companies must do more to support
economic transformation and reduce risks, after administrative
measures to crack down on property and local government
investment failed to halt the accumulation of debt. The timing
of the credit squeeze has puzzled economists since official data
shows a worsening contraction in manufacturing, easing inflation
and a slowdown in foreign investment inflows.  “The current level of tightness in real market rates is
excessive and, if continued, may disrupt growth rather than make
it more balanced,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a strategist in Hong
Kong at Credit Agricole CIB. “Balancing growth would be
achieved easier by boosting consumption, not by restricting
credit. I think they will ease monetary settings soon, via open-market operations or reserve-requirement ratio cuts.”  Forecasts Lowered  The central bank has refrained from adding funds to the
financial system and sold 2 billion yuan of bills yesterday to
drain capital, even as money market rates hit a record high. The
World Bank, HSBC Holdings Plc, Morgan Stanley and UBS AG cut
2013 gross domestic product estimates for China this month.  A report showed yesterday China’s manufacturing is
shrinking at a faster pace this month. The preliminary reading
of 48.3 for a  Purchasing Managers’ Index (EC11FLAS)  released yesterday by
HSBC Holdings and Markit Economics is below the 49.1 median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. A reading
below 50 indicates contraction.  Zhu Haibin, chief economist of JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Hong
Kong, wrote in a report yesterday that there was a risk the PBOC
may artificially create a liquidity squeeze that would put
pressure on “already weak” economic activity.  Fund Flows  Yuan forwards were headed for their biggest weekly drop
this month after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said
the central bank may reduce monetary stimulus that helped spur
fund inflows to emerging-market assets. More than $19 billion
has left funds investing in developing-nation assets in the
three weeks to June 12, the most since 2011, according to U.S.
research firm EPFR Global. Foreign direct investment in China
rose in May by the least in four months.  The one-day  repo  rate dropped 442 basis points, or 4.42
percentage points, to 8.43 percent, after the central bank was
said to have made funds available to lenders. The rate touched
an all-time high of 12.85 percent yesterday, according to a
daily fixing announced by the National Interbank Funding Center
at 11 a.m.  The  yield  on China’s 10-year government bonds rose 26 basis
points this month to 3.70 percent yesterday, while the  rate  on
one-year debt climbed 69 basis points to 3.56 percent, ChinaBond
data show.  Regulators are forcing trust funds and wealth management
plans to shift assets into publicly traded securities, taking
so-called shadow banking funds away from property developers and
local-government finance vehicles. The China Banking Regulatory
Commission told banks in March to cap investments of client
money in debt that isn’t publicly traded at 35 percent of all
funds raised from the sale of wealth management products.  Money Supply  Shadow banking has thwarted efforts to rebalance the
economy. The increase in money supply exceeded the government’s
13 percent target every month this year, rising 15.8 percent in
May. Aggregate financing, a measure of credit that includes
trust loans, stock and bond sales, totaled 9.1 trillion yuan in
the last five months, a 52 percent jump from the first five
months of 2012.  “The PBOC clearly has an agenda here,” said Patrick Perret-Green, a former head of Citigroup Inc.’s Asian rates and
foreign exchange who works at Mint Partners in  London . “To fire
a massive warning shot across the banks’ bows and to see who is
swimming naked.”  He added that the moves fit in well with new Chinese
President Xi Jinping’s disciplinarian approach. Since becoming
president in March, Xi has vowed to combat corruption and
promised a “thorough cleanup” of the ruling Communist Party.  Shadow Banking  The central bank is trying to exert its influence over
shadow banking activities through its executive powers as it
waits for tougher regulations to be put in place, said Marshall Mays, director at Emerging Alpha Advisors Ltd., which advises
funds on investment of about $100 million as well as regulators
on market development. Policy makers want to create a credit
spread for corporate bonds that better assesses risk, while
keeping support for some state-owned enterprises, he added.  “This is a wake-up call for the SOEs,” Mays said in an
interview from  Manila . “A more cynical interpretation is that
the new government is starting by setting a harsh hurdle for all
and offering those who will come to the new throne and kiss the
new emperor’s ring a chance at a lower hurdle.”  The cost of protecting China’s government debt from default
surged 30.5 basis points to 133.6 basis points yesterday in New
York, according to prices from data provider CMA. The contracts
pay the buyer face value in exchange for underlying securities
or the cash equivalent if a borrower fails to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Waning Demand  Demand for bonds has waned in the past two weeks in the
primary market. The finance ministry sold 9.53 billion yuan of
273-day bills on June 14, less than its 15 billion yuan target,
and its 10-year auction on June 19 drew the least bids times the
amount on offer in 10 months.  Agricultural Development Bank of
China Co.  on June 6 raised 11.51 billion yuan in a sale of six-month bills, short of its 20 billion yuan goal.  The Export-Import Bank of China halved sale targets for a
June 14 auction of five- and 10-year bonds to 10 billion yuan
for each tenor. Agricultural Development Bank of China scaled
back the size of a bond offering on June 18 by 31 percent.  Nomura Holdings Inc. expects a “painful deleveraging
process in the next few months” that may result in defaults in
the manufacturing and non-bank financial sectors, according to a
report by economists Zhiwei Zhang and Wendy Chen yesterday.
Local government financing vehicles and property developers are
also at risk, the report said.  Deceleration Signs  “The cash crunch has hit the economy,” said Chen Jianheng, a bond analyst in Beijing at China International
Capital Corp., the nation’s biggest investment bank. “Banks are
extending less loans and their demand for bonds is falling. We
may see more signs of deceleration in economic figures next
month.”  Chongqing Commerce Group issued 500 million yuan of five-year AA-rated bonds at 5.43 percent last month. Quanzhou State-Owned Asset Investment Operation Co. sold 800 million yuan of
similar-rated and similar-maturity debt at a yield of 5.9
percent on June 18.  The yuan weakened 0.08 percent to 6.1328 per dollar as of
12:26 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. Non-deliverable forwards due in a year
strengthened 0.09 percent to 6.2995 in Hong Kong, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The discount to the spot rate was
2.8 percent yesterday, the deepest since February 2009.  Higher Costs  Economists forecast China’s gross domestic product will
expand 7.6 percent in the April-June period from a year earlier,
according to the median estimate of 35 respondents to a
Bloomberg News survey conducted from June 14 to 19. That
compares with a 7.8 percent median projection in last month’s
survey and first-quarter growth of 7.7 percent.  “If the liquidity squeeze worsens and the interbank rate
stays at such high levels for longer than expected, that will
lead to higher borrowing costs for companies,” said Tang Jianwei, a Shanghai-based economist at Bank of Communications
Co., the nation’s fifth-biggest lender. “It will be devastating
to an economy that’s already struggling,”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  