-- Success Means Shorter Summer Vacation for Spain’s Soccer Stars
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-06-20T04:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/success-means-shorter-summer-vacation-for-spain-s-soccer-stars.html
Spain’s success in international
soccer competitions has denied its top players the chance of a
vacation while some of their peers hit the beach for a rest.  With the majority of Europe’s leagues on their summer break,
 Andres Iniesta  and his World and European-champion teammates are
playing in their sixth international tournament since 2008 at
the Confederations Cup in  Brazil . They face Tahiti today in
their second match in four days.  “It’s difficult to be constantly at the highest level,”
Barcelona midfielder Iniesta, who’s played 52 games for club and
country this season, told reporters on the eve of the match in
Rio de Janeiro. “That’s why we train and take care of ourselves.
We have this passion to be on the pitch.”  Since ending a 44-year wait for an international trophy by
winning the 2008 European Championship, Spain has played in
international competitions every year with the exception of 2011.
It won its first World Cup in 2010 and last year successfully
defended its European title.  Iniesta, 29, has been at the center of the national team’s
recent success, including scoring the winning goal in the 2010
World Cup final. He’s also faced extended club seasons at
 Barcelona , which has won two European Champions League titles
since 2009 and twice reached the semifinals.  While Spain’s players seek the only international soccer
title to elude the nation in Brazil, rivals including Real
Madrid forward Cristiano Ronaldo have been pictured  resting up 
before the new season officially begins in August.  Domestic Slog  Most of Iniesta’s teammates play for Europe’s biggest clubs,
meaning longer domestic campaigns. Midfielder Javier Martinez
was part of the Bayern Munich team that won every competition it
played last season including the Champions League. Juan Mata
made 68 appearances for  England ’s Chelsea in 2012-13 as the
Blues won the second-tier Europa League.  Mata, 25, said winning titles helps keep fatigue at bay.  “It’s tough physically,” he said. “It was a tough and
long season for us, but at the end we won a trophy, so it was
good. And I really love to play with my national team, so the
only thing I can do is just train and look forward to playing.”  Players at the Confederations Cup, an eight-nation warm-up
event for the World Cup, will get extended leave before they’re
expected to report for club duty. Many will meet up with their
squads on pre-season overseas tours, where leading European
teams try to boost their revenue by playing exhibition games in
countries as far away as  Australia , the U.S. and  Indonesia .  “We don’t just play for ourselves, we play for many people
who admire us,” said Iniesta.  Rankings Gulf  Spain is the No. 1 team in governing body FIFA’s world
rankings, while today’s opponent Tahiti is  138th  of 207 nations.
The Pacific Islanders, who qualified by winning the 2012 Oceania
Nations Cup, were routed 6-1 by Nigeria in its opening game.  Spain coach Vicente del Bosque, whose team beat Uruguay 2-1
in its Confederations Cup opener on June 16, said that he’ll
give some fringe players a start against a Tahiti squad
featuring only one professional.  “We have one change in goal and some changes in the rest
of the team,” he said. “We have 23 outstanding players who are
constantly playing for their teams, and perhaps it’s a chance
for those who don’t play that much for the national side.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Maracana Stadium in Rio de Janeiro at 
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Baynes at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net  