-- Swiss Tax Bill, 10-Year Bonus Wait, EU Bank Losses: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-06-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/swiss-tax-bill-10-year-bonus-wait-eu-bank-losses-compliance.html
Swiss parliament rejected a bill
designed to resolve a dispute over undeclared bank accounts held
by U.S. citizens, potentially setting the stage for American
prosecution of the country’s banks.  Members of parliament’s lower house voted 123 to 63 against
the bill, which would have allowed Swiss banks to cooperate with
the U.S. and to settle a long-running dispute over wealthy
American tax evaders. The government has said it has no plan B,
in the event of the bill failing to pass.  Switzerland wants to prevent the indictment of another of
the country’s banks. Wegelin & Co. was indicted last year and
pleaded guilty in January to helping U.S. taxpayers hide assets
from the  Internal Revenue Service . The bank had taken over
clients from  UBS AG (UBSN) , which avoided prosecution in 2009 by
admitting it aided  tax evasion , paying $780 million and handing
over client names.  The bill, which the country’s banks supported, divided
institutions into four categories based on the size of their
American business and allowed them to hand over some information
-- though not client names. Parliamentarians criticized it
because the terms of the program, such as fines, were determined
by the U.S. and hadn’t been made public.  U.S. Department of Justice spokeswoman Dena Iverson didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment.  “I see big difficulties after today’s decision,” Swiss
Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf yesterday told Swiss
public broadcaster SRF.  The  Swiss Bankers Association  regretted parliament’s
decision, saying it was hard to gauge the consequences of the
step for the banking sector and the economy.  Compliance Policy  U.K. Bankers Face Decade Bonus Delay and Criminal Sanctions  Senior employees at  U.K. banks  may face a 10-year wait for
bonuses under proposals put forward by a committee investigating
the failures of the industry, which also recommended making
“reckless” management of lenders a crime.  A “substantial part” of variable compensation for the
highest earners at banks including Barclays Plc and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  should be deferred for up to a decade to better
align their interests with shareholders, the Parliamentary
Commission on Banking Standards said in a statement yesterday.
Its proposal to introduce a criminal offence for mismanagement,
which could see executives of failed firms facing jail time, was
endorsed by Prime Minister  David Cameron .  Pay reform is part of a program of sweeping change proposed
by the commission, a cross-party group of lawmakers set up last
year by Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  after a
series of scandals and five years of poor returns for the
financial industry. The report also called on the government to
introduce a register for bankers and consider breaking up  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc .  The proposals go further than changes introduced by U.K.
regulators after the financial crisis, which forced bankers to
wait up to five years to get their bonuses.  While some lawyers yesterday criticized the potential
criminal offense as unworkable in practice,  Andrew Tyrie , the
lawmaker who leads the committee, said the proposals are better
than the plan adopted this year by the European Union over U.K.
resistance. The EU aims to block banker bonuses of more than
double fixed pay.  For more, click here.  EU Weighs Minimum Bank Rule for Loss-Absorbing Liabilities  European Union nations are weighing whether globally
 systemic banks  should be forced to meet common minimum rules on
issuing unsecured debt and other liabilities that could be
written down by regulators in a crisis.  Representatives from the European Union’s 27 nations
yesterday in Brussels discussed draft plans drawn up by Ireland,
the holder of the EU’s rotating presidency, that would force
globally systemically important  banks  to ensure that at least 6
percent of their total capital and liabilities would be in
instruments that are eligible for forced losses, according to a
document obtained by  Bloomberg News . The total liabilities
figure would be calculated in a way that doesn’t include the
bank’s derivatives trades.  While the U.K., Netherlands and Finland have pushed for
such a minimum rule to be included in a draft EU law on how
regulators should handle bank crises, some other nations are
opposed to the plan, according to an EU official. Finance
ministers are set to seek a deal on the law at a meeting in
Luxembourg tomorrow.  The Financial Stability Board, a global group bringing
together regulators, central bankers, and finance ministry
officials from the Group of 20 nations, has set criteria for
determining if a bank is globally systemic. It publishes annual
lists of which lenders have the designation.  Affected banks, such as  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and
 BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , would be expected to comply by Dec. 31, 2016,
according to the Irish document.  Compliance Action  U.K. OFT to Review Competition in Banking for Small Businesses  The U.K.  Office of Fair Trading  will review whether a lack
of competition in banking is hampering lending and other
services to small and medium-sized businesses.  The  Competition and Markets Authority , a new regulator
taking over from the OFT and the  Competition Commission  later
this year, will use the study in deciding whether to start a
full investigation by 2015, the antitrust agency said in a
statement yesterday.  A parliamentary commission investigating banking failures
yesterday published a report criticizing lenders for a culture
of greed and pursuing short-term gains. It asked for the
government to consider splitting  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc  to separate bad assets and focus its operations on retail
and commercial banking.  The OFT said it welcomed the commission’s findings. It will
work with the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential
Regulation Authority, as well as the  Bank of England , and has
invited comments from small businesses.  Danske CEO Questions Bond Boom Prophecies After FSA’s Order  The head of Denmark’s biggest bank is questioning
predictions that corporate bonds will replace traditional bank
lending even as his own regulator adds to the cost of providing
loans to businesses.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  Chief Executive Officer Eivind Kolding made
the remarks in an interview in his office in Copenhagen.  Danske Bank is reaffirming its commitment to corporate
lending after the Financial Supervisory Authority ordered it to
adjust risk calculations in a step that will force the bank to
add about 100 billion kroner ($18 billion) to its risk-weighted
assets “over time,” according to a June 17 regulatory filing.  The move follows a campaign led by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  to force lenders to review their risk models
as global regulators work to prevent bank losses from hobbling
economic growth. The Danish FSA’s risk-weight rule comes on top
of additional capital demands linked to Danske’s too-big-to-fail
status. Industry groups, including the Danish Chamber of
Commerce, have warned that the FSA risks choking business growth
by pushing measures it says restrict lending.  FSA Director General Ulrik Noedgaard said the risk-weight
order will align Danske’s calculations with those used by banks
elsewhere in Europe and the Nordic region.  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  OECD Says Stateless Income Growing Concern in Many Countries  The  Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development 
Tax Chief Pascal Saint-Amans said double non-taxation, or
stateless income, “has been a growing concern in many countries
within the OECD and the EU.”  Saint-Amans made the remarks at an event in Dublin
yesterday.  “This means that some income generation from activities”
is untaxed anywhere,” Saint-Amans said. Coordinated action
needed to save integrity of tax standards, according to the tax
chief.  OECD standards aimed at avoiding double taxation “may have
been too successful” as they create loopholes allowing double
non-taxation, Saint-Amans said.  The tax chief said he sees no need for corporate tax
harmonization. Closing down “low tax jurisdictions does not
make any sense.” Instead, “let’s make sure that income derived
from business is taxed at least once,” he said.  Rehn Says Euro Area Set to Agree on ESM Direct Bank Aid  European Economic and Monetary Affairs  Commissioner  Olli
Rehn  said euro-area finance ministers will probably agree today
on the terms for allowing the European Stability Mechanism to
recapitalize banks directly.  He spoke at the Brussels Economic Forum.  Bernanke Says Volcker Rule Probably Will Be Completed This Year  Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said a “good bit of progress”
is being made on the Volcker rule and he expects it to be
completed this year.  Bernanke said some Dodd-Frank regulations, including the
Volcker rule, have “taken time” in part because they are
inherently complicated and regulators must do their “homework”
and “get this right.”  He also said the Fed is “very close to completing Basel
III,” referring to the accords based on work by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision. The biggest banks are at or
near the stage of being Basel III-compliant, he said.  The Securities and Exchange Commission, the Commodity,
Futures Trading Commission, the Fed, and Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency and the  Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation  are working to agree on a final rule, using the
Treasury’s Financial Stability Oversight Council as a
coordinator.  A final rule to ban proprietary trading at banks was due
July 2012; a proposed rule was issued Oct. 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 