-- Swiss Stocks Decline as Bernanke Outlines Stimulus Paring
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-06-20T08:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/swiss-stocks-decline-as-bernanke-outlines-stimulus-paring.html
Stocks in Switzerland  retreated the
most in a week after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said the central bank may cut bond purchases later this year if
the world’s largest economy strengthens.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  Group AG,  Switzerland ’s largest
lenders, dropped after the  Swiss National Bank  said they need to
improve their leverage ratios. Swatch Group AG and Cie.
Financiere Richemont SA slumped as Swiss watch exports fell in
May. Feintool International Holding AG rose 1.6 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  lost 1.5 percent to 7,615.48 at
10:17 a.m. in Zurich. The benchmark gauge is heading for its
fifth weekly decline amid speculation the Fed will start to
reduce its bond-purchasing program as early as September. The
broader  Swiss Performance Index (SPI)  declined 1.4 percent today.  “On the one hand, markets are being prepared for an end to
the bond purchases soon; on the other hand, it shows that it
won’t happen immediately,” Peter Buergler, a trader at Luzerner
Kantonalbank AG, wrote in a report today. “But markets have
reacted disappointed. They still depend on the drip of the ample
liquidity injections by central banks.”  The number of shares trading hands in SMI-listed companies
was 42 percent higher than the average of the past 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Fed may “moderate” the pace of bond purchases later
this year and could end them around mid-2014, Bernanke said late
yesterday. The  Federal Open Market Committee  said at the
conclusion of a two-day meeting in Washington that risks to the
outlook for the economy and the labor market have diminished.  The central bank said it will keep buying bonds at a pace
of $85 billion a month, and repeated that it’s prepared to
increase or reduce the pace of purchases depending on the
outlook for the job market and inflation.  Banks Fall  Credit Suisse slid 2.8 percent to 25.73 Swiss francs and
UBS slipped 1.4 percent to 16.39 francs. The banks still need to
improve their ratios of capital compared with total assets as
risk-weighted models are being called into question, the Swiss
central bank said today.  Swatch, the biggest maker of Swiss watches, sank 4 percent
to 513 francs, while Richemont, the owner of the Cartier brand,
fell 3.5 percent to 82.10 francs. Swiss watch exports declined
3.9 percent last month, the Federal Customs Office said today.  Feintool (FTON)  jumped 4.8 percent to 65 francs. The supplier of
metal-cutting equipment said it sold 1.49 million registered
shares at 62 francs each as part of a capital restructuring
process.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  