-- U.K. Banks to Satisfy BOE and Avoid Share Sales on Earnings
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-06-20T08:34:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/u-k-banks-to-satisfy-boe-and-avoid-share-sales-on-earnings.html
Britain’s biggest banks  said asset
sales and funds generated from internal growth mean they won’t
need to sell shares to meet the  Bank of England ’s 13.4 billion
pounds ($21 billion) in  capital requirements  announced today.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Lloyds Banking Group Plc and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  all said sales of businesses and packages of
loans and retained profits mean they won’t need to raise money
from equity investors.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Standard Chartered Plc
and  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ’s British division were told no extra
capital was required from them by the central bank today.  “The U.K. banks look set to broadly achieve the Prudential
Regulation Authority’s capital requirements without the need to
issue new equity,” Gary Greenwood, a banking analyst at Shore
Capital in Liverpool, England, wrote in a note to clients today.  The PRA, the BOE’s new banking supervisor, today outlined
the capital that lenders must raise by the end of 2013 to
withstand possible losses on loans, fines and other risks.
Outgoing Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said in a speech
last night that it was “too soon to say the job is done” given
lenders’ leverage levels.  “There is clearly some way to go before we can claim to
have a really well-capitalized banking system,” the governor
said at London’s Mansion House.  Mark Carney  takes over from King
on July 1.  Previous Shortfall  The central bank had previously found a capital shortfall
of 27.1 billion pounds when it last assessed lenders’ balance
sheets.  Bank shares fell in London trading today, though most of
them declined less than the benchmark FTSE 100 Index. Lloyds,
Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, slipped 0.1 percent as of 9
a.m. local time. RBS, the nation’s biggest government-owned
bank, dropped 0.7 percent, while Barclays slid 2.2 percent.  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, must
raise an additional 1.7 billion pounds in fresh capital, the
U.K. central bank said in its  statement .  Lloyds (LLOY)  and RBS must
boost capital by 7 billion pounds and 3.2 billion pounds
respectively, on top of plans they’ve already announced this
year, the BOE said.  Lloyds said it won’t need to offer new shares or sell any
contingent capital, instead accruing capital from the disposal
of a stake in asset manager St. James’s Place Plc, an auction of
U.S. mortgage securities and sale of its share of Sainsbury’s
Bank. The lender will generate more capital through retained
earnings, it said.  RBS Cuts  RBS, whose chief executive officer,  Stephen Hester ,
unexpectedly announced his departure last week, said it will
narrow its capital shortfall to 400 million pounds by the end of
this year. The Edinburgh-based bank will reach the goal through
cuts to its markets business and by applying the latest draft of
the European Union version of Basel III rules, known as CRD IV,
which will reduce capital charges. It will close the final gap
through retained profit in the first quarter of 2014, it said in
a statement today.  Barclays said earnings growth and sales of underperforming
assets through Chief Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins ’s
announced plans will mean the bank expects to exceed the PRA’s
target for capital of 7 percent of risk-weighted assets by the
end of the year.  The bank said it will add contingent capital instruments,
which are securities that convert to shares or suffer losses
should capital levels fall below a given threshold, “as we
believe contingent capital is a valuable source of going concern
capital.”  Co-Operative Bank Plc and  Nationwide Building Society  were
also required to raise capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  