-- U.S. Can’t Go It Alone on Derivatives
-- B y   M i c h e l   B a r n i e r
-- 2013-06-20T16:37:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/u-s-can-t-go-it-alone-on-derivatives.html
Over the past five years, the
European Union and the U.S. have developed separate, new
regulatory regimes for derivatives, aimed at protecting our
financial systems, economies and taxpayers from a repeat of the
2008 crisis. The next challenge is to use those reforms as the
foundation for a single, global framework.  European Markets and Infrastructure Regulation , the EU’s
strict and comprehensive set of rules for derivatives
transactions, became law in August and took effect in March.
EMIR fulfills the commitments made by the leaders of Group of 20
nations to improve safety and transparency by requiring
reporting and mandatory clearing for derivative trades. Trading
rules will soon follow.  Contrary to what some U.S. critics have said, EMIR is
broader in scope than the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, which
regulates U.S. markets. And in many ways, the EU rules are
stricter. For instance, in Europe, all financial companies
regardless of size are required to clear their derivatives
trades and report them to trade repositories, and there is no
carve-out for foreign-exchange transactions. The EU’s capital
standards for clearing houses are much tougher, too. And EMIR’s
transparency obligations, both pre-trade and post-trade, are
more rigorous than those in force in the U.S.  Supervisory Authorities  In addition, three new supervisory authorities have been
created to ensure effective and uniform enforcement across the
EU, with binding powers over national regulators. Penalties for
unlawful behavior have been increased.  The EU system creates a solid basis for cooperation between
international regulators. This is essential because the
derivatives market is global and all trades must be regulated in
broadly similar ways, wherever they are booked.  Yet in talks over the past two years, finding common ground
with the U.S. toward a global system has proved elusive. The
European approach is simple: If two countries’ laws address the
same concerns -- and offer similar regulatory oversight -- then
it is both logical and reasonable to mutually recognize
enforcement powers.  Some people in the U.S. disagree with this notion and
support imposing U.S. rules worldwide. Those who hold this view
say they are motivated by the desire to protect U.S. taxpayers
from financial crises, whether they occur in the U.S. or
elsewhere.  I share that concern. My job is to protect the European
taxpayer. But trying to impose national rules worldwide won’t
deliver the outcome we all seek.  The U.S. approach is flawed because it creates the
opportunity for regulatory arbitrage and inconsistencies that
put companies in the impossible position of having to comply
with rules in one country that are prohibited in another. This
fragmentation won’t work in a global market and would impose far
higher costs on companies -- including American ones -- that use
derivatives as a hedge.  Worse, the efforts by U.S. regulators to protect their
taxpayers from risk in other countries will be self-defeating.
Insisting on applying U.S. rules to global markets will
eventually mean that all trading and clearing is done within
U.S. jurisdiction -- and will bring to the U.S. all the
associated risks of the global market. If anything goes wrong,
there is no country -- not even the U.S. -- that can deal with
the staggering amount of global derivatives risk. Well-managed,
shared risk is in everyone’s interest.  Cooperation and mutual reliance, not confrontation, will
protect investors and taxpayers far better than duplication and
protectionism. The creation of such a binding, and mutually
beneficial, framework is one of the main reasons  Europe  wants
financial-services regulation to be included in the negotiations
toward a free-trade agreement with the U.S. that begin in July.  The EU and the U.S. can take a step toward a global system
when derivatives regulators meet today in  Montreal  to prepare
for the G-20 summit in September in  Russia , where progress
toward an international framework will be on the agenda. Because
of the size and interdependence of our derivatives markets, the
EU and the U.S. must take the lead in protecting the global
economy from the dangers of what the billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  once called financial weapons of mass destruction.  (Michel Barnier is European commissioner for the internal
market and services.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Michel Barnier  at  Michel.Barnier@ec.europa.eu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  