-- U.S. June Philadelphia Business Outlook Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-06-20T14:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/u-s-june-philadelphia-business-outlook-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Philadelphia area manufacturing activity from the Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia.   Jun-13  Manufacturing firms responding to the monthly Business Outlook
Survey indicated that regional manufacturing activity increased
this month. Most of the survey’s broadest current indicators
were positive this month, suggesting an improvement in business
conditions. The survey’s indicators of future activity continue
to suggest that firms expect growth over the next six months.  Indicators Suggest Improvement  The survey’s broadest measure of manufacturing conditions, the
diffusion index of current activity, increased from -5.2 in May
to 12.5, its highest reading since April 2011.  The percentage
of firms reporting increased activity this month (34 percent)
was greater than the percentage reporting decreased activity (22
percent).  Other current indicators showed similar notable improvement this
month. The demand for manufactured goods as measured by the
current new orders index increased, from -7.9 to 16.6. The
shipments index also moved back into positive territory, rising
13 points to 4.1.  Labor market conditions showed continued weakness, however, with
indexes suggesting lower employment among the reporting
manufacturers.  Although it increased 3 points to -5.4, the
employment index remained negative for the third consecutive
month. The percentage of firms reporting employment decreases
(20 percent) exceeded the percentage reporting increases (15
percent).  Price Indexes Move Higher This Month  The survey’s indexes for prices paid and received rose notably
this month. With regard to purchased inputs, 28 percent of firms
reported paying higher prices for inputs, while 6 percent
reported lower input prices. The prices paid index increased
nearly 16 points to its highest reading in six months. The
prices received index, reflecting firms’ own manufactured goods
prices, increased 18 points, to 14.6.  The percentage of firms
reporting higher prices for their own manufactured goods rose
from 7 percent in May to 20 percent this month. Still, the
largest share of firms, 76 percent, reported steady prices.  Six-Month Indicators Improve  The survey’s future indicators suggest continued optimism among
the reporting manufacturers. The future activity index increased
slightly (1 point) from its reading in May.  The percentage of
firms expecting increases in activity over the next six months
(45 percent) exceeded the percentage expecting decreases (12
percent) by a significant margin.  The future shipments and new
orders indexes improved, increasing 6 points and 7 points,
respectively. The future employment index also improved this
month, increasing 17 points. Thirty-three percent of firms
expect increases in employment over the next six months compared
with 24 percent last month.  In special questions this month, firms were asked to
characterize their plans for production and employment increases
over the next six months (see Special Questions). The firms were
nearly evenly divided between those expecting production
increases (49 percent) and those expecting not to increase
production (51 percent).  Twenty-five percent of the firms
indicated they were expecting production increases and would be
hiring additional workers over the next six months. The
remaining firms that expect production increases indicated that
this would be accomplished by increasing either work hours (12
percent) or productivity (7 percent).  For the firms not
currently expecting production increases, a larger percentage
indicated that increasing production could be accomplished by
increasing work hours (17 percent) or productivity (12 percent),
rather than increasing employment (11 percent).  Summary  The June Business Outlook Survey indicates an expansion of
activity this month, with all of the broad indicators -- except
for employment -- recording notable improvement over May.  Firms
reported higher prices for inputs and their own manufactured
goods this month. Firms continue to expect positive growth over
the next six months and were relatively more optimistic about
adding to payrolls.  Special Questions (June 2013)  1. Which of the following best characterizes your short-run
production and employment situation?  We expect to increase production over the next six months
49.3%
We do not expect to increase production over the next six months
50.7%  2. If your firm were to increase production over the next six
months (even if it is not currently expected), this would be
accomplished by:  Planning to        Not planning to  increase         increase  production by:     production,    Total  but could by:
Adding additional workers 25.3%             10.7%        36.0%
Increasing work hours     12.0%             17.3%        29.3%
Increasing worker productivity 6.7%         12.0%        18.7%
Other                      5.3%              2.7%         8.0%
NR                         0.0%              8.0%         8.0%
Totals                    49.3%             50.7%       100.0%  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 