-- UBP Tells Clients to Buy European Stocks as Gold Fades
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-06-20T10:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/ubp-tells-clients-to-buy-european-stocks-as-gold-fades.html
Union Bancaire Privee, the Swiss
wealth manager founded by Edgar de Picciotto, is urging clients
to buy more European stocks, including consumer and industrial
companies, and to reduce investments in gold.  Stronger economic indicators such as falling unemployment
in  Spain  and increasing investor optimism drove UBP to increase
investments in equities including  Beiersdorf AG (BEI) , the German
maker of Nivea skin cream, according to Chief Investment Officer
Alan Mudie.  “It’s not a consensus view and the fact the asset prices
are depressed creates the opportunity for some very cheap and
attractive assets that we’re recommending,” Geneva-based Mudie,
57, said in a telephone interview.  UBP, which oversaw 80 billion Swiss francs ($86 billion) of
managed assets at the end of last year, is also encouraging
customers not to shun all companies in  Europe ’s more indebted
countries. Ignoring stocks in Europe’s periphery is
“unjustified” as some companies are “world class,” according
to Mudie.  UBP recommends  Prysmian SpA (PRY) , the Milan-based cable
supplier,  Tod’s SpA (TOD) , the Italian shoe retailer that also owns
the Fay and Hogan brands, and  Luxottica Group SpA (LUX) , the maker of
designer eyeglasses, Mudie said. Picks in Spain include Repsol
SA, the Spanish oil producer.  Euro Fall  UBP expects the euro to fall below $1.30 and toward $1.24
or $1.25 before the end of this year, reducing labor and
financing costs for European companies and boosting the appeal
of those that export to countries using other currencies.  UBP’s call to boost the proportion of investments in
equities and convertible bonds in a model multi-asset portfolio
to 38 or 39 percent hasn’t convinced everyone. Clients have
shown a “high degree of skepticism” of the idea to focus more
on riskier, European-based assets, he said.  While clients should keep a portion of their portfolios in
gold as an “anchor” in an environment where central banks
printing money can devalue certain currencies, UBP typically
suggests holding 7 percent of investments in the precious metal,
compared with more than 14 percent at the end of 2011.  “As the global economy and financial markets are going
through a healing process, the use of gold by investors as a
safe haven asset has become less of a factor than it has been
over the last two years,” Mudie said.  Gold slumped 22 percent this year amid speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will pare its quantitative easing that helped
the metal cap a 12-year bull run last year. Gold entered a  bear
market  in April as some investors lost faith in the metal as a
store of value amid low inflation and a global equity rally.
Declining prices prompted outflows from exchange-traded funds
tracking the metal, Mudie said.  UBP, is rebuilding through acquisitions after customer
assets slumped 55 percent from 2007 to June 2011. UBP said last
month it agreed to buy parts of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s
international private-banking business and it integrated ABN
Amro Bank NV’s Swiss private bank in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  