-- Lundbeck, Technicolor, VKontakte: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-06-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/lundbeck-technicolor-vkontakte-intellectual-property.html
H. Lundbeck A/S (LUN) , the Nordic region’s
second-largest drugmaker, was fined 93.8 million euros ($125.6
million) by the European Union in its first case over pay-for-delay deals that held back sales of cheaper generic drugs.  The European Commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator, also
fined a group of generic-drug makers a total of 52.2 million
euros yesterday in Brussels. The companies reached agreements
that may have slowed the availability of generic versions of
Lundbeck’s antidepressant citalopram, marketed as Celexa,
according to the regulator.  Antitrust regulators on both sides of the Atlantic are
focusing on how settlements between companies that make branded
medicines and generics producers might harm consumers. Les
Laboratoires Servier and  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
the world’s largest generic-drug maker, were sent statements of
objections by the EU in probes over possible delays for generic
drugs last year.  The EU decision is complemented by a U.S. Supreme Court
decision this week that drugmakers can be sued for paying rivals
to delay low-cost versions of popular medicines. That decision
rewrites the rules governing the release of generic drugs by
reversing a lower-court decision that had effectively insulated
pharmaceutical companies from liability.  “We are surprised and disappointed that the EU commission
has reached this erroneous conclusion, which we totally disagree
with, and it is therefore our intention to appeal,” said Ulf
Wiinberg, chief executive officer of Copenhagen-based Lundbeck.  Merck KGaA (MRK)  was fined 21.4 million euros, of which it will
share a 7.8 million-euro penalty with Generics UK, a  unit  of
Mylan Inc.  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY)  was fined 10.3 million
euros. Zoetis Products and Xellia Pharmaceuticals, which was
bought last month by  Novo A/S , were jointly fined 10.5 million-euros, while  AL Industrier AS (ALIA)  was held jointly liable with them
for 43,216 euros of that amount.  Ranbaxy said in e-mailed statement that the commission
“misunderstood the facts” in the case and that it intends to
appeal.  Merck is weighing an appeal, Gangolf Schrimpf, a spokesman
for the company, said in a phone interview. “The fine will not
have any impact on our 2013 financial result,” he said.  Watson Pharmaceutical Inc.’s Arrow unit was fined 10
million euros, of which Resolution Chemicals is jointly held
liable for 823,735 euros.  Technicolor Loses Bid to Revive Patent Cases at Trade Agency  Technicolor SA (TCH) ’s Thomson Licensing unit lost its appeals
court bid to revive patent-infringement claims over liquid-crystal displays against Taiwanese manufacturers including  AU
Optronics Corp. (2409)  and Chimei  Innolux Corp. (3481)   Two Thomson patents on LCDs in computers and televisions
are invalid, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit
said yesterday in an  opinion  posted on its website. The court
upheld a ruling by the U.S. International Trade Commission in
favor of the manufacturers.  In dispute were patents 5,978,063 and 5,648,674.  The case is Thomson Licensing SAS v. International Trade
Commission, 2012-1536.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Apple, Amazon Fail to Settle Trademark Case Over ‘App Store’  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Amazon.com Inc. failed to settle a
trademark-infringement lawsuit over Amazon’s use of “ app
store ” after two rounds of talks in a case scheduled for trial
in August.  Lawyers for the companies spoke by phone for 45 minutes on
June 14 and an all-day meeting was held on May 1 that included
BJ Watrous, Apple’s chief  intellectual property  attorney, and
Andrew DeVore, Amazon’s assistant general counsel, according to
filings in federal court in Oakland, California. Neither meeting
resulted in settlement, according to the filings, which didn’t
have details about the talks. A trial is set for Aug. 19.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, is seeking a court
order to block Amazon from using the term Appstore in its
service to sell software for devices running Google Inc.’s
Android operating system. Apple alleges the online retailer
infringes its trademark and violates unfair competition laws.  Apple started its App Store in 2008. Seattle-based Amazon,
which started its service in March 2011, says the term is a
generic one that Apple doesn’t have exclusive rights to.  David Eberhart, an Apple attorney, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the case. Marty Glick, a
lawyer for Amazon, had no comment.  The case is Apple Inc. v.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , 11-cv-01327,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  Unilever’s Challenge to McPherson’s ‘Catwalk’ Application Fails  Unilever Plc (ULVR) , the London-based consumer products company,
lost a trademark battle in  New Zealand , the New Zealand Herald
 reported .  The dispute was over the term “catwalk,” which Unilever
uses for hair-care products, according to the Herald.  McPherson’s Consumer Products Ltd. had applied to register
the term for a number of foot- and skin-care products, and
Unilever opposed the application, the newspaper reported.  New Zealand’s  High Court  ruled that the assistant
commissioner of trademarks had correctly decided that Unilever’s
“catwalk” mark wasn’t that well known in the country, and the
consumer products company wasn’t allowed to block McPherson’s
application, according to the Herald.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  VKontakte Says Numbers of Takedown Demands Are Increasing  Following approval by Russian lawmakers of a new anti-piracy law June 14, users of VKontakte,  Russia ’s main social
networking site, began finding takedown notices instead of
content from their favorite performers, the TorrentFreak
copyright and file-sharing news website  reported .  VKontakte, which allowed users to upload music to their
accounts for access by anyone, had become one of the largest
repositories of unlicensed music in the world, according to
TorrentFreak.  Company spokesman Georgy Lobushkin told TorrentFreak that
while his company had always removed audio and video recordings
upon receipt of legitimate complaints, the number of takedown
requests has increased.  He said his company is selective in what it removes and
most of the audio will remain on the site, according to
TorrentFreak.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 