-- Hungary Central Bank Ready to Act, Cinkotai Tells Napi
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-06-20T10:07:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/hungary-central-bank-ready-to-act-cinkotai-tells-napi.html
Hungary is prepared to counter
financial turbulence if markets deteriorate, central banker
Janos Cinkotai said as the forint fell and bond yields soared on
the U.S. Federal Reserve’s plan to taper its stimulus program.  “The Monetary Council is ready to act if financial-market
conditions were to fundamentally reverse,” Cinkotai said,
according to a transcript of an interview published in Napi
Gazdasag newspaper today. “The  central bank  has tools at its
disposal to intervene in case of financial-market turbulence.”  Investors are pulling money from  emerging markets  at the
fastest pace in two years as slowing economic growth and the
prospect of less global stimulus sink stocks, bonds and
currencies from  India  to  Brazil . More than $19 billion left
funds investing in developing-nation assets in the three weeks
to June 12, the most since 2011, according to EPFR Global.  Hungary’s scope to push through more cuts is narrowing
after the Magyar Nemzeti Bank reduced the  main interest rate  by
a quarter point in each of the past 10 months to a record-low
4.5 percent. The forint plunged along with emerging-market
currencies and bond yields rose after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday that the U.S. central bank will probably
taper its $85 billion in monthly bond buying later in 2013 and
halt purchases around mid-2014 as long as the world’s largest
economy performs in line with Fed projections.  The forint dropped 1.3 percent to 298.38 per euro by 9:50
a.m. in Budapest, the weakest since June 11. The yield on the
10-year government bond soared to 6.58 percent today, the
highest in almost three months, compared with 5.96 percent
yesterday and a record low 4.93 percent on May 16.  Investors Split  Investors are now split on whether the Hungarian central
bank will continue to reduce borrowing costs this month and have
priced in at most a quarter-point cut for the rest of the year,
according to forward rate agreements.  The one-month forward rate traded 15 basis points below the
Budapest interbank offered rate today. The six-month forward
rate traded 11 basis below the BUBOR, indicating that investors
are scaling back expectations even for a quarter-point cut the
rest of 2013. That compared with the 1 1/4 percentage point
reduction priced in on May 15 for the next six months.  Inflation near a 39-year low and an economy emerging from a
recession last year are “consistent with a lower central  bank
rate ,” central bank policy makers said, according to the
minutes of their May 28 meeting. A day later, MNB President
 Gyorgy Matolcsy  said “those may be right who see further room
on a rate-cut path.”  Market Signal  Still, the central bank “is considering ways to signal to
the market the principles for ending the rate-cut cycle,” state
news service MTI reported on May 31, citing Vice President Adam Balog. The bank has an internal study on a “neutral  interest
rate ” which doesn’t necessarily limit an easing or tightening
cycle, Balog said.  The central bank may reduce the two-week deposit rate to
3.5 percent in the next three to four months before being forced
to raise it to about 5 percent in 2014, Budapest-based
 Szazadveg , which advises the government on policy, said on June
18 in an e-mailed report before Bernanke’s comments. Szazadveg
said the end of the “era of cheap money” would force a partial
reversal of the easing.  The next rate-setting meeting is scheduled for June 25,
with all 15 economists in a  Bloomberg survey  predicting a
quarter-point cut to 4.25 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  