-- Turkey Announces Plan to Restrict ‘Fake’ Social Media Accounts
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-06-20T10:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/turkey-announces-plan-to-restrict-fake-social-media-accounts.html
Turkey  will prevent the opening of
“fake” social media accounts as part of its efforts to
criminalize the incitement of protests, Deputy Prime Minister
Bekir Bozdag said today.  Hundreds of thousands of fake accounts have been opened
since protests erupted on May 31, disseminating lies and slander
and using social media like a “weapon” to incite hatred,
Bozdag told reporters in Ankara today. “The opening of fake
accounts by individuals will be prevented,” he said. “Slander
is a crime under law whether it comes from Twitter, Facebook,
news websites, television or from the squares.”  Bozdag ruled out any ban on social media, while warning
that the government is working to regulate online activity.
“Everyone should know that there is no freedom to commit crimes
in this space,” he said. “If someone opens an account,
everybody will know who it is.” He didn’t elaborate on how that
will be achieved.  Anti-government protests have eased this week. Police
cleared a protest camp out of Gezi Park in central Istanbul on
June 15, and clashed with protesters in many parts of the city
the following day. The demonstrations, which began in opposition
to a planned redevelopment of the park, have broadened to target
what participants say is the authoritarian approach of Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s government.  The Turkish hacker group Redhack yesterday claimed
responsibility on Twitter for all postings related to protests
over Gezi Park. Redhack has given tips to protesters to avoid
being charged with “sharing provocative messages,” after
police detained 29 people in the Aegean city of Izmir for online
activity, Hurriyet Daily News said today.  The group has advised individuals to blame Redhack for the
tweets and say their accounts were hacked, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  