-- Turkey’s Old-Guard Opposition Fights to Surf Wave of Unrest
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n   a n d   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-06-20T10:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/turkey-s-old-guard-opposition-fights-to-surf-wave-of-unrest-1-.html
The protesters who occupied central
Istanbul and filled streets and squares nationwide in the past
month have made it clear what they’re against: Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s government. The country’s main opposition party admits
it has yet to offer them something to support.  A picture has been circulating among activists on social
media since the unrest began last month. It shows Kemal Kilicdaroglu, leader of the main opposition, and nationalist
chief  Devlet Bahceli , and the caption reads: “We’re not here
for you. We’re here because you couldn’t do it.” Kilicdaroglu
said in an interview that the protests show his party erred by
ignoring Turkey’s youth and their demands for change.  “These kids communicate with other nations and demand to
have the same confidence about this country’s citizens too,” he
said on June 15. “So far we have made them fear others so they
vote for us. Now we see how wrong we have been.”  Local and presidential elections are due next year,
followed by a parliamentary vote in 2015. The onus is on the
opposition to broaden its appeal and capitalize on the view,
expressed by many at demonstrations in the past month, that the
government has become too authoritarian and Islamist. That’s
especially true for Kilicdaroglu’s party, the traditional
vehicle for Turkey’s more secular voters. In 2011, when
Erdogan’s  Justice and Development Party , or AKP, won 50 percent
of the  vote , Kilicdaroglu got barely more than half of that.  “Those who want topple the government must work as hard as
we do,” Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdag said today.  ‘Old Guard’  Kilicdaroglu’s Republican People’s Party, or CHP, created
by the country’s founder Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and often labeled
Kemalist, has been identified with the suppression of religious
freedoms under military and civilian governments, which Erdogan
says he has reversed. After interviewing demonstrators in Gezi
Park near Istanbul’s Taksim Square, the center of protests,
research firm Konda found that 47 percent said there was no
suitable party for them to vote for.  “From now on, opposition to the AKP will not be solely or
even primarily be identified with the Kemalist old guard CHP,”
said Halil M. Karaveli, a senior fellow at the Central Asia-Caucasus Institute and Silk Road Studies Program based in
Washington and  Stockholm . “Whether that can be turned into an
effective, new opposition party is an altogether different
matter, and I believe, unlikely.”  Three Wins  More likely, “once Erdogan has left the stage, is that the
old alliance between conservatives and liberals, that once
brought the AKP to power, is resurrected under a more moderate
leadership,” he said.  Erdogan shows no signs of leaving the stage. At rallies in
Ankara and Istanbul last weekend, where the party bussed in
supporters and the hundreds of thousands attending dwarfed
protester numbers, he urged supporters to answer the
demonstrators at the ballot box, and reminded them of the
economic legacy that has brought him three election wins.  That includes an average  growth rate  exceeding 5 percent,
plunging  inflation  and  interest rates , and the clearing of
Turkey’s debts to the  International Monetary Fund . In the
previous decade, average growth was about two percentage points
lower, rates often exceeded 100 percent, and the country was
forced to seek IMF loans amid recessions and bank failures.  Erdogan’s party draws its strongest support from among
poorer Turks. Many of the protesters came from wealthier middle-class backgrounds, and Konda found more than half were
university graduates.  ‘New Beginning’  Kilicdaroglu’s party has opposed policies including state
asset sales, Erdogan’s readiness to negotiate with Kurdish
separatists, and his removal of restrictions on religious
expression or customs such as the Islamic headscarf.  It has also spoken against Erdogan’s campaign to curb army
powers, which has included the jailing of hundreds of officers
on charges of plotting coups.  “This is a new beginning,” Kilicdaroglu said in the
interview in Istanbul. “We learned that we need to change our
policies, which are based on fears of religion, Kurds dividing
the country, or military coups.”  The clashes sparked in Gezi Park have left at least four
people dead and thousands injured, and battered Turkish stocks
and bonds. Government spokesman Huseyin Celik yesterday
estimated the damage at 140 million liras ($74 million), and
tourism agents reported a drop in bookings.  Opposition ‘Vacuum’  While accepting that some protesters have legitimate
environmental concerns and promising a public vote on any plans
to redesign Gezi, Erdogan has repeatedly described demonstrators
as extremists and blamed the Republicans for supporting
“vandals” and “riff-raff” because it couldn’t win at the
ballot box.  He also says that the weakness of the opposition is a
deficit for Turkish democracy. While it benefits his party, “we
regard such a vacuum of opposition in  Turkey  as a misfortune,”
Erdogan said yesterday. Egemen Bagis, the minister for European
Union negotiations, said today that tensions would not have
reached boiling point had there been an effective opposition.  “I call on these young people to establish a political
party,” Bagis said. “They would both force us to work harder,
and take a step for the good of the country.”  In a report on June 11, Moody’s Investors Service cited “a
weak and ineffective political opposition” as a reason for
people pouring into Turkey’s streets.  ‘Same Old Country’  It’s a view that echoes among protesters, even though their
primary target was Erdogan. Konda’s survey last week of 4,411
demonstrators found that 41 percent said they voted for the
Republicans in 2011, and 31 percent of them would do so again.
The protestors were evenly split between men and women, with an
average age of 28. Just 2 percent said they’d voted for Erdogan.  “The opposition parties don’t give any hope about turning
these protests into political benefits,” said Osman Ulagay,
author of “Who Will Own This Country?” a study of political
and sociological changes in Turkey. As a result, the protesters
“don’t feel represented.” Still, he said, the Republicans are
likely to remain the country’s only alternative to the AKP.  For some demonstrators that was a dispiriting thought.  “We have achieved a lot here,” said Okan Ozkan, the 19-year-old leader of a group called Turkish Youth Unity, at its
stand in Gezi, before police stormed and cleared the park on
June 15. “But we are afraid that as soon as the protests are
over it will be the same old country again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net ;
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  