-- Murray May Need to Beat Three Champions to Win Wimbledon
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-21T10:42:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/murray-may-need-to-beat-three-champions-to-win-wimbledon.html
A year after telling the Wimbledon
crowd he was “getting closer” to his first Grand Slam tennis
championship,  Andy Murray  may benefit from a draw that allows
him to avoid either titleholder  Roger Federer  or  Rafael Nadal .  The three men are on the same side of the draw, with
Federer and two-time champion Nadal scheduled to meet in the
quarterfinals. The winner would then play Murray, should the
tournament follow their seedings. The man who wins could face
top seed and 2011 champion Novak Djokovic in the final.  Murray’s tearful July loss to Federer in  London  was
followed by a gold medal on the same grass court at the Olympics
in August and his first major singles championship at the U.S.
Open in September. He’s still under pressure to end Britain’s
77-year wait for a home-grown male singles champion at the All
England Club. Whoever he’ll face, the 26-year-old Scotsman said
he’s ready.  “You’ve got to go in there, work hard, and be prepared to
go through some tough moments and find a way to deal with
them,” Murray told reporters after winning his third title on
the grass courts of London’s Queen’s Club last weekend.  His win in New York over Djokovic -- his first in a Grand
Slam final after four losses -- will help him at Wimbledon,
which starts June 24.  Done it  “He’s won a Grand Slam, he’s done it already,”  Jo Durie ,
a former top-five British player who is now a Eurosport
commentator, said in an interview. “Now it’s not like Wimbledon
will be his first one.”  Murray will play  Germany ’s Benjamin Becker in his first
round match, while Djokovic will take on Florian Mayer, another
German. Nadal meets Steve Darcis of Belgium and Federer faces
 Romania ’s  Victor Hanescu .  Murray is the 5-to-2 second choice of U.K. bookmaker
 William Hill Plc (WMH)  to win the title. That means a successful $2
bet would bring in $5 plus the original stake. Djokovic of
 Serbia  is the 15-8 favorite to win his second Wimbledon
championship, with Nadal, the reigning  French Open  winner from
 Spain , at 3-1 and Federer, the defending champion from
 Switzerland , at 5-1.  Having missed the French Open to rest a lower-back injury,
Murray is possibly “hungrier” and “a little fresher,” than
the competition, seven-time major singles champion  John McEnroe 
said on an ESPN conference call this week.  McEnroe criticized the All England Club for making a 12-time major champion, the fifth seed.  Nadal Slips  Nadal has slipped to No. 5 on the ATP World Tour rankings
after a seven-month injury break following a second-round defeat
at Wimbledon last year. Instead, his Davis Cup teammate  David Ferrer , who made his first Wimbledon quarterfinal last year, is
the No. 4 seed. Wimbledon bases its seedings on a formula --
agreed upon with the ATP -- that rates grass-court performance
over the past two years as well as ATP points as of June 17.  Nadal has beaten Murray three times at Wimbledon, and
making the Spaniard the fifth seed will have “an enormous
impact” on the top four, McEnroe said a day before the seedings
were announced.  Having won Olympic gold and the U.S. Open “obviously
helps,” Murray said at Queen’s after he beat  Croatia ’s Marin Cilic in the final. “All of the slams or the big events or big
matches that I play in now, I would hope that I’d have a little
bit more confidence in myself and a bit more belief, but just
because it’s Wimbledon doesn’t mean that, because I won the  U.S.
Open  I’m going to do great there or because I played well on the
grass last year.”  Recent Wins  Federer heads to Wimbledon having ended a 10-month
championship drought in Halle, Germany, last weekend. With 13
grass-court titles -- seven at Wimbledon and six in Halle -- the
Swiss right-hander has the best grass-court winning record of
all time, with a 121 matches won against 17 lost (.877).  “They are exactly the kind of wins I need at this part of
the season,” Federer, 31, said in Halle. “I’ve been preparing
well. I’m happy it’s paying off. It’s obviously important for my
confidence looking forward to Wimbledon now.”  Although Federer lost in the quarterfinals on the clay of
the French Open, “he still has such a great game for grass,”
McEnroe said. “But it’s tough to win it back-to-back at his
age.”  Wimbledon Target  Chris Evert  said on the ESPN call that she has “a sneaking
suspicion that Federer has put all his eggs in one basket and
he’s gunning for Wimbledon.”  It doesn’t get any easier as you get older, said Evert, who
retired at age 34 with 18 Grand Slam singles titles.  “When you get to be at the 28, 30, 31 age, you played 10
years, 12 years, 15 years on the tour, there are days that it
isn’t there,” she said. “There are days your body is not
working.”  Murray will have to overcome yet another year of ‘Murray
Mania’ in the British media as he tries to become the first
British man since  Fred Perry  in 1936 to win Wimbledon.  “It’s hard,” said Durie, who played 18 times at Wimbledon
and reached the 1984 quarterfinals. “It’s something that you
live with, you do feel more expectation, that’s for sure.
Overall, Murray handles it brilliantly. He can kind of partition
it off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  