-- Husch Blackwell, Clifford Chance, Jones: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-06-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/husch-blackwell-clifford-chance-jones-business-of-law.html
Husch Blackwell LLP, a 543-lawyer
firm, merged with 65-attorney Brown McCarroll LLP on June 18,
giving it new outposts in  Texas , including offices in Austin,
Dallas and Houston.  “As early as our very first meeting with representatives
from Brown McCarroll, we saw that culturally, strategically and
geographically, the combination of our two firms was a
significant opportunity,”  Greg Smith , the chief executive
officer and managing partner of Husch Blackwell, said in a
statement. “Their industry strength in health care, real estate
and energy aligns perfectly with three of our strongest
strategic industry groups.”  The combined firms, to remain known as Husch Blackwell,
have lawyers at 16 cities in the U.S. and in  London . Based on
2012 revenue reported this year in the American Lawyer, the
combined firms would have had an annual revenue of $319 million,
putting them at number 94 on the magazine’s list of highest
revenue-generating firms, according to Husch Blackwell.  Brown McCarroll, founded in 1938, focuses on energy,
health-care and real estate matters. Among its clients are
Community Health Systems Inc., Covenant Management Systems LP
and Wells Fargo & Co.  “We’ve been approached several times with offers to
combine with other national firms, and Husch Blackwell was the
match we’ve been waiting for,” Adam Hauser, managing partner of
Brown McCarroll, said in a statement.  Husch Blackwell was created after two 2008 mergers. One was
between St. Louis-based Husch & Eppenberger and  Kansas City ,
Missouri-based Blackwell Sanders. The second was with Chicago-based Welsh & Katz. The firm’s key clients include Algonquin
Power Co., Monsanto Co. and Express Scripts Inc.  Moves  Anderson Kill Adds Three Litigators in New York  Litigator David Graff, along with two associates, is
joining Anderson Kill & Olick PC as a shareholder in  New York 
from Windels Marx Lane & Mittendorf LLP.  Graff, who at 31 is Anderson Kill’s youngest shareholder,
joined the corporate and commercial litigation group, where he
will work on commercial disputes including breach of contract,
fraud, fraudulent conveyances, securities and employment, the
firm said.  Among his notable representations was a case on behalf of
investors in ZST Digital Networks Inc., which voluntarily
delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market, causing its stock to
drop, according to the Wall Street Journal. The move, called
“going dark,” is seen as a way to allow some companies to go
private cheaply, the newspaper said.  In the ZST case, a Delaware judge granted Graff’s client a
 put option  for his shares as part of a contempt order against
the Chinese company over its failure to produce books and
records, resulting in a $32 million judgment, Anderson Kill said
in the statement.  Graff and the two lawyers who work with him are “an
exceptional litigation team, always ready to think outside the
box and act swiftly to secure their clients’ interests,” Larry Kill, the chairman of Anderson Kill’s corporate and commercial
litigation group, said in a statement.  Anderson Kill has lawyers at seven U.S. offices.  Mintz Levin Hires Ex-ITC Attorney Shah in Washington  Aarti Shah, the former senior investigative attorney at the
U.S. International Trade Commission, joined Mintz, Levin, Cohn,
Ferris, Glovsky & Popeo PC as a member in the firm’s
intellectual property practice in  Washington .  Shah spent almost five years in the ITC’s Office of Unfair
Import Investigations, where she represented the U.S. as lead
government counsel in matters involving  trade secrets ,
trademarks, and electrical, computer, mechanical and chemical
patents, the firm said in a statement.  She was lead government counsel in a patent-infringement
trial between Apple Inc. and Eastman Kodak Co. involving digital
camera memory storage and power management, the firm said.  “Mintz Levin has a robust practice representing clients in
high-stakes matters before the U.S. International Trade
Commission,” Ivor R. Elrifi, co-chairman of the firm’s
intellectual property practice, said in a statement. “Having
served in a senior role at the ITC for several years, Aarti
brings an extensive background and experience handling a range
of complex matters.”  Mintz Levin has 500 lawyers in eight offices in the U.S.
and London.  Clifford Chance Adds Ashley Prebble to London Insurance Group  Clifford Chance  LLP said that Ashley Prebble will join
the firm’s corporate insurance practice in London. He was a
corporate insurance partner at  Norton Rose  Fulbright with
particular expertise in both the Lloyd’s and London market and
general insurance, the firm said.  Prebble specializes in corporate and regulatory insurance
work including initial public offerings, mergers and
acquisitions, Part VII transfers, distribution agreements and
regulatory matters, the firm said.  At Norton Rose, Prebble advised on the Part VII transfer of
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s Churchill, Direct Line and
NIG businesses into UK Insurance Ltd.; the 135 million pound
($209 million) sale of HSBC Insurance Brokers to Marsh &
McLennan Cos.; and Admiral Group Plc’s 711 million pound IPO,
among other matters.  “Ashley joins us at a key time for the  insurance industry ,
which faces unprecedented challenges and uncertainty due to
market and regulatory pressures,” Katherine Coates, head of the
corporate insurance practice at Clifford Chance, said in a
statement.  Clifford Chance has 3,400 legal advisers in 35 offices in
25 countries.  Jones Day Adds Johan Kleyn as Partner in Amsterdam  Jones Day  hired Johan Kleyn as a mergers-and-acquisitions
partner in its Amsterdam Office. He was previously with Allen &
Overy LLP. Two additional lawyers join him, one in global
disputes and one in mergers and acquisitions.  Kleyn will focus on corporate matters with an emphasis on
takeovers, litigation and boardroom counseling, the firm said.  Jones Day has 40 offices worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 