-- Usmanov Says Arsenal Is Good Investment, Not Selling His Shares
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a ,   R y a n   C h i l c o t e   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-06-20T13:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/usmanov-says-arsenal-is-good-investment-not-selling-his-shares.html
Russian billionaire  Alisher Usmanov 
said he plans to retain his almost 30 percent stake in London’s
Arsenal soccer club because it’s a good investment.  “Why do I need to change my status, which gives me major
benefits, from the investment side and my enjoyment of the
club,” he said in interview today with Bloomberg in Saint
Petersburg. “I enjoy the games.”  Stan Kroenke , an American who also owns the  National
Football League ’s St. Louis Rams, took control of the north
London club in 2011 after acquiring stakes owned by two former
board members. The American hasn’t put Usmanov nor his business
partner Farhad Moshiri, the club’s second biggest investors, on
the board.  Usmanov has criticized Kroenke for not spending money on
players and allowing captains Cesc Fabregas and  Robin van Persie 
to leave in recent years. The billionaire said he wouldn’t
dictate strategy at Arsenal should he be able to take control.  “I can’t dictate,”  he said. Even “if I had the
possibility, it’s not my style.”  The Daily Mirror today said that Arsenal will make Real
Madrid’s Gonzalo Higuain its record signing, agreeing to pay the
Argentinian 130,000 pounds ($201,000) a week. The Gunners still
have to complete a deal with the Spanish club, and may end up
paying about 22 million pounds for the player, the newspaper
said.  Arsenal has been reported to have 70 million pounds to
spend on new players.  Usmanov said Arsenal’s spending is “good
news if it happens. I’m happy if it occurs.”  Usmanov said coach “Arsene  Wenger is the last great coach
of last decade together with  Alex Ferguson .”  Still, Wenger “must” win a trophy this year, he said.  Arsenal, a 13-time English soccer champion, finished in
fourth place in Premier League, a place behind Russian
billionaire  Roman Abramovich ’s Chelsea.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Chilcote in London at 
 rchilcote@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  