-- Velarde Says Peru Ready to Sell Dollars to Stem Sol Decline
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-06-20T21:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/velarde-says-peru-ready-to-sell-dollars-to-stem-sol-decline.html
Peru ’s central bank is ready to sell
dollars in the local market should the pace of the sol’s decline
worsen, bank President Julio Velarde said.  The central bank can also purchase sol bonds if higher
yields “contaminate” domestic lending rates, though policy
makers don’t expect that to happen, Velarde told reporters in
Lima today.  Peru’s sol dropped 1.7 percent today to its lowest since
May 2011 and yields on benchmark bonds surged after the  Federal
Reserve  said yesterday it may start easing a stimulus program
that has kept U.S. yields low and buoyed emerging-market assets.
The sol weakened less than the Colombian and Chilean peso as
investors know the central bank is ready to sell dollars if
there’s “too much nervousness” in the market, Velarde said.
The Colombian peso slid 2.2 percent, while the Chilean peso
dropped 2.8 percent.  “If there is a panic situation or a very strong
appreciation in the dollar, obviously we would not only sell re-adjustable certificates of deposit but also sell in the  spot
market ,” Velarde said. “Why haven’t we done it, it’s because
we haven’t seen that sense of panic.”  Peru’s central bank doesn’t expect the jump in yields on
the country bonds to push up the cost of credit locally or merit
intervention.  The yield on Peru’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2020 rose 53 basis points, or 0.53 percentage
point, to 5.48 percent today, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the highest since March 27, 2012.  Peru’s pension fund managers may purchase bonds “if they
see attractive opportunities,” Velarde said. “The government
doesn’t have a pressing need to go the market so it doesn’t have
to worry about these rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 