-- Egypt Violence Builds After Mursi Names Governors
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-06-20T13:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/violence-builds-in-egypt-over-mursi-naming-islamist-governors.html
Employees of an Egyptian tourism trade 
group threatened to resign in protest amid renewed clashes in parts 
of the country today over President Mohamed Mursi's latest 
appointment of Islamists to key positions.  Discontent with Mursi, who marks a year in power at the end
of the month, is building up as critics plan protests on June 30
to call for early elections. They accuse him of failing to
revive the economy while putting the interests of his Muslim
Brotherhood allies ahead of the nation’s good.  Mursi’s appointment of eight Islamists as provincial
governors touched off a wave of protests, with violence erupting
earlier this week in some provinces. Tourism Minister Hisham Zaazou resigned because one of the new governors belongs to a
group linked to a deadly attack on a main tourist site.  “Mursi has been taking unilateral decisions that are
shocking for the Egyptian people since he took office,” Emad
Gad, deputy director of Al-Ahram Center for Political and
Strategic Studies in Cairo and a former lawmaker, said by phone.
“These decisions have been fueling confrontations between his
supporters and opponents.”  In Gharbiya province today, opposition groups surrounded a
local state council office, denying the new governor access, the
state-run Ahram Gate website reported.  Doctrine of Violence  Mursi supporters and opponents battled overnight in the
Nile Delta city of Mansoura in Daqahliya province, while at
least 25 were hurt in fighting in Kafr El-Sheik province,
according to Ahram Gate.  The unrest is a result of the opposition that “adopts
violence as their doctrine, having failed to win people’s
confidence at the ballot box,” the Freedom and Justice Party,
the Brotherhood’s political arm, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  The appointment of Adel El-Khayat, a member of the onetime
militant group Al-Gamaa Al-Islamiya, as governor of Luxor has
generated the most uproar. The group claimed it carried out a
1997 attack on a famed Luxor temple that killed 58 foreigners
and four Egyptians. It has since renounced violence.  The appointment could mean “the death of the  tourism
industry  in  Egypt ,” the Egyptian Tourism Federation trade group
said in a half-page advertisement in the Al-Ahram newspaper
today. Its 130 employees threatened to resign over the
appointments, spokesman Khaled El-Manawi was quoted as telling
the Al-Shorouk newspaper.  Protests and sporadic violence have persisted in Egypt more
than two years after the uprising that toppled  Hosni Mubarak ,
deterring investors as well as tourists and complicating the
task of reviving an economy growing at its slowest pace in two
decades.  A petition drive organized by the Tamarod or “Rebel”
campaign has collected several million signatures calling for
Mursi’s ouster, according to the group. Mursi’s supporters are
planning demonstrations tomorrow to back the president.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  