-- Virginia Lawyer Gets 15 Years for SBA Loan Fraud
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-06-20T21:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/virginia-lawyer-gets-15-years-for-sba-loan-fraud.html
A Virginia lawyer was sentenced to
15 years and eight months in prison for his role in a scheme
that resulted in more than $100 million in losses on loans
backed by the  U.S. Small Business Administration .  Joon Park, 43, of Falls Church, was sentenced today in
federal court in Baltimore. He admitted that from 2003 to
October 2011, he and his co-conspirators submitted SBA loan
applications with fraudulent documents including counterfeit
cashier’s checks and falsified bank statements and tax returns,
U.S. Attorney Rod Rosenstein of Maryland said today in a
statement.  The phony paperwork was used to persuade SBA officials to
approve loans under a program that requires business owners to
invest specified amounts of their own money. Taxpayers, through
the SBA, guaranteed 75 percent to 90 percent of each loan, with
lenders on the hook for the rest, according to Rosenstein.  “When borrowers and brokers submit false information and
fraudulent documents, the underwriting process is defeated and
the taxpayers bear the loss,” Rosenstein said.  Park was the leader of the conspiracy, along with his
brother, according to the statement. The scheme operated through
Park’s brokerage, Jade Capital & Investments LLC of Woodbridge,
Virginia. His brother, Loren Park, is still at large and
believed to be in South Korea, according to Marcia Murphy, a
spokeswoman for Rosenstein.  Park arranged for 124 fraudulent loans with 17 commercial
lenders ranging from $100,000 to $14.5 million, according to a
superseding indictment returned March 7 by a federal grand jury.  Four other participants in the scheme have already been
sentenced to prison and a fifth conspirator has pleaded guilty
and is awaiting sentencing.  The case is U.S. v. Park, 11-cr-00600, U.S. District Court,
District of  Maryland  (Baltimore).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  