-- Will Genes Ruling Prevent the Next Genentech?
-- B y   S a l l y   S m i t h   H u g h e s
-- 2013-06-20T19:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/will-genes-ruling-prevent-the-next-genentech-.html
By ruling last week to restrict the
ability of companies to own human genetic sequences, the Supreme
Court may have also called into question thousands of
biotechnology, agricultural and drug patents.  The court’s decision that naturally occurring genes can’t
be patented, though so-called synthetic ones can, may have
another unintended consequence: It could undermine a precious
relationship between academic scientists and the private sector
by making businesses less eager to fund cutting-edge DNA
research. Such ties, which have been a vital source of support
for innovation in genetic engineering, rely on a model that was
first developed by the iconic biotechnology company Genentech
Inc. in 1976.  Genentech -- which developed Herceptin and Avastin -- was a
pioneer of commercial biotechnology in the 1980s, when for-profit research was largely confined to Big Pharma. The company
was founded in South San Francisco by Robert Swanson, a venture
capitalist, and Herbert Boyer, a professor of microbiology at
the University of  California , San Francisco.  Recombinant DNA  Three years earlier, Boyer and Stanford professor Stanley N. Cohen had invented a technique for joining pieces of DNA in a
test tube, copying it in living cells and producing the DNA code
as a protein. Recombinant DNA, as it came to be called, quickly
became a universal technique of genetic engineering.  Boyer immediately realized that the method could be used in
bacteria to produce large quantities of pharmaceuticals at low
cost. In the early 1970s, however, academic biologists rarely
had direct ties with industry, and universities, with few
exceptions, didn’t encourage faculty members to patent or engage
in commercial activities. Boyer needed a business-savvy guide.  Swanson was just the man. He had been lured to the San
Francisco Bay area by investment opportunities in Silicon
Valley, and became a junior partner at the newly formed venture-capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers. He then decided
to start a company of his own. He cold-called Boyer and offered
to go into business with him. Swanson then managed to convince
his former employer that he was on to a highly profitable new
way to make drugs. The firm provided a modest $100,000 --
venture capital’s first stake in recombinant DNA technology.  In 1976, a partnership was formed between the  University of
California , which provided Boyer and his laboratory, and
 Genentech , which provided the funding. The company benefited
from Boyer’s pioneering advances in recombinant DNA research,
along with the service of two postdoctoral students and access
to rare organisms and enzymes that weren’t available
commercially.  In 1977, Boyer demonstrated for the first time that
recombinant DNA could be programmed to make specific proteins in
bacteria and Genentech became a leader in the emerging field of
genetic engineering.  Yet Boyer’s dual status as faculty member and company co-founder and adviser unnerved some of his university colleagues,
who said his ties to industry violated the conventions of
academic biology (even though it was Swanson, as chief executive
officer, who handled the company’s day-to-day business).  After the successful proof-of-principle experiment,
Genentech moved on to make recombinant human insulin (1978) and
recombinant human growth hormone (1979).  Patentable Matter  In June 1980, the Supreme Court gave the industry a boost
in  Diamond v. Chakrabarty , which declared that “anything under
the sun made by man is patentable subject matter.” It created
the possibility of private ownership of all kinds of living
things and their components. It is unclear whether the court’s
ruling last week will rein in Diamond v. Chakrabarty’s
indefinite scope.  That year, Tom Perkins, chairman of Genentech’s executive
board, began to push for an initial public offering. While
Swanson argued that an IPO was premature because Genentech had
no products on the market and only the slimmest profit margin,
Perkins convinced the board that “all the planets were lined
up.”  On Oct. 14, 1980, Genentech offered 1.1 million shares for
sale. A minute after the opening bell, the price rocketed from
$35 to $80 -- the fastest gain in Wall Street history at the
time. The  share price  closed at $71, and Genentech had raised
more than $36 million. Swanson and Boyer became instant
multimillionaires, each reaping a one-day profit of almost $70
million. The company was acquired by  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  in 2009
for about $47 billion.  Genentech’s public offering signaled the arrival of a new
way of making money from the life sciences that has made the
U.S. a global leader. It would be a shame if the high court
inadvertently made such invaluable collaboration between
scientists and business more risky and rare.  ( Sally Smith Hughes  is a historian of science at the
 Bancroft Library  at the University of California, Berkeley. She
is the author of “Genentech: The Beginnings of Biotech” and
“The Virus: A History of the Concept.”)  Read more from  Echoes  online.  To contact the writer of this post:
Sally Smith Hughes at  shughes@library.berkeley.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  