-- Woman Accused of Sending Obama Ricin Letter Seeks Evaluat
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-06-20T16:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/woman-accused-of-sending-obama-ricin-letter-seeks-evaluat.html
A former actress from  Texas  accused
of sending ricin-laced letters to President  Barack Obama  and
trying to frame her husband for it will seek psychiatric
evaluation instead of release on bond, according to court
papers.  Shannon Guess Richardson, 35, will ask to be transferred to
a federal medical facility instead of released from jail on bond
at a hearing set for today in federal court in Texarkana, Texas,
according to a filing by her court-appointed lawyer, Tonda
Curry.  Based on mental-status exams conducted since her arrest,
Richardson should “undergo a thorough evaluation for a mental
disease or defect affecting her competence,” Curry said today
in a court filing.  Richardson has been in custody since June 7, when federal
agents arrested her on charges of mailing threatening
communications to Obama,  New York  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and an
anti-gun organization affiliated with Bloomberg. The letters
were intercepted before they reached the intended recipients.  The case against Richardson is the third in less than two
months involving letters with ricin sent to elected officials,
including Obama.  Failed Polygraph  Richardson, who is five months pregnant and played a small
role in the TV series “The Walking Dead,” initially approached
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  claiming her husband wanted
to poison her. She failed a polygraph exam when she was
questioned a second time after agents searched her home and the
husband’s car, according to the FBI. She then said her husband
coerced her into mailing the letters.  “It’s still the government’s theory that she did this to
set up or frame her husband,” Curry said yesterday in a phone
interview. “Obviously, we disagree with that theory.”  Richardson is charged only with sending threatening
communications,  meaning “the words on paper, not the powdery
or oily substance” found on the letters, Curry said. “We will
not be admitting anything about the ricin –- ordering the beans,
making the ricin, anything like that. She’s admitted to the
government she was the one who took the letters to the post
office.”  At today’s hearing before a federal magistrate in
Texarkana, Curry said she’ll present a letter from medical
professionals who’ve examined the Richardson as evidence she
needs further evaluation. Prosecutors don’t oppose the request,
according to Curry’s filing.  The mayor of New York is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News .  The case is U.S. v. Richardson, 5:13-mj-00014, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Texas (Texarkana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  