-- Yuan Forwards Drop Most Since October 2011 on Fed, China Outlook
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-06-20T07:26:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/yuan-forwards-drop-most-since-october-2011-on-fed-china-outlook.html
Yuan  forwards fell the most since
October 2011 after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said
the central bank may reduce monetary stimulus that helped spur
fund inflows to emerging-market assets.  Twelve-month contracts dropped to a three-month low on
signs manufacturing is shrinking at a faster pace in June, a
survey released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
showed. Bernanke said yesterday the Fed could taper its $85
billion of monthly bond purchases this year and end the program
in 2014 if the U.S. economy achieves sustainable growth.  “With the Fed tapering prospect and poor China data, there
is some unwinding in Asian currencies including the yuan,” said
Patrick Cheng, a Hong Kong-based foreign-exchange analyst at
Haitong International Securities Co. “There’s also expectations
more funds will leave  emerging markets .”  Non-deliverable forwards due in a year declined 0.5 percent
to 6.3078 as of 3:19 p.m. in Hong Kong, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest drop since Oct. 13,
2011. The  discount  to the spot rate was 2.9 percent, the deepest
since February 2009.  The preliminary reading of 48.3 for a Purchasing Managers
Index for June, compares with the 49.1 median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 15 economists, HSBC and Markit
Economics data showed. May’s final reading of 49.2 was the first
one below 50 since October, indicating a contraction.  Yuan positions  at China’s financial institutions
accumulated from sales of foreign exchange, an indication of
capital inflows, rose 66.9 billion yuan ($10.9 billion) in May,
the central bank reported June 14. That’s the smallest gain
since November.  Slower Inflows  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major trading partners, rose 0.3 percent,
taking a two-day gain to 1.3 percent, the biggest since May 10.  The People’s Bank of  China  set the yuan’s  reference rate 
0.03 percent weaker at 6.1698 per dollar today, the lowest level
since June 6. The onshore spot rate is allowed to diverge from
the fixing by a maximum 1 percent.  “Huge U.S. dollar liquidity infusions that have been
boosting emerging-market assets are likely to begin to slow and
then to end, perhaps sooner than anticipated,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior economist and strategist at Credit Agricole
CIB in Hong Kong, said in a research note today.  China’s benchmark money-market rates climbed to records as
the central bank refrained from using reverse-repurchase
agreements to address a cash crunch. Overnight yuan interbank
rates in Hong Kong climbed to 6.5 percent today, compared with
2.75 percent on June 14, according to HSBC  quotes  published on
the Treasury Markets Association website.  Short Term  “Concerns about outflows will continue to weigh on the
yuan,” said Roy Teo, a currency strategist at ABN Amro Bank NV
in Singapore. “It’s more of a short-term market reaction”
because a stronger U.S. economy is positive for global growth,
and Asia will continue to benefit, he added.  In the onshore spot market in  Shanghai , the yuan was little
changed at 6.1260 per dollar, according to China Foreign
Exchange Trade System prices. It has strengthened 1.7 percent
this year, the best performer among Asia’s 11 most-traded
currencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In Hong
Kong’s offshore market, the yuan held at 6.1275.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, increased four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.82 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  