-- Zijin Eyes Assets Including Barrick Australia Mines on Gold Drop
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-20T06:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-20/zijin-eyes-assets-including-barrick-australia-mines-on-gold-drop.html
Zijin Mining Group Co. (2899) , China’s
biggest gold miner by market value, is considering a bid for the
Australian assets of  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , said Lan Fusheng, vice
chairman in charge of overseas investment.  “The recent slump in gold prices made it an excellent
opportunity for Zijin to go out and invest overseas,” Lan said
today in a interview at a conference in Zhaoyuan, China. “We
are looking at a number of projects now, including the three
Australian projects that Barrick has put up for sale.”  Gold slumped 20 percent this year, tumbling into a  bear
market  in April, and is headed for its first annual decline
since 2000. Zijin bought  Norton Gold Fields Ltd. (NGF)  last year to
add assets in Australia, after saying in 2011 it aimed to spend
as much as 10 billion  yuan  ($1.6 billion) a year on acquisitions
and expanding mines.  “The slump in gold prices this year caught everybody by
surprise,” Lan said. “There was similar opportunity in 2009
when valuations of overseas gold assets dropped sharply but
unfortunately we weren’t able to seize it.”  Barrick, the biggest miner of the metal by sales, is
considering shrinking in size as the company focuses on returns
over production volumes, Chief Executive Officer Jamie Sokalsky
said last month. Barrick is working with Bank of America Corp.
and UBS AG on a possible sale of three mines in Australia, two
people with knowledge of the matter said in April.  Zijin is still weighing its options and hasn’t made an
official offer yet as it is concerned about the quality of
Barrick’s Australian mines and high cost of production in the
country, Lan said.  Gold for immediate delivery fell 0.6 percent to $1,343.06
an ounce at 1:25 p.m. in  Singapore .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  