-- A Good-Neighbor Policy for Peace in the South China Sea
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-12T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/a-good-neighbor-policy-for-peace-in-the-south-china-sea.html
What do you call an ocean that sits
atop more than  10 billion barrels  of recoverable oil and 100
trillion cubic feet of natural gas, provides transit for $5.3
trillion worth of shipborne trade every year, and is bordered by
a half-dozen nations with competing maritime and territorial
 claims ? If you’re a geographer, the South  China  Sea.  If you’re a geostrategist, however, it’s a  powder keg  --and
one that has been heating up dangerously over the past year.
Defusing it peacefully will be a test not just of Chinese
behavior, but also of the ability of China and the U.S. to
accommodate each other’s legitimate interests and maintain the
stability on which  Asia ’s economic dynamism depends.  This month, China and the U.S. traded dueling statements
over a buildup of regional tensions. China said that U.S.
 criticism  of its decision to establish a military garrison
covering disputed areas of the South China Sea was “a seriously
wrong signal.” That followed a tense stare-down this spring and
summer involving armed vessels of the  Philippines , a U.S. treaty
ally, and China over one of the hundreds of reefs, shoals and
islands that dot the sea.  Over the past three years, more than 20 incidents --whether
ship collisions, arrests of fishermen or the cutting of cables -
- have taken place between Chinese vessels and those of  Vietnam ,
the Philippines and other countries with claims to the sea’s
riches. With increased prospecting and drilling for the area’s
abundant oil and natural gas resources, the tension promises to
intensify.  China’s expansive and imprecise claims to most of the
waters, islands and natural resources of the entire  South China
Sea  -- which are echoed by  Taiwan , the other “one China” --
rest on a mixture of hoary historical accounts and international
law. The other claimants -- Brunei,  Malaysia , the Philippines
and Vietnam -- all base their cases on the  United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea , to which China is also a party.  Although the Philippines has suggested putting its
competing claims before an international tribunal as allowed for
in the convention, China has refused to do so, insisting that
any resolution should come through talks between the two nations.
The U.S., which is pushing for a comprehensive regional solution,
has not taken a position on sovereignty issues in the South
China Sea, but opposes “the use or threat of force by any
claimant” and has declared that “freedom of navigation, and
unimpeded lawful commerce in the South China Sea” are “a
national interest.”  How to move ahead?  One of the best things the U.S. could do would be to ratify
the Law of the Sea, which safeguards U.S. interests in
navigation and commerce and provides a strong multilateral
framework for resolving such sovereignty disputes. Some Chinese
have been quick to point out the hypocrisy of the U.S. invoking
a treaty that it has so far failed to accept. Indeed, if
Chairman Mao were alive today, he would doubtless want to shake
the hands of the 34 Republican senators who said this summer
that they will vote against it. In  rejecting  multilateralism,
they are doing exactly what China wants.  In 2002, China and the  Association of Southeast Asian
Nations  agreed to devise a code of conduct in the South China
Sea for peacefully addressing disagreements. Both sides need to
take up that cause, which has seen little progress. In addition,
the U.S. and China can build up their ability to avert a crisis
by, for example, creating a hot line dedicated to managing
maritime emergencies. They can also reduce tensions by promoting
joint naval exercises in areas such as counterpiracy and
disaster relief.  This fall, the U.S. will elect a new president, and China
will usher in a new slate of top leaders. In that supercharged
political atmosphere, tough talk by either side will play to
each side’s worst instincts. To keep things calm, China will
need to temper its bluster over the South China Sea and its
 coercive economic diplomacy , and the U.S. will need to err on
the side of even-handedness. While the State Department was
right to issue its Aug. 3 statement deploring the rise of
tensions, it aggravated the situation by needlessly singling out
Chinese actions. In its standoff with China, for example, the
Philippines sent a navy warship to detain Chinese fishermen --an
escalation that the Chinese have so far avoided by using
maritime survey and patrol vessels, rather than the navy.  The “rebalancing” of U.S. naval forces toward Asia is a
welcome development. There is a danger, though, that it could
end up precipitating the tensions and conflicts that it seeks to
deter, especially if it emboldens countries such as Vietnam and
the Philippines to overplay their hands. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  has so far deftly navigated the South China Sea.
Let’s hope she remembers -- as the Chinese captain who just ran
his frigate  aground  off the Philippines has learned -- that
these are perilous waters.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on comparing Ryan’s and Obama’s
 budget ideas ; Peter R. Orszag on a  budget wonk’s  view of Ryan;
 Ramesh Ponnuru  on Romney’s  transformative running mate  choice;
 Albert R. Hunt  on  Ryan’s congressional mentor ; William D. Cohan
on  Bain Capital’s corporate wreckage ;  Rick Burton  on how the  U.S.
tried to appease  the  International Olympic Committee ; Adam
Kirsch on  what Henry Adams would say  about  Sheldon Adelson . Find
more about Romney’s vice-presidential pick on  the Ticker blog .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 