-- Alaska Governor Asks Salazar to Expedite Point Thomson Decision
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2012-08-12T21:31:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/alaska-governor-asks-salazar-to-expedite-point-thomson-decision.html
Alaska Governor Sean Parnell asked
U.S. Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  to help expedite an Army
Corps of Engineers decision on permits to develop the state’s
Point Thomson oil and gas field after it was delayed.  The decision was delayed to as late as December from
September, Parnell said in an Aug. 11  letter  to Salazar, which
was e-mailed yesterday, Sharon Leighow, an Anchorage-based
spokeswoman for the governor, said in an e-mailed statement.  Point Thomson includes 38 leases on roughly 93,000 acres of
land about 60 miles east of Prudhoe Bay on Alaska’s North Slope.
It’s estimated to hold as much as 8 trillion cubic feet of
natural gas and hundreds of millions of barrels of gas liquids
and oil, according to Alaska’s Department of Natural Resources.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  resolved a
lawsuit on March 30 that they filed against Alaska in 2006 after
the state revoked their leases for failing to submit an
acceptable development plan.  Under the settlement, a facility is being designed to
produce 200 million cubic feet of gas a day and 10,000 barrels
of condensate a day, according to the March agreement filed in
state court in Anchorage. The facility is scheduled for
completion in 2016, according to the agreement. A liquid
hydrocarbon pipeline that can move 70,000 barrels a day is also
being designed.  Permitting delays “would jeopardize critical energy
production from the North Slope to boost the flow of oil through
the Trans  Alaska  Pipeline System and the creation of thousands
of jobs that our country so desperately needs,” Parnell said in
the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  