-- Manchester City Beats Chelsea 3-2 in Soccer’s Community Shield
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-08-12T15:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/manchester-city-beats-chelsea-3-2-in-soccer-s-community-shield.html
Manchester City beat 10-man Chelsea
3-2 in today’s Community Shield, the curtain-raiser to English
soccer’s Premier League season.  Chelsea led league champion City at halftime on a goal from
 Fernando Torres  but had defender Branislav Ivanovic red-carded
before the interval. Yaya Toure,  Carlos Tevez  and Samir Nasri
then scored for City, with Ryan Bertrand getting Chelsea’s
second goal at Villa Park in Birmingham.  “It was a great day for the club again,” City captain
 Vincent Kompany  told the British Broadcasting Corp. “It doesn’t
matter what the trophy is, we’ll celebrate it.”  The Community Shield is contested by the winners of the
previous season’s Premier League and the F.A. Cup and raises
money for charities and community groups. City claimed a first
league title in 44 years, while Chelsea secured the F.A. Cup for
a fourth time in six seasons.  City striker Tevez had his team’s first effort on target
after three minutes, curling a free kick around the wall and
forcing  Petr Cech  into a save.  Cech was forced into another stop when a corner from
Aleksandar Kolarov could have dipped below the crossbar as City
provided most of the attacking threat in the early stages.  Chelsea, giving a debut to Belgium international Eden Hazard, began to settle and took the lead five minutes before
halftime when Torres slipped the ball past the advancing Costel
Pantilimon.  Red Card  Ivanovic was dismissed two minutes later when he slid into
Kolarov, catching the fullback on his shin.  City took eight minutes of the second half to tie the
match, Toure firing a shot through a crowd of players and past
Cech.  Tevez fired into the top corner of the net from the edge of
the area six minutes later, and Nasri stabbed in from a Kolarov
cross on 65 minutes.  Substitute Bertrand reacted quickest when Pantilimon
spilled a shot from  Daniel Sturridge  to score for Chelsea with
10 minutes remaining.  Both teams continued to push forward, with City spurning
two late chances as the game headed into injury time. First,
 David Silva  was unable to get a strong enough connection on a
shot, before  Sergio Aguero  put an effort wide from close range.  Wembley Stadium, the usual venue for the Community Shield,
staged the Olympic final yesterday, when Mexico beat Brazil 2-1.  City opens the defense of its league title at home to newly
promoted Southampton on Aug. 19, with Chelsea at Wigan on the
same day.  “It will be a tough league this season because you could
see the quality that Chelsea have,” Kompany said. “It doesn’t
matter if we are favorites, if we can improve on last season
I’ll be very happy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 