-- Attack Lines Sharpen in U.S. Presidential Election Campaign
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-08-12T17:51:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/attack-lines-sharpen-in-u-s-presidential-election-campaign.html
Republicans and Democrats used the
Sunday talk shows to sharpen their attacks following the
selection by Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  of
Wisconsin Representative  Paul Ryan  as his running mate.  Ryan is “a right-wing ideologue” who wants to “lavish”
the wealthy with tax cuts while cutting spending on programs
that help the middle class, students and senior citizens,  David Axelrod , a campaign strategist for President  Barack Obama , said
on ABC’s “This Week” program.  “He wants trillions of dollars of more budget-busting tax
cuts skewed to the wealthy,” Axelrod said during an appearance
on the NBC’s “Meet the Press” program. “This is a
prescription for economic catastrophe.”  Republicans countered that Romney showed leadership and
courage by picking Ryan, who as chairman of the House Budget
Committee has pushed efforts to scale back the size of
government through spending reductions and tax cuts. He is most
identified with his proposal to replace Medicare the health-
insurance program for the elderly, with a plan offering seniors
a fixed amount of money for private insurance.  Ryan, 42, was an “extraordinarily exciting choice, because
you now have a national leader who is capable of talking in
detail with the American people about some very complicated
topics and that’s a very unusual moment in American history,”
former House Speaker and ex-Republican presidential candidate
 Newt Gingrich  said on CBS’s “Face the Nation.”  Big Things  Senator  John Thune , a South Dakota Republican, said on
CNN’s “ State of the Union ” that Ryan’s selection shows Romney
is “very serious about doing big things for this country.”
Ryan represents “everything conservatives had hoped for,”
Thune said.  Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , the Republican who lost to
Democrat Barack Obama in the 2008 presidential election, said
Ryan is a “bold choice” for vice president.  Ryan is “good matchup” because of his “intimate
knowledge” of the budget, McCain said on “Fox News Sunday.”  “This is a substance-driven campaign versus a fear-and-
smear campaign,”  Ed Gillespie , a senior adviser to Romney, said
on CNN.  Democrats said they welcomed the debate, and portrayed a
Ryan-authored budget plan as benefitting the wealthy with tax
cuts while cutting back programs that help the middle class.  Debate Sharpened  “The debate has sharpened,”  Chris Van Hollen , a Maryland
Democrat who serves on the Budget Committee, said on CNN.  Appearing on “Fox News Sunday,” Florida Democratic
Representative  Debbie Wasserman Schultz , who also heads the
 Democratic National Committee , said Ryan is an “extremist”
with “seriously flawed ideas on the economy.”  Much of debate centered on Ryan’s proposed overhaul of
Medicare.  His plan for changing Medicare into a voucher program would
“shed the safety net” that has protected seniors for more than
50 years, Wasserman Schultz said.  Ryan’s proposal to allow private insurers to compete with
Medicare would put the government program in a “death spiral,”
by driving up its costs, Axelrod said on CNN. “Ultimately it’s
going to destroy the program,” he said.  “The president already has taken steps that add eight
years to the life of Medicare,” Axelrod said on the NBC
program. “There’s no doubt that we have to do more, but the
question is, are we going to do it in a way that preserves the
program?”  Ryan’s Leadership  Republicans said Ryan has shown leadership by proposing a
budget plan that would save Medicare over time.  “If any person in this entire debate has blood on their
hands with regard to Medicare, it’s President Obama,” Reince Priebus, chairman of the  Republican National Committee , said on
“Meet the Press.”  Asked whether Romney backs all of Ryan’s budget proposals,
Priebus said that while his party’s presumptive nominee
“appreciates and admires” the work that Ryan has done, he also
has his own ideas.  Ad Disavowal  Axelrod disavowed an ad run by Priorities USA Action, a
super-political action committee supporting Obama, that attacks
Romney for actions by Bain Capital LLC, the Boston-based
private-equity firm that the former Massachusetts governor once
headed.  The ad links the closing of a Bain-owned plant to the loss
of a steelworker’s health insurance and the death of his wife.  “I don’t think  Governor Romney  can be blamed for that
woman’s death,” Axelrod said on the “ABC This Week” program.
“What he can be blamed for is taking that steel company to
bankruptcy, walking away with millions of dollars and leaving
workers without pensions, without the health insurance they were
promised.”  Former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty , who also sought the
Republican nomination and was a contender for the running-mate
spot, said Obama should personally disavow the ad. “The
president himself should have the basic decency to say, you know
what, that ad’s out of bounds,” Pawlenty said on the ABC
program.  Axelrod criticized Romney for accusing Obama in an ad of
“taking the work requirement out of welfare.” Romney first
made the statement Aug. 7 during a campaign stop in suburban
 Chicago , referring to a memo issued in July by the  Department of
Health  and Human Services allowing states to apply for waivers
from certain parts of the Temporary Assistance for Needy
Families program.  Pawlenty said he and other governors sought flexibility in
the work requirement. He said Obama should clarify that he’s not
going to undermine the work requirement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  