-- Australia Broadband Operator Would Adapt to Change of Government
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-08-12T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/australia-broadband-says-plan-can-adapt-to-change-of-government.html
The Australian  national broadband
network ’s state-owned operator said it can change its A$37.9
billion ($40 billion) project should Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s Labor government lose power.  “It’s always possible to change direction, it’s possible
to stop things as they are running today,” NBN Co. Chief
Executive Officer Mike Quigley said in an interview on
Australian Broadcasting Corp. television yesterday. “Our job is
to provide as much commercial flexibility as we can” for the
company’s owner.  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition, on track to win
elections that must be held by November 2013, is vowing to cut
the project’s costs, which Gillard’s government last week said
had risen 3.9 percent, or about A$3 billion. Labor intends to
roll out the mainly fiber-optic network, or NBN, to 93 percent
of  Australia ’s population during the next decade, with the rest
served by wireless and satellite.  The opposition’s policy would save “upward of A$20
billion,” Shadow Communications and Broadband Minister  Malcolm Turnbull  said in an interview broadcast on Sky Television on Aug.
11.  While Labor’s plan is for broadband fiber to be connected
to every home, the coalition wants to install a fiber-to-the-
node model, in which broadband fiber is installed as much as a
kilometer from houses that are then connected to the network by
copper wire.  Privatization Plans  “We are not going to dismantle the NBN,” Turnbull said.
“We are going to complete the job of updating everybody’s
broadband to very fast speeds, but we’ll do so predominantly
using fiber-to-the-node, a much, much cheaper and faster-to-
deploy technology” than the government’s, he said.  A Liberal-National government would also privatize  NBN Co. ,
Turnbull said, while ruling out a sale to a retail
telecommunications provider, such as  Telstra Corp. (TLS)  Australia’s
biggest phone company is getting A$11 billion from the
government after agreeing to give up control of its copper wires
to make way for the new system.  “The sooner you could privatize it, the better,” Turnbull
said.  Telstra posted second-half profit on Aug. 9 that missed
analysts’ estimates as it spent more to add mobile phone
customers while winding down its former monopoly fixed-line
business. Shares of the Melbourne-based company, which reached a
three-and-half-year high on Aug. 6, slumped 7.6 percent in the
past three trading days on the Australian stock exchange.  Higher Costs  NBN is on course to begin or complete work on connecting
758,000 premises by the end of 2012, Communications Minister
Stephen Conroy said on Aug. 8 as he released the network’s
corporate plan for the next three years.  “This plan demonstrates the government is delivering on
its commitment to provide all Australians with fast, reliable,
affordable broadband,” he said.  The network will eventually generate a 7 percent return for
taxpayers, Conroy said. Capital costs now stand at $37.9 billion,
3.9 percent higher than a revised estimate, he said. The
original cost forecast, announced in April 2009, was A$43
billion.  “We are one year into a 10-year build on a 30-year
project,” Quigley said in the interview shown yesterday.
“Overall the project is running as well as you could expect.”  Beyond 2021, NBN Co. could “generate very large gross
margins because it’s a very big up-front  capital investment  but
the operating costs of the company are relatively low,” he said.  The network will provide fiber-optic access to about 3.5
million premises in the country by mid-2015, Gillard said on
March 29.  While a poll published Aug. 7 showed support for her Labor
government rose to the highest level in six months, Gillard is
still tracking toward defeat in next year’s elections. Labor’s
primary vote increased five points to 33 percent from two weeks
before, while support for Abbott’s coalition dropped one point
to 45 percent, the Newspoll for the Australian newspaper showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  