-- Bain’s ‘Creative Destruction’ Destroys Lives
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-08-12T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/bain-s-creative-destruction-destroys-lives.html
Is there any fairness in a system
where a group of people can borrow a bunch of money to buy a
company and pay themselves millions of dollars in dividends and
fees, while the company itself ends up bankrupt and its
employees lose their jobs, health insurance and pensions?  Can you imagine the owners then being celebrated in fancy
society while the unfortunate workers are left to fend for
themselves as the collateral damage of the system?  Welcome to  Mitt Romney ’s America. This is the true story of
how in October 1993 buyout firm Bain Capital LLC, which Romney
founded and ran from 1984 to (roughly) 1999, and its partners
bought a steel mill in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , from  Armco Steel
Corp. (AKS)  for $75 million, merged it with other steel companies,
loaded it with too much debt, paid themselves big dividends and
ran the company into the ground. Bain’s behavior was all
perfectly legal, of course, and many argue that this is an
essential part of the creative destruction that is capitalism
(except when there are huge bailouts, of course).  Lucky Few  In many ZIP codes around  Boston ,  Chicago ,  Los Angeles ,  New
York  and  San Francisco , Bain and its partners are celebrated and
admired. Many graduates of our finest colleges, universities and
graduate schools would almost kill to get a job at Bain, with
its elegant offices and promise of great wealth for the lucky
few. And now one of them may well end up in the White House.  But there’s a darker side to this fairy tale, and the Armco
deal is a perfect illustration. For its $8 million in cash --
largely taken from its outside investors -- Bain Capital
received a majority stake in the steel company, renamed  GS
Technologies Inc.  The minority investors were  GE Capital , a
division of  General Electric Co. (GE)  that provided the new company
with a line of credit;  Leggett & Platt Inc. (LEG) , a large customer of
the steel plant; and a group of former and existing managers.
The new company paid Bain an annual $900,000 fee for
“professional services,” a standard private-equity trick to
begin sucking fees out of an acquired company. Three Bain
executives, Bob White, Paul Edgerley and John O’Malley, went on
the board of the company. (White remains a close Romney adviser.)  In short order, Bain did to GS Technologies what it has
done to any number of other companies that it purchased with
other people’s money --  among them  American Pad & Paper and Dade
International, which both went bankrupt. In August 1994, 10
months after the sale was completed, GS Technologies issued $125
million of 12 percent senior notes. Some $55 million of the
proceeds went to repay existing debt, while $65 million went out
as a dividend to shareholders. Of the $65 million, Bain took
$36.1 million, more than four times its original investment.  In October 1995, Bain arranged for the company to merge
with Georgetown Steel, a steel-rod manufacturer in South
Carolina. As part of the acquisition, the merged company issued
another $125 million in senior notes and refinanced the existing
credit facility. The partners invested $30 million more of
equity in the merged company, with $16.5 million of that coming
from the dividend Bain had taken earlier.  Heavy Debt  The merged company, renamed GS Industries Inc., was to have
annual revenue of $941 million, net income of $13 million and
3,800 employees. It also had about $370 million in long-term
debt -- eight times its earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization -- and about $180 million of
additional long-term liabilities such as future health-care and
pension payments.  In the end, GSI didn’t work out as planned. For many
reasons -- tough competition from abroad, a high-cost structure,
too much debt related to the acquisitions, and the cost of the
dividends paid to Bain and GE Capital -- the company filed for
bankruptcy on Feb. 7, 2001. It closed the Kansas City plant and
fired 750 workers. Many of the employees’ benefits were
eliminated, including long-term health-care coverage, life
insurance and parts of pensions.  Asked what happened at GSI, a  Bain spokesman  told Reuters
in January 2012, “Over $100 million and many thousands of hours
were invested in GSI to upgrade its facilities and make the
company more competitive during a seven-year period when the
industry came under enormous pressure and 44 U.S. steel
companies went into bankruptcy.” After pointing out that
another steel company Bain owned, Steel Dynamics, is a
successful $6 billion business, the spokesman said Bain’s focus
“remains on building great companies and improving their
operations.”  The GSI debacle has been in the news lately because of a
campaign ad made by a group supporting President  Barack Obama .
It features Joe Soptic, who worked at the Kansas City plant for
28 years and lost his job when the company filed for bankruptcy.
Soptic lost a significant part of his monthly pension and his
health-care benefits. He eventually found a new job as a school
janitor paying him $24,000, about two-thirds less than what he
had been paid as a steelworker at GSI.  Wiped Out  Also part of Soptic’s story is his wife, Ranae. She was no
longer covered by her husband’s health-care plan. Then she got
sick with pneumonia. It was too late by the time she went to the
hospital: She had advanced  lung cancer  and died two weeks later.
Soptic wiped out his $12,000 of savings to pay the hospital
bills; the hospital wrote off the balance of the $18,000 he owed.  Romney supporters point out that this was years after the
bankruptcy and that Ranae Soptic had quit a job that provided
health insurance, which is true but irrelevant. If the old Armco
plant hadn’t been run into the ground and her husband had kept
his job, she would have had coverage. And the Soptics’ story is
a sidebar. The real point is how a man who wants to be “CEO of
America” left a trail of destroyed lives when he was only chief
executive officer of a single private-equity firm.  Romney is a very wealthy man, worth at least $250 million.
His partners, including White, are very wealthy, too. They got
rich at  Bain Capital  doing again and again and again the things
they did at GSI, involving hundreds of others companies and
thousands of other people. Not all worked out like GSI of course,
and some were big successes. But the inequity of it all just
seems unworthy of a great nation.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard Freres,
Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on comparing Ryan’s and Obama’s
 budget ideas  and on how to keep the  South China Sea  from blowing
up; Peter R. Orszag on a  budget wonk’s  view of Ryan;  Ramesh
Ponnuru  on Romney’s  transformative running mate  choice;  Albert R.
Hunt  on  Ryan’s congressional mentor ;  Rick Burton  on how the  U.S.
tried to appease  the  International Olympic Committee ; Adam
Kirsch on  what Henry Adams would say  about  Sheldon Adelson . Find
more about Romney’s vice-presidential pick on  the Ticker blog .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 