-- Barclays, UBS Charge Record Fees to Escape Unipol Stock Losses
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i ,   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-08-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/barclays-ubs-charge-record-fees-to-escape-unipol-stock-losses.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  are charging
two Italian insurers twice the average fee to manage 1.2 billion
euros ($1.5 billion) of stock sales as they seek to insulate
themselves from potential losses on the offerings.  The two banks are part of a group of underwriters led by
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  that are charging fees of at
least 4.5 percent on rights offers by  Fondiaria-SAI SpA (FSA)  and
Unipol Gruppo Finanziario SpA, company filings show. That’s more
than twice the 2.25 percent median fee for European rights
offers since 2010, data compiled by New York-based research firm
Freeman & Co. show.  Fondiaria is merging with Unipol to bolster capital after
regulators found the Turin-based insurer failed solvency
requirements. The banks, which agreed to guarantee the stock as
part of the rescue plan, have found buyers for less than half of
what they underwrote, leaving them at risk of losses that won’t
be covered by the 55 million euros in fees they will earn. The
offerings may worsen the decline in the banks’ profit from
equity underwriting after dealmaking dried up this year, as well
as impair their ability to participate in future deals.  “Fees are so high because they reflect poor financial
conditions of the two insurers, risks linked to higher country-
risk and the chance of failure of the planned merger,” said
Angelo Drusiani, who manages about 3 billion euros at Banca
Albertini Syz & C. in Milan. “It’s going to be very hard to
sell the remaining shares. I see little chance of success.”  Shares Sink  Unipol (UNI)  shares, which sank to a record 1.84 euros on Aug. 6,
closed at 1.995 euros on Aug. 10, less than the 2 euros rights
offer price. Fondiaria, which also fell to a record 94 cents on
Aug. 6, closed at 97.75 euro cents, compared with its 1-euro
rights offer price.  Fondiaria and Unipol will offer investors later this month
the chance to buy stock shareholders didn’t buy, before the
underwriters are required to purchase the remainder.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)  are also managing the sales, which totaled 2.2
billion euros.  Officials at Mediobanca, Credit Suisse, UniCredit and UBS
declined to comment. Spokesmen for Barclays, Deutsche Bank and
Nomura weren’t immediately available to comment.  Unipol agreed in January to rescue Fondiaria through a
merger plan backed by Mediobanca, one of the company’s biggest
creditors, and UniCredit. The plan includes a four-way merger of
Unipol’s insurance unit,  Premafin Finanziaria SpA (PF) , Fondiaria and
its unit  Milano Assicurazioni SpA. (MI)  Unipol is tapping investors
for money to help finance the deal.  Morgan Stanley  Mediobanca, which has loaned more than 1 billion euros to
Fondiaria, arranged the group of banks underwriting the two
offers. In February, the insurers hired eight banks to
underwrite the sales, a group that shrank to seven after  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  dropped out. Officials for Morgan Stanley declined to
comment.  At 4.5 percent, the fee is the highest of all rights
offerings that have raised $1 billion or more since at least
2010, Freeman data show. The 55 million euros the banks will
earn as a basic fee may rise to as much as 103 million euros, or
about 8.7 percent of the total amount they’ve guaranteed, under
a so-called incentive fee, the  filings  show.  A spokesman for Unipol declined to comment, while officials
for Fondiaria didn’t return calls.  Banks charge higher fees for rights offers when stock
swings are greater because there’s a higher probability of being
left with unsold stock. Fondiaria shares posted daily falls of 5
percent or more 37 times this year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The benchmark  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  fell more than 4.5 percent in
one day on only two occasions this year.  “Banks are being more aggressive because the volume of
deals dropped a lot in IPOs and other areas,” said Josef Schuster, who helps oversee about $2.5 billion at Chicago-based
Ipox Schuster LLC. “They want to get their hands on all
possible opportunities out there -- without losing money.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  