-- Bayern Munich, Juventus Win Super Cup Season Openers; PSG Draws
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-08-12T22:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/bayern-munich-juventus-win-super-cup-season-openers-psg-draws.html
Bayern Munich  beat  Borussia Dortmund 
2-1 in German soccer’s season-opening Super Cup. Juventus, whose
coach was suspended last week for failing to report a match-
fixing incident, won Italy’s Super Cup.  Mario Mandzukic and Thomas Muller scored in the first 11
minutes at Munich’s Allianz Arena yesterday as Bayern ended a
run of five straight losses to Dortmund.  Robert Lewandowski  got
Dortmund’s goal in the 75th minute.  Germany’s Super Cup usually pits the Bundesliga champion
against the winner of the German Cup, although Dortmund won both
competitions last season with Bayern the runner-up in each.  Two days ago, defending Serie A champion Juventus scored
twice in extra time in Beijing to defeat Napoli 4-2 in the
Italian Super Cup. Napoli had Goran Pandev and Juan Camilo
Zuniga red-carded late in regulation play.  Kwadwo Asamoah and  Arturo Vidal  scored in normal time for
Juventus, with Edinson Cavani and Pandev getting the goals for
Napoli, last season’s Italian Cup winner. A Christian Maggio own
goal and a strike from Mirko Vucinic then sealed Juventus’s win.  Juventus coach  Antonio Conte  was suspended for 10 months on
Aug. 10 by Italy’s soccer federation for failing to report a
match-fixing incident. The club has said it will appeal his ban.
Massimo Carrera is leading the team in Conte’s absence.  Montpellier opened the defense of its French league title
with a 1-1 tie against nine-man Toulouse on Aug. 10. Paris
Saint-Germain was also held to a home draw two days ago.  Ibrahimovic Double  Sweden striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic, signed from AC Milan in
the offseason, salvaged a 2-2 tie for PSG against Lorient with a
last-minute penalty. He also scored the opening goal for last
season’s runner-up, which trailed 2-0 at halftime on a Maxwell
own goal and a Jeremie Aliadiere strike.  Marseille won 1-0 at Reims yesterday.  Ajax, which last season won its 31st Dutch championship,
was held to a 2-2 tie by  AZ Alkmaar  yesterday. Kolbeinn
Sigthorsson rescued a point for Ajax with a goal after 83
minutes.  Feyenoord won 1-0 at Utrecht, while two days ago  PSV
Eindhoven  opened with a 3-2 loss at  RKC Waalwijk .  Porto secured a fourth straight Portuguese Super Cup title
following a 1-0 win against Academica on Aug. 11. New signing
Jackson Martinez headed the only goal in injury time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 