-- China Trial Signals Ousted Leader Bo’s Future on Hold
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-12T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/bo-s-wife-apologizes-to-party-for-murder-xinhua-says.html
China ’s handling of the murder trial
of the wife of Bo Xilai signals the ruling Communist Party wants
to isolate her crime from the alleged misdeeds of the ousted
Politburo member before deciding on his punishment.  There was no mention of Bo in the official account of the
Aug. 9 trial in which the state-run Xinhua News Agency said his
wife, Gu Kailai, confessed to poisoning British businessman Neil
Heywood. Xinhua recounted her fear that Heywood had threatened
her son, highlighting her mental anguish and remorse for
causing “great losses” to the party and the country.  “The leadership will watch for the reaction to the trial
and verdict before coming to a final decision about what to do
with Bo,” said Ding Xueliang, a professor at  Hong Kong
University  of Science and Technology, who teaches contemporary
Chinese politics. “His survival isn’t completely destroyed and
he’s still in the last stage of the fight to keep some kind of
position and status.”  Gu’s trial was the latest episode in a scandal that saw
Bo’s ouster as Chongqing party chief in March and triggered the
most serious political upheaval since 1989. The party is gearing
up for this year’s once-in-a-decade leadership change, and
seeking to limit the impact from a case that threatens to shine
a light on cronyism and corruption at the center of power.  The court was told that Gu and her son had conflicts with
Heywood over “economic interests,” Xinhua said in a report
released late on Aug. 10. Gu testified she asked Heywood to
serve “as a proxy to a company and participate in the planning
of a land project, which never got started,” and the two sides
later got into a dispute over payment and other issues,
according to the Xinhua report of the court proceedings that
it said lasted about seven hours.  Threat to Son  As the conflict escalated, Gu believed he had threatened
the personal safety of her son and decided to kill the Briton,
Xinhua said. She admitted to dripping cyanide into Heywood’s
mouth as he lay drunk on his bed, Xinhua wrote.  Xinhua’s report of Gu’s trial was carried in the People’s
Daily, the Party’s mouthpiece, and in official newspapers
including the Economic Daily and the Beijing Youth Daily.  “So far, the court proceedings, the Xinhua report, the
public announcements, do not answer some of the key points that
are so crucial to understanding the motives and dynamics of the
murder,” Ding said. “There was no mention of Bo Xilai, which
is really the core part of the whole case. There was no mention
of the corruption that’s been reported in the media.”  ‘What a Nightmare’  The court heard Gu had been treated for chronic insomnia,
anxiety and depression with drugs including anti-psychotics,
anxiolytics, antidepressants and sedative hypnotic drugs, Xinhua
said, citing an assessment by forensic psychiatrists.  “This case has been like a huge stone weighing on me for
more than half a year,” Xinhua cited Gu as saying at the end of
the trial. “What a nightmare.”  The trial of Gu, 53, took place in Hefei more than 1,000
kilometers (622 miles) from the murder in Chongqing, China’s
biggest municipality, which Bo led for more than four years
until his downfall. An orderly in her house, Zhang Xiaojun,
confessed to aiding Gu, Xinhua said.  The verdicts on Gu and Zhang will be announced at a later
date, Tang Yigan, vice president of the Hefei Intermediate
People’s Court, told reporters on Aug. 9.  “This has been a well-planned and well-executed case and
done according to script,” said  Joseph Cheng , a professor of
political science at the  City University  of Hong Kong. “We’ve
had laid before us all the excuses, that Gu was under
psychological stress, she was an anxious mother, protective of
her son and she was cooperative with authorities. So it’s laying
the groundwork for a more lenient sentence.”  ‘Great Losses’  Gu said she accepted the facts in her indictment, according
to Xinhua. “The case has produced great losses to the party and
the country, for which I ought to shoulder the responsibility,
and I will never feel at ease,” Xinhua quoted her as saying.  Gu probably won’t be executed, according to Randy Peerenboom, a law professor at  La Trobe University  in  Melbourne .
Most likely she will be given the death penalty with a two-year
reprieve which will then be commuted to life in prison, he said.  “It would appear that a deal has been worked out where Gu
Kailai takes the blame and seeks leniency for her aide, as well
as leniency for herself,” he said.  Bo, 63, was stripped of his post after his former police
chief fled to the U.S. consulate in Chengdu in February with
evidence implicating Gu in Heywood’s murder, according to U.S.
officials briefed on the matter. Chinese investigators initially
told U.K. authorities that Heywood died in November of alcohol
poisoning.  Political Influence  Since the scandal erupted, Bo’s family has become an
embodiment of the political influence and wealth that has been
accumulated by some relatives of China’s top leaders. Gu’s
sisters controlled a web of businesses from Beijing to  Hong Kong 
to the Caribbean worth at least $126 million, regulatory and
corporate filings show.  Delegates from the Communist Party, which has more than 82
million members, will meet later this year in Beijing for the
18th Congress to select new leaders who will govern China for
the next decade. Bo was a possible candidate for the  Central
Committee , the highest ruling body, until his ouster.  For the wife of a Politburo member to be tried for
murdering a foreigner is unparalleled in Chinese history, said
Minxin Pei, a government professor at  Claremont McKenna College 
in  California . Only the prosecution of Jiang Qing, Gang of Four
leader and the last wife of former leader  Mao Zedong , has any
similarities, he said.  ‘Done Deal’  Gu is the youngest of five daughters of a People’s
Liberation Army general. She rose from a butcher’s assistant
during the 1966-1976 Cultural Revolution to become an attorney
who won a lawsuit in the U.S. and went on to write a book about
the experience.  The verdict will probably be announced in the next one or
two weeks, said Peerenboom.  “It’s more or less a done deal so what’s the advantage of
waiting,” he said. “The Party clearly wanted to separate this
case from whatever they want to do with Bo Xilai so they wanted
to deal with it before the fall.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  