-- Cameron Pledges Sports Cash in Bid for 2015 Votes, 2016 Olympics
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-08-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/cameron-pledges-sports-cash-in-bid-for-2015-votes-2016-olympics.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
pledged cash for British sports as he tried to harness the
London Olympics to spur success at the 2016 games and political
victory at the 2015 general election.  Cameron said annual funding of 125 million pounds ($196
million) for elite sports training will continue until 2016,
after government support and a home crowd saw Britain’s
Olympians come third in the gold-medal table this year.  The prime minister, whose Conservative Party has been
behind in every poll since March and who has gone through a
series of policy U-turns and lawmaker rebellions in the same
period, has been keen to associate himself with the success of
the Olympics. Aides even used his Twitter Inc. feed to release a
 picture of him  in his office, wearing the team’s outfit,
watching a boxer win a medal on television.  “Which politician wouldn’t want to be associated with
Britain’s best Olympics in 100 years, and some of the most
popular people in Britain?” said  Philip Cowley , professor of
politics at Nottingham University. “The trick is to do it
without looking naff.”  The U.K. is struggling to emerge from a  double-dip
recession , with the  Bank of England  cutting growth forecasts
last week to show the economy at a standstill this year. Cameron
suggested the spirit of optimism that has surrounded the games
might help there, too.  “Over the last couple of weeks we’ve looked in the mirror,
and we like what we have seen,” he told reporters in the garden
of his London office yesterday. “The lesson of these past weeks
is that Britain can, and should, be ambitious.”  Security Success  Cameron will announce today that a commemorative coin will
be issued to police and troops who helped deliver security at
the games, many at short notice after security company  G4S Plc (GFS) 
failed to deliver enough staff. G4S in turn said today that it
will give 2.5 million pounds to Armed Forces welfare groups.  Cameron wasn’t the only politician seeking to share in the
reflected glory of Britain’s gold medal winning athletes. Deputy
Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  and
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  were also seen at
Olympic events along with  Ed Miliband , leader of the main
opposition Labour Party.  Both parties have tried to claim credit. The bid for the
games was won in 2005 by a Labour Prime Minister,  Tony Blair ,
and a Labour Mayor of London,  Ken Livingstone . Cameron in turn
attributed Britain’s sporting success to funding streams set up
by  John Major , Blair’s Conservative predecessor.  Bad Mix  The attempts to combine sports and politics did not always
go to plan. Cameron’s first two appearances coincided with
British favorites Tom Daley and  Mark Cavendish  losing, while
Hunt was filmed shaking  News Corp. (NWSA)  Chairman  Rupert Murdoch ’s
hand in a car park, giving the impression the two were having a
secret meeting.  London mayor  Boris Johnson  was left hanging from a zip wire
in Victoria Park, an event that the London-based  Guardian 
newspaper reported was caused by his reluctance to be weighed by
organizers. And Osborne was seen waiting among empty seats after
the cycling finals in the velodrome on Aug. 3 as multi-gold
medal winner Bradley Wiggins talked to friends at the front of
the block. Osborne gave up and left without his photo
opportunity.  The photograph of Cameron watching the boxing on
television, complete with portrait of  Winston Churchill  and a
cup of tea, was ridiculed on Twitter. “Who the **** in Number
Ten thought this was a good idea?” wrote Conservative blogger
Iain Dale.  Olympic Legacy  Cameron announced yesterday that Sebastian Coe, an athlete-
turned-politician who was in charge of organizing the London
Games, will become his “legacy ambassador,” advising on ways
to ensure the benefits of the event continue.  The prime minister also said he wants schools to focus on
competitive sports, accusing some of using activities such as
“Indian dancing” as a way of filling students’ physical-
exercise time. Labour has said it was Cameron’s government that
scrapped a requirement that schools give children two hours of
sports a week, and cut spending in the area.  “You do not get excellence on the cheap, nor do you get
all the other virtuous outcomes that come from that without
long-term and predictable levels of funding, and that’s what
we’ve witnessed,” Coe told reporters at the Olympic Park.
“That’s what we witnessed in Beijing, that’s what we witnessed
here, and if we want to maintain our position in Olympic sport
then that’s what you will need to do.”  Cameron also offered the possibility that sports funding
would continue past 2016 if he wins the election the previous
year.  “I very much hope I’ll still be prime minister in 2016,
and this will still be the government, and we’ll make the
decision again for the next four years,” he told the BBC
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  