-- Chavez Reiterates Claim Capriles Was a Member of a Fascist Group
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-08-12T00:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/chavez-reiterates-claim-capriles-was-a-member-of-a-fascist-group.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
reiterated his claim that rival Henrique Capriles Radonski is a
fascist who belonged to a neo-Nazi group in his youth, days
after Capriles asked him to respect his Jewish background.  Chavez, speaking on state television during an electoral
rally, said he had proof that Capriles belonged to the
“fascist” Catholic group “Tradition, Family and Property.”  “Recently he told me to respect his family. I haven’t
disrespected his family,” Chavez said. “What I said was a
great truth -- that in his youth he was a member of an
organization called ‘Tradition, Family and Property.’ It’s an
organization of violent and fascist nature.”  Chavez, who is seeking to extend his 13 years in power in
 Venezuela  with another six-year term in an October election,
faces his toughest challenge yet after the opposition united
behind a youthful leader following years of bickering.  Capriles, whose family founded the local unit of Nabisco,
said Aug. 7 that Chavez should stop making such claims given
that his grandparents were assassinated by the Nazis during
World War II.  “My grandparents experienced the terror of Nazi
concentration camps -- they’re buried in some part of the world
after being assassinated by the Nazis,” Capriles said,
according to a statement. Chavez “doesn’t have the right to
offend my origins -- I’ve never messed with his family.”  Tradition, Family and Property is a worldwide lay Catholic
movement that was started in  Brazil  in the 1960s to defend
against moral threats that, according to the website of its U.S.
affiliate, include gay marriage, abortion and  Dan Brown ’s 2003
bestselling mystery “The Da Vinci Code.”  Trading Insults  The campaign has been marked by insults and incidents of
violence. State television channel VTV in February made the same
claim against Capriles, saying the group was a “neo-Nazi sect”
that sought to assassinate Pope  John Paul II  and “eliminate
blacks, mestizos, communists and the poor.” The report didn’t
say what evidence it had to support its claim.  An article published Feb. 13 on the website of Radio
Nacional, titled “The Enemy is Zionism,” linked Capriles with
the Jewish nationalist movement because of a meeting he held
with members of the Confederation of Israeli Associations of
Venezuela, the main umbrella group of the country’s 12,000-
strong Jewish community.  The Oct. 7 election will be a choice between Chavez’s
socialist revolution and “international Zionism which threatens
to destroy the planet,” according to an article published on
the website of Radio Nacional de Venezuela a day after Capriles
won a Feb. 12 opposition primary.  Campaign Violence  Gunmen riding motorbikes fired into the air during a
Capriles campaign stop in a Caracas slum in March, injuring the
son of one of his allies.  State media has said its journalists have been threatened
and assaulted when covering Capriles’s campaign events.  Chavez, who declines to refer to Capriles by name,
preferring instead to call him a “loser,” a “pig” or “the
bourgeois candidate,” warned of dire consequences for Venezuela
should he lose the elections.  “We irradiate love while the Venezuela bourgeoisie, the
Venezuelan right irradiates hate and violence,” Chavez said.
“We are the guarantee of stability.”  Opinion polls made public recently have varied widely.
Chavez had 45.9 percent support against 45.8 percent for
Capriles in a Consultores 21 poll of 1,000 people taken from
June 15 to June 26. The survey had a margin of error of 3.2
percentage points. In a June poll by Caracas-based Datanalisis,
Chavez had a 15 percentage-point lead.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  