-- McIlroy Wins PGA by Record 8 Shots for 2nd Major Golf Title
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-08-13T00:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/mcilroy-wins-pga-by-record-8-shots-for-2nd-major-golf-title-1-.html
Rory McIlroy had six birdies in a
bogey-free final round of 66 to win the PGA Championship by a
record eight shots, adding a second career Grand Slam title to
go with his 2011 U.S. Open victory.  McIlroy, a 23-year-old from  Northern Ireland , is four
months younger than  Tiger Woods  was when he captured his second
major at the 1999 PGA Championship.  McIlroy’s eight-stroke win at the Ocean Course in Kiawah
Island,  South Carolina , broke  Jack Nicklaus ’s record victory
margin of seven over Andy Bean in 1980 as the largest in the
history of the golf season’s final major championship. McIlroy
finished with a score of 13-under-par 275, while Englishman
David Lynn was second at 5 under.  “It’s been an incredible week,” McIlroy said before he
received the Wanamaker Trophy. “I had a good feeling about it
at the start. To look at the names on that trophy and to put my
name alongside them is very special.”  The win is the seventh of McIlroy’s career and second of
the 2012 season, following victory at the Honda Classic in March.
It returns him to the No. 1 spot in the golf’s Official World
Ranking and erases disappointing performances in golf’s three
other majors this season.  McIlroy entered the third day of April’s Masters tournament
one shot off the lead, only to finish 40th after a 5-over 77 in
the third round. He missed the cut in the  U.S. Open  at the
Olympic Club in  San Francisco  in June and finished 60th at last
month’s British Open.  First Major  McIlroy’s first major title -- at the 2011 U.S. Open --
came after he blew a four-shot final-round lead at that year’s
Masters by closing with an 8-over 80. Two months later at
Congressional Country Club in  Maryland , the then 22-year-old
McIlroy won the U.S. Open by eight strokes with the lowest score
in tournament history.  McIlroy began the final 18 holes today with a three-stroke
lead over  Sweden ’s Carl Pettersson.  After nine holes,  England ’s  Ian Poulter  had pulled within
two shots of the lead before faltering with three straight
bogeys, giving McIlroy a six-shot cushion with six holes
remaining. Poulter finished with four bogeys over his final six
holes, while McIlroy pulled away.  McIlroy took 24 putts in the final round, including a
birdie putt of more than 20 feet on the 18th hole for his second
eight-stroke romp in a major championship. Woods won his first
two majors -- the 1997 Masters and 1999  PGA Championship  -- by a
combined 13 strokes.  Phenomenal Putting  “I got off to a bit of a shaky start,” McIlroy said. “I
had a bit of a pill on the second, but I was able to make birdie
and from there I settled into it a little bit. I thought my
putting today was phenomenal.”  Woods, 36, a four-time PGA Championship winner, finished 11
shots behind McIlroy after entering the third round tied for the
lead. His even-par 72 in the final round followed a 2-over 74 in
the rain-delayed third round. Woods didn’t break par in a
weekend round at a major this season and hasn’t won a major
title since the 2008 U.S. Open.  Woods said his chances of winning the tournament were
derailed during the third round when he made bogeys on four of
the first eight holes. He went from tied atop the leaderboard
after 36 holes to five strokes off the lead heading into the
final round.  Tie for 11th  “I was trying to enjoy it, enjoy the process of it,”
Woods said. “But that’s not how I play. I play full systems go,
all out, intense, and that’s how I won 14 of these things.”  Woods tied for 11th at 2 under par.  The 38-year-old Lynn, who won once on the European Tour,
shot back-to-back rounds of 68 on the weekend to climb into
second place. Pettersson, Poulter,  Justin Rose  and Keegan Bradley tied for third at 4 under.  “You know, he was just better than everybody, and it was
clear to everybody I think,” Pettersson said of McIlroy. “He
drives it long, straight, hits his irons great, and he chipped
and putted awesome. He made every clutch putt out there.”  McIlroy is the first golfer from Northern Ireland to win
the PGA Championship and the first from the  United Kingdom  to
capture the season’s final major since Tommy Armour in 1930. His
victory ended a streak of 16 different major champions dating
back to Padraig Harrington’s win at the 2008 PGA Championship.  ‘Pretty Impressive  “We all know the talent he has,” Woods said. “He went
through a little spell this year, and I think that was good for
him. We all go through those spells in our careers. He’s got all
the talent in the world and this is the way that Rory can play.
When he gets it going, it’s pretty impressive to watch.”  The tournament was the first major played at the Ocean
Course, a Pete Dye-built venue amid sand dunes alongside the
Atlantic Ocean. The course hosted the 1991 Ryder Cup matches
between  Europe  and the U.S., and the 2007 Senior PGA
Championship.  Heavy rain soaked the course early in the week and a late-
day thunderstorm yesterday forced the third round to be
completed today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  