-- McIlroy Holds Six-Shot Lead at PGA Golf, Tiger Woods Is 8 Back
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-08-12T21:27:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/mcilroy-holds-one-shot-lead-at-rain-delayed-pga-woods-is-4-back.html
Rory McIlroy holds a six-stroke lead
halfway through the final round of the  PGA Championship  as he
seeks his second career major golf title.  Tiger Woods  is eight
shots back.  McIlroy, 23, the 2011 U.S. Open winner from Northern
Ireland, is at 11 under par at the Ocean Course in Kiawah
Island,  South Carolina . He completed a 5-under third round of 67
when play resumed this morning after a thunderstorm suspended
play yesterday.  McIlroy has birdied the second, third, seventh and 12th
holes of his final round after making seven birdies and two
bogeys, while hitting 11 of 14 fairways, to finish the third
round.  Ian Poulter , 36, of  England  and Carl Pettersson, 34, of
Sweden are tied for second at 5 under.  Poulter began the final round at 1 under before opening
with five straight birdies to reach 6 under. He added birdies on
the seventh, 11th and 12th holes around a bogey on the eighth.
He then added three straight bogeys on the 13th through 15th
holes.  Pettersson was assessed a two-stroke penalty for moving a
leaf while swinging his club to hit a shot from a hazard area on
the first hole.  Defending champion Keegan Bradley and Bo Van Pelt of the
U.S., Australian  Adam Scott ,  Justin Rose  of England and  Peter
Hanson  of Sweden are tied for fourth at 4 under.  This is the fourth time McIlroy has led entering the final
round of a U.S. PGA event. He has won two of the three earlier
events, finishing 15th at the 2011 Masters by shooting 80 in the
final round after holding a four-shot lead. It’s the first time
he has led after any round of the PGA Championship.  Tiger Woods  Woods, who is at 3 under for the tournament through 13
holes of the final round, has not broken par in a weekend round
at a major this season. He has two birdies and a bogey in his
final round after a 2-over 74 in his third round.  Woods has never come from behind in the final round in any
of his 14 career major victories. His largest final-round
comeback is five shots, a margin he overcame to win the 2009
Arnold Palmer Invitational and the 2000 Pebble Beach National
Pro-Am.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  