-- Health Care Reveals Daylight Between Ryan, Romney
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   F l a v e l l e
-- 2012-08-12T23:12:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/health-care-reveals-daylight-between-ryan-romney.html
When  Paul Ryan  was simply the  Republican Party ’s
leading light on health-care policy, having Mitt Romney say nice things
about Ryan’s ideas must have seemed obvious. Now that Ryan is Romney’s running
mate, the two have some differences to sort out.  The first thing for Romney and Ryan to resolve is what to
do with the $500 billion reduction in Medicare spending included
in President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 health-care overhaul. Romney
would reverse those payment reductions along with the rest of
the law, his campaign told Bloomberg Government.  By contrast, Ryan’s latest budget proposal calls for
maintaining those cuts and redirecting the savings into the
Medicare trust fund. “Our budget keeps that money for Medicare,
to extend its solvency,” Ryan said in July.  Promising to undo the Medicare cuts may be good politics.
Republicans used those cuts to help win back the  House of
Representatives  in 2010, and Romney has cited the $500 billion
number on the stump. Pledging now to keep those cuts would be an
awkward policy reversal, especially for a man who can ill afford
more of them.  Even so, keeping the cuts may be important for Romney and
Ryan, from a budget perspective. Both men’s Medicare
proposals rely on vouchers to save money, but those vouchers
won’t begin to be used for 10 years, and initially only for a
small slice of the program’s beneficiaries.  If the 2010 cuts were reversed, Romney would need to
replace them or see the fiscal soundness of Medicare deteriorate
during his tenure.  Vouchers  Another issue for the two men to work out is what, exactly,
to do about Medicare in the long run. Before the Republicans
took the House in 2010, Ryan had proposed replacing Medicare
with a system of vouchers, or “premium support payments,”
which future beneficiaries could use to buy private insurance.
The approach would reduce federal spending because the value of
the vouchers would increase more gradually than projected
Medicare costs.  Ryan has continued to advocate for Medicare vouchers,
gradually winning over his party.  In Romney’s campaign platform “Believe in America,”
released last September, he wrote that while Ryan’s Medicare
plan “makes important strides in the right direction,” his own
plan will “differ.” Romney didn’t say what the differences
would be, but noticeably absent from the platform’s language on
Medicare was any mention of vouchers or premium support
payments.  By November, Romney’s hesitations about Medicare vouchers
seemed to vanish. He announced a plan to give future Medicare
beneficiaries a choice: they could stay on the current program
or take vouchers for private insurance. There was only one
catch: If the cost of traditional Medicare went up faster than
that of private plans, beneficiaries would pay the difference in
higher premiums.  Ryan’s latest budget proposal echoes Romney’s proposal,
with one important difference: It comes with a stick attached.
If competition among private insurers fails to keep cost growth
below the nominal gross domestic product plus 0.5 percentage
points, Ryan’s plan would impose a hard cap at that level.  Romney’s plan, which is otherwise described in some detail
on his website, makes no mention of a hard cap on spending
growth, or what that cap would be. Ryan will want to ensure that
Romney’s recent conversion to vouchers is both fiscally
meaningful and likely to last beyond the election.  Employer Health Insurance  Finally, Romney and Ryan must settle an argument over the
tax treatment of employer-sponsored health insurance. To be more
precise, Ryan must settle the argument with himself.  Under current law, insurance premiums paid on behalf of
employees are exempt from both income and payroll taxes. That
policy reduces potential  tax revenue ; it also drives up health-
care spending by reducing the real price of insurance.  In his 2010 budget proposal, Ryan called for repealing the
tax exclusion on employer-sponsored insurance and replacing it
with an individual tax credit for people to use to buy their own
coverage. After Republicans won the House, the proposal to end
the tax exclusion stopped appearing in Ryan’s budgets. Perhaps
he decided he could only win so many fights at once.  Romney has also avoided talking about the tax exclusion;
his campaign told Bloomberg Government that he doesn’t have
plans to change the current policy. But if Ryan becomes vice
president, he may believe he has the political capital to
revisit one of the country’s most expensive, and most
distortionary, tax breaks.  Conservative Credentials  Who will win these disagreements is impossible to predict.
Even so, Ryan may have the upper hand. Romney’s credentials on
health care, at least to Republican eyes, remain suspect,
following the universal health care plan he implemented as
governor of  Massachusetts . That plan, which included a mandate
to buy insurance, became the template for Obama’s health care
law, something Republicans will never let Romney forget.  Ryan’s conservative credentials in this area are, by
contrast, embossed in gold. After winning the support of his
party, through years of persistence, it’s hard to imagine Ryan
not attempting to win over  Mitt Romney  on the details. It’s even
harder to imagine him not succeeding.  (Christopher Flavelle is a health-care analyst for
Bloomberg Government. The views expressed are his own.)  To contact the analyst:
Christopher Flavelle in Washington at 
 cflavelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible:
Kenneth Sands at 
 kjsands@bloomberg.net  