-- Evolution of Ryan Budgets Steers Fiscal Complexity: BGOV Insight
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   F l a v e l l e
-- 2012-08-12T23:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/evolution-of-ryan-budgets-steers-fiscal-complexity-bgov-insight.html
Before  Paul Ryan  became a household
name this weekend as  Mitt Romney ’s running mate, the Wisconsin
congressman and chairman of the House Budget Committee was a
fixture of the Republican policy world. Bloomberg Government
looks back at Ryan’s budget proposals.  Medicare and Medicaid  The focus of Ryan’s budget proposals, and the parts that
have gained the most attention, are his ideas for reducing
federal spending on Medicare, the health-care program for the
elderly, and Medicaid, the program for poor.  Medicare is the larger of the two and more politically
sensitive. Americans above the age of 65 are more likely to vote
than their younger compatriots, and they are more likely to vote
Republican.  In 2010, when Ryan was still the ranking minority member of
the Budget Committee in the Democratic-controlled House, he
released a budget proposal, “Roadmap for America’s Future,”
that called for replacing Medicare with vouchers starting in
2020. Under his proposal, those who entered the program before
then would see no change in their benefits; those who entered
after would receive vouchers for buying private insurance.  Ryan’s voucher proposal would lead to slower growth in
federal Medicare spending because the value of the voucher would
grow more slowly than current projections for the program. In
his 2010 budget, Ryan proposed increasing the voucher at a rate
halfway between the  consumer price index , which measures general
inflation, and the  price index  for medical care. The
 Congressional Budget Office  estimated the voucher would grow at
2.7 percent each year, compared with 5 percent growth in
national health-care spending under then-current law.  The Medicare voucher proposal was greeted with skepticism,
but rather than pull back, Ryan released an even more aggressive
proposal the following year, when Republicans took control of
the House and he became chairman of the Budget Committee. In his
2011 budget, Ryan proposed vouchers that would increase at a
rate equal to the consumer price index alone -- a rate
significantly lower than projected growth in medical costs.  To alleviate concerns that his plan would hit poorer
seniors hardest, Ryan included a proposal to “means-test” the
vouchers, giving less money to wealthier beneficiaries. A
Bloomberg Government  Study  found that the effect of the means-
testing proposal would be modest, saving the federal government
4.4 percent of what vouchers would have cost otherwise.  In his latest budget, released earlier this year, Ryan gave
future Medicare beneficiaries the choice of staying on the
current, government-run program, or instead receiving vouchers
to buy private insurance. There was one catch: If competition
failed to reduce cost growth, this plan would impose a hard cap
on the federal government’s contribution. That cap would be
equal to nominal growth in gross domestic product, plus 0.5
percentage point.  By excluding those 55 and older from any reduction in
Medicare benefits, Ryan’s new plan wouldn’t save as much money.
He looked instead for the health-care savings from Medicaid, a
program run by state governments that are reimbursed by the
federal government for 50 percent to 83 percent of their costs,
depending on each state’s wealth. As with Medicare, the cost of
Medicaid is driven in part by increases in the cost of medical
care, causing spending on the program to grow faster than
inflation.  Ryan proposes converting federal spending on Medicaid into
a block grant, in which the federal government gives states a
payment each year, which they could use as they see fit. The
value of those payments would grow more slowly than the current
program. Unlike Medicare, there would be no exclusion for
current beneficiaries. A Bloomberg Government  Study  examined the
finer distinctions among various types of Medicaid block-grant
proposals.  Social Security  Ryan’s willingness to overhaul mandatory spending programs
once extended to Social Security, the largest such program. In
his 2010 budget proposal, the last before Ryan became House
Budget chairman, he called for reduced payments for those who
turn 65 starting in 10 years. His proposal also included
individual Social Security investment accounts, with the
government guaranteeing a rate of return at least equal to
inflation.  Once Republicans won the House, Ryan’s budgets stopped
advocating for changes to Social Security. His 2011 budget
called simply for Congress to “move the conversation to
solutions to save Social Security,” without saying what those
solutions ought to be. This year’s budget proposal neglected to
mention Social Security at all.  Defense  A consistent theme in Ryan’s budgets has been scant
attention to defense spending. In his 2010 budget proposal, Ryan
made no mention of defense cuts, except to cite former
Comptroller General David M. Walker’s quote that “cutting way
back on defense will not solve the problem” of rising deficits.  After becoming Budget chairman, Ryan’s first plan called
for implementing $178 billion in cuts proposed by then-Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates . Only $78 billion would go toward deficit
reduction; $100 billion would go back to the department,
“reinvested in higher priority combat capabilities.”  “Responsible budgeting must never lose sight of the fact
that the first responsibility of the federal government is to
provide for the defense of the nation,” Ryan wrote in that 2011
budget.  By this year, Ryan had dropped even that modest call for
defense cuts. His 2012 budget contained much discussion of
defense spending, but no proposals for reducing it. Instead, the
budget called for reversing the cuts included under the so-
called sequestration process set to begin in 2013 -- cuts that
were triggered when last summer’s “supercommittee” failed to
agree on how to reduce the deficit.  Other Spending  Much of Ryan’s projected reductions to federal spending
would come from what’s known as non-defense discretionary
funding -- a category that encompasses much of the vast range of
what Washington does, from  cancer research  to education funding
to air traffic control.  By leaving defense cuts off the table, backing away from
Social Security cuts, and limiting Medicare reductions to those
who won’t join the program for 10 years, Ryan has ensured that
any significant drop in federal spending must rely heavily on
discretionary spending.  That calculation can be seen in Ryan’s proposals. His 2010
budget called for freezing non-defense discretionary spending
for 10 years at its pre-stimulus 2009 level -- and in nominal
terms, meaning that spending wouldn’t increase with inflation.
As a result, what was technically a freeze would have led to
significant cuts, as prices increased and the population grew.
Ryan’s latest budget called for replacing the $1.2 trillion in
cuts under the sequestration process -- half from the  defense
budget , the other half mostly from discretionary spending --with
$261 billion in cuts over 10 years.  Fiscal Policy  Not all of Ryan’s cuts would go toward deficit reduction.
His latest budget called for reducing the corporate  tax rate  to
25 percent from 35 percent; consolidating the six current
brackets of personal income tax into just two, at 10 percent and
25 percent; and making permanent the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts
signed by President  George W. Bush .  For more on Ryan’s latest tax proposals, see Bloomberg
Government’s  Fact Sheet .  Ryan’s 2011 budget would have led to lower debt than the
president’s plan, according to a Bloomberg Government  Study .
However, the difference was small, and Ryan’s plan would still
have left the country with a debt-to-GDP ratio above 60 percent,
the international standard for fiscal responsibility.  Ryan’s 2011 budget would have left the publicly held debt
at 65.4 percent of gross domestic product in 2020, Bloomberg
Government found. By comparison, Obama’s 2011 budget would have
led to a debt-to-GDP ratio of 68.7 percent.  The study concluded that, while both plans’ cuts had been
criticized, “even bolder measures will be needed” to bring
 U.S. debt  down to an acceptable level.  (Christopher Flavelle is a health-care analyst for
Bloomberg Government. The views expressed are his own.)  To contact the analyst:
Christopher Flavelle in Washington at 
 cflavelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible:
Kenneth Sands at 
 kjsands@bloomberg.net  