-- Giant Picasso, Antique Tank in 1917 Exhibition: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-08-12T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/giant-picasso-antique-tank-star-in-exhibition-on-1917-review.html
Metz isn’t what you would call a
tourist attraction. Yet the megashow at the  Centre Pompidou 
branch in the eastern French city is well worth a visit.  The focal point of the exhibition “1917” is the curtain
for Erik Satie’s ballet “Parade,” Picasso’s biggest canvas and
one of the gems of the Paris-based arts center. Because of its
size (10.5 meters by 16.4 meters/34.5 feet by 53.8 feet), it
hasn’t been seen in the French capital for more than 20 years.  The ballet created a scandal at its May 18, 1917, Paris
premiere. Many people thought that, in the third year of World
War I, a cheerful send-up of bourgeois philistinism with clowns,
sirens, typewriters and pistol shots was out of place.  Around the curtain the exhibition curators have grouped no
less than 1,500 paintings, sculptures, prints, posters,
photographs and documents on loan from more than 100 museums and
archives. Most, though by no means all, refer to the war.  The year 1917 was when the U.S. entered the conflict, when
the Czar was deposed and the Bolsheviks made peace with  Germany .
It was also the year of misguided attempts by the French and
U.K. army commands to break the deadlock on the Western Front
that cost them half a million casualties within a few weeks.  Renault Tank  A Renault FT 17 tank in the entrance hall reminds us that
the era of the cavalry, the traditional master of offensive
warfare, was coming to an end.  Tanks weren’t the only novelty.  On Jan. 12, 1917, the first Dada exhibition opened in
Zurich. On Feb. 26, the Original Dixieland Jass Band recorded
the first-ever jazz single, and in October the inaugural issue
of “De Stijl,” the most influential avant-garde publication in
 Europe , appeared in Leiden, Holland.  The organizers do their best to illustrate the various and
often contradictory aspects of that momentous year.  Not everything works: To sellMonet’s “Waterlilies” as a
contribution to the war effort or to establish a link between
gas masks and masks in contemporary art is farfetched.  More to the point are the testimonies from artists who
fought on both sides:  Otto Dix ,  Max Ernst , Fernand Leger,  Max Beckmann , John and Paul Nash and many others recorded what they
saw with brush and pencil.  Camouflage Art  One of the most fascinating sections presents those artists
who offered their services to help make camouflage uniforms and
military equipment.  Victor Guirand de Scevola, known for his society portraits,
designed observation posts disguised as trees. The marine artist
Norman Wilkinson invented what he called “dazzle painting,” a
naval camouflage intended to confuse German U-boats.  Professional artists weren’t the only ones inspired by the
war. An entire wall is covered with shell bases reworked by
ordinary soldiers into sculptures. Another room is filled with
crucifixes, amulets and similar religious objects made during
the endless periods of inactivity in the trenches.  The most gruesome items are the “gueules cassees,”
mutilated faces of soldiers made of plaster or wax to be used as
teaching material in medical schools. Nothing illustrates the
horrors of war better than these casts.  “1917,” which is supported by  Wendel SA (MF) , runs through
Sept. 24. The train ride from Paris’s Gare de l’Est to Metz
takes 90 minutes.  Information:  http://www.centrepompidou-metz.fr .  (Jorg von Uthmann writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Mark Beech  on rock music and  Elin McCoy  on wine.  To contact the writer on this story:
Jorg von Uthmann, in Paris, at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 