-- Gillard Wins Opposition Support for States Selling Energy Assets
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-08-12T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/gillard-wins-opposition-support-for-states-selling-energy-assets.html
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s
policy of encouraging states to sell off electricity assets won
support from Australia’s opposition, which is leading in opinion
polls before elections due next year.  “We’re not in favor of governments owning businesses like
this,” Shadow Communications and Broadband Minister  Malcolm Turnbull  said in an Aug. 11 interview on Sky Television.  Turnbull’s comments came a day after Australian Resources
and Energy Minister  Martin Ferguson  told business leaders in
Perth that state-government ownership of electricity assets in
 Western Australia , Queensland and New South Wales was hindering
private investment. Soaring power bills have become a political
issue in Australia, with Gillard last week saying state-
 government spending  was mainly to blame rather than her new tax
on  carbon emissions .  Gillard, the nation’s first female prime minister, said Aug.
9 she’s seeking talks with state governments to find ways to
restrict power-price increases. Australia on July 1 started
charging about 300 of its largest polluters a fixed rate of A$23
a metric ton for  greenhouse gases , with a market-based price
scheduled to begin in 2015.  “The biggest barrier to greater investment in Western
Australia’s energy infrastructure is government ownership,”
Ferguson said. “It is crowding out private players who do not
have the certainty that government policy won’t change and
adversely affect them.”  Higher Prices  Ferguson said the result has been higher prices for
consumers, which include operators of the resource projects that
have driven the nation’s economic growth for the past decade.
The lack of competition in  Western Australia , which generates
more than A$80 billion ($84.6 billion) in mineral export revenue
a year, has seen electricity prices surge 57 percent since
September 2008, even as the state’s government suppressed prices
by A$367 million in the year to June 30, Ferguson said.  “In an environment where consumers are facing significant
electricity-price increases despite the government limiting the
full pass-through of costs, there is a clear argument for
increased competition in the market,” Ferguson said.  To compensate for increased power prices in  Australia ,
which relies on coal for 80 percent of its energy, Gillard’s
government has delivered cash handouts to lower- and middle-
income earners.  Poll Boost  Her tactics may be working. Support for her Labor
government rose to the highest level in six months, according to
an opinion poll published Aug. 7. Labor’s primary vote increased
five points to 33 percent from two weeks before, while support
for the Tony Abbott-led opposition Liberal-National coalition
dropped one point to 45, the Newspoll for the Australian
newspaper showed.  After the closest election in seven decades, Gillard put
together a minority government in September 2010 with support
from independents and Greens. The price was being forced to
backtrack on a promise not to tax carbon emissions, which was
implemented on July 1 along with new taxes on  iron ore  and coal
mining profits.  Gillard’s carbon price is the government’s main tool for
reducing the country’s reliance on coal and meeting its target
for a 5 percent cut in greenhouse-gases from 2000 levels by 2020.
The levy will be fixed until 2015, when the nation will
introduce a cap-and-trade system that lets companies buy and
sell a fixed number of emissions permits.  Abbott’s Pledge  Abbott has pledged that should his coalition win power in
elections due by November 2013, he would legislate to scrap the
carbon price, which Treasury forecasts will reap A$24.7 billion
in revenue within four years. He’s attacked what he calls the
“toxic tax,” saying it has been responsible for driving up
power bills.  “There are already some early indications that people are
starting to see through the incredible wild scare campaign that
has been run about carbon pricing,” Gillard said in an
interview published in the Age newspaper Aug. 11.  Turnbull, the former coalition leader who was defeated by
Abbott in a December 2009 party room ballot because of his
support of an emissions trading system, said the carbon tax
hasn’t been responsible for power-price increases before July 1.  “Over the last five years or so in the east coast capital
cities, electricity prices have gone up by about 50 percent and
this is pre-carbon tax,” Turnbull said. “That has been largely
a function of investment in distribution and transmission in
polls and wires.”  State Resistance  State-owned electricity companies were overspending on
improving infrastructure to reduce the chances of blackouts that
were politically damaging, Turnbull said.  Queensland and Western Australia, both states controlled by
the Liberal-National coalition, have rejected Ferguson’s calls
to sell off power assets. Western Australian Energy Minister
Peter Collier on Aug. 10 said Labor should “walk away” from
commenting on the state’s energy industry, The Australian
newspaper reported.  “Calls by the federal government for states to sell power
assets would result in Queensland taxpayers losing more than
A$1.5 billion through massive devaluations of electricity assets
due to the carbon tax,” Queensland Energy Minister Mark McArdle
said in an e-mailed statement on Aug. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  