-- Iran Ends Rescue Efforts After Earthquakes Kill 220
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-08-12T14:27:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/iran-quakes-kill-220-rescue-teams-seek-survivors.html
Iran  concluded efforts to rescue
survivors of two earthquakes in the northwest that killed at
least 220 people and left thousands homeless.  “Rescue operation have finished and all victims have been
transferred to safe areas or hospitals,” Health Minister
Marzieh Vahid Dastjerdi said today, according to the state-run
Mehr news agency.  The temblors, with magnitudes of 6.4 and 6.3, struck
yesterday near Tabriz, the capital of East Azerbaijan province,
destroying tens of villages, the official  Islamic Republic News
Agency  said. At least 220 people were killed, IRNA cited Khalil
Saei, crisis management director in East Azerbaijan, as saying.
Vahid Dastjerdi said the final death toll isn’t expected to
exceed 250.  Iran sits on several  fault lines  and is frequently hit by
earthquakes. An estimated 40,000 people were killed when a
temblor flattened the city of Bam in the southern province of
Kerman in December 2003. Iran’s northwestern region is home to
Azeris, who speak a Turkic language and are the country’s
largest ethnic minority.  More than 1,000 emergency aid workers had been deployed to
the towns of  Ahar  and Varzaghan to help dig people out from
beneath the rubble, state television reported.  Interior Minister Mostafa Mohammad-Najjar said Iran had
received offers from abroad to aid earthquake victims and had
declined them.  Tents for Homeless  “We will carry out relief work by relying on our domestic
potential,” IRNA quoted Mohammad-Najjar as saying.  Some 4,000 tents have been set up and 18,000 packages of
food and drinking water distributed, Mohammad-Najjar said.  “From today, we will seek to proceed in the best way
possible with accommodation and food for the victims’
families,” he said, according to state television.  Moharram Foroughi, the governor of Varzaghan county, said
12 villages in his region were destroyed, according to IRNA.
Five villages in the Ahar region were flattened and at least 40
sustained damage, Reza Sedighi, the governor of Ahar county,
said in another  IRNA  report.  About 70 percent of the victims were women and children,
Bahram Samadi-Rad, head of the coroner’s office in East
Azerbaijan, said in a  Mehr  report.  The  U.S. Geological Survey  said the quakes hit within 11
minutes of each other in the late afternoon. The first had a
magnitude of 6.4 with an epicenter 12 miles (20 kilometers)
west-southwest of  Ahar . It was followed by a magnitude-6.3
temblor 19 miles west-southwest of the area. Both occurred at a
depth of less than 6.2 miles, the USGS said in advisories on its
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  