-- Irish Pull Teeth as Europe Crisis Means Dental Cutbacks
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-08-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/irish-pull-teeth-as-europe-crisis-means-dental-cutbacks.html
Pedro Ruiz of Madrid, a 29-year-old
unemployed plumber, has been putting off dental surgery to fix
his crooked teeth.  “I don’t want to spend in one visit to a dentist what it
takes me 10 days to earn,” said Ruiz.  In the midst of  Europe ’s worst financial crisis in a
generation, countless other patients are making similar
decisions across the continent, doing without everything from
checkups to tooth implants as  unemployment  has surged and
governments have reined in health spending. Many are putting
their health at risk.  Though no hard Europe-wide data on dental spending exists,
the cutbacks by governments and individuals mean oral cancers
and other illnesses won’t be spotted earlier, when they’re more
easily treatable, said Kamini Shah, honorary secretary at the
 British Association for the Study of Community Dentistry .  “The mouth is a mirror to the rest of the body,” said
Shah.  The effects of the financial crisis on dental care are also
evident for companies that supply equipment. Shares of the
world’s biggest makers of dental implants,  Nobel Biocare Holding
AG (NOBN)  and  Straumann Holding AG (STMN) , have plunged 90 percent and 67
percent, respectively, from their peaks in 2007.  Declining sales in Europe is “the new normal,” said
Ingeborg Oie, an analyst with Jefferies International Ltd.  “If Europe continues to plod along this trajectory then
we’re not going to be out of this for a few years,” she said.  Cheaper Dentures  In Spain, which has the highest  unemployment rate  among
countries using the euro at 24.8 percent, patients are choosing
cheaper, removable dentures costing a few hundred euros instead
of permanent implants that can cost thousands of euros, Manuel
“Alfonso” Villa, president of the  Spanish Dental Association 
said in a telephone interview from his clinic in Gijon, northern
 Spain .  “People are very scared about spending,” he said. “We’ve
noticed a significant slowdown since 2009, but 2011 and this
year have been disastrous.” Patients are delaying procedures
“unless it hurts too much,” he said.  Ruiz, the Spanish plumber, earned 2,500 euros ($3,070) a
month before losing his job in January. He just finished a
temporary job that paid him 1,200 euros and decided to bank it
rather than spend it on his teeth because “it’s not a life-or-
death matter.”  Heart Disease  Research has shown longer-term effects from poor dental
care. Chronic gum disease may leave the mouth more susceptible
to head and neck cancers, while persistent plaque may increase
the risk of dying early from cancer, according to studies this
year. Earlier research indicated people with severe periodontal
disease may be at increased risk for developing diabetes, and
infections around the teeth may be a signal of  heart disease .  Irish  government spending  on dental care has been reduced
by 100 million euros a year since 2010, just as the number of
people depending on state-funded care grew to cover two-thirds
of the population, according to the  Irish Dental Association.   Low-income residents who hold a medical card can get two
cavities filled per year, but no more, even if it’s an
emergency, which has patients “choosing which tooth they like
better,” Maurice Quirke, a dentist for 23 years in New Ross,
County Wexford, said by telephone.  Medical-card holders receive one  dental examination  a year,
according to the association. Twice-annual cleanings, extended
gum cleanings and X-rays are no longer covered, though unlimited
extractions are provided.  Fewer Fillings  “A lot of patients are putting off treatment that they
need,” said Quirke, owner of  Quirke Dental Surgeons . “We’re
seeing a lot more advanced gum disease, toothaches and emergency
situations, and lot more extractions, than three or four years
ago.”  Patients on government insurance now must pay for
cleanings, fillings and x-rays. Those on private insurance in
Ireland, where unemployment stands at 14.8 percent, are delaying
crowns and veneers, said Fintan Hourihan, chief executive of the
Irish Dental Association, in a phone interview. Those procedures
generally aren’t covered by insurance.  Between 2009 and 2011, the number of fillings for medical-
card patients declined 44 percent and dentures were down 28
percent, while extractions increased 11 percent, the association
said. “The state has decimated spending on dental care,”
Hourihan said.  Shuttered Practice  Paradoxically, the cutbacks have benefited  Smiles Dental , a
chain of practices in Ireland and  Northern Ireland , said Emmet
O’Neill, chief executive of the Dublin-based company. Smiles
slashed prices 30 percent to navigate the downturn and saw
business increase by 50 percent, he said.  “There’s a huge element of the Irish population that are
effectively getting their teeth pulled because they can’t afford
basic care,” he said.  Smiles has recruited some dentists whose business has dried
up. Paul O’Dwyer, 39, shuttered his dental practice in the rural
village of Newport in County Tipperary two years ago after he
began losing patients.  “I thought, would I weather the storm and would patients
return and start paying out of pocket or would I grab the bull
by the horns and shut the practice down?” he said by phone. “I
chose the last option.” O’Dwyer said he has “significant”
debt from the practice that he ran for 10 years and it may take
him another decade to pay it off.  Some patients are learning the hard way the wisdom of the
adage that cheap is expensive. Carmen Martinez, 46, of  Madrid ,
chose a temporary denture to replace three infected teeth that
were pulled, at a total cost of 400 euros. That way, she
figured, she’d avoid the expense of shelling out 1,200 euros per
tooth for permanent dental implants.  “I first thought I had saved a lot, but within weeks I
realized I was totally wrong,” she said. “It was very
unpleasant and uncomfortable and finally I had to get the
implants.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 