-- Israel to Hold Home Front Drill Amid Rise in Iran Tensions
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-08-12T10:49:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/israel-to-hold-home-front-drill-amid-rise-in-iran-tensions-2-.html
Israel ’s Home Front Command this
week will test its nationwide text-message system to alert the
public of danger, the military said, amid reports that the
country is considering a strike against  Iran .  The test would involve sending text-message warnings to
Israelis on their mobile phones, according to an e-mail sent by
the army.  “The country’s home front defense is significantly
improved,” Prime Minster  Benjamin Netanyahu  said ahead of the
weekly Cabinet meeting in comments sent by text message from his
office. “But we can’t say there are no problems because there
always are.”  Iranian officials have said that any attack against the
country’s nuclear program that the Israelis want to stop would
prompt retaliation. Iran has an arsenal of medium-range missiles
and close ties with Lebanon’s Hezbollah militia and the Hamas
movement in the  Gaza Strip , which have fired rockets against
Israel.  Israel Ziv, a major general in the reserves and former head
of the military’s operations directorate, said on  Army Radio 
that Hezbollah and Hamas would probably participate in any
Iranian retaliation and that Syria, involved in a civil
conflict, may also join in.  Window Closing?  Channel Two news said Aug. 10 that Netanyahu and Defense
Minister  Ehud Barak  see the window for striking Iran in an
effort to halt its nuclear program closing within months. The
leaders are leaning toward a strike on Iran before U.S.
elections in November despite opposition to such a move by the
security establishment, the Haaretz daily reported Aug. 10.  “Iran cannot be allowed to develop nuclear weapons,”
Netanyahu said today.  Forty percent Israelis surveyed think that  Iran’s nuclear
program  won’t be stopped without a strike and 56 percent polled
said they think the home front isn’t ready to deal with Iranian
retaliation, according to a survey published in Ma’ariv on Aug.
10. The poll surveyed 501 Israeli adults and has a margin of
error of 4.5 percentage points.  U.S. officials, concerned that a conflict could destabilize
the region and send  oil prices  soaring, had been urging caution
and pressing for increased sanctions on Iran. White House
spokesman  Jay Carney  said on Aug. 10 that the U.S. believes
“there continues to be the time and space” to pursue
diplomatic and economic sanctions against Iran.  The daily Haaretz said today that Iran was making
significant progress toward developing the components for
assembling a nuclear weapon, citing an unidentified official.  While Israel can’t allow Iran to become a nuclear power, it
should use the time now to press for tougher sanctions, Vice
Prime Minister Silvan Shalom said on Army Radio.  Stronger restrictions “could be a determining factor in
bringing down the Iranian regime and perhaps bring it to abandon
the nuclear program,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  