-- James Joins Jordan in Basketball Sweep as U.S. Takes Gold Medal
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-08-12T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/james-joins-jordan-in-basketball-sweep-as-u-s-takes-gold-medal.html
Life couldn’t get much better for
 LeBron James .  The forward from the  National Basketball Association ’s
Miami Heat yesterday joined  Michael Jordan  in completing a sweep
of titles available to him in one season. He added the Olympic
gold medal to last season’s NBA championship, along with the
Most Valuable Player awards for the regular season and the
league finals against the Oklahoma City Thunder.  James scored 19 points to cap the U.S.’s second successive
Olympic-final victory against  Spain . The Thunder’s  Kevin Durant 
scored a game-high 30 points in the 107-100 victory in London.
 Pau Gasol  of the  Los Angeles Lakers  led Spain with 24 points.
Durant finished as the tournament’s top scorer with 156 points.  “I’ve been with LeBron since 2006, I’ve seen him grow, he
is the best player,” U.S. coach  Mike Krzyzewski  told reporters
at the North Greenwich Arena. “We have developed a close bond
as I rely on him to be this player for me, and he is. I love my
relationship with him.”  The two came together as the U.S. tried to rebound from the
country’s first failure to win a men’s basketball title at the
Olympics since the U.S. started selecting professional players
in 1992. James was part of the team that lost in the 2004
semifinals to  Argentina .  “We made that three-year commitment from ’05 and we just
tried to get better each and every summer,” said James, 27.
“It’s been a long road for USA Basketball. I’m happy to be in
position I still have something to do with us being back on top,
because that’s what it’s all about.”  Star Crowd  The crowd, including former English national-team soccer
player  David Beckham  and actor and one-time California Governor
 Arnold Schwarzenegger , watched a tight game. Spain led 67-64 in
the third quarter and trailed by one point as the final period
began, before James helped the Americans outscore their opponent
24-18 in the final 10 minutes. He scored five consecutive points
in the final three minutes, including a 3-pointer over  Marc Gasol  that effectively took the game away from the Spaniards.  “It was a big shot, but there was a lot of big shots in
our game, not just mine,” said James. “There was a bunch of
big plays offensively and defensively.”  The U.S. hit 15 of 37 3-point shots, while Spain made just
seven of 19 in a game that was marked by physical play and
constant stops for fouls in the first half.  “I think the officials controlled the pace, to be honest
with you,” said  Kobe Bryant , the 33-year-old Lakers shooting
guard who scored 17 points for the U.S.. “The first half was
extremely choppy for both teams. Both teams had to adjust to
it.”  Biggest Win  Bryant said the success was his greatest with the U.S. team
because it was his last Olympics. He said he won’t be part of
the effort to get a third straight gold in  Rio de Janeiro  in
2016.  “I’m definitely not going to play, so it holds a little
bit more significance I think,” Bryant said.  The players saluted the efforts of Krzyzewski. Since
joining in October 2005, the 65-year-old Duke University coach’s
record with the national team is 62-1, the lone loss coming at
the 2006 world championships to  Greece .  “He’s been brilliant, he communicates very well, he
communicates accurately and he’s fun,” said Bryant. “He has a
sense of humor, he doesn’t take himself too seriously and we all
have enjoyed him immensely.”  Spain, led by Pau Gasol and 21 points from captain Juan-
Carlos Navarro, caused problems for a U.S. team that had won
seven straight games in the tournament by an average of 36
points.  “Go out there and do what you’ve been doing the entire
tournament,” was Krzyzewski’s message to his team when it led
by one point at halftime, according to Bryant.  Spanish Pressure  The Los Angeles Clippers’  Chris Paul , 27, scored to give
the U.S. an advantage early in the fourth quarter. Spain kept
coming back as the intensity continued to build. Pau Gasol, the
tournament’s third-highest scorer with 153 points, had to leave
the court after James’s flailing hand caught him in the right
eye.  “We got to the fourth quarter with a few of our best
players a little tired,” Spanish coach Sergio Scariolo told
reporters. “We did a good job in making them try to change
their rhythm. Some situations were better, some were worse, but
at the end of the day we could slow them down a bit.”  James and Bryant combined for nine points down the stretch,
allowing Krzyzewski to clear his bench in the closing seconds as
the U.S. won its last gold of the  London  Olympics. The Americans
finished atop the standings with 46 golds and 104 medals in
total. China was second with 38 golds among its 87 medals.  “We have an incredible team, we love when it gets tight,”
James said. “That’s when our will and determination shows. It
was the same in 2008 when we played against those guys, who are
a great team and much respect to them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  