-- Kevin Pietersen Omitted From England Squad for South Africa Test
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-08-12T15:11:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/kevin-pietersen-omitted-from-england-squad-for-south-africa-test.html
Kevin Pietersen  has been left out of
 England ’s squad for the third cricket Test against  South Africa 
at Lord’s, only a day after the batsman committed himself to the
team following a wrangle over his international future.  Pietersen, 32, last week questioned whether he’d continue
with the national team after the current series. In an interview
on YouTube yesterday he said he’d had a “change of heart” and
wanted to represent England in all three forms of the sport.
Previously he said he wanted to give up 50-over internationals.  The England and Wales Cricket Board said today it has held
“several discussions” with the South African-born player but
has been unable to reach an agreement with Pietersen on his
inclusion. It said one sticking point was that Pietersen is yet
to confirm publicly that he didn’t send derogatory  text messages 
about England to South Africa players, as media reports said.  “The success of the England team has been built on a unity
of purpose and trust,” Hugh Morris, managing director of
England cricket, said in the statement. “Whilst we have made
every attempt to find a solution to enable Kevin to be selected
we have sadly had to conclude that, in the best interest of the
team, he will miss the Lord’s Test.”  England needs to win the final match to tie the series and
retain its No. 1 Test ranking. South Africa won the first match
at the Oval in  London  by an innings and 12 runs, while the
second game at Headingley in Leeds was a draw.  Jonny Bairstow comes into the squad for the third Test and
will play if England maintains its recent policy of selecting
six batsmen and four frontline bowlers.  ‘Obstacles’  On May 31, Pietersen said he’d only play Test match cricket
in future. He wanted to pull out of 50-over one-day
internationals and carry on with Tests and Twenty20s but ECB
contracts don’t allow that.  Pietersen said last week his “obstacles” to playing for
England were not about money, but that there were issues within
the dressing room he had to address.  Subsequently it was reported that he had sent texts to
South African players during the Headingley Test, which the
 Daily Mail  said contained “less than flattering” comments
about captain  Andrew Strauss  and his teammates.  The ECB said it gave Pietersen an additional six hours
today to provide a solution, including the chance for him to
make a public comment about the texts.  The third Test starts Aug. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 