-- Nebraska Leads States Courting China as Congress Fights on Trade
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-08-12T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/nebraska-leads-states-courting-china-as-congress-fights-on-trade.html
State leaders are ignoring the anti-
China rhetoric from the U.S. Congress and presidential
candidates as they pursue investments by companies in the
world’s second-largest economy at a pace that may accelerate.  Five governors, including Nebraska’s Dave Heineman, a
Republican, and Arkansas’s Mike Beebe, a Democrat, joined trade
missions to China this year, with more planned next month,
according to the U.S.-China Business Council, a Washington-based
group for companies such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  that do business in China.  “Our goal is to generate new markets for many Nebraska
products and our hope is to attract Chinese companies that want
to expand into the American market,” Heineman  told  constituents
July 27 before visiting three Chinese cities including Shanghai,
where the state will open a trade office.  Competition for clean-energy goods and disputes over
China’s currency have escalated trade tensions between the
nations, leading President Barack Obama and Republican
presidential candidate Mitt Romney to pledge tough action over
China’s trade policies. China’s Wanxiang Group Corp.’s
investment in U.S. lithium-ion battery maker  A123 Systems Inc. (AONE) 
drew opposition from Representative Cliff Stearns, a Florida
Republican, who cited national-security threats.  Chinese foreign direct investment is on the rise,
increasing 18 percent in 2011 from the previous year to $3.8
billion, representing 0.2 percent of all such investment,
according to the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis. Total foreign
investment in the U.S. was $2.5 trillion.  ‘Ticked Up’  “It would make sense if Chinese investment in the U.S.
ticked up,”  Nancy McLernon , chief executive officer of the
Washington-based Organization for International Investment,
which represents U.S. operations of foreign-based companies,
said in a phone interview. Governors seeking economic growth
“know that many non-traditional investors have capital to
spend,” she said. “China is certainly one of them.”  China was the destination this year for Republican
governors Dennis Daugaard of  South Dakota  and C.L. “Butch”
Otter of Idaho, and Democrat  Mark Dayton  of Minnesota, according
to the business council. Connecticut’s  Dan Malloy , a Democrat,
as well as Republican  Rick Snyder  of Michigan and Brian Sandoval
of Nevada are scheduled to visit next month, the group said.  ‘Very Beginning’  “We’re at the very beginning, and we should expect quite a
bit of growth,” in Chinese investment in the U.S.,  Daniel Rosen , a partner at the Rhodium Group, a New York-based economic
research firm that specializes in China, said in a phone
interview.  Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick, a Democrat who led a
trade mission in 2007 that focused on clean energy, life
sciences, education and transportation, is monitoring the
investment in Waltham, Massachusetts-based A123 “very
closely,” Krista Selmi, a spokeswoman for the governor, said in
a phone interview.  The Chinese investment will help preserve U.S. jobs, Chief
Executive Officer  David Vieau  said in a phone interview Aug. 9.
The company, which won a $249.1 million federal grant to build a
U.S. factory, had 955 U.S. employees at the end of last year,
about 48 percent of its global workforce, according to a
regulatory filing.  China has become Nebraska’s second most-active foreign
investor since 2009. During Heineman’s mission, the University
of Nebraska Medical Center, which developed a nutritional
supplement for weightlifters, and Nebraska-based
manufacturer Vireo Resources LLC signed a deal to distribute the
product in China, according to a statement on the governor’s
website.  Arkansas, Delaware  An Arkansas delegation in April met with companies,
including auto-parts makers and durable goods manufacturers,
that are looking to invest in the U.S. within five years, said
Grant Tennille, executive director of the state’s Economic
Development Commission.  “Arkansas’s reputation preceded it” when officials from
the home state of former President  Bill Clinton  and Walmart met
with Chinese executives, Tennille said. “They knew Walmart and
they knew the Clintons.”  Delaware Governor Jack Markell, a Democrat, held an event
in the state with Chinese business leaders in January 2011 to
lure investment. Virginia Governor  Bob McDonnell , a Republican,
visited China last year to promote economic ties.  Economic Incentives  China’s investment in industrialized countries picked up
about three years ago, and is “mostly due to the changing
economic conditions at home in China,” Rhodium’s Rosen said. He
cited increasing competition among Chinese companies and rising
operating and compliance costs.  State-owned and closely held companies have made 591 U.S.
investments worth $20.9 billion since 2000, according to
Rhodium’s  China Investment Monitor . California, New York and
Texas have been the biggest beneficiaries of the spending.
Investment in U.S. fossil-fuel and chemical companies account
for about 40 percent of all Chinese investment in the U.S.,
according to Rhodium.  Chinese companies such as Huawei Technologies Co., a
telecommunications provider, computer maker  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) 
and  Qingdao Haier Co. (600690) , which makes appliances like washing
machines and refrigerators, are already operating in the U.S. In
April, China Petrochemical Corp. completed its $2.5 billion
purchase of a stake in  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)  of Oklahoma City.  A123 Customer  Wanxiang in February announced plans to invest $25 million
in Smith Electric Vehicles Corp., an A123 customer in Kansas
City, Missouri.  A proposal by government-owned energy company  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  to
pay $15.1 billion for Canada’s  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , which operates in the
U.S. portion of the Gulf of Mexico, led Representative  Edward Markey  of Massachusetts and Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York,
both Democrats, to call for close scrutiny of the deal.  The Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S., a multi-
agency group led by the Treasury Department, reviews mergers and
acquisitions for national-security concerns when a takeover may
give a foreign owner control of a U.S. company.  While filings are voluntary, the committee can begin its
own review. By law the filings can’t be disclosed, according to
Kara Alaimo, a Treasury Department spokeswoman.  The committee examined 313 potential transactions, filed by
the companies, from 2008 to 2010, including 91 from the U.K., 25
from France and 24 each from Canada and Israel, according to the
most recent CFIUS annual report. It reviewed 16 transactions
from  China , half in the manufacturing industry.  The Treasury Department “does not comment on information
relating to specific CFIUS cases, including whether or not
certain parties have filed notices for review,” Alaimo said in
an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  