-- N.Z. Bonds Seen as Safe by China Investors, English Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-08-13T01:31:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/new-zealand-bonds-seen-as-safe-by-china-investors-english-says.html
New Zealand ’s bond market is
attractive to investors from  China  and other nations as the
economy shows signs of stability and moderate growth, Finance
Minister  Bill English  said.  “New Zealand is seen as a relatively safe haven in these
difficult times and Chinese authorities want to diversify their
international bond holdings,” English said in a  speech  to a
conference on China in Wellington today. “China is also
investing in New Zealand  government bonds , contributing to
record-low borrowing rates New Zealand currently enjoys.”  New Zealand’s dollar has gained 4.3 percent this year, the
best-performing Group of 10 currency, and reached a three-month
high of 82.24 U.S. cents on Aug. 6. Overseas investors owned 62
percent of government bonds on issue in June, up from 59 percent
in December, according to central bank figures.  New Zealand and Australia are attractive destinations for
debt investors because the countries are politically stable and
have some reasonable prospects of economic growth, English said.  “As long as that is the case, we are going to be the least
ugly in a beauty parade of developed economies, none of which
look too good,” he told reporters after the speech. A recording
of his comments was published by  interest.co.nz .  New Zealand should build on a strong trading connection to
encourage investment both to and from China, English said in
today’s speech. China was New Zealand’s 11th-largest source of
foreign direct investment last year, while it is the 13th-
biggest investment destination. By comparison, China is New
Zealand’s largest trading partner after Australia.  Prime Minister John Key’s government needs to find buyers
for NZ$13.5 billion ($11 billion) of bonds in the year ending
June 30, 2013. The government’s target is to return to a  budget
surplus  by 2014-15. That will reduce the supply of bonds, which
may slow demand for the currency, English said.  “We would prefer that the  New Zealand dollar  was a bit
lower so we could get the rebalancing in the economy moving with
a bit more momentum,” he told reporters. “It’s a continued
challenge for exporters to be profitable at 80 cents.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  