-- Now Pouring at Fashion Site Vente-Privee: Online Wine
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-08-12T22:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/now-pouring-at-fashion-site-vente-privee-online-wine.html
Jacques-Antoine Granjon has made
millions selling high fashion at cut-rate prices online. Now,
the French entrepreneur with a rock-star-like image, who
recently appeared with Iggy Pop in a promotional video, wants to
do the same with wine.  Vente-Privee.com, the Web retailer Granjon founded in 2001,
has become France’s biggest online seller of wine, and last
month it started exporting discounted bottles to Germany and
 Spain . The entrepreneur, who turned 50 on Aug. 9, is betting
steep markdowns on Bordeaux and Burgundies will appeal to
consumers even as they cut spending amid austerity.  “The Internet started with finance and sex, that’s what
got people addicted,” Granjon said while lounging on a leather
couch in his art-filled office outside Paris. “We keep people
coming back by surprising them with great brands at incredible
prices.”  Revenue at the closely held company, which operates in
eight European countries and the U.S., climbed 14 percent to 1.1
billion euros ($1.36 billion) last year, while Europe’s largest
retailer,  Carrefour SA (CA) , saw declining sales in the region.  That strength in  tough economic times  indicates that
Europeans will still spend on luxury if the price is right.
Consumer sales online in  Europe  grew 19 percent to 246 billion
euros, surpassing  North America ’s 237 billion euros, according
to Web retailer trade association Emota.  $10,000 Watch  The success of Vente-Privee, which gets as many daily
visitors in France as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , is attracting interest
from investors, though Granjon declined to name them. He says
the company is profitable and generates enough cash to finance
its projects. For now, an initial public offering isn't in the 
cards, he says, as the group focuses on establishing the U.S.
venture.  Where Vente-Privee differs from other discounters is how
and what it sells. Granjon calls Amazon “the WalMart of the
Web” because of its wide array of products. Vente-Privee, by
contrast, specializes in what it considers higher-end goods
ranging from  Huggies (KMB)  diapers to Armani handbags and Chronoswiss
watches that can fetch $10,000-plus in stores. The company seeks
to restore the appeal of surplus merchandise by repackaging it
with fresh photo and video advertisements, and listing each item
for just a few days.  The tactic, Granjon says, helps “feed the brand,” giving
visitors -- 1.3 million daily in the first quarter, according to
e-commerce association  Fevad  -- a reason to come back to browse
for deals.  Sommeliers  Offering discounts of 40 percent to 50 percent on wines
such as Louis Latour Grand Cru Charmes-Chambertin 2003 Burgundy
and Chateau Rollan de By Medoc Cru Bourgeois 2008 Bordeaux is a
natural extension of that, Granjon said. Vente-Privee says it
sold 2 million bottles in  France  last year, for total wine
revenues of 20 million euros.  “Wine is emotional,” said Granjon, who hired sommeliers
from the Hotel Crillon on the Place de la Concorde and the
Michel Rostang restaurant (two Michelin stars) in Paris’ 17th
arrondissement to handpick bottles. “It’s the sun, the work of
men, the soil. It becomes really exceptional when we put a
discount price on it.”  Granjon’s success will depend on whether more European
consumers add wine to their online shopping list. While about
half of e-shoppers bought trips and clothing or fashion
accessories, only 16 percent purchased food or wine online in
the past six months, according to Fevad.  Low Risk  Still, for Vente-Privee, the risk is low. It only buys and
takes receipt of goods once customers have paid for them. And
its discounts are open for limited periods, usually about three
days, so if a product isn’t selling, Granjon’s team of 1,500
employees can easily pull it from the site in favor of more
appealing merchandise.  “Their clients are fairly well off, and they’re willing to
log on at midnight because they’re so anxious about missing a
good deal,” said Sophie Pernet-Lubrano, an analyst at research
firm  Idate Digiworld  in Montpellier, France.  For winemakers, Vente-Privee provides new buyers for excess
inventory and helps drive full-price sales.  “It’s really a marketing campaign -- we’re shipping out
paid samples, not discounted products,” said Michel Chapoutier,
a winemaker in the  Rhone Valley . “People then recognize our
brand on wine lists in restaurants, or call us to order another
case.”  U.S. Barriers  Things may prove more complicated in the U.S., which Vente-
Privee entered in November through a joint-venture with credit
card company  American Express Co. (AXP)  Laws governing wine sales
there are determined by the states, some of which have banned
shipments of alcohol from out-of-state.  For now, Granjon is focused on pitching discounted fashion
to Americans. In that, Vente-Privee, which pioneered the flash-
sale model in France, will be up against long-established rivals
like Gilt Groupe Inc. and Rue La La, as well as Amazon’s
myhabit.com.  “It’s a crowded space,” said Gene Alvarez, a research
vice president at Gartner. “Consumers in the U.S. already have
so many ways of finding deals on a daily basis, Vente-Privee’s
challenge will be getting known as the place to go for a really
cool buy.”  Plans to sell the company or seek a stock market listing
will depend on whether Granjon can outmaneuver his U.S.
competitors and convince Americans that his site offers better
deals.  “Americans are used to discounts, but they like buying and
they’re not scared of the future,” Granjon said. “We’re going
to be creative and bring brands that are very exclusive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  