-- Obama’s 5 Chicago Fundraisers Give Chance to Assess Ryan
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-08-12T14:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/obama-s-5-chicago-fundraisers-give-chance-to-assess-ryan.html
President  Barack Obama  will have his
first chance to publicly assess the newly completed Republican
ticket at a series of fundraisers today in his adopted hometown
of Chicago.  Obama’s events, including one at his home on the city’s
south side, are his first public appearances since Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  announced his selection of
seven-term Representative  Paul Ryan  as his running mate, a
decision that will change the dynamics of the presidential race
in its closing months.  The Obama campaign has had months of practice criticizing
Ryan and his alternative to the president’s budget, which would
cut  government spending  and overhaul U.S. entitlements,
eventually transitioning Medicare into a voucher system.  “The interesting question is, does this make the debate
about the future as envisioned by Ryan instead of the future
envisioned by Romney?” said Kathleen Hall Jamieson, a professor
at the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Annenberg School for
Communication in Philadelphia.  Obama today is opening up his home for the first time in
his re-election campaign for one of five fundraisers today as he
seeks to bring in between $3.5 million and $4 million for his
race against Romney.  Every Dollar  “This is the newest, exclusive right of the fundraiser: to
get to go to the president’s old home in Chicago,” said  Julian Zelizer , a history and public affairs professor at  Princeton
University  in  New Jersey . “The pressures increased, so the
interest to raise the money increases, so you do everything
possible to get that last dollar.”  The two candidates are capping a week of sharp attacks by
embarking on dueling bus trips through crucial electoral swing
states. Obama will spend three days campaigning in Iowa starting
tomorrow and Romney is visiting Virginia, North Carolina,
Florida and Ohio, states Obama won in 2008, on his bus tour
which kicked off yesterday.  Guests attending the fundraiser at Obama’s home will pay
$40,000 each, according to an Obama campaign official.  Bill Allison , editorial director of the Sunlight
Foundation, a pro-disclosure group based in  Washington , said
he’s not surprised by the choice of venue.  Campaign Marketing  “Obama’s campaign has marketed fundraisers in all
different kinds of ways, everything from the $3 a pop to win a
chance to have dinner with the president to the extremes of
opening up his own home,” he said. “I just can’t think of a
better way to gain access to somebody than to say: ‘Meet with me
in my home.’”  Romney and aligned party committees raised more money than
Obama and Democrats for the third straight month in July: the
Republicans brought in more than $101.3 million in July, while
Obama and Democratic committees exceeded $75 million.  Ryan could help Romney raise even more funds as one of the
top political fundraisers in Congress. Ryan has more than $5.4
million in his campaign account, about $2 million more than the
next highest House member, according to Federal Election
Commission data.  Obama has held 201 fundraisers for his re-election campaign
and the DNC in 2011 and 2012 so far. At the same point eight
years ago, then-President  George W. Bush , a Republican, had done
78 such fundraisers.  Multiple Fundraisers  Earlier in the day Obama will attend a small roundtable in
downtown Chicago with tickets running $40,000 a person. Then he
will attend a lower dollar event where tickets start at $51 a
person, followed by the $40,000 a person event at his home. He
will cap off the day with two fundraisers at other private homes
in Chicago: the first with tickets starting at $5,000 and the
final fundraiser of the day with tickets costing $1,000 each.  Sunday’s fundraising is not a record for single-day
fundraising events, according to Brendan Doherty, a U.S. Naval
Academy political science professor who writes about fundraisers
in his book, “The Rise of the President’s Permanent Campaign.”  According to Doherty, Obama set the record two months ago.
On June 1 the president held six fundraisers in San Francisco
and  Los Angeles  and on June 12 he held six fundraisers in
Baltimore and Philadelphia. The fundraising spree broke the
record of five fundraisers in a day set by former President
 George H.W. Bush  on October 23, 1990, followed by former
President  Bill Clinton  on October 4, 2000 and October 22, 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Chicago at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  