-- Obama Calls Ryan ‘Ideological Leader’ of Republican Congress
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-08-12T23:56:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/obama-calls-ryan-ideological-leader-of-republican-congress-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  called
Representative  Paul Ryan  the “ideological leader” of
congressional Republicans as he welcomed him to the election
campaign.  “I congratulate Congressman Ryan, I know him, I welcome
him to the race,” Obama said to boos from a crowd of supporters
during his first public comments since presumptive Republican
nominee  Mitt Romney  named Ryan as his running mate.
“Congressman Ryan is a decent man, he is a family man, he’s an
articulate spokesman for Governor Romney’s vision. But it’s a
vision that I fundamentally disagree with.”  Obama made the remarks at the second of five fundraisers in
his adopted hometown of Chicago. The addition of Ryan, a seven-
term congressman, to the Republican ticket changes the dynamics
of the presidential race in its closing months and give Obama
the opportunity to sharpen the lines of attack on taxes and the
role of government that he’s already using against Romney.  Ryan’s alternative to the president’s budget presents a
stark contrast between the two parties, cutting  government
spending , overhauling U.S. entitlements, and eventually
transitioning Medicare into a voucher system.  “Top down economics is central to Governor Romney and it
is central to his running mate,” Obama said.  Home Fundraiser  Obama opened his Hyde Park home for the first time in the
re-election cycle for the third of a series of five fundraisers
today. He told donors who paid $40,000 a ticket that the
campaign will be intense through the November election.  “This is not going to be a race like Usain Bolt, where
we’re like 40 yards ahead and we can just kind of start jogging
10 feet before the finish line,” Obama said, referring to the
Jamaican Olympic sprinter who won three gold medals at the games
in  London . “We’re going to have to run through the tape.”  As he stood on the front lawn of his three story red brick
home located on a leafy street he made an appeal to his donors:
“Now is the time to double down.”  Democrat Obama already has sought to tie Romney to Ryan’s
fiscal proposals, which the former Massachusetts governor has
endorsed. Still, the Republican vice presidential candidate
probably won’t become a major part of the president’s stump
speech.  Appeal to Supporters  At the earlier event, where about 1,000 people paid at
least $51 per person, Obama said Romney, Ryan and Republicans in
Congress “believe that if we just get rid of more regulations
on big corporations and we give more tax breaks to the
wealthiest Americans it will lead to jobs and prosperity for
everybody else.” Obama said their approach is destined to fail.  Earlier in the day Obama attended a small roundtable which
was closed to the press in downtown  Chicago  with tickets running
$40,000 a person. He will cap off the day with two fundraisers
at other private homes in Chicago: the first with tickets
starting at $5,000 and the final fundraiser of the day with
tickets costing $1,000 each.  Obama is seeking to bring in between $3.5 and $4 million
for his re-election campaign with the events.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Chicago at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  