-- Homebuilder Stocks Surge With New Sales 50% Below Average
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-08-12T23:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/homebuilder-stocks-surge-with-new-sales-50-below-average.html
U.S. homebuilder  shares  are
appreciating at a record rate this year, reflecting confidence
the housing rebound from a six-year slump can accelerate with
new-home sales still 50 percent below the 40-year average.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilder Index of
11 companies has climbed  53 percent  this year through Aug. 10,
compared with a  12 percent  gain for the broader  S&P 500 Index. (SPX) 
Builders, including  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)  and  D.R. Horton Inc. (DHI) , are
raising prices in markets with limited inventory and targeting
move-up buyers with more money for down payments and better
access to credit than first-time purchasers.  “We’re getting more activity, more traffic and even
pricing has begun to improve,” said Jason Benowitz, portfolio
manager for Roosevelt Investments in  New York , which holds an
almost 2 percent stake in  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  “If the economy can
muddle along, then we think housing will continue to be a bright
spot. And the homebuilder stocks have room to run from here.”  Shares rallied as new homes sold at a seasonally adjusted
annual rate of 350,000 in June, about half the 40-year average,
according to Commerce Department data. That’s still an
improvement over 304,000 in June 2011 -- enough to help engender
a big rebound for homebuilders, which underperformed the  S&P 500 
from 2005 through 2011.  PulteGroup has jumped  98 percent  this year, Lennar is up 59
percent,  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  rose  49 percent  and D.R. Horton has
increased  43 percent .  87-Percent Decline  The annual equivalent returns for the S&P homebuilding
index so far in 2012 would be more than 100 percent -- the best
for any year in data going back to 1995. The index lost 87
percent from a peak in 2005 to its low in November 2008.  “Sales are a long way from where they were, even if you
take out the bubble and look at more normal housing cycles,”
said Doug Duncan, chief economist at Washington-based  Fannie
Mae . “While we’re still below a level you would expect to see,
we’re on the right direction.”  Single-family construction currently accounts for just a
fraction of the  0.22 percentage point  that housing adds to gross
domestic product. Still, it influences a large basket of other
businesses with broad impact on economic growth, including
 Lowe’s Cos. (LOW)  and other home-furnishings retailers, and building
suppliers such as  Owens Corning Inc. (OC)   USG Corp. (USG) , which manufactures gypsum wallboard, and  Fortune
Brands Home & Security Inc. (FBHS) , maker of kitchen cabinetry,
plumbing products, doors and windows, already are getting a
boost from all the building, said Bob Wetenhall, a homebuilder
analyst for  RBC Capital Markets  in New York.  50-Year Low  Single-family  starts  hit a 50-year high of 1.8 million in
January 2006 as  home prices  rose, then sank to a 50-year low by
March 2009. After unsteady growth since then, starts have risen
in four consecutive months for the first time since 2010.  “For the building-product guys, it’s tremendous,”
Wetenhall said. “There’s a lot of fixed costs, and if you get
volume, you absorb costs over a large number of units.”  Fortune Brands’ sales jumped 5 percent to $935 million in
the second quarter compared with a year earlier on the strength
of new-home construction, the Deerfield, Illinois-based company
said July 26.  Residential building also benefits rail and trucking
companies, contributes to federal and local tax coffers and
boosts spending by buyers eager to furnish, decorate and equip
their new home. Consumers spend between $6,000 and $8,000 on
such products when they buy a house, according to the  National
Association of Home Builders .  Pent-Up Demand  “We’re going back to tradition with the pent-up demand
that you typically would get with the recession,” said  David Crowe , chief economist of the Washington-based homebuilders
association. “Housing is often the spark in a recovery. We see
the potential for it igniting momentum.”  For half a century,  housing  was the tonic that helped
restore the ailing economy after slumps. Apartments and new and
existing homes added 0.26 percentage point on average to the
quarterly growth rate during all expansions since World War II,
according to a Fannie Mae analysis. Single-family construction
accounted for more than half the contribution before the 18-
month recession that ended in June 2009. Now new homes represent
about a third.  “It’s been a very unusual recovery in that housing has not
participated at all,” said Mike Thaman, president and chief
executive officer of Owens Corning, based in Toledo,  Ohio . It’s
now “starting to become a part of the economy and maybe some
economic growth.”  Rebound Test  The rebound still is being tested by weak job gains, a
backlog of foreclosures and tight mortgage lending. The rate of
new-home sales slowed in June by more than 8 percent from the
previous month, the largest decline since February 2011.  Unemployment remained  above 8 percent  in July for the 42nd
consecutive month, and mortgage  delinquencies  climbed for the
first time in a year in the second quarter. While foreclosures
are declining, there were 53 percent more filings in 2011 than
2006. Lenders are requiring the highest credit scores in at
least a decade to approve home loans.  “I’m concerned that while there can be growth, the pace
isn’t going to be as sharp as some people expect, given the job
environment and the difficult mortgage qualifying,” said Adam Rudiger, an analyst with  Wells Fargo & Co . in  San Francisco .  Homebuilders are looking past all this to prepare for a
boom in demand. The 6.6-month supply of existing homes listed
for sale in June -- down from 9.1 months a year earlier -- is
driving buyers to new construction.  Aging Stock  Between 1.7 million and 1.8 million new houses are needed a
year to accommodate  population growth  and replace aging stock;
last year brought fewer than 700,000 single-family
groundbreakings. Inventories are back to 2006 levels, according
to the National Association of Realtors.  While  interest rates  are near record lows and rental
vacancies hit a 10-year trough of  8.6 percent  in June,
homebuilders are benefiting most from the low level of
inventory, PulteGroup Chief Executive Officer  Richard Dugas  said
in a July 26 earnings call.  Demand in the last quarter exceeded the Bloomfield Hills,
Michigan-based company’s expectations, “a dramatic change from
just a year ago,” Dugas said. “Consumers do not have a lot of
choices, as many of the newer existing homes are often in the
wrong location, while older homes are not always in great
condition.”  ‘Meaningful Weakness’  Even so, “many of the macro drivers of demand really
haven’t changed all that much,” he said. The most recent
consumer sentiment numbers “showed  meaningful weakness , with
most of the overall decline being in how consumers viewed future
prospects for the national economy,” and there are “growing
concerns over singular events ranging from a European meltdown
to fiscal cliffs” -- which include the expiration of tax cuts
at year-end.  One bright spot is a rebound in some of the hardest-hit
housing markets, including Las Vegas, where a diminished
inventory of homes for sale helped boost starts by 62 percent in
the second quarter from a year earlier, said Greg Gross,
director of the Nevada region for Metrostudy, a Houston-based
firm that tracks construction.  Seeing more buyers going after fewer homes, Roosevelt
Investments said in March that it increased its position in
Miami-based Lennar by more than 422,000 shares and  D.R. Horton ,
in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , by almost 740,000 shares, to about 1.5
percent.  Buyer Pool  And the pool of buyers will increase as homeowners who lost
properties through foreclosure a few years ago rebuild their
credit and return to the market, Benowitz said. “The whole
thesis behind this is new-home construction is at record low
levels and is turning.”  With more demand and less supply, the median price of an
existing single-family home in the second quarter rose 7.3
percent from a year earlier to $181,500. The gain was the
strongest annual increase since early 2006, according to the
National Association of Realtors.  Standard Pacific Corp. (SPF) , based in Irvine,  California , has
raised prices in more than 70 communities and cut incentives to
the lowest in more than three years, and buyers continue to
come, Chief Financial Officer Jeffrey McCall said on a July 27
earnings call.  “Our traffic levels are still up,” McCall said. “That’s
our best forward indicator.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  