-- Orwell Blasts Top 1%, Ponders German Conquest in Diaries
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-08-12T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/orwell-blasts-top-1-ponders-german-conquest-in-diaries-.html
George Orwell  died in January
1950, two years and a month after finishing “ 1984 ”; he was
only 46. More than six decades later, his complete  diaries 
are being published in the U.S. for the first time.  Why did it take so long? A typical entry, from October
1939, offers a hint:  “Rather cold, violent wind. Picked up the first ripe
walnut today. There are very few, however. Spread the
manure. Hoed leeks. Spring cabbages have not taken root
very well, owing to the drought. Uprooted the onions, which
are very poor.”  Many readers may not be aware that Orwell was a small
farmer. But as I read one weather and crop report after
another, all I could think of was the Woody Allen parody
that begins, “Venal & Sons has at last published the long-
awaited first volume of Metterling’s laundry lists.”  So, then, do these diaries matter?  They matter a lot, for two long sections. The first
records Orwell’s researches into the lives of the poor. In
1931 he worked as an itinerant hop picker, faking a Cockney
accent in order to fit in.  Five years later he traveled to the coal-mining areas
of northwest  England , making entries on the awful food --
“Lancashire method of eating tripe (cold with vinegar)
horrible” -- the blackening coal dust, the bad smell of the
houses and the terrible conditions in the mines.  Leftist Hero  The book that resulted, “ The Road to Wigan Pier ”
(1937), combined his report on the miners’ misery with his
defense of socialism and became one of the works that would
make Orwell a hero to the anti-Stalinist left.  (In an introduction, the late  Christopher Hitchens 
points out that the book became the target of “a successful
Communist campaign to defame it (and him) for saying that
‘the working classes smell.’”)  The second great stretch comprises the diaries Orwell
kept before and during World War II. They re-create,
vividly and rivetingly, the fog of war.  May 30, 1940: “There is good reason to think that the
invasion of England may be attempted within a few days, and
all the papers are saying this.”  June 16, 1940: “It is impossible even yet to decide
what to do in the case of German conquest of England.”  Lady Oxford  Angrily quoting Lady Oxford’s complaint to the  Daily
Telegraph  that “most people” have had to “part with their
cooks and live in hotels,” he sets down a sentence that
resonates in 2012: “Apparently nothing will ever teach
these people that the other 99 percent of the population
exist.”  In August 1941 Orwell began working for the  BBC 
(“something halfway between a girls’ school and a lunatic
asylum”), a job that led him to observe, “All propaganda is
lies, even when one is telling the truth. I don’t think
this matters so long as one knows what one is doing, and
why.”  Even in the midst of the Blitz (he writes of
“sheltering in a doorway in Piccadilly from falling
shrapnel, just as one might shelter from a cloudburst”), he
is disgusted by political falsehoods: “We are all drowning
in filth.”  As for civilian casualties: “In a year’s time you’ll
see headlines in the  Daily Express : ‘Successful Raid on
Berlin Orphanage. Babies Set on Fire.’”  Orwell’s achievement grew out of seemingly modest
virtues: decency; good, hard sense; and clean, clear prose.
Yet they added up to something monumental. His garden
reports may be skimmable, but the diaries as a whole do
exactly what you would expect: They confirm his greatness.  “Diaries,” edited by Peter Davison, is published by
Liveright (597 pages, $39.95). To buy this book in  North
America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 