-- Portugal’s Vinho Verde Offers Crisp Whites, Exotic Reds
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2012-08-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/portugal-s-vinho-verde-offers-crisp-whites-exotic-reds.html
Portugal ’s light, zesty Vinho Verde
has been compared to a dive into a cold pool and a spin along a
beach road in an open white convertible. As a car, it’s no
Porsche, as these whites typically cost about 10 bucks.  I’ve always thought of the best ones as fresh, simple,
slightly spritzy low-alcohol wines ideal for washing down
steamed clams on a hot August night.  I’ve also experienced Vinho Verde at its worst: a bit like
water with a hefty squeeze of tart lemon and a touch of
bubblegum sweetness.  So the quality of wines I tasted on my recent tour of this
tranquil, rural region in the country’s northwest came as a
major surprise. Not only did I find small producers making
excellent, intriguing, even complex whites in diverse styles,
but also vibrant, exotic reds. So much for vinous stereotypes.  Even on a warm day, the gently rolling landscape of Vinho
Verde looks very, very green, thanks to nearly 60 inches of
annual rainfall, almost double  Napa Valley ’s. That verdancy is
the origin of the region’s name, though some say it refers to
the wine’s bright acidity.  Vinho Verde hugs the Atlantic coastline between the Douro
river to the south and the Minho river to the north, and boasts
25,500 growers. Only 600 of them make wine.  Greek Goddess  One of most fascinating is vintner Vasco Croft, owner of
 Quinta do Casal do Paco  near the Lima River. He produces wines
under the Aphros brand, named for Greek goddess Aphrodite. (The
spelling was changed from Afros with vintage 2011.)  Laid-back in torn jeans and an un-tucked blue shirt, 49-
year-old Croft walks me around the 20-hectare property his
family has owned for generations.  Since 2002, he’s turned it into Vinho Verde’s only
certified biodynamic estate. When he took over, the barrels in
the cellar under the house were rotten, the vines, planted in
traditional style pergolas, abandoned.  His interest in wine, he says, was ignited by a wine-loving
Buddhist monk from  Brazil .  “My dream now is just to be self-sufficient and grow
grapes,” say Croft, an architect, furniture designer and former
director of a  Rudolf Steiner  school, whose shaggy white hair
makes him resemble a younger  Richard Gere .  Sunny Taste  Every wine we taste on the sunny stone terrace in front of
his whitewashed house is delicious.  Traditionally, Vinho Verde is a blend of several white
varieties. Croft grows only  loureiro  and makes it in four
different styles, including sparkling.  The 2011  Aphros Ten  ($15) is light-hearted, lemony, and
low-alcohol (10 percent), but my favorite is the soft yet crisp,
minerally 2011 Aphros Loureiro ($17), with its aromas of honey,
lime and rose petals and citrus and fennel flavors.  The reds and rose astonish. All are made from vinhao, a
grape with rosy-colored juice. The 2011 rose ($15) has intense
strawberry and watermelon notes. Deep purple 2009  Afros Vinhao 
($16), foot-crushed in granite troughs, tastes of licorice and
savory sour cherries.  Its exotic character and sappy acidity is just right with
the wild boar Croft serves, as is more powerful 2009 Silenus
($40), aged in oak. His vinhao sparkler, Super Reserva Bruto
($30), is ideal with a creamy chocolate dessert.  Burnish Image  Many other ambitious vintners are convinced alvarinho is
the white varietal that will change Vinho Verde’s underrated
image.  Enologist Luis Cerdeira of Quinta de  Soalheiro  says that
grape makes the region’s most complex, age-worthy wines and he
promises to prove it. His father planted vines in Melgaco, at
the northern tip of the country, in 1974.  Squinting in the sun in his family’s seven-hectare vineyard
overlooking the Minho river, Cerdeira points out  Spain ’s Rias
Baixas region on the opposite bank. It’s famous for the same
grape, which Spaniards call “albarino.”  Melgaco and neighboring Moncao are Vinho Verde’s top spots
for alvarinho. “Vineyard land here now costs 100,000 euros a
hectare,” says Cerdeira. “It’s half that or less elsewhere.”
Only Vinho Verdes from this sub-region can put the grape name on
the label.  Going organic is another way Cerdeira has been upping
quality. “The wines have clearer flavors, more balance,” he
says.  Wild Boar  On the stone deck of a house where the Cerdeiras receive
visitors, overlooking woods where wild boar hide, Cerdeira
arranges a tasting of eight vintages of alvarinho. All are
stunning, and have surprising depth and rich complex flavors.
The oldest, 1994, has the nutty taste of a mature riesling,
while younger vintages like 2005 and 2009 show flavors of quince
and a savory minerality.  In Portugal, outdoor tastings always seem to end with food,
and it turns out Cerdeira’s sister Maria Joao owns a small pig
farm, smokes her own meat and makes some of the best chourico
I’ve ever eaten.  Over lunch we sample brilliant current vintages of the
Quinta’s five alvarinhos. The 2011 Primeiras Vinhas (old vines)
is more complex and round; the powerful 2010 Reserva ($30)
reminds me of Chablis.  The fresh, lively, classic style 2011 Alvarinho ($22) goes
perfectly with salty clams. Call it Porsche-quality Vinho Verde.  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Muse highlights include Craig Evans on  books  and  Greg Evans 
on  television .  To contact the writer of this story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 