-- Record-Breaker Bolt Leaves Best U.S. Team Settling for Silver
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a ,   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-08-12T01:03:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/record-breaker-bolt-leaves-best-u-s-team-settling-for-silver.html
Not even matching a world record is
good enough to stop Usain Bolt.  Bolt won his third gold medal at the London Olympics as he
anchored the Jamaican team to a world-record 400-meter relay
dash of 36.84 seconds. The U.S. got silver, matching Jamaica’s
old world mark of 37.04.  Trinidad & Tobago  was third in 38.12
after  Canada  was disqualified.  “I like to push barriers, I like to do things that no one
has ever done before because it sets you apart from everybody
else and that’s why I changed the game,”  Bolt told reporters,
flanked by teammates Yohan Blake, Michael Frater and Nesta
Carter. “We’re happy and will continue pushing barriers.”  Three days ago, Bolt became the only man to successfully
defend both the 100- and 200-meter titles at an Olympics, and
the first runner to retain two titles since  Finland ’s Lasse
Viren won the 5,000- and 10,000-meter races at the 1972 Munich
Games and the 1976 Montreal Games.  Bolt set an Olympic record of 9.63 seconds when he cruised
to his 100-meter victory on Aug. 5. Blake was second in the 100
by running 9.75, a time that would have won every Olympic final
before Bolt took gold in Beijing.  Jamaica has dominated the 400-meter relay since winning the
2008 Olympics with a world record. The team won the world title
in Berlin in 2009, and improved its mark to 37.04 at last year’s
championships in Daegu,  South Korea .  For Tyson Gay, winning his first Olympic medal as a member
of the U.S. relay squad “fills a spot in my heart,” the
American told reporters.  Gay’s Medal  “Last week it was no medal for me, I was very upset,”
said Gay, who had been inconsolable after finishing fourth in
the final of the 100.  The U.S. quartet, which shattered a 20-year-old national
record yesterday in qualifying for the final, last won the 400-
meter relay at the 2000 Olympics in Sydney. In 2004, the
Americans were upset by the British team, then failed to finish
their heat in Beijing in 2008.  The U.S. is edging closer, 100 bronze medalist and relay
member Justin Gatlin said.  “We went out there and we put on a great show and we broke
our American record twice,” said Gatlin, who passed the baton
to Gay after the second leg. “That record was standing for 20
years before we even touched down in  London . So to leave London
with a 37.04, which was the world record last year, shows
America is getting itself together and we’re back. We wanted to
put on a great show.”  Keeping Baton  Bolt, who said a new world mark was possible before the
race, pleaded with officials to let him keep the baton with
which he and his teammates made history. The temporary dismissal
of his plea drew loud boos from the crowd. After returning to
the track for the medal ceremony, the Jamaican led the crowd in
the Wave and drew chants of “Bolt, Bolt, Bolt.”  “I got the baton back,” Bolt said. “At the start he was
saying I couldn’t keep it because it’s the rule. I got it back.
He told me if I didn’t give it back I’d be disqualified, so that
was kind of weird.”  There will never be another Bolt, Britain’s Mo Farah said
in a news conference after he’d added the 5,000-meter title to
his 10,000-meter gold.  “What he does for the sport is amazing,” said Farah, only
the seventh man to complete the distance double. “We take him
for granted. I don’t think we’ll ever see a legend like him
again.”  Bolt leaves London fulfilling the goal he’d set himself of
becoming a “living legend”.  “I’m just happy that I came here and did what I wanted to
do,” Bolt said. “It’s just a wonderful end to a wonderful
week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at London’s Olympic Park at   drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja at the Olympic Stadium in London at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny at the Olympic Stadium in London at
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  