-- Retail Sales Probably Increased in July: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-08-12T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/retail-sales-probably-increased-in-july-u-s-economy-preview.html
Sales at U.S. retailers probably
rose in July for the first time in four months as employment
picked up, easing concern the expansion is faltering, economists
said before reports this week.  The projected 0.3 percent advance in purchases would follow
a 0.5 percent drop in June, according to the  median  forecast of
65 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of the Commerce
Department figures on Aug. 14. Other reports may show the cost
of living increased and factory production climbed last month.  Gains in purchases at places like Gap Inc. and  Macy’s Inc. (M) 
indicate American households are looking beyond the global
economic slowdown as hiring improves. At the same time,
unemployment in excess of 8 percent is thwarting a binge in
spending as consumers look to repair finances and pay down debt.  “ Consumer spending  growth remains quite subdued,” said
 Ryan Wang , an economist at HSBC Securities USA Inc. in  New York .
“Consumers are still trying to rebuild savings, which basically
keeps spending growth in this moderate range.”  Households struggled to support the expansion last quarter.
Consumer purchases, about 70 percent of the economy, grew at a
1.5 percent annual rate from April to June, the weakest in a
year, according to Commerce Department data.  Economists project the retail sales category in the report
used to calculate gross domestic product, which excludes auto
dealers, building-material stores and service stations, will
show a 0.4 percent gain in July following a 0.1 percent decline
the prior month.  Sales Improve  July’s increase comes after same-store sales at the more
than 20 companies tracked by Retail Metrics Inc. rose 4.4
percent that month, almost four times analysts’ estimates,
compared with a 0.3 percent increase in June.  Sales at Gap, the biggest U.S. specialty-apparel retailer,
climbed 10 percent last month from the same period in 2011.
Macy’s, the owner of its namesake and Bloomingdale’s department
stores, posted a 4.1 percent gain.  “This month we saw broad-based strength across the U.S.,”
Sherry Lang, spokeswoman for TJX Cos., said during an Aug. 2
sales conference call. Same-store sales at the owner of the
Marshalls and T.J. Maxx chains rose 7 percent in July.  Underpinning the stronger sales, payrolls increased by
163,000 in July, the most in five months, according to Labor
Department figures. While the improvement eased fears the U.S.
labor market might continue stumbling following a second-quarter
slowdown, the jobless rate rose to 8.3 percent.  Production Climbs  Sustained gains in retail sales may stimulate
manufacturing, which is receiving fewer  orders  as economies in
Europe and  Asia  slow. So far this year, automobile production
has kept factory assembly lines busy.  Output at the nation’s factories, mines and utilities
probably rose 0.5 percent in July after a 0.4 percent gain the
previous month, economists forecast a Federal Reserve report
will show on Aug. 15.  The hottest July in the lower 48 states in 117 years of
records probably drove some of the production gains as Americans
used more electricity to run air conditioners. The temperature
last month averaged 77.6 degrees Fahrenheit (25.3 Celsius), or
3.3 degrees above normal, according to data from the  National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration .  Also on Aug. 15, a Labor Department report will probably
show the consumer-price index increased 0.2 percent in July
after an unchanged reading the prior month, according to the
survey median. Prices are projected to rise 1.6 percent over the
past year, down from 1.7 percent in June.  Fed’s View  Fed official said they believe inflation would run “at or
below” their goal of 2 percent, according to a statement from
the  Federal Open Market Committee  on Aug. 1. Their preferred
price gauge, issued by the Commerce Department and tied to
consumer spending, rose 1.5 percent in the 12-months-ended June,
matching the smallest gain in more than a year.  Investors agree with that outlook. The difference in yields
between 5-year notes and Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, or TIPS, which represents traders’ expectations for
the rate of inflation over the life of the bonds,  fell  to 1.90
percentage points at 4:54 p.m. in New York on Aug. 10.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  