-- Return of Olympics to U.S. Hangs on a Risky Deal
-- B y   R i c k   B u r t o n
-- 2012-08-12T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/return-of-olympics-to-u-s-hangs-on-a-risky-deal.html
Now that the London  Summer Olympics 
are finally over, some Americans might wonder when the U.S. will
next host the games.  The last time was during the scandal-plagued Salt Lake City
games in 2002. That completed a 22-year run when the U.S. was
the host in Lake Placid,  New York  (1980),  Los Angeles  (1984) and
Atlanta (1996) or, on average, every 5 1/2 years. Yet as of
today, the U.S. won’t host the Summer Olympics before 2024 or
perhaps even long after that.  A harsh prediction? Not really because when  New York City 
lost the 2012 bid to London, and  Chicago  failed for 2016, the
 U.S. Olympic Committee  chose not to bid for 2020. That means
2024 is the earliest the Summer Olympics might return to
American soil. And if the U.S. were to bid and win the  Winter
Games  in 2022 that would make it even less likely the U.S. will
get the Summer Games any time soon. Why is that? you might ask.  The main issue is that many  International Olympic Committee 
members don’t like the U.S. law (the Ted Stevens Olympic and
Amateur Sports  Act  of 1998) that gives domestic-licensing
ownership of the word “Olympics” and famed five interlocking
Olympic rings to the federally chartered USOC. That means
broadcast and sponsorship rights for any U.S. telecast or
advertisement must be approved by the USOC.  Adds Up  And that adds up to a great deal of money based on a deal
carved out in the mid-1980s that gives the USOC 12.75 percent of
the billions of dollars NBC pays to the IOC for U.S. broadcast
rights and 20 percent from the billions more the IOC receives
from worldwide exclusive sponsorship deals (known as The Olympic
Program, or  TOP ) with companies such as Coca-Cola Co.,
McDonald’s Corp. and Visa Inc.  To make matters worse for many IOC members, the U.S., after
getting more money from the organizing body than any country in
the world, then goes on to win the most medals at the Atlanta,
Sydney, Athens, Beijing and  London  games. This dominance is a
sore point for the IOC’s members, who seem to have decided that
a new revenue-sharing deal was needed before the U.S. would
again win the rights to host the games.  For years, the USOC’s administration stonewalled
discussions with the IOC about changing a broadcast marketing
agreement that was designed to run in perpetuity. But as the
bidding losses mounted, the USOC’s new leadership, led by
Chairman Larry Probst and Chief Executive Officer and Secretary
General Scott Blackmun, offered to change the deal.  There are at least two possible ways to look at the
revision of the revenue-sharing deal reached between the IOC and
USOC in  Quebec City ,  Canada , in late May.  The first is that the IOC’s 100-plus members held the USOC
hostage, threatening to withhold awarding the games to the U.S.
again until the contract was altered.  The second more palatable interpretation is that the USOC
magnanimously opted to give money back to the Olympic movement
to ensure more equitable athletic competition in future games.
This assumes -- probably falsely -- that the USOC decided that
revenue received from the IOC gave the U.S. team an unfair
advantage when it came to winning medals. To wit, the IOC was
paying the USOC hundreds of millions of dollars that were used
to train American athletes to dominate world sport.  For many countries, it is irrelevant that the U.S. is the
only major country that doesn’t employ a minister of sport or
that U.S. athletes don’t receive any federal-government funding.
Because the IOC controls global Olympic sponsorship and grants
television broadcast rights on a country-by-country basis -- NBC
contributes as much as half of the IOC’s total TV revenue -- the
IOC acts as the world’s ultimate sports banker.  National Committees  In short, the committee determines where the Olympics are
held and how they will be funded. It then goes and collects vast
sums from networks and sponsors before redistributing the
available proceeds to the national Olympic committees of the
world.  But for the IOC to broadcast the Games in the U.S. or for
TOP sponsors or even domestic USOC sponsors to activate their
partnerships, the USOC must get paid its predetermined
percentage. That’s the law.  So what does this new deal, which starts in 2020 and runs
for 20 years, mean? In short, the IOC will pay out much less
money to the USOC (only 7 percent on new TV deals and 10 percent
of sponsorships) and, for its part, the USOC will agree to
contribute $15 million to $20 million every four years for
administrative costs to stage all future  Olympic Games .  So far, it sounds pretty one-sided. But here’s the kicker:
The USOC probably has a much better chance of winning the right
to host the Summer Games 12 years from now.  Let’s be honest, though. If future U.S. teams continue
dominating the medals stand and numerous IOC members won’t budge
in their anti-Americanism, then the USOC may have sacrificed
guaranteed revenue while failing to appease the IOC. In that
case, no one will have a clue when the U.S. will ever again play
host to the Summer Games.  ( Rick Burton  is the David B. Falk professor of sport
management at  Syracuse University  and was chief marketing
officer of the U.S. Olympic Committee for the 2008 Beijing
Summer Olympics. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on comparing Ryan’s and Obama’s
 budget ideas  and on how to keep the  South China Sea  from blowing
up; Peter R. Orszag on a  budget wonk’s  view of Ryan;  Ramesh
Ponnuru  on Romney’s  transformative running mate  choice;  Albert R.
Hunt  on  Ryan’s congressional mentor ; William D. Cohan on  Bain
Capital’s corporate wreckage ; Adam Kirsch on  what Henry Adams
would say  about  Sheldon Adelson . Find more about Romney’s vice-
presidential pick on  the Ticker blog .  To contact the writer of this article:
Rick Burton at  rhburton@syr.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 