-- Romania Completes Talks With IMF, EU on Review of Its Aid Deal
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-08-12T07:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/romania-completes-talks-with-imf-eu-on-review-of-its-aid-deal.html
Romania, the  International Monetary
Fund  and the European Union “successfully” completed talks on
the sixth quarterly review of the terms of a precautionary loan,
Finance Minister Florin Georgescu said.  The government secured the amounts it needs to restore
public wages to the level before a 25 percent cut in 2010,
Georgescu told reporters in Bucharest late yesterday. It also
pledged to sell a majority stake in chemical company  Oltchim SA (OLT) 
to a strategic investor by mid-September and hold a public sale
of a 15 percent stake in natural-gas grid operator  Transgaz SA. (TGN)   “We’ve also agreed on some measures to stimulate the
business environment and the creation of jobs,” Georgescu said.
The economy will grow about 1.2 percent this year, while
inflation will be 3.5 percent and the  budget deficit  2.2 percent
of gross domestic product at the end of 2012, he said.  The government of Prime Minister Victor Ponta, Romania’s
third cabinet this year, pledged to continue a 5 billion-euro
($6.1 billion) precautionary loan agreement with the IMF and the
EU. It secured an additional 1 billion euros from the  World Bank 
this year, though it hasn’t yet drawn any money. The lenders are
scheduled to publish their findings on the government’s progress
on fiscal targets and planned asset sales in the coming days.  Georgescu also said the details of the 2013 budget will be
discussed with the lenders at the next review mission at the end
of November or beginning of December.  Political Turmoil  Romania, scheduled to hold parliamentary elections around
that time, is going through political turmoil amid a power
struggle between Ponta and suspended President Traian Basescu
that’s undermined investor confidence and weakened the leu.  The bickering deepened after the  Constitutional Court 
delayed ruling on whether a July 29 referendum to impeach
Basescu was valid, citing conflicting data on the voting lists.
The ministers in charge of updating voting lists resigned on
Aug. 6 and were replaced the same day. The government must send
updated voting lists to the court later this month.  The feud in Bucharest prompted international leaders,
including the European Commission President  Jose Barroso , to
voice concerns about the developments in the eastern European
country and urged the government to respond to requests from the
Constitutional Court.  The U.S. will send U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Philip Gordon to Bucharest to discuss the concerns of the authorities
in  Washington  about the impeachment procedure,  Mediafax  reported
yesterday, citing a statement by the U.S. State Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  