-- Romney Says Obama ‘Robbed Medicare’ for Health Overhaul Cost
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-08-12T21:59:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/romney-says-obama-robbed-medicare-for-health-overhaul-cost-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  “robbed”
Medicare to pay for the health-care legislation he pushed
through Congress in 2010, Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney says in an interview to be broadcast tonight.  Romney made the claim when asked on the CBS program “60
Minutes” about the political risk of picking Representative
Paul Ryan of Wisconsin as his running mate. Ryan, the chairman
of the House Budget Committee, has led efforts to revamp
Medicare, the government health-insurance program for the
elderly.  “There’s only one president that I know of in history that
robbed Medicare, $716 billion to pay for a new risky program of
his own that we call Obamacare,” Romney responds, according to
excerpts of the interview released by CBS..  The interview is the first joint one by the newly formed
Republican ticket since Romney announced Ryan as his running-
mate pick yesterday in  Virginia .  “What  Paul Ryan  and I have talked about is saving
Medicare, is providing people greater choice in Medicare, making
sure it’s there for current seniors,” Romney says on “60
Minutes.” “No changes, by the way, for current seniors, or
those nearing retirement. But looking for young people down the
road and saying, ‘We’re going to give you a bigger choice.’ In
America, the nature of this country has been giving people more
freedom, more choices.”  Stephanie Cutter , Obama’s deputy campaign manager, said on
the CBS program “Face the Nation” earlier today that the
president has done nothing to harm Medicare.  Obama’s Cuts  “You know I heard Mitt Romney deride the $700 billion cuts
in Medicare that the president achieved through health-care
reform,” she said. “You know what those cuts are? It’s taking
subsidies away from insurance companies. Taking rebates away
from prescription drug companies. Is that what  Mitt Romney  wants
to protect?”  Ryan has proposed replacing Medicare with a plan giving
seniors a fixed amount of money to buy private coverage. The
theory is that competition among health insurers for their
business will bring down spiraling costs. Since his initial
proposal, he has softened the plan to offer the elderly a choice
between the traditional Medicare and the fixed subsidies.  “My mom is a Medicare senior in  Florida ,” Ryan says in
the CBS interview. “Our point is we need to preserve their
benefits, because government made promises to them that they’ve
organized their retirements around. In order to make sure we can
do that, you must reform it for those of us who are younger. And
we think these reforms are good reforms.”  Romney is scheduled to campaign tomorrow in the
battleground and retiree-heavy state of Florida. Ryan, after
joining Romney this weekend on bus tours in Virginia and  North
Carolina  and at a rally tonight in Wisconsin, will campaign in
 Iowa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  