-- Romney-Ryan Could Be Just the Ticket for a Useful Debate
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-12T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/romney-ryan-could-be-just-the-ticket-for-a-useful-debate.html
By choosing U.S. Representative Paul Ryan as his running mate,  Mitt Romney  has added some verve to
what had been a tedious presidential contest.  Romney deserves credit for his audacity, to borrow a word
from his opponent. The question is whether the Republican
campaign’s newfound energy will be used more to obfuscate or
illuminate. If the latter, voters might find that the two
presidential candidates agree more than they would have you
believe.  The debates over such  phony issues  as whether Romney or
President  Barack Obama  has sent more jobs offshore will continue,
of course. Now we have the potential at least for a true contest
of ideas: What is the optimum size and role of government? What
is the best way to reduce trillion-dollar annual deficits and
$15 trillion in  total debt ? With a rapidly graying population
and entitlements that eat up most of the  federal budget , can
Medicare’s growth be stopped without impoverishing senior
citizens? Is it time to raise taxes, even on the middle class?  Ryan would cut taxes, shrink the government, semi-privatize
Medicare and turn Medicaid, the health-care program for the poor,
into block grants to states. Some of this agenda is radical.
Once the details are understood, they may not sit well with
seniors, independents or even some Republican voters.
Nevertheless, the proper time to debate them is in a
presidential campaign, not as part of a needless fight over the
federal debt limit.  Comparing Tickets  How, then, to size the tickets up? One way is through the
candidates’ own words.  Ryan calls  the federal safety net a
“hammock that lulls able-bodied people into lives of
complacency and dependency.” Obama  calls the safety net  a
“basic measure of security” against “hard times or bad luck,
a crippling illness or a layoff” that could strike even hard-
working people.  Yet between these apparently incompatible views of
government, there is some surprising common ground. Both Obama
and Ryan would attack red ink by moving broadly in the same
direction, albeit at different speeds. Here’s a quick primer:  -- Medicare: Ryan originally proposed phasing out Medicare
in favor of vouchers, but in his  2013 budget proposal  he offers
seniors a choice between vouchers and the traditional program,
attracting the support of at least one Democrat, Senator  Ron Wyden  of  Oregon . Ryan’s idea, a so-called premium-support plan,
would give seniors a fixed amount of money with which to buy
private coverage. Competition among health insurers for seniors’
business will bring down costs, or so the theory goes.  Some analysts suggest that cost increases are coming  under
control  already, but history shows that sharp increases always
resume after an economic recovery. The  Congressional Budget
Office   projects that  Medicare will run out of money in nine
years. Ryan would limit Medicare spending to the growth of the
economy plus 0.5 percent more than inflation, the same cap as
Obama’s. The CBO estimates that, by 2030, spending on the
average Medicare beneficiary in the Ryan plan would be $7,400
(in 2011 dollars), 14 percent lower than current law.  Cost shifting? Yes. But it’s less than the Obama camp would
have you believe.  -- Domestic spending: Ryan would shield the Pentagon from
significant cuts, and calls for dramatic reductions in  food
stamps  and other programs for low-income Americans. The
administration has expanded funding for Pell college tuition
grants, while Ryan has sought reductions. He would reduce
housing-assistance programs and  farm subsidies . Overall, Ryan
cuts nondefense spending, which accounts for 12 percent of the
budget, too much and too quickly.  Comparing Cuts  -- Tax cuts: Obama would raise taxes on high-earners while
Ryan would collapse the number of tax brackets to two from six,
dropping the top rate to 25 percent from next year’s 39.6
percent and setting the other rate at just 10 percent. Corporate
taxes would be cut to 25 percent from 35 percent under Ryan’s
plan and to 28 percent by Obama. The 2001 and 2003 tax cuts
under the George W. Bush administration would be extended by
Ryan; Obama would continue them only on household earnings up to
$250,000. Both would limit the ability of high-earners to take
advantage of tax expenditures.  Altogether, Ryan would cut revenue by $4 trillion and
spending by about $6 trillion over the next decade. Obama would
cut spending and raise taxes by $4 trillion over 12 years,
bumping  tax revenue  to 19.8 percent of GDP, up from 15 percent
now. Revenue under Ryan’s plan would rise to 18.75 percent of
the economy, less than Obama but more than the historical
average of 18 percent.  These plans are not separated by a huge chasm.  According to
the CBO , the 2022 deficit under Obama’s fiscal 2013 budget
proposal would be about 3 percent of GDP, down from about 8.1
percent this year. Ryan would bring the deficit to 1.25 percent
of GDP by 2023.  Ryan’s plan falls short by not spelling out which tax
breaks he would end, other than to say well-to-do Americans
should bear the brunt. As the  Tax Policy Center   has pointed out ,
the math would seem to dictate major cuts in most popular tax
expenditures, including deductions for mortgage interest and
company-paid health insurance. The center also says plans such
as Ryan’s (and Romney’s) would ultimately leave all but the
richest taxpayers  worse off .  -- Health-care reform: Obama, through his health-care
reform law, establishes state-based exchanges for insurance
plans that compete for the business of individuals and small-
business owners, some of whom get a premium subsidy. Ryan would
seek to repeal the Affordable Care Act, but establish exchanges
in which health plans compete for the business of  Medicare-
eligible seniors , who would get a premium subsidy. It wouldn’t
be a stretch to combine the two approaches by establishing
competitive exchanges under which health plans market themselves
to one and all, with the government setting minimum coverage
standards and offering subsidies to the poor, disabled and
elderly.  Already, the airwaves are filling with negative ads about
the Romney-Ryan ticket, and you can be sure the response will be
swift and low. Is it too much to hope that negative ads won’t
define the remaining 80-plus days of this campaign? Probably. No
single candidate, even one as earnest and wonky as  Paul Ryan ,
can singlehandedly raise the level of political debate in the
U.S. But if voters -- or, going out on a limb here, the
presidential candidates themselves -- ever tire of pointless
politics, both tickets now offer plenty of substance over which
to disagree.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to keep the  South China
Sea  from blowing up; Peter R. Orszag on a  budget wonk’s  view of
Ryan;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on Romney’s  transformative running mate 
choice;  Albert R. Hunt  on  Ryan’s congressional mentor ; William D.
Cohan on  Bain Capital’s corporate wreckage ;  Rick Burton  on how
the  U.S. tried to appease  the  International Olympic Committee ;
Adam Kirsch on  what Henry Adams would say  about  Sheldon Adelson .
Find more about Romney’s vice-presidential pick on  the Ticker
blog .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 