-- Paul Ryan Is No Jack Kemp
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-08-12T15:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/ryan-splits-from-his-mentor-jack-kemp-on-government-role.html
Mitt Romney ’s running mate,
Representative  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin, is a self-styled disciple
of the late  Jack Kemp , the buoyant conservative Republican who
played a major role in shaping the political agenda in the last
quarter of the 20th century.  The relationship was real. Ryan worked for Kemp as a
speechwriter and at his research group; Kemp’s granddaughter was
an intern in his protégé’s congressional office.  Like his mentor, Ryan is passionate, exuberant,
intellectually stimulating and devoid of the petty meanness that
afflicts conservatives such as  Newt Gingrich  (and some liberals,
too).  Cutting marginal  tax rates  to create an entrepreneurial
society of opportunity is as central to Ryan’s philosophy as it
was to Kemp’s.  Although they were more than a generation apart in age,
there were personal similarities. Both are family men and
outdoorsmen: Kemp was a skier; Ryan is a hunter and fisherman.
Both loved professional football, Kemp as a star quarterback,
Ryan as an avid fan of the  Green Bay Packers .  The differences between them are equally interesting and
instructive.  Undisciplined Candidate  Kemp, for all his talent and charm, could be maddeningly
undisciplined. This trait surfaced when he was the Republican
vice presidential candidate in 1996, much to the consternation
of the man who picked him,  Bob Dole .  That’s not a worry for Romney. His 42-year-old running mate
is disciplined, careful and always prepared. There is little
danger of Ryan getting distracted or going off message in his
debate with Vice President  Joe Biden .  At the same time, Ryan lacks his mentor’s inclusiveness and
empathy. Kemp was at a home in the barrio or the ghetto, where
he sought to share his entrepreneurial American dream. That
isn’t Ryan’s world. Black or Hispanic leaders would have been in
Kemp’s rolodex and on a first-name basis with the ex-congressman
from  New York  and secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
With Ryan, these constituencies have a correct and distant
relationship.  Until he died in 2009, Kemp was a committed champion for
more immigration, which he believed was at the center of the
American experience; and he advocated a pathway to citizenship
for those in the U.S. illegally. Ryan equivocates, even if his
views may not be that different. He ends up between Kemp and
Romney, who turned into an immigration-basher in the 2008 and
2012 presidential primaries.  In sync on taxes, their views on  spending  and the role of
government were different. Kemp came to Congress more than 40
years ago as a traditional small-government Republican; he
evolved into a supply-sider who didn’t really want to slash
government and proudly declared that he didn’t “worship at the
shrine of the balanced budget.”  Kemp was one of the few members to serve on a congressional
budget committee whose outlook wasn’t captured by that
experience. That transcends party: The current chairman of the
Senate Budget Committee, the Democrat  Kent Conrad , is a genuine
deficit hawk.  Ryan, as the current chairman of the House Budget
Committee, is defined by his  blueprint . Rarely has one House
member so dominated an issue. His budget includes huge tax cuts
that disproportionately benefit the wealthy and massive budget
cutbacks to shrink the size of government.  Reaching Out  With his intellectual prowess and personal appeal, Ryan is
comfortable with elites. That includes some people who don’t
share his views, though he doesn’t work the other side of the
political aisle as well as Kemp did.  It will be revealing, and a mistake, if Romney tries to
strike some distance from the  Ryan budget . By picking the
 Wisconsin  lawmaker, the presidential candidate is joined at the
political hip to that proposal.  Yet the man and his plan aren’t as simple as depicted by
allies and adversaries. Ryan is a supply-side tax cutter; unlike
Kemp, he also wants to radically transform and reduce the role
of government. Even his revised budget plan, with less draconian
Medicare cuts almost surely would involve significant cutbacks
in benefits. And the Medicaid cuts would fall hard on the poor
and those with disabilities. Ryan believes this would produce a
more vibrant economy and ultimately help the less fortunate.  He’s not, however, a huge deficit hawk; in that sense, like
Kemp, he doesn’t worship at the altar of a  balanced budget . The
Ryan plan would take three decades to balance the budget; Romney
promises to do it in a decade.  Ryan played a critical role in killing the bipartisan
Bowles-Simpson deficit-reduction proposal. He was on the panel
that recommended narrowing the  deficit  by $4 trillion, primarily
through spending cuts, but also higher taxes. Unlike some other
conservatives on the committee, such as Senator  Tom Coburn  of
 Oklahoma , Ryan voted against Bowles-Simpson; if he had voted for
it, the proposal might have come to a vote in Congress.  Don’t be surprised if Ryan is attacked by some Democrats as
a deficit dove. Kemp would have worn that as a badge of honor;
his disciple probably won’t.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)   Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 