-- Ryan Pick Begins Mega-Debate Over Fiscal Policy: BGOV Insight
-- B y   R o b e r t   L i t a n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a y n e
-- 2012-08-12T22:32:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/ryan-pick-begins-mega-debate-over-fiscal-policy-bgov-insight.html
With his pick of U.S. Representative
 Paul Ryan  as his running mate,  Mitt Romney  now agrees with
President  Barack Obama  on at least one thing: this election is
about big choices.  One set of choices involves the amount and pace of long-
term deficit reduction, which Congress must decide by the end of
this year for at least a 10-year period or trigger a 10-year,
$1.2 trillion “sequestration” of funds for discretionary
programs. About half would come from defense; the rest from
domestic programs that weren’t exempted from the across-the-
board cuts.  Both candidates and their advisers know that any long-term
deal must somehow address the rising costs of the three big
sequester exemptions -- the entitlement programs of Social
Security, Medicare and Medicaid.  Restructuring Entitlements  Romney and Ryan, a Republican from  Wisconsin  and chairman
of the House Budget Committee, share this view: They want a deal
that doesn’t raise taxes as a share of the economy while
fundamentally restructuring all three entitlements.  Ryan’s latest budget plan, published in April 2012 and
adopted by the House, sought to cap revenue at just more than 18
percent of gross domestic product, which is its historical
average.  Obama is calling for more revenue from upper-income
taxpayers without far-reaching program changes. Obama’s Deficit
Reduction Commission report (the Simpson-Bowles plan), published
in December 2010, had revenue ultimately settling at just less
than 21 percent of GDP. Although Obama didn’t endorse Simpson-
Bowles, revenue under his 10-year budget released in February
was projected to be close to the commission’s figures, coming in
about 22 percent of GDP by 2022.  There are even larger differences on the spending side
between the Ryan/House Republican and Obama budget plans.  The Ryan plan envisioned spending at about 20 percent of
GDP by 2015, with a long-term target (2050) of getting spending
down to 15 percent of GDP, far below the roughly 20 percent
range it has been at for five decades.  In contrast, the Simpson-Bowles plan recommended a target
of 22 percent of GDP for spending in 2020 and 21 percent long
term. The Obama administration hasn’t projected spending beyond
10 years, but its spending numbers are just under 23 percent of
GDP in 2022.  Medicare Vouchers  Ryan’s signature proposal is to overhaul -- in his words
“save” -- Medicare by turning the benefit into a voucher
averaging $8,000, but that would vary with an individual’s
health status and income. Beneficiaries would use the voucher to
buy health insurance in the private market. The Ryan plan
wouldn’t go into effect until 2022, and would grandfather those
who receive benefits under the current Medicare reimbursement
system up until that time. The voucher amounts would escalate
over time.  The Ryan pick will be used by team Obama as evidence for an
argument that Republicans not only want to unreasonably shrink
government in general, but to gut Medicare in particular --
despite the delay in the proposal’s effective date. The delay is
analogous to the one built into the Social Security
privatization plan offered in 2005 by President  George W. Bush .  A big challenge for Romney and Ryan is to make voters,
especially senior citizens and those about to qualify for
Medicare, understand that the changes they propose won’t kick in
for some time and will not apply to those 55 or older.  The voucher escalation rate also will be a flash point in
the upcoming presidential contest. Given the historically rapid
pace of health care inflation -- running almost twice the level
of urban consumer price inflation between 1980 and 2010 --Ryan’s
original proposal in 2011 to increase Medicare vouchers only at
the pace of inflation over time would have severely eroded
Medicare benefits.  Democratic Critique  It was largely for this reason that Democratic budget
expert  Alice Rivlin , who also has called for moving Medicare
more toward vouchers, distanced herself from Ryan after media
reports suggested that they were on the same wave-length on this
issue. Other Democrats, too, seized on the penury of the
Medicare escalation factor in Ryan’s 2011 plan.  Perhaps in response to these critiques, or because he had
his own doubts, Ryan updated his budget plan in April 2012. A
key revision was to bump up the escalation factor in the
Medicare voucher plan so that costs per capita couldn’t grow
faster than a rate of nominal GDP plus 0.5 percentage point.  Even then, unless health care inflation slows permanently
in the future, this revision could also end up significantly
reducing Medicare benefits over time, though not as much as
under the initial Ryan plan.  A key challenge for the Romney-Ryan team will be to explain
how their market-driven health care changes will lower health
care inflation so that the real value of future Medicare
benefits will not be threatened.  Bolstering Recovery  The other set of big choices, on which, so far, there is
less clarity, is about the use of fiscal policy in the short run
to bolster the recovery or at least keep it on track.  Although the pace of economic growth has faltered and looks
uncertain even if the much-feared “fiscal cliff” of sequester
and expiration of Bush-era tax cuts is avoided, neither
presidential candidate has said much about renewing the Social
Security payroll tax cuts that expire in December, or about
adopting any other form of short-term “stimulus.”  Obama has avoided the issue due to the unpopularity of his
initial stimulus plan and because even to raise the idea of more
stimulus now sows further doubts about the strength of the
recovery, which can only hurt him in the election.  For their parts, Romney and Ryan have made their critique
of Obama’s stimulus measures a central plank in their case for
unseating him.  Economic Vulnerabilities  If the economy remains weak, however, both presidential
candidates will be pressed on what additional ideas they have
for accelerating the recovery.  Given his support of short-term stimulus measures in the
past, it wouldn’t be a surprise if Obama endorses yet another
dose of tax-cutting. With the election now so polarized on
fiscal issues, he may even start talking about short-run
spending increases.  Of course, any hint by Obama that he is open to further
temporary stimulus measures would have to be reconciled with a
commitment to shrink the deficit over the 10-year budget window
once the economy has strengthened.  Voters will be looking to Obama’s Republican opponents to
ask what, if anything, they would do differently. Clearly, for
them, stimulus spending is not an option. On the revenue side,
so far, Romney has called for a 1986 tax overhaul-style revenue-
neutral cut in marginal rates on individual and corporate
incomes, paired with unspecified cuts in tax deductions or
credits.  One open question as the campaign proceeds, and certainly
if Romney and Ryan are elected, is whether a Romney-Ryan
administration would back a  tax cut  that’s not revenue neutral
and thus designed -- even if they don’t say it this way -- to
stimulate the economy.  ( Robert Litan  is the director of research and Christopher Payne a senior economic analyst at Bloomberg Government. The
views expressed are their own.)  To contact the analysts:
Robert Litan in Washington at 
 rlitan2@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Payne in Washington at 
 cpayne9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible:
David Rapp at 
 drapp5@bloomberg.net  