-- Ryan Disguise and Woods Detour Keep Romney No. 2 Pick Secret
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-08-12T12:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/ryan-disguise-and-forest-detour-keep-romney-no-2-pick-secret.html
It was a scene more fitting for a
whodunit mystery than a vice-presidential rollout.  U.S. House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  --
determined not to be seen as he began making his way from his
Wisconsin home to the Norfolk, Virginia, battleship where he
would be named  Mitt Romney ’s running mate -- left through the
back door of his house on Aug. 10 and crept into the woods that
led to his boyhood home, passing his old tree fort as he went.  On the other side, he met an aide who would sneak him to a
small airport for a chartered flight that would begin an
adventure that he says is still “going from the surreal to the
real.”  Romney, 65, seeking a game-changing running mate at a
crucial moment in the presidential race, named Ryan, 42,
yesterday as the other half of what his campaign is calling
“America’s Comeback Team.”  Until the last moments, he and his staff were determined to
keep his months-long quest for a No. 2 under wraps and his final
choice secret. At a hangar at Dulles International Airport in
 Virginia  yesterday at the close of Romney and Ryan’s first day
campaigning as a pair, Romney’s top aide, Beth Myers, described
the painstaking deliberations and sometimes cloak-and-dagger
tactics they used to pull it off.  ‘Day One’  At the start of the four-month process, Romney gave search
chief Myers one simple directive, she said: “That the
candidates must be qualified to take office on Day One.”
Choosing among what she described as “a large group” of
contenders -- and then hiding the pick from a frenzied press
corps and the public -- was more complicated.  Ryan’s forest detour wasn’t the first time he had taken
pains to avoid being spotted, according to Myers’ account. After
Romney decided on Aug. 1 that Ryan was his choice and called the
 Wisconsin  lawmaker to summon him to  Massachusetts  for a sit-down
meeting, Ryan donned a casual shirt, jeans, a baseball cap and
sunglasses to ensure he wasn’t recognized en route from  Chicago 
to a small airport in Hartford,  Connecticut .  “We gave a lot of thought on how to make this work
undetected,” said Myers, who sent her 19-year-old son, Curt, to
meet Ryan in Hartford and drive him to her home in Brookline,
Massachusetts.  While Romney had yet to offer him the post, the seven-term
congressman had a hunch what was in store.  ‘Deeply Humbled’  “By the time we met in person, I kind of knew it was going
to happen, and I was deeply humbled,” Ryan told reporters
traveling on Romney’s campaign plane last night from Dulles.
“It was the biggest honor I’ve ever been given in my life.”  It was there, in Myers’ dining room on Aug. 5, that Romney
and Ryan had a chance to talk about how their pairing would work
in the campaign against President  Barack Obama  and Vice
President Joseph Biden.  “We talked about the campaign, how it would be run,”
Romney told reporters last night. “We talked about how we’d
work together if we get the White House, what the relationship
would be, how we’d interact and be involved in important
decisions. We talked about our families and what this meant for
them, and the challenge for them.”  Ryan accepted the offer, a decision he told reporters
yesterday was an easy one.  The conversation was the culmination of an arduous process
that began in April, when Romney’s senior aides put together
briefings on a broad group of possible vice-presidential
candidates -- Myers declined to say how many, except that the
group was “large” -- that would be whittled down to a short
list by the start of May.  Calling All Candidates  Romney called all the candidates and asked whether they
wanted to be considered -- Myers said they all did -- then
scrutinized his choices, discussing them extensively with top
aides, friends and confidants.  Romney met with senior advisers -- including Stuart Stevens, Russ Schriefer, Peter Flaherty,  Eric Fehrnstrom ,  Ed Gillespie , Ron Kaufman, pollster  Neil Newhouse , campaign manager
Matt Rhoades, and campaign chairman and confidant Bob White --
for a gut check. He made his final choice on Aug. 1.  Myers had done some preparation of her own, seeking advice
from Republicans who were veterans of prior vice presidential
searches and rollouts, including former Vice President Richard Cheney and his daughter, Liz Cheney, and former Secretary of
State  James Baker .  She also recruited a small group of volunteer attorneys to
vet the candidates in a locked, secure room at the Romney
campaign’s  Boston  headquarters, poring over questionnaires and
public records and leaving all their materials -- none of which
could ever be duplicated -- in a safe when they weren’t in use.  Tax Returns  Among the files collected from Ryan were several years of
tax returns, Myers said, declining to detail how many. That
means Romney had access to more of Ryan’s tax records than the
public has had to those of the presidential candidate himself.
Romney released his 2010 tax return and has promised to provide
his 2011 filing when it’s available, yet has resisted calls to
disclose prior years’ information.  Shortly after Romney’s Aug. 5 one-on-one meeting with Ryan,
word reached Myers’ home of the shooting at a Sikh temple in
Ryan’s district -- an event that would ultimately throw off the
planned timing of the team’s rollout. Originally slated for Aug.
10 in  New Hampshire  before the start of a four-day bus tour
through swing states, the announcement had to be moved to
yesterday after a memorial service for the Sikh victims was
scheduled for that day.  Speculation Frenzy  The bus tour itself sparked a frenzy of speculation with
its itinerary -- states including Virginia, Florida and  Ohio ,
which are home to Governor  Bob McDonnell , and Senators Marco Rubio and  Rob Portman , all believed to be vice presidential
contenders. A news report yesterday that a charter jet had flown
from Boston to Janesville, Wisconsin -- Ryan’s hometown -- added
to the public guessing.  Romney spent part of Friday afternoon phoning short-listers
he hadn’t selected, including Portman. Former Minnesota Governor
 Tim Pawlenty  had received word on Aug. 6 that he wouldn’t be
Romney’s choice.  That left Ryan, who flew with his family to Elizabeth City,
 North Carolina , and holed up with top aides at a Fairfield Inn,
where the group ordered in from Applebee’s and prepared Ryan for
his speech. The campaign distributed an advisory late on the
night of Aug. 10 saying that Romney would announce his choice
the next morning on the USS Wisconsin, further feeding the
speculation around Ryan. Then Myers switched off her phone.  The official announcement came the way Romney’s team had
always promised it would -- through a social media application
it had announced weeks earlier. Then the campaign issued a news
release and about two hours later, Ryan bounded off of the
bunting-adorned battleship and joined Romney for the first time
as his running mate as rousing music blared.  “Big day!” Romney told reporters later. “It’s now two-
on-two instead of two-on-one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  