-- Singh Failure to Tame Inflation Cuts Bond Appeal: India Credit
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-08-12T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/singh-failure-to-tame-inflation-cuts-bond-appeal-india-credit.html
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
failure to contain the worst inflation among the biggest
 emerging markets  is making Indian debt less appealing compared
with similarly-rated Asian bonds.  The benchmark price index rose 7.2 percent in July,
exceeding 7 percent for a sixth month, economists  predicted  in a
Bloomberg  survey  before data due tomorrow. Global funds added
$585 million to  holdings  of Indian corporate and sovereign
securities this quarter, 58 percent less than the $1.4 billion
they invested in Indonesian government debt alone.  Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao on July 31 refrained
from cutting the highest borrowing costs among major Asian
economies and raised his  inflation  forecast as the worst monsoon
since 2009 threatens to boost food costs. Singh’s efforts to
keep fuel and food affordable for two-thirds of  India ’s 1.2
billion people living on less than $2 a day may cause the
government to overshoot its budget  deficit  target.  “Inflation moderation would be difficult in case the
monsoon turns out to be bad,” Guilherme Maciel de Barros, a
London-based  fund manager  at Lombard Odier Darier Hentsch & Cie,
which manages $1 billion in emerging-market debt assets, said in
an Aug. 9 e-mail. “India certainly has bigger challenges on the
fiscal front and as a result debt issuance will continue to be a
bigger problem than in Indonesia.”  The  premium  investors demand to hold Indian debt, rated
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service, over Indonesian notes has
surged 50 percent since June. Ten-year rupee-denominated bonds
now  yield  8.17 percent, 242 basis points more than comparable
rupiah notes, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The spread has
widened 80 basis points from an eight-month low on June 13.  Rising Risk  Bond risk in India has increased in the past year. The cost
of insuring the debt of government-controlled  State Bank  of
India, a proxy for the nation, climbed 81 basis points from a
year ago to 311, according to data provider CMA. The average
price of credit-default swaps for  Asia ’s 10 biggest economies
dropped 10 basis points to 131 in the period.  The  Reserve Bank ’s Subbarao held the  repurchase rate  at 8
percent for a second straight review on July 31 and raised his
inflation estimate for the year through March 2013 to 7 percent
from 6.5 percent, citing inflation risks fueled by inadequate
rainfall. The monetary authority also scaled back its estimate
for economic  expansion  to 6.5 percent from 7.3 percent. Policy
makers from  Brazil  to  China  and  South Korea  cut borrowing costs
last month to spur economic growth.  Drought Looms  Inflation was 5.2 percent in Brazil, 1.8 percent in China,
5.6 percent in  Russia  and 4.6 percent in Indonesia last month,
according to official figures.  India’s monsoon, which accounts for more than 70 percent of
annual rainfall, was 17 percent below a 50-year average so far
this year, the nation’s weather bureau said Aug. 7. Farm
Minister  Sharad Pawar  has said India may be facing its worst
drought since 1972, the Indian Express reported Aug. 5. There
may be “major negative implications” for India’s farm output
if rains don’t improve, the  World Bank  said in a July 30 report.  The prospect of a drought is prompting banks to cut
forecasts for interest-rate cuts in India. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. now predicts the RBI will lower its repo rate by 25 basis
points by year-end, after paring an earlier estimate for a 75
basis-point reduction. Morgan Stanley has scaled back its easing
expectation to 50 basis points from 75, while Nomura Holdings
Inc. sees no decline this year, after discarding a projection
for a quarter percentage point drop.  ‘Long Wait’  Citigroup Inc. on Aug. 7 lowered its rate-cut estimate to
50 basis points in the year through March 2013 from an earlier
call for a reduction of as much as 75 basis points. The third-
largest U.S. bank forecasts Indian inflation to average 8
percent in the current fiscal year.  Rising fuel prices are adding to gains in the benchmark
wholesale-price index. Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s biggest
refiner, raised gasoline prices July 23 for the first time in
two months. Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chief economic adviser to
Prime Minister Singh, said last month that he hopes the
government will increase diesel prices “as early as possible.”  “Inflation is likely to edge higher due to risks from
truant monsoons, weak rupee,  oil prices  and the fiscal
deficit,” said  Rohini Malkani , an economist at Citigroup in
Mumbai. “With all the inflation indices way above the RBI’s
comfort zone and given its focus on inflation over growth, it’s
going to be a long wait for monetary easing.”  The cost to lock in borrowing costs for a year in India
using  interest-rate swaps  climbed 26 basis points from a 14-
month low in June to 7.74 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Similar contracts rose 16 basis points to 2.68 percent in
China and fell 33 basis points in Brazil to 7.38 percent.  Real Yields  Rupee-denominated sovereign notes returned 5.9 percent this
year, trailing the 7.2 percent earned by Indonesian securities
in Asia’s best performance, HSBC Holdings Plc indexes show.
Rupiah debt is more attractive than rupee bonds as they offer
higher inflation-adjusted yields, according to Sergey Dergachev,
who helps manage $8.5 billion of emerging-market assets at Union
Investment Privatfonds in  Frankfurt .  Ten-year sovereign debt in India currently  offers  a yield
of 92 basis points after adjusting for consumer-price gains,
compared with 119 in Indonesia, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “In India, inflation is still relatively high and not
fully under control,” Dergachev said by e-mail Aug. 9.
“Indonesia has higher real  interest rates  than India, inflation
seems to be under control and the central bank may cut rates to
stimulate growth.”  ‘Cheapest Currency’  Indian bonds have become more attractive after the rupee
tumbled 18 percent in the past year, Asia’s worst currency
performance that made the nation’s assets cheaper, according to
Aviva Investors Ltd. Relatively high yields add to the appeal of
local-currency securities, according to the  money manager .  The rupee was little changed at 55.2850 per dollar on Aug.
10. Benchmark 10-year sovereign bonds yielded 8.17 percent on
the same day, 653 basis points more than similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. DSP
Blackrock Investment Managers Ltd., the local unit of the
world’s biggest money manager, predicted last week the yield
will rise to 8.4 percent in three months on the risk of faster
inflation.  “The rupee has become the cheapest currency in Asia and
bond yields are now very high compared to the whole world,”
 Kieran Curtis , who helps oversee $4 billion in emerging-market
debt at Aviva Investors, said in an e-mail on Aug. 9.  Demand for Indian bonds may slow as inflation risks prompt
a delay in monetary easing and the government boosts debt sales
to meet a record borrowing target, according to Nomura, Japan’s
largest brokerage.  The finance ministry plans to borrow 5.69 trillion rupees
($103 billion) this fiscal year, according to budget estimates.
It raised a total 150 billion rupees on Aug. 10 selling
securities maturing in 2017, 2022, 2030 and 2036, according to
the central bank.  “We are looking at back-loaded interest-rate cuts now,
given inflationary concerns,” said Vivek Rajpal, a fixed-income
strategist in Mumbai at Nomura. “Investors are probably in no
hurry to buy bonds given the current debt-supply environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  