-- Olympics End With Ceremony Featuring Spice Girls, The Who
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-08-12T23:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/u-k-brings-down-olympic-curtain-with-spice-girls-the-who.html
Britain celebrated its most
successful Olympics since 1908 with a closing ceremony last
night that included The Who, Prince Harry and the Spice Girls.  The host nation finished third in the medals table with
65 medals, including 29 gold, as  London  became the only city 
to have organized the Summer Games three times.  “On the first day of these games, I said we were
determined to get it right,” Sebastian Coe, chairman of the
London 2012 organizing committee, told the 80,000 spectators at
London’s Olympic Stadium. “I said that these games would see
the best of us. When our time came -- Britain, we did it
right.”  The U.S. topped the medal standings with 46 golds and 104
in total. China was second with 38 golds among its 87 medals.
Gold medals were awarded in 15 events yesterday, the last won by
Lithuania’s Laura Asadauskaite in the women’s modern pentathlon.  “You have shown the world the best of British
hospitality,” International Olympic Committee President  Jacques Rogge  said as he declared the games closed. “These were happy
and glorious games.”  Directed by Kim Gavin, the London closing ceremony was “a
celebration of all that’s good about London, British people, our
music and our culture,” according to organizers.  There were performances by comedian  Russell Brand ,
ballerina Darcey Bussell, DJ Fatboy Slim,  Annie Lennox , Madness,
 George Michael , the Pet Shop Boys, the Spice Girls, Take That
and The Who. They were supported by a cast of 3,500 volunteers,
representing every continent.  To honor the origins of the Olympics, the Greek flag was
raised and its national anthem played for the hand-over ceremony
to the Rio 2016 organizing committee.  After the Olympic flag was lowered by members of Britain’s
armed forces, it was handed over by London Mayor  Boris Johnson 
to International Olympic Committee president Jacques Rogge, who
presented it to Eduardo Paes, mayor of  Rio de Janeiro .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at London’s Olympic Park at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  