-- U.S. Retains Basketball Gold With 107-100 Win Against Spain
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-12T18:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/u-s-retains-men-s-basketball-gold-with-107-100-win-over-spain.html
Kevin Durant  scored a game-high 30
points as the U.S. beat Spain 107-100 to successfully defend the
men’s basketball gold medal at the London Olympics.  LeBron James  of the National Basketball Association-
champion  Miami Heat  added 19 points and  Kobe Bryant  of the  Los
Angeles  Lakers had 17 for the U.S.  Pau Gasol  of the Lakers led
Spain with 24 points.  James, 27, heads into the 2012-13 NBA season with a sweep
of titles available to him, adding the Olympic gold medal to
last season’s NBA championship, along with the Most Valuable
Player awards for the regular season and the league finals
against Durant’s Oklahoma City Thunder.  “Hopefully I was able to represent my country the right
way and do it with such a great team,” James told reporters at
the North Greenwich Arena. “I played with one of the best
teams, if not the best team, ever assembled.”  Spain led late in the third quarter and trailed by one
point as the final period began. The U.S. outscored Spain 24-18
in the final 10 minutes to put the game away.  James scored five consecutive points in the final three
minutes, including a 3-pointer against  Marc Gasol  that
effectively took the game away from the Spaniards.  “It was a big shot, but there was a lot of big shots in
our game, not just mine,” said James. “There was a bunch of
big plays offensively and defensively.”  3-Point Shooting  The U.S. hit 15 of 37 3-point shots, while Spain made just
seven of 19.  The Americans have won 14 gold medals in the 17 Olympic
tournaments they’ve entered and were undefeated in London.
Today’s match reprised their  2008 victory  when they beat Spain
118-107 to win the gold. Spain got within two points late in
that game before the U.S. pulled away.  In the 2008 final  Spain  “really tested us more than any
team,” said James. “We felt like that was going to happen
again tonight. They’re a great team and they wanted
redemption.”  Spain won five of the eight games they played in the
tournament. The team struggled to manage injuries of key players
throughout the London Games, coach Sergio Scariolo said on Aug.
10.  “We did what we could,” said Spain’s Sergio Fernandez,
who had seven points and six assists in the final. “Even if we
had a bad day, we were close to them until the end. After two
months without playing well a single complete game, it was
difficult to make it today. We did fine in the first half.”  Last Loss  The U.S. last lost at the games in the 2004 semifinals,
when  Argentina  won 89-81, going on to claim gold. Basketball
debuted at the 1936 Berlin games.  The only time the U.S. has lost in the Olympic final was in
the disputed 1972 gold-medal game when the  Soviet Union  won
51-50.  Spain and the U.S. had met in two previous finals, with the
U.S. winning in Beijing as well as in Los Angeles in 1984, when
the Americans won 96-65.  Olympic basketball admitted professionals after the Seoul
Games in 1988. Dave Gavitt, the head of USA Basketball at the
time, said the move “put the puck on our stick” by allowing
top players from the NBA to go for gold.  ‘Dream Team’  In 1992, the first games with the pros in place, the U.S.
fielded the “Dream Team,’ featuring future Hall of Fame players
such as  Michael Jordan ,  Magic Johnson  and  Larry Bird .  It crushed the field and easily won the gold medal in
 Barcelona , and repeated the performance with undefeated runs in
Atlanta in 1996 and Sydney in 2000.  With the Olympic spotlight increasing, other nations
started producing NBA-caliber players, if not whole teams. At
the Athens Games in 2004, the U.S. lost for the first time with
NBA players in the lineup -- twice, in fact -- and took the
bronze. Those losses led USA Basketball to change its selection
process and put together a long-term national squad, not just an
Olympic roster, to learn to play as a team under international
rules.  The change worked. The ‘‘Redeem Team,’’ with James and
Bryant leading the way, stormed through the tournament in
Beijing four years ago and beat Spain in the gold-medal game.  James, part of the 2004 team, said the second consecutive
gold medal was a mark that things had been put right, saying he
and his teammates failed to realize the standard required to
perform at an Olympics in the past.  ‘‘There was definitely a different attitude toward the game
and toward what it meant to really represent your country,’’ he
said. ‘‘I don’t think we all understood that. I just think we
were putting on the uniform and thought we could just come
together in two, three weeks and go out there and win because we
had great individuals.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  