-- U.S. Gets Basketball Gold, Tops Medals; Kiprotich Wins Marathon
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-08-12T23:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/uganda-s-stephen-kiprotich-wins-men-s-marathon-at-olympic-games.html
Kevin Durant  scored a game-high 30
points as the U.S. beat Spain 107-100 to retain its Olympic
men’s basketball title. Marathon runner Stephen Kiprotich won
Uganda’s first gold in the games for 40 years.  The U.S. topped the medal standings with 46 golds and 104
in total. China was second with 38 golds among its 87 medals.
Gold medals were awarded in 15 events yesterday, the last to
Lithuania’s Laura Asadauskaite in the women’s modern pentathlon.  LeBron James  of the National Basketball Association-
champion  Miami Heat  added 19 points and  Kobe Bryant  of the  Los
Angeles Lakers  had 17 for the U.S. against Spain.  Pau Gasol  of
the Lakers led the silver medalists with 24 points on the final
day of the  London  games.  Spain  led late in the third quarter and trailed by one
point as the final period began. The U.S. outscored Spain 24-18
in the final 10 minutes to put the game away. The Americans have
won 14 gold medals in the 17 Olympic tournaments they’ve entered
and were undefeated in London.  Russia  beat Argentina 81-77 for
the bronze medal.  It was the U.S.’s second straight win over Spain in the
Olympic final.  “We have an incredible team, we love when it gets tight,”
James said. “That’s when our will and determination shows. It
was the same in 2008 when we played against those guys, who are
a great team and much respect to them.”  Uganda Gold  Kiprotich’s victory in the marathon was  Uganda ’s first
Olympic gold since John Akii-Bua in the men’s 400-meter hurdles
at the 1972 games in Munich, and just its second in history.  Kiprotich, 23, covered the 26.2-mile (42.2-kilometer) race
in 2 hours, 8 minutes, 1 second. Kenyans Abel Kirui, the world
champion, and Wilson Kipsang Kiprotich were second and third.  “It means a lot,” Kiprotich said in a televised
interview, having taken a Ugandan flag from a spectator and
draped it over his shoulders in the closing meters. “I’m very
happy to become the second Ugandan to win an Olympic gold
medal.”  Kiprotich broke away from Kirui and Kipsang Kiprotich about
three miles from the end and never looked like he would
relinquish the advantage, finishing 26 seconds ahead. Kipsang
Kiprotich, this year’s London Marathon winner, had taken the
lead earlier but dropped back to finish 1:36 behind.  Thousands of spectators thronged the side of the course,
which began and ended on the Mall near Buckingham Palace and
included landmarks such as the Houses of Parliament,  St. Paul’s
Cathedral  and the Tower of London.  Joshua Victory  Britain’s Anthony Joshua won the gold medal in the men’s
super-heavyweight boxing class, beating defending champion
Roberto Cammarelle of  Italy  after making up a three-point
deficit in the final round. Joshua kept the verdict after an
appeal by the Italian.  “There are no easy fights in these Olympics and I’ve
pulled it out of the bag,” Joshua told the British Broadcasting
Corp. “That medal represents my journey and the support from
the team. It’s much more than just a gold medal, it’s a life
experience and I’m just proud to have it round my neck.”  Britain finished third with 29 gold medals and 65 in all,
its best total since 1908.  Cuba’s Robeisy Ramirez Carrazana won the flyweight gold,
beating Tugstsogt Nyambayar of Mongolia on points. Vasyl
Lomachenko of Ukraine took the lightweight gold, beating
Soonchul Han of South Korea.  Kazakhstan’s Serik Sapiyev defeated Britain’s Freddie Evans
in the welterweight event. Russia’s Egor Mekhontcev beat
Kazakhstan’s Adilbek Niyazymbetov in the light-heavyweight
category.  Russia’s Got Rhythm  In rhythmic gymnastics, Russia beat Belarus and Italy to
win the gold medal.  Japan’s Tatsuhiro Yonemitsu won the wrestling gold medal in
the men’s 66-kilogram freestyle category. Jake Varner of the
U.S. won the 96kg division.  Russia beat Brazil 3-2 for the men’s volleyball gold medal,
and Jaroslav Kulhavy of the  Czech Republic  won the men’s
mountain bike competition.  France beat Sweden 22-21 in the men’s handball final and
Croatia beat Italy 8-6 in water polo.  Asadauskaite won the women’s modern pentathlon to close the
competition. Samantha Murray of Britain was second and Yane
Marques of Brazil third.  The next summer  Olympic Games  are in Rio de Janeiro in
2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  