-- What Would Henry Adams Say About Sheldon Adelson?
-- B y   A d a m   K i r s c h
-- 2012-08-12T22:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/what-would-henry-adams-say-about-sheldon-adelson-.html
No one can complain that we haven’t
had enough stories about politics.  But those stories are almost always news stories, in
newspapers or on television or on the Internet. They bring us
the latest developments in the political world, but they are
usually powerless to show those developments in a larger human
perspective.  For that deeper story, we traditionally turn to fiction.
Today, however, the best American novelists seldom write about
politics, either in the narrow sense of describing elections and
controversies, or the larger sense of examining our beliefs
about how the country should be governed. (One novel that did,
 Jonathan Franzen ’s “Freedom,” became a huge bestseller --
perhaps a sign that readers are hungry for fiction that reports
this kind of news.)  This campaign season, then, is a good time to return to the
classic American political novels -- a small but distinguished
group of books that capture the perennial moral conflicts that
still drive American politics today.  If there is one thing about the 2012 election that everyone
agrees on, it is that the role of money is unprecedented. The
 Supreme Court ’s decision in Citizens United, the usual story
goes, threw open the floodgates for corporate donations, making
it possible for rich companies and individuals to bypass the old
campaign-finance rules.  Campaign Money  The major players in this election year have been not just
the candidates, but also their donors -- from  Sheldon Adelson ,
who kept  Newt Gingrich ’s primary challenge alive for so long and
who is now throwing money toward  Mitt Romney , to  Penny Pritzker ,
whose reluctance to reprise her 2008 role as a major Obama
fundraiser has Democrats concerned.  It comes as something of a surprise, then, to be reminded
that the first great novel about American politics --
“Democracy” by Henry Adams, which appeared in 1880 -- is all
about the corrupting role of money in party politics.
“Democracy” follows the political education of Madeleine Lee,
a wealthy, fashionable  New York  widow who decides to move to
 Washington . Her goal is not -- or, at least, not consciously --
to make social conquests and gain personal power; it is, rather,
to learn firsthand how America is ruled.  “She wanted to see with her own eyes the action of primary
forces; to touch with her own hand the massive machinery of
society; to measure with her own mind the capacity of the motive
power,” Adams wrote. “She was bent upon getting to the heart
of the great American mystery of democracy and government.”  What Madeleine learns is that power, in Washington, does
not reside where the textbooks tell us to look.  “To her mind the Senate was a place where people went to
recite speeches, and she naively assumed that the speeches were
useful and had a purpose,” Adams wrote. “This is a very common
conception of Congress; many Congressmen share it.”  In fact, not even the newly elected president -- a
nonentity to whom Adams doesn’t even bother giving a name -- is
in control of events. Power lies behind the scenes, with a
handful of party leaders and congressional barons who control
the money that wins elections.  Foremost among these is “the Prairie Giant of Peonia, the
Favorite Son of Illinois … the Honorable Silas P. Ratcliffe,” a
pompous senator who easily insinuates himself into the new
president’s Cabinet and consolidates all the real power in his
own hands. Ratcliffe is able to act effectively because he never
even pretends that politics is an honest business.  Villain Exposed  “The beauty of his work,” Adams wrote, “consisted in the
skill with which he evaded questions of principle. As he wisely
said, the issue now involved was not one of principle but of
power. … Their principle must be the want of principles.”  Ratcliffe is undoubtedly the novel’s villain. But Adams
makes it impossible for Madeleine, or the reader, to make a
simple judgment about him. Early in the novel, Ratcliffe boasts
about having stolen a state election during the Civil War. It is
something that could send a politician to jail. Yet as Ratcliffe
frames it, the choice was between committing a crime and saving
his state for the  Republican Party  and the Union, or losing it
and allowing defeatist Democrats to jeopardize the war effort.
Seen this way, Madeleine can’t help but applaud Ratcliffe’s
ruthlessness.  But her readiness to compromise, to agree that the ends in
politics justify the means, leaves her vulnerable to the much
greater trap that Ratcliffe sets for her at the novel’s end.
Ratcliffe is determined to marry Madeleine, and she is prepared
to accept him, when a rival suitor reveals to her that the
senator once took an enormous bribe in exchange for awarding a
government contract.  When Madeleine confronts him, Ratcliffe has a convincing
answer ready. Yes, he took money, but the money was not for
himself -- it was for his party, to pay campaign expenses. And
since what’s good for the party is, to any politician, good for
the country, Ratcliffe’s bribe-taking can be considered a
patriotic act. It was, you might say, simply an unregulated
 campaign contribution .  Madeleine Lee, like the good heroine she is, refuses to
accept Ratcliffe’s excuses. In the novel’s climax, she rejects
his proposal and guards her moral purity. While Adams shows her
making the “right” choice, he also leaves no doubt that by
rejecting Ratcliffe she has cut herself off from the possibility
of wielding effective power. The tragedy of democracy, and of
“Democracy,” Adams suggested, is that a good person cannot
achieve the power necessary to do good in the world.  The tension between truth and idealism is neatly summarized
in an episode where Madeleine and a party of her friends go for
a day trip to  Mount Vernon . They end up discussing the character
of  George Washington , whom Ratcliffe sees as a mediocre man
elevated by circumstances to a legend: “This government can
show to-day a dozen men of equal abilities, but we don’t deify
them.”  Founders’ Flaws  Yet as another character says about Washington: “To us he
is Morality, Justice, Duty, Truth; half a dozen Roman gods with
capital letters.” What is the proper view of Washington, and by
extension of America itself -- the glorious image or the shabby
reality? “Democracy” offers only one answer: Shabbiness reigns.
To know the truth about how the country is governed, Adams
suggested, is to lose any illusions about fairness, honesty and
the public good.  But at least Adams had some illusions to lose. As the
great-grandson of  John Adams  and the grandson of John Quincy
Adams, he was a republican aristocrat who saw himself as the
guardian of America’s best traditions and highest standards. His
failure to achieve anything in politics left him convinced -- as
he wrote in his autobiography, “The Education of Henry Adams”
-- that Gilded Age America had no use for the best, most ethical
men.  Yet the most sobering thing about reading “Democracy”
today is that Ratcliffe’s bribe-taking, which looks to Adams
like a definitive act of evil, wouldn’t be illegal or even
particularly noteworthy under our 21st-century campaign-finance
regime. The idea that lobbyists give money in exchange for
influence and access to politicians, or that industry-financed
groups write the bills that affect their businesses, is so
familiar to us that we hardly even notice it.  Far from being a criminal, deserving to be shunned by
honest people such as Madeleine Lee, a 21st-century Silas
Ratcliffe would be considered simply an effective politician. If
Henry Adams could read the  Citizens United  decision, he would
see in it a confirmation of all his worst prophecies. For us,
reading “Democracy” is a way of glimpsing a more innocent
America, where the idea that money is the lifeblood of politics
still had the power to shock.  (Adam Kirsch is a senior editor at the New Republic and a
columnist for Tablet magazine. He is the author of “Why
Trilling Matters.” The opinions expressed are his own. Read
 Part 2 ,  Part 3 ,  Part 4  and  Part 5  of his series on classic 
political novels.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Adam Kirsch at  adam.kirsch@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 