-- Women on Board Best at P&G as Samsung Trails: Chart
-- B y   L e e   M i l l e r   a n d   F r a n c e s   L i u
-- 2012-08-12T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-12/women-on-board-best-at-p-g-as-samsung-trails-chart.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  is the only
company among the world’s biggest multinationals with at least
40 percent  female board membership , the minimum quota in Norway,
the first nation to pass women-on-board legislation.  The CHART OF THE DAY compares the 50 companies in the Dow
Jones Global Titans Index based on percentage of women
directors, market capitalization, net income and total
employees, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT)  and PepsiCo Inc. are the only other index members
with at least 30 percent female representation on their boards
of directors.  Four so-called titans had no women directors:  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., both based in
Japan, South Korea’s Samsung Electronics Co. and Eni SpA,
Italy’s largest oil producer. The U.S. titan with the lowest
female representation is  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , with 7.7 percent, the
same as London-based BP Plc’s, Bloomberg data show.  Finance Minister  Penny Wong  said last week that improving 
the presence of women in Australia’s boardrooms is an area of 
particular interest to her.  “I hope that, over time, women who start their board 
careers in government will go on to successful careers in 
business and that they become the future leaders of change,” 
she said, according to the text of a speech announcing a 
network to support a goal that government boards be at least 
40 percent female by 2015.  Norway’s quota for most public limited companies started in
2006, according to the website of advocacy group  Women on
Boards . The requirement was designed to match those for
government bodies that dated back about two decades. Gender-
balance legislation is in various stages in Italy, Netherlands,
France, Spain, Belgium and Iceland, with differing targets and
deadlines, according to the  European Professional Women’s
Network .  Only two members of the Global Titans Index, a
capitalization-weighted gauge of the 50 largest multinational
companies, have a female chairman or chief executive officer:
PepsiCo’s Indra Nooyi has both titles and International Business
Machines Corp.’s CEO is Virginia “Ginni” Rometty.  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia , Switzerland’s Nestle SA and France’s Total SA
have top board diversity outside the U.S., each with 27 percent
of female directors, a proportion matched by  Intel Corp . and
Pfizer Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Miller in Bangkok at 
 lmiller@bloomberg.net ;
Frances Liu in  Hong Kong  at 
 fliu20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lee Miller at 
 lmiller@bloomberg.net  