-- T-Mobile US Shares Climb in NYSE Debut Following Merger
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-05-01T20:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/t-mobile-usa-to-debut-on-new-york-stock-exchange-today.html
T-Mobile US Inc., the fourth-biggest
U.S. wireless company, climbed 6 percent in its first day of
trading on the New York Stock Exchange after merging with
 MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) , a smaller rival.  The stock, which trades under the new ticker TMUS, rose to
$16.52 at the close in New York. T-Mobile took the spot of
MetroPCS on the exchange after the reverse merger. The new
company, which also changed its name by dropping the “A” from
T-Mobile USA, will still be located at the carrier’s current
headquarters in Bellevue,  Washington .  The deal gives  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , T-Mobile’s parent, a 74
percent stake in the entity and MetroPCS investors a cash
payment of $1.5 billion, or $4.06 a share, as well as the
remaining stake in the company. T-Mobile Chief Executive Officer
John Legere said today that he welcomed the increased scrutiny
that comes with being a publicly traded stock.  “It will be fun to have people voting on the stock every
day,” Legere said in an interview. “Since we announced the
deal with MetroPCS in October, there’s been so much progress
with the company.”  T-Mobile has more than 40 million customers following the
merger. The MetroPCS deal also gave it a larger holding of
airwave licenses, helping it compete with Verizon Wireless,  AT&T
Inc. (T)  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the industry’s top three.  Sprint Saga  Sprint, meanwhile, is weighing its own deal options. After
SoftBank Corp. agreed to acquire control of the company in a
$20.1 billion transaction, Dish Network Corp. stepped in last
month with a $25.5 billion offer. SoftBank President Masayoshi Son defended his bid yesterday and questioned the ability of
Dish Chairman Charlie Ergen to execute his deal.  Legere said he’s enjoyed watching the two industry
personalities tussle over Sprint.  “Right now, I hope they fight for another year,” Legere
said on Bloomberg Television. “While they are wrestling, what
is not happening is a focus on customers.”  On April 10, bowing to shareholder pressure, Deutsche
Telekom agreed to lower the size and interest rate of its loan
to the joint company. The modified merger terms cut the
shareholder loan to $11.2 billion from $15 billion and trimmed
the interest rate by half a percentage point.  Investor Endorsement  The deal won the endorsement of MetroPCS’s largest
investor, Paulson & Co., as well as two shareholder-advisory
firms in the run-up to the investor vote. On April 24, MetroPCS
shareholders approved the transaction.  T-Mobile has lagged behind peers in constructing faster
networks and it was the last major carrier to sell  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone, which it began offering last month. To turn around the
company, Legere rolled out a new strategy this year that
dispenses with long-term contracts. T-Mobile now offers
smartphones on installment plans, rather than using the typical
subsidies offered by other major carriers.  For Deutsche Telekom CEO Rene Obermann, the deal brings a
successful conclusion to years of travel and negotiations to
find a solution for the company’s U.S. business. A $39 billion
agreement to sell T-Mobile to AT&T collapsed in 2011 because of
opposition by regulators.  While Deutsche Telekom has agreed not to sell the shares on
the market for 18 months, the new T-Mobile will facilitate an
eventual withdrawal from the U.S., people familiar with
Obermann’s plans have said.  Jennifer Fritzsche , an analyst with Wells Fargo & Co. in
 Chicago , welcomed the arrival of a publicly traded T-Mobile US
to the market in a note this week.  “We have a new guest at the party,” Fritzsche wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  