-- Acura, Inthinc, Boston Beer, Opera: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-05-01T10:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/acura-inthinc-boston-beer-opera-intellectual-property.html
Acura Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ACUR) , whose
technology helps deter drug abuse, sued  Ranbaxy Laboratories
Ltd. (RBXY) , India’s largest drugmaker, over its plan to market a
generic version of the painkiller Oxecta.  Acura, based in Palatine,  Illinois , claimed New Delhi-based
Ranbaxy wrongly plans to market a copy of the short-acting
oxycodone pill before Acura’s patent expires in 2025, according
to papers filed April 29 in federal court in Delaware.  “Acura will be substantially and irreparably harmed by
Ranbaxy’s infringing activities” unless stopped by a judge,
according to the complaint.  Ranbaxy reported about $2.2 billion in sales for fiscal
2012. Acura listed about $20 million in fiscal 2011 sales and a
net loss last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Charles M. Caprariello, a U.S. spokesman for Ranbaxy,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on the lawsuit.  In dispute is patent 7,510,726, issued in March 2009.  The case is Acura v. Ranbaxy, 13-cv-00750, U.S. District
Court, District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  Inthinc Settles Suit With SpeedGauge Over Fleet Management  Inthinc Inc., a Utah company whose technology centers on
fleet management, and  San Francisco ’s SpeedGauge Inc. settled
their patent dispute, according to an April 25 court filing.  SpeedGauge sued Inthinc in federal court in San Diego in
April 2011, claiming its patent 7,356,392 was infringed by
Inthinc’s waySmart and tiwi products and services. The patent,
issued in April 2008, covers a system and method for evaluating
vehicle and operator performance.  The San Francisco company had sought an order barring
uncompensated use of its patented technology and awards of money
damages, attorney fees and litigation costs, in addition to a
“reasonable royalty.”  The court filing doesn’t list terms of the settlement,
other than saying that each party will pay its own legal fees
and litigation costs. Inthinc said in a statement that while the
settlement is confidential, the company wasn’t required to make
any payment to SpeedGauge for dismissal of the suit.  The case is SpeedGauge Inc., v. Inthinc Technology
Solutions Inc., 11-cv-00809, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  California  (San Diego).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Samuel Adams Brewer Seeks ‘Boston Strong’ Trademark for Beer  Boston Beer Co. (SAM) , the maker of Samuel Adams beers, filed an
application to register “Boston strong,” according to the
database of the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office .  The April 22 application specifies that the mark will be
used for beer. The phrase has become a slogan for the city’s
response to the April 15 bombings at the finish line of the
Boston Marathon. The brewery, a longtime sponsor of the race,
already makes a seasonal “ Boston 26.2 Brew ” in honor of the
event.  By yesterday, eight U.S. applications had been filed to
register “Boston strong.”  One application is for “Boston Strong Coffee,” filed
April 22 by  Meahuna Coffee Co.  of Tewksbury, Massachusetts. In a
statement on its website, the company  said  it will be known as
“Boston Strong Coffee,” and that from April 15 forward, 6.17
percent of all of its sales will go to onefundBoston.org, a
charity set up to assist those affected by the bombing and
related events.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Craigslist Can Sue App Developer Over Data Use, Judge Says  Craigslist, the free online classified-ad service, can sue
application platform developer 3Taps Inc. under a federal
computer-fraud law for gaining unauthorized access to its
website, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer in San Francisco
yesterday denied 3Taps’ bid to throw out that and other claims
by Craigslist. He did dismiss copyright claims against 3Taps
involving some user-created posts and granted defendant
PadMapper’s request to dismiss Craigslist’s civil-conspiracy
claims.  On its website, 3Taps calls itself a “data harvesting
platform dedicated to keeping public facts publicly
accessible.” The company collects, organizes and distributes
data for developer use.  Craigslist, based in San Francisco, sued 3Taps last year,
alleging it copied content posted on the website in real time in
violation of computer fraud, copyright and trademark law.  The case is Craigslist Inc. v. 3Taps Inc., 12-cv-03816,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  Belgian Copyright Agency Sues for Fees From Internet Providers  Sabam , the Belgian Society of Authors, Composers and
Publishers, filed a copyright lawsuit against the country’s
principal  Internet service providers  over fees for content,
Telecompaper News  reported .  The suit was filed after Sabam unsuccessfully tried to
negotiate fees with  Belgacom SA (BELG) , Telenet NV and Voo, according
to Telecompaper.  Sabam is asking for 3.4 percent of the fees subscribers pay
for  Internet access , Telecompaper reported.  The suit, filed in Brussels, is part of what Sabam said is
a movement toward the inclusion of Internet service providers as
part of the copyright-use system in  Europe , according to the
news service.  Kenya to Set Up Academy Aimed at IP Promotion, Official Says  The head of  Kenya ’s  Industrial Property Institute  said his
nation needs to put more resources into the promotion and
protection of  intellectual property , Nairobi’s  Daily Nation 
 reported .  Paul Lilan, who heads the institute, was speaking at an
event to mark World Intellectual Property Day, according to the
newspaper.  He said that even though IP is important to Kenya’s
development, the country devoted virtually no resources to
promote it, the newspaper reported.  His agency, with the support of Kenya’s  Ministry of
Industrialization and Enterprise Development , will set up an
academy devoted to intellectual property, Lilan said, according
to the Daily Nation.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Opera Software Sues Ex-Employee Over Trade Secrets, CNet Says  Norway’s  Opera Software ASA (OPERA)  sued a former employee,
claiming he gave some of its  trade secrets  to Mozilla Corp.,
CNet News  reported .  The company is seeking damages of 20 million kroner ($3.5
million), claiming the ex-employee violated contractual
agreements, according to CNet.  Trond Werner Hansen, the former employee, said in a blog
post that he disagreed with Opera and can prove his case, CNet
reported.  Mozilla, the  Mountain View , California-based creator of the
Firefox Web browser, said in a statement that it’s not being
sued and that Hansen -- an independent contractor -- is no
longer affiliated with entity, according to CNet News.  U.S. Urged by Fiorina to Press China Over Cyber, IP Protections  The U.S. should press China to improve protections for
intellectual property rights and block cyber intrusions by its
nationals, former  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Chief Executive Officer
 Carly Fiorina  said.  “There is no question that the massive amount of hacking
that’s going on in this country is state-sponsored,” Fiorina
said yesterday at the Bloomberg Link Washington Summit. “I say
that as someone with clearances.”  The U.S. should also encourage China to increase its
participation in dealing with worldwide challenges, including
global warming, said Fiorina, now chairman of  Good360 , an
Alexandria, Virginia-based philanthropic organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  