-- ADM Profit Misses Estimates After Drought Hurts U.S. Crops
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-05-01T21:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/adm-profit-misses-estimates-after-drought-hurts-u-s-crop-supply.html
Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , the
world’s largest corn processor, reported first-quarter profit
that missed analysts’ estimates as U.S. crop supplies declined
after last year’s drought.  Net income fell to $269 million, or 41 cents a share, from
$399 million, or 60 cents, a year earlier, the Decatur,
Illinois-based company said today in a statement. Profit
excluding inventory costs and provisions made in connection with
a bribery investigation was 48 cents, compared with the 50-cent
average of nine estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales increased to $21.7 billion from $21.2 billion,
compared with the $21.6 billion average of seven estimates.  “This was a challenging quarter, with agricultural
services negatively impacted by the ongoing effects of last
summer’s U.S. drought,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Patricia Woertz said in the statement.  ADM processes grains including corn into ethanol and
sweeteners, and soybeans into animal feed and oil, as well as
trading and transporting agricultural commodities. Smaller crops
have reduced the volumes processed at its plants and raised
costs. U.S. farmers in 2012 reaped the smallest corn crop in six
years amid the worst drought since the 1930s. Soybean output
fell for a third straight year, according to Department of
Agriculture data.  FCPA Talks  The company said in November it was in talks with the
 Department of Justice  and Securities and Exchange Commission
over possible violation of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act. ADM said today it expects a resolution to the discussions
this year and made a $25 million provision to cover potential
assessments that may be imposed.  ADM fell 1.7 percent to $33.01 in New York at 5:18 p.m.
after regular trading ended.  The company will say whether it will move forward with its
bid to buy  Australia ’s  GrainCorp Ltd. (GNC)  before the end of its
first-quarter earnings call later today, according to ADM. The
company said April 25 it won agreement to buy the Australian
crop handler for A$2.2 billion ($2.3 billion).  (ADM scheduled a conference call at 6 p.m.  New York  time,
which can be accessed at  http://bit.ly/Yc3UWz .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  