-- Airport Projects Imperiled by Congress’ FAA Furlough Fix
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-05-02T19:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/airport-projects-imperiled-by-congress-faa-furlough-fix.html
The law that ended furloughs of U.S.
air-traffic controllers covers most of the cost largely by
taking about $250 million from airport construction-project
funding this fiscal year, according to trade groups.  The cash will come from an account intended to finance work
such as safety improvements and pavement repairs, said Todd Hauptli, head of the American Association of Airport Executives’
Airport Legislative Alliance, based in Alexandria, Virginia.  “The impacts will definitely be felt by airports,” he
said in an interview. “This is not an insignificant cut.”  The cut means fewer construction jobs at airports this year
and sets a precedent that Federal Aviation Administration
 Airport Improvement Program  money can be redirected to deal with
agency cash shortages, according to Hauptli and Debbie McElroy,
executive vice president for policy and external affairs at
Airports Council International-North America. Congress passed
the legislation April 26.  “This must be the first and only time AIP funding is used
for FAA operations,” the Washington-based Airports Council said
in an April 30 letter to agency Administrator Michael Huerta.
“We will adamantly oppose this practice in the future.”  Bill Signing  President  Barack Obama  signed the measure yesterday,
letting the FAA transfer $253 million within its budget to end
the unpaid time off that led to thousands of flight delays.
Huerta had said the furloughs were necessary to cut $637 million
in spending under the across-the-board  federal budget  reductions
known as sequestration. About 15,000 controllers were affected.  The legislation says the agency can use airport improvement
money or funds from “any other program or account” as needed.  All employee furloughs were suspended April 27, according
to a statement from the FAA. The agency hasn’t said where it
will get the money needed for the action. It also hasn’t said
whether 149 airport towers operated by private contractors will
be closed June 15, as scheduled.  While specifics haven’t been released, agency officials
have said in discussions that the bulk of the funds to prevent
the unpaid time off for controllers will come from airport-
improvement grant money, Hauptli said.  The Baton Rouge Metropolitan Airport in  Louisiana  plans to
request $1.6 million this year from the FAA to repave an area
where planes park, Anthony Marino, the East Baton Rouge Parish
director of aviation, said in an interview. If the money doesn’t
arrive, the airport’s federal funding would be cut more than 20
percent, Marino said.  Funding Reliance  The facility, with an annual budget of $13 million, has
become accustomed to getting FAA funds each year, Marino said.  “Somebody at the end of the list is going to lose some
projects,” he said. “I just hope it isn’t going to be us.”  The program is funded by taxes and fees on airline tickets
and aviation fuel that are exempt from sequestration cuts.  The $253 million that could be taken away from airport
improvements is 7.5 percent of the $3.35 billion allotted by the
program for projects this year. The effect of the cuts may be
much larger on some airports than others, according to Hauptli
and McElroy.  Most grants are awarded by formulas to eligible facilities
and those will be distributed as planned, Hauptli said. The $253
million will come from a $400 million to $450 million account
used for discretionary project funding, he said.  Tower Letter  U.S. Senator Susan Collins, the Maine Republican who is the
ranking member of the chamber’s appropriations transportation
subcommittee, said on the Senate floor April 25 that the AIP
program had sufficient funds to support the transfer.  “This is a common-sense solution,” said Collins, a co-
sponsor of the measure. “It doesn’t involve additional money.
It is a one-time shift of unused moneys. It does not make a
permanent change in the Airport Improvement Program.”  Forty-one senators signed a letter today to Huerta and
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood asking that they also use
shifted money to keep operating 149 airport towers operated by
private contractors. The towers are scheduled to close June 15.  While the $253 million FAA can now transfer within its
accounts would cover the cost of keeping the towers open, the
new law didn’t explicitly address those facilities. The FAA
hasn’t said what it plans to do with the towers.  “Congressional intent is clear: the FAA should prevent the
slated closure of 149 contract towers,” the senators said the
letter.  The letter campaign was organized by Senators Jerry Moran,
a Kansas Republican, and Richard Blumenthal, a Connecticut
Democrat, according to statements from their offices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in  Washington  at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 