-- Takeda Gets $6.5 Million Diabetes-Drug Verdict Thrown Out
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-05-01T21:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/takeda-gets-6-5-million-diabetes-drug-verdict-thrown-out.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502)  persuaded a
judge to throw out a $6.5 million jury verdict over its Actos
diabetes drug because lawyers for a California man didn’t
produce sufficient evidence to show his cancer was caused by the
medication.  Judge  Kenneth Freeman  in state court in  Los Angeles  ruled
today Jack Cooper’s attorneys weren’t able to properly link the
former telephone-company worker’s bladder cancer to his Actos
use and jurors shouldn’t have had a chance to return their
verdict against  Asia ’s largest drugmaker. It was the first of
more than 3,000 lawsuits over the medication to go to trial.  Testimony from a doctor who concluded Cooper’s Actos use
caused his bladder cancer turned out to be “inherently
unreliable” and that justified throwing the case out, Freedman
said in a 27-page ruling.  The verdict came almost three months after Takeda won U.S.
regulatory approval for  Nesina , a diabetes drug to replace
Actos, which lost patent protection last year. Actos  sales 
peaked in the year ended March 2011 at $4.5 billion, or 27
percent of Takeda’s revenue at the time, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We agree with the court’s finding that Mr. Cooper’s
allegations were not supported by the evidence,”  Kenneth
Greisman , general counsel for Takeda’s U.S. unit, said in a
telephone interview today.  Law Misinterpreted?  Takeda faces more than 3,000  suits  alleging Actos caused
bladder cancer or other ailments, according to court records.
Cooper’s suit was among those gathered before Freeman in Los
Angeles. Other cases are in state court in  Illinois .  More than 1,200 suits have been consolidated before a
federal judge in  Louisiana  for pretrial information exchanges.
The first federal case is set for trial in January, according to
court filings.  Michael Miller , one of Cooper’s lawyers, said he would
appeal Freeman’s post-verdict ruling throwing out the case.  “We believe the court has misinterpreted the law and feel
confident the decision will be reversed,” Miller said in a
telephone interview.  Former Actos users contend in court filings Takeda
researchers ignored or downplayed concerns about the drug’s
cancer-causing potential before it went on sale in the U.S. in
1999, and misled U.S. regulators about the medicine’s risks.  Cooper, 79, took the drug for more than four years before
being diagnosed with bladder cancer in 2011. He worked as a
cable splicer for Pacific Bell telephone, according to court
filings.  January Trial  Takeda’s lawyers argued during the almost two-month trial
that Cooper was more likely to develop bladder cancer because he
was an elderly male former smoker who suffered from diabetes.
That placed him in high-risk categories for the disease
regardless of his Actos use, the company’s attorneys told
jurors.  Takeda is scheduled to face an Actos trial in January that
is part of the consolidation of cases before a federal  judge  in
Louisiana, according to court filings.  Mark Lanier , who won a $253 million verdict against Merck
in 2005 in the first trial over the company’s withdrawn Vioxx
painkiller, is slated to try the case for plaintiff Ida St.
John.  The Los Angeles case is Cooper v. Takeda Pharmaceuticals
America Inc., CGC-12-518535, California Superior Court (Los
Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  