-- Talisman Reports Quarterly Loss on Reduced Production
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-05-01T13:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/talisman-reports-first-quarter-loss-on-reduced-production.html
(Corrects month in fourth paragraph.)  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) , the Canadian oil
and natural gas producer seeking to sell as much as $3 billion
in assets, reported a first-quarter loss for the first time in
two years on lower production.  The net loss of $213 million compared with profit of $291
million a year earlier, the Calgary-based company said in a
statement on Marketwired today. Excluding one-time items, the
loss of 6 cents a share compared with the 1.5-cent average
profit of 18  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Production averaged 372,000 barrels of oil equivalent a
day, down 5 percent from the previous quarter and 19 percent
from the year-earlier period.  Hal Kvisle, the company’s chief executive officer since
September, said in March he’s seeking to raise as much as $3
billion from asset sales or joint ventures over the next 12 to
18 months as Talisman reduces debt and cuts spending on gas
production.  “They need to rationalize and focus on higher-return
projects,” Chris Feltin, a Calgary-based analyst at Macquarie
Group Ltd., said in an April 29 phone interview. Talisman’s sale
of 49 percent of its U.K. North Sea business to China
Petrochemical Corp. in December and the  February shutdown  of an
offshore platform in the region was expected to reduce output
last quarter, Feltin said.  About 62 percent of the company’s 2012 output was gas and
the rest was oil or natural gas liquids. U.S. gas futures traded
in  New York  have recovered after reaching a 10-year low last
year, rising 39 percent from a year earlier to average $3.48 per
million British thermal units during the quarter as cold weather
boosted demand.  Talisman’s results were released before the start of
regular trading on North American markets. The shares rose 1.2
percent to C$12.08 in Toronto yesterday and have eight buy and
18 hold recommendations from  analysts,  according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  