-- Allergan Shares Fall After CEO Says Two Studies Delayed
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-05-01T20:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/allergan-shares-fall-after-ceo-says-drug-trial-will-be-delayed.html
Allergan Inc. (AGN) , the maker of the Botox
wrinkle treatment, fell the most in 13 years after saying it
will delay final studies for drugs to treat age-related macular
degeneration and baldness.  A mid-term trial of the company’s DARPin treatment for
macular degeneration, the leading cause of blindness in the
elderly, failed to find the best way to separate it in final
testing from Roche Holding AG’s Lucentis, Chief Scientific
Officer Scott Whitcup said today on a conference call. A study
of bimatoprost showed insufficient hair growth and Allergan
plans to test a formulation that’s 10 times stronger, he said.  The announcements mark a delay for the  Irvine , California-
based company’s two most important products in mid-stage
development, Chris Schott, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
 New York , wrote today to investors. Clarity on DARPin won’t be
available for about six months, while the magnitude of the dose
increase for bimatoprost is “less than encouraging,” he said.  “We believe these updates are clearly disappointing and
remove a potential significant catalyst from the story at least
for the next one to two years,” Schott said. “That said, we
believe Allergan’s current portfolio supports one of the best
growth profiles in our coverage universe.”  The third and final stage of testing usually required for
regulatory approval is “hugely” expensive, particularly for
drugs to treat age-related macular degeneration, Whitcup said.
The final study needs to be meticulously designed, he said.  Cautious Stance  “We are being cautious and considered,” David Pyott,
Allergan’s chief executive officer, said of DARPin on the
conference call. “When we go into Phase 3 we want to have
everything worked out to increase the probability of success.”  Allergan tumbled 13 percent to $98.67 at the close in New
York, the biggest single-day decline since July 1999, with 14
times more shares traded than the average three-month volume.
 Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN) , which makes Eylea, an eye
medicine that may gain a competitor in Allergan’s treatment,
increased 10 percent to $237.29.  Allergan plans to add another arm to the existing trial to
further evaluate the drug starting in the third quarter, Whitcup
said. Those findings should be ready by the end of next year.
The current study results will be presented at an  American
Academy  of Ophthalmology meeting in November.  Delay Approval  The additional DARPin research will delay approval of the
medication by one to two years, Pyott said. The slower pace of
development won’t hinder the company’s ability to post  earnings 
growth, he said.  “Based on the enormous number of products we have
approved, nine since the beginning of 2010 and another three on
tap for the remainder of 2013, we believe this is sufficient for
our strategic plan to deliver mid-teens earnings-per-share
growth,” Pyott said.  The company, which generated $1.5 billion last year in  cash
flow , is “always looking” for acquisitions and partnerships to
supplement internal growth, he said.  Whitcup said the studies on both drugs produced encouraging
results. The DARPin data suggested the medicine looks different
than Lucentis and provided enough information to continue
testing, he said. He declined to say whether the benefits of the
therapy were greater or lasted longer than Lucentis.  Hair Growth  The bimatoprost study showed it spurred some hair growth,
though not enough, he said. Allergan, which previously said the
medicine may be a $1 billion a year drug, is testing the higher
dose so it doesn’t prove the treatment is equal to generically
available rivals, he said. While the original data was easier to
pull together for men, the company will also re-evaluate the
treatment for women, Whitcup said.  “It makes sense to focus on where the data were clearest
and where the pathway is the most well-defined,” he said.  Earlier, Allergan announced it is evaluating offers for its
obesity treatment unit, including the Lap-Band weight loss
product, and expects to sell the unit by the middle of the year.  Separately, a U.S. appeals court today  upheld  a patent that
would keep generic versions of Allergan’s glaucoma treatment
Combigan off the market until 2022. The patent covers a way to
combine the eye treatments Alphagan with Timoptic into a
medicine that’s given twice a day without any loss of efficacy.  Another patent, which expires in 2023, is invalid because
the combination of specific amounts of the two drugs would have
been obvious to researchers, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit in  Washington  ruled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  