-- Allstate Profit Falls 7.4% on Catastrophe Costs
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-05-01T22:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/allstate-profit-falls-7-4-on-catastrophe-costs.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the largest publicly
traded U.S. car and home insurer, said first-quarter profit fell
7.4 percent as costs tied to the most expensive storms rose.  Net income slipped to $709 million, or $1.47 a share, from
$766 million, or $1.53, a year earlier, according to a statement
yesterday from the Northbrook, Illinois-based company. Operating
profit, which excludes some investment results, beat by 5 cents
the $1.30  estimate  of 22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Tom Wilson, 55, has been raising
prices for some coverage and changing policy terms to improve
underwriting profit at Allstate’s main unit, which sells
residential and auto coverage under the insurer’s namesake
brand. That’s helped boost returns as he seeks to generate
better results at a life unit pressured by low  interest rates 
and spends to expand online car-insurance seller Esurance.  “The Allstate brand is starting to rebuild after having to
get smaller because of the catastrophe changes we need to
make,” Wilson said in a phone interview yesterday. “We like
what’s happening there.”  Allstate fell 1.8 percent to $48.40 at 4 p.m. in New York
prior to the announcement, narrowing its advance to 20 percent
this year. The 22-company Standard & Poor’s Insurance Index has
risen 16 percent since Dec. 31.  Catastrophe costs rose to $359 million from $259 million a
year earlier, when the tally included a benefit from reserves
held for events in prior quarters, Allstate said. The insurer
made 6.8 cents for every premium dollar in its property and
liability coverage unit compared with 7.9 cents a year earlier.  Costly Storms  Property-casualty insurers have paid higher claims costs in
recent years as more-severe weather hits the U.S. Superstorm
Sandy, which lashed New York and  New Jersey  six months ago, cost
the industry  $18.8 billion , according to trade group  Insurance
Information Institute . It was the third-most costly storm for
the industry in the country’s history, the group said.  Wilson helped curb Allstate’s losses from such events by
buying reinsurance, raising prices and limiting sales of
homeowners’ coverage in some vulnerable areas.  “I still continue to feel that the choices we made over
the last four or five years have been correct,” he said. “We
decided we needed to reduce our level of exposure to
catastrophes, we needed to change the amount of money we charged
people, and we needed to insure different houses. We’ve done all
three of those.”  Premium revenue in Allstate’s property and liability
business rose to $6.77 billion from $6.63 billion a year earlier
as the company added customers at Esurance.  Allstate’s Portfolio  Low  interest rates  have also reduced income from bond
portfolios backing policyholder liabilities. The  Federal Reserve 
has held borrowing costs near zero and expanded its  balance
sheet  through bond purchases to help stimulate the economy.
Allstate has been selling some longer-term bonds from its
portfolio to lock in gains, Wilson said last year.  The insurer participated in Apple Inc.’s record $17 billion
bond offering this week, Wilson said. He didn’t say which
maturities Allstate purchased or how much it bought. Apple
offered floating-rate notes and fixed-rate securities in six
parts, ranging in duration from three to 30 years.  “Apple’s a good credit,” Wilson said. “We stayed
consistent with our strategy of being short on the maturity
profile rather than going long and stretching for yield.”  Allstate’s  book value , a measure of assets minus
liabilities, advanced to $43.46 a share from $42.39 three months
earlier. The company’s $97.4 billion investment  portfolio 
returned 1.2 percent in the quarter.  The insurer has also been seeking potential buyers for its
Lincoln Benefit Life Co. subsidiary, according to three people
familiar with the matter. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. was engaged
to solicit offers, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the matter isn’t public. Wilson declined to
comment on the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  