-- Ally’s Net Income More Than Triples on Sales of Canadian Assets
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-05-01T12:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/ally-s-net-income-more-than-triples-on-sales-of-canadian-assets.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , the auto lender
majority-owned by U.S. taxpayers, said first-quarter profit more
than tripled, aided by gains from selling assets.  Net income was $1.1 billion, compared with $310 million a
year earlier, the Detroit-based company said today in a
statement. The core pretax loss was $6 million, compared with
core income of $111 million a year earlier. The U.S. owns 74
percent of closely held Ally, which doesn’t report earnings per
share.  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Carpenter  is selling assets
and narrowing the firm’s focus to U.S. auto lending and retail
banking. His goal is to repay the $17.2 billion taxpayer bailout
that gave the government a controlling stake. Carpenter may
pursue an initial public offering if he can protect Ally from
legal claims tied to its Residential Capital unit, which went
bankrupt because of losses on subprime home loans.  Cars and light trucks sold at an average 15.2 million
 annualized rate  in the U.S. during the first quarter, compared
with 15.3 million in the fourth quarter, according to Ward’s
Automotive Group data. Before then, the last time the annual
pace had exceeded 15 million was the fourth quarter of 2007.  Assets Sold  Ally completed the sale last month of contracts for the
right to handle billing and collections on $115 billion in
outstanding mortgages. The deals for so-called servicing rights
with  Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN)  and Quicken Loans Inc. generated
about $850 million in proceeds. Another $2.6 billion came from
selling most of Ally’s operations in Europe and Latin America to
 General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest U.S. automaker.  Ally, formerly known as GMAC Inc., was owned by GM until
2006, when the automaker sold 51 percent to Cerberus Capital
Management LP. GMAC almost collapsed under the weight of bad
 subprime mortgages  during the financial crisis. The U.S. took
its stake in return for a package of financial aid designed to
keep credit flowing to the  auto industry  and preserve jobs.  Carpenter’s plan for repaying the U.S. has included an IPO,
which was put on hold until ResCap’s  bankruptcy  is closer to
resolution. The 66-year-old CEO has said Ally would be willing
to contribute $750 million to ResCap to insulate the parent
company from legal claims.  ResCap debt holders asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in Manhattan last month for permission to sue Ally, saying
it may be responsible for $25 billion of ResCap’s debt.  Ally also has sparred with the  Federal Reserve , which
rejected the lender’s capital plan after finding that the firm’s
planning process and  capital ratios  didn’t meet standards. The
lender said the central bank’s analysis was “fundamentally
flawed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  