-- Smile, Doctor, You’re on Candid Camera!
-- B y   F o r d   V o x
-- 2013-05-01T22:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/malpractice-reform-would-let-doctors-operate-on-camera.html
In taking steps to reward high-quality
health care and penalize waste, the Affordable Care Act has
opened a new door for technological entrepreneurship in
medicine. A new monitor that automatically reminds doctors to
 wash their hands  before entering patients’ hospital rooms, for
example, could lower the abysmal rate of hospital-acquired
infections in the U.S.  An older technology already installed in most hospitals
could do even more to ensure good health care. Doctors could use
video cameras to record all their procedures. As Martin Makary,
a surgeon at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine and Bloomberg
School of Public Health,  recently argued  in the Journal of the
American Medical Association, this would improve doctors’
performance and enable them to be fully transparent with
patients about their work.  Unfortunately, there is a legal barrier to filming
medicine. Simply put, videos would provide a whole new level of
evidence in malpractice lawsuits, and a rich hunting ground for
trial lawyers on the lookout for big game.  The health-care law could have removed this barrier by
including provisions to reform medical-malpractice laws. That
omission has been a missed opportunity.  Video Value  Consider how useful it would be to have a video record of
your surgery. You could share it with future doctors who might
later treat you. If there were complications and you wanted a
second opinion before going under the knife again, your video
would be invaluable to that second doctor. Even the surgeon on
film would welcome a video review if he or she needed to operate
again years later.  The notion that video recording would improve doctors’
performance is borne out by a study of colonoscopies, as Makary
has pointed out. These procedures were found to be more thorough
when gastroenterologists were told that colleagues would review
a video of their work.  Cameras positioned over hand-washing stations could work as
well as newfangled bracelet monitors. When one Long Island
hospital tried this, its compliance rate shot up to almost 82
percent from 6.5 percent.  Unfortunately, when it comes to recording surgery and other
procedures, America’s litigiousness makes the suggestion
woefully unrealistic. Hospitals and providers couldn’t expect
protection from lawsuits employing this new evidence, as Makary
suggests, simply by declaring “a priori” that videos are made
only for “quality improvement purposes.”  Legal experts whom I have interviewed confirmed this. Lee
J. Johnson, a lawyer in Mount Kisco, New York, warns doctors not
to videotape even their informed-consent discussions prior to
procedures, because an adversarial lawyer could exploit any
omission. If there were a video record of the procedure itself,
she told me, a plaintiff’s lawyer would request, and get, a
copy.  Malpractice laws vary by state, and while some allow for
video recording, it must be part of a “formal review process,”
according to Atlanta-based health-care lawyer Elizabeth Schoen.
To make videotaping routine in hospitals and clinics would
require legal rules to keep them out of court. That would also
mean keeping them out of the hands of patients, however,
defeating their best purpose.  Tort Reform  The Affordable Care Act could have prevented the problem,
had it included tort reform of the kind that President  Barack Obama   sponsored in 2005 , when he was a senator. Early sketches
of the health-care law would have mandated, for example,
mediation rather than litigation in cases where alleged medical
mistakes were immediately disclosed. Technically savvy  health
courts and safe-harbor  provisions for providers who follow best
practices could have made doctors comfortable with video
recording.  These measures were ultimately discarded out of concern
that they would put at risk the vital support of Democratic
lawmakers who are  closely aligned  with trial lawyers. As a
result, medical errors brought to trial will continue to be
interpreted by juries who will always find a videotape more
powerful than an explanation.  It isn’t too late to provide legal protection for medical
video recording. The Affordable Care Act’s success rests on
providers practicing in a smarter and leaner way, and on
patients accepting this new approach. Turning down the volume on
the legal jeopardy that providers face every day could make
innovations such as video medicine realistic. The president and
Democrats in Congress could please Republicans who have long
supported medical-tort reform and simultaneously shore up the
Affordable Care Act’s prospects by introducing a few common-sense protections for doctors who smile for the camera. It would
take some political courage to face down the trial-lawyer lobby,
but consider the payoff: cheaper, higher-quality medical care.  (Ford Vox, a doctor at the Shepherd Center for brain and
spinal-cord injury in Atlanta, writes about health-care policy.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ford Vox at  docvox@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  