-- Amgen Drugs May Boost Survival During a Nuclear Attack
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-05-01T20:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/amgen-drugs-may-boost-survival-during-a-nuclear-attack.html
Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ’s Neulasta and Neupogen and
a similar blood-boosting drug from  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  may help people survive after a nuclear attack,
U.S. regulators said.  Medications known as leukocyte growth factors, which also
include  Sanofi (SAN) ’s Leukine, may help decrease death rates from
radiation exposure, Food and Drug Administration staff said
today in a report. FDA staff reviewed a National Institutes of
Health study on monkeys exposed to radiation that were given
Neupogen. Agency advisers plan to meet May 3 to discuss whether
the animal study is sufficient to approve the use for humans.  This is the first time an FDA advisory committee will
consider a medical countermeasure for use in a radiological or
nuclear incident, the staff said. Neulasta, Amgen’s second best-selling drug, and Neupogen together generated about $5.4 billion
in sales last year for the Thousand Oaks, California-based
company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The drugs are
given by injections.  “The FDA-approval of a product for use in a
radiological/nuclear setting will facilitate access to this
product in the event of such an emergency,” FDA staff said in
the  report .  The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases
runs a program to develop radiation and nuclear countermeasures.  Of the 24 monkeys that took Neupogen in the NIH study, 79
percent survived after 60 days, compared with 41 percent of the
22 monkeys who didn’t take the drug, FDA staff said. NIH stopped
the trial after studying 46 animals because of the comparison.  The drugs are currently used by cancer patients to boost
infection-fighting white blood cells lowered by chemotherapy
treatments. Amgen’s treatments and the product from Petach
Tikva, Israel-based Teva are filgrastims, which the American
Cancer Society says is a man-made version of a protein in the
body that stimulates the bone marrow to make white blood cells.  Amgen shares rose less than 1 percent to $104.54 at 4 p.m.
 New York  time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  