-- Lampert Reaps Cheers at Sears Meeting Amid Sales Skid
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2013-05-02T14:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/lampert-reaps-cheers-at-sears-meeting-amid-sales-skid.html
This year, Eddie Lampert stood alone.  At the  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  annual meeting yesterday, he
faced shareholders for the first time as the company’s chief
executive officer, as well as its chairman, majority
shareholder, and engineer of the merger of Kmart Holdings Corp.
and Sears Roebuck & Co. eight years ago.  While the company has posted two years of losses and six of
declining sales, investors voiced little dissent and offered
ample praise for Lampert and his solo performance.  “I am so happy to see you as chief executive officer,” an
elderly female investor from  Texas  told Lampert at the meeting
at Sears’s headquarters in Hoffman Estates,  Illinois . “Sears
needs to be sizzling because it is hot.”  Lampert held court onstage for two hours in a room stocked
with bicycles, a washing machine and mannequins decked out in
Sears and Kmart brands. During his opening remarks, Lampert
detailed how the company has reduced online transaction and
shipping time and added a program that allows customers to
communicate online with store workers.  The department-store chain also will lean heavily on its
membership program this year, he told shareholders. A clothing
line by singer Nicki Minaj will be available to Shop Your Way
members first, and they can expect other special offers and
pricing, he said.  The three-year-old rewards program, which Sears says has
tens of millions of participants, is becoming increasingly
important as the company tries to revive sales, which have
fallen for 24 straight quarters. More than half of Sears’s  sales 
now come from Shop Your Way members and sales per member
increased more than 8 percent last year, compared with a 4.1
percent drop companywide.  Membership Company  “We are becoming a company focused less on products and
less on stores and much more on members,” Lampert said.  Since the beginning of last year, Sears has sold stores,
spun off its smaller-format locations and a portion of Sears
Canada, and formed a new unit to develop entertainment-linked
brands, including clothing lines by Adam Levine and Minaj.  Lampert took over in February after Lou D’Ambrosio stepped
down after less than two years for a family health matter. He is
now the retailer’s fifth chief executive since he combined Kmart
and Sears Roebuck eight years ago. D’Ambrosio, whose background
is in technology, emphasized online sales and data collection to
gauge customers’ buying habits.  Seeking Improvement  Lampert told the approximately 300 attendees at the meeting
that the company still needs to improve. Sears posted a $930
million net loss on $39.9 billion in sales in the year ended
Feb. 2. The loss was narrower than the $3.14 billion deficit a
year earlier.  “We know that the level of  profitability  is still well
below what it needs to be to justify the assets we’ve dedicated
to the business,” he said.  Lampert said the company would be more aggressive about
some of its plans if it had the resources. Sears’s operations
consumed $571 million in cash in the past two years.  “If we were making more money, we could go much faster,”
he said at a press conference following the shareholder meeting.
“We’ve had to make choices I’d prefer not to make.”  For example, the company has been criticized for spending
less on store upkeep than competitors. Sears also has lost
appliance sales to big-box competitors such as  Home Depot Inc. (HD) 
and  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW)  The  shares , which rose 2.4 percent to $51.26 at
10:36 a.m. in New York, dropped 10 percent in the 12 months
through yesterday, compared with a 13 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “Sears currently lacks a credible turnaround plan for
long-term viability,” David Kuntz and Ana Lai, analysts at
Standard & Poor’s in New York, wrote in a report this month.
“Sears needs a more drastic plan to improve its merchandising
and invest in its store base, while maintaining its position in
appliance and tools retailing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  