-- Landesbank Berlin Quits Euribor in Bank Exodus From Benchmarks
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-05-01T14:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/landesbank-berlin-quits-euribor-in-bank-exodus-from-benchmarks.html
Landesbank Berlin AG, a German
regional lender, became the sixth bank this year to stop
contributing to the panel setting Euribor, adding to an exodus
that includes UBS AG and Rabobank Groep.  The bank also stopped contributing to the Eonia and USD
Euribor benchmarks, Euribor-EBF, the Brussels-based industry
group that runs the rate, said in a statement on its website.  After three banks were fined more than $2.5 billion for
rigging the  London  interbank offered rate and Euribor, firms are
withdrawing from benchmarks amid growing concern that they may
face lawsuits, fines and criminal penalties if found to have
engaged in wrongdoing. Michel Barnier, the European Union’s
internal market and services commissioner, said in February he
was considering making lenders participate in benchmarks to
preserve their integrity as market benchmarks.  “The bank probably doesn’t want to be involved in
something that is getting such poor publicity, and they think
it’s best we step away,” said Christopher Wheeler, a banking
analyst at Mediobanca SpA in London. “I also suspect it’s
reducing considerably its activity in the large wholesale
interbank lending market.”  Euribor-EBF Director Cedric Quemener and Frank Weidner, a
Landesbank Berlin spokesman, didn’t respond to e-mails seeking
comment outside business hours.  Bayerische Landesbank, Rabobank and  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI)  left Euribor in January. UBS, Switzerland’s
biggest bank, and  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  left in March.  The euro interbank offered rate is derived from a daily
survey of lending quotes conducted for Euribor-EBF by  Thomson
Reuters  Corp. There are 36 contributors on the Euribor panel,
according to Euribor-EBF’s website.  Three-month Euribor, which tracks bank-loan rates over that
maturity, was little changed at 0.207 percent today, down from
0.708 percent a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  