-- Manufacturing in U.S. Probably Grew at Slower Pace in April
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-05-01T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/manufacturing-in-u-s-probably-grew-at-slower-pace-in-april.html
Manufacturing probably grew in April
at the  slowest  pace this year, indicating the industry will
contribute less to U.S. growth this quarter, economists said
before a report today.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index dropped
to 50.6 from the prior month’s 51.3, according to the  median 
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 84 economists. A reading of 50
is the dividing line between expansion and contraction. Other
reports may show companies hired about as many workers in April
as in the prior month and construction spending rose in March.  Manufacturing, which makes up about 12 percent of the
economy, is cooling as the need to rebuild inventories wanes and
across-the-board  federal budget  cuts take hold. Companies such
as  Tenneco Inc. (TEN)  project it may take until the second half of the
year for demand to pick up as American consumers grapple with
higher payroll taxes and  Europe ’s economy struggles to expand.  “It’s pretty sluggish right now,” said  Jim O’Sullivan ,
chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics Ltd. in
Valhalla,  New York , who was the best forecaster of ISM
manufacturing for the past two years, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. “It may well be that the second quarter is a
stall. Not necessarily down, but not up very much.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM group’s index is due at 10
a.m. New York time. Economists’ estimates in the Bloomberg
survey ranged from 49 to 53.  March Report  Manufacturing expanded less than forecast in March, with
the index dropping 2.9 points from 54.2 a month earlier. The
difference between the March outcome and the average estimate of
economists surveyed was 4.3 times larger than the poll’s
standard deviation, or the average divergence between what each
economist forecast and the mean. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
dropped 0.2 percent five minutes after the data were released.  Businesses are keeping headcounts in line with demand, a
report based on private payrolls may show at 8:15 a.m. A
projected increase of 150,000 workers in April would follow a
158,000 advance in March, according to the Bloomberg survey
median ahead of data from Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP
Research Institute.  Construction spending  in March climbed 0.6 percent after a
1.2 percent gain the prior month, economists surveyed by
Bloomberg predicted. Projections ranged from a drop of 0.3
percent to a rise of 1.5 percent. The Commerce Department will
release the report at 10 a.m. in Washington.  The economy’s inability to sustain a pickup a growth and
bigger employment gains explains why Federal Reserve policy
makers, who conclude their two-day meeting today, will probably
reiterate the need to continue record monetary stimulus. The
officials have said they’ll maintain that policy until the
outlook for the labor market improves “substantially.”  Auto Manufacturing  At the same time,  consumer spending  led by demand for
automobiles may help keep manufacturing from faltering.  Cars (SAARTOTL)  and
light trucks sold at an average 15.3 million annualized rate in
the first quarter, the most since the same period in 2008,
according to figures from Ward’s Automotive Group.  Tenneco, a maker of diesel-exhaust filters and mufflers, is
seeing a “mixed global industry environment,” according to
Chief Executive Officer Gregg Sherrill. The  Lake Forest ,
Illinois-based company expects to benefit later this year from
improving light-vehicle production in  North America  and overseas
markets including  China .  “With a continued weak global market and the significant
inventory destocking taking place, we anticipate production to
remain at low levels in the second quarter,” Sherrill said in
an earnings conference call on April 29. “However, as inventory
issues are worked through, we expect to see some volume
improvements in the second half of the year.”  Regional Data  Regional reports show factories pulled back in April. The
 MNI Chicago (CHPMINDX)  Report’s business barometer fell to 49, the weakest
since September 2009, from 52.4 in March, figures showed
yesterday. A reading less than 50 signals contraction.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s so-called Empire
State measure showed manufacturing in the region expanded in
April at the slowest pace in three months, and the Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s index showed factory activity
barely grew.  The 2.5 percent annualized pace of economic expansion in
the first three months of the year may give way to weaker growth
this quarter amid the lagged effect from a two percentage-point
increase in the payroll tax at the start of 2013 and $85 billion
in automatic budget cuts that began on March 1.  Growth will slow to a 1.5 percent pace from April through
June, then reaccelerate to an average 2.4 percent rate in the
last six months of the year, according to an April survey by
Bloomberg.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  