-- Apollo Said to Near $5 Billion Closing for Buyout Fund
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-05-01T15:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/apollo-said-to-near-5-billion-closing-for-buyout-fund.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , the
private-equity firm run by  Leon Black , is close to securing at
least $5 billion for its latest flagship fund, according to two
people with knowledge of the matter.  The firm plans what is known as a first close by the end of
May for Apollo Investment Fund VIII LP, which is seeking $12
billion, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
information is private. Apollo, based in  New York , gathered
$14.7 billion for its current fund in 2008.  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  is raising $10 billion for a global fund,
while  KKR & Co. (KKR)  is seeking $8 billion for a North American pool.
Buyout firms are stepping up sales of investments by funds
raised before the 2008 financial crisis to help persuade
investors to commit fresh cash.  Apollo is “selling everything that’s not nailed down in
our portfolio,” Black said yesterday at the Milken Institute
Global Conference in Beverly Hills, California. “If it is
nailed down, we’re refinancing it.”  Black, a former Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. executive who
co-founded Apollo in 1990, said the firm has sold about $13
billion of assets in the past 15 months. Prices for traditional
buyouts have risen so much that it’s a good time to sell, he
said.  Apollo’s new fund will invest in distressed assets,
divisions of companies and leveraged buyouts, according to a
marketing document obtained by  Bloomberg News . Apollo is giving
clients a bigger share of the fees it levies on companies,
directing 80 percent of such fees to the investors, also known
as limited partners, compared with 68 percent in the prior fund,
the document shows. Private-equity firms charge the companies
they own fees for services including consulting, investment
banking and advice.  Fund Returns  Melissa Mandel Kvitko, a spokeswoman for Apollo at
Rubenstein Associates, declined to comment.  Apollo’s previous flagship pool, Fund VII, was generating a
26 percent net internal rate of return as of  Dec. 31 , according
to firm’s annual report, after taking advantage of distressed
opportunities that arose from the financial crisis. The firm’s
$10.1 billion Fund VI, which invested during the buyout boom of
2006 to 2008, was producing a 9 percent net IRR as of year-end,
the report shows.  Black took Apollo public in 2011, raising $565 million four
years after  Stephen Schwarzman ’s  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the
world’s biggest buyout firm, had an initial public offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  