-- Apple Can’t Top Microsoft in $17 Billion Sale: Corporate Finance
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2013-05-01T17:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/apple-can-t-top-microsoft-in-17-billion-sale-corporate-finance.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  paid higher  interest rates 
on a record $17 billion bond sale than  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  did a
week ago as the iPhone maker’s slowing growth overshadowed
annual  cash flow  that’s more than twice the amount of the issue.  While Apple matched an unprecedented low coupon of 0.45
percent for corporate three-year debt yesterday, investors
demanded higher yields for the fixed-rate portions of five, 10-and 30-year securities relative to U.S. Treasuries than similar-maturity notes Microsoft issued on April 25. Apple, which gets
more than half of its sales from the iPhone, plans to use the
money to help finance $100 billion in dividends and buybacks
after its shares plunged 44 percent in seven months.  “Apple is probably seen as a marginally higher risk,”
said Alan Shepard, an analyst and money manager at Madison
Investment Advisors Inc., which oversees about $16 billion in
Madison,  Wisconsin , and owns the company’s debt as well as that
of Microsoft. “They sell a premium product, but revenues aren’t
diversified enough.”  As Apple transformed itself from a near-bankrupt personal-computer also-ran into the world’s largest technology company,
the Cupertino, California-based maker of iPad computer tablets
and iPod music players has posted annual  sales growth  that’s
been about 10 times that of the Windows 8 designer over the past
four years. For bondholders, Morningstar Inc. says competition
from lower-cost mobile devices still makes Apple riskier than
Microsoft, the world’s largest software company.  ‘Cheap Money’  Steve Dowling, an Apple spokesman, directed questions about
the offering to a term sheet and bond prospectus filed with the
 Securities and Exchange Commission .  The order book for Apple’s six-part offering, a gauge of
investor demand for the debt, reached $52 billion, said a person
familiar with the transaction who asked not to be identified
citing lack of authorization to publicly discuss the sale.  “In reality, it’s still pretty cheap money,” Lon Erickson, a  Santa Fe , New Mexico-based manager at Thornburg
Investment Management Inc., who oversees about $6 billion of
taxable fixed-income assets, said in a telephone interview.
“Would they have liked to save those extra 5 basis points
relative to where Microsoft just printed their 10-year? I’m sure
they would have but it’s not that big of a cost to them. All in
all, they’re probably pretty happy with it.”  Spread Comparison  Apple’s  first debt  sale since 1996 included $4 billion of 1
percent, five-year notes that pay 40 basis points, or 0.4
percentage point, more than similar-maturity Treasuries, $5.5
billion of 2.4 percent, 10-year securities with a relative yield
of 75 basis points and $3 billion of 3.85 percent, 30-year bonds
paying an extra 100 points, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Those spreads exceed the 32 basis-point gap paid on $450
million of 1 percent debt due 2018 that higher-rated Microsoft
sold on April 25, a relative yield of 70 for its $1 billion of
2.375 percent, 10-year bonds and a 90 basis-point spread on the
Redmond, Washington-based company’s $500 million of 3.75 percent
securities due in three decades.  “Apple’s competitive advantages fall short of those built
around other tech giants, such as Microsoft’s Windows and
enterprise software offerings,” Michael Hodel, an analyst at
Chicago-based Morningstar, wrote yesterday in a report. “We
aren’t yet convinced that Apple has created strong enough
switching costs to develop a wide moat, as it faces heavy
smartphone competition from significantly lower-cost devices.”  Samsung Competition  Concern that Apple’s pace of sales growth is slowing were
reinforced last week by a forecast for narrowing gross margins
and sales this quarter that may miss analysts’ predictions by as
much as $4.9 billion. Apple had its first profit decline in a
decade last quarter as competition in mobile devices from
Samsung Electronics Co. intensified.  Apple’s offering also included $3 billion of three- and
five-year floating-rate notes and $1.5 billion of 0.45 percent,
fixed-rate three-year debt with a 20 basis-point spread, which
tied a record-low coupon set by Texas Instruments Inc., Unilever
NV and Walt Disney Co.  The deal exploited investor demand for investment-grade
debt whose average yields are close to record lows.  While Apple’s deal exceeded AbbVie Inc.’s $14.7 billion
offering in November, the iPhone maker paid narrower relative
yields than each of the drugmaker’s similar portions, which
included $3.1 billion of 2.9 percent, 10-year bonds with a
spread of 130 basis points, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Iconic, Well-Run’  Apple’s bonds are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today. Its 30-year
securities rose 1.472 cent on the dollar to 100.89 cents at
12:51 p.m. to yield 3.8 percent, or 96.9 basis points more than
Treasuries, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The debt was
issued at 99.418 cents on the dollar and a relative yield of 100
basis points, Bloomberg data show.  That’s still a higher yield than Microsoft’s similar-maturity securities, which traded yesterday at 99.571 cents to
yield 3.774 percent.  “It’s an iconic, well-run company,” said Marc Fratepietro, co-head of coverage, investment-grade  capital
markets  at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , which managed the sale along with
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “They have incredible products and a
stellar balance sheet.”  Goldman Sachs  “That’s an extremely attractive combination for
investors,” he said. “You look at prior jumbo deals that have
come in the past and they all had much larger size premiums and
much bigger concessions to what people would perceive as fair
value.”  The offering pushed Deutsche Bank up two levels to make it
the fifth-largest underwriter of U.S. investment-grade debt this
year, according to Bloomberg data that excludes self-led deals.
Goldman Sachs also moved up two spots to become the fourth-largest underwriter.  Goldman Sachs was involved in both of Apple’s most recent
bond sales in 1994 and 1996. With Apple approaching bankruptcy
in June 1996, then-CFO  Fred Anderson  hired Goldman to lead a
$661 million convertible bond offering that provided the
liquidity for Apple’s comeback.  Deutsche Bank advised Apple on its takeover of Next
Computer Inc., which was completed in 1997 and led to Jobs’s
return to Apple, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Long Time’  Apple generated $45.4 billion of  free cash flow  in the 12
months ended March 30, 65 percent more than the amount produced
by Microsoft, Bloomberg data show.  “You look at them with the cash flow and the overall
ongoing strength of their market position today, I don’t think
there’s any question that their fundamental story is one of the
strongest out there,” Erickson said. “When you look a little
bit forward though, and you start to think about the 10-year or
the 30-year paper from a pure fundamental standpoint, that’s a
long time and it gives plenty of time for that whole market to
change.”  Half of Apple’s $156.5 billion of sales last year were
accounted for by the iPhone, and 20 percent came from the iPad,
Bloomberg  data  show. Macintosh computers totaled 15 percent, 11
percent of which was portable models.  The rest of the sales came from software and services,
including the iTunes online entertainment offering, iPods and
accessories, the data show.  Debt/Equity  Microsoft has three divisions that account for at least 25
percent of sales, none of which is more than a third.  With $17 billion of new bonds, Apple’s debt to equity ratio
is about 12.5 percent, still lower than the 18.5 percent at
Microsoft, which has $16.9 billion of bonds outstanding and the
highest Aaa  credit rating  from Moody’s Investors Service and an
equivalent AAA at  Standard & Poor’s .  Moody’s and S&P last week ranked Apple a level lower at Aa1
and AA+. That rating tier is “inconsistent” with Apple’s
credit risk, according to  Fitch Ratings , which said this week
that the company’s “significant liquidity cushion” was offset
by the threat of volatile consumer preferences, significant
competition and rapid technology changes.  While Fitch hasn’t released a public grade for Apple, it
said such a ranking would be likely to fall “at the highest
end” of the single-A tier, at least three levels below the AA+
grade it gives to Microsoft.  $145 Billion  Yesterday’s Apple offering, which topped the previous
record of $16.5 billion set by  Roche Holding AG  in February
2009, may be only the first portion of Apple borrowings as the
company uses bonds to help finance shareholder rewards.  While Apple has $145 billion of  cash , borrowing the money
may help the company avoid repatriation taxes on its $102.3
billion of funds held overseas as Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  returns an additional $55 billion to shareholders through
2015 to compensate for a  stock  that’s been hammered by signs of
slowing growth.  Using new debt to finance that increase may require annual
issuance of $15 billion to $20 billion, Ping Zhao, an analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in  New York , wrote in a report April 23.  “Microsoft has a much larger installed base with a much
better avenue for recurring revenue,” Greg Tornga, the Seattle-based head of fixed income at Edge Asset Management, said in a
telephone interview. While the two companies are virtually equal
from a bondholder perspective, Apple “just has, by its nature,
more cash flow volatility,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  