-- Markey Wins Massachusetts U.S. Senate Democratic Primary
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-05-01T02:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/markey-wins-massachusetts-u-s-senate-democratic-primary.html
U.S. Representative Ed Markey won
the Democratic nomination for a  Massachusetts  U.S. Senate seat
in a contest overshadowed by recent bombings in Boston.  Markey, 66, led House colleague Stephen Lynch in the
primary race, 57 percent to 43 percent, with 97 percent of
precincts reporting in today’s primary, according to the
Associated Press tally.  Markey will face Republican businessman Gabriel Gomez, 47,
who won his party’s three-person primary. With 97 percent of the
precincts reporting in that race, the AP count showed Gomez with
51 percent of the vote to 36 percent for former federal
prosecutor Michael Sullivan, 58, and 13 percent for state
Representative Daniel Winslow, 54.  The special election for the Senate seat is scheduled for
June 25.  With registered Democrats outnumbering Republicans by 3-to-
1 in Massachusetts, Markey is the favorite heading into the
vote. All statewide-elected officials are Democrats -- including
U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren, who won her seat last November --
as are the nine members of the House delegation.  Still, more than half of those on the Massachusetts voting
rolls are unaffiliated. These voters could participate in either
party’s primary. Turnout in the Democratic race exceeded
520,000, while more than 180,000 votes were cast in the
Republican contest.  Democrats will be seeking in the special election to
maintain their 55-45 voting advantage over Republicans in the
Senate.  Markey’s Focus  Markey, the dean of the Massachusetts congressional
delegation after 36 years in office, stressed to primary voters
his record of support for gay marriage, votes for women’s
reproductive rights and battles with the National Rifle
Association, the country’s largest gun lobby.  The message from his camp: A vote for Markey was a vote for
President  Barack Obama ’s agenda. The congressman also took on
the establishment mantle, picking up early support from former
senator and now Secretary of State John Kerry, whose seat he is
seeking to fill, and Victoria Kennedy, the wife of the late U.S.
Senator Ted Kennedy, a Massachusetts Democrat.  Veterans of the Obama and Warren campaigns filled the ranks
of Markey’s paid staff and volunteer ranks. At a recent Markey
“Get Out the Vote” rally in Boston attended by hundreds,
almost every person in the room stood up when Markey’s field
director, Carl Nilsson, asked if they’d previously worked on one
of those two campaigns.  Markey’s Challenge  Markey, from the Boston suburb of Malden, will now focus on
rallying to his side “lunch pail” Democrats -- middle-income
families and union households  -- who dominated Lynch’s base and
may be tempted to vote for a Republican in the general election,
said David Paleologos, the director of the Suffolk University
Political Research Center in  Boston .  “Markey needs Steve Lynch to be his biggest ally, and even
then he still risks losing votes,” Paleologos said.  Lynch, 58, in his campaign played up his independent streak
and roots in South Boston’s public-housing projects. The 11-year
congressman introduced himself to other parts of the state with
television commercials in which a construction worker, a student
taking night-time college courses and welder look into the
camera and say: “I am Stephen Lynch.”  The commercials struck a chord. While on a small business
tour of Lawrence, the state’s poorest city, Christian Gabin, 26,
approached Lynch as if he were a Hollywood celebrity and recited
the ads.  “He grew up in the public housing just like I did,” Gabin
said, explaining his enthusiasm. “It is like one of our own is
out there.”  Effect of Bombing  In the primary campaign’s final stretch, a pair of bombs
exploded on April 15 near the finish line of the Boston
Marathon, killing three and injuring more than 260 people.  All of the campaigns pulled television commercials and
canceled fundraisers and door knocking. A debate between Markey
and Lynch was postponed.  “It froze everything in place,” said Peter Ubertaccio,
the chairman of the political science department at Stonehill
College in Easton, Massachusetts.  “With Lynch unable to
campaign, Markey maintained his front-runner status.”  When the Democratic candidates went back out on the trail
on April 22, Lynch showed a feisty side that had been absent for
much of the race -- accusing Markey of failing to support a
joint terrorism task force instrumental in tracking the two
suspects in the bombings. One, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, is in custody,
while his brother, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, died in a shootout with
law officers in Watertown, Massachusetts.  Lynch’s Ailments  Markey’s camp dismissed the charge, and the final attacks
weren’t enough to propel Lynch, who trailed in public-opinion
polls, to an upset victory. He was forced to miss most of his
scheduled campaign appearances yesterday and today because of a
stomach illness and the loss of his voice, said Conor Yunits, a
Lynch spokesman.  Even with the state’s Democratic tilt, Massachusetts voters
sent shock waves through the national political landscape in
January 2010 when voters picked Republican Scott Brown in a
special election to fill the seat long held by Kennedy. Brown
defeated Democrat Martha Coakley.  Brown, 53, lost his bid for a full six-year term in last
year’s general election to Warren, 63.  Kerry, who first won his Senate seat in 1984 and was the
unsuccessful Democratic presidential nominee in 2004, won
confirmation in late January from fellow senators to serve as
secretary of state. Democrat William “Mo” Cowan, one-time
chief of staff to Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick, was
appointed by his former boss to replace Kerry in the Senate on
an interim basis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  