-- Marriott Profit Climbs on Gain in U.S. Business Travel
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-05-01T21:12:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/marriott-profit-climbs-on-gain-in-u-s-business-travel.html
Marriott International Inc. (MAR) , the
largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain, said first-quarter
earnings rose 31 percent as demand increased from business
travelers in such U.S. cities as  New York .  Net income climbed to $136 million, or 43 cents a share,
from $104 million, or 30 cents, a year earlier, the Bethesda,
Maryland-based company said today in a statement. The average
 estimate  of 14 analysts was 41 cents a share, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Marriott, whose brands include Ritz-Carlton, benefited from
demand in the U.S., buoyed by an improving economy and business-
travel spending, according to  Patrick Scholes , an analyst at
SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Inc. in New York.  “Domestically, the individual business traveler is doing
well, particularly in cities like New York,” Scholes said in an
interview before the results were announced. The greater New
York area contributes about 10 percent of Marriott’s earnings,
he said.  Revenue per available room, an industry measure of
occupancies and rates, climbed 5.8 percent at company-operated
hotels in North America. Worldwide the measure increased 4.6
percent in the first quarter, excluding currency fluctuations.  “Our first quarter fee revenue exceeded our
expectations,” President and Chief Executive Officer  Arne Sorenson  said in the statement. North American revpar rose,
“reflecting strong transient demand and favorable pricing” and
“particular strength among full-service hotels in the U.S.”  Revpar Forecast  For the second quarter, the company expects revpar to
increase 5 percent to 7 percent in  North America , 2 percent to 4
percent outside North America and 4 percent to 6 percent
worldwide.  Marriott also forecast full-year earnings per share of
$1.93 to $2.08, a 12 percent to 21 percent increase from 2012.
That compares with a February estimate of $1.90 to $2.05 a
share.  Total revenue climbed to $3.14 billion in the first quarter
from $2.55 billion a year earlier.  Marriott released its results after the close of regular
U.S. trading. The shares fell 1.4 percent to $42.48 today in New
York. They have gained 7.1 percent in the past year.  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT) , owner of the
luxury St. Regis and W brands, yesterday said first-quarter
earnings increased 66 percent because of a tax benefit and
growth in North America.  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H) , the chain
controlled by the Pritzker family, today reported first-quarter
profit fell 20 percent as renovations cut into revenue and
demand declined for rooms booked in groups.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  