-- MasterCard Profit Beats Estimates as Customer Spending Increases
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-05-01T12:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/mastercard-profit-beats-estimates-as-customer-spending-increases.html
MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the second-biggest
U.S. payments network, posted a first-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as customer spending climbed.  Net income  increased 12 percent to $766 million, or $6.23 a
share, from $682 million, or $5.36, a year earlier, the
Purchase, New York-based company said today in a statement. The
 average estimate  of 33 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for
$6.17 a share.  MasterCard, led by Chief Executive Officer  Ajay Banga ,
doubled its dividend and authorized a new share-repurchase
program during the quarter as a global consumer shift from cash
and checks to electronic payments continues unabated. Spending
on the network grew faster last year than at larger competitor
 Visa Inc. (V) , which lost market share as news U.S. limits on debit-
card transaction fees and processing took effect.  “We delivered solid performance that met our expectations
despite the mixed global economic environment,” Banga, 53, said
in the statement. “Since the start of the year, we have had
steady momentum in new business, as well as product
innovations.”  MasterCard has climbed 13 percent this year,  outpacing  the
5.1 percent gain for the 70-company Standard & Poor’s 500
Information Technology Index. Shares advanced 2.6 percent
yesterday to close at an all-time high of $552.93.  Visa, whose shares have advanced 11 percent in 2013, is
scheduled to report fiscal second-quarter results later today.
The  Foster City , California-based company may say net income
fell 7 percent to $1.2 billion, according to the  average
estimate  of 21 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  American Express Co. (AXP) , the third-biggest U.S. network, and
No. 4  Discover Financial Services (DFS) , both said last month that
first-quarter profits rose as customer card spending increased.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  