-- MasterCard Declines as Revenue Misses Estimates: New York Mover
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-05-01T15:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/mastercard-falls-after-revenue-misses-estimates-new-york-mover.html
MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the second-biggest
U.S. payments network, fell the most since August after first-
quarter revenue missed analysts’ estimates.  MasterCard declined as much as 3.1 percent in New York
trading and slid $15.12, or 2.7 percent, to $537.81 at 11 a.m.
Revenue increased 8.4 percent to $1.91 billion from a year
earlier, the Purchase, New York-based firm said today in a
statement. That compares with the $1.93 billion estimate of 29
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Revenues were short of our below-consensus estimate, as
volume and processed transaction growth slowed more than
expected,” Tien-Tsin Huang, an analyst with JPMorgan Chase &
Co., said in a note to clients today. “We’d like to see
consensus estimates move lower.”  MasterCard Chief Executive Officer  Ajay Banga  is targeting
markets in  Latin America , Asia and Africa to counter sluggish
consumer spending in the U.S. and Europe. Purchases by U.S.
consumers slowed in March after the strongest gain in five
months, showing the biggest part of the country’s economy lost
momentum as the first quarter drew to a close.  First-quarter  profit  increased 12 percent to $766 million,
or $6.23 a share, from $682 million, or $5.36, a year earlier,
the firm said, topping the $6.17  average estimate  of 33 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Our performance was completely in line with our
expectations,” Chief Financial Officer Martina Hund-Mejean said
in a phone interview. “We have not changed our outlook at
all.”  Revenue Climbs  MasterCard climbed 13 percent this year through yesterday,
 outpacing  the 5.1 percent  gain  for the 70-company Standard &
Poor’s 500 Information Technology Index.  Worldwide spending on MasterCard- and Maestro-branded cards
rose 10 percent to $690 billion in the quarter, adjusted for
currency fluctuations, the company said. Spending by consumers
outside their home countries surged 16 percent. Processed
transactions advanced 12 percent to 8.7 billion.  While U.S.  consumer spending  had a “rebound” in January
compared with the prior year, February had “a very weak
performance,” Hund-Mejean said. Consumers spent less after
being hit with higher payroll taxes that took effect in January,
she said.  MasterCard’s operating expenses increased 5.4 percent to
$799 million, mainly because of higher personnel expenses, the
firm said. The firm is likely to boost total 2013 costs by just
below 8 percent as it adds staff, Hund-Mejean said.  Visa Inc. (V) , the world’s biggest payments network, is
scheduled to report fiscal second-quarter results later today.
The  Foster City , California-based company may say net income
fell 7 percent to $1.2 billion, according to the  average
estimate  of 21 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  American Express Co. (AXP) , the third-biggest U.S. network, and
No. 4  Discover Financial Services (DFS) , both said last month that
first-quarter profits rose as customer card spending increased.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  