-- Astra Sees Tough Year as Indonesia Growth Dims: Southeast Asia
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-05-01T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/astra-sees-tough-year-as-indonesia-growth-dims-southeast-asia.html
For  PT Astra International (ASII) ,
Indonesia’s largest company by market value, 2013 may be a long
year.  The company expects competition in its main automotive
business to intensify, labor costs to rise and prices of its
coal and palm oil to fall, President Director Prijono Sugiarto
said in an interview yesterday.  “Business may slow down in 2013,” Sugiarto said in his
office in Jakarta. “There’s more competition on the four-
wheeler side and for Astra itself, as I said early on, the
commodity prices are really pressuring the businesses of Astra,
especially on the crude palm oil and coal side.”  Sugiarto’s concerns illustrate the dimming prospects for
Indonesian companies, which are also bracing for a pickup in
inflation that may undermine consumer spending in  Southeast
Asia ’s largest economy. Astra’s profit is headed for its slowest
growth in seven years, according to the average analyst estimate
compiled by Bloomberg.  Jakarta-based Astra expects domestic auto sales to expand 5
percent or less from last year, Sugiarto 52, said. The company
reported a 7 percent slide in first-quarter net income last
month. While the introduction of low-cost green cars may support
sales, Astra’s commodity based units must cope with lower palm
oil and coal prices, said.  In January, BNP Paribas SA was forecasting auto sales in
Indonesia would rise by 18 percent this year, second only to
 Russia ’s growth among major car markets.  Economic Growth  The economy expanded 6.11 percent in the fourth quarter,
the slowest pace in more than two years.  Indonesia ’s central
bank last month lowered its economic growth forecast for 2013.  Astra’s profit will probably rise 6.5 percent to 20.7
trillion rupiah ($2.1 billion) this year, the slowest growth
since 2006, according to the mean estimate of 23 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  Shares of Astra, which sells Toyota Motor Corp. automobiles
and owns oil palm plantations, coal mines and finance companies,
have fallen 3.3 percent this year compared with a 17 percent
gain in the  Jakarta Composite index .
  While consumer price gains eased in April after surging to a
22-month high in March, inflationary pressures are building. The
rupiah has weakened against all major Asian currencies except
the yen, and President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said April 30
the government must raise the price of subsidized fuel. An
across-the-board increase of 1,000 rupiah ($0.10) a liter may
add about 1.6 percentage points to inflation, Bank Indonesia
Deputy Governor Perry Warjiyo said April 26.  Consumer Spending  “If the situation remains the same and inflation cannot be
managed, it will probably affect  consumer spending ,” Sugiarto
said. Still, “to reduce the subsidy, even though it may affect
the car market, we believe that with the present strength of the
middle class and the affluent consumers of Indonesia, we believe
it should be temporary as long as we do it gradually.”  The rupiah may trade at about 9,700 to 9,800 against the
dollar this year, which is within a comfortable range, Sugiarto
said. Astra’s hedging policy covers six months of imports and so
far there’s no need to change the strategy, he said.  Share Price  Astra reported first-quarter  net income  of 4.3 trillion
rupiah ($442.3 million), a decline of 7 percent from a year ago.
Its share price has fallen 5.8 percent since the earning
announcement April 24, as analysts from PT Credit Suisse
Securities and PT Trimegah Securities lowered their target price
for the company by at least 4.4 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Astra owns 59.5 percent of  PT United Tractors (UNTR) , the nation’s
biggest heavy equipment seller, whose businesses include mining
contracting and coal mining. Astra also owns 79.7 percent of the
country’s largest publicly listed palm oil company,  PT Astra
Agro Lestari. (AALI)  United Tractors reported a 27 percent drop in
first-quarter net income while Astra Agro’s profit slid 5.7
percent from a year earlier.  Coal at the Australian port of Newcastle,  Asia ’s benchmark
price, dropped by $2.50 a ton in the seven days ended April 19,
the fifth decline in six weeks and the biggest in more than a
month, data from IHS McCloskey show. Prices averaged $94.29 last
year after slipping to a three-year low of $78.05 on Oct. 19.
Palm oil futures in  Kuala Lumpur  fell 3 percent this year, after
plunging 27 percent last year.  Domestic automobile sales in March declined to 95,936 units
from 103,268 units in February, Astra said April 12, citing data
from the nation’s automotive industries association.  ‘Bright Future’  Introduction of low cost green cars may provide an
“upswing” to auto sales because of their  fuel efficiency  and
affordable prices, which range from $8,000 to $12,000, Sugiarto
said. Astra may sell about 7,000 to 10,000 low cost green cars
each month and it has a backlog order of 30,000 units, he said.  Sales of these cars are pending the issuance of  government
regulation  on low cost green cars, which Sugiarto said may be
issued within a few weeks.  “I never have any doubt that this country will have a
bright future” Sugiarto said. “For Astra group being one of
the biggest players in this country, we believe we will also
benefit from the economic growth in this country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  