-- ASX Sales Rise as Analyst Says Competitive Concern Reducing
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-05-01T02:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/asx-sales-rise-as-analyst-says-competitive-concern-reducing.html
ASX Ltd. (ASX)  shares headed for the highest
closing level in two years after the operator of  Australia ’s
main stock exchange reported a 9.5 percent increase in third-
quarter sales and analysts said concern from competition is
reducing.  Operating revenue in the third quarter climbed 9.5 percent
to A$152.3 million ($158 million) from a year earlier, the
Sydney-based company said in a  statement . Sales in the nine
months through the end of March increased 0.6 percent to A$457.1
million and underlying profit dropped 0.3 percent to A$260.7
million, the company said. The shares rose 0.7 percent to
A$37.88 at 11:57 a.m. in Sydney, poised for the highest close
since February 2011.  ASX Chief Executive Officer Elmer Funke Kupper successfully
fought to keep the exchange’s monopoly in the clearing and
settlement of equity trades, is expanding its over-the-counter
clearing service for  interest-rate swaps  and has cut fees for
stock-trade reporting and market data to fend off competition
from Chi-X Australia Pty and dark-pool operators. Exchanges from
the U.S. to  Europe  and  Hong Kong  are relying more on derivatives
and other services as stock-trading profit wanes.  “The market has now formed the view that we have held for
a long time, that regulatory and competitive risks were
overplayed,” George Gabriel, a Melbourne-based analyst at Evans
& Partners Pty Ltd., said by telephone. “It’s a positive that
third-quarter momentum has been strong.” Gabriel has a
“positive” recommendation on ASX shares, meaning he sees the
shares beating returns on the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index in the
next 24 months.  ASX maintained its full-year 2013 earnings forecast.
Investors will now be looking to ASX’s April activity report,
scheduled to be released May 3.  Clearers act as central counterparties in derivatives
contracts to dilute the risk of default. Dark pools are private
trading venues that don’t display prices until after trades take
place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  