-- Aussie Dollar Holds Gain Versus Greenback on Fed Stimulus Bets
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-05-01T07:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/aussie-dollar-holds-gain-versus-greenback-on-fed-stimulus-bets.html
Australia ’s dollar held a two-day gain
versus the U.S. currency on bets the  Federal Reserve  will affirm
its commitment to so-called quantitative easing at the end of a
policy meeting today.  New Zealand’s kiwi dollar maintained its biggest monthly
advance against the greenback since September ahead of U.S. data
forecast to show manufacturing activity cooled and private
employers added the fewest jobs since October. Factory
production expanded in  China , the biggest trading partner of
both South Pacific nations.  “Not everything is all bright and rosy” in the U.S., Janu Chan, a Sydney-based economist at St. George Bank Ltd., said on
a conference call with clients. “QE from the Fed and elsewhere
can only mean further upside for the Australian dollar.”  The so-called Aussie slid 0.2 percent to $1.0353 as of 5:01
p.m. in Sydney, following a 0.9 percent gain over the previous
two days. The  New Zealand  dollar added 0.1 percent to 85.72 U.S.
cents, after rising 2.3 percent in April.  Two-year Australian bond yields touched 2.56 percent, the
lowest since Nov. 1. Ten-year rates were little changed at 3.1
percent.  Prospects the Fed will taper its $85 billion of monthly
bond purchases have diminished amid a slowing economic recovery.
Minutes from the March meeting show several Fed officials
discussed slowing the pace of stimulus.  Private employment rose by 150,000 in April after gaining
158,000 the previous month, data from the Roseland, New Jersey-
based ADP Research Institute will probably show today, according
to the median estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  U.S. Manufacturing  The Institute for Supply Management manufacturing  index ,
sank to 50.6 in April from March’s 51.3, a second consecutive
decrease, according to a separate Bloomberg poll ahead of
today’s release. Readings above 50 signal expansion.  “No one should be expecting either a change in the $85
billion monthly QE pace” or “a hint that the case for tapering
QE has grown,”  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist in
Sydney at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , wrote in a research note today.  Benchmark interest rates of 3 percent in Australia and 2.5
percent in New Zealand contrast with close to zero in the U.S.
and in  Japan , where central bank Governor Haruhiko Kuroda has
doubled monthly bond purchases in pursuit of 2 percent inflation
within two years.  The kiwi has climbed 7.4 percent over the past 12 months,
the best performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, while the Aussie has
gained 1.8 percent. The dollar has risen 1.6 percent, and the
yen has tumbled 18 percent, the biggest loser on the indexes.  Aussie Gains  The resilience of Australia’s currency is a function of the
strength of its economy, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said at a business
lunch in  Melbourne  today. Swiss-style intervention to weaken it
would be “folly,” he said. The  Swiss National Bank  used 188
billion francs ($202 billion) of reserves last year to cap its
currency at 1.20 per euro.  The Australian and New Zealand dollars were supported
versus the greenback after factories expanded output for a
seventh straight month in China. The  manufacturing  purchasing
managers’ index eased to 50.6 in April from 50.9 the month
before, according to the Beijing-based National Bureau of
Statistics and Federation of Logistics and Purchasing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  