-- Bank of Canada Governor Carney's Lecture in Edmonton (Text)
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-05-01T21:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/bank-of-canada-governor-carney-s-lecture-in-edmonton-text-.html
Following is the text of a lecture
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  is delivering today in
Edmonton. Footnotes and charts have been removed.  Monetary Policy After the Fall  Introduction  It is an honour to deliver the Eric J. Hanson Memorial
Lecture.  Raised on an Alberta farm, Eric Hanson was instrumental in
the development of the University of Alberta’s Department of
Political Economy, which he led from 1957 to 1964. Professor
Hanson expected that good education and intelligent planning
would be ever more significant in the future, a future he viewed
with optimism.  The Hanson Lecture figures importantly in Bank of Canada
history. The Lecture delivered in 1988 by Governor John Crow was
later dubbed the “Edmonton Manifesto.” In his talk, Governor
Crow enunciated a clear commitment to price stability as the
ultimate goal of monetary policy. In doing so, he set the stage
for the introduction of inflation targeting, and the subsequent
dramatic fall in both the level and volatility of inflation.  The preamble to the  Bank of Canada  Act has remained
constant since it was first enacted in 1934. It mandates the
Bank to:  … regulate credit and currency in the best interests of the  economic life of the nation, to control and protect the  external value of the national monetary unit and to  mitigate by its influence fluctuations in the general level  of production, trade, prices and employment, so far as may  be possible within the scope of monetary action, and  generally to promote the economic and financial welfare of  Canada.  John Crow’s core insight was that adopting the single
objective of price stability would be the best way that the Bank
could fulfill these obligations to Canadians.  Twenty years later, Governor  David Dodge  returned to this
stage. His remarks followed almost two decades of the successful
conduct of inflation targeting in Canada. Inflation had averaged
exactly 2 per cent and real GDP growth 3 per cent since 1995.
Inflation targeting had been formally adopted by 27 countries
and informally by more. Certainly, in early 2008, despite
tremors in international financial markets, there was reason to
believe that, at least with respect to monetary policy
frameworks, this might be as good as it gets.  Still, in reconfirming the Bank’s commitment to low, stable
and predictable inflation, Dodge appropriately asked--consistent
with the relentless quest to improve public policy that has
characterised his long career -- whether we were witnessing
“the end of  monetary policy  history.” Had we in fact found the
ideal framework?  In response to Governor Dodge’s challenge, the Bank began
investigating two major research topics: What are the costs and
benefits of an inflation target lower than 2 per cent? And what
are the costs and benefits of a shift to price-level targeting?
Implicitly the Bank was wondering whether the introduction of
price-level targeting could herald an era of true price
stability (i.e., zero average inflation), as originally
envisaged in the 1991 inflation-control agreement.  Throughout the pre-crisis inflation-targeting period, the
most compelling arguments against a further reduction of the
inflation target were the challenges associated with the zero
lower bound on interest rates. As subsequent Bank of Canada
research would suggest, however, the adoption of a well-
understood and credible price-level target could partially
circumvent the zero lower bound, giving policy-makers more scope
to deal with negative shocks in a low-inflation environment.
Furthermore, a price-level target could also reduce longer-term
price-level uncertainty and therefore allow households and
businesses to make economic decisions with greater certainty.
The simplicity of an unchanging price-level target would also
likely mitigate the concern that a price-level targeting regime
would not be understood well enough for expectations to behave
as needed to make it work. In theory, at least, a radical move
to price-level targeting looked intriguing.  As we all know, events intervened. Within a few months, the
global financial crisis erupted in its full fury. In its wake,
the zero lower bound became a reality rather than a theoretical
curiosity and more fundamental questions are being asked about
monetary policy, its scope, and the roles and responsibilities
of central banks.  For some, the debate has shifted from whether inflation
targeting could be refined to whether it could be salvaged.  The crisis put into sharp relief the role of monetary
policy in the pursuit of financial stability. Indeed, the crisis
was a painful reminder that we value nothing so much as when we
lose it. Even though Canada’s financial system proved to be one
of the most resilient in the world, the Bank recognised the
importance of re-examining the relationship between monetary
policy and financial stability, and we added this to our
research agenda.  The issues facing monetary policy-makers around the world
are broader still. Globally, central banks are now being
simultaneously accused of being ineffective and too powerful.
The goals of monetary policy are being called into question: Is
price stability enough? It is also being recognised that how
monetary policy interacts with other macro policies, including
fiscal and macroprudential policies, can affect its independence
and potentially its effectiveness.  At the same time, the instruments employed by central banks
have been extended to include a wide range of unconventional
measures. There have been important advances in communications.
A spate of liquidity measures targeted at the financial sector
has blurred the line between policies aimed at the maintenance
of price stability and those to support financial stability.
Although it has not been the case in Canada where policy has
remained conventional; globally, central banks are being asked
to do more, in more ways, than ever before. All of these
developments put a premium on clearly articulated monetary
policy frameworks.  In my remarks, I will review what recent experience means
for monetary policy frameworks, the instruments and tactics
central banks use to achieve their objectives, and how monetary
policy interacts with other macro policies. I will organise my
thoughts around key lessons learned from the crisis. I must warn
you up front, however, these lessons have generated thus far
more questions than answers, a trend I will largely extend
today.  Allow me to start with a description of monetary policy,
pre-2008, or pre-crisis.  Monetary Policy Pre-Crisis: Inflation Targeting as the Dominant
Framework  Some view history as merely a series of events driven by a
purposeless nature toward no particular end. The German
philosopher Hegel and others challenged this view. Hegel viewed
history as progress--oscillating toward a final, rational form
of society, guided by the invisible hand of reason. It is in
this sense that Francis Fukuyama asked in 1989 whether we were
witnessing “The End of History,” with the collapse of the
Soviet Union and the end of the  Cold War  apparently in his view
culminating in the triumph of Western liberal democracy as the
best way of organising society. Fukuyama of course acknowledged
that events would always happen and conflicts arise, but he
argued these would not call into question the already-revealed
ideal state.  It was in a similar sense that Governor Dodge asked five
years ago whether we had reached the end of monetary policy
history. The widespread - if not universal - view was that
inflation targeting had been revealed to be the best possible
monetary policy framework.  Such optimism appeared well-founded. The adoption of
inflation targeting in many countries generally coincided with a
long period of macroeconomic tranquility. The Taylor frontier
appeared to shift toward the axis: a lower level of inflation
volatility could now be achieved for any given level of output
volatility. While causality remained an area of debate, it
seemed clear that inflation targeting was at least consistent
with economic stability. This distinguished inflation targeting
from its antecedents and propelled the emerging consensus
regarding its superiority.  The putative end of monetary policy history did not mean an
end to economic shocks any more than Fukuyama’s thesis suggested
an end to events. Nor did it mean an end to efforts to further
refine the practice of inflation targeting to minimise the
incidence and consequences of those shocks. But it did mean that
in order “to promote the general economic and financial
welfare” of a society, central banks should focus relentlessly
on attaining price stability.  Some have suggested that recent events suggest we should
re-evaluate this conclusion. To do so, we should first review
the intellectual foundations and practical application of
inflation targeting.  The theoretical underpinnings of inflation targeting are
rooted in the new Keynesian synthesis. This intellectual
framework breaks with its forebears by embodying a central role
for expectations and abandoning the assumption of a long-run
trade-off between inflation and output. Monetary policy has real
effects in new Keynesian models because some nominal prices and
wages are assumed to adjust sluggishly. This nominal stickiness
implies that inflation expectations also adjust gradually,
allowing changes in the central bank’s nominal policy rate to
affect real interest rates and thereby encouraging households
and firms to shift expenditures over time. Moreover, the
forward-looking nature of behaviour in these models means that
decisions depend on both current and expected future interest
rates. Finally, since not all prices and wages are adjusted
simultaneously, variable inflation leads to inefficient
dispersion of relative prices. This further motivates inflation
stabilisation as a key objective of monetary policy.  The practical application of these intellectual foundations
was an inflation-targeting framework with the following main
elements:  - A clear objective, typically defined as a level or,  occasionally, a range for inflation. In many inflation-  targeting countries, including Canada, the target is 2 per  cent inflation, as measured by the  consumer price index .  Central banks generally aim to achieve this objective over a  medium-term horizon: normally six to eight quarters. While  inflation-targeting central banks had some scope for varying  this horizon, most perceived this flexibility to be quite  circumscribed. Other objectives--such as employment or output-  -were subject to a lexicographical ordering or avoided  altogether. It was a clearly held belief that the best  contribution of monetary policy to employment was to achieve  the inflation target (there was no long-run trade-off between  inflation and employment). Variables such as the exchange  rate, money, credit and asset prices influenced monetary  policy only to the extent that they had implications for  inflation and output.  - An independent central bank to pursue that objective.  Following the high-inflation periods of the 1970s and 1980s,  it became widely understood that the best practice was for the  executive or legislative branch of the government to decide  the objective of monetary policy and then delegate operational  authority for its achievement to the central bank. The central  bank operates with “constrained discretion”: it determines  how and over what time frame it will achieve the inflation  target. The central bank’s operational independence insulates  it from the short-run pressures of the political system. In  particular, it avoids a fundamental time-inconsistency problem  in which temptations to pursue short-term objectives undermine  medium-term economic performance.  - One instrument: a very short-term  interest rate  (the  overnight rate in Canada). The expected path of this policy  rate influences longer-term market rates, the interest rates  set by financial institutions, as well as the exchange rate  and other asset prices. These, in turn, affect aggregate  demand and inflation. With inflation expectations well  anchored, the basic task is to keep the level of aggregate  demand roughly in balance with the level of potential output.  Pre-crisis inflation targeting implemented in this manner  satisfied the Tinbergen principle: the one available policy  instrument was assigned to the achievement of a single  objective. By limiting the number of objectives to the number  of instruments, pre-crisis inflation targeting simplified the  task of the central bank.  - Transparent communications. Research and experience  demonstrate that clear and open communications are critical to  both the effectiveness and the accountability of monetary  policy. In particular, successful monetary policy requires  transparency around two aspects of the policy approach--what  central banks are trying to achieve and how they go about  achieving it. The clarity of the inflation target allows  households and firms to make longer-term plans with greater  confidence, aligning their savings, investment and spending  decisions with a common inflation-control objective, with  these actions collectively serving to make the inflation  target self-reinforcing. Transparent communications that  illuminate how the central bank responds to the forces at work  on the economy help markets and the public form and evolve  their expectations efficiently, which further aids the  achievement of the inflation objective.  One consequence of this well-defined inflation-targeting
framework was a relatively narrow view of the scope for monetary
policy to address potential financial vulnerabilities. Pre-
crisis thinking focused on asset prices as the main indicator of
emerging financial imbalances, and most believed that monetary
policy should take into account asset-price movements only to
the extent that they had implications for inflation and output
over the usual medium-term policy horizon. The general consensus
among central bankers was that “cleaning,” or mopping up after
a burst bubble, was the best contribution monetary policy could
make in this regard.  The preference for cleaning was based on three key
premises: (i) bubbles are difficult to detect; (ii) monetary
policy may be an ineffective, and therefore costly, way of
pricking bubbles; and (iii) cleaning up after a bubble bursts is
not too costly. Reinforcing this clean principle were the
implicit assumptions that markets were generally efficient and
that core markets cleared in all states of the world.  This intellectual consensus had consequences for how
central banks were organised, how they thought about the
macroeconomy, and how well they were prepared for what was to
come.  Although most central banks had added a financial stability
objective in the years prior to the crisis, the monetary policy
and financial stability wings of many institutions operated as
two solitudes. For example, the standard new Keynesian
transmission channels in workhorse monetary policy models
ignored not only the financial accelerator but also broader
procyclical dynamics in modern money and credit markets.  Macro modeling work focused on credit-market imperfections,
only to the extent that they gave rise to financial-accelerator
effects rather than broader financial system procyclicalities.
In the most sophisticated models, lending conditions faced by
firms and households were explicitly tied to collateral such as
housing. As a result, credit expansion became more procyclical
with household and business spending more closely tied to the
health of their respective balance sheets. While an important
step forward from the previous “lifetime budget constraint”
approach, the dynamics created by these sorts of credit-market
frictions remained benign and, hence, the policy dilemma facing
the central bank was little changed.  More generally, without financial systems, these models
didn’t have the types of non-linear dynamics necessary to create
the possibility of a financial crisis. Combined with the
bluntness of monetary policy, this implied essentially no role
for leaning. There was similarly little appreciation that
broader procyclical dynamics in money and credit markets could
be triggered by the attainment of price stability itself.  As central banks would belatedly realise, such downplaying
of real-financial linkages obscured the scale of emerging
vulnerabilities and challenged the initial crisis response.  Monetary Policy and the Financial Crisis  It is safe to say that most policy-makers didn’t see the
crisis coming. In part this was because central banks
underappreciated the scale of endogenous liquidity creation in
the system. In addition, while central banks may have lamented
the large and persistent global current account imbalances that
had emerged in the pre-crisis period, we failed to make the link
between these flows and rising financial imbalances in many
advanced economies.  As a result, when the crisis broke in 2007, it was regarded
as an almost exogenous, limited event. Most of the initial
explanations of its causes concentrated on micro factors such as
bankers’ incentives and the opaqueness of markets. Events did
not even signal a crisis but rather mere “turbulence”-
sufficiently bothersome to fasten seatbelts - but not serious
enough to bring down the plane.  Jean-Claude Trichet , then
president of the  European Central Bank , spoke for many when he
admitted that it was only after the collapse of Bear Stearns
that he was “prepared to speak of a crisis.”  Ultimately, the financial turbulence was too severe to
ignore. As President Bush stated bluntly at an emergency cabinet
meeting in September 2008: “This sucker could go down.”  Policy-makers reacted quickly.  Central banks’ dormant financial stability wings sprang
into action. As money markets seized up, central banks followed
Bagehot’s dictum: lend liberally on good collateral at a penalty
rate. Echoes of the Great Depression motivated a swift and
aggressive response. Major central banks provided hundreds of
billions of dollars in extraordinary liquidity through a
combination of repo facilities, standing facilities, securities
lending and reciprocal swap agreements.  In undertaking these liquidity measures, many central banks
extolled a “separation principle” to distinguish actions in
support of market functioning and financial stability from those
directed to price stability. With time, however, this separation
would be revealed to be increasingly arbitrary. The emergency
liquidity measures, which were initially aimed at ensuring
proper market functioning and financial stability, had the
effect of repairing a broken monetary policy transmission
mechanism. Over time, and in jurisdictions with more severe
impairments, more aggressive measures had to be put into place.  These measures helped to provide the stimulus to support
activity and price stability. The links between price and
financial stability were increasingly evident.  The monetary policy response to the severe recession
brought on by the financial crisis was bolder still,
commensurate with the magnitude of the collapse in demand.  In the fall of 2008, in response to the rapidly
deteriorating conditions in global financial markets, a
weakening  U.S. economy , and an abrupt drop in commodity prices,
G-10 central banks, including the Bank of Canada, conducted an
exceptional, coordinated interest rate cut of 50 basis points,
the first since the 11 September terrorist attacks. Policy rates
in many advanced economies quickly reached their effective lower
bounds.  As the crisis progressed, major central banks that needed
to provide additional stimulus also deployed major
unconventional measures, swelling central bank balance sheets to
unprecedented sizes.  Ultimately, the combination of the scale of the demand
shock, the need for clear communications, and the imperative of
anchoring inflation expectations all helped to convince both the
 Federal Reserve  and the  Bank of Japan  to adopt inflation-
targeting regimes.  Indeed, Canada’s inflation-targeting regime was shown to be
an essential asset throughout the crisis. It provided a clear
framework within which the Bank could supply the aggressive
monetary stimulus required in response to large external shocks.
The credible inflation-targeting regime was a critical anchor
through those turbulent times, giving the Bank an unwavering
goal to guide its policy actions, and providing financial
markets and the public with a clear means to understand the
rationale behind them. That understanding was reflected in the
relative stability of inflation expectations during the crisis,
which remained well anchored to the 2 per cent target.  While the experience of the crisis demonstrated the
essential value of flexible inflation targeting as the dominant
monetary policy framework, events suggested some core lessons
that could influence its form and conduct.  Lessons Learned
Price stability does not guarantee financial stability  As John Crow emphasised in 1988, the paramount goal of
monetary policy in Canada is price stability. This remains the
case.  How then to address a central lesson that price stability
can be, in fact, associated with excessive credit growth and
emerging asset bubbles, which in turn can ultimately compromise
the achievement of price stability?  The crisis made painfully clear that low, stable and
predictable inflation and low variability in activity -
especially when associated with exceptionally low and stable
interest rates - can breed complacency among financial market
participants as risk-taking adapts to the perceived new
equilibrium. This dynamic sows the seeds for future, powerful
financial instability and (ultimately) instability in output and
inflation.  Experience suggests that prolonged periods of unusually low
rates can cloud assessments of financial risks and induce a
search for yield. Indeed, risk can be at its greatest when
measures of it are at their lowest. Low variability of inflation
and output (reduces current financial VaR and) encourages
greater risk-taking (on a forward VaR basis). Investors stretch
from liquid to less-liquid markets. In parallel, low and stable
interest rates promote larger asset-liability mismatches across
credit and currency markets. These tendencies are particularly
marked if there is a perceived certainty about the stability of
low interest rates.  It would also appear that the “clean” doctrine could
actually reinforce risk-taking behaviour. The combination of the
central bank’s silence over the existence of a possible bubble,
the certainty that it would not respond to emerging financial
pressures, and the expectation that it would mop up if the
bubble burst all conspired to exacerbate the crisis.  None of these dynamics of the risk-taking channel of
monetary policy is possible in the standard new Keynesian
models, given their simplistic treatment of financial markets.
However, the problem is deeper still, given the nature of asset-
price formation and how individuals actually make decisions.  The new Keynesian approach highlighted the importance of
credibility and expectations, but what if expectations
themselves were a source of fluctuations?  Financial markets are
famously prone to bouts of euphoria and despair. The work of
Hyman Minsky, rediscovered since the crisis, outlines a
“financial instability hypothesis” in which stability
encourages exuberance, excess and a subsequent reckoning. More
generally, given the inherent uncertainty about the future,
people can make mistakes when estimating their future incomes.
Reasons for this behaviour can vary from inappropriately
extrapolating the consequences of a new technology or a
prolonged period of stability to simply assuming that the future
must look like the recent past.  Whatever the cause, excessive optimism can lead to
overestimates of future growth in incomes and asset prices,
creating for a time a self-reinforcing asset and credit boom.
These misperceptions can build over years, leaving households,
businesses and banks badly exposed when the scales fall from
their eyes. Eventually, the future is now and reality reasserts.  With macroeconomic stability, including price stability,
playing a role in the buildup of financial instability, the
questions regarding the proper role of monetary policy need to
be asked.  Monetary policy is the last line of defence against financial
vulnerabilities  These questions remain highly relevant. In the crisis
economies, market expectations that policy interest rates will
stay at very low levels for a very long time appear firmly
entrenched. In the non-crisis economies, the challenging
external environment has also required bold policy actions and,
despite well-functioning domestic financial systems, policy
rates remain near historic lows and real rates have been
generally negative.  A low-for-long world could trigger the dynamics just
described, in particular excessive credit creation and risk-
taking. Concerning levels of  household debt  can build in non-
crisis economies, as they have in Canada, where a well-
functioning financial system has combined with an environment of
low interest rates since 2008.  It does not necessarily follow that monetary policy must
immediately react. Indeed, one of the most important
considerations in designing effective policy is the assignment
of responsibilities. In Canada, the hierarchy is very clear with
the Minister of Finance having ultimate responsibility for the
health of the financial system.  The first line of defence against a buildup of financial
imbalances is responsible behaviour by individuals and
institutions. Next come micro- and macroprudential regulation
and supervision, which have been applied effectively in Canada.
For example, since withstanding the crisis, Canadian banks have
become considerably stronger. Their common equity capital has
increased by 81 per cent, or $77 billion, and they already meet
the new Basel III capital requirements, six full years ahead of
schedule.  With respect to mortgage finance, the Government of Canada
has made four timely and prudent adjustments to the terms of
mortgage insurance and the Office of the Superintendent of
Financial Institutions has tightened underwriting guidelines.
Canadian authorities are co-operating closely and will continue
to monitor the financial situation of the household sector.  These defences will go a long way toward mitigating the
risk of financial excesses, but the Bank now recognises that
there may be some cases when monetary policy may still have to
take financial stability considerations into account. This is
most obviously the case when financial imbalances affect the
near-term outlook for output and inflation.  On the margin, monetary policy should be complementary to
macroprudential efforts that have already been instituted.
Whether it should actively lean depends on the severity of the
imbalances and how effective the macroprudential measures are
expected to be.  In exceptional circumstances, when financial imbalances
pose an economy-wide threat or where imbalances themselves are
being encouraged by a low interest rate environment, monetary
policy itself may be needed to support financial stability.
Monetary policy has a broad influence on financial markets and
on the leverage of financial institutions that cannot easily be
avoided. This bluntness makes monetary policy an inappropriate
tool to deal with sector-specific imbalances but a valuable one
to address imbalances that may have economy-wide implications.
As Fed Governor  Jeremy Stein  has put it, monetary policy “has
one important advantage relative to supervision and regulation -
namely that it gets in all of the cracks.”  Moreover, this role for monetary policy in the preservation
of financial stability is perfectly consistent with ensuring
longer-run price stability. Financial imbalances ultimately
breed crises, and crises threaten price stability. The clear
lesson is that a central bank pursuing price stability without
due regard for financial stability risks achieving neither. At
present, the best way to accomplish these intertwined goals,
which requires setting monetary policy in the context of other
policies directed at financial stability, remains a matter of
debate.  Central banks are not powerless at the zero lower bound  In the pre-crisis era, most saw the zero lower bound on
nominal interest rates as something of a theoretical curiosity.
Japan alone had faced this issue in recent times, and this was
thought to be a special case.  With the onset of the crisis, the zero lower bound went
from remote possibility to reality with frightening speed.  We have learned that central banks are not powerless at the
zero lower bound, but nor should they relish finding themselves
there. The effectiveness of unconventional policy is more
uncertain, the risks more varied and its exit, as yet, untested.  As has been demonstrated, even if the policy rate is as low
as it can go, longer-term market rates and the lending rates set
by financial institutions are still likely to be well above
zero. These interest rates directly affect the spending
decisions of households and businesses. In these circumstances,
the aim of monetary policy would be to continue to exert
downward pressure on these rates and to improve the availability
of credit and financial conditions more generally.  While the Bank of Canada has not had to use quantitative or
credit easing, we have learned a great deal about these measures
through contingency planning and by monitoring the experiences
of other central banks.  Quantitative easing refers to outright purchases of
financial assets funded by the expansion of the monetary base
through the creation of central bank reserves, enlarging the
central bank’s balance sheet. If assets are imperfect
substitutes, these purchases push up the price of, and reduce
the yield on, the purchased assets (which normally are
 government securities  but could include private assets). The
reduced yields on the purchased assets and the displacement of
private investors lead to a rebalancing of private portfolios
toward other riskier assets, thereby spreading the stimulative
impact across financial markets. Ultimately, higher asset prices
and lower yields support aggregate demand and the achievement of
the inflation target.  Credit easing refers to purchases of private sector assets
in certain credit markets that are important to the functioning
of the financial system but that are temporarily impaired. The
objective of credit easing is to reduce risk premiums and
improve liquidity and trading activity in these markets. This
would, in turn, stimulate credit flows and aggregate demand.  Moreover, as with any policy action, the effectiveness of
unconventional policies requires that they remain credible and
consistent with well-anchored inflation expectations.  The benefits of these unconventional policy measures in
those countries that have deployed them are difficult to
quantify. The available evidence suggests that it is very likely
that had central banks not introduced such unconventional
measures, the result might well have been a deeper recession,
higher unemployment and even weaker inflation.  For example, the studies by the  Bank of England  and the
U.S. Federal Reserve of their respective asset-purchase programs
are broadly consistent. It is clear that the programs have had
some positive effects. Government bond yields were reduced.
Corporate investment-grade and high-yield spreads also fell
markedly, as did yields on mortgage-backed securities in the
United States. The evidence is that the stimulative effects then
fed into equity prices. It does not appear that there is such a
thing as a fixed “multiplier” from asset purchases to other
financial asset prices, but rather it seems likely that the
scope to influence financial markets varies with market
conditions. Asset purchases probably have a greater effect when
markets are functioning poorly and liquidity premia are high.  It is even more difficult to judge how those effects in
financial markets, whatever their magnitude, have been
transmitted to the macroeconomy. The weakness of growth since
quantitative easing was introduced is not itself a reason to
doubt that it is an effective policy. There seems to be some
evidence that large-scale asset purchases have boosted the
demand for riskier assets, allowing those companies with access
to  capital markets  to access funds more cheaply than otherwise.
That probably includes banks, which have benefited both from
higher demand for their debt and from an improved liquidity
position through the boost to their holdings of reserves at
central banks. What is less clear is the extent to which that
has translated into an expansion of bank lending in support of
the real economy.  It is clear that unconventional measures, while undertaken
in pursuit of traditional monetary policy goals, raise broader
issues regarding the role of the central bank. This puts a
premium on well-articulated frameworks agreed between the
central bank and its fiscal authority in advance of any such
operation.  Communications matter  The crisis has reinforced the fundamental importance of
effective communications.  When the Bank of Canada lowered interest rates to the zero
lower bound and judged that additional stimulus was needed, the
Bank deployed forward guidance. In designing forward guidance,
central banks must trade off flexibility and impact. One can
view the historical evolution of guidance as having proceeded
through three “generations,” becoming increasingly explicit
and state-contingent over time.  In its first generation, extraordinary guidance was
qualitative and provided no explicit indication of the timing or
conditions under which policy may tighten. As with many policies
at the zero lower bound, Japan was the pioneer of first-
generation guidance. As early as 1999, Japan indicated that
rates would stay at zero until “deflationary concerns” were
“dispelled.” Later, the condition was refined: rates would be
kept at zero until the CPI registered “stably” non-negative
inflation.
The U.S. Federal Reserve employed a similar tactic in 2003 when
it indicated “policy accommodation” could be maintained for a
“considerable period.” Rates in the United States were not at
the zero lower bound, but guidance was used, in part, because
the Fed wanted to avoid cutting rates further. The Federal
Reserve returned to this approach in late 2008 and early 2009
with its “some time” and “extended period” language.  All of these first-generation variants required market
participants to interpret words such as “stably,”
“considerable” or “extended.” The scope for interpretation
meant that central banks had effectively chosen to retain
greater flexibility by sacrificing impact.  In April 2009, the Bank of Canada pioneered the second
generation of guidance by providing a conditional commitment
with an explicit date. With our key policy rate reaching one-
quarter of one per cent, the lowest it could effectively go, we
provided further stimulus by committing to hold rates at the
effective lower bound, conditional on the outlook for inflation,
through the second quarter of 2010. The explicit conditionality
on inflation provided critical information to the private sector
about how the date may change in response to new information.  Our conditional commitment worked because it was
exceptional, explicit and anchored in a highly credible
inflation-targeting framework. It worked because we “put our
money where our mouths were” by extending much of the almost
$30 billion in exceptional liquidity programs we had in place
for the duration of the conditional commitment. And it worked
because it reached beyond central bank watchers to make a clear,
simple statement directly to Canadians.  Last December, the Fed pioneered the third generation of
guidance, when it publicly announced a precise threshold for
unemployment that must be met before the policy rate is raised.
This was combined with an inflation “knockout” to ensure
consistency with price stability and mitigate the risk of
underestimating the sustainable rate of unemployment. In
principle, a central bank could design state-contingent
thresholds using other real or nominal variables.  The various types of extraordinary guidance share some
common channels of stimulus. In particular, guidance allows a
central bank to substitute duration and greater certainty
regarding the interest rate outlook for the negative interest
rate setting that may be warranted but cannot be achieved.  By increasing the expected duration at the lower bound,
guidance can lead to lower long-term nominal rates. The
increased certainty regarding the path of rates reinforces this
stimulative effect. At the zero lower bound, interest rate risk
is asymmetric: short-term rates can rise, but they cannot fall.
This asymmetry causes the mean or expected outlook for short
rates to be greater than the mode or most likely path. Thus,
even if agents believe that short rates are most likely to
remain at the lower bound for some time, the expected path of
short rates can be higher. Since arbitrage in financial markets
links yields on long-term bonds to the expected path of short
rates, this effect buoys long rates. Guidance can lower long
rates by reducing uncertainty about the future path of short
rates. Specifically, by clarifying the conditions under which
short rates may rise, guidance can reduce the perceived
probability of rate increases. This can reduce long rates even
if it does not extend the expected duration at the lower bound.  Real interest rates are further reduced by the positive
impact of guidance on inflation expectations. As with any
monetary policy, the  exchange rate  also plays a role in
transmitting the effect of the policy to the real economy.  Regardless of its precise form, state-contingent guidance
can reveal information about the central bank’s discretion. For
example, the Fed’s state-contingent guidance draws into sharper
relief the trade-offs that an inflation-targeting central bank
makes when determining the optimal path to return inflation to
target. Put another way, the combination of the threshold and
the base-case (or central tendency) forecast can effectively
reveal the central bank’s reaction function. In the extreme,
this can reveal the extent of the central bank’s flexibility
under its remit. Crucially, by outlining (and bounding) the
consequences of its strategy for near-term inflation dynamics,
the central bank can help anchor inflation expectations and
retain credibility.  The need to “complete the contract”  This leads naturally to the final lesson. As I discussed
earlier, the pre-crisis monetary policy consensus embodied an
independent central bank pursuing its price-stability objective
under “constrained discretion.” Within limits, following a
shock, the central bank determined the optimal path to return
inflation to target in a manner that minimised excessive
fluctuations in economic activity and employment. These
boundaries were seldom explicitly defined; in this regard, the
contract between the central bank and the government was
incomplete.  In the tranquil macroeconomic environment of the “Great
Moderation,” this ambiguity didn’t matter. Central banks
generally sought to return inflation to target over a standard
medium-term monetary policy horizon of six to eight quarters.
They were largely successful. This created a virtuous cycle of
credibility and well-anchored inflation expectations.  With the scale and the persistence of the shocks now
present, such ambiguity can be unhelpful.  The flexibility that central banks may require, both to
address the consequences of the crisis and to reduce the risk of
a repeat, raises a fundamental question about the appropriate
constraints on central banks’ delegated authority.
This is not a general appeal for looser policy. In some
circumstances where financial vulnerabilities threaten to
continue to build, policy may need to be tighter, all else
equal. In all cases, the degree of flexibility must be
constrained by central bank credibility and inflation
expectations.  Making operational a more flexible role for monetary policy
requires clear frameworks. By delineating the bounds on the
authority delegated to the central bank, a clear framework
enhances the central bank’s accountability. It also helps
private decision-makers understand the central bank’s objectives
and methods.  In this way, a clear framework can importantly enhance the
effectiveness of monetary policy by allowing people to bring
forward the effects of anticipated future policy. There is an
analogy to the dynamics underpinning the firm anchoring of
inflation expectations in Canada.  It is quite probable that a general understanding that
monetary policy will be employed to counteract the buildup of
certain types of financial imbalances will enhance the
stabilising effect of leaning. For example, private agents may
choose to accumulate less debt if they understand that a broad-
based buildup of debt is likely to cause the central bank to
raise interest rates. Moreover, Bank of Canada research suggests
that the magnitude of the required interest rate adjustment is
likely to be smaller if the role of leaning within the monetary
policy framework is credible and well understood. If leaning is
understood, expectations will do some of our work for us.  Expectation effects of this type are not foreign to central
bankers. Most notably, the adoption of inflation targeting
caused inflation expectations to become firmly anchored.
Expectations went from being the destabilising driver of wage
and price spirals in the 1970s to the stabilising anchor of the
Great Moderation in the 1990s. As a consequence, policy rates
have been much less volatile during the inflation-targeting era
than anyone could have anticipated. Similarly, if we ignore the
beneficial effects of expectations within a credible framework,
we risk overestimating the policy rate adjustments required to
lean effectively.  The Bank of Canada has found this approach to work in
practice. The Bank adopted a tightening bias in April 2012, and
noted that the evolution of the risks related to household
imbalances in Canada may be a factor affecting the timing and
degree of any withdrawal of monetary stimulus. This, along with
the cumulative effects of changes to mortgage insurance rules
and the tightening of mortgage underwriting guidelines, as well
as an increasing appreciation among consumers of the risks
associated with elevated debt levels, has resulted in a more
constructive evolution of household imbalances in recent
quarters. In 2011, household credit was growing at a pace of
over 6 per cent, and only about half of new residential  mortgage
loans  were arranged at fixed interest rates. Growth in household
credit has since fallen closer to 3 per cent, and roughly 90 per
cent of new mortgages are now fixed rate.  When to deploy flexibility  More generally, there are three sets of circumstances under
which it may be desirable to return inflation to target, from
above or below, over a horizon that is somewhat longer than
usual.  First, the unfolding consequences of a shock could be
sufficiently large and persistent that a longer horizon might be
warranted in order to provide greater stability to the economy
and financial markets. While optimal policy in new Keynesian
models would advocate immediately and fully offsetting the
inflationary consequences of shocks that do not create a tension
between stabilisation objectives, reality is more complicated.
For instance, following a very large shock, lags in the
transmission mechanism alone would make it difficult to return
inflation to target over the usual horizon without inducing a
subsequent overshoot/undershoot of the target.  Second, a longer targeting horizon can allow monetary
policy to promote adjustments to financial excesses or credit
crunches. A tighter monetary policy that allows inflation to run
below target for a longer period than usual could help to
counteract pre-emptively excessive leverage and a broader
buildup of financial imbalances. On the flip side, there could
be situations where, even though inflation is above target,
ongoing monetary policy stimulus and a somewhat longer horizon
to return inflation to target would be desirable in order to
facilitate the adjustment to the broad-based deleveraging forces
that are unfolding. Similarly, a longer targeting horizon may be
desirable if prolonged economic weakness risks eroding the
economy’s productive capacity. Current risks of hysteresis in
the labour markets of a number of countries at the zero lower
bound are a case in point.  Third, as the Bank of Canada has observed, the optimal
inflation-targeting horizon will vary with the evolution of the
risks to the outlook. Shocks to the economy, both observed and
prospective, are inevitably subject to a degree of uncertainty,
as is the precise manner in which they are transmitted to the
economy. This is symmetric; risks to the inflation outlook could
be skewed to the downside or the upside.  In recent years, for instance, a failure to contain the
crisis in Europe represents a clear downside risk and, absent
any other risks, would skew the inflation outlook to the
downside. In statistical terms, the mean or expected outlook for
inflation could be lower than the most likely or modal outlook.
In these cases, a balance must be struck between setting
monetary policy to be consistent with the mode and the need to
minimise the adverse consequences in the event that downside
risks materialise. This balancing of the risks could warrant a
more stimulative setting for monetary policy than would
otherwise be desirable in the absence of the downside risks.
However, if the downside risks fade away rather than
materialise, the resulting stronger inflationary pressures could
cause a small inflation overshoot and would therefore merit
returning inflation to target over a longer horizon. The
opposite would be true under circumstances where risks to
inflation are skewed to the upside.  In retrospect, it appears likely that monetary policy would
ideally have leaned against growing domestic financial
imbalances in the pre-crisis period, thereby mitigating the
eventual fall. At the very least, explicit consideration of the
role that monetary policy itself was playing in the buildup of
imbalances would have been cause to lean. This is fully
consistent with the view that the financial crisis was not
simply an exogenous shock to which policy had to respond after
the fact.  While there clearly would have been economic costs to
leaning, these must be viewed in relation to the enormous costs
associated with the crisis. Indeed, despite the swift and
aggressive clean response by the Fed and other central banks,
the U.S. economy still suffered a large and persistent economic
downturn. With less  capital investment  and more structural
unemployment, even once the U.S. economy recovers its cyclical
losses, the Bank estimates that it will remain over $1 trillion
smaller in 2015 than we had projected prior to the crisis.
Already, U.S. weakness means that Canadian exports are $30
billion lower than they would normally be at this stage in the
cycle.  Relative to the previous consensus, the lean versus clean
debate now appears to be, at the very least, more finely
balanced, if not tipping in favour of pre-emptive leaning
(depending of course on the stance and effectiveness of
macroprudential policy).  Nonetheless, there is no simple, one-size-fits-all rule for
responding. Indeed, the crisis taught us that not all financial
imbalances are created equal. Imbalances fuelled by a credit
boom, which may manifest itself in asset-price movements, pose
the greatest risk to the economy, because of the powerful
deleveraging process they induce when they unwind. When
exuberant credit creation is not part of the buildup of
financial imbalances, the consequences for the economy of
falling asset prices are not as dramatic, and hence the need to
lean to avoid such disequilibria may be smaller.  In contrast, there is a more compelling argument for
leaning when imbalances are broad based, as opposed to
concentrated in a particular sector, since the effects of
monetary policy itself are broad based. Similarly, monetary
policy may have a greater role to play when imbalances
themselves are being encouraged by a low interest rate
environment.  Toward a More Effective Flexible Inflation-Targeting Framework  Allow me to review what I believe we have learned.  The conclusions that Governor Crow outlined a quarter
century ago remain valid.  Price stability should remain the
paramount objective of monetary policy. Given the evident
absence of a long-run trade-off between employment and
inflation, maintaining price stability is consistent with
promoting full employment and represents the best contribution
of monetary policy to economic welfare.  The core elements of pre-crisis inflation-targeting
frameworks also remain essential. In particular, a clear
inflation objective pursued by an independent central bank
facilitates the achievement of both low inflation and full
employment, while transparent communications ensure the
effectiveness of policy and the accountability of the central
bank.  We now better appreciate that price stability does not
guarantee financial stability. Furthermore, we are beginning to
recognise that price stability itself may actually promote
financial instability over the medium term. This risk-taking
channel of monetary policy limits the ability of monetary policy
to stabilise inflation and output without fostering financial
imbalances.  Central bankers overestimated their ability to stabilise
inflation and output.  Taking account of the disruptive
potential of financial instability--absent effective
macroprudential policies--leads to a less favourable Taylor
frontier, or what Mervyn King has called the Minsky-Taylor
frontier.  Consider the example in Chart 9. For a time, a central bank
may appear to be able to achieve levels of inflation and output
volatility on the Taylor frontier. However, the apparent
stability of inflation and output may conceal the buildup of
longer-run financial imbalances. If these imbalances result in a
crisis, it will become obvious that the Taylor frontier was
never feasible. Attempting to implement a policy that leads to
point A on the Taylor frontier will ultimately leave the central
bank at a point like B on the Minsky-Taylor frontier. But point
B is arbitrary--it is not the outcome of a deliberate policy
decision, and therefore may not strike an optimal balance
between inflation and output volatility. Once the central bank
recognises that it is operating on the Minsky-Taylor frontier,
it can make a more informed decision, possibly choosing a point
such as C.  The scale of the shocks now facing major advanced economies
is stretching the conventional flexibility of inflation-
targeting frameworks. Similarly, if macro-prudential policies
were to prove insufficient, leaning might justify returning
inflation to target over a horizon longer than historic norms.  These demands complicate the conduct of monetary policy,
but those complications do not absolve the central bank of its
responsibilities. In facing these challenges, it is critical to
have a clear framework. The better this framework is understood
by the public, the greater the chance of success.  It is fundamentally important that agents understand a
central bank’s reaction function. The clearer it is, the more
effective policy will be. Leaning can promote financial
stability more effectively if agents anticipate the central
bank’s actions. Guidance can crystallise boundaries on the
degree of flexibility in inflation- targeting frameworks.  As with everything, there are limits. The time frame for
returning inflation to target can be stretched, but the
credibility essential for the success of such a tactic could be
undermined if such flexibility is taken too far, deployed too
frequently or undertaken by stealth.  Clear policy frameworks, combined with transparent
communications, play a critical role in building and preserving
credibility. For this reason, it is incumbent on central banks
to enunciate clearly the expected path of inflation back to
target and to explain any deviations from the normal horizon.
This would not only help shed light on the central bank’s
reaction pattern, but also define the boundaries of the
flexibility that may be employed. Changes to the previously
understood horizons should be sanctioned by the relevant
executive or legislative authority, which ultimately defines the
constraints on the central bank’s discretion.  Monetary policy tactics, particularly communications, can
play an important role in anchoring inflation expectations and
retaining the credibility necessary for monetary policy to be
effective. Guidance and state-contingent thresholds are examples
of mechanisms to define the boundaries of flexibility. In the
extreme, they can effectively reveal and reinforce the central
bank’s reaction function, thereby helping to retain credibility
and anchor inflation expectations.  Finally, consideration of the monetary policy framework
cannot be set in a vacuum. The central bank can’t be expected to
do it all. Different authorities have different absolute and
comparative advantages in addressing problems and achieving
desired outcomes. This leads to a natural assignment of
principal responsibilities.  Central banks clearly have an important role in assessing
potential vulnerabilities. Micro- and macroprudential
authorities are the obvious first responders to any such risks.
There are several lines of defence against emerging financial
vulnerabilities that can be employed before using monetary
policy. It is imperative that authorities continue to develop
such tools and improve upon the effectiveness of their
deployment. Needless to say, given the interrelationships,
coordination and co-operation among authorities is essential.  We should recognise that progress in micro- and
macroprudential instruments and supervision will lessen the
burden on monetary policy. In addition, financial sector reform
should limit the occurrence of systemic events. If the G-20’s
ambitions in this sphere are realised, monetary policy will be
more likely to be able to focus on its main mission.  Conclusion: Elements of a Forward Research Agenda  It has been a fascinating, sometimes harrowing, five years
since Governor Dodge’s Hanson Lecture. The fallout from the
crisis has increased the demands on monetary policy and has
stretched the flexibility of inflation-targeting frameworks.  While the crisis left us with many lessons, we still have
much to learn. Allow me to conclude by highlighting some of the
fields of research already under investigation at the Bank of
Canada and elsewhere.  First, the financial crisis has given renewed importance to
earlier research aimed at including in policy models the
interactions between financial market imperfections and the real
economy. To reflect fully financial market dynamics, the
deceptive simplicity and elegance of complete markets operating
in linear, rational expectations environments must give way to
the chaotic reality of heterogeneous beliefs, risk-taking
behaviour, feedback effects from excess leverage, endogenous
uncertainty, and a non-trivial role for financial
intermediaries. That is hard enough to pronounce, let alone to
do, but progress is being made, and the eventual payoff will be
large.  A key benefit of this line of research will be a more
complete understanding of the channels through which monetary
policy itself can contribute to financial stability. Chief among
these is a better understanding of the risk-taking channel of
monetary policy. While progress has been made in modeling
elements of the risk-taking channel in isolation, incorporating
it in a tractable way in macroeconomic policy models remains a
work in progress.  Researchers at the Bank of Canada are exploring the policy
implications of interactions between the balance sheets of
banks, households and businesses. Importantly, this framework
introduces a link between the risk appetite of investors and
aggregate funding conditions in wholesale markets. Specifically,
when funding liquidity is plentiful, the risk appetite of
investors increases, inducing them to rebalance their portfolios
toward riskier assets.  The advantage of all of this is to better anticipate
medium-term dynamics and promote better conduct of
macroprudential policies and coordination with monetary policy.  Second, the zero lower bound has proven to be a larger and
more persistent constraint on conventional and unconventional
monetary policy than was generally predicted using models
estimated with pre-crisis data. This underscores the importance
of the non-linearities and tail risks inherent in real economies
that are largely absent from the workhorse models. Forthcoming
work at the Bank of Canada shows that uncertainty effects alone
can have a profound impact on private sector behaviour in the
vicinity of the zero lower bound. Specifically, an important
asymmetry is created when agents know there is a lower bound,
but no corresponding upper bound, on the future path of the
policy rate. As the policy rate approaches the zero bound, this
asymmetry becomes more pronounced, resulting in weaker private
sector spending which, in turn, further increases the
probability of hitting the bound.  Relatedly, to understand better how effective
unconventional policies are in circumventing the constraints
imposed by the zero lower bound, future research should continue
to exploit data currently being generated by central banks
employing such policies as quantitative easing and extraordinary
guidance. For instance, while consensus has emerged that
quantitative easing reduced longer-term yields on purchased
instruments in the United States and the United Kingdom, more
work is needed to assess its impact on demand and inflation.  Third, additional quantitative work is needed to guide
policy-makers on the power of, and limits to, forward guidance.
Conditional commitments to maintain the policy interest rate at
the zero lower bound can provide additional stimulus by lowering
the expected path of short-term interest rates as well as by
providing greater certainty around that path. While research to
date finds evidence that the conditional commitment by the Bank
of Canada in 2009, and the Fed more recently, did reduce longer-
term yields, more work is required to assess the extent to which
these declines in yields affected private sector spending and
inflation expectations relative to direct asset purchases and
conventional policy measures.  Recent research at the Bank of Canada indicates that the
power of the expectations channel of monetary policy is highly
sensitive to the precise manner in which expectations are
formed, and additional work is needed to help distinguish
between the various possibilities.  Fourth, a better understanding of expectations formation
can also contribute to defining the limits of flexible inflation
targeting as well as improving central bank communications
strategies and, through them, the effectiveness of monetary
policy. For this reason, the Bank of Canada will continue to
invest in this area, both through traditional econometric
analysis and by exploiting survey data and by drawing on
experimental economics.  Finally, the Bank will continue to investigate potential
improvements to the monetary policy framework, including the
merits of alternative frameworks in avoiding and exiting the
zero lower bound and the interaction of monetary and other macro
policies. As we meet today, the combination of the difficulty of
exiting the zero lower bound and the uncertainty over cost-
benefits of unconventional policies underscore the desirability
of having a monetary policy framework that will minimise the
prospect of its attainment.  One of the core strengths of Canada’s system is the
periodic review of our monetary policy framework that leads to
the renewal of our inflation-control agreement between the Bank
of Canada and the Government of Canada every five years. Further
research on some of the issues I have raised in this speech will
help inform future agreements and the conduct of policy.  As promised, I am leaving you with more questions than
answers. Perhaps a future Bank of Canada Governor will deliver
the Hanson Lecture that ties this all together. Peut-être
qu’elle m’ecoute actuellement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  