-- Baring Frontier Manager Avoids Egypt Stocks as IMF Talks Stall
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2013-05-01T09:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/baring-frontier-manager-avoids-egypt-stocks-as-imf-talks-stall.html
Baring Asset Management, the  money
manager  once owned by the bank brought down by  Nick Leeson , is
shunning Egyptian stocks until the country’s talks with the
 International Monetary Fund  for a $4.8 billion loan conclude.  “Valuations in our opinion aren’t discounted enough to
make us feel comfortable with taking positions in the market,”
Michael Levy, a London-based frontier fund manager at Baring,
said in an April 25 telephone interview. “We are waiting to see
what happens with the IMF and the political issues.”  Egypt’s efforts to sign a deal with the IMF have been hurt
by violence between supporters of the country’s new Islamist
government and its opponents. That’s made it more difficult to
implement IMF-backed changes after declines in the country’s
main sources of income, such as tourism, choked the economy.  Egypt ’s benchmark EGX30 Index has dropped 4.9 percent this
year after rising 51 percent in 2012. International investors
are also concerned that a slumping local currency will diminish
the value of their holdings, according to Wael Ziada, head of
research at Egyptian investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE.  The EGX 30 Index has a price-to-earnings ratio of 18.6
times, versus 12.2 times for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index,
which has declined 1.5 percent this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Still, “If we’re talking about 10 years time, Egypt should
be a success story,” Levy said. ”It’s got the demographics,
political transition, resources and it’s got under penetration
of goods and services.”  The Egyptian market is closed today for a public holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  