-- Bayern Routs Barca to Set Up All-German Champions League Final
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-05-01T22:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/bayern-munich-defeats-barcelona-to-reach-champions-league-final.html
Bayern Munich routed Barcelona 7-0
over two matches to set up the first all-German Champions League
soccer final.  Second-half goals by  Arjen Robben  and  Thomas Mueller , plus
an own goal from  Gerard Pique , gave Bayern a 3-0 win to wrap up
the semifinal last night at the Nou Camp Stadium in Spain.  Bayern will face German Bundesliga foe Borussia Dortmund in
the title match of Europe’s elite club competition May 25 at
Wembley Stadium in London. It will be the fourth time that teams
from the same country meet in the final.  “We’ll celebrate with a few beers tonight,” Bayern
captain Philipp Lahm said on the website of tournament organizer
UEFA. “It’s not taken for granted to beat Barcelona on their
home ground 3-0 but I’ve always said we have special characters
in our squad and that we’re capable of great things.”  Dortmund, which beat Real Madrid by a 4-3 total in the
other semifinal, won its only  Champions League  final appearance
in 1997. It claimed the German Bundesliga title the past two
years before losing out to Bayern this season.  “It’s going to be a big one,” Robben said in an interview
with Sky Sports. “Borussia Dortmund has proven over the last
two, three years that they are a very good team. It will be
decided on very small details.”  Bayern will be making its third appearance in the final in
four seasons, having lost to Inter Milan in 2010 and Chelsea
last year. The last of its four European Cup titles came in 2001.  Chasing Sweep  Bayern is chasing an unprecedented sweep of three major
trophies this season. In addition to its 23rd German league
championship, the Bavarian club has advanced to the final of the
domestic cup competition. No team from Germany has won its
league and cup and the Champions League in the same season.  “When I came to Bayern one of my objectives was to win
trophies,” midfielder Javi Martinez said on UEFA’s website.
“We have won one and now are in two finals.”  Barcelona played without striker  Lionel Messi , who’s been
bothered by a hamstring injury. The four-time world player of
the year played all 90 minutes of the opening 4-0 loss in
Germany last week, before coming on a substitute in a 2-2 draw
with Athletic Bilbao in the Spanish league last weekend.  “The fact that Lionel Messi, the best player in the world,
did not play was a factor, but I do not think his participation
tonight would have changed things all that much,” Pique said on
UEFA’s website.  Run Ends  Barcelona was seeking its fifth title, and fourth in eight
seasons. The Spanish league leader lost for the first time in 22
Champions League home games, dating back to a 2-1 defeat to
 Rubin Kazan  in October 2009.  Neither team could muster a clear scoring chance in the
first half. Robben was sent free on a counter attack in the 12th
minute before being stopped by backtracking defender Gerard
Pique.  Pedro Rodriguez ’s long shot in the 25th minute was
deflected out for a corner kick and  Xavi Hernandez  sent a volley
over goal moments later. Another long shot from Adriano was
gathered in by  Manuel Neuer , who also caught Dani Alves’s high
cross as Bayern continued to thwart the home side.  Barcelona’s frustration grew further four minutes into the
second half as Robben took David Alaba’s cross-field pass on the
right side, cut to the middle of the area and curled a left-
footed shot past  Victor Valdes  for the first goal of the game.  Barcelona coach Tito Vilanova then made two substitutions,
bringing on striker  Alexis Sanchez  for Xavi in the 55th minute
and Thiago Alcantara for  Andres Iniesta  10 minutes later,
sacrificing his two midfielder leaders with his club now needing
six goals to advance.  Bayern doubled its lead on the night in the 72nd minute
when  Franck Ribery ’s cross from the left was directed into the
net by Pique. Mueller closed the scoring four minutes later by
heading in another cross from Ribery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 