-- Bentley Solar Developer Plans $623 Million U.K. Investment
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-05-01T11:18:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/bentley-solar-developer-plans-623-million-u-k-investment.html
Lightsource Renewable Energy Ltd., the
U.K. developer that installed a sun-power project on the roof of
Bentley Motors Ltd., may invest as much as 400 million pounds
($623 million) this year in U.K. solar facilities.  Britain’s largest solar park developer said it expects to
install as much as 300 megawatts worth of facilities in the year
starting today, or about 40 projects, said Nick Boyle, chief
executive officer of the London-based company.  “We’re working on about 140 megawatts of projects at the
moment that will reach financial close before July,” he said in
an interview in  London . “We have a very large pipeline of self-
developed projects and a large number of other sites that we’re
in negotiations to buy off third parties.” Each project is
about 5 to 15 megawatts in capacity and will take about nine
months to build.  Britain aims to install as much as 22 gigawatts of solar
energy by 2020 as part of a target to get 15 percent of its
energy from renewables by the same year. The country offers
predictable revenue streams for investors because of government
subsidies and long-term power-purchase agreements that guarantee
prices, Murphy said.  While the company’s core focus is the U.K., it plans to
start looking at other jurisdictions this year where renewable
energy gets similar support, he said. He will consider countries
that are “safe” and “predictable,” such as  Germany ,  France 
and the U.S. Lightsource last year bought 66 sites in France for
94 million euros ($124 million).  Lightsource works with London-based Octopus Investments
Ltd. to raise money for its projects, mostly through Enterprise
Investment Schemes that offer tax breaks for investors in
higher-risk companies. The average investor contributes about
18,000 pounds, Murphy said. Lightsource currently operates about
300 megawatts of projects.  The 20,000-panel 5-megawatt installation for Bentley is the
largest rooftop solar power plant in the U.K., according to the
company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  