-- Buffett Pays $2.05 Billion for Remaining Stake in Iscar
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-05-01T13:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/berkshire-buys-remaining-stake-in-imc-for-2-05-billion-1-.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  agreed to pay
$2.05 billion for the 20 percent of IMC International
Metalworking Cos. that it doesn’t already own as Chairman  Warren Buffett  expands his bet on the Israeli manufacturer.  IMC, known as Iscar, makes cutting gear for industries
including aerospace and auto manufacturing. Jacob Harpaz will
remain chief executive officer of Tefen, Israel-based IMC, the
companies said today in a statement.  Buffett has structured deals to buy Marmon Holdings and IMC
to allow the selling families to retain a stake in the companies
they built. Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire can then increase
its ownership with the price based on the results after the
initial deal. He said in 2006 that he bought 80 percent of Iscar
in a transaction that valued the company at $5 billion.  “As you can surmise from the price we’re paying for the
remaining interest, IMC has enjoyed very significant growth
over the last seven years,” Buffett, 82, said in the statement.  Iscar had 11,933 employees at the end of last year,
compared with 6,518 six years earlier, according to Berkshire’s
 annual reports . The company has been bolstering operations in
Asia, including at its Tungaloy unit in Japan. Iscar has also
invested in TaeguTec Ltd., a cutting-tools maker based in  South
Korea .  Berkshire said in its most recent annual report that
revenue declined last year as demand weakened outside the U.S.
Still, Buffett counts Iscar among Berkshire’s “powerhouse
five” non-insurance operations, including Marmon, the
Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  railroad, Lubrizol and MidAmerican
Energy. The group had aggregate earnings of $10.1 billion last
year, up about $600 million from 2011.  ‘Powerhouse Five’  “Unless the U.S. economy tanks -- which we don’t expect --
our powerhouse five should again deliver higher earnings in
2013,” Buffett wrote in a letter to shareholders in March.
“The five outstanding CEOs who run them will see to that.”  Eitan Wertheimer, who sold the company to Berkshire in
2006, has described himself as Buffett’s “travel agent” and
accompanied the billionaire on meetings with business owners in
Asia,  Germany ,  Italy ,  Switzerland  and  Spain  as Berkshire hunts
for acquisitions.  Berkshire “fully appreciates the unique nature of the
global Israeli enterprise that we have created, and that is
committed to remaining true to that heritage,” Wertheimer said.  Buffett who hosts Berkshire’s annual meeting May 4, has
been searching for ways to deploy a cash hoard that stood at $47
billion at the end of 2012. He subsequently committed about $12
billion in February in a deal with  Jorge Paulo Lemann ’s 3G
Capital to take HJ Heinz Co. private. That transaction was
approved by shareholders of the ketchup maker yesterday.  Berkshire climbed 19 percent this year through yesterday in
 New York  trading. The shares closed at a record $161,025 on
April 25.  Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz provided legal advice to the
Wertheimer family and IMC, according to the statement. Berkshire
was advised by Munger, Tolles & Olson LLP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  