-- Blackhawks to Host Penguins at Soldier Field NHL Game on March 1
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-05-01T15:49:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/blackhawks-to-host-penguins-at-soldier-field-nhl-game-on-march-1.html
The Chicago Blackhawks will host the
Pittsburgh Penguins at Soldier Field on March 1 as the National
Hockey League increases the number of outdoor games.  The two teams will meet in the 63,000-seat stadium, home of
the National Football League’s Chicago Bears, the NHL said today
in an e-mailed release. It is the first of additional outdoor
games that the NHL plans to announce in the coming weeks as part
of its Stadium Series, according to the statement.  “Our fans and our teams love outdoor games,” NHL
Commissioner Gary Bettman said. “We are thrilled the 2014 Coors
Light NHL Stadium Series will present a number of these
experiences to a large number of our fans in a variety of
National Hockey League markets.”  Chicago hosted an outdoor contest in front of 40,818 fans
at Wrigley Field on Jan. 1, 2009, one of the NHL’s Winter
Classic games. The annual New Year’s Day game has produced five
of the six most-watched regular-season games in league history
in the U.S. A record 4.5 million viewers watched the 2011 game
between the Penguins and the Washington Capitals at Heinz Field
in Pittsburgh.  Michigan  Stadium will host the 2014 Winter Classic between
the Toronto Maple Leafs and the Detroit Red Wings, which could
break the record for attendance at a hockey game, according to
the NHL. Over 104,000 fans attended a 2010 college contest
between Michigan and Michigan State at the stadium in Ann Arbor,
Michigan.  The Blackhawks (36-7-5) finished the regular season with
the best record in the Western Conference, while the Penguins
(36-12-0) finished atop the Eastern Conference. The teams are
the favorites to meet in the Stanley Cup final, according to the
online sportsbook Bovada.lv.  The NHL wasn’t specific about how many more outdoors game
it would announce as part of the Stadium Series. TSN in  Canada 
reported two weeks ago that the league was preparing to hold six
outdoor games next season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  