-- BOE’s Bailey Says New Bank Entrants Must Be Easy to Wind Down
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-05-01T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/boe-s-bailey-says-new-bank-entrants-must-be-easy-to-wind-down.html
Bank of England Deputy Governor  Andrew Bailey  said he will prioritize approving new banks that can
demonstrate they will be simple to wind down in a crisis without
needing a public bailout.  If new entrant banks can “satisfy us on their
resolvability in order to be authorized, we will lower the
barriers and costs of opening for business,” Bailey, chief
executive officer of the Prudential Regulation Authority, said
in a speech in Edinburgh today.  “Put simply, if we don’t know how to deal with a failed
firm, we will inevitably set a higher barrier to entry,” he
said. “We have already started to put this new approach into
operation.”  The PRA, which took over from the Financial Services
Authority as the U.K.’s chief banking supervisor last month,
announced plans in March to reduce by half both the time it
takes startups to get approval and the amount of capital they
must hold. The regulator will let new lenders operate with a
capital ratio as low as 4.5 percent, the minimum allowed under
global standards, in an attempt to encourage competition.  In contrast, the PRA ordered Britain’s biggest banks the
same month to plug a 25 billion-pound ($39 billion) capital
shortfall to cover bigger potential losses, possible
compensation for mis-selling and stricter risk models.  Bailey also said that one of the objectives of macro-
prudential policy is to restrain booms with tighter rules and
damp the impact of crises.  “If the banking system is sufficiently capitalized against
future losses, it can play a full role in counter-cyclical
policy which seeks to respond to and lean against the conditions
of the day,” he said. “That is the essential use of forward-
looking judgment, done with the explicit objective in mind of
using financial regulation as a counter-cyclical tool.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  