-- BOE’s Broadbent Says Forecasting Errors Likely After Shocks
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-05-01T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/boe-s-broadbent-says-forecasting-errors-likely-after-shocks.html
Bank of England policy maker Ben Broadbent said the central banks’ projection errors in the wake
of the financial crisis are understandable given the inevitable
limits of economic forecasting.  It’s reasonable “to ask whether the Monetary Policy
Committee and other forecasters have taken too long to register
the full impact of the financial crisis,” Broadbent said in a
speech in  London  today. “The problem is that, after a
significant and persistent shock, you may well need time to
learn about its implications. As you do so, you are likely to
make repeated forecast errors in the same direction.”  The BOE is dealing with the findings of a review into its
forecasting by former Federal Reserve official David Stockton
that found shortcomings in its processes. The MPC conducts a
quarterly forecast round and its policy decision next week will
be guided by its latest projections.  “The mere existence of ‘errors’ -- even the word is
something of a misnomer -- is not, in and of itself, evidence
that something is wrong, or even improbable,” Broadbent said in
the speech at Queen Mary, University of London.  He said that the greater the degree of randomness, the more
time is needed to assess the merits of different forecasting
models. And people are “genetically under-endowed with the
patience” needed to make distinctions in assessing forecasting
processes, he said.  “We are naturally too inclined to see structure in what is
actually random,” Broadbent said. “We are also too inclined to
view a forecast ‘error’ as precisely that: someone’s mistake.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  