-- BOE’s Broadbent Says He Sees More Signs of Optimism on Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-05-01T20:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/boe-s-broadbent-says-he-sees-more-signs-of-optimism-on-economy.html
Bank of England  policy maker Ben Broadbent said there are more reasons to be optimistic about the
economy while acknowledging that there may be revisions to last
week’s better-than-forecast economic data.  “If you ask me are there signs other than just our
forecast that the economy is going to grow over the next six
months, I’d say yes, and there are probably more of those signs
than in the middle of last year,” Broadbent told reporters in
 London  today. Still, the BOE’s last forecasts in February are
“still a lot weaker than a normal recovery and weaker than even
the average,” he said.  Broadbent voted with the majority of the Monetary Policy
Committee last month when it kept its  stimulus program  on hold.
While data last week showed that gross domestic product rose 0.3
percent in the  first quarter  and the economy avoided a triple-
dip recession, Broadbent said the result on its own doesn’t have
much significance as the figures may get revised.  “These things get revised all over the place,” he said.
“We don’t know how persistent it is. It’s better up than down,
but given the margin of error in these things, I don’t think it
has that much significance.”  Broadbent, an external member of the MPC who previously
worked as an economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said the
recent decline in commodity prices was “welcome,” and that the
pound’s weakness hasn’t “materially” altered his inflation
outlook. Inflation was at 2.8 percent in March, above the BOE’s
2 percent target.  Guidance Caution  Broadbent also joined the growing number of MPC members who
have downplayed the potential benefits of forward guidance. The
policy is favored by Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney , who
will take over from  Mervyn King  at the BOE in July.  While the measure may have an impact, the current U.K.
yield curve “is so flat, I’m not clear how much it would buy,”
Broadbent said. King said last month he would be a “little bit
cautious” about the policy.  Broadbent made the comments after delivering a speech on
forecasting errors by the MPC in the wake of the financial
crisis at the Mile End Group, a forum hosted by Queen Mary,
University of London.  The MPC will hold its next policy meeting on May 8-9, when
it will have new projections for economic growth and  inflation. (UKRPCJYR) 
Since its last decision, the central bank and the U.K. Treasury
have expanded their Funding for Lending Scheme to boost credit
to smaller companies.  Broadbent said that the FLS extension “was a good idea”
and that the impact of the overall program has been “quite
encouraging” so far. He said it was too early to tell what the
full impact of the plan will be.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  