-- Boeing Dreamliner Grounding Hurts ANA, Japan Airlines Sales
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-05-01T08:21:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/boeing-dreamliner-grounding-hurts-ana-japan-airlines-sales-2-.html
ANA Holdings Inc. (9202) , and  Japan  Airlines
Co., the world’s biggest operators of Boeing Co. 787s, forecast
a bigger impact this year from the plane’s grounding as they
prepare to restart commercial flights with the Dreamliner.  The grounding will cut ANA’s sales by 9 billion yen ($92
million) in the year ending in March, compared with a 7 billion
yen reduction a year earlier. Parking of the Dreamliner fleet
will pare  Japan Air (9201) ’s sales by 4.8 billion yen and operating
profit by 2.6 billion yen this year, Norikazu Saito, a managing
executive officer, told reporters in  Tokyo  yesterday.  Shares of ANA  fell the most in more than three weeks and
Japan Airlines slumped the most in seven months in Tokyo trading
on the announcement. The carriers plan to resume commercial
flights with Boeing’s most advanced jet in June after the
melting of  lithium-ion batteries  on two planes grounded the
fleet worldwide since Jan. 16.  “The earnings forecasts were worse than expected,” said
 Mitsushige Akino , who oversees the equivalent of $515 million in
assets in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. “The
787s are still grounded and so aren’t helping. The bigger impact
going forward will be the outlook for growth and how much weaker
the yen gets, as that will push up costs.”  Akino said he doesn’t hold JAL or ANA shares.  ANA, the biggest airline customer of the Dreamliner,
dropped 1.4 percent to 209 yen as of 3 p.m. close of trading,
while Japan Air fell 4.4 percent to 4,725 yen.  ‘No Small Impact’  “It’s not a small impact,” said Kiyoshi Tonomoto, a
managing director at ANA, referring to the impact on sales from
the grounding of 787. “The grounding is still affecting us this
quarter. We’re going to try and get all the planes back in
service in June.”  JAL, which relisted last year after a trip through
bankruptcy, also fell as the carrier predicted  profit  for this
fiscal year, ending March 31, would fall to 118 billion yen
because of expenses including higher fuel costs and landing
fees, compared with 172 billion yen last year. Last fiscal year,
the 787 grounding cut sales by 1.7 billion yen and operating
profit by 1.3 billion yen.  ANA, the biggest airline customer for the 787, said  net
income  may rise 4 percent this year to 45 billion yen as it aims
to cut 25 billion yen in costs. Sales may increase 9 percent to
1.61 trillion yen, it said in a statement.  66 Dreamliners  ANA has orders for 66 Dreamliners, while JAL has ordered
45. ANA has said it won’t change plans for introducing the 787s
to its fleet as it expects to receive 10 more planes in the year
to March. The carrier has 17 Dreamliners in its fleet.  The airline, which is using the Dreamliners to expand, also
plans to set up a strategic investment unit in  Singapore  as of
June to help boost operations in South-East Asia, it said
yesterday. The company raised 174 billion yen in a share sale
last year to buy planes and acquire stakes in other companies.  ANA Chief Executive Officer Shinichiro Ito and Boeing
Commercial Airplanes President Ray Conner flew ANA’s initial 787
test flight on April 28. A Dreamliner test flight a day earlier
by Ethiopian Airlines Enterprise was the first since the
grounding.  U.S. air safety authorities haven’t determined what caused
the battery faults that sparked a Jan. 7 fire on a JAL 787 in
 Boston  and forced an emergency landing by an ANA jet in Japan
nine days later. The grounding was the longest on a large
commercial aircraft by U.S. and Japanese regulators since jets
were introduced in the 1950s, surpassing the more than a month
ban on Douglas DC-10s.  Repairs  ANA started repairs April 22 at four airports around Japan,
according to Ryosei Nomura, a spokesman. JAL also has started
fixing the batteries, according to Hisanori Iizuka, a spokesman
for the carrier.  The  cost  for replacing the battery will be about $465,000 a
plane in the U.S., the  Federal Aviation Administration  said. The
fix adds about 150 pounds of weight to a 787.  ANA will conduct about 230 test flights for pilots with the
upgraded 787s, Hiroyuki Ito, a senior executive vice president,
said. ANA and JAL also have put in place a system to monitor the
batteries during flights and transmit data to the ground, the
carriers have said.  Boeing’s Conner has said the company will discuss
compensation with individual airlines. It’s too early to decide
whether the manufacturer will use lithium-ion batteries in the
future, he said.  The Dreamliner is the only large commercial jet equipped
with lithium-ion batteries as part of its power system.  GS Yuasa
Corp. (6674)  makes the batteries, which are part of an electrical power
conversion system built by  France ’s  Thales SA. (HO)   United
Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s aerospace unit supplies the system, which
uses enough electricity to power 400 homes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  