-- BOJ Veterans to ECB Pick Demographic Holes in Abe: Japan Credit
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2013-05-01T05:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/boj-veterans-to-ecb-pick-demographic-holes-in-abe-japan-credit.html
Central bank veterans are lining up to
highlight the Achilles’ heel of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
economic revival plan: the world’s fastest aging society.  All five ex-Bank of  Japan  officials in a Bloomberg News
survey said any gains in government bond yields will be
contained over the next two years, with four of them seeing
little chance that the BOJ will achieve its 2 percent inflation
target. People 65 or older accounted for 22.1 percent of Japan’s
total population in 2007-2011, the highest global proportion,
according to Bloomberg Rankings.  Jean-Claude Trichet , the former European Central Bank
president, said on March 20 that demographics are a “big, big,
big problem” that Japan needs to address. Masaaki Shirakawa,
who stepped down as BOJ governor in March, has voiced a similar
view, saying the nation’s slow response to the issue saps its
growth potential and helps perpetuate deflation.  “What creates Japan’s deflation is the aging of society,”
said  Hideo Kumano , the chief economist at Dai-ichi Life Research
Institute Inc. in Tokyo. “Robust economic growth and business
opportunities that provide future income are needed to end
deflation. Even if the central bank raises the flag of
inflation, whether people will follow it is a different
matter.”  Kumano, a 10-year veteran at the BOJ, sees lower Japanese
government bonds yield in the next two years. A separate poll of
16 economists shows the  yield  on the benchmark 10-year note may
rise to 0.93 percent by September 2014, still the lowest among
developed nations, from 0.59 percent today.  Falling Population  Japan has suffered through 15 years of persistent falling
prices, and saw  China  overtake it as the world’s second-biggest
economy in 2010. The nation’s population will probably fall
below 100 million in 2048 for the first time since 1966 from
127.2 million now, based on  estimates  from the National
Institute of Population and Social Security Research.  “The BOJ’s bond buying can’t resolve the shrinking
population or aging of society,” said Takahiro Sekido, a
strategist in  Tokyo  at the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. and
a former BOJ official. “Because Japan’s productivity has only
marginal room to rise, it’s necessary to prevent a decrease in
population or to encourage more participation of female workers
for economic growth.”  Japan’s ratio of women to men in the labor force was 0.74
in 2010, ranking 87th globally and compared with the U.S.’s
0.86, the latest Global Competitiveness  Report  from the World
Economic Forum shows. Abe said on April 19 his  growth strategy 
will try to help women, the least tapped human resource.  Bond Sale  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Central Nippon
Expressway Co. hired banks for a sale of 70 billion yen ($720
million) of five-year bonds this month, according to a statement
yesterday from Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co.,
which is managing the deal with four other firms.  The  Markit iTraxx Japan  index, composed of credit-default
swaps for 50 companies, fell to 83.5 basis points yesterday, the
least since June 2008, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market. A drop in the gauge signals
improving perceptions of creditworthiness. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  A Ministry of Finance auction of 2.2 trillion yen of 10-
year bonds with a 0.6 percent coupon today attracted bids valued
at 3.71 times the amount available, the highest ratio since
December, according to the ministry’s data.  Yen Swings  While the yen touched 99.95 per dollar last month, the
weakest in four years, its depreciation has faltered. It traded
at 97.28 per dollar as of 2:15 p.m. in Tokyo. The currency fell
in April after BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda’s board unveiled a
plan on April 4 to double the monetary base in two years through
increased buying of  government bonds  and stock funds.  The  Topix index  of Japanese shares has climbed 57 percent
since Abe called for “unlimited” monetary stimulus on Nov. 15,
and a 17 percent drop in the yen improved the earnings prospects
for domestic exporters.  A  survey  of 4,000 voters by the BOJ showed on April 1 that
74 percent of respondents expect consumer prices to rise in the
coming 12 months, up from 53 percent in a December poll.  The world’s third-largest economy will probably grow at
least 2.8 percent every quarter through the end of 2013,
according to the median estimate of economists by Bloomberg.
Companies that were short of staff  outnumbered  those that had
enough workers for the first time since September 2008, the
BOJ’s quarterly Tankan survey released April 1 showed.  Influencing Expectations  “If we assume Japan’s economic structure remains
unchanged, the 2 percent inflation target is very difficult to
meet,” said  Junko Nishioka , the chief economist in Tokyo at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and a former official at the
central bank. “But, if the BOJ’s monetary policy -- intended to
influence expectations -- leads to higher asset prices and
stimulates consumption, people can drastically change their
views that the target is unachievable.”  Japan had a baby boom between 1967 to 1973 and this rising
wave of 40- to 46-year-olds are the prime purchasers of equities
and large houses, said David Munro, Chief Executive Officer of
Volatility Research & Trading Ltd., a Singapore-based company
that advises  hedge funds  and companies on risk management,
derivatives and demographics. This impact will only continue
until 2016, he said.  ‘Inflation Threat’  “It makes sense for Kuroda to try to catalyze this group
into non-JGB investments via the inflation threat,” Munro said.
“His problem will be that inflation is highly correlated to the
16- to 28-year-old demographic, which continues to fall in
Japan. So while he may engineer a switch from safety to risk, he
is unlikely to have much impact on inflation other than from the
effect of a weak currency, which will be one-off.”  Shirakawa said in February that the aging society is
sometimes “ misunderstood ” to be hurting Japan’s economy, when
the real issue is that the economy and society haven’t caught up
with the demographic changes. Medical and nursing service
providers may become one of the most promising domestic
employers as companies expand overseas, he said.  “Even if children increase, the overall structure of
Japan’s population won’t change immediately but it will take
years,” said Maiko Noguchi, who worked at the BOJ for five
years before joining Daiwa Securities Co. as a Tokyo-based
senior economist. “What’s important is that businesses move to
stimulate demand in a market with such demographics.”  Foreigner Population  Japan has so far failed to buttress its economy with
immigration. Foreigners accounted for 1.7 percent of the total
population in 2010, the lowest among developed nations,
according to the latest  data  from the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development. In the U.S., 13 percent of the
population are immigrants.  Elderly-care costs will more than double by 2026 to 19.8
trillion yen a year, according to  estimates  from the health
ministry, or almost equivalent to Ireland’ gross domestic
product in dollar terms. Employees in medical, health care and
welfare industries accounted for 12 percent of the workforce in
March, up from 7.9 percent 10 years ago,  figures  from the
statistics bureau show.  In contrast, workers in manufacturing industries made up 17
percent of the total, compared with 19 percent in 2003.  “One of the reason for Japan’s deflation is manufacturers’
shift overseas, and the service industry that should provide
employment has very low productivity,” said Masaaki Kanno, the
chief Japan economist in Tokyo at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and an
ex-central bank official. “Unless the government embarks on
structural reform, Japan’s potential growth rate will fall to
zero as the  labor force  continues to decrease.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  