-- Bombers From Minnesota Tied to Al-Shabaab Case, U.S. Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-05-01T21:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/bombers-from-minnesota-tied-to-al-shabaab-case-u-s-says.html
Three men charged with supporting the
Somali terrorist group al-Shabaab had ties to two suicide
bombers from  Minnesota , the U.S. said.  The three defendants were “closely associated” with Farah
Mohamed Beledi, a suicide bomber from Minnesota who participated
in a 2011  Somalia  attack, prosecutors said in a letter filed
today in federal court in  Brooklyn , New York.  Another bomber from Minnesota, Shirwa Ahmed, took part in a
series of simultaneous 2008 attacks discussed by two of the
defendants in detail during intercepted communications,
prosecutors said in the filing. Beledi and Shirwa Ahmed were
U.S. citizens, according to the document, dated April 5.  The letter, providing supplementary evidentiary material to
the defense, was filed in the case of Ali Yasin Ahmed, Madhi
Hashi and Mohamed Yusuf. The three were arrested in  Africa  by
local authorities in August and taken into U.S. custody in
November, according to prosecutors. They were indicted on
charges of conspiracy, use of high-powered firearms and
providing material support to a foreign terrorist group.  Prosecutors allege that from December 2008 until their
arrest, the men participated in weapons and explosives training
and a suicide-bomber program with associates of al-Shabaab and
were deployed in combat operations to support the group, which
has said it is affiliated with al-Qaeda.  Five Bombings  Shirwa Ahmed participated in one of five simultaneous
suicide bombings in Somalia targeting the Somali and Ethiopian
government and the  United Nations , prosecutors said. Beledi
helped carried out a suicide attack on a government checkpoint
in Somalia in 2011, prosecutors said.  In a follow-up letter dated today, prosecutors said they
intend to introduce expert testimony showing that the 2008
bombings were “executed in a manner consistent with al-
Shabaab’s known tactics and political ideologies.”  While news network  Al Jazeera  initially reported that al-
Shabaab claimed responsibility for the 2008 attacks, the group
later indicated it had not made such a statement, according to
the follow-up letter.  The three defendants were originally from Somalia, an
attorney for Yusuf, Ephraim Savitt, has said. Yusuf, formerly a
bus driver, grew up in  Sweden  and is a Swedish citizen,
according to Savitt.  Savitt didn’t immediately respond to calls for comment
today. A lawyer for Ali Yasin Ahmed, Susan Kellman, declined to
immediately comment. Harry Batchelder Jr., a lawyer for Hashi,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  If convicted of all the charges, the defendants face a
maximum sentence of life in prison, according to prosecutors.  The case is U.S. v. Ahmed, 1:12-cr-00661, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  