-- Boston Bombing Suspect’s Widow Wants His Body Released
-- B y   T e d   B u n k e r
-- 2013-05-01T04:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/boston-bombing-suspect-s-widow-wants-his-body-released.html
The widow of slain  Boston  bombing
suspect Tamerlan Tsarnaev wants the Massachusetts medical
examiner’s office to release his remains to members of his
family, according to her lawyer.  “We will communicate her wishes to the proper
authorities,” Amato DeLuca, an attorney for Katherine Russell,
said yesterday in a statement.  Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, died in a shootout with police April
19, while his brother, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, escaped and was
captured later that day. The younger suspect was wounded and is
in a federal prison hospital outside Boston.  The brothers are suspected of detonating two bombs near the
Boston Marathon finish line on April 15, killing three people
and wounding more than 260. Russell lived in a Cambridge,
Massachusetts, apartment with Tamerlan and their 2-year-old
daughter. She has returned to her parents’ home in North
Kingstown,  Rhode Island .  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  took DNA samples from
the widow on April 29, according to a U.S. official who was
briefed on the probe and asked not to be identified because the
case is open. Investigators have found female DNA on a bomb
fragment, said the official, who cautioned that the genetic
material may have come from a number of sources and that its
discovery doesn’t necessarily mean that more people were
involved in the crime.  Assisting Investigators  “Katherine will continue to meet with  law enforcement , as
she has done for many hours over the past week, and provide as
much assistance to the investigation as she can,” DeLuca, of
Providence, Rhode Island-based DeLuca & Weizenbaum, said in the
statement.  The suspects, ethnic Chechens who came to the U.S. with
their parents as refugees from  Russia ’s Caucasus region, were
motivated by radical Islam they learned mostly over the
Internet, according to lawmakers briefed by federal law-
enforcement officials. Questions still abound over whether they
had any help from people or organizations outside the U.S.  Tamerlan traveled for six months in Russia last year and
visited the republics of Dagestan and Chechnya, where there are
Islamic separatist movements. Russian security services had
earlier asked their U.S. counterparts to check out the older
brother’s activities, and nothing incriminating was found,
according to U.S. officials who asked not to be identified
discussing intelligence matters.  President’s Remarks  A review of how information about Tamerlan Tsarnaev was
handled will “leave no stone unturned,” President  Barack Obama 
said yesterday at a White House news briefing.  “Based on what I’ve seen so far, the FBI performed its
duties,” Obama said. He said tracking terrorists in the U.S.
who “may not be part of any kind of network” is “hard
stuff.”  “One of the dangers that we now face are self-radicalized
individuals who are already here,” Obama said. Both the
Tsarnaev brothers had lived in America for about a decade before
the bombings.  Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, a U.S. citizen, has been charged with
two capital counts, including use of a weapon of mass
destruction. He may get the death penalty if convicted.  The suspects have relatives in the  Washington  area as well
as in  New Jersey  and Toronto. Their parents had moved back to
Russia before this year. Their father, Anzor Tsarnaev, has said
he would return to Boston to meet with his surviving son.  Body’s Release  Tamerlan Tsarnaev’s cause of death won’t be made public by
the medical examiner’s office until the body is released,
according to the  Associated Press . The news service said an
uncle, Ruslan Tsarni, who lives near Washington, said family
members would take possession of the body now that his widow has
agreed to release it, without elaborating.  DeLuca didn’t respond to a message left at his office after
normal business hours. Tsarni didn’t respond to a telephone call
and e-mail seeking comment. Terrel Harris, a spokesman for the
medical examiner, didn’t respond to messages left on his office
voicemail or his mobile phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ted Bunker in Boston at 
 tbunker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  