-- HTC Chief’s Last Chance at Turnaround Rides on One Handset
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-05-02T10:52:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/htc-chief-chou-s-last-chance-at-turnaround-rides-on-one-handset.html
HTC Corp. (2498)  President Peter Chou called
his latest smartphone One. As sales slide and market share
shrinks, that name may represent the number of chances he has
left to turn the company around.  Product delays, marketing failures and management turnover
at the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company pushed net income down 98
percent last quarter to the lowest on record. Once the top-selling smartphone vendor in the U.S., HTC now lags Samsung
Electronics Co. and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which ship 22 times as many
handsets globally combined.  “If HTC fails one more time, then they’ll be under
pressure to replace the CEO,” said Birdy Lu, an analyst at
Daiwa Securities Group in Taipei who cites the appeal of the new
handset as reason for his outperform  rating . “HTC One is their
last chance to come back after the past two years of declines.”  HTC, the  first maker  of phones using software from
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Google Inc., last month reported profit of
NT$85 million ($2.9 million) as its global smartphone market
share fell to less than 4.2 percent from 10.3 percent in the
third quarter of 2011, according to IDC data. During that
period, Samsung and Apple shipments more than doubled, helping
trigger a 40 percent drop in HTC’s stock last year after a 42
percent decline in 2011, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Shipment Delays  The HTC One provides no guarantee of better sales or
profitability, based on company forecasts  published  today. Gross
and operating margin guidance both trail analyst estimates and
are less than for the same period last year, and sales may drop
23 percent, in line with the average of  analyst estimates.   Once a contract manufacturer before promoting its own brand
in 2006, HTC started sliding at the end of 2011, and at least
six senior executives have left in the past two years.  HTC said it “dropped the ball” on products, pointing to
weaknesses in design and engineering. The unveiling of models
One X, S and V in February 2012 was supposed to herald a
reversal of fortune, yet a lag of as many as six months before
shipment, and complaints about  connection problems  and
overheating, saw sales  miss analyst estimates .  Chou told employees in an August e-mail about a lack of
“strategic direction or sense of urgency,” according to a copy
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  ‘Not Consistent’  Sitting at a conference table in HTC’s Taipei office for
his first interview since last month’s profit announcement,
Chou’s strongest reaction to the complaints put to him came from
the suggestion that he stifles innovation.  “If we don’t let people bring out their ideas, then how
could we come up with a breakthrough product like this?” Chou,
56, said, pointing to a metallic-silver  HTC One  on the table.
“Maybe some guys who aren’t happy will make these points.”  Chou said the company was “not consistent” in delivering
products on time and maintained it has addressed the weaknesses,
with delays between release and shipment cut to two months, from
six. He declined to comment on complaints about management or
suggestions he will depart.  Calvin Huang , director of Sapphire Capital Partners in
Taipei, sees the HTC One and its success as a distraction from
endemic problems at the company which remain to be solved.  “I don’t think there’s a lot to justify people buying into
HTC right now,” said Huang, who was short on the stock until
last month when his fund closed its position. “The fundamental
problem of Chou and his management aren’t changed by HTC One
being a good product.”  Consumer Shift  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  posted six quarters of  revenue declines  including
its first loss in at least 13 years during the two years prior
to CEO Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo being replaced in 2010.  Research in
Motion Ltd . had two quarters of falling sales, after a year in
which market value shrunk 75 percent, before co-CEOs  Mike Lazaridis  and  Jim Balsillie  left the BlackBerry maker in January
last year.  Chou pointed to a consumer shift toward “franchise
brands” from the model-by-model strategy HTC employed, as the
major reason for his company’s recent slide.  “The market changed, and it was a little unexpected,”
Chou said. Now, the company will adapt by boosting its
marketing, he said.  HTC’s share of global smartphone shipments has declined for
six quarters, yet Chou said the company he co-founded in 1997
hasn’t peaked and is just starting to build its brand.  New Approach  Its short-lived reign at the top of the U.S. market, when
it had 24 percent in the third quarter of 2011, was the product
of good fortune and a strong relationship with wireless
operators, he said.  “Sometimes we do well in terms of sales and volume, but we
knew that it doesn’t mean we have built a strong consumer brand,
yet,” he said.  As the company’s first franchise product  HTC One is
different , Chou said, because it follows the Apple and Samsung
strategy of releasing a single product to multiple operators
simultaneously in the same market, reducing reliance on an
individual carrier and boosting availability.  Made with a thin aluminum case, HTC One includes an
UltraPixel camera, full high-definition screen and front-facing
speakers. The device was  described  by  New York  Times reviewer
 David Pogue  as “gorgeous” and by Bloomberg’s  Rich Jaroslovsky 
as “state of the art.”  “This is a watershed moment for HTC,” said Chou, who
became president in 2004 and chief executive officer in 2005.
“This is really the first time we are able to enter into that
area of being a top global consumer brand.”  Analyst Upgrades  HTC One will prove critics wrong and marks a turnaround for
the company after learning from the past two years of missteps,
he said.  “People say when a company has a failure, they will never
come back, but the reason they never come back is because they
react so slow,” Chou said. “At HTC, we want to be a company
that acts quickly before we have a big problem.”  Analysts also see an improvement, with at least four
brokerages  upgrading  the stock last month. Goldman Sachs analyst
Robert Yen wrote that “after two years of product errors and
execution issues, we see internal and external changes that
should pull HTC out of its trough.”  For Chou, who’s borne the brunt of criticism for HTC’s
performance, the troubles of the past two years are part of a
longer journey of transforming the company from a manufacturer
to global brand.  “We are the kind of company that has very strong
resilience,” Chou said. “We are not that easy to give up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  