-- California Regulator Eyes Tracking of Fracking Chemicals
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-05-01T03:28:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/california-regulator-eyes-tracking-of-fracking-chemicals.html
California may set up its own system
for tracking chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing by oil and
natural gas producers, rather than depend on the current
voluntary registry, the state’s energy industry regulator said.  California’s formal rule  proposal  may also extend the time
required for prior notification of fracking, said Mark Nechodom,
director of the state Conservation Department. He said the plan
may be released in weeks.  “I really don’t want this to delay any further,” Nechodom
said yesterday in an interview at a public meeting in Monterey.
“We’re having meetings with different stakeholders like the
environmental community, the industry, some of the health-care
providers. Hopefully, we’ll wrap those up in a few weeks and get
our official draft submitted.”  Fracking is a drilling technique that forces millions of
gallons of water, sand and chemicals deep into rock formations
to release trapped oil and gas. A deposit known as the Monterey
Shale may hold 15.4 billion barrels of oil, according to federal
estimates, two-thirds of the nation’s shale-oil reserves.
California is already the  fourth-largest  oil-producing state.  Opponents say the chemicals used in fracking pose health
and environmental risks. The oil industry, through the Western
States Petroleum Association, says hydraulic fracturing has been
used safely for more than 60 years.  Last Meeting  The Conservation Department, which regulates the oil
industry, has been collecting responses to a draft of its plan
since December. The meeting in Monterey was the last scheduled
to review proposed rules for storing and handling fracking
fluids, well monitoring after fracking and preventing water
contamination.  The agency is considering its own alternative to
 FracFocus.org , a voluntary chemical disclosure registry used by
the industry, Nechodom said.  Oil companies  decide what is
disclosed in the registry and what is withheld as  trade secrets .  “We’re going to end up in a lot of discussion about how is
it that we can resolve this tension between the amount of time
it takes to develop our own version of a public disclosure
database versus using something that’s immediately available,”
Nechodom said.  Once the agency formalizes its plans, it will have a year
to make them final, Nechodom said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in Monterey, California at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  