-- Cameron Faces Election Test as UKIP and Labour Seek Gains
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-05-02T08:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/cameron-faces-election-test-as-ukip-and-labour-seek-gains.html
Britons vote in local elections today
in a mid-term test of the popularity of Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition government.  The polls, in 34 English local authorities and one in
Wales, will show how far the opposition  Labour Party  has managed
to win back voters in middle  England  that it lost when the seats
were last contested in 2009, a year before Cameron came to
power. They’ll also demonstrate if the  U.K. Independence Party ,
which campaigns for withdrawal from the European Union, can
capitalize on opinion-poll ratings as high as 17 percent.  Most of the elections are in traditionally Conservative-
voting counties and 1,452 seats are being defended by Cameron’s
party, compared with 481 by his Liberal Democrat coalition
partners and 245 by  Labour . There are still two years to go
before the next national parliamentary vote.  “These are mid-term elections in authorities where the
Conservatives would expect to do well,” said Tony Travers, a
professor at the  London School  of Economics who specializes in
local government. “If UKIP can win some seats and show they
damage the Conservatives’ chances of holding seats in a general
election, that will be significant for Cameron.”  The  Conservatives  trail Labour by about eight points in
national opinion polls, and Cameron has been criticized by his
own lawmakers over policies on gay marriage and immigration that
have seen supporters turning to UKIP. It will be a bad set of
results for the Conservatives if they lose more than 350 seats,
while more than 250 gains would be a good result for Labour,
Travers said. It would be a “really, really good” election for
UKIP if the party wins more than 50 seats, he said.  Local Issues  The Conservatives have sought to focus attention on local
issues in a bid to persuade voters not to register protests in
the elections against the national government, which is
implementing the tightest fiscal squeeze since World War II.  A ComRes Ltd. poll of 1,502 voters for the  Coalition for
Marriage , a group opposed to same-sex unions, found that 26
percent of respondents who voted Conservative in the 2010
general election were less likely to vote for the party now as a
result of moves to legalize gay marriage.  “This is really a contest about who you want to run your
local council,” Cameron said in an interview with  BBC  Radio 4
yesterday, highlighting moves by Tory-run local governments to
freeze council tax, a local property levy. “People should think
about the council tax, think about local services, think about
which team will deliver good services at a low cost and that’s
the Conservatives.”  Protest Votes  The Conservatives have suffered in the polls because they
have been making “difficult” decisions on public spending and
mid-term governments often draw a protest vote, Cameron said.  A drive by the Conservatives to attack UKIP appeared to
have backfired at the weekend when polling showed support for
the party increased. One Tory Cabinet minister, Ken Clarke,
described UKIP as “a collection of clowns and indignant angry
people,” and UKIP leader Nigel Farage said the Conservatives
had been spreading smear stories about his party’s candidates.  “A huge amount of time and money has been spent on
researching every single UKIP candidate standing in these
elections,” Farage told the BBC. “I would speculate that if
the same degree of scrutiny was put to the Labour and
 Conservative Party  they would equally find their own
embarrassments.”  Farage portrays his party as insurgents taking on
millionaires in government who are out of touch with the lives
of ordinary people. The party’s website quotes Cameron’s 2006
description of its members as “fruitcakes, loonies and closet
racists” and says this is what “politicians from other parties
call ordinary, hardworking British people.”  ‘Populist Party’  “UKIP is a populist party, it’s developed this anti-elite
rhetoric which feeds on the suspicion that immigration policy
has raised, particularly in lower-income neighborhoods,” said
Patrick Dunleavy, professor of politics at the LSE. “For every
five UKIP supporters, three are from the Conservatives, one from
Labour and one from the Liberal Democrats; that’s been a pretty
stable pattern over time.”  Labour is looking to win back county councils in
Staffordshire, Nottinghamshire, Derbyshire and Lancashire, which
it lost to the Conservatives in June 2009 when  Gordon Brown  was
at the depths of his unpopularity as prime minister.  The Conservatives are on course to win 31 percent of the
vote in the districts being contested today, according to the
ComRes poll, while Labour has 24 percent support, UKIP 22
percent and the  Liberal Democrats  12 percent. ComRes conducted
its survey from April 24 to April 28. No margin of error was
given.  Recovery Signs  The elections come with the economy showing tentative signs
a recovery that has eluded Cameron since he took office three
years ago.  The economy grew 0.3 percent in the first quarter, avoiding
an unprecedented triple-dip recession, and figures yesterday
showed a manufacturing index rose more than economists forecast
in April.  Bank of England  of England policy maker Ben
Broadbent told reporters in London late yesterday there are now
more reasons to be optimistic about the outlook.  The deepest budget cuts since World War II have weighed on
growth as Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  tries to
erase a deficit that stood at 120.6 billion pounds ($187.7
billion), or 7.8 percent of gross domestic product, in the
fiscal year ended March. The pound has fallen 2.8 percent this
year, the worst performer after the yen among 10 developed-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. The benchmark 10-year gilt yield has dropped 15 basis
points to 1.68 percent.  South Shields  Labour is also defending the House of Commons district of
South Shields in northeast England, which was left vacant after
former Foreign Secretary  David Miliband  quit to become president
of the New York-based International Rescue Committee.  While local elections and special elections, such as that
in South Shields, can throw up useful information, there is a
danger in reading too much into the results, Travers said.  “By-elections and local elections can mean something and
sometimes they mean nothing,” he said. “ Margaret Thatcher  did
very badly in by-elections and local elections, then went on to
win the 1987 election with a massive majority.”  Polls close at 10 p.m. The South Shields result is
scheduled for about 1.30 a.m. tomorrow. Six of the county
councils will declare results overnight. The rest will begin
counting tomorrow morning, with the results due during the day.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  