-- Canadian Oils Weaken as Output Seen Recovering From Spring Slump
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-05-01T18:45:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/canadian-oils-weaken-as-output-seen-recovering-from-spring-slump.html
Canadian grades weakened on the  spot
market  on the first day of June index trading as a temporary
drop in spring production is expected to end by the summer
months.  Maintenance that had shut down production at two  Alberta 
oil-sands upgraders during May is expected to be over by June. A
seasonal dip in Canadian output because of spring thawing is
also ending.  Western Canada Select heavy oil for June delivery weakened
$1.50 to a $19-a-barrel discount to U.S. West Texas Intermediate
oil, according to Calgary oil broker Net Energy Inc. It’s the
widest gap since March 20, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “In WCS trading some of the conditions that caused it to
tighten are reversing now,” said David Bouckhout, commodity
strategist for TD Securities Inc. in Calgary. “A lot of the
maintenance that caused tighter supply in synthetics is
certainly going to reverse now that upgraders are coming back
online.”  June-delivery Syncrude, a synthetic light oil produced from
Canadian bitumen, weakened 90 cents to a $2.10-a-barrel premium
to WTI, Net Energy said. It was Syncrude’s lowest premium since
Feb. 25, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In early April WCS had reached its narrowest discount and
Syncrude had reached its highest premium in six months as
supplies were limited during spring thawing and plant
maintenance.  Upgrader Turnarounds  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  said it’s performing a seven-week
turnaround at the 110,000-barrel-a-day Upgrader 1 in Fort
McMurray in April and May.  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ)  said
it plans to shut down its 110,000-barrel-a-day Horizon upgrader
for 18 days in May.  Canadian  rig counts  also slumped in April amid a seasonal
decline in output from Alberta during the so-called spring
breakup, when drilling and equipment transportation is slowed.  Today was the first day of index trading for June delivery.
The Canadian spot market  index period  begins on the first of the
month and sets the price averages for grades to be delivered to
buyers the following month. The majority of Canadian spot oil
trading occurs during the index period, which ends for June
delivery on April 17 and begins for June delivery on May 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  