-- Canadian Judge Stays Ecuadorean Claim Against Chevron Assets
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-05-01T23:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/canadian-judge-stays-ecuadorean-claim-against-chevron-assets.html
A claim by a group of Ecuadorean
villagers seeking to seize  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s Canadian assets was
stayed by a judge in Ontario at Chevron’s request.  “Chevron does not possess any assets in this jurisdiction
at this time,” Ontario Superior Court Justice  David Brown  said
in a ruling today on the asset-seizure request filed in Toronto
last year by lawyers for 47 Ecuadorean villagers.  A court in the Latin American country in 2011 found Chevron
liable for 28 years of soil and water pollution near oil wells
that ruined the health and livelihoods of Amazon rainforest
dwellers. Since then, Ecuadorean farmers and fishermen have been
trying to collect $19 billion in environmental damages from  San
Ramon , California-based Chevron, the world’s third-largest oil
company.  “The parties should take their fight elsewhere to some
jurisdiction where any ultimate recognition of the Ecuadorian
Judgment will have a practical effect,” Brown said in his
ruling.  The plaintiffs are seeking enforcement outside their home
country because Chevron has no refineries,  oil wells , storage
terminals or other properties in Ecuador. Lawyers for the Amazon
River basin residents asked the Ontario court for a judgment
equivalent to $18.26 billion.  Chevron said it was pleased with the judge’s decision,
according to a statement.  Chevron Fight  The plaintiffs plan to appeal, Alan Lenczner, principal
lawyer in Toronto for the Ecuadorians, said in a statement.  “It cannot be right that a multinational company that
operates entirely through subsidiaries is immune from the
enforcement of a judgment in  Canada , particularly where the
subsidiary is 100 percent-owned and provides some of the
billions of dollars that Chevron pays out in dividends each year
and even more billions in share buybacks,” he said.  Chevron has refused to pay the judgment or entertain the
notion of settlement talks because it maintains the ruling
resulted from bribery and fraud, charges that lawyers and a
spokeswoman for the plaintiffs have rejected.  Brown said the plaintiffs “have no hope of success” in
their claim that Chevron’s Canadian subsidiary should be used to
fulfill the judgment of the Ecuadorean court. In his decision,
the Ontario judge noted Chevron’s determination to fight.  “Chevron is on record saying: ‘We will fight until hell
freezes over and then fight it out on the ice.’ While Ontario
enjoys a bountiful supply of ice for part of each year, Ontario
is not the place for that fight,” Brown wrote in his ruling.
“There is nothing in Ontario to fight over.”  Toxic Soil  The plaintiffs have filed similar asset-seizure motions
against Chevron in courts in Brazil and  Argentina .  The 2011 judgment by a provincial Ecuadorean court blamed
decades of toxic soil and water contamination on Texaco Inc.,
which Chevron acquired in 2001. Texaco was found to have
discharged into the environment saltwater and other byproducts
of oil drilling. Texaco quit the country and its equipment was
taken over by the Ecuadorean state oil company in 1992.  Brown stayed the plaintiffs’ claim in Canada, while
allowing them the right to try again if they obtain new evidence
that Chevron possesses assets in the court’s jurisdiction.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  is the world’s biggest oil company by
market value, followed by PetroChina Company Ltd., according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  