-- Carney Says Policy Guidance Can Affect Interest Rates
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-05-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/carney-says-policy-guidance-can-affect-interest-rates.html
Mark Carney , who becomes  Bank of
England  governor later this year after leaving Canada, said
offering future policy guidance can help central banks respond
to economic shocks or financial imbalances, a view that may be
disputed by his future colleagues.  Guidance can influence longer-term  interest rates  and would
be useful as long as the “bounds” on central-bank authority
are clear, Carney said in a lecture yesterday at the University
of Alberta in Edmonton.  “The scale of shocks now facing major advanced economies
is stretching the conventional flexibility of inflation-
targeting frameworks,” Carney said. “Guidance can crystallize
boundaries on the degree of flexibility.”  Carney, who is leaving the  Bank of Canada  June 1 to take
over the Bank of England a month later, cited his success with
guidance when the Bank of Canada  pledged  in 2009 to hold its
 policy rate  at the lowest possible level for a year. He also
cited the  Federal Reserve ’s decision to implement “state-
contingent” thresholds on unemployment for when interest rates
will rise.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  last month
introduced the first shake-up of the central bank’s remit in
over a decade, formalizing powers that would give Carney greater
flexibility on setting interest rates when he comes to  London  in
July.  Forward guidance has been questioned by current Bank of
England Governor  Mervyn King , who has said it may hurt the
credibility of monetary policy. Asked about possible opposition
to guidance, Carney told reporters at a press conference he
didn’t want to “prejudge” the debate.  Thresholds Discussion  “There is a discussion that we will have,” Carney said.
“The Chancellor in his remit letter has asked for a perspective
on thresholds in August, so we will, the Bank, through the
Monetary Policy Committee, will provide views on that,” Carney
said.  There are skeptics about guidance on the nine-member
Monetary Policy Committee that Carney will lead. “Forward
guidance, particularly if it’s associated with thresholds, in
the British context, does have problems,” policy maker  Martin Weale  said in an April 18 interview.  Adam Posen , a former member of the Bank of England’s rate-
setting Monetary Policy Committee, said at a Bloomberg Economic
Summit panel in  Washington  that the discussion about guidance is
“much fuss about nothing.”  “It’s more what central banks do than what they say,”
said Posen, who is now president of the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in Washington.  Too Far  In the lecture, Carney said there is risk that flexibility
could be taken too far by central banks, meaning there’s a need
to develop clear policy frameworks that can “play a critical
role in building and preserving credibility.”  Carney also said there are a number of circumstances when
it would be desirable to bring  inflation  back to target over a
longer-than-normal horizon, such as when central banks need to
promote adjustments to financial excesses or credit crunches.  “ Monetary policy  tactics, particularly communications, can
play an important role in anchoring inflation expectations and
retaining the credibility necessary for monetary policy to be
effective,” he said.  “Guidance and state-contingent thresholds are examples of
mechanisms to define the boundaries of flexibility.”  One scenario may be the need to tolerate inflation above
target for a longer horizon in order to help an economy
suffering from deleveraging or prolonged periods of weakness
that is undermining productivity, he said. Monetary policy can
also be used to “lean” against a build-up of excessive debt in
an economy, Carney said.  Cyprus Bailout  Asked about the European Union’s bailout of Cyprus, which
involved taxing deposits at Cypriot banks, Carney told reporters
it’s important “to know in advance what the creditor hierarchy
is.”  “The creditor hierarchy changed from one weekend to the
next,” Carney said. “It wouldn’t appear, at least on that
standard, that that constituted best practice.”  The text of the lecture didn’t mention the outlook for
 Canada ’s economy or monetary policy. After the lecture, Carney
told reporters that there may be more momentum in the economy
than the bank had earlier thought.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Edmonton at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  