-- CBS Profit Beats Estimates on Super Bowl, Streaming Gains
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-05-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/cbs-profit-rises-on-gains-from-super-bowl-streaming.html
CBS Corp. (CBS) , owner of the most-watched
U.S. television network, reported first-quarter profit that beat
estimates as Super Bowl ads, fees from cable systems and
streaming deals with  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  boosted revenue.  Net income from continuing operations rose 18 percent to
$463 million, or 73 cents a share, from $394 million, or 59
cents, a year ago, New York-based CBS said yesterday in a
 statement . Analysts had forecast 68 cents, the average of 27
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  CBS and other broadcasters are collecting more fees from
pay-TV systems that carry their signals, and taking a share of
the payments received by network affiliates. So-called
retransmission revenue rose 62 percent in the quarter, CBS said.
The network also sold “The Good Wife” reruns to Amazon.com,
Hulu and the Hallmark Channel. Advertising rose 8 percent,
driven by the Super Bowl.  “Their advertising revenue growth was well above what we
have seen so far this quarter from other media companies,” said
Paul Sweeney, director of North American Research at Bloomberg
Industries. He called it a “solid beat for CBS this quarter.”  Sales rose 6.4 percent to $4.04 billion, beating the $4.02
billion average of 24 analysts’ estimates. Streaming revenue
grew by 19 percent.  CBS, controlled by Chairman Sumner Redstone, rose 1.1
percent to $46.90 in extended trading yesterday after the
results. The shares advanced 1.4 percent to $46.40 at the close
in New York and have climbed 22 percent this year, compared with
an 11 percent gain for the S&P 500 Index.  Super Bowl  CBS avoided losing sales by staying on the air during a
power outage at the Feb. 3 Super Bowl, the most-watched U.S. TV
event. By covering the interruption commercial-free, the network
was able to meet its commitments and broadcast ads when the game
resumed. The contest, which rotates among networks each year,
helped lift CBS’s average audience to 12 million a night for the
season ending this month, based on Nielsen data.  Affiliate and subscription fees rose 14 percent, according
to the company. That includes retransmission fees from  Time
Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , Comcast Corp. and other pay-TV operators, and
payments passed through from affiliates.  Retransmission and affiliate payments were estimated to
almost double to $102 million for the quarter, Michael Morris,
an analyst at Davenport & Co., wrote in an April 26 research
report.  Aereo, REIT  To protect those fees, CBS would pull its signals from the
air if Aereo Inc. is allowed to take its broadcasts and re-sell
the programming over the Internet, Chief Executive Officer
Leslie Moonves said yesterday at a conference in Los Angeles.  The company announced plans in January to convert its
outdoor advertising unit into a real estate investment trust and
seek a buyer for the European and Asian businesses. The
conversion could be finished in the 2014 tax year, CBS said at
the time.  The European and Asian businesses were classified as
discontinued operations as of Dec. 31, 2012.  CBS is making more of its TV shows available for streaming
on Internet services including Amazon,  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and Hulu
LLC. A year ago, CBS began its initial streaming agreement with
Netflix and Hulu Plus for CW programs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  