-- Cedar Fair Coaster Riders Buy on Credit in Disney Shadow
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-05-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/cedar-fair-coaster-riders-buy-on-credit-in-disney-shadow.html
After years of reining in spending,
Aney Salas was ready to spring a bit for her kids to have some
fun. So they headed to Knott’s Berry Farm, a 73-year-old
amusement park near Los Angeles. The draw, other than nine
terrifying roller coasters: annual passes that cost $72 each,
payable in six monthly installments of $12.  “A payment plan really helps,” the 31-year-old mother of
four said while shepherding her flock out of the car. “It makes
it really affordable.”  Matthew Ouimet, chairman and chief executive officer of
 Cedar Fair LP (FUN) , which owns 16 amusement and water parks including
Knott’s, expects attendance and sales at the company to exceed
last year’s records in part due to pricing initiatives such as
the payment plan introduced in February 2012.  Knott’s, operating in the shadow of Disneyland just six
miles away, also offers a  discount  of as much as 38 percent off
the $60 single-day ticket to people who buy in advance online.
Customers who hate waiting can pay $35 extra to cut to the front
on 12 popular rides such as Montezooma’s Revenge, which sends
riders “zooming” forward and backward through a seven-story
loop.  “We’re seeing a barbell economy,” Ouimet said over the
screams of roller-coaster riders in the park. Some consumers are
willing to pay extra for perks such as cutting lines, while
others require “a more benefit-oriented” pitch.  Canada’s Wonderland  Even on vacation, some travelers remain cost-conscious.
Visits to  Orlando ,  Florida , the theme-park capital of the U.S.,
reached a record 56.8 million last year, according to the local
tourism  authority . But  air travel  to Orlando was down, according
to local  airport data , suggesting growth came from travelers
piling into cars instead of paying for plane tickets.  Cedar Fair, based in Sandusky,  Ohio , owns Kings Island in
Cincinnati,  Canada ’s Wonderland in Toronto and Dorney Park in
Allentown,  Pennsylvania . Two-thirds of guests live within 100
miles of the parks they visit, making them more likely to
purchase season passes, Ouimet said.  Sales of passes climbed 10 percent last year with the
introduction of the payment plan, Ouimet said. Customers using
passes accounted for almost 40 percent of the 23 million visits
to Cedar Fair parks last year, up from one-third the year
before. The loyalists become salespeople, he said, convincing
friends and family to buy passes, too. The company raised the
price by 7.4 percent in January.  Anaheim Neighbor  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  raised the price of its premium annual pass
to Disneyland and  California  Adventure in Anaheim by 30 percent
last year, to $649. The increase follows a $1.1 billion
remodeling of California Adventure that included the
introduction of the Cars Land attraction.  “They put a significant investment in to change the
character of that park,” said  Matthew Earnest , a principal at
theme-park consultant Entertainment & Culture Advisors in
 Beverly Hills , California. “That helps justify the higher
price.”  Attendance at Disney’s domestic parks rose 3 percent in the
year ended Sept. 29, the company said in its annual report.
Operating income climbed 22 percent to $1.9 billion, the company
said. Its shares are up 26 percent this year. Disney also sells
 Southern California  residents  passes  good for less than half the
days in a year for $269.  At Cedar Fair, net income rose 43 percent in 2012 to $101
million, or $1.81 a share, on a 3.9 percent gain in revenue to
$1.07 billion. Profit was still below the $161 million peak in
2005. Shares of Cedar Fair tripled from 2010 to 2012 and have
also gained 26 percent this year.  Magic Mountain  Southern California has long supported a variety of theme
parks, from premium-priced Disneyland and its elaborate
attractions to  Universal Studios , Six Flags Magic Mountain and
Knott’s. All offer season passes and payment options.  Sales at  Six Flags Entertainment Corp. (SIX) , based in  Grand
Prairie ,  Texas , rose 5.6 percent to $1.07 billion last year as
attendance increased 6 percent. Its shares have risen 19 percent
this year.  SeaWorld Entertainment Inc. (SEAS) , controlled by  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) , sold stock in an April 19 initial public offering at
the top of its proposed range. Shares of the Orlando-based
company are up 24 percent since then.  Ouimet, a 17-year Disney veteran who led the company’s
Anaheim resort before departing in 2006, has been adding
attractions on a more limited budget since he joined Cedar Fair
two years ago.  Wilderness Scrambler  He’s dusting off an old ride called the Wilderness
Scrambler that was in storage and reintroducing it as part of a
remodeling of Knott’s family-oriented Boardwalk area opening May
25. He’s also restoring old models of California’s Spanish
missions, Catholic outposts dating from 1760s to 1830s, that
were a feature of Knott’s in the 1950s, for display in the
park’s Western-themed Ghost Town.  Cedar Fair plans to spend about $100 million on capital
improvements this year, the company said. That includes the
GateKeeper, a winged roller coaster opening May 11 at its Cedar
Point park in Sandusky.  The ride got its name because it roars over the front gate
where admission booths once stood. The gates are less crowded
these days since more visitors are buying in advance or flashing
season passes to get in, Ouimet said. That doesn’t mean they
don’t stop to look at the cars roaring down the track overhead.  “Coasters,” he said, “are easy to market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  