-- CEO-Worker Pay Ratio, BOE Policy, Solvency II Costs: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-05-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/ceo-worker-pay-ratio-boe-policy-solvency-ii-costs-compliance.html
Across the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
of companies, the  average multiple  of CEO compensation to that
of rank-and-file workers is 204, up 20 percent since 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The numbers are based
on industry-specific estimates for worker compensation.  Almost three years after Congress ordered public companies
to reveal actual CEO-to-worker pay ratios under the Dodd-Frank
law, the numbers remain unknown. As the  Occupy  Wall Street
movement and 2012 election made  income inequality  a social
flashpoint, mandatory disclosure of the ratios remained bottled
up at the Securities and Exchange  Commission , which hasn’t yet
drawn up the rules to implement it. Some of America’s biggest
companies are lobbying against the requirement.  The leading opponent of mandatory pay-ratio disclosure is a
Washington-based non-profit called the HR Policy Association,
which represents top human resources executives at about 335
large corporations.  Pay-ratio supporters, led by activist investors and trade
unions including the  AFL-CIO  and the $52.4 billion United Auto
Workers Retiree Medical Benefits Trust, say mandatory disclosure
would help inform shareholders on advisory say-on-pay votes at
companies’ annual meetings.  For more, click here.  Separately, James Cotton, a retired  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  lawyer, wrote a 1997 article in the Northern
Illinois Law Review arguing public U.S. firms should disclose
the ratio of their chief executives’ pay to their workers.  Bloomberg’s Elliot Blair Smith reported on Bloomberg
Television.  For the video, click here.  Compliance Policy  Solvency II Rules Seen as Costing U.K. Insurers $310 Million  European rules aimed at making insurers safer may cost the
industry as much as 200 million pounds ($310 million) a year in
the U.K., said  Andrew Bailey , the country’s top banking and
insurance supervisor.  The delayed rules, known as Solvency II, may see insurance
premiums increase by 0.1 percent to cover the cost of
compliance, Bailey, chief executive officer of the Prudential
Regulation Authority, said in a letter to  Andrew Tyrie , chairman
of the U.K.’s  Treasury Select Committee , dated April 19 and
released by Tyrie yesterday.  Solvency II, intended to harmonize the way insurers
allocate capital against the risks they take across the 27-
member European Union, was originally scheduled to come into
force in 2013. The regulations may not be implemented before
2016, Gabriel Bernardino, chairman of the  European Insurance and
Occupational Pensions Authority , has said.  Osborne Says BOE Financial Policy Remit Must Support Growth  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  told the  Bank of
England  that its financial-stability policies should take into
account the weakness of the economy and refrain from curbing the
recovery.  Setting the Financial Policy Committee’s first remit,
Osborne said the central bank must acknowledge the economic
cycle when setting policy. He also said there is a need for
“clear” communications to win the confidence of financial
markets and called for a list of risks by the end of the year.  Osborne shut the previous financial regulator, and gave
most of its powers to the BOE to overhaul regulation which,
Osborne said, failed in part because the structure wasn’t
adequate. Under the new Financial Services Act, he has the power
to set the FPC’s objectives and how it should operate in order
to support the government’s economic policies.  The remit “‘recognizes that there may be short-term trade
offs between the committee’s second objective of contributing
toward sustaining economic growth and its primary objective of
addressing sources of systemic risk, which may vary at different
points in the economic and credit cycle,” Osborne said. “It is
particularly important at this stage of the cycle that the
committee takes into account, and gives due weight to, the
impact of its action on the near-term economic recovery.”  For more, click here.  Germany Seeks Decentralized Euro-Area Bank-Failure Mechanism  Germany is urging the European Union to abandon plans for a
powerful central authority to handle bank failures, warning the
measure would be undermined by a lack of U.K. participation and
constitutional complications.  The German government is seeking to build support behind an
alternative blueprint for a “network of national resolution
authorities” and backstop funds to deal with crisis-hit banks
in the euro area, according to a proposal obtained by  Bloomberg
News . This “decentralized” system would avoid “bureaucratic
cost and complexity,” according to the paper, dated March 13.  A central authority that is ultimately backed by the
taxpayer “would imply significant legal risk both in terms of
European law and constitutional law,” according to the
document. “There is not much room left for further
centralization” under the bloc’s current treaties, it says.  Germany’s policy pits it against the  European Central Bank ,
European Commission, and euro-area governments including France,
which have called for rapid steps to push crisis intervention at
failing banks to the EU level, in a bid to help nations repair
their ravaged public finances and restore confidence in lenders.  A spokesman for the  German Finance Ministry  declined to
comment directly on the document, while saying that it’s healthy
to have a debate about the resolution plan.  ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  called last week for
swift progress to put in place a “strong authority” with “a
privately funded European resolution fund at its disposal,” as
well as access to taxpayer money as a last resort.  Compliance Action  Twitter Attack Prompts U.S. CFTC to Speed Automated Trading Rule  The top U.S. derivatives regulator yesterday promised to
publish in the coming months ideas for boosting oversight of
automated and high-frequency trading after a market-moving hack
of the Associated Press Twitter feed.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman Gary Gensler
made the remarks at a meeting in Washington about technology.
The April 23 hack placed a false report about an attack on the
White House on the news service’s Twitter feed. Traders
responded by wiping out $136 billion from the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index before it recovered within minutes.  The CFTC’s so-called concept release would seek comment in
May and June on new testing, supervision and risk controls for
automated trading, Gensler said. A concept release is an early
regulatory step to seek comments on if or how authorities might
propose eventual rules.  CFTC Commissioner Bart Chilton has said the agency is
looking into the trading activity of 28 futures contracts in the
five minutes before and after the fake report.  Courts  FCIB Accounts Under Scrutiny by IRS for Possible Tax Crimes  A U.S. judge authorized the Internal Revenue Service to
seek information about possible  tax evasion  through offshore
accounts at  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce ’s FirstCaribbean
International Bank.  The IRS may seek information on FCIB’s U.S. customers by
serving a so-called John Doe summons on  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , which
holds the bank’s U.S. correspondent account, U.S. District Judge
Thelton Henderson ruled April 29 in federal court in  San
Francisco .  At least 129 taxpayers voluntarily disclosed to the IRS
that they held undeclared accounts at FCIB, based in Barbados,
according to an affidavit by IRS Revenue Agent Cheryl Kiger.  Ancel Martinez, a spokesman for San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo, the fourth-largest U.S. bank by assets, had no immediate
comment on the ruling. Mary Lou Frazer, a spokeswoman for
Toronto-based CIBC, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail
message seeking comment.  The case is In the Matter of the Tax Liabilities of  John
Does , 13-cv-01938, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  HSBC Liability for Madoff Losses Still an Issue Four Years On  Four years after  Bernard Madoff  pleaded guilty to running
the largest  Ponzi scheme  in history, investors are still trying
to get their money back.  Thema International Fund Plc is seeking about 1 billion
euros ($1.3 billion) from  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  at a 14-week trial
expected to start at the  High Court  in Dublin yesterday. The
case is one of dozens to focus on banks’ role as “custodians”
to investment funds that deposited money with Madoff.  HSBC, Europe’s largest bank, faces more than 50 complaints
in Ireland over claims it failed to discover Madoff’s
activities. The fraud hurt many investment vehicles like Dublin-
based Thema, funds known as UCITS that target retail investors.
At least three UCITS, which stands for Undertakings Collective
Investment in Transferable Securities, were liquidated because
of Madoff-related losses.  The banks say that as a custodian, their only
responsibilities are to manage deposits and payments to
shareholders.  “HSBC believes it has good defences to the claims made
against it and will vigorously defend itself,” the London-based
bank said in an e-mailed statement.  Alberto Benbassat, one of the five directors at Thema, said
he was “pleased” the case was going to trial. William Fry, the
 law firm  representing Thema, wouldn’t comment on client matters,
a spokeswoman said.  Madoff, who turned 75 April 29, pleaded guilty in 2009 to
orchestrating what prosecutors called the biggest Ponzi scheme
in history, using $65 billion in real and artificial assets. He
is serving a 150-year sentence in U.S. federal prison.  For more, click here.  Interviews/Panels  Gensler Sees ‘Paradigm Shift’ in Regulating Derivatives  U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman  Gary
Gensler  talked about regulatory oversight of derivative trades
and securing markets against cyber attacks.  He spoke with Bloomberg’s  Peter Cook  at the Bloomberg Link
Washington Summit.  For the video, click here.  CFTC Panel Meets on Swap Data Reporting  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s technology
advisory committee conducted a public meeting in Washington to
review issues related to swap data reporting.  For the audio, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 