-- Charles Giancarlo’s ItsOn to Offer Customizable Wireless Plans
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-05-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/charles-giancarlo-s-itson-to-offer-customizable-wireless-plans.html
Charles Giancarlo,  Cisco Systems
Inc. (CSCO) ’s former chief of product development, will unveil this
month a wireless service that will seek to compete with bigger
carriers by offering customized plans.  ItsOn Inc. , a mobile-technology venture based in  Redwood
City ,  California , plans to offer mobile plans with options that
can be tailored to user needs, Giancarlo said. Using a
smartphone application, consumers will be able to change
services at any time and share minutes, text and data allowances
with others. Customers will have to buy a mobile device from
ItsOn and pay full price, rather than a reduced, subsidized
amount.  The program, which will be marketed under a different
brand, will challenge established no-contract service providers
such as  Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP) , MetroPCS
Communications Inc., and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ’s Virgin Mobile and
Boost brands. Prepaid plans  make up  about a quarter of the U.S.
wireless market, according to Washington-based New Millennium
Research. Subscribers spent $178.4 billion on mobile services
last year,  estimates  CTIA-The Wireless Association.  “It just provides a huge amount of flexibility,” said
Giancarlo, an individual investor and co-founder of ItsOn. “It
allows for cheaper plans as well as integrated, richer plans for
families. The whole idea of prepaid and postpaid goes away, and
it becomes pay-as-you-go.”  While ItsOn already offers its plan-customization software
to carriers and handset makers worldwide, the new initiative is
the company’s first foray into selling services directly to
mobile customers. The name of the service will be announced this
month, Giancarlo said.  Smartphone Shift  ItsOn holds more than 50 patents and pending applications.
By offering its own wireless service, ItsOn could push other
carriers to adopt more customizable plans, according to Ira Brodsky, an analyst at Datacomm Research Co. in Chesterfield,
 Montana .  “The industry is changing very dramatically,” Brodsky
said in an interview. “With the shift to smartphones and more
devices, these kind of services let you buy wireless the way you
buy gas and food. You buy just what you need.”  Including $15.5 million in  funding  from Andreessen
Horowitz, SV Angel and other investors, ItsOn has raised about
$30 million to date, according to Chief Executive Officer Greg Raleigh.  “This is a multibillion-dollar market,” John O’Farrell, a
general partner at venture-capital firm Andreessen Horowitz,
said in an interview. “The market over time is every carrier
and every consumer that has a smartphone. It’s a truly
different, exciting company.”  Gadget Proliferation  The startup, which has more than 30 employees, is hoping to
benefit from consumers seeking affordable plans for a growing
array of wireless gadgets. More than  30 percent  of U.S. users
own a tablet, 26 percent have an e-reader and 45 percent own a
smartphone, according to Pew Internet & American Life Project.  Signing up for ItsOn’s services will only take a few
minutes after it’s introduced, Raleigh said. New devices can be
easily added and allocated voice minutes, texts and data.
Parents can decide how many messages their child can send out,
and put a curfew on use of phone applications or calls during
certain hours -- such as during school or at night, he said.  “We call it the un-plan,” Raleigh said in an interview.
“We’ll be the least-expensive service in the country.” A
family of three will pay less than 50 percent of what they spend
on wireless service today, he estimated.  Giancarlo said he and Raleigh began discussing the project
four years ago. The two met when Giancarlo was at Cisco, which
 bought  Raleigh’s wireless-networking startup, Clarity Wireless
Corp., in 1998.  Before leaving Cisco six years ago, Giancarlo was the
networking-equipment maker’s executive vice president and chief
development officer. Giancarlo is also a managing director at
private-equity firm Silver Lake Management LLC, which isn’t an
investor in ItsOn.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , is an investor
in Andreessen Horowitz.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  