-- Chelsea Would Give Mourinho $155 Million for Players: Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-05-01T10:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/chelsea-would-give-mourinho-155-million-for-players-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the web.  Mourinho Money  Chelsea will give  Jose Mourinho  about 100 million pounds
($155 million) to spend on new players should the Real Madrid
coach return to the Blues,  the Daily Mirror said .  Mourinho is expected to quit Real after the season, and
wants to return to England, the newspaper said. The Portuguese
coach will get 50 million pounds to spend on Atletico Madrid
striker Radamel Falcao as well as 20 million pounds for Bayer
Leverkusen midfielder Andre Schuerrle, the Mirror said.  Everton’s Marouane Fellaini could join Chelsea for more
than 20 million pounds, the newspaper said.  Real exited the Champions League in the semifinals last
night. A 2-0 home win over Borussia Dortmund wasn’t enough to
overturn a 4-1 defeat in the first leg.  Benteke Value  Aston Villa  will look to give striker Christian Benteke a
raise from his current 20,000 pound weekly pay after the Belgian
impressed with 22 goals in his first Premier League season, the
Daily Telegraph said.  The 22-year-old may be targeted by Manchester City, Inter
Milan and Borussia Dortmund, all of which have had scouts watch
him this season, the newspaper said.  Villa manager Paul Lambert values Benteke at 25 million
pounds, the newspaper said.  PSG Plans  Paris Saint-Germain has given up on trying to sign Arsenal
manager  Arsene Wenger  or Real Madrid’s Jose Mourinho for next
season,  the Sun said.  It will try to bring in Malaga’s Manuel Pellegrini or Bayern Munich’s Jupp Heynckes to replace  Carlo Ancelotti .  Ancelotti is expected to join Real to replace Mourinho, and
PSG was hoping to lure the Gunners’ manager, who still has a
year on his contract, the Sun said.  Rooney Worries  Wayne Rooney  will open contract extension talks with
Manchester United in the next few weeks, but is concerned about
where he’ll play, according to the Daily Mail.  Robin van Persie 
has replaced him as the main striker, and manager  Alex Ferguson 
is targeting Dortmund striker  Robert Lewandowski  and Atletico
Madrid’s Radamel Falcao, the Mail said .   Rooney, who makes 250,000 pounds a week, has been used in
midfield several times this year.  Taarabt Cost  Queens Park Rangers are valuing forward Adel Taarabt at 15
million pounds in an attempt to keep the player despite
relegation from the Premier League,  the Sun said .  Coach  Harry Redknapp  wants to keep the Moroccan even as the
club tries to trim its wage costs, the newspaper said. QPR
turned down a 12 million-pound offer for him in the January
transfer window, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  