-- Chesapeake Swings to Profit as Demand Spike Boost Prices
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2013-05-01T20:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/chesapeake-swings-to-profit-as-demand-spike-boost-prices.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the U.S.
natural gas producer that replaced its top executive last month
amid conflict-of-interest questions, reported profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as fuel prices rallied on increased demand.  First-quarter net income was $58 million, or 2 cents a
share, compared with a loss of $28 million, or 11 cents, a year
earlier, the Oklahoma City-based company said in a statement
today. Excluding non-cash hedging losses and employee severance
expenses, per-share profit was 5 cents more than the average of
28 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company cut costs as production rose to a first-quarter
record and Texas well output prompted it to boost its 2013 oil
target by 1 million barrels. Chesapeake, which pumped enough gas
last year to supply one-fourth of U.S. households, replaced
Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  on April 1 after an
investor revolt and boardroom overhaul failed to resurrect the
languishing stock.  “The new board is imposing a good amount of spending
discipline and the company has turned a corner,”  Mark Hanson ,
an analyst at  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago , said in a phone
interview today. “Chesapeake is going the right way and their
core properties continue to deliver” production growth.  Sales increased by 42 percent to $3.42 billion in the
quarter. Chief Financial Officer Domenic Dell’Osso estimated a
2013 cash flow shortfall of $3.5 billion during a conference
call with analysts today. He reiterated the company’s target of
$4 billion to $7 billion in asset sales.  Gas Prices  Gas futures in  New York  jumped 39 percent during the
quarter to average $3.48 per million British thermal units as
cold weather in some of the biggest U.S. cities spurred demand
for the furnace fuel.  Even as Chesapeake has emphasized the search for oil and
so-called natural gas liquids such as propane, gas accounted for
76 percent of the company’s first-quarter output. Prices touched
a 20-month high of $4.43 on April 18, as a glut from North
American shale formations that caused prices to decline to a
decade-low in 2012 began to ease.  Crude production from Chesapeake’s wells jumped 55 percent
to 103,000 barrels a day, according to today’s statement.
Liquids output rose by 13 percent and gas increased by 0.7
percent, the company said. Production costs fell 18 percent to
the equivalent of 86 cents per thousand cubic feet of gas.  Cash Squeeze  Chesapeake declined 1.8 percent to $19.19 at the close in
New York as a slump in  commodities markets  dragged energy stocks
lower. The shares have increased 15 percent this year, more than
double the gain for the  Standard and Poor’s 500 Energy Index  of
43 companies.  The cost to protect Chesapeake’s debt from default for five
years fell to the lowest since August 2011. Credit-default swaps
declined 10 basis points to 289 basis points as of 12:03 p.m. in
New York, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  The swaps, which typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates, pay the buyer face value
if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the amount of
the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Chesapeake has outspent  cash flow  for most of the past two
decades as it amassed prospective gas and oil fields faster than
it could afford to drill wells. Chesapeake is seeking to raise
cash from asset sales to cover its funding gap and reduce debt.
The company signed agreements last year to sell $12 billion in
properties, short of McClendon’s original target.  Selling Pipes  In a separate statement today,  SemGroup Corp. (SEMG)  said it has
agreed to pay Chesapeake $300 million in cash for Mid-America
Midstream Gas Services, a subsidiary that owns pipelines and
processing plants in the Mississippi Lime formation.  McClendon, 53, was ousted as chairman in 2012 and
ultimately lost the CEO’s post after investors including  Carl Icahn  and Southeastern Asset Management Inc.’s O. Mason Hawkins
objected to management missteps and stagnating performance. A
board inquiry into McClendon’s use of personal stakes in
thousands of company-owned wells to obtain more than $800
million in private loans cleared him of any intentional
wrongdoing in February.  “The biggest thing they got going for them is they got
rid” of McClendon, Ben Dickey, chief investment officer at
BSG&L Financial Services LLC in Houston, said in an interview
before the results were announced. “If  gas prices  continue
coming back, that’ll be good for them.”  New CEO  McClendon was replaced as CEO of the company he co-founded
almost a quarter century ago by one of his longest-serving
lieutenants, Chief Operating Officer Steven Dixon. Dixon assumed
the title of acting CEO while the company searches for someone
to fill the role permanently, Chesapeake said in a March 29
statement.  “We’re beginning to see the benefits of our operational
strategy shift from identifying and capturing new assets to
developing our extensive, existing assets as we enter a new era
of shareholder-value realization,” Dixon said during the call
today. “As a result, we’re generating more efficient production
growth, stronger cash flow and better returns on capital.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  