-- China Leads $4.2 Trillion of Asia-Pacific Property Investments
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-05-01T00:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/china-leads-4-2-trillion-of-asia-pacific-property-investments.html
China  led a jump in investment in
Asia-Pacific commercial properties to $4.2 trillion in 2012 as
economic growth drove up capital values and supported new
construction, according to London-based broker DTZ.  Investors bought $300 billion of commercial property across
the Asia-Pacific region, an 8 percent increase from 2011 in U.S.
dollar terms, a report by DTZ showed today. China overtook Japan
to become the region’s largest market with $1.5 trillion of
investments, up from $1.3 trillion in 2011, DTZ said.  Tenant  demand  for high-quality offices in Beijing led to a
23 percent increase in rents in 2012, while in  Shanghai , rising
demand from global companies pushed some companies to outer
areas in search of lower rents, according to a January report by
broker Knight Frank LLP. China, India and Indonesia are seeing
the strongest momentum in retail consumer, developer and
investor activity in the world, broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL) ’s
 retail real estate momentum index  for 2012 showed.  “Growth in Asia Pacific-invested stock was powered by the
 emerging markets  on the back of strong economic fundamentals,”
Kate Barrow, head of Asia-Pacific forecasting at DTZ, wrote in
the report. “The Asia-Pacific region may offer the best returns
but sourcing prime product can be an issue, with scarcity of
prime assets a prevailing theme across the region.”  The value of investments in Japan rose 1 percent in 2012
from the previous year in yen terms, following four years of
declines, DTZ said. Investments climbed 3 percent in  Australia ,
moderating from 7 percent growth a year earlier in local dollar
terms, according to the report.  Europe had an increase of 3 percent, and in  North America ,
growth in invested stock declined 0.5 percent on very limited
development and falling values, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  