-- China Manufacturing Gauge Signals Slowdown Persisting: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-01T09:06:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/china-manufacturing-expands-at-weaker-pace-after-economy-slows.html
China ’s manufacturing expanded at a
weaker pace in April in a sign that the slowdown in the world’s
second-largest economy is extending into the second quarter.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index was at 50.6, the National
Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said today in Beijing. That compared with the 50.7
 median forecast  of 31 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey and a
March reading of 50.9. Readings above 50 signal expansion.  Australian stocks fell and copper declined as the report
increased concern that demand from China for commodities will
slow. The figures add to data showing growth in industrial
companies’  profits  decelerated in March and Aluminum Corp. of
China Ltd., the nation’s biggest producer of the lightweight
metal, having a sixth straight quarterly loss.  “The debate about growth -- and just how much we should
worry about this weak recovery -- is likely to build in
Beijing,” said Stephen Green, head of Greater China research at
Standard Chartered Plc in Hong Kong. Today’s number is
“disappointing,” he said in an e-mail.  A private survey of China manufacturing by HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics had a preliminary reading of 50.5 for
April, down from the final level of 51.6 for March, a report
showed last month. The final figure will be released tomorrow.  Signs of slowing expansion are spreading across Asia.
Japanese and South Korean industrial output was less than
estimates in March and  Taiwan ’s first-quarter growth was half
the forecast pace as weakness in global demand limits recoveries
in Asian economies, reports showed yesterday.  Orders Slow  A gauge of new orders in China manufacturing fell to 51.7
from 52.3 in March, while an index of  new export orders  dropped
to 48.6 from 50.9 and the reading on inventories of finished
goods declined to 47.7 from 50.2, according to today’s data,
based on a survey of businesses.  Chinese stocks fell to a four-month low before the three-
day Labor Day holiday that ends today on concern that a slowdown
will drag on earnings. Growth risks include weakness in export
demand, property-market overheating, a surge in so-called shadow
banking and the damping of consumption by President Xi Jinping’s
campaign to rein in official spending.  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  is down 11 percent
from this year’s Feb. 6 high. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of
stocks fell 0.5 percent at 5:42 p.m. in  Tokyo .  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped 0.5 percent at the
close in Sydney, while copper for delivery in three months
declined as much as 1.7 percent to $6,936.50 a metric ton on the
London Metal Exchange and traded at $6,958.50 by 4:45 p.m. in
 Singapore .  Sustain Recovery  The decline in April’s index shows that the “foundation of
an economic stabilization is still not solid,”  Zhang Liqun , a
researcher with the Development Research Center, an agency
advising China’s cabinet, said in a statement. “The economic
growth rate may fall slightly in the future, and China needs to
stabilize domestic demand to make the economic recovery more
sustainable.”  The world’s second-biggest economy  expanded  7.7 percent in
the first quarter, less than analysts’ forecasts and below the
7.9 percent pace in the final three months of last year. Growth
in industrial companies’ profits slowed in March, an April 27
report showed.  The fourth quarter’s growth rebound “was an old fashioned
one led by fast implementation of fiscal programs and
accelerated investment,” said Liu Li-Gang, head of Greater
China economics at  Australia  & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
Hong Kong. “Now the momentum has petered off as shown by recent
slowing investment growth.”  Loosen Controls  China’s new government “must initiate a new round of
reform programs to restart the sputtering economy” including
plans for urbanization, reducing service-industry taxes and
loosening controls on interest  rates , Liu said in an e-mail.  Separately today, South Korean  exports  rose less than
forecast in April, climbing 0.4 percent from a year earlier,
while imports declined 0.5 percent, government data showed. In
 Indonesia , inflation slowed to 5.57 percent in April from a year
earlier.  In the U.S., companies probably added 150,000 workers in
April, less than the 158,000 recorded in March, economists
forecast ahead of figures due today from the Roseland, New
Jersey-based ADP Research Institute.  In January, the Chinese federation increased the number of
companies in its survey to 3,000 from 820 and reclassified the
industries covered into 21 groups from 31. It hasn’t given a
further breakdown of respondents.  A purchasing managers’ index for large companies fell 0.4
point from March to 51, while a gauge for mid-sized enterprises
rose 0.4 to 50.7 and a reading for small businesses dropped 1.7
to 47.6, according to the statistics bureau.  “China needs to cement its domestic economic growth
momentum and guard against potential risks in financial
sectors,” the Politburo Standing Committee said in an April 25
statement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  