-- Commodities Retreat for Second Day on Slower China, U.S. Economy
-- B y   S t e p h e n   V o s s
-- 2013-05-01T14:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/commodities-retreat-for-second-day-on-slower-china-u-s-economy.html
Commodities dropped for a second day,
led by metals and oil, on signs of economic slowdown in  China 
and the U.S., and speculation a government report will show
crude stockpiles rose last week.  The Standard & Poor’s  GSCI (SPGSCI)  gauge of 24 commodities fell 2
percent as of 10:08 a.m. in  New York , as copper, nickel and
silver lost 3 percent or more.  Brent crude  slipped below $100 a
barrel for the first time in six days. China’s manufacturing
expanded at a slower pace in April, while ADP Research Institute
said U.S. companies added fewer workers than forecast.  “The ADP number is quite disappointing and the Chinese
manufacturing report is really weighing on this market,” said
Bill Baruch, a senior market strategist at Iitrader.com in
 Chicago , referring to  oil prices .  ADP Research said U.S. companies added 119,000 workers to
payrolls in April, less than the median forecast of 150,000.  Chinese and Australian reports today also signaled a
slowdown as a U.K. Purchasing Managers’ Index showed a third
month of contraction. China’s PMI was at 50.6, the National
Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said. That compared with the 50.7 median forecast of
analysts and a March reading of 50.9.  Aluminum declined to $1,826.75 a metric ton in London while
copper fell to $6,813.25 a ton. China is the biggest buyer of
industrial metals and the largest energy consumer. Gold fell 1.6
percent, after dropping 7.6 percent in April, the biggest
monthly loss since December 2011.  OPEC Production  Brent slipped to $99.72 a barrel in intraday trading on the
ICE Futures Europe exchange. West Texas Intermediate crude for
June delivery fell as much as 3 percent to $90.62 on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , decreasing for a second day.  OPEC production increased to a five-month high in April,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg yesterday. A report by
the Energy Department report at 10:30 a.m. in  Washington  is
expected to show a gain in U.S. crude stockpiles last week.  Copper fell for a second day in New York on concern demand
will take time to revive after an official manufacturing gauge
was weaker than projected in China.  “Chinese end-users were taking advantage of low prices to
restock,” Nic Brown, head of commodities research at Natixis SA
in London, said by e-mail today. “With China out for three
days, the market is losing some of that positive impetus.”  Copper for delivery in July dropped 3.3 percent to $3.084 a
pound by 10:10 a.m. on the Comex in New York.  Most European equity and bond markets were closed for a
holiday though commodity futures markets remained open.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Voss in  London  at 
 sev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  