-- Construction Spending Decreases on U.S. Government Slump
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-05-01T14:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/construction-spending-unexpectedly-drops-on-u-s-public-pullback.html
Construction spending in the U.S.
unexpectedly fell in March, reflecting the biggest slump in
government projects in 11 years.  Outlays decreased 1.7 percent to a $856.7 billion annual
rate, the least since August, the Commerce Department reported
today in  Washington . The median forecast of 46 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.6 percent rise. Public
projects dropped by 4.1 percent, the biggest decrease since
March 2002.  The plunge in government property procurement swamped a
gain in homebuilding in March, and highlights the risk that the
automatic across-the-board cuts known as sequestration that
started that month represent for the economy. Revised figures
also showed construction spending plunged by a record in
January, indicating the industry will contribute less to first-
quarter GDP when those figures are released at the end of this
month.  “State and local governments have been less willing to
engage in new construction projects for the last several years
since they’ve been recovering from the budgetary stresses of the
recession,” said  Ryan Wang , an economist at HSBC Securities USA
Inc. in  New York  and the only forecaster in the Bloomberg survey
to predict a drop in construction outlays. “Probably public
levels of construction will be held steady for this year, but
meanwhile we have an ongoing recovery in residential
construction.”  Survey Results  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a drop of 0.3
percent to a 1.5 percent gain. February’s reading was revised to
show a 1.5 percent gain from the initial estimate of a 1.2
percent advance. January now shows a 4 percent drop, the most
since records began in 1993.  Revisions showed construction spending climbed 1.5 percent
in February, more than previously estimated, and plunged a
record 4 percent in January.  Construction spending increased 4.7 percent in the 12
months ended in March before adjusting for seasonal variations.  Private construction spending declined 0.6 percent from the
prior month.  In housing,  outlays (CNSTTMOM)  climbed 0.4 percent to a $294.9 billion
annualized pace. The gain was led by single-family units, which
increased 1.6 percent. Private non-residential projects fell 1.5
percent, led by commercial and healthcare.  Public Outlays  The drop in spending on public construction brought the
value down to $258.3 billion, the weakest since October 2006.
Federal outlays dropped 1.7 percent and state and local agency
spending fell 4.3 percent.  Recent reports show the housing recovery is gaining
traction, increasing demand for homebuilders such as  Bloomfield
Hills , Michigan-based  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)   “With five quarters of generally improving market
conditions in the rearview mirror, I think it’s safe to say that
a sustained recovery in demand for housing is indeed underway,”
Richard Dugas Jr., PulteGroup’s chief executive officer, said on
an April 25 earnings call.  New-home construction climbed to its highest level in
almost five years last month. Starts increased 7 percent to a
1.04 million annual rate, the most since June 2008, from a
revised 968,000 pace in February.  Home Sales  Sales of  new homes  rose 1.5 percent to a 417,000 annual
pace in March, completing the strongest quarter since 2008.  Existing-home (ETSLTOTL)  sales dropped in March as a lean supply of
properties kept the industry from generating a stronger
recovery, according to National Association of Realtors data.
Purchases of previously owned homes fell 0.6 percent to a 4.92
million annualized rate. The median price increased 11.8 percent
from a year earlier.  More Americans than forecast signed contracts in March to
buy previously owned homes, the realtors’ group reported earlier
this week. The  index  of pending home sales increased 1.5 percent
after a revised 1 percent decline the prior month.  Today’s report may reduce first-quarter growth estimates
when the figures are released later this month. Residential
construction rose at a 12.6 percent annualized rate in the first
three months of the year, contributing 0.3 percentage point to
the quarter’s 2.5 percent pace of growth, Commerce Department
figures showed last week.  Spending on commercial structures was little changed,
dropping at a 0.3 percent rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  