-- Copper Slides on Weaker-Than-Estimated Chinese Manufacturing
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-05-01T08:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/copper-slides-on-weaker-than-estimated-chinese-manufacturing.html
Copper fell for a second day in  London 
on concern demand will take time to revive after an official
manufacturing gauge was weaker than projected in China, the
world’s biggest consumer of the metal.  A Purchasing Managers’ Index was at 50.6 in April, China’s
statistics bureau and logistics federation said today, below the
50.7 median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
Markets in the country will reopen tomorrow after a three-day
break. Copper rose in London trading last week after five weeks
of declines, the longest streak since November.  “Chinese end-users were taking advantage of low prices to
restock,” Nic Brown, head of commodities research at Natixis SA
in London, said by e-mail today. “With  China  out for three
days, the market is losing some of that positive impetus.”  Copper for delivery in three months lost 1.3 percent to
$6,964 a metric ton by 9:22 a.m. on the London Metal Exchange
after slumping for a third month in April. Copper for delivery
in July dropped 1.1 percent to $3.151 a pound on the Comex in
New York, where futures trading volumes were 48 percent lower
than the average in the past 100 days for the time of day.  “Despite the poor macro data we’ve been seeing in recent
weeks, I’d imagine there might also be some replenishment of
inventories as demand for copper products begins to improve,”
Brown said of China. Imports of refined copper into the country
rose in March from a 19-month low, figures showed last week.  Prices also slid today as Antofagasta Plc, the sixth-
largest copper miner, said first-quarter production rose 13
percent from a year earlier, signaling supply remains ample.
Copper inventories tracked by the LME almost doubled this year.  The Federal Reserve will probably reduce its monthly bond
buying in the fourth quarter to $50 billion from $85 billion as
unwinding of record stimulus begins, economists surveyed by
Bloomberg said before a policy meeting concludes today. The U.S.
is the second-biggest copper consumer.  Copper stockpiles monitored by the LME fell 0.1 percent to
618,175 tons, daily exchange figures showed. Orders to withdraw
the metal from warehouses declined 1.5 percent to 157,725 tons.  Tin for delivery in three months on the LME dropped as much
as 2.6 percent. Nickel, zinc, lead and aluminum declined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  