-- CPI Files for Chapter 7 Bankruptcy to Liquidate Assets
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-05-01T21:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/cpi-files-bankruptcy-to-liquidate-assets.html
CPI Corp. (CPIC) , a family portrait-
photography company, filed for bankruptcy to liquidate its
assets after shutting down U.S. operations.  The company, based in  St. Louis , listed debt of
$135 million and assets of $10.4 million in Chapter 7 documents
filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware .
Under Chapter 7 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code , a trustee is
automatically appointed to take over, dismantle the company and
sell its assets for the benefit of creditors.  Three Canadian companies including CPI Corp. were admitted
under the Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act, Canada’s equivalent of
Chapter 7, on April 15 in Ontario’s Superior Court of Justice,
according to a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing.  CPI closed all its U.S. and Puerto Rican studio and store
operations on April 3, resulting in more than 4,300 employees’
being fired, according to an  SEC filing .  Visitors to its website will be greeted with only a
 message : “After many years of providing family portrait
photography, we are sad to announce that all of our U.S.
portrait studios are now closed.”  CPI, in business for more than 60 years, offered portrait
studios at about 2,700 locations, mostly at retailers Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. and Sears Holdings Corp., according to its  website 
and a Dec. 31 statement.  Sales Drop  The company reported net sales for the quarter ended Nov.
10 that fell 26 percent to $69.5 million from $94.6 million for
the same period a year prior, according to the December
statement. The sales resulted in a loss of $20.2 million, which
the company largely attributed to declines in same-store sales.  Secured creditors are owed about $99.4 million, and
unsecured creditors are owed about $35.6 million, according to
court papers. The company lists a pension liability as its
biggest unsecured claim, owing $22.4 million as of Feb. 2. Wal-
Mart has an unsecured claim of about $5.9 million, and Sears is
owed about $2.8 million in unsecured debt.  The case is In re CPI Corp., 1:13-bk-11158, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 