-- Credit Suisse Names Investment Banking Co-Heads in Europe
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-05-01T14:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/credit-suisse-names-investment-banking-heads-as-welch-leaves.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s
second-largest bank, named Marisa Drew and Ewen Stevenson as co-
heads of European investment banking to replace Jamie Welch, who
will leave to join a client.  Drew is co-head of the global market solutions group and
Stevenson is co-head of the global financial institutions group,
the bank said in memorandums to employees today. A spokesman for
Credit Suisse in London confirmed the contents. Welch will join
Dallas-based  Energy Transfer Partners LP (ETP)  as chief financial
officer and head of corporate development.  It “looks like the natural progression of bankers
following a high profile departure,” said  Christopher Wheeler ,
a London-based analyst at Mediobanca SpA. “Banks are not keen
to spend money on new blood in these markets, they would rather
promote internally and minimize disruption.”  Credit Suisse posted a jump in first-quarter profit last
month on lower costs and improved earnings at the securities
unit. Revenue from underwriting and advisory at the Zurich-based
bank rose 3.4 percent to 763 million francs ($822 million), as
increases in debt and equity underwriting were partially offset
by lower fees from mergers and acquisitions.  ‘Important Contributor’  Europe ,  Middle East  and Africa “is an important
contributor of revenue and cross-border mergers and acquisitions
and financing activity for our global franchise,” Gael de Boissard, chief executive officer for Europe and global head of
 investment banking  Jim Amine said in the memo. “Our investment-
banking franchise in EMEA is now well positioned to capitalize
on revenue opportunities.”  Drew was hired from Merrill Lynch & Co. to head its
European leveraged corporate finance business in 2003, while
Stevenson joined the bank in 1989. Both will also continue in
their current positions, Credit Suisse said. The moves were
reported by Financial News earlier today.  Welch joined Credit Suisse in 1997 and has held other
positions including co-head of global energy. His clients
included TXU, which is now called Energy Future Holdings Corp.,
Energy Transfer and  Dynegy Inc. (DYN)   “As a result of changes he made to the business model, our
franchise in EMEA is poised to deliver solid results in the
current muted market conditions,” Amine said in the memo,
referring to Welch.  The bank’s Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  said on
April 24 the first-quarter performance showed that Credit
Suisse’s strategy of cutting costs across businesses while
sticking to a fully-fledged investment bank as UBS AG scales
back “is working.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  