-- Crop Prices Decline on Speculation U.S. Winter Wheat May Recover
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2013-05-01T03:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/crop-prices-decline-on-speculation-u-s-winter-wheat-may-recover.html
Crop prices dropped, led by wheat, as
investors cashed in gains on speculation rains may help the
winter variety recover in  Kansas , the largest U.S. grower, after
drought and frost damaged plants.  Wheat for delivery in July lost as much as 1.2 percent to
$7.225 a bushel on the  Chicago  Board of Trade, after climbing
5.6 percent in the past two days. Futures traded at $7.2525 at
11:02 a.m. Singapore time.  Yields in central Kansas were estimated at 43.8 bushels an
acre after a survey of 277 fields by analysts, farmers and grain
traders participating in an annual three-day tour of the state’s
crop. That compares with an average of 44 bushels an acre in the
central district of the state and 44.5 bushels in the north-
central region last year, U.S. Department of Agriculture data
showed. Rains may help the state get a “decent crop” even as
it sustains freeze damage, Julia Debes, a spokesman at
Arlington, Virginia-based U.S. Wheat Associates, said in an
interview.  “We’re seeing profit-taking in the market after the surge
in prices,”  Hiroyuki Kikukawa , general manager for researcher
at Nihon Unicom Inc., said in an e-mail from  Tokyo  today.  Rains were forecast in some parts of central and south
plains in the U.S., Joel Burgio, an agricultural meteorologist
at DTN, said in a report yesterday. In the Midwest, continued
dry and warm weather today may benefit crops before rains
redevelop in  Illinois , he said. The Midwest is the largest U.S.
corn and soybean growing region.  Corn for July delivery declined 0.7 percent to $6.455 a
bushel in Chicago, while soybeans slipped 0.2 percent to
$13.9625 a bushel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  