-- Czech Central Bank Set to Seek Intervention Clues in New Outlook
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-05-01T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/czech-central-bank-set-to-seek-intervention-clues-in-new-outlook.html
The Czech central bank will seek clues
in its new economic outlook today about whether currency sales
are needed to stimulate the economy after cutting  interest rates 
to effectively zero failed to end a recession.  The Ceska Narodni Banka in Prague bank will keep the
 benchmark  interest rate at 0.05 percent for a fourth meeting,
all 18 economists in a Bloomberg  survey  said. The Czechs will
maintain a discount to the euro area’s borrowing costs even as
the  European Central Bank  will probably cut its main rate by a
quarter-point to 0.50 percent today, according to the median
 forecast  of 70 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Czech policy makers, whose quarterly outlook today may
reflect a weaker exchange rate, are in uncharted territory as
they debate whether the first koruna sales in a decade are
needed to meet their inflation goal. The  economy  has shrunk for
five quarters, the longest contraction since at least 1996, as
households and businesses spend less because of  Europe ’s debt
crisis and government austerity measures.  “We still think the central bank should ease monetary
policy sooner rather than later, but we also acknowledge that
the board is split over the need for further easing,”
Stanislava Pravdova-Nielsen, a Copenhagen-based  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) 
analyst, said in a note before the meeting. “We do not expect
the bank to use the foreign-exchange channel any time soon.”  Koruna Weakness  After three rate cuts last year exhausted the scope for
further reductions, the koruna is at the center of policy
deliberations as a weaker  exchange rate  boosts exports that
account for about 80 percent of economic output, increases
import prices and limits deflation risks.  The Czech currency has lost 4.6 percent to the euro since
Sept. 17, the day before central bank Governor Miroslav Singer
first said policy makers may sell the currency to meet their
inflation goal. It was the fourth-worst performance in that
period among major emerging-market peers tracked by Bloomberg.  The koruna was weaker in the first quarter than the central
bank had predicted. The CNB will probably worsen its outlook for
the currency in new quarterly forecasts to be presented today,
according to Jan Vejmelek, chief economist at Komercni Banka AS,
a Societe Generale SA unit in Prague.  Monetary authorities across the region are easing policy to
help boost growth as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis drags on.
 Hungary ’s central bank cut the  benchmark  for a ninth month to
4.75 percent on April 23, while Polish  rates  have fallen 150
points since November to 3.25 percent. Both are record lows.  Deflation ‘Problem’  The  Czech Republic  doesn’t face a deflation threat that
would require currency interventions now, central banker Pavel
Rezabek said in an April 23 interview. Interventions should be
used only in extraordinary situations and, if conducted, the
primary goal would be to “solve a deflation problem,” he said.  “We’re not in a situation to realistically expect
deflation in the near future,” Rezabek said. “The risk of
deflation has significantly declined, and we can say it may have
even been fully eliminated, unless a major shock occurs. We
should be careful about using this instrument as long as
inflation on the policy horizon isn’t at risk.”  The comments added to signs of a split among board members
on the policy outlook after the bank said currency sales would
be the next tool should it need to further ease monetary
conditions.  ‘Relatively Strong’  Disinflationary pressures remain “relatively strong,”
Deputy Governor  Vladimir Tomsik  said in an April 24 interview
with the Ceska Pozice news website. While the koruna is weaker
now than assumed in the central bank’s February forecast, the
economy faces new anti-inflationary risks, Tomsik said, adding
that he couldn’t say yet whether quick action is needed.  Czech  inflation  was 1.7 percent in March, unchanged from
February. The central bank had forecast annual inflation at 2
percent in March, the same as its target. Inflation relevant for
monetary policy, defined as price growth adjusted for changes in
indirect taxes, was 0.9 percent, below the central bank’s 1
percent to 3 percent target band.  The central bank in February cut its 2013 economic-growth
forecast as the government’s austerity measures continue to damp
demand. GDP will contract 0.3 percent this year before growing
2.1 percent in 2014, while the inflation rate will be 1.7
percent in the first and second quarters of next year, it
projects.  Prime Minister Petr Necas’s government agreed last week to
target a wider  budget deficit  in 2014 than initially planned in
a bid to boost growth. The decision reduces the likelihood of
currency interventions, said Mohammed Kazmi, a London-based
strategist for  emerging markets  at RBS.  While policy makers “remain fairly split on whether to use
FX intervention, we do not sense any imminent urgency for
further monetary easing, given the recent weakness” in the
koruna rate, Kazmi said in a report to clients on April 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  