-- DBS Profit Unexpectedly Increases on Fees and Trading Income
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-05-02T01:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/dbs-profit-unexpectedly-increases-on-fees-and-trading-income.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , Southeast
Asia’s largest bank, unexpectedly posted an 11th straight
increase in quarterly profit as fees, commissions and trading
income rose, helping offset narrower lending margins.  Net income advanced 2 percent to S$950 million ($770
million) in the three months ended March 31 from S$933 million a
year earlier, the Singapore-based lender said in a statement to
the stock exchange today. That exceeded the S$824 million
 average  of six analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Shares
of DBS rose to their  highest  in almost five years.  Chief Executive Officer  Piyush Gupta  is betting on fee-
generating businesses such as  wealth management  and growth
overseas through his proposed acquisition of PT  Bank Danamon (BDMN) 
Indonesia as near-zero interest rates crimp loan margins in
Singapore. Smaller rival  Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. (OCBC)  earlier
this week also posted profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  “No matter what business you’re in, that DBS is growing
its revenues without apparently taking on a huge amount of asset
risk is a positive for shareholders,” said  Matthew Smith , an
analyst at Macquarie Capital Securities Singapore Pte.
“If they can continue to do this, it’s fantastic.”  Shares of DBS rose 1.8 percent to S$17.06 as of 9:35 a.m.
in Singapore, their highest in intraday trading since July 2008.
The stock has gained 15 percent this year, surpassing the 6.5
percent advance in the benchmark  Straits Times Index. (FSSTI)   Fees, Commissions  Net fees and commissions climbed 25 percent from a year
earlier to S$507 million, led by  investment banking , wealth
management and loan-related fees, DBS said today. Trading income
rose 26 percent to S$410 million.  DBS’s net interest income, or the difference between what
it makes from lending and pays on deposits, was little changed
at S$1.3 billion. Its net interest margin narrowed to 1.64
percent in the quarter from 1.77 percent a year earlier.  Singapore’s banks have the  lowest margins  in  Southeast
Asia , averaging 1.94 percent at the end of last year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. At OCBC, Southeast Asia’s second-
largest lender, net interest margin contracted to 1.64 percent
in the quarter from 1.86 percent a year earlier.  OCBC on April 30 reported a smaller decline in first-
quarter profit than analysts had estimated as an increase in
fees and commissions outweighed the narrowing loan margins. Its
net income declined 16 percent to S$696 million.  Danamon Bid  Gupta is awaiting approval on his $6.8 billion bid last
year for Bank Danamon to tap earnings in Indonesia, where the
average net interest margin for lenders is about 6.3 percent,
the highest in Southeast Asia.  Bank Indonesia  will probably have
a decision by early May on the proposed acquisition, Governor
Darmin Nasution said on April 15.  Indonesia’s economy is expected to grow 6.25 percent this
year, the fastest among Southeast Asian countries, according to
the median estimate from a Bloomberg survey of economists.
Singapore’s gross domestic product shrank an annualized 1.4
percent in the three months through March 31 from the previous
quarter, when it rose 3.3 percent.  DBS’s loan book expanded 13 percent from a year earlier to
S$223.7 billion in the three months. Provisions for credit and
other losses increased 55 percent to S$223 million.  Singapore’s average monthly  credit growth  slowed to about
19 percent in the quarter from 27 percent a year earlier,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on Monetary Authority
of  Singapore  data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  