-- Denmark Exhausts Stimulus Avenues as Housing Losses Persist
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-05-01T10:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/denmark-exhausts-last-stimulus-avenues-as-housing-losses-persist.html
Denmark ’s government says it has
exhausted all avenues for adding stimulus as the economy shows
signs of sinking into its third recession since the global
financial crisis started.  “We’ve used whatever leeway there is,” Economy Minister
 Margrethe Vestager  said in a telephone interview from Copenhagen
late yesterday. “There’s no more space to stimulate the Danish
economy.”  Denmark’s $300 billion  economy probably contracted  last
quarter, after shrinking 0.7 percent in the three months through
December, according to  Danske Bank (DANSKE)  A/S and Svenska Handelsbanken
AB. That would mark the nation’s  third recession  in less than
four years, singling Denmark out as the Scandinavian nation
hardest hit by the global financial crisis.  The country has yet to surface from the fallout of a burst
housing bubble that’s sent property prices plunging more than 20
percent since 2007. The average sales price for a single-family
home fell 5.9 percent in January from a month earlier, the
statistics office said April 5.  The government of Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt won
lawmaker backing last week for a 75 billion-krone ($13 billion)
package of support measures including corporate tax cuts and tax
breaks on home refurbishment.  Too Small  The measures are too small to jolt Denmark out of its
economic plight, according to Danske Bank, the nation’s largest
lender. The government has argued that dedicating more public
funds to stimulus would jeopardize its stable AAA rating.  The euro area will contract 0.3 percent this year after
shrinking 0.6 percent in 2012, the European Commission said in
February. Of the 17 nations that make up the bloc, only  Finland 
still boasts a stable AAA credit grade at the three major
ratings companies.  The Economy Ministry said yesterday gross domestic product
will grow 0.7 percent this year, an estimate that paints “a
far-too rosy picture of Denmark’s economic prospects,”
according to Jes Asmussen, chief economist at Handelsbanken in
Copenhagen.  Denmark’s central bank uses monetary policy to defend the
krone’s peg to the euro. A public debt load that’s less than
half the euro zone’s average has helped Denmark maintain its top
rating throughout the crisis, spurring a capital influx and
forcing the central bank to cut rates to defend the currency
peg. The benchmark lending rate is 0.3 percent while the deposit
rate is minus 0.1 percent.  Debt Costs  Denmark pays 14 basis points more than  Germany  to borrow
over 10 years. Its 1.5 percent bond due November 2023 yielded
1.355 percent as of 12:18 p.m. in Copenhagen, lower than any
euro member except Germany. Five-year credit-default swaps on
Danish government debt rose to 33 basis points today, their
highest in a week based on closing prices, from 31 basis points
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “With the uncertainties that persist in  Europe  it would be
unwise to spend more as things can still change for the worse,”
Vestager said.  Her ministry estimates the  budget deficit  will reach 1.7
percent of GDP this year and 1.8 percent in 2014. The figures
include an estimated 40 billion kroner in proceeds from capital
pension taxes. Excluding that windfall, Denmark may approach the
European Union’s 3 percent limit, Vestager said.  Handelsbanken yesterday cut its forecast for the Danish
economy to a 0.1 percent contraction in 2013 from a previous 0.3
percent growth forecast. That will also reduce government income
and means “the official budget forecast is much too
optimistic,” Asmussen said.  No Improvement  While low  interest rates  have helped keep most Danes in
their homes even after property values plunged, the lingering
effects of the nation’s housing crisis continue to blunt demand,
according to Danske Bank.  “It’s weighing significantly on private consumption,”
 Steen Bocian , chief economist at Danske, said in a telephone
interview. “The  property market  won’t improve enough to have a
positive impact on private consumption in the economy this
year.”  Thorning-Schmidt’s three-party coalition has pledged to
restore economic growth to 2 percent on average from 2014
through 2020. Vestager said growth will accelerate in the second
half of this year, allowing the government to reach its long-
term target.  “We have government debt under control and are using our
fiscal leeway to support employment,” Vestager said. Measures
taken are designed to “sustain confidence in Denmark’s
economy,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  