-- Deutsche Bank Warns of Failures Under Proposed U.S. Rules
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-05-01T17:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/deutsche-bank-warns-of-failures-under-proposed-u-s-rules.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  and other foreign
banks with major U.S. operations say a Federal Reserve effort to
force them to meet local capital standards puts them at greater
risk of failure, and their regulators warn of reprisals.  The Fed is preparing to require that such banks establish
intermediate holding companies atop their U.S. subsidiaries, as
directed by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act. Like U.S. banks, the Fed-
regulated holding companies would have to meet capital standards
and submit to stress tests. The rule, for which a public comment
period ended yesterday, would take effect July 1, 2015.  Deutsche Bank, continental  Europe ’s biggest bank, said the
proposal would reverse international progress on global
regulations and could “increase the potential for failure” of
a U.S. subsidiary because it hampers the foreign parent company
from supporting it in times of stress.  “The daisy-chain effect would create systemic harm to the
U.S. financial system as well as lead to global financial
instability,” said Jacques Brand, chief executive officer of
Deutsche Bank North America, and Bill Woodley, deputy CEO, in a
letter to the agency.  Deutsche Bank announced on April 29 that it would raise as
much as 4.8 billion euros ($6.3 billion) to bolster capital as
regulators heighten requirements. Deutsche Bank’s U.S. arm would
need a $13 billion infusion of capital if the Fed’s rule goes
through, Goldman Sachs analysts said in a March 1 note, adding
that the German firm would be the hardest-hit European bank
under the rule.  Rating Downgrade  An internal transfer of capital of that scale would drop
the Frankfurt-based lender’s capitalization elsewhere, “which
could increase pressure for an external recap, in our view,”
the analysts wrote. “We downgrade our rating to sell.”  The Fed’s proposal would require foreign lenders with more
than $50 billion in global consolidated assets and U.S.
subsidiaries with more than $10 billion to set up intermediate
holding companies. Each new holding company would gather all the
bank’s subsidiaries into one place, subjecting them to U.S.
capital, liquidity and stress-test standards.  The Institute of International Bankers said more than two
dozen banks would have to comply, and the change would
“profoundly disrupt” their U.S. operations. Sarah A. Miller,
the group’s chief executive officer, said in a comment letter
yesterday that the proposal is “virtually certain” to keep
some foreign banks from U.S. markets and creates a “risk that
other countries will adopt reciprocal measures in response.”  Oversight Strengths  Disregarding the strengths of home-country oversight for
the big banks is also “contrary to congressional intent,”
according to Miller, who said her group represents banks with $5
trillion in U.S.-based assets and provide a quarter of the
country’s commercial and industrial bank loans.  The proposal is meant to make sure U.S. taxpayers don’t
have to bail out foreign banks again. In the 2008 financial
crisis, the Fed provided $538 billion of emergency loans to the
U.S. units of European banks, almost as much as it did to
domestic firms.  “The proposal is directly responsive to the
vulnerabilities in foreign bank activities observed during and
after the financial crisis,” Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said
when the agency approved it in December. “Many large foreign
banking organizations came to rely heavily on short-term,
wholesale U.S. dollar funding and thereby became subject to
destabilizing runs.”  ‘Radical Departure’  In an April 18 letter to Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke ,  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial services chief, called
the proposal “a radical departure from the existing U.S.
policy” that he thinks “could spark a protectionist reaction
from other jurisdictions.” He encouraged consideration of
“equivalent” supervision by the home countries as provided in
the EU.  “We strongly believe that the global financial markets can
only be supervised globally,”  Bundesbank vice president Sabine Lautenschlaeger and BaFin president Elke Koenig, top German
banking regulators, said in an April 26 letter to the Fed that
called the proposal a “go it alone” effort. “The proposed
rule will have a negative impact on international cooperation.”  The German regulators said that banks in Europe “could be
forced to reduce their activities in the U.S., as waivers for
group-wide  capital requirements  would be under threat.”  Japan ’s central bank also argued that U.S. regulators
should acknowledge when foreign-bank units’ “home countries’
authorities and central banks, including the  Bank of Japan , are
scrupulous in liquidity monitoring on a global basis,” Hiroki Tanaka, executive director of the Bank of Japan, wrote in a
comment letter. He criticized the inconsistency of the proposal
with “the efforts made at international forums.”  ‘Stricter’ Limits  The Dodd-Frank mandate was developed separately from the
so-called Basel III global capital accords. The law had also
required that foreign banks’ existing U.S. holding companies to
meet new capital rules. Deutsche Bank and  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
reorganized U.S. units to sidestep that provision.  The Fed’s pending rule, which would apply to those banks,
doesn’t go far enough, according to nonprofit advocacy group
Better Markets. The Washington-based group called for a rule
with “stricter” leverage limits in a letter from Dennis Kelleher, its president, and Marc Jarsulic, its chief economist.  “If such modest regulations are not adopted, then foreign
banking organizations operating in the U.S. will continue to
expose U.S. taxpayers to the risk of having to bail them out,
while allowing foreign banking organizations the competitive
advantages that flow from evading soundness and stability
regulations,” they said in the letter.  Broker-Dealers  Foreign banks in the U.S. own half of the 10 largest
broker-dealers, according to the Fed, and they are heavily
involved in underwriting U.S. securities. Their commercial-
banking operations are generally smaller, and the proposed rule
still allows cross-border branches of non-U.S. banks -- a group
more numerous than bank subsidiaries -- to operate without the
holding-company umbrella.  Though the U.K. also has similar rules for the local
operations of foreign banks, the IIB said those regulations are
more flexible, including offering waivers from liquidity rules
for firms already required to maintain acceptable easy-access
funding back home.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 