-- Devon Energy to Return $2 Billion of Overseas Cash to U.S.
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-05-01T20:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/devon-energy-plans-to-return-2-billion-of-overseas-cash-to-u-s-.html
Devon Energy Corp. (DVN) , the oil and gas
producer that sold its overseas assets to focus on  North
America , will return $2 billion of those cash sales proceeds to
the U.S. after a change in its tax status.  Devon, based in  Oklahoma City , has about $6.5 billion of
cash invested overseas and expects to spend $500 million of it
this year in  Canada  where it is drilling for oil and ramping up
oil-sands operations, Chief Financial Officer Jeff Agosta said
today on the company’s 2013 first-quarter conference call.  The company reported more than $8.8 billion of proceeds
from sales of overseas and offshore oil and gas assets in 2010
and 2011, investing the money while borrowing to support its
U.S. operations to avoid a tax bite, Chief Executive Officer
John Richels said.  First use of repatriated proceeds will be to pay off that
short-term debt, Agosta said. The company will also consider
share buybacks and believes a “buyers’ market” is emerging for
North American fields, Richels said.  Devon expects a tax rate “in the middle single digits” on
repatriated funds, Agosta said. Devon may repatriate more of the
remaining $4 billion this year or next, he said.  “This raises hopes that they can bring back more of that
money without paying so much in taxes,” Brian Youngberg, a St.
Louis-based analyst for  Edward Jones  who rates Devon a hold and
owns no shares, said today in a telephone interview.  A tax rate of 5 percent on repatriated cash represents a
savings of $500 million to $600 million, or about $1 a share,
over the 35 percent tax rate investors had been expecting,
Youngberg said.  Tax Rate  Devon  increased  0.3 percent to $55.24 at the close in New
York.  A recent re-evaluation of sales and spending forecasts
indicates the company will have sufficient tax-loss carry
forwards and foreign tax credits to reduce cash taxes on the $2
billion repatriation, Vince White, Devon’s investor-relations
chief, said in a telephone interview after the conference call.  The tax status isn’t related to a first-quarter net loss of
$1.3 billion, or $3.34 a share, reported today under generally
accepted accounting principals, White said.  Non-cash costs of $1.6 billion to write down the value of
oil and natural gas liquids reserves on lower market prices
caused the loss. Per-share profit excluding one-time items was
66 cents, 11 cents better than the average of 27 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg from analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  