-- Divided Belfast Laments 15 Years of Peace Bringing No Prosperity
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2013-05-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/divided-belfast-laments-15-years-of-peace-bringing-no-prosperity.html
Robert Ireland and John Bryars are
from opposite sides of the 40-foot concrete walls that still
embody the  sectarian divide  in  Belfast . Fifteen years after a
peace agreement was supposed to replace violence with
prosperity, they are united only by unemployment.  “This is the toughest time I can remember for work,” said
Ireland, 30, browsing job postings at a center in Whiterock, a
predominantly Catholic district of west Belfast where one in
five men of working age has no employment. “Things haven’t
changed. It’s still hard for people, maybe harder.”  While the swelling ranks of jobless Spaniards and Greeks
have become an emblem of  Europe ’s economic crisis, few cities
are struggling more than Belfast after a post-conflict revival
was snuffed out as quickly as it came.  The  Good Friday Agreement  in April 1998 ended three decades
of bombs and shootings between mainly Catholic republicans
seeking a united Ireland and Protestant unionists loyal to the
U.K. As well as leaving 3,500 people dead, the “Troubles” made
 Northern Ireland  more dependent on public spending, both for
jobs and welfare, than any U.K. region. As money dried up, so
did the employment prospects for people like Ireland and Bryars.  “People wanted peace but they didn’t realize it would take
more than that to deliver jobs,” Bryars, 47, whose friend’s
parents were killed by a republican bomb in the 1970s, said in a
center for the jobless in Sandy Row, a loyalist area. “Nobody
expected the big recession to happen. Nobody was prepared.”  Return to 1990s  After falling to a 30-year low following the accord, the
 unemployment rate  is now back where it was and as high as 27
percent for males in some Belfast neighborhoods, levels last
seen before the  peace process  began.  Northern Ireland’s economy grew by almost 70 percent in the
decade after the  Irish Republican Army  declared a cease-fire in
1997, according to  figures  compiled by the region’s government.
The boom, like in Ireland to the south, was driven by the
building of houses, apartments and offices, services such as
retailers and  call centers  that arrived in the late 1990s.  Since then, companies including Seagate Technology Inc.,
the world’s largest disk-drive maker, scaled back  operations  in
Northern Ireland. The company shut a components plant in
September 2008, resulting in the loss of more than 900 jobs. It
added 85 research jobs elsewhere in the province in 2010.  Housing Bubble  FG Wilson, a unit of Caterpillar Inc., announced plans last
year to eliminate 800 jobs at its engineering plant outside
Belfast. As the housing bubble burst, construction companies
such as Belfast-based Taggart Holdings, which employed more than
150 people during the boom, went out of business.  Between 2005 and 2008,  home prices  almost doubled. Then
they dropped by about 50 percent.  The region has a higher proportion of empty stores than
anywhere in the U.K., with a 21 percent vacancy rate, or twice
the national average, according to Glyn Roberts, who heads the
 Northern Ireland Independent Retail Traders Association . In
Belfast, one in four retail units is empty, Roberts said.  “There doesn’t seem to be any light at the end of the
tunnel,” said Sinton McKeown, 50, who runs a newspaper store
down the road from Belfast City Hall. “The office block beside
me closed. People don’t have the money to spend and so many have
lost their jobs that during the week it is much quieter.”  Buzz Gone  McKeown said he employed 22 people in his two stores before
the economy took a dive again and he reduced staff by 10.  Belfast was a “buzzing” place from the late 1990s until
the financial crisis of 2008, McKeown said. “There were
shoppers, tourists, construction workers. In the morning, there
was a queue outside the shop.”  About 27 percent of the population is defined as
 economically inactive , or without a job and not looking for one,
labor statistics show. Although still officially at 8.4 percent,
joblessness is increasing at the fastest pace in the U.K.  “While the local labor market has been particularly
impacted by the downturn, there are some signs of stability,”
said Arlene Foster, Northern Ireland’s minister for enterprise,
who this week announced 55 new jobs at a  marketing company .
“Our aim must be to build a business environment that is
attractive to both local and inward investors.”  Among people with jobs, more of them depend on the
government for a paycheck than anywhere else just as Prime
Minister  David Cameron  implements some of Europe’s toughest
austerity. There will be 130 billion pounds ($202 billion) of
spending cuts and tax increases by the 2015-2016 financial year,
based on estimates from the Treasury in  London .  ‘Achilles’ Heel’  “We have always been the U.K.’s Achilles’ heel,” said
Angela McGowan, an economist in Belfast at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) ,
which bought a lender based in the city in 2004. “There are no
big solutions coming through, no silver bullets.”  That’s evident in Belfast. A two-hour drive north from
where the Group of Eight industrialized countries will have
their annual meeting in June, the city’s population of 280,000
remains divided and tit-for-tat violence among dissident groups
has returned over the past two years.  So-called peace walls made from concrete topped with
corrugated iron remain in areas of the city where Catholics and
Protestants live side by side. Irish tricolor flags fly on the
Catholic side with the red, white and blue Union Jacks
fluttering on the other.  In west Belfast, where support for the IRA was staunchest
during the Troubles,  murals  of armed fighters still adorn gable
walls. In Protestant east Belfast, depictions of masked and
armed men sit beside slogans saying “Ulster is British.”  British Soldiers  Robert Ireland has lived in Turf Lodge, a republican
housing estate in west Belfast, all his life, and previously
worked as an orderly in a hospital. He remembers watching the
Good Friday Agreement on television when he was about 14.  “I’ve never hung around with Protestants much,” he said
last week at the center for the area’s unemployed. “It’s just
the way it was growing up. I was used to seeing British soldiers
walking around the place and now you don’t see that. In terms of
people having money and work, things haven’t changed much.”  Ireland said he has sent dozens of job applications and
heard nothing back.  Belfast used to be an industrial hub.  Harland & Wolff ,
which built the Titanic liner, was supplemented by employers
such as Shorts, now a unit of Bombardier Inc. At its peak in the
1950s, the shipyard employed 35,000 people, more than a 10th of
the city, before orders dried up. It finally closed in 2000,
with Harland & Wolff now repairing vessels in Belfast and making
equipment for the offshore  energy industry .  Turf Battles  Then, as the U.K.’s industrial decline deepened in the
1960s, Northern Ireland entered an even greater crisis for its
economy. In 1969, the “Troubles” began as joblessness,
particularly in the Catholic community, proliferated.  As part of its “commercial war” against Britain, the IRA
bombed Belfast city center, which by the 1970s had become
accustomed to explosions and sniper gunfire as republicans and
loyalists fought turf battles over the increasingly black
economy as well as the future of Ulster.  The conflict helped push the unemployment rate to almost 18
percent by the early 1980s, according to statistics from the
Department of Enterprise Trade and Investment. The  Good Friday
Agreement  aimed to reverse that with “policies for sustained
economic growth and stability in Northern Ireland.”  For a time, it worked and things picked up. Further efforts
were made to rejuvenate the city’s landscape and revive the
economy as the semi-autonomous government reconvened in May
2007, when unionist leader Ian Paisley agreed to share power
with  Martin McGuinness , a former IRA leader.  Irish Crisis  The  Titanic Quarter , a 650,000 square-feet dockside
development, opened a visitor center last year dedicated to the
ill-fated ocean liner built in Belfast. It attracted 800,000
visitors in its first year. Plans to develop the quarter as a
European financial hub have been less successful, with New York-
based  Citigroup Inc. (C)  as the only banking tenant.  Belfast has been affected by the economic collapse to the
south. The Republic of Ireland, which gained independence from
the U.K. in 1922 as Ulster remained under the British
government, was forced to seek an international bailout in 2010
as a property bubble burst and crippled its banks.  John Bryars said he’s been jobless for 18 months after the
funding ran out at the local community project where he worked.  “The politicians don’t understand that it’s the people at
the bottom that are suffering,” he said. “I’m glad peace is
here, I had friends killed in the Troubles, but the agreement
hasn’t delivered for people on the ground with prosperity.”  Peace Lines  Marion Beattie, 51, a Protestant from Shankill Road, a
street that became synonymous with the Troubles in the 1970s,
volunteers at a church-run café on one of Belfast’s peace lines
simply to avoid the boredom of being at home, she said.  Out of work for two years after losing her position as an
auxiliary nurse, Beattie partly blames the influx of foreign
workers as the economy temporarily picked up.  “During the troubles, there were no foreign workers here
so it was easier in some ways,” she said. “I’m fed up with how
things have been for me and for a lot of other people, but I’m
still confident I’ll get a job.”  The economic malaise is raising sectarian tensions. A
decision in December by Belfast city hall to stop flying the
Union flag everyday sparked three months of  protests , which saw
loyalists blocking roads and rioting with police.  For some, violence was all they ever knew and jobs are key
to ensuring the province doesn’t return to the Troubles.  Paul Hamilton, an ex-IRA prisoner, was working at the
 community center  frequented by Robert Ireland. He had joined the
republican paramilitary group before he left school and was
convicted by the time he was 18 years old.  “When the IRA announced their campaign was over, it felt
like my life was over,” Hamilton said in a room in the center.
“The Good Friday Agreement has been really positive, but of
course the recession has taken the gloss off some things. It’s
made life tougher for everybody.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  