-- Dollar Index Falls as Fed Maintains Stimulus to Spur U.S. Growth
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-05-01T18:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/dollar-index-pares-loss-as-fed-maintains-stimulus-to-spur-growth.html
The  Dollar Index (DXY)  fell for a fifth day
as the  Federal Reserve  said it will maintain its bond buying at
a pace of $85 billion a month and is prepared to raise or lower
the level of purchases as economic conditions evolve.  The gauge, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses to
track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners including the euro and yen, briefly pared
losses as the Fed issued a statement after a two-day meeting.
The index slid to a two-month low earlier after private data
showed American companies hired fewer workers than forecast in
April.  “We’ve seen the slowdown of data and indicators put a
pause in the market’s expectation for the tapering of
quantitative easing,” Brian Daingerfield, a currency strategist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a phone interview before the
central bank’s policy statement. “The Fed has clearly been
cautious on the outlook for the economy.”  The  Dollar Index  decreased 0.2 percent to 81.578 at 2:03
p.m. in  New York . It touched 81.331, the lowest since Feb. 25.  The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage
bonds a month. While Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said after the
central bank’s March meeting that further labor-market gains
were needed to consider reducing monetary easing, minutes showed
officials discussed slowing the pace of purchases.  Economists’ Forecast  None of 47 economists in a Bloomberg News survey undertaken
April 25-29 forecast a decision at this week’s meeting to change
the pace of purchases.  The Dollar Index slid earlier after data from ADP Research
Institute showed U.S. companies added 119,000 workers to
payrolls last month. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast a
gain of 150,000.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing index
fell to 50.7 in April, the slowest pace in four months, from
March’s 51.3, the Tempe, Arizona-based group reported. A
Bloomberg survey forecast 50.5. A reading of 50 is the dividing
line between expansion and contraction.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the
first quarter, trailing a forecast of 3 percent in a Bloomberg
survey of economists, the government said April 26. Consumer
prices fell 0.2 percent in March.  First Rounds  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of Treasury and mortgage-
related debt from 2008 to 2011 in its first two rounds of
quantitative easing. It started a third round in September by
purchasing $40 billion of mortgage securities every month, and
it added $45 billion of Treasuries in December.  The Dollar Index dropped 0.6 percent on the day of the
Fed’s Sept. 13 announcement and declined 0.3 percent the day of
its Dec. 12 policy statement.  The central bank also has kept its benchmark  interest-rate 
target at zero to 0.25 percent since 2008 to support the
economy. Policy makers said in December the rate would stay
there “at least as long” as the  unemployment rate  remains above
6.5 percent and inflation is projected at no more than 2.5
percent. The jobless rate is 7.6 percent.  Net bets by futures traders on an increase in the dollar
versus major counterparts totaled 38,744 contracts in the week
ended April 30, after increasing to 86,776 for a month earlier,
the most since July, according to Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data compiled by Bloomberg. As recently as the week
ended March 4 there was a net bet against America’s currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  