-- Dubai’s Meydan to Build $5.7 Billion District With India’s Sobha
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-05-01T11:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/dubai-s-meydan-to-build-5-7-billion-district-with-india-s-sobha.html
Meydan Group of Dubai and  India ’s
 Sobha Developers Ltd. (SOBHA)  plan to build a 1,500-home project in
Mohammad Bin Rashid City, the largest real estate development to
be revived after the emirate’s property crash.  The companies formed a joint venture to develop the project
on 4 million square meters (43 million square feet) of land. The
District One development will include shops, tourist attractions
and sports facilities and 65 percent of it will be made up of
parks and waterways, Meydan Chairman Saeed Al Tayer said at a
press conference today.  Dubai, which suffered a property crash in 2008, has seen
the revival of large-scale residential, retail and hospitality
projects as the economy recovers. Plans announced recently
include the world’s largest Ferris wheel on a man-made island as
well as five theme parks.  District One will surround a 7-kilometer (4-mile) long
lagoon with man made beaches, shops and restaurants lining both
of its sides.  Al Tayer  declined to specify the cost of the
project or how it will be financed. He estimated the value of
the completed development at 21 billion dirhams ($5.7 billion).  The project will be built in four phases over five to seven
years and will be one of the lowest-density residential
areas, Meydan said. Sobha is a publicly traded house builder
based in Bangalore.  Mohammad Bin Rashid City, known as MBR City, will be built
on 5.1 square kilometers of land east of the Burj Khalifa, the
world’s tallest skyscraper. The district will include 100
hotels, residential areas and the biggest cluster of art
galleries in the  Middle East  and North Africa region as well as
the world’s largest mall. It was set to be developed by  Emaar
Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  as well as Dubai Holding LLC. The companies said
they will build villas set around an 18-hole golf course in a
Dec. 9 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  