-- The Stranger Next Door: Bloomberg Businessweek Opening Remarks
-- B y   A n d r e s   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-05-01T18:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/the-stranger-next-door-bloomberg-businessweek-opening-remarks.html
Not so long ago, if you believe what
you read in the papers and see on TV,  Mexico  was the next
 Afghanistan . It was poor, lawless, and plagued by drug violence,
a failed-state-in-the-making whose problems and people would
soon cascade over the border.  In early 2009 a U.S. Joint Forces Command report speculated
that, in the next quarter-century, Pakistan and Mexico could
prove the most worrisome flash points for American security.
According to a study by Roberto Newell for the Wilson Center,
more than 60 percent of all stories about Mexico in major U.S.
papers were negative in 2007; that figure had risen to more than
80 percent by 2010. A survey of U.S. attitudes toward Mexico in
2012 found only 14 percent of respondents called it a “good
neighbor.” Type “Why is Mexico so” into Google and the first
four adjectives suggested are “dangerous,” “violent,”
“bad,” and “poor.”  In the last year, however, Mexico’s image has witnessed a
dramatic transformation. In the eyes of U.S. media and
policymaking elites, the country’s gone from being the next
Afghanistan to the next  China . The new narrative crescendoed
with the swearing-in last December of President Enrique Peña
Nieto. Journalists covering the event learned, among other
things, that years of effective economic policies and an embrace
of free trade are turning Mexico into a solidly middle-class
society. The Financial Times called Mexico, whose economy grew
3.9 percent in 2012, an “Aztec tiger.”  In February came the ultimate confirmation of Mexico as a
foreign-policy darling:  Thomas Friedman  wrote two columns about
it. “How Mexico Got Back in the Game” read the headline of one
column, which must have come as news to Mexicans who were
unaware they’d ever left it. Friedman opened by saying there was
a new answer to the question of whether India or China would be
the more dominant economic power going forward: Mexico.  Nafta  The absence of more nuance in the coverage of Mexico isn’t
surprising. The country remains surprisingly exotic to many
worldly Americans who’ve long obsessed over other parts of the
world — the  Middle East , the Soviet bloc, the Middle East,  East
Asia , the Middle East — while paying little attention to, or
even bothering to visit, our own neck of the global woods.  But no relationship is of greater importance to the U.S.’s
well-being than that with Mexico. Two decades since the signing
of the  North American Free Trade Agreement , the cross-border
partnership has yet to reach its true potential, even though
manufacturers already view the U.S. and Mexico as a single
market for production purposes.  Immigration  Among the issues now on  Washington ’s agenda, immigration is
directly affected by Mexico’s economic health, and Mexican
cooperation and sound governance will be instrumental to the
effectiveness of any regulated temporary worker program such as
the ones currently being proposed in the Senate. Yet Mexico is
rarely mentioned in congressional discussions on immigration
reform.  President  Barack Obama  can build on his May 2 visit to
Mexico by acknowledging that Nafta and centuries of intertwined
histories, cultures, and peoples shouldn’t be shrugged off like
a one-night stand. The president has often talked about the need
to “pivot” American attention and resources to  Asia . But he
can leave a greater legacy by pivoting to  North America  and
giving Mexico the sustained, strategic engagement it deserves.  Mexico, with all its challenges, represents a success story
in global terms. After the 1995 peso crisis roiled international
markets, Mexico started practicing what Washington only
preaches: living within its means.  Rising Standards  The Organisation of Economic Co-operation and Development
now classifies Mexico, the world’s 14th-largest economy, as a
majority middle-class society. Average income has doubled in the
past 15 years; a quarter of the country’s homes were built
within the past two decades; and the average number of school
years Mexicans attend has doubled in the past four decades.
Mexico is the world’s top per capita consumer of Coca-Cola and
has more Walmarts per person than the U.S. Mexico’s consumer
market is vital to large companies ranging from Citigroup Inc.
to Procter & Gamble Co. to Ford Motor Co. and  General Motors Co. (GM)   Plenty of Americans may think Mexico is dirt-poor, but our
neighbor imports more U.S. goods than any country besides
 Canada , and more than  Germany ,  France , and the U.K. combined.
It’s also the third-largest provider of oil to the U.S., behind
Canada and  Saudi Arabia . It used to rank second, but
mismanagement of the state-owned behemoth Petróleos Mexicanos,
or Pemex, has diminished Mexico’s oil output. This may be a
blessing in disguise for the country’s overall economy, which
has diversified its export base to the point where oil now only
accounts for less than 20 percent of export revenue. For the
federal government, however, the failure to expand production
has been a disaster, as Pemex accounts for about 34 percent of
the government’s budget. That’s why Peña Nieto is eager to
encourage foreign investment in Mexico’s oil sector.  Drug War  The Mexican president also wants to shift attention away
from the war on drug cartels — he’ll still prosecute it but
would probably not lose sleep over the cartels’ existence if the
violence could be brought under control — which has claimed more
than 60,000 lives in the past six years.  Peña Nieto has been energetically taking on other powerful
interests in his attempt to prove he’s a man of reform. He’s
imprisoned the once-untouchable head of the powerful national
teacher’s union and advanced education reforms contrary to the
union’s interests; he proposed a new telecom law to open up the
telephone and cable-TV markets; and he’s pushing financial
reform that pours more credit into the economy.  Local Confidence    A Gallup poll of public attitudes earlier this year
reflected the country’s buoyant mood. Asked whether they’d want
to leave Mexico permanently, only 11 percent said yes — the same
percentage of Americans who answered in the affirmative — down
from 21 percent in 2007. Net migration across the border has
declined from nearly half a million a year before the 2008
recession to almost zero, the result of reduced demand for
imported labor on this side of the border, tougher border
security, changing demographics as Mexico’s population ages, and
greater optimism about the country’s future.  As a rapidly modernizing nation whose economy is deeply
enmeshed with that of the U.S., Mexico continues to represent
plenty of untapped potential. But Americans have to realize that
the story of Mexico is neither all bad nor all good. It’s
counterproductive to insist on such a caricature. Mexico’s
subpar education system is holding it back, and the nation’s
rule of law remains underdeveloped. Public institutions are
weak, and many local and state governments have been far slower
than their federal counterpart to embrace a democratic,
transparent culture. The judiciary continues to be a disgrace.
Corruption is the cancer threatening the long-term viability of
the modern Mexico Friedman has discovered.  Corruption  Just as the U.S. should appreciate Mexico’s progress, it
shouldn’t turn a blind eye to its neighbor’s problems, which
pose a threat to North America’s broader competitiveness.
Mexicans need U.S. support and engagement, and the emergence of
a true North American common market, to help overcome a
tradition of corruption and impunity that benefits only the
nation’s ruling elites. Mexico’s economic stability stands atop
a weak legal and political foundation; it could all come undone
again if that foundation isn’t shored up.  The Obama administration should embrace and proclaim Nafta
as a strategic cornerstone of both economic and foreign policy
in the coming years. The rest of us can also play a role in
strengthening ties with our indispensable partner: We can follow
the president’s lead, disregard the excessively alarmist
coverage of the past, and head south for a visit.  (Andres Martinez is editorial director of the  New America
Foundation .)  Editor: Romesh Ratnesar  To contact the writer of this column:
Josh Tyrangiel in  New York  at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  