-- Medicaid Expansion May Not Improve Health of Poor in U.S.
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2013-05-01T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/medicaid-expansion-may-not-improve-health-of-poor-in-u-s-.html
Expanding Medicaid plans for the poor
won’t always improve the physical health of enrollees, though it
may save them from financial ruin, a study in  Oregon  found.  Lower depression rates, greater health-care utilization and
the elimination of catastrophic medical expenses have been the
primary benefits of an experimental expansion of Medicaid that
began in Oregon in 2008, according to a study released today by
 Harvard University  and  Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
researchers. The expansion failed to improve chronic health
conditions such as hypertension and high cholesterol.  “The purpose of insurance is not to just get you access to
health-care, it’s to protect you from financial ruin if you have
an expensive health condition,” said Katherine Baicker,  a
Harvard health economics professor and a study author. “That is
something I think is wildly under appreciated.”  President  Barack Obama  has run into opposition from
Republican governors over his plans to expand the federal-state
Medicaid health programs, a key component of the Affordable Care
Act’s promise to broaden medical coverage to about 27 million
people by 2017. The results of today’s study can be used by
either supporters or detractors, Baicker said.  “It puts to rest the idea that Medicaid doesn’t help
beneficiaries,” she said. “It also puts to rest the notion
that expanding Medicaid will improve access to health-care by so
much” that you reduce chronic disease and save money.  Oregon’s Health Insurance  Experiment  chose 30,000 residents
of almost 90,000 who signed up to receive Medicaid. By comparing
the health records of 6,387 people who won a lottery in 2008 to
be included in the experimental expansion, and 5,842 who didn’t
get access, researchers were able to get a first-of-its-kind
randomized study.  Catastrophic Costs  Catastrophic medical costs, defined as bills exceeding 30
percent of income “were nearly eliminated,” for Medicaid
participants, according to the study published by the New
England Journal of Medicine. This group was also more likely to
be diagnosed with diabetes and take medication for the chronic
disease. Still, average blood glucose levels in both groups were
comparable.  Annual medical spending per patient increased $1,172 in the
Medicaid group, or about 35 percent more than the control group.  The  Supreme Court  ruled June 28 that the Affordable Care
Act’s expansion of Medicaid is optional for states. Under the
law, the program would grow to cover most American adults
earning close to poverty wages, who generally aren’t eligible
now unless they have children. Twenty states, all with
Republican governors, had said they won’t expand their programs,
according to data as of April 16 from the  Kaiser Family
Foundation , a nonprofit health research group based in  Menlo
Park ,  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  