-- Edward Feigeles, Ex-Lehman, Morgan Stanley Executive, Dies at 58
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-05-01T16:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/edward-feigeles-ex-lehman-morgan-stanley-executive-dies-at-58.html
Edward Feigeles, who led private
wealth management divisions at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., has died. He was 58.  He died on April 29 at NYU Langone Medical Center in New
York after a brief illness, his wife, Kathryn Green, said today
in an interview. He was a resident of  Manhattan .  Under Feigeles’s direction, Lehman’s 500-broker Private
Client Services group became “the industry’s top high-net-worth
business,” with average broker production of $1.8 million,
compared with an industry average of less than $500,000, the
company said in a 2002 news release. The year before, the group
had produced more than $700 million in revenue.  Feigeles, a managing director, had joined New York-based
Lehman in 1996 with a mission to create the “prototypical”
money-management office for wealthy clients by integrating
private-client services with the fixed income and equity units,
 American Banker  reported. Within a year he was overseeing about
300 brokers handling more than $5 billion in assets from 24
offices worldwide, the newspaper said.  During his time as global head of private client services,
Lehman in 2000 added 130 brokers by buying the private client
group of SG Cowen, a unit of  France ’s Societe Generale SA.  “There is no alternative for personal relationships when
it comes to dealing with the wealthy of the world,” Feigeles
said at the time. “When it comes to the Internet, we haven’t
been hurt by it.”  Career Path  Feigeles joined Lehman from New York-based Morgan Stanley,
which had made him a managing director in 1995. He oversaw
private client services and middle-market sales for Morgan
Stanley U.S. until the early 1990s, when he began overseeing
that work for Morgan Stanley International in Europe and  Asia ,
according to a  biography  on the website of Liquid Holdings Group
LLC, a trading software company where he served as a director
since November.  He left Lehman in 2005, three years before the firm filed
for bankruptcy, and became a partner at hedge fund BDI Capital
Management LLC in 2007. He then was a partner at Centurion
Trading Partners, leading its early-stage investing division,
Centurion Venture Partners,  according  to that firm.  Edward Mitchell Feigeles was born on June 18, 1954, in New
York, the son of Seymour and Sybil Feigeles.  He earned a bachelor’s degree from the  University of
Maryland .  Feigeles and his wife had three children, Kara, Sam and
Gregory. He also had three brothers, Michael, William and David,
according to a death  notice  in the  New York  Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  