-- EFG-Hermes Plans Asset Sales After Deal With QInvest Collapses
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-05-02T03:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/efg-hermes-deal-with-qinvest-collapses-on-egypt-regulator-delays.html
EFG-Hermes Holding SAE,  Egypt ’s
largest investment bank, said it will sell assets and cut costs
after an agreement to create the largest Arab investment bank
with Qatar’s QInvest LLC collapsed because of regulatory delays.  The Cairo and Doha-based banks said late yesterday the
planned joint venture ended after they reached a 12-month
deadline without approval from the Egyptian Financial Services
Authority. EFG will sell “non-core” assets and return most of
the cash to shareholders as it seeks to cut costs by 35 percent.  “It will be hard for QInvest to build an investment
banking platform that the EFG deal could have offered,”  Jaap Meijer , Dubai-based director of equity research at Arqaam
Capital, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “EFG will now
try to protect its bottom line, while QInvest will probably
focus on its key strength, which is commercial banking.”  QInvest, a unit of Qatar Islamic Bank, and EFG-Hermes
planned to create a bank with operations in the  Middle East ,
Africa and  Turkey , as well as southern and southeastern  Asia .
The joint venture plan included EFG Hermes’ main investment
banking, asset management and brokerage businesses, and excluded
its private equity and Credit Libanais SAL units.  Regulator Approvals  EFG-Hermes said last month it had submitted the necessary
documents to the Supervisory Authority on Feb. 3 to secure its
approval. The Cairo-based regulator hasn’t given reasons for not
backing the deal and Chairman Ashraf El-Sharkawy didn’t respond
to a call seeking comment yesterday. The two sides had received
approval from countries including  Saudi Arabia , the  United Arab
Emirates , Qatar, and Jordan.  Egypt has experienced an unstable transition to democracy
after the 2011 uprising that toppled President  Hosni Mubarak .
EFG-Hermes’ co-CEOs, Yasser Al Mallawany and Hassan Heikal, are
defendants alongside former Mubarak’s two sons, Alaa and Gamal,
and five others on charges of illicit gains related to the 2007
sale of El Watany Bank of Egypt. The trial began in July 2012.
EFG’ investor-relations manager, Hanzada Nessim, said in March
there was “no relation” between the trial and the delays.  The Egyptian stock market was closed for a holiday
yesterday. EFG-Hermes shares fell 1 percent to 9.95 pounds at
the close in Cairo, bringing their retreat this year to 9.6
percent, twice the drop in the benchmark EGX 30 Index.  EFG-Hermes plans to sell “non-core” assets as it seeks to
cut costs to 500 million Egyptian pounds ($72 million) in 2014
from an estimated 780 million pounds in 2013.  Shed Assets  “We aim to shed those assets over the coming period and
return most of the cash generated from those sales to our
shareholders, all while preserving a well-capitalized balance
sheet,” as part of plans to focus on shareholder returns, it
said. The investment bank had planned to pay stockowners a four-
pound cash dividend a share as part of the QInvest deal.  QInvest last month named Michael Katounas as head of
 investment banking . Katounas was previously with Credit Suisse
Group AG. QInvest also in March hired Nasser Mahmoud, who
previously worked with QNB Capital and  Barclays Capital , for its
investment banking team.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  or Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  