-- Electric-Car Maker Coda Files for Bankruptcy to Seek Sale
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n   a n d   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-05-01T22:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/electric-car-maker-coda-files-for-bankruptcy-to-seek-sale-1-.html
Coda Holdings Inc., parent of the
electric-car maker backed by billionaire  Philip Falcone , filed
for bankruptcy and will seek to sell its assets to a group led
by a  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  unit for $25 million.  The Los Angeles-based company, whose Coda Automotive unit
also sought court protection, listed assets of as much as $50
million and debt of as much as $100 million today in the Chapter
11 filing in Wilmington,  Delaware . The company said it intends
to sell its assets within 45 days.  Coda’s bankruptcy is at least the third by an electric
vehicle-related company in just over a year.  A123 Systems Inc. (AONEQ) ,
a battery supplier to Fisker Automotive Inc., another
California-based maker of electric cars, filed for bankruptcy in
October. Ener1 Inc., also a maker of batteries for electric
cars, entered bankruptcy in January 2012.  While A123 and an Ener1 unit received U.S. government
funds, Coda didn’t. The company applied for a $334 million loan
in May 2010 and withdrew the request in April 2012.  “After two years of uncertainty, we needed to move forward
with our business plan independent of the loan,” Matt Sloustcher, a Coda spokesman, said in an e-mail today.  Production Delays  Coda was forced to seek  bankruptcy protection  because of
production delays, insufficient capital to market and sell its
sedan, and slow growth for the electric-vehicle market, which it
blames on the scarcity of charging stations, according to a
declaration by Chief Restructuring Officer John P. Madden. Coda
will focus on its energy-storage business, Chief Executive
Officer Phil Murtaugh said in a statement today.  Sales of the Coda sedan, built off China-based Hafei Motor
Co.’s Saibao platform, fell short of expectations, with fewer
than 100 units sold since entering the market in March 2012,
according to court papers. Complications adapting the sedan to
an electric platform and meeting U.S. regulatory standards
delayed production until a year after originally anticipated in
November 2011.  Closely held Coda, which counted former U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Henry Paulson  as an investor, pitched its vehicle as a
“real world” car with better range, battery-pack life and
acceleration than competitors such as  Nissan Motor (7201)  Co.’s Leaf,
 Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Focus EV and  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211) ’s i-MiEV
hatchbacks. The compact, which cost $37,250 before a $7,500 U.S.
tax credit, averages 88 miles (142 kilometers) per charge and
can travel as far as 125 miles, according to U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency estimates.  Shrinking Market  About 87,000 electric and plug-in hybrid cars have been
sold in the U.S., with two years left to achieve President
 Barack Obama ’s target of 1 million sales for the industry.  While sales of battery-only and plug-in hybrids are rising,
the pace trails optimistic goals set by advocates, including
Nissan and  Renault SA (RNO)  Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn , who
predicted electric vehicles would be 10 percent of global sales
by 2020.  U.S. sales of rechargeable autos totaled 50,288 last year,
led by  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Volt plug-in, up from 17,805 in
2011, based on data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales for the segment
totaled 17,842 in this year’s first quarter.     Electric-only
vehicle sales totaled 13,542 in 2012, a 34 percent increase over
the 10,104 sold in 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  A U.S. congressional committee is investigating the Energy
Department’s loans for alternative-fuel vehicles after the
manufacturers have been plagued by financial problems.  A123, based in Waltham, Massachusetts, used $132 million in
federal grant money to build two plants in Michigan. Fisker
fired three quarters of its work force last month and missed its
first payment on a U.S. government loan.  Equity Investors  Coda raised about $344 million in equity investments since
its founding, according to court documents. Investors included
New World Strategic Investment Ltd., Indus Capital and  Och-Ziff
Capital Management Group LLC (OZM) , Aeris Capital, Angeleno Group LLC,
Falcone’s Harbinger Capital Partners LLC and Riverstone Holdings
LLC, Coda said in 2011.  The company owes about $77.5 million in notes and loans,
according to court papers. Coda owes Hafei, its biggest
unsecured creditor, $2.7 million. Coda and its affiliates
collectively owe about $17 million to their 30 largest unsecured
creditors.  A group led by a Fortress affiliate agreed to provide a $5
million delayed-draw loan to help fund operation through the
sale process, according to court papers. The Fortress unit will
act as the lead bidder at a court-supervised auction and will
buy the company for $25 million if no other competing offers
surface.  The group may bid debt rather than cash. Coda requested a
May 16 hearing to set guidelines to govern the sale process. The
company wants a deadline of May 31 for competing offers, a June
3 auction if other bids are received, and a June 6 hearing to
seek approval of the sale.  California Assembly  The Coda sedan’s chassis is built in China through a
partnership with Hafei, with final assembly in Benicia,
 California . Lithium-iron-phosphate cells for its 1,000-pound
(454-kilogram) battery pack are from LIO Energy Systems, a joint
venture of Coda and China’s Tianjin Lishen Battery.  Coda said last year that it would produce battery-powered
autos with China’s  Great Wall Motor Co. (2333)  that would be sold under
the U.S. company’s name starting in 2014.  The case is In re Coda Automotive, 13-bk-11154,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net ;
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  