-- Empire State IPO Opponents Appeal $100 Buyout Ruling
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-05-01T15:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/empire-state-ipo-opponents-appeal-100-buyout-ruling.html
Investors opposed to a buyout proposal
to take the Empire State Building public in what may be the
second-biggest initial public offering of a U.S. real estate
investment trust asked a state appeals court to block the deal.  New York  State Supreme Court Justice O. Peter Sherwood in
Manhattan yesterday rejected their request he block the buyout
provision, which would pay them $100 per share. They argued it
violates the state’s limited liability corporation law
requirement that they get “fair value” for their assets.  Sherwood held that the investors aren’t members of Empire
State Building Associates and thus not entitled to rights under
the law.  “The supreme court committed reversible error by
erroneously applying and disregarding the law and facts,” the
investors said in a filing last night with the court’s appellate
division in Manhattan.  Opposing investors have claimed the $100 buyout provision
coerces them to vote in favor of the REIT. They said their units
are potentially worth more than $300,000 each. A REIT conversion
would mean giving up a reliable income stream that may rise as
renovations at the skyscraper are finished, the dissidents
argued.  Malkin Holdings LLC, supervisor of the building, has said
its plan would give unit-holders liquidity, regular dividends
and greater growth opportunities. Some investors are also
questioning the more than $300 million in shares the Malkins
would potentially receive under the deal.  Iconic Skyscraper  At the end of 2012, the iconic skyscraper was about 69
percent occupied, with such tenants as  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and Coty Inc., according to the
building’s annual report.  Both opponents and supporters of the IPO are battling for
the favor of the few remaining undecided votes.  Malkin needs support from 80 percent of shares. As of April
3, it had 75 percent.  Peter Malkin , the firm’s chairman, and his son Anthony, its
president, said the shareholders representing about 75 percent
of the skyscraper’s 3,300 ownership units had voted in favor of
the buyout. They have been calling holdouts individually to urge
their support.  Empire State Realty Trust Inc., as the new company would be
called, is seeking to raise about $1 billion for the REIT, which
would include the 102-story tower and 20 other properties the
Malkin family supervises. Only the 2006 debut of  Santa Monica ,
California-based Douglas Emmett Inc. was bigger in the industry,
at $1.6 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  Five Cases  Investors last year filed five class actions, or group
lawsuits, accusing the company and Malkin of breaching their
fiduciary duty. The trust announced a $55 million settlement of
the cases in November.  Sherwood gave preliminary approval to the settlement in
February and denied a motion by Andrew Penson, owner of
 Manhattan ’s Grand Central Terminal, and the other investors
opposing the deal to intervene in the case.  Sherwood did allow them to argue their claim that the $100
buyout provision is illegal. A final hearing on the settlement
is set for tomorrow.  Stephen Meister, an attorney for the opponents, said
yesterday he would seek a stay of the proceedings. He declined
to comment today on when that would be.  The Malkins said last month they would leave voting open
until Sherwood rules on the $100-a-share buyout or until
tomorrow’s hearing on the class-action settlement.  Opponents can avoid being bought out if they change their
vote to “yes” within 10 days after receiving written notice
that the 80 percent approval has been achieved, a time frame
Meister called “impermissibly short.”  The case is Meyers v.  Empire State Realty Trust Inc. (ESB) ,
650607/2012, New York state Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  