-- Energy Makes Up Half of Desalination Plant Costs: Study
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-05-01T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/energy-makes-up-half-of-desalination-plant-costs-study.html
Energy is the largest single expense
for desalination plants, accounting for as much as half of the
costs to make drinking water from the sea, according to a
report.  Desalination plants on average use about 15,000 kilowatt-
hours of power for every million gallons of fresh water that’s
produced, the Pacific Institute said today in a report. In
comparison, wastewater reuse draws as much as 8,300 kilowatt-
hours of power for the same volume and importing a similar
amount of water into  Southern California  requires as much as
14,000 kilowatt-hours of electricity, it said.  There are  17 desalination plants  proposed in California and
two in  Mexico  to help supply area homes and businesses,
according to Heather Cooley, co-director of the institute’s
water program. While the projects may ease water strains for
area utilities, they’ll increase suppliers’ exposure to variable
energy prices, she said by phone.  “While you may be improving your water reliability, you
may be increasing your vulnerability to energy price changes
over time,” Cooley said.  A 25 percent increase in energy expenses would raise the
cost of producing water by about 9 percent and 15 percent at
reverse osmosis and thermal desalination plants respectively,
according to the report. Electricity prices in  California  are
projected to rise by about 27 percent from 2008 to 2020 in
inflation-adjusted dollars as power grid infrastructure is
maintained or replaced, capacity is added and more renewable
energy is integrated.  Poseidon Plant  Poseidon Resources’s Carlsbad desalination plant in
Southern California where construction began this year is one of
the 17 projects and will be the Western Hemisphere’s largest
when completed.  San Diego ’s water authority has agreed to buy
the water for 30 years. JPMorgan Chase & Co. last year led a
$922 million public-private bond offering for the plant.  The high energy requirements for desalination raise
concerns about emissions, Cooley said. “If we are dramatically
increasing our production from seawater desalination, that could
dramatically increase our greenhouse-gas emissions at a time
when we’re trying to reduce them.”  Producers can mitigate those effects by incorporating
renewable energy and energy-efficiency measures or purchasing
 carbon offsets , she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  