-- Merck Cuts Profit Forecast as Buyback Boosted $15 Billion
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-05-01T20:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/merck-cuts-profit-forecast-while-boosting-buyback-by-15-billion.html
Merck & Co. (MRK) , facing generic
competition to what was once its best-selling drug, cut its
full-year guidance in anticipation of lower sales and said it
would start buying back as much as $15 billion in shares.  Merck’s stock fell the most in three months. Earnings
excluding one-time items for 2013 are now projected to be $3.45
to $3.55 a share, the  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based
drugmaker said today in a statement. That’s 15 cents lower than
the outlook given in February. First-quarter net income declined
to $1.59 billion, or 52 cents a share, from $1.74 billion, or 56
cents, a year earlier, the company said.  Merck has been eliminating jobs since the 2009 acquisition
of Schering-Plough and has been trying to boost demand for other
products after asthma drug Singulair began facing generic
competition in August. Singulair sales fell 75 percent to $337
million last quarter, while Januvia, a diabetes treatment that
is now Merck’s top product, dropped 4 percent to $884 million.  “It doesn’t look pretty,” wrote  Mark Schoenebaum , an
analyst with International Strategy & Investment Group, in a
note to clients. The share buyback “is now the second ‘bone’
that management has thrown to the angry shareholder mob.”  First-quarter  earnings , excluding one-time items, were 85
cents a share, beating by 6 cents the average estimate of 17
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The earnings were helped by a
$439 million, or 6 cents a share, tax benefit. Unfavorable rates
of foreign currency exchange cut sales by 2 percent, Merck said.  Stock Drops  Merck shares fell 2.8 percent to $45.69 at the close in  New
York . The stock has gained 16 percent in the last 12 months.
Merck will buy back $7.5 billion shares in 12 months, with
another $7.5 billion available, the company said.  “We fell short of our expectations for top-line
performance,” Merck Chief Executive Officer Ken Frazier said on
a conference call today. The results “are not indicative of the
future opportunities of our business,” he said. The company
said the lackluster sales of Januvia were caused by wholesalers
cutting inventory.  It has been a disappointing quarter for U.S. drugmakers,
with shares of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and  Eli
Lilly & Co. (LLY)  all falling after reporting results.  R&D Replacement  Merck replaced its head of research and development, Peter Kim, last month with  Roger Perlmutter , formerly of  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) 
The change came after setbacks including the company’s decision
in December to end development of a cholesterol drug and its
failure to win approval of a drug to slow the growth of sarcoma.  Perlmutter said Merck’s R&D plans would get a thorough
review. “You bring in a new guy and a fresh pair of eyes, and
there are going to be some changes that take place,” he said on
a conference call today. That could include accelerating some
programs, cutting others, and looking for new assets outside the
company, he said.  “In my view, I always want more,” Perlmutter said. “It’s
never good enough. I want more products, and I want those
products to be the very best possible. I’m not so concerned
about where those products come from.” He plans to announce a
first round of changes in the next three to six months, he said.  “The news that head of R&D Peter Kim is leaving the
company supports the idea that Merck has lost its way to some
degree in terms of R&D,”  Timothy Anderson , an analyst with
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. who has an outperform rating on the
stock, said in a note to clients before the earnings
announcement. “This is problematic for the stock because
investors expect Merck to be a best-in-class R&D organization.”  Earlier Announcement  Merck had previously downplayed results for the first
quarter, saying in February that 2013 profit would fall as
Singulair faced generic competitors. The company also announced
that first-quarter earnings excluding certain items would be 76
cents to 78 cents, 5 cents lower than originally projected,
because of the devaluation of the Venezuelan currency.  Sales fell short of analysts’ estimates for $11.1 billion,
dropping 9 percent to $10.67 billion. Sales of drugs, Merck’s
biggest business, fell 12 percent to $8.89 billion.  The company said it  expects  full-year sales to be 3 percent
to 4 percent lower than 2012. It also expects research and
development spending to rise, and its  tax rate  to be 22 percent
to 23 percent, up from 21 percent to 23 percent.  The new share repurchase amounts to 11 percent of Merck’s
 market capitalization  as of yesterday’s close and gives the
company a total of $16.1 billion to use for buybacks, including
an older repurchase program.  “This share repurchase program, combined with our strong
dividend, reinforces our continued commitment to delivering
increased value to shareholders,” Frazier said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  