-- MetLife Posts $986 Million Profit, Beats Estimates
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-05-01T21:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/metlife-posts-986-million-profit-beats-estimates.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, reported a first-quarter profit as Chief Executive
Officer Steven Kandarian expands outside the U.S.  Net income  was $986 million compared with a loss of $144
million a year earlier that was tied to MetLife’s narrowing
credit spreads, the New York-based insurer said today in a
statement. Operating profit was $1.48 a share, beating the $1.30
 average estimate  of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Kandarian, 61, is searching for customers in faster-growing
economies and reducing expenses as slow expansion in the
company’s main markets weighs on results. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index rose 10 percent in the quarter, helping units that
sell retirement products and cushioning the damage from low
interest rates on investment income.  “When equity markets are strong, they get a boost,” Sean Dargan, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., said in an interview
before results were announced. “On the interest-rate front,
they haven’t gotten any real help.”  MetLife has  advanced  17 percent this year on the  New York 
Stock Exchange. The shares added 60 cents to $39 in late trading
at 4:16 p.m., after results were announced. The firm lifted its
dividend for the first time since 2007 last week after selling
operations including residential mortgage origination to end its
status as a bank overseen by the Federal Reserve.  Currency Fluctuations  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , No. 2 U.S. life insurer, also
posted results that exceeded analysts’ estimates. Operating
profit of $2.28 a share beat by about 42 cents the average
estimate of analysts. The  Newark , New Jersey-based insurer
posted a net loss of $706 million in the first quarter, fueled
by fluctuations in the yen.  In Asia, MetLife’s operating profit rose 11 percent to $333
million as business expanded in South Korea, Australia and
 India . MetLife purchased American Life Insurance Co., with about
12,500 employees and operations in 50 countries, from insurer
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  in 2010 to build operations
beyond the U.S.  Kandarian agreed in February to buy Chilean pension
provider AFP Provida SA in a $2 billion deal to add fee income
in Latin America. MetLife has been seeking to add sources of
income that don’t depend on returns from stocks and bonds.  Book value , a measure of assets minus liabilities, fell to
$57.03 a share as of March 31 from $57.17 three months earlier.  Net investment income, rose to $5.13 billion from $5.08
billion a year earlier. Variable investments, which include
private equity and hedge funds, added $337 million before taxes,
up from $239 million a year earlier.  Expense Cuts  In the Americas unit, led by William Wheeler, operating
earnings rose to $1.3 billion from $1.16 billion a year earlier,
driven by higher investment income and fees in the retail
business, as well as expense cuts.  The insurer has set a goal of $600 million in expense
savings, mostly in the U.S. MetLife is shifting jobs to North
Carolina from sites in the U.S. Northeast and  California , the
company and state officials said in March.  MetLife has scaled back from some capital-intensive
products such as variable annuities to limit risks from falling
stocks, and is working to sell more protection products such as
accident-and-health coverage. The firm is targeting return on
equity of at least 12 percent by 2016, compared with an
operating ROE of about 11 percent last year.  Operating profit in the  Europe , Middle East and Africa
region increased 21 percent to $87 million, amid growth in some
 emerging markets , the insurer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  