-- Ex-Executive in Connecticut Charged With Indonesian Bribe
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-05-01T21:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/ex-executive-in-connecticut-charged-with-indonesian-bribe.html
A former executive of a U.S.
subsidiary of a French power and transportation company was
charged in  Connecticut  with bribing Indonesian officials to
obtain contracts.  William Pomponi, 65, a former vice president of sales for
the Connecticut-based unit, was charged yesterday in federal
court with conspiring to violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act and with  money laundering , according to a statement by the
 U.S. Attorney’s Office  in Connecticut.  Charges against Frederic Pierucci, a former head of global
sales for the Connecticut company, and a guilty plea in
connection with the bribery by another former sales executive,
David Rothschild, were announced April 16 by the U.S. The U.S.
Attorney’s Office declined to name the French parent company.
When Pierucci was charged, it was identified as  Alstom SA. (ALO)   Alstom SA operates a subsidiary, Alstom Power Co., in
Windsor, Connecticut, according to its website.  Pomponi and the others were charged with paying bribes to a
member of the Indonesian Parliament and officials at the state-
owned electricity company to secure a $118 million contract to
provide power to its citizens.  The conspirators hired consultants to funnel “hundreds of
thousands of dollars” to the recipients of the bribes,
according to the statement.  From 2005 to 2009, employees of the Connecticut subsidiary
transferred more than $666,000 to a consultant who deposited the
money in a Maryland bank, according to the complaint.  Indonesian Bank  More than $360,000 of that amount was later sent to a bank
account in  Indonesia  that prosecutors said belonged to the
government official who “had influence over the award of
contracts” by the state-owned utility.  Tim Brown , an Alstom spokesman, said at the time Pierucci
was charged that the company “has been working constructively
with the  Department of Justice  for the last two years to address
any allegations of past misconduct.” Alstom is based in
Levallois-Perret,  France .  Each money-laundering charge carries a maximum penalty of
20 years in prison plus fines.  The case is U.S. v. Pierucci, 3:12-cr-00238, U.S. District
Court, District of Connecticut (New Haven).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York 
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at  mhytha @bloomberg.net 