-- Ex-GM Engineer’s Husband Gets 3 Years for Secrets Theft
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   S t e v e   R a p h a e l
-- 2013-05-01T19:59:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/ex-gm-engineer-s-husband-gets-3-years-for-secrets-theft.html
A former  General Motors Co. (GM)  engineer’s
husband was sentenced to three years in prison for stealing
hybrid technology trade secrets from the carmaker to help
develop vehicles in  China .  Yu Qin, the husband of the ex-GM employee, was accused of
using the Detroit-based carmaker’s data to seek business
ventures or employment with its competitors, including China’s
Chery Automobile Co. His wife, Shanshan Du, who will also be
sentenced today, was accused of copying GM’s private information
on the motor control of hybrids and providing documents to her
husband.  “This is an extremely serious case involving a serious
crime,” U.S. District Judge Marianne O. Battani said at the
sentencing hearing in federal court in  Detroit  today. “It is a
crime in which our whole community, our whole economic structure
is a victim.”  Qin was convicted in November of three counts of  trade
secrets  theft, three of  wire fraud  and one of obstruction of
justice. Du was convicted on three trade-secret counts.  “This is all my fault,” Qin said at the hearing. “I want
to take full responsibility. I want to apologize to the court
for all the trouble I caused.”  $40 Million  The secrets at issue were worth more than $40 million to
General Motors, prosecutors said in a presentencing memorandum
filed last week. The U.S. asked Battani to sentence Qin and Du
to as long as 10 years and a month in prison.  The defendants, who had pleaded not guilty, said the
information didn’t consist of trade secrets, wasn’t stolen and
was useless for other companies. They sought probation.  The case is one of more than a dozen brought in the past
three years by the U.S. Justice Department alleging defendants
of Chinese ancestry or citizenship sought to take trade secrets
from U.S.-based companies for use by the Chinese government or
businesses. Qin and Du are both U.S. citizens.  The case is U.S. v. Qin, 10-cr-20454, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  Michigan  (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Raphael in federal court in Detroit at 
 sraphael5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  