-- Ex-Rubicon CIOs Start Canosa Fund With as Much as $300 Million
-- B y   C h r i s   L a r s o n   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-05-01T14:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/ex-rubicon-cios-start-canosa-fund-with-as-much-as-300-million.html
Tim Attias and Santiago Alarco, two
former executives at  Rubicon Fund Management LLP , raised as much
as $300 million for their own hedge fund, almost a year after
settling a lawsuit brought by their former employer, two people
with knowledge of the talks said.  Canosa Capital LLP began trading today with backing from
 Brummer & Partners ,  Sweden ’s largest hedge-fund manager, said
the people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private. Raza Khan, Canosa’s chief operating officer, confirmed
the fund began trading today. Early investors will be charged a
1 percent management fee and 20 percent performance fee, less
than the 2 percent firms typically charge, he said by telephone.  The so-called global macro fund will seek to profit from
broad economic trends by trading everything from stocks to bonds
to currencies, with a focus on fixed-income and foreign
exchange. Attias, 47, and Alarco, 49, were joint chief
investment officers and ran Rubicon’s global macro fund until
leaving at the start of 2011. Rubicon’s fund climbed 15 percent
in 2010, beating the  average  4.4 percent gain for macro funds
that year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Rubicon sued the two for more than 100 million pounds ($156
million) after they left the firm, saying they conspired to
start a new firm while one of them was still working at the
London-based hedge fund. The pair settled the lawsuit a year
ago, agreeing to pay an undisclosed sum.  Brummer’s Multi-Strategy Fund is providing most of Canosa’s
assets, while Brummer & Partners is taking a stake in the fund
management company, the people said. Stockholm-based Brummer
manages about $16 billion, making it one of  Europe ’s largest
hedge fund managers. Officials at Brummer declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Larson in London at 
 clarson22@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  