-- Mexico’s Record Foreclosures Impeding Home Ownership: Mortgages
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-05-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/mexico-s-record-foreclosures-impeding-home-ownership-mortgages.html
Arturo Sandoval, a 25-year-old
homeowner in one of Mexico’s low-income developments outside the
capital, commutes two hours each way to his job at a Mexico City
soap factory.  In the Parque San Mateo community where Sandoval bought his
home from builder  Desarrolladora Homex SAB (HOMEX*)  for about 350,000
pesos ($29,000), neighbors play soccer in the street between
rows of abandoned properties. His commute starts with a van to
the station, then a bus into the city. Whenever he works late,
he often misses the last van and has to walk the final stretch.  Life in the housing development “isn’t everything they
said it would be,” he said.  San Mateo’s deserted homes are evidence of the exodus from
commuter towns that sprang up across Mexico during the last six-
year presidential administration as a record 3 million
government-backed mortgages and housing credits helped turn
builders into billionaires. Now, with foreclosures at a record,
President Enrique Pena Nieto’s five-month-old government is
trying to reverse course on urban sprawl by shifting subsidies
to encourage apartment development in cities. Builders that
specialized in the old strategy are struggling to adapt.  Homebuilder Defaults  Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB (URBI*) , based in Mexicali, and Mexico
City-based Corp. Geo SAB defaulted on bond payments last month,
and both say they’re considering restructuring debt. Urbi’s  cash 
and cash equivalents fell 95 percent to 116 million pesos ($9.5
million) in the first quarter from the end of 2012, while Geo’s
cash fell 84 percent to 371.4 million pesos.  Homex, Mexico’s biggest homebuilding company by revenue,
sold its stakes in two prisons to avoid following peers into
default. Its cash plummeted 86 percent to 322.7 million pesos as
of March 31 from the end of last year.  Javier Gayol, a housing analyst at Corporativo GBM SAB,
Mexico’s biggest brokerage by volume, said the government’s
shift in focus to city development is the right move for
homebuyers, even as dwindling cash prompts him to recommend
selling Urbi, Geo and Homex stock.  “In terms of the consumer, the client, the society, the
best thing you can do is to reorganize the urban sprawl and
focus on sustainable growth,” he said in an April 29 telephone
interview from Mexico City. “You’re witnessing the unraveling
of something that should have been foreseen more than two years
ago -- or if you delve deeper, even further back yet.”  Record Foreclosures  Home repossessions more than doubled last year to a record
43,853 from 2011, according to the National Workers’ Housing
Fund Institute, or Infonavit, the state-backed lender
responsible for about 70 percent of mortgages in Mexico.  The wave of home desertions is making life progressively
worse for residents who stay in the community, said Sandoval,
the  San Mateo  resident. While some houses have been turned into
makeshift businesses -- nail salons, stationary stores, an
Internet cafe -- many other forsaken buildings sit idle, and he
worries about the safety of his three-year-old son as criminals
move in on unattended property.  A banner strung up between lines of row homes warns of
vigilante justice against offenders -- “Parque San Mateo: He
who is caught stealing shall be lynched.”  For at least a decade before the industry’s unraveling,
Mexican homebuilders had been luring Wall Street money, with at
least $3 billion in foreign bond sales and three initial public
offerings since 2004, while government representatives joined
builders on trips from  New York  to  London  in pursuit of funding.  ‘Government Support’  With U.S.  home prices  at six-year lows in 2009, a Mexican
National Housing Commission  presentation  in New York that year
described how  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy was
different. Investors could count on “strong federal government
support” for the industry, and their money would help meet a
housing deficit of as much as 6 million homes, the slide show
said. As the communities multiplied, Homex shares  quadrupled .  At its peak share price, the stake of Urbi Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Cuauhtemoc Perez Roman grew to more than
$1 billion. The family of Homex Chairman and founder Eustaquio
Tomas de Nicolas Gutierrez had a stake that surpassed $1 billion
less than four years after the company went public.  Urban Policy  “You can’t separate Infonavit or the National Housing
Commission from these policies,” Alejandro Nieto Enriquez, head
of the government’s housing policy body since President Pena
Nieto took office last year, said in an April 29 phone interview
from  Mexico  City. “But that doesn’t mean in any way that the
companies didn’t see this coming, that the policy for urban
development couldn’t go on like that.”  A spokeswoman with the  National Action Party , which ruled
Mexico for 12 years before the return last year of the
 Institutional Revolutionary Party , didn’t respond to a request
for comment on the previous administration’s housing policy.  Marena Rubio, a press official for Homex, didn’t respond to
an e-mail seeking comment on the company’s operations. A phone
call to her office went unanswered. Alejandro Haiducovich, a
spokesman for Geo, declined to comment on the company’s cash
loss and its possible restructuring.  Urbi is adjusting to “liquidity issues, but I want to make
clear that it’s not an issue of insolvency,” David Aguilar, a
company spokesman, said in a telephone interview from Mexicali.  Jim Harper , director of corporate research at BCP
Securities LLC, said  population growth  is helping fuel demand
for homes that makes it unlikely any of the country’s biggest
homebuilders will go out of business, even if they restructure
debt and “shrink dramatically.”  “It’s a period of adjustment,” he said in a phone
interview from Greenwich,  Connecticut . “In the medium- and
long-term I’m actually very bullish on the industry.”  Debt Restructurings  While apartment-focused development in cities will help
prevent further sprawl, GBM’s Gayol said it’s too late to avoid
debt restructuring for the nation’s biggest homebuilders at the
expense of investors.  The fallout is also costing homebuilder industry workers
like Noemi Rodriguez, 38, and her family. The Homex saleswoman
said she’s owed more than 50,000 pesos by the company for
commissions earned and has stopped receiving benefits. Homex’s
Rubio didn’t respond to attempts to confirm.  She said hers is an example of a nationwide failure by
Homex to pay employees that has prompted a rash of lawsuits and
walkouts by disgruntled workers. Only about 10 employees still
show up, even occasionally, to her office on a busy stretch of
highway in Mexico state, just outside the capital, compared with
about 50 two months ago, Rodriguez said.  “I don’t know what’s happening,” Rodriguez, who said she
hasn’t sued and keeps coming to the office amid promises from
administrators and on hopes the Culiacan, Mexico-based company
will turn around. “It’s like we’re dogs. No one has told us
anything.”  Too Big  Rodriguez said she and her husband, Alvaro Calva, 45,
bought a house in Homex’s La Esmeralda development about 55
kilometers from Mexico’s central plaza. Residents there face
water shortages, electricity outages and security concerns due
to vacant or unfinished homes, she said. Calva, who along with
the couple’s 20-year-old son Gabriel is also a Homex sales
representative, said in an interview that the company “can’t
fail because it’s so big.”  The Mexico Habita Index of six builders fell to a record
low yesterday, with Urbi dropping 78 percent this year, Geo
falling 72 percent and Homex retreating 63 percent. Bond prices
for all three companies touched historic lows this month.  Urbi, which is facing lawsuits from Barclays Plc, Credit
Suisse Group AG and  GE Capital  over debts and unmet margin
calls, hired Rothschild to advise it on the possible
restructuring. Geo is working with Fians Capital. Homex says
it’s negotiating with lenders over its bank debt and has no
plans to restructure.  Billionaire  Carlos Slim , the buyer in Homex’s 4 billion
peso asset sale last month, is also the majority owner of Grupo
Financiero Inbursa SAB, its creditor on 1.8 billion pesos of
bank debt outstanding as of the end of 2012.  “Three years ago, these companies already had bad
problems,” Gayol said. “Two years ago it looked really
serious, and by last year the problem was practically
irreparable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  