-- Mexican Peso Declines on U.S. Job Data, Carstens’s Rate Cut Talk
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-05-01T19:34:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/mexican-peso-declines-on-u-s-job-data-carstens-s-rate-cut-talk.html
Mexico ’s peso fell after a report
showing U.S. companies added the fewest number of workers in
seven months added to evidence that economic growth in the Latin
American nation’s biggest trading partner is slowing.  The peso dropped 0.5 percent to 12.1934 per dollar as of
2:16 p.m. in Mexico City. Trading was limited because of a
holiday in Mexico.  U.S. firms added 119,000 jobs to payrolls in April, the
smallest increase since September, figures from the Roseland,
New Jersey-based ADP Research Institute showed. Comments from
Mexican central bank Governor Agustin Carstens on April 29
indicating that policy makers will consider cutting borrowing
costs if inflation slows is also contributing to the peso’s
fall, according to  Eduardo Suarez , a currency strategist at Bank
of Nova Scotia.  “Part of the peso decline is related to the U.S. data,”
Suarez said in a telephone interview from Toronto. “The central
bank has opened the door for further interest rate cuts.”  The peso pared some losses after the U.S. Federal Reserve
said at its policy meeting that it will maintain its bond buying
at a pace of $85 billion a month to stimulate the economy.  The peso may trade in a range between 12 per dollar and
12.31 per dollar in the coming weeks, according to Suarez.  Carstens said in an April 29 interview with Radio Formula
that the central bank would consider lowering the target lending
rate if annual inflation slowed to less than 4 percent, the
upper end of policy makers’ target range. Consumer prices rose
4.72 percent in the 12 months through the first half of April.  The central bank’s board left the target lending  rate  at a
record low 4 percent on April 26 after cutting it by a half-
percentage point on March 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  