-- For Germans There Is No Alternative to the Euro
-- B y   J a n   F .   K a l l m o r g e n
-- 2013-05-01T22:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/for-germans-there-is-no-alternative-to-the-euro.html
(Corrects pesos to pesetas in final paragraph.)  Nobody asked the German people if they
wanted the euro. Now, almost 15 years after  Europe  introduced
its common currency, a new political party has emerged to
campaign for a return to the deutsche mark.  Judging by an  opinion poll  last month,  Alternative for
Germany  has hit a nerve. The party has existed for less than a
month, yet the poll by Infratest Dimap found that 24 percent of
Germans would consider voting for it in September’s federal
elections. Are Germans on their way to rejecting the euro?  The answer isn’t simple or well understood, which is
surprising given  Germany ’s centrality to the euro’s survival and
how much the global economy depends on a healthy resolution to
the currency’s troubles. It starts, however, with the choice
that Germans were never given: whether to abolish their own
currency.  In the 1990s, as preparations were under way to create the
euro, Chancellor Helmut Kohl counted himself lucky that the
German Constitution didn’t allow for referendums. Kohl accepted
the currency union because he saw it as the only way to make the
reunification of East and  West Germany  palatable to the rest of
Europe. The French, in particular, feared the new German state
would be  too powerful . The price they demanded was the euro,
which they saw as a great leap forward in the European Union’s
integration.  Unpopular Euro  Had the German people been asked if they wanted the new
currency, they probably would have said no, because it would
have meant giving up the deutsche mark. Such a rejection would
have upset the deal Europe’s political elite had made on German
reunification, throwing the EU into disarray.  The deutsche mark had almost mythical status in Germany.
After World War II, it became both the instrument and the symbol
of West Germany’s astonishing economic and political comeback.
East Germans, too, developed a special relationship to the d-mark, as it was often known. For them, it came to represent the
affluence and freedom that they were denied as long as the
country was divided.  Can this emotional attachment to the deutsche mark,
combined with Germans’ lack of say over its abolition, explain
Alternative for Germany’s rapid gain in popularity? The same
Infratest Dimap poll suggests that in the Sept. 22 elections,
the party could win more than the 5 percent of the vote needed
to gain seats in the German parliament, taking away vital
support from Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition and perhaps
producing a less pro-euro government.  A little history helps in gauging the party’s support. The
euro got off to a bad start in 1999. Many German shops used the
switch from the deutsche mark to raise prices, giving the new
currency the nickname “teuro,” which translates roughly as
“expensive euro.” During its first months, the euro also fell
sharply against the U.S. dollar, disappointing Germans who had
been proud of the strength of the deutsche mark.  Since 2003, however, the euro has helped Germany transform
itself from the “sick man of Europe” to the economic
powerhouse it is today. Germany regained its competitiveness
through Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder ’s tough structural
policies, which combined radical labor-market reforms and a long
period of moderate wage increases. Yet the country’s economy
also benefited from the euro, because the currency had a much
lower  exchange rate  than the deutsche mark, giving German
companies a considerable edge in global markets. Germany amassed
huge trade surpluses with the economies of southern Europe, in
particular.  Making Peace  As a result, by 2010 Germans had more or less made peace
with their new currency. That changed with the beginning of the
debt crisis, when some of the old skepticism re-emerged. The
news in 2010 that  Greece  had been manipulating its public
finance statistics for years seemed to confirm the prejudices
that many Germans held against southern Europeans. Also, there
were well-justified doubts about the financial viability of the
rescue packages that followed and the feasibility of the reforms
that Greece and other crisis countries agreed to undertake.  Protests became more vocal last summer, when the  European
Central Bank  decided to use expansive monetary policies to
support the crisis countries. Global markets welcomed ECB
President  Mario Draghi ’s move, but fiscally conservative Germans
thought Europe’s central bank was breeding inflation and grossly
exceeding its mandate. Germany’s conservative news media
attacked the bailout plans, and about 200 German economists
signed a  public letter  protesting Merkel’s euro policy.  Almost a year later, economists are again leading an
initiative against Merkel’s policy. This time they are opposing
not just bailout packages but also the euro project in general.
They want to bring back the deutsche mark because they don’t
believe the currency union is sustainable, given the vast
economic differences among its members.  Alternative for Germany is led by a University of Hamburg
 economics professor , Bernd Lucke. “In politics, nothing is
irreversible, and least of all, the euro,” Lucke said at the
party’s inaugural congress on April 14. He described the euro as
“a historic mistake.”  The party is supported by many former members of Merkel’s
conservative  Christian Democratic Union  and would steal votes
from all existing parties, according to the poll data. That
would strengthen those in Merkel’s conservative bloc who are
unhappy with her and could take away enough votes from the
parties now in government to force Merkel into a coalition with
the  Social Democratic Party .  Yet almost the entire political establishment is committed
to keeping the currency union alive. The opposition Social
Democrats and the  Green Party  have voted for every bailout
package to date. It is inconceivable for the overwhelming
majority of German politicians to abandon European integration
and the euro.  Faded Anger  For this to change, there would have to be wider popular
dissatisfaction with the euro -- the kind of anger that existed
when the currency was first born. There are no signs that this
is happening now. An astonishing two-thirds of Germans say they
want to keep the euro, according to an  April 9 poll  by the Forsa
agency.  Alternative for Germany is probably just too radical for
2013. Many Germans would like the EU to adopt a tougher policy
on the euro crisis, to ensure that debtor countries carry out
the changes they have agreed to. But Germans understand that
deutsche marks, pesetas and francs can no longer compete against
 Chinese yuan , U.S. dollars and Brazilian reals.  (Jan F. Kallmorgen is a political analyst and partner of
Bohnen Kallmorgen & Partner BKP, an international public affairs
firm based in Berlin and  Washington . He advises clients on
German politics, the euro crisis and trans-Atlantic relations.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jan F. Kallmorgen at  jk@bohnen-kallmorgen.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net  