-- Franklin Tops Fund Managers on Hasenstab: Riskless Return
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-05-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/franklin-tops-fund-managers-on-hasenstab-riskless-return.html
Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN) , benefiting
from the rising popularity of top-ranked bond manager  Michael Hasenstab , is the best-performing stock in the money-management
business.  Franklin had the best risk-adjusted return in the  Standard
& Poor’s  index of asset managers and custody banks over the past
five years, according to the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING.
The San Mateo, California-based firm had the highest stock gain
and the third-lowest volatility in the group, as investors
flocked to the firm’s top-performing bond funds and helped boost
fees.  Franklin, the owner of the Franklin and Templeton mutual
funds, has seen its mix of assets change from equities to fixed-
income since the 2008 financial crisis as investors shift from
stocks to bonds. Assets in Franklin’s global bond funds more
than quadrupled in the past five years to $227 billion as low
 interest rates  have sent clients in search of higher yields.
Hasenstab, who runs more than $190 billion at Franklin, made a
successful bet on emerging bonds and currencies, turning his
funds into a magnet for cash.  “The world bond category was strong in general, but a lot
of the money flowed to him,” Miriam Sjoblom, an analyst for
Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc ., said in a telephone interview.
“People just piled in.”  Equities Decline  Franklin has been less successful on the equity side as
investors have pulled money from its U.S. stock mutual funds in
each of the past five years, Morningstar data show, even as the
firm has been urging customers to move back into equities. Stock
assets, which accounted for 56 percent of Franklin’s assets five
years ago, now represent about 39 percent.  Franklin rose 1.7 percent, adjusted for price swings, in
the five years ended April 30, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Ameriprise Financial Inc. (AMP) , the Minneapolis-based
 money manager  that has expanded in recent years through
acquisitions including Bank of America Corp.’s investment unit,
ranked second with a 1.3 percent return on a risk-adjusted
basis. New York-based  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest money
manager, placed third with a gain of 1.1 percent.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  Janus Worst  The ranking included 18 of the 20 companies in the Standard
& Poor’s Supercomposite Asset Management & Custody Banks Index.
 Virtus Investment Partners Inc. (VRTS)  and  Financial Engines Inc. (FNGN)  were
not included because they haven’t been publicly traded for five
years.  Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS) , the Denver-based money manager
that has 82 percent of its assets in equity products, including
its signature domestic growth funds, was the worst performer on
an absolute and risk-adjusted basis. The shares fell 67 percent
on a cumulative basis and 1 percent when adjusted for volatility
over the past five years.  Legg Mason Inc., the Baltimore-based asset manager that has
been seeking to reverse redemptions for the past five years, was
the second-worst performer in the ranking, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Johnsons’ Stake  Franklin was founded in 1947 by Rupert Johnson Sr., whose
two sons still control about  one-third of the stock . The company
went public in 1971 at a split-adjusted share price of 2.4
cents, according to company data, which means one dollar
invested at the initial public offering is worth more than
$6,500. The stake held by the two Johnsons is valued at about
$11 billion.  In 1992, Franklin bought Templeton, Galbraith & Hansberger
Ltd., a firm run by well-known global investor Sir John
Templeton, which resulted in the addition of managers including
emerging-market specialist  Mark Mobius . Four years later, it
acquired Heine Securities Corp, adviser to Mutual Series Fund
Inc., from  Michael Price , a successful value investor.  The deals gave Franklin a level of diversification,
including a “global distribution footprint,” that few of its
rivals can match, said  Michael Kim , an analyst with Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP in New York.  At the end of 2012, Franklin reported that 35 percent of
its assets came from investors outside the U.S., up from 25
percent at the end of 2007. Almost 48 percent of the firm’s
sales in 2012 were made in markets other than the U.S., the
company said. At BlackRock, which manages a range of assets from
stocks to bonds to real estate, 39 percent of its assets came
from clients based outside the Americas, while only 31 percent
of revenue came from sales made outside the region, which
includes the U.S., Canada and  Latin America .  ‘First Mover’  “Asset growth was so strong in the States, a lot of firms
just focused here,” Chief Executive Officer Gregory Johnson,
51, said in a telephone interview. Johnson, the grandson of the
company’s founder, said Franklin has competed in many overseas
markets for decades, giving it a “first-mover” advantage over
rivals. In Taiwan, Franklin has built up more than $23 billion
in assets over 27 years, Johnson said.  Franklin’s net income increased 9 percent in the five years
ended Dec. 31, 2012, and more than doubled from a five-year low
at the end of 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
firm, which reported quarterly earnings yesterday, said profit
in the three months ended March 31 rose 14 percent to $572.8
million.  Bonds Dominate  Investors continued to pour money into Franklin’s global
bond funds in 2013, putting $15.3 billion into such products in
the quarter and adding $100 million to taxable U.S. bond funds.
Clients put $700 million into global stock funds, while removing
$500 million from those that invest in U.S. stocks.  While Franklin’s global focus has been a plus in the past
decade, it could prove to be a handicap in coming years as
domestic stocks outperform non-U.S. equities, said William
Smead, CEO of Smead Capital Management Inc. in Seattle where he
oversees $400 million, including Franklin shares.  “In our opinion, they have drunk too much of the
international Kool-Aid,” said Smead.  About 72 percent of Franklin’s $320 billion in stocks were
in funds that buy non-U.S. shares as of March 31. On the fixed-
income side, 61 percent of the firm’s money is in global or
international assets.  Growth Driver  Bonds outside the U.S. still have a lot of room to grow
because many retail investors have limited exposure to the asset
class, Jason Weyeneth, an analyst with Sterne, Agee & Leach Inc.
in New York, said in a telephone interview.  “Global bonds have been the driver for Franklin,”
Weyeneth said.  In recent years, investors from around the world have been
depositing their money into funds run by Hasenstab. The 39-year-
old money manager joined Franklin right out of college in 1995
and has been managing the  Templeton Global Bond Fund (TPINX)  since 2001.  He beat 92 percent of peers in 2008 by investing in
currencies such as the Japanese yen, the  U.S. dollar  and the
Swiss franc to take advantage of the flight to safety that
accompanied the global financial crisis, according to an October
2008 note on the Morningstar website.  Since the crisis, Hasenstab has favored bonds and
currencies from countries with strong economic fundamentals and
good fiscal management.  “We remain encouraged about the growth prospects and low-
indebtedness of many  emerging markets ,” he wrote in a March 18
commentary. South Korean  government bonds  represented 11 percent
of Templeton Global Bond’s holdings as of Nov. 30, the largest
single position, according to a regulatory filing.  Sevenfold Surge  Templeton Global Bond gained 9.3 percent a year for the
past five years, better than 92 percent of peers, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Investors have taken notice. Over the past five years, the
fund’s assets have grown almost sevenfold to $71 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A version of the  fund
sold in Europe  has grown more than fourfold to $47 billion.  When Hasenstab stumbled in 2011, trailing 91 percent of
rivals after a selloff in emerging-market currencies, deposits
into his fund dropped 84 percent the next year, Morningstar data
show. They bounced back in the first three months of 2013 after
Templeton Global Bond topped 90 percent of peers in 2012.  ‘2020 Vision’  Franklin is seeking to urge clients back into equity funds,
starting a campaign in 2010 called “2020 Vision,” which tells
investors that that equities in this decade will probably
deliver better returns than they did in the period from 2000 to
2010.  The campaign has yet to bear fruit among U.S. investors,
who continue to avoid the company’s equity funds, even as those
funds outperformed 57 percent of rivals in the past five years,
according to Denver-based Lipper.  “It has actually been easier to sell our equity funds
outside the U.S. because of the strength of our brand,” Johnson
said.  The $18.5 billion Templeton Asian Growth Fund, which is
based in Luxembourg and managed by Mobius, attracted $5.8
billion in deposits over the past four years, according to
Morningstar data.  Franklin in September agreed to pay about $183 million for
a majority stake in K2 Advisors Holdings LLC, to increase its
presence in alternative investing.  Stamford , Connecticut-based
K2 is a fund-of-fund hedge manager with $9.3 billion in assets.  Johnson said while he is concerned about his firm’s
reliance on deposits into global bond funds over the past few
years, he is confident the company has enough choices to offer
investors should sentiment change.  “We don’t have many holes in our lineup,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  