-- France Telecom Said to Resume Search for Dailymotion Partner
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-05-01T15:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/france-telecom-said-to-resume-search-for-dailymotion-partner.html
France Telecom  SA will resume its
search for a partner for the video site  Dailymotion  SA as
negotiations with  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  collapsed after intervention by
the French government, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the situation.  Yahoo’s talks to buy a stake in Dailymotion from Paris-
based  France  Telecom had been going on for months, said the
person, who asked not to be identified as the discussions
weren’t public. French Industry Ministry  Arnaud Montebourg 
pressed for a 50-50 partnership, while Yahoo wanted to buy a
majority stake in Dailymotion, the person said. The government
is France Telecom’s largest shareholder.  Lauren Armstrong, a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-
based Yahoo declined to comment on “rumors and speculation”
when contacted by  Bloomberg News . France Telecom began looking
elsewhere for a partner immediately after the talks with Yahoo
ended, and it wants to retain a stake in Dailymotion, the person
familiar with the situation said.  The collapse of the talks coincides with efforts by France
to attract foreign investors and may raise concern about
government conditions. President  Francois Hollande  called for
the Chinese to invest in France in a speech in Beijing last
month after French jobless claims rose to a record high of 3.22
million, the 23rd monthly increase in jobseekers.  Content Access  France Telecom, owner of the Orange brand, bought its
initial 49 percent stake in Dailymotion in 2011 for 58.8 million
euros ($78 million), and boosted the holding to 100 percent in
January this year. Dailymotion, and partnerships such as a
linkup with music service Deezer, were designed to help France
Telecom gain access to more content.  France Telecom has been in talks with a number of groups
about Dailymotion,  Tom Wright , a spokesman, said in an interview
today, declining to comment specifically on the discussions with
Yahoo or the government’s role.  “For Dailymotion to develop in the future and grow, it
needs to find a strong, strategic partner, probably in the U.S.
to open the doors to the U.S. market,” he said.  Yahoo had been in talks to buy as much as 75 percent of
Dailymotion, which is valued at $300 million, the Wall Street
Journal reported in March, without citing a source.  Negotiations between France Telecom and Yahoo stalled after
the companies weren’t able to reach an accord, Montebourg said
in an e-mailed statement late yesterday. Any deal needs to be
“balanced” and beneficial to both companies, Montebourg said.  Montebourg “wants to underscore that the Industry Ministry
is keen on creating the optimal conditions for Dailymotion’s
international development.”  Phone calls and e-mails to officials at the Industry
Ministry went unanswered today, a holiday in France.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  