-- Freeport-McMoRan’s $6.9 Billion Plains Bid Called Too Low
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-05-01T15:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/freeport-mcmoran-s-6-9-billion-plains-bid-called-too-low.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ’s
$6.9 billion bid for  Plains Exploration & Production Co. (PXP)  is
inadequate and should be blocked, an investor’s lawyer told a
Delaware judge.  Plains directors failed in their duty to get the best price
for the company’s stock, according to shareholders who sued in
Delaware Chancery Court. Today, the investors are asking the
judge to issue a preliminary injunction to halt the  deal .  “Plains shareholders cannot make an informed decision
regarding whether or not the Plains acquisition is in their best
interests because defendants have failed to disclose such basic
financial metrics as their unlevered cash flows,” lawyer  Peter
B. Andrews  said in a March 29 brief.  Judge John Noble, presiding over the hearing, may not
immediately render a decision on the dispute.  “This case is about a premium transaction” which
“stockholders are fully empowered to reject,” a lawyer for the
company’s directors, Lisa Schmidt, wrote in an April 19 brief.
“No bidder has come forward to offer the stockholders anything
better” and a vote on the deal should be allowed.  ‘Disabling Conflicts’  Opponents said the deal “is riddled with disabling
conflicts of interest.” Plains Chief Executive Officer and
Chairman James C. Flores stands to collect more than
$140 million in shares and tax payments once the company changes
hands, according to the investor complaint.  A hearing on a related case, in which shareholders sued
 McMoRan Exploration Co. (MMR) , was postponed.  Freeport, based in Phoenix, said in a statement Dec. 5 that
it would buy Houston-based Plains for $25 in cash and 0.6531
Freeport share for each Plains share; and would buy New Orleans-
based McMoRan for $14.75 a share and 1.15 units of a royalty
trust.  The cases are Rice v. Plains, CA8090, and Krieger v.
McMoRan, CA8091, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  