-- GE in N.Y. Talks to Widen Hudson River Pollution Cleanup
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-05-01T20:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/ge-in-n-y-talks-to-widen-hudson-river-pollution-cleanup.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  is in talks with
 New York  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  and Attorney General Eric Schneiderman on expanding its cleanup of contaminants in the
 Hudson River , according to the head of the state’s canal agency.  “It’s being talked about, but no agreement is in place
yet,” Brian Stratton, director of the New York State Canal
Corp., said in an interview at the state Capitol in  Albany .
“It’s occurring within other levels of government, the
governor’s office and the attorney general’s office.”  GE, which dumped as much as 1.3 million pounds (590,000
kilograms) of likely carcinogens into the Hudson over three
decades, says it has spent more than $1 billion removing
polluted sediment under agreements with the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency. A fourth season of dredging on a 40-mile (64-
kilometer) stretch of the river began yesterday.  GE promised state Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  in March to
study widening the cleanup of polychlorinated biphenyls, or
PCBs, a step favored by DiNapoli as a way to possibly lessen
fines against the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company for
environmental damage. At the time, he controlled GE stock as
sole trustee of the New York State Common Retirement Fund.  The canal agency has argued that state and federal
regulators’ assessment of the ecological damage from the
pollution should include the cost of restoring Hudson River
navigation channels outside GE’s dredging zone. That could
result in additional penalties for GE.  GE Response  Mark Behan, a company spokesman who works for works for
Behan Communications Inc., declined to comment on whether
Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE is in talks with New York sate
officials.  “EPA is in charge of this project, has determined the
scope of this project and has said it does not intend to expand
the scope of this project on three separate occasions, most
recently last summer,” Behan said by telephone. “We have no
expectation that EPA will change its view.”  Rich Azzopardi, a Cuomo spokesman, and Damien LaVera, a
spokesman for Schneiderman, didn’t immediately respond to e-
mails and phone calls requesting comment on the talks with GE.  GE sued  National Grid Plc (NG/) ’s Niagara Mohawk unit in federal
court in New York seeking costs associated with the dredging. GE
alleged in a complaint filed April 26 that contaminated sediment
and debris was released when the utility removed a dam at Fort
Edward, New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  