-- GM Pulls Chevrolet Ad Including Song Decried as Racist
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-05-01T21:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/gm-pulls-chevrolet-ad-including-song-decried-as-racist.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , seeking to boost
China sales 75 percent by 2015, apologized for a Chevrolet ad
that included a song referring to “the land of Fu Manchu”
where all of the girls sing “ching, ching, chop-suey,” which
one Hong Kong newspaper called racist.  “Our intent was not to offend anyone and we’re deeply
sorry if anyone was offended,” Ryndee Carney, a Detroit-based
GM spokeswoman, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “We’re
reviewing our advertising approval processes to make sure this
doesn’t happen again.”  The English-language ad for the Chevrolet Trax sport-
utility vehicle featured a 1920s motif and included music from
Austrian performer and disc jockey  Parov Stelar , she said. The
South  China  Morning Post  reported  on the ad, using the word
“racist” in a headline.  GM wants to expand sales in China and plans to spend $11
billion through 2016 on new plants and products in the country.
GM is targeting 5 million deliveries in China by 2015. Sales of
GM and its Chinese joint ventures increased 11 percent to a
record  2.84 million  last year. The company already sells more
vehicles in China than its home market.  The latest Chevy ad never appeared in China, Carney said.
It began running in Canada on March 4 and was also available
online through Chevrolet Europe websites, she said. The company
ended all versions of the ad by yesterday, Carney said. GM took
the step after receiving a complaint, she said.  Marketing Blunders  The episode is one of several marketing blunders prompting
public apologies by automakers this year.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  apologized in March for ads in India,
including a version depicting former Italian Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi  with three tied-up and gagged young women.  The ads weren’t requested by Ford or intended for paid
publication,  WPP Plc (WPP) ’s JWT India unit said in an e-mailed
statement in March. The agency fired an undisclosed number of
employees.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , based in  Seoul , and a dealer for GM’s
Buick brand apologized for posting on Chinese social media while
alluding to an outcry over the murder of a 2-month-old baby.
Hyundai also apologized for a promotional video posted on Google
Inc.’s YouTube depicting a man trying to kill himself in his
vehicle.  GM fell 2.1 percent to $30.18 at the close yesterday in New
York. The shares have increased 4.7 percent this year, compared
with an 11 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in  Los Angeles  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  