-- Gold Drops on Risk Fed Will Curb Stimulus as Investors Sell ETFs
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-05-01T20:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/gold-declines-as-investors-weigh-etp-holdings-drop-fed-meeting.html
Gold fell the most in two weeks as the
 Federal Reserve  signaled it is ready to curb a bond-buying
program as needed and inflation remained in check, eroding
demand for the precious metal as a hedge.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement it is
“prepared to increase or reduce the pace of its purchases to
maintain appropriate policy accommodation as the outlook for the
labor market or inflation changes.” Exchange-traded funds
backed by gold plunged 174 metric tons last month, the biggest
drop on record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Equity
and commodity markets fell after a report showed  China ’s
manufacturing expanded at a weaker pace in April.  “The Fed saying that it may curb purchases if deemed fit
is not good for gold,”  Frank McGhee , the head dealer at
Integrated Brokerage Services LLC in  Chicago , said in a
telephone interview. “Also, the Chinese data is bearish for all
metals, including gold.”  Gold futures for June delivery retreated 1.8 percent to
settle at $1,446.20 an ounce at 1:41 p.m. on the Comex in New
York, the biggest drop since April 15, when prices slumped the
most in 33 years. The metal slid into a  bear market  last month
and is down 23 percent from its closing high in September 2011.  The Fed said it will maintain its bond buying at a pace of
$85 billion a month in a bid to boost employment. A report in
two days is projected to show unemployment stayed at 7.6 percent
in April, and data on manufacturing today added to evidence the
economy is slowing as federal spending cuts and tax increases
bite.  Paring Loss  After the 2 p.m. statement from the Fed, prices pared
losses, trading at $1,455.80 as of 4:08 p.m., compared with
yesterday’s close of $1,472.10.  “Gold erased part of its losses since the market expects
the Fed to continue to pump money as inflation is not a
concern,” which may spur price gains later, Phil Streible, a
senior commodity broker at R.J. O’Brien & Associates, said in a
telephone interview. “The other negative factors, like weak
Chinese data and the drop in ETPs have continued to act against
gold.”  The Fed said that bond buying will continue “until the
outlook for the labor market has improved substantially.” It
also left unchanged its statement that it plans to hold its
target interest rate near zero as long as unemployment remains
above 6.5 percent and the outlook for inflation doesn’t exceed
2.5 percent.  While prices have rebounded 9.4 percent since touching a
two-year low on April 16, they dropped 7.7 percent last month,
the biggest loss since December 2011, as some investors lost
faith in the metal as a traditional store of value.  Yielding Assets  ETP assets were 2,275.84 tons yesterday, the lowest since
October 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. SPDR Gold
Trust holdings, the biggest ETP, dropped to 1,078.54 tons, the
lowest since September 2009.  “When you get an ETF market that doesn’t yield as high as
comparable assets, then you will have continual topside
pressure,” said  Jonathan Barratt , the chief executive officer
of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity newsletter in Sydney.
“People are moving funds from non-yielding to yielding
assets.”  Silver futures for July delivery dropped 3.5 percent to
settle at $23.343 an ounce on the Comex. Prices slumped 15
percent last month, the most since December 2011.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , platinum futures for
July delivery fell 2.5 percent to $1,469.50 an ounce. The metal
declined 4.3 percent last month, the third straight slump.  Palladium futures for June delivery dropped 1.9 percent to
$684.75 an ounce. In April, the price tumbled 9.2 percent, the
most since May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in  New York  at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  