-- Goldman Names Salisbury Head of Special-Situations Group
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-05-01T19:54:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/goldman-names-salisbury-head-of-special-situations-group.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said Julian Salisbury will become head of the global special-situations
group, a unit that invests the firm’s own money and generated as
much as $4 billion a year before the financial crisis.  Salisbury, 41, is replacing Jason Brown, who is retiring,
New York-based Goldman Sachs said today in an internal memo.
Salisbury will move to New York from  London , where he has been
head of the European special-situations group.  Michael DuVally ,
a spokesman for the company, confirmed the contents of the memo.  The Special Situations Group, known as SSG, trades
distressed debt and has made investments in companies from
 Japan ’s largest golf-course operator to pizza-chain Sbarro Inc.
In 2011, New York-based Goldman Sachs stopped including SSG’s
results within fixed-income trading, and moved it into a new
reporting segment called investing and lending that includes
other proprietary investments.  The bank’s investing and lending  division  generated $5.89
billion in 2012, almost triple that of a year earlier. The unit
gained $1.85 billion from debt securities and loans, and $2.39
billion from equity securities. The company doesn’t break out
SSG’s results.  Salisbury, a U.K. citizen, was a founding member of the
European SSG unit in 2003 and was named a partner at the firm in
2008, according to the memo, which was sent by Pablo J. Salame
and Isabelle Ealet, co-heads of the securities division. Brown,
who joined Goldman Sachs from Bear Stearns Cos. in 1999 and
became a partner in 2006, had led the group from  Hong Kong  since
2011.  Diversified Portfolio  “Jason’s leadership has been instrumental in the design
and execution of a realigned investment approach in GSSG,
resulting in a diversified portfolio that has shown strong
performance in both favorable and challenging market
conditions,” Ealet and Salame wrote in a separate memo.  Reuters reported the management changes earlier today.  SSG produced $4.1 billion in 2007, 9 percent of the
company’s total revenue. It generated $3.79 billion in 2006,
according to documents released by a Senate subcommittee in
2011.  Goldman Sachs has faced questions about whether SSG’s
activities would be crimped by the Volcker rule, which was part
of the Dodd-Frank Act. Rules about how it will be implemented
are still being written. The bank has argued that most of the
unit is a lending business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  