-- Greece Accepts Revised Emma Delta Bid for Opap Stake
-- B y   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 2013-05-02T10:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/greece-asset-fund-accepts-revised-emma-delta-bid-for-opap-stake.html
(Corrects names of investors in last paragraph of story
dated May 1 based on group statement.)  Greece’s state asset sales fund
accepted a revised offer from Emma Delta to buy a 33 percent
stake in  Opap SA (OPAP)  as the government hailed the investment in the
country’s biggest gambling company.  Emma Delta offered 652 million euros ($861 million), the
Athens-based Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund said in an
e-mailed statement today. The deal is subject to regulatory
approval, the fund said. As part of the deal, Greece will also
receive 60 million euros in a dividend for 2012.  The “first major Greek privatization was successfully
completed today,” Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras said,
according to an e-mailed statement sent from his Athens-based
office today.  Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s government has pledged to
speed up asset sales, a key plank in cutting the country’s debt.
Proceeds from the sale of the Opap stake as well as natural gas
company Depa SA and grid operator Desfa SA will make up the bulk
of 2.3 billion euros  Greece  needs to raise from asset sales this
year, HRADF Chief Executive Officer Ioannis Emiris said in a
March 13 interview.  Greece’s state asset fund asked Emma Delta to submit a
higher offer after its initial bid of 622 million euros was
deemed too low. The asset fund decided not to unseal a second
binding offer it received from Third Point LLC, due to attached
conditions.  Emma Delta is a variable equity fund controlled by Jiri
Smejc and George Melissanidis, according to a statement from the
fund. Investors include Czech Republic-based Emma Group and
 Russia ’s ICT Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  