-- Gross Says Central-Bank Policies Impose ’Haircuts’ on Investors
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-05-01T11:41:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/gross-says-central-bank-policies-impose-haircuts-on-investors.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond  fund , said
global central bank debt purchase programs and almost-zero
interest rates are bolstering economic growth and asset prices
at a cost to savers and investors.  “It has been the objective of the Fed over the past few
years to make even more innovative forms of money by supporting
stock and bond prices at a cost at an ever ascending scale,”
Gross wrote in his monthly investment outlook posted on Newport
Beach, California-based Pimco’s website today. “Current
policies come with cost, even as they magically float asset
prices higher. Negative real interest rates, inflation, currency
devaluation, capital controls and outright default” are among
the costs, or ”haircuts” from global central banks’
unprecedented monetary stimulus.  The Fed’s efforts to keep long-term interest rates low and
holding its target rate at almost zero for more than four years
has caused savers to suffer in what Gross has dubbed in the past
“financial repression,” given low returns on bank deposits and
fixed-income securities. Central-bank efforts to reflate their
economies after the financial crisis have devalued the
purchasing power of currencies and investment portfolios, Gross
said.  Market Participation  Gross advised investors to continue to participate in
markets that the Fed and other global central banks are
supporting, while gradually reducing risk this year. He added
that Treasuries, for now, “are a better alternative than
cash.”  “Give your own portfolio a trim as the year goes on,” 
Gross wrote. “You will give up some higher returns upfront in 
order to avoid the swift hand” that may result from these
”haircuts.”  Gross boosted the proportion of U.S. government securities
in the Total Return Fund to 33 percent in March from 28 percent
in February, according to the latest available data on the
company’s  website . Gross has been advising investors to buy
government debt, including inflation-linked securities and
nominal Treasuries.  Gross recommended investors reduce so-called duration in
their portfolios, risk positions and ”carry” based trades.
Duration is a measure of a bond’s price change as interest rates
fluctuate. Since as interest rates rise bond prices fall, higher
duration leaves an investor at risk for greater losses if yields
increase.  Carry Trade  Carry based trades in fixed-income securities focus on
borrowing money at lower interest rates, typically for shorter
maturities, and investing in debt where yields are higher, such
as in longer term bonds or higher-risk securities such as
corporate.  The world’s biggest manager of bond funds cut mortgage
holdings to 33 percent in March, the lowest level since August
2011, from 36 percent in February.  The $289 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  gained 7.6 percent
during the past year, beating 92 percent of its peers, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Federal Open Market Committee has said benchmark rates
will stay at almost zero until the unemployment rate is below
6.5 percent as long as inflation stays close to its 2 percent
target. After purchasing more than $2 trillion in debt through
two rounds of quantitative easing that began in 2008, the
central bank is currently buying $85 billion a month in
Treasuries and mortgage debt to support the housing market and
economic growth.  Wall Street’s biggest bond dealers see little chance the
Federal Reserve will slow the pace of  debt purchases  designed to
boost economic growth before the fourth quarter, and more than
half forecast the Fed’s $85 billion in bond buying will end in
mid-2014, according to a Bloomberg News survey conducted last
month.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $2.04 trillion in  assets  as of March 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  