-- Microsoft's Skype Infringed Patents, New York Firm Claims
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-05-01T22:49:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/microsoft-s-skype-infringed-patents-new-york-firm-claims.html
A New York technology development
company said it sued  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  over allegations the
software maker’s web-conferencing service, Skype, infringed
encryption-related patents.  CopyTele Inc. (COPY)  said it filed a complaint today in federal
court in Brooklyn, New York, alleging that Skype infringed two
patents for technology that helps maintain secure Web-based
communications. CopyTele is seeking unspecified damages,
according to a copy of the complaint provided by the firm. The
filing couldn’t be immediately confirmed in court records.  “These encryption patents are a prime example of the
enormous, untapped potential at CTI,” CopyTele’s Chief
Executive Officer Robert Berman said in a statement. The patents
have “tremendous value” that was “masked” under the previous
management, he said.  Jimmy Knodel, a spokesman for Microsoft who works for
Waggener Edstrom Worldwide, declined to comment on the suit.  Berman, formerly the chief operating officer of  Acacia
Research Corp. (ACTG) , a publicly-traded intellectual property holding
firm, said in an interview today that he was hired by CopyTele
to turn the technology developer into a similar business.  Acacia, based in Newport Beach, California, controls patent
portfolios, licenses them to corporate users and  sues  companies
that are alleged to have infringed the patents. The company says
it controls rights to about 250 patent portfolios.  In January, CopyTele sued  AU Optronics Corp. (AUO)  in federal
court in San Francisco, alleging the company stole patented
technologies developed for e-readers. The case is pending.  CopyTele expects to acquire additional patents and file
more lawsuits in the future, Berman said.  Microsoft acquired Skype from an investment group for
$8.5 billion in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in  New York  at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  