-- Middle America Business Conditions Index for April (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2013-05-01T12:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/middle-america-business-conditions-index-for-april-text-.html
Following is the text from the Mid-
America Business Conditions Survey of supply managers and
business leaders in the region from Creighton University.  The monthly Mid-America Business Conditions Index, a
leading economic indicator for a nine-state region, dipped for
the month. The index continues to point to improving economic
growth for the region in the next three to six months.  Overall index: The Business Conditions Index, which ranges
between 0 and 100, declined to a solid 56.8 from March’s even
healthier 58.2.  “Durable goods producers in the region continue to
outperform nondurable goods manufacturers. Durable goods
manufacturers reported strong growth in new orders from both
domestic and international buyers. Despite this healthy growth,
inflationary pressures at the wholesale level remain
restrained,” said Ernie Goss, Ph.D., director of Creighton
University’s Economic Forecasting Group and the Jack A.
MacAllister Chair in Regional Economics.  Employment:  After moving below growth neutral for January, the region’s
employment gauge has climbed above 50.0 for the past three
months. The April reading rose to 60.7 from March’s 56.3.
“Companies in the region are increasing the pace of new hiring.
For the entire region, I expect the employment to rise to pre-
recession levels this summer. At this point in time, the
region’s employment level is off less than one-half of a
percentage point from pre-recession levels. Of course this
differs by state with  Arkansas ,  Kansas  and Missouri lagging well
behind the remainder of the states,” said Goss.  Wholesale Prices:  The prices-paid index, which tracks the cost of purchased
raw materials and supplies, sank to 62.6 from 64.1 in March.
“Inflationary pressures at the wholesale level are clearly
trending lower. Thus far, the Federal Reserve’s cheap money
policy is elevating inflationary pressures, but only modestly.
The bigger problem in Mid-America has been the Fed’s impact on
asset prices such as farmland which continue to expand at rates
that should concern agriculture interests,” said Goss.  Confidence:  Looking ahead six months, economic optimism, as captured by
the April business confidence index, expanded to 59.9 from 58.2
in March. “Supply managers expect the upturn in housing to
remain an important ingredient of the economic expansion. The
federal spending sequestration is having almost no impact on the
outlook. The last two months, we have asked supply managers how
the federal spending sequestration was affecting their company.
More than three-fourths of supply managers in March and April
indicated that the cuts have had no impact on their company to
date. Less than one-fourth reported only modest impacts. None of
the businesses reported significant impacts,” said Goss.  This month we also asked supply managers the expected
outcome from the Affordable Care Act.  Approximately fifty
percent have experienced, or expect to experience negative
impacts. Only 2 percent anticipate positive impacts, while the
remaining 48 percent expect little or no impact on their
business.  Inventories:  Regional inventory levels increased for the month but at a
slower pace compared to March. The April inventory index slumped
to 50.6 from March’s 58.1. “Companies in our survey have now
expanded inventory levels for five straight months. This
inventory accumulation will add to regional growth in the months
ahead. This is another indicator of improving business
confidence,” said Goss.  Trade:  New export orders improved for the month. The new export
orders index increased to a 54.5 from 50.9 in March. In another
signal of an expanding regional economy, the import index
advanced for a third straight month to 58.4 from March’s 55.0
and 53.7 in February. “Upturns in production have pushed supply
managers to increase their purchases from abroad. While the
increase in new export orders for the month is good news, we
will need to experience several months of this growth to be
confident that exports are once again adding to regional
growth,” said Goss.  Other components:  Other components of the April Business Conditions Index
were new orders at 61.3, down from March’s very strong 65.4;
production or sales at 63.2, up from 62.4; and delivery lead
time at 48.5, down from 49.0 in March.  Survey results for May will be released on the first
business day of the month June 3.  SOURCE: Mid-America Business Conditions Survey,
http:/www.outlook-economic.com  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  