-- Tiger Woods Penalty at Masters to Be Reviewed by Rulemakers
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-05-01T21:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/tiger-woods-penalty-at-masters-to-be-reviewed-by-golf-rulemakers.html
Tiger Woods ’s two-stroke penalty for a
violation at the  Masters Tournament  and the ruling by the
event’s committee not to disqualify the golfer are being
reviewed by the sport’s rulemaking bodies.  The Scotland-based R&A and the U.S. Golf Association will
look at the actions of the player and the tournament as part of
their monitoring of the sport, the two groups said today in an
e-mailed statement.  The statement didn’t include any reference to possible
further action against Woods.  “In recent years, the R&A and the USGA have been assessing
the rules that relate to score cards and disqualification,” the
bodies said in the statement. “As part of this ongoing
assessment, and in keeping with this regular practice, the Rules
of Golf Committees of the R&A and the USGA will review the
exceptional situation that occurred at the 2013 Masters
Tournament, assess the potential implications for other types of
situations, and determine whether any adjustment to the Rules
and/or the Decisions is appropriate.”  Mark Steinberg , Woods’s agent, said in an e-mail that the
golfer wouldn’t have any additional comment on the review.  Latest Incident  The review is the latest in a series of incidents that have
brought attention to the sport.  Also at the Masters, 14-year-old Tianlang Guan from  China 
was assessed a one-stroke penalty for slow play. Yesterday,
Fiji’s  Vijay Singh  was cleared of wrongdoing by the tour for his
use of deer-antler spray, which contains IGF-1, a substance that
is naturally produced by the human body and is related to growth
hormone. Singh today withdrew from the Wells Fargo Championship
in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  “It’s certainly great topics of discussion,”  Stuart Appleby , an 18-year PGA Tour veteran, said in an interview.
“They are all serious topics and everyone has an opinion on all
of them.”  Woods tied for fourth at the tournament last month, unable
to collect his fifth Masters title, as  Adam Scott  became the
first Australian to win the event. Woods’s decision not to
withdraw was criticized by former golfers including  Nick Faldo ,
a three-time Masters champion.  Pond Landing  Following the second round at Augusta, Woods was assessed a
two-stroke penalty by the tournament’s rules committee after he
said during a press conference that he intentionally dropped his
ball two yards behind the original location from which he hit it
into water. It was his third shot on the par-5 15th hole, and
the ball caromed off the flagstick and into a pond in front of
the green.  The committee initially cleared Woods of any wrongdoing
during the round after a television viewer reported what he felt
to be the infraction. The incident was reviewed again after
Woods said he dropped the ball further back to assure his next
attempt would land short of the flag, a violation of a rule that
states the ball must be dropped “as near as possible” to the
original location.  Once he had been cleared to play, Woods said he never
considered withdrawing.  The on-going rules discussion today prompted PGA Tour
player Joe Ogilvie, a member of tour’s Player Advisory Council,
to call for rules officials on the top U.S. and European
professional tours to be included in such debates.  “We have amateur bodies that are making rules that
basically are only being driven by the professional game,”
Ogilvie said in an interview. “The professionals should at
least have a spot at the table when there are rules that affect
the best players in the world. The USGA and R&A would be well
served if our professional officials were given a very prominent
spot.”  Revised Rule  In 2011, golf’s governing bodies announced a new
interpretation of rule 33-7/4.5, which covers disqualification
for signing an incorrect scorecard. The change applies in
“limited circumstances” where disqualifications are caused by
scorecard errors resulting from video review. The governing
bodies today said that this rule didn’t apply in the Woods case,
but that instead the committee’s error in not originally
imposing a penalty allowed the player to continue.  The groups said the change addressed the situation where a
player is not aware he’s breached a rule “because of facts that
he did not know and could not reasonably have discovered prior
to turning in his scorecard.” At the discretion of the
tournament committee, the player is still penalized, but isn’t
disqualified.  However, the disqualification penalty would still apply for
scorecard breaches that arise from ignorance of the rules of
golf.  “Given the unusual combination of facts -- as well as the
fact that nothing in the existing Rules or Decisions
specifically addressed such circumstances of simultaneous
competitor error and committee error -- the committee reasonably
exercised its discretion” by not disqualifying Woods and yet
penalizing him two strokes, the governing bodies said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  