-- Milk Powder Auction Prices Decline for First Time This Year
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-05-01T20:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/milk-powder-auction-prices-decline-for-first-time-this-year.html
Whole milk powder fell for the first
time this year amid signs that New Zealand’s most widespread
drought in at least 30 years may ease, according to Fonterra
Cooperative Group Ltd.  Powder for July delivery declined 4.8 percent, according to
a trade-weighted index on the company’s  GlobalDairyTrade 
website. It was the first fall since Dec. 18. The near-term
contract for New Zealand product fell to $6,001 a metric ton
from a record $6,283 on April 16.  Prices have surged 89 percent since Jan. 2 as a drought
declared across the entire  North Island  including Waikato
province, the country’s biggest milk producer, curbed milk
collection. The nation may receive near-normal rainfall through
June, the National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research
said last month.  Fonterra on March 27 raised its forecast payout to farmers
for the current season citing rising global demand at a time of
restrained supply. Milk collection in March fell 16 percent from
a year earlier, the Auckland-based company said April 11.  Fonterra, which accounts for about a third of the global
trade in dairy products, sells whole, skim and butter-milk
powder, dried-milk fat, lactose, butter, cheese and casein at
its GlobalDairyTrade auctions. The company offers monthly
contracts with delivery starting from two months after the sale.
Casein is a protein found in milk.  Whole-milk powder for August delivery fell 8.8 percent
while prices across all five product contracts out to November
dropped 10.2 percent, Fonterra said.  In other auctions, prices for July delivery of milk fat,
casein, cheddar, skim and butter-milk powder also declined.
Cheddar rose, while lactose and milk protein concentrate weren’t
offered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  