-- Time Warner Sales Disappoint as NCAA Schedule Hurts Ads
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-05-01T20:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/time-warner-beats-profit-estimates-on-better-subscription-sales.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , owner of cable
networks TNT and HBO, posted first-quarter sales that missed
estimates as advertising dropped in part because of a later
schedule for college basketball’s biggest event.  Revenue slid less than 1 percent from a year earlier to
$6.93 billion, Time Warner said today, below the $7.12 billion
average estimate of 25 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The
National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament extended
later into the second quarter than it typically does, with the
championship game on April 8, dragging TV ad revenue down 1
percent to $1.08 billion compared to a year earlier, when it was
held on April 2.  Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Bewkes has focused the
company’s growth strategy on its TV business, which accounts for
more than 70 percent of Time Warner’s  sales . He announced plans
in March to spin off magazine publisher Time Inc. -- the
company’s worst-performing division -- after unsuccessful talks
to merge the unit with  Meredith Corp. (MDP) , publisher of women’s
titles including Ladies’ Home Journal.  Shares in the company decreased less than 1 percent to
$59.48 at the close in New York. The stock has climbed 24
percent this year.  ‘Thrones’ Spending  Bewkes has favored spending money developing shows such as
HBO’s “Game of Thrones,” or getting rights to sports
programming, such as the NCAA tournament, to command higher fees
from pay-TV providers and draw higher advertising revenue.  Excluding some items, first-quarter profit was 82 cents a
share, surpassing the 74 cents analysts predicted on average,
according to data  compiled by Bloomberg . Affiliate fees from the
pay-TV companies gained 5 percent, helping total revenue in the
cable-network unit rise by 2.6 percent to $3.7 billion.  Time Warner’s  net income  increased to $720 million, or 75
cents a share, from $583 million, or 59 cents, a year earlier,
the company said.  The Warner Bros.  division ’s sales declined 4 percent to
$2.7 billion on lower box-office business and TV-licensing
revenue. Time Inc.’s sales dropped about 5 percent to $737
million.  The company boosted its dividend in the quarter 11 percent
to almost 29 cents a share. A stock buyback program started in
January will be worth as much as $4 billion.  Returning Cash  Those moves will return cash to investors as the company
waits to renegotiate rights fees with pay-TV systems later this
year. The company said today on a conference call it expects to
draw more fees from online video providers such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) 
than the $350 million it received last year.  Ratings at Time Warner’s ad-supported cable networks,
including  CNN , TNT and TBS, fell an average of 4.2 percent in
the quarter among certain age groups, according to a note from
Michael Nathanson, an analyst with Nomura Holdings Inc. in New
York. He has a neutral rating on the shares.  For 2013, Time Warner reiterated that earnings will grow at
a rate in the “low double digits” from $3.28 a share in 2012,
excluding some items. That includes the effect of a $60 million
restructuring at Time Inc., the company’s magazine division.  The 60-year-old Bewkes, who has renewed his employment
agreement through 2017, reshuffled the company’s executive
lineup in the past year to shape up underperforming divisions.  Bewkes installed Jeff Zucker, the 48-year-old former NBC
Universal chief, to lead the struggling CNN, and in January he
resolved a two-year contest among top executives at Warner Bros.
by promoting Kevin Tsujihara, 48, to run the unit.  Also in January, Richard Plepler, 54, took over as CEO of
 HBO  for the departing Bill Nelson. The appointments provide
Zucker, Tsujihara and Plepler with high-profile posts that put
them in position to compete for Bewkes’s job, should he decide
to step down at the end of his term in 2017, when he will be 65
years old.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  