-- ING U.S. Unit’s IPO Led by ‘Unsung Heroes’ of AIG Bailout
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r ,   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-05-01T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/ing-u-s-unit-s-ipo-led-by-unsung-heroes-of-aig-bailout.html
ING U.S. Inc. (VOYA) , a unit of the largest
Dutch financial-services company, is headed for an initial
public offering led by managers who helped  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  repay its rescue by divesting assets.  Chief Executive Officer Rodney Martin, 60, oversaw AIG’s
international life units as they were sold to rivals or on
public markets. Alain Karaoglan, ING U.S. chief operating
officer, helped run sales of Asian insurers as senior vice
president for divestiture at New York-based AIG.  “Rod and Alain are both great professionals and they
worked selflessly at AIG,” Paula Reynolds, who was the
company’s restructuring chief, said by e-mail. “They are among
the unsung heroes of the first year of AIG’s restructuring.”  ING U.S. and parent  ING Groep NV (INGA)  are scheduled to sell as
much as $1.54 billion of stock today in the second-biggest U.S.
IPO this year, offering the shares at $21 to $24 each. ING Groep
will pare its stake to 75 percent in the sale, filings show.  “They need to unload 25 percent this year, so they’ve got
to do it now,” said Vincent Lui, an equity analyst at
Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago . “They’re under the gun to unload
the company, so they really don’t have a choice.”  ING Groep agreed to sell global-insurance and investment-
management operations to win European Union approval of its 2008
bailout from the  Netherlands . Jan Hommen, CEO of the Amsterdam-
based parent company, has overseen more than  25 asset disposals 
for at least 20 billion euros ($26 billion) in proceeds.  IPO Proceeds  ING U.S. will receive $600 million of gross proceeds from
the IPO, which the company will combine with about $1.4 billion
of payments from subsidiaries and $1.1 billion from a planned
debt sale to help repay borrowings, filings show. Dana Ripley,
an ING U.S. spokesman, declined to comment.  At the midpoint of the offering range, ING U.S. would have
a market value of $5.78 billion, or about 40 percent of post-IPO
book value, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s about 43
percent less than the median price-to-book ratio for  MetLife
Inc. (MET) , Principal Financial Group Inc., Prudential Financial Inc.
and Lincoln National Corp., the data show.  Low  interest rates  and equity-market volatility have
pressured insurers, which invest customers’ premiums before
paying claims. Guarantees made when interest rates were higher
may no longer be profitable, Lui said.  “In a zero-percent interest-rate environment, it’s very
hard for the insurers to provide that sort of guarantee,” Lui
said. “There’s a macro headwind that everybody is facing.”  Stock Market  Gains in equities may help reverse insurers’ fortunes.
Stocks are trading near record highs after the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index has  surged  12 percent since the end of last year.  The rising demand for stocks has stoked a pickup in IPOs,
allowing companies to raise $12.5 billion in the U.S. so far in
2013, 26 percent more than a year earlier, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  ING U.S. will be renamed Voya Financial after the IPO, and
the switch will take about two years, the company said in a
statement. The firm has about 13 million customers and sells
life insurance, annuities and retirement products.  At the top of the price range, ING U.S.’s IPO would be the
second largest in the U.S. this year, behind the $2.6 billion
initial offer by Pfizer Inc.’s animal-health unit  Zoetis Inc. (ZTS)  in
January, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Morgan Stanley,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Citigroup Inc.
are leading the sale. The shares are scheduled to start trading
tomorrow on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol VOYA.  ING U.S. scaled back from selling equity-linked retirement
products known as variable annuities. It was the fourth-largest
seller of the contracts in 2007, and had dropped out of the top
20 by 2011, according to data from industry group Limra.  Baby Boomers  The insurer is focusing on managing assets for retail
clients and institutional investors and selling protection
products such as life insurance. The retirement segment provided
49 percent of operating earnings before taxes in 2012, and
individual life accounted for 21 percent, the IPO filing shows.  “They want to take advantage of the aging  baby boomers ,
that’s a huge market for them,” Lui said. “There’s still a big
market for  life insurance .”  The net loss in the three months ended March 31 was about
$190 million to $230 million, ING U.S. said in a filing last
week. The loss was driven by hedges that guard against falling
stocks on variable annuities. Operating earnings before taxes in
the ongoing business were about $270 million to $290 million,
ING U.S. said.  Hommen sold ING Direct USA to Capital One Financial Corp.
last year. He’s also agreed to sell insurance units in  Hong
Kong ,  Thailand  and  Malaysia . In 2011, he sold most of the Latin
American unit to Grupo de Inversiones Suramericana SA.  ING’s Bailout  ING Groep, which has pledged to repay all 10 billion euros
in state support by 2015, has so far returned 7.8 billion euros,
as well as 2.4 billion euros in interest and premiums. The
 shares  had fallen 12 percent this year through yesterday after
the Netherlands nationalized its smaller competitor SNS Reaal NV
and expropriated subordinated debt holders in the process to
limit taxpayer costs.  Martin started in the industry as an agent at Connecticut
Mutual Life Insurance Co. in 1975, ING said when he was hired as
CEO of the U.S. insurer in 2011. He joined American General Life
Cos. as president and CEO in 1995 and stayed on when AIG bought
American General in 2001 for about $23 billion.  Martin was named chairman of AIG’s International Life and
Retirement Services division in 2009, overseeing businesses that
were later sold, including American Life Insurance Co., AIA
Group Ltd., and life units Star, Edison and Nan Shan.  AIG’s Sell-off  Prudential bought Star and Edison, and a Taiwan-based group
acquired Nan Shan. AIA was sold via public offerings in Hong
Kong. MetLife bought Alico for more than $16 billion in 2010 and
hired Martin to help integrate the unit.  Karaoglan, 50, was hired as senior vice president for
divestiture at AIG in 2009, after working as an equity analyst,
including at Bank of America Corp. and Deutsche Bank AG. He
reported to Reynolds at AIG. He joined ING’s U.S. unit as
executive vice president of finance and strategy in 2011.  Karaoglan earned his MBA at  Dartmouth College ’s Tuck School
of Business, after studying economics and business at  Pepperdine
University . Martin, who will take on the added role of chairman
when the IPO prices, has a bachelor’s degree in business
administration from Alfred University in  New York  State.  The Alico and AIA deals were the largest asset sales at
AIG, which also agreed to sell units such as a consumer lender
and a plane-leasing operation to help repay its bailout. AIG
raised about $35 billion in four offerings of Hong Kong-based
life insurer AIA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net 
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net 
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  