-- Interest-Only Mortgage Alert in U.K. Downgraded to Wake-Up Call
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-05-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/interest-only-mortgage-alert-in-u-k-downgraded-to-wake-up-call.html
The U.K. financial regulator backed
off warnings that interest-only mortgages were a “ticking time
bomb,” saying most borrowers can repay the loans.  Britons who took out the loans during the property boom and
don’t have enough savings to repay the principal still have
relatively high incomes and equity in the property, the
 Financial Conduct Authority , the U.K.’s markets and consumer
finance regulator, said in a report today.  The regulator has tightened mortgage-lending rules since
the 2008 U.S. subprime-lending crisis, banning interest-only
mortgages when the borrower is betting on rising house prices to
repay the loan. Around two of every five U.K. mortgages are
interest-only, a product where borrowers pay no principal on the
actual loan.  “It is reassuring that the regulator’s findings echo our
own, and suggest that the majority of interest-only customers
are both aware of their repayment obligations, and have at least
a reasonable plan about how they expect to repay their loan,”
Paul Smee, director general of the  Council of Mortgage Lenders ,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Martin Wheatley, the head of the FCA, told lawmakers last
year that the mortgages were a “ticking time bomb.” Today, he
said banks that offered the loans maturing by 2020 must send
customers “a wake-up call” reminding them to make a plan for
repayment.  Acting Now  “By acting now we’re aiming to nip this problem in the
bud,” Wheatley, the London-based FCA’s chief executive officer,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Mortgage lenders have
volunteered to contact their most at-risk customers with a wake-
up call to highlight the report’s findings and what they need to
do without delay.”  Of the 2.6 million interest-only borrowers who must repay
their mortgage in the next 30 years, around 10 percent don’t
have a strategy to meet their obligations, according to the
research. One in seven don’t check their yearly mortgage
balance, the FCA said.  Around 100,000 people that borrowed money on an interest-
only basis will have to pay it back within seven years and are
likely to have a shortfall of more than 50,000 pounds ($78,000),
the FCA said.  Written Policies  The FCA will require lenders to have written policies
outlining how they will deal with at-risk interest-only
mortgages, train their front-line staff on how to advise
borrowers and give customers enough time to consider all their
options for repayment.  The FCA’s research found that around 21 percent of
borrowers planned to use savings to pay off the loan, while 15
percent plan to remortgage their property.  The report shows an improvement in the awareness of
interest-only mortgage consumers. About 78 percent of the
borrowers had no repayment strategy in the third quarter of
2011, according to a previous FSA survey.  The FCA began operations on April 1, taking over market
abuse and consumer finance enforcement duties from the FSA,
which was phased out by lawmakers who blamed it for failing to
prevent the financial crisis in 2008 which saw the collapse of
Northern Rock Plc and left  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  needing a
45.5 billion-pound government bailout.  The regulations reining in interest-only mortgages also
require lenders to assess the impact of rising interest rates in
their mortgage-approval calculations.  The  Bank of England  has kept benchmark  interest rate  at a
historic low of 0.5 percent since March 2009 to counter the
effects of the global financial crisis.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  