-- Ireland Legislates For Limited Abortion After Death
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2013-05-01T09:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/ireland-legislates-for-limited-abortion-after-death.html
Ireland’s government published outline
legislation allowing for abortion in limited circumstances,
including when doctors agree a pregnant woman is at risk of
suicide, in what Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said is an attempt to
bring “clarity” to the state’s position on the practice.  Two doctors must agree a real and substantial risk to the
life of a woman exists during pregnancy to approve a
termination, according to  government documents  published in
Dublin late yesterday. In cases in which risk of suicide is a
factor, three doctors must agree.  “This is an issue that has been very divisive for over 30
years,” Kenny said today. “The law on abortion in Ireland is
not being changed. The Protection of Life During Pregnancy Bill
will at last bring certainty to pregnant women and legal clarity
to medical personnel who work within the system.”  Successive governments, fearing a backlash in a mainly
Catholic nation, have avoided introducing laws to fasten down
the meaning of a 1992 Supreme Court ruling granting women the
right to an abortion when the mother’s life is at risk. The case
of Savita Halappanavar, who died last year of septicemia after
doctors decided not to carry out a termination, reignited the
battle over abortion, among the most divisive issues in an
increasingly secular society.  Right to Appeal  Under the proposal, where the risk to a woman’s life is
immediate, only the “reasonable opinion of one medical
practitioner is required.” A woman has the right to appeal a
decision not to allow an abortion.  “It is not necessary for medical practitioners to be of
the opinion that the risk to the woman’s life is inevitable or
immediate as this approach insufficiently vindicates the
pregnant woman’s right to life,” the government said. “It will
always be a matter for the patient to decide if she wishes to
proceed with a termination.”  Anti-abortion activists in Ireland opposed the inclusion of
a threat of suicide as grounds for abortion, a move they fear
could lead to terminations becoming relatively easily
accessible. In a 2002 referendum, voters defeated a proposal to
remove suicide as grounds for a termination.  Any person found guilty of acting to cause an abortion
outside of the parameters in the proposals may face a 14-year
prison sentence under the plan, including the woman concerned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  