-- Is Obama Appalled by His Own Anti-Terrorism Policies?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-01T18:41:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/is-obama-appalled-by-his-own-anti-terrorism-policies-.html
“I continue to believe that we’ve got
to close Guantanamo,”  said  President  Barack Obama  at yesterday’s
news conference. “The idea that we would still maintain forever
a group of individuals who have not been tried, that is contrary
to who we are.”  Those sound like the words of a man appalled by the very
idea of keeping enemy combatants behind bars without charges --
which is hard to reconcile with the actions of the president,
who has made indefinite detention a cornerstone of his anti-terrorism policy.  We agree that the prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, should be
shuttered, for all the reasons Obama mentioned: “It is
expensive. It is inefficient. It hurts us, in terms of our
international standing. It lessens cooperation with our allies
on counterterrorism efforts. It is a recruitment tool for
extremists.”  Yet even if Congress magically overcame its misguided
objections to transferring those prisoners to the U.S. mainland,
closing Gitmo would resolve few of the questions that have made
it such a vexing problem to begin with. These include what
rights are owed to detainees under the Constitution, and whether
indefinite detention is appropriate in what looks to be a long
and open-ended war.  A change of geography, moreover, is unlikely to end the
hunger strike by 100 or so detainees. They are not refusing food
because they are in Cuba. They are refusing food because they
are behind bars -- even though many have been cleared for
release on grounds that they don’t pose a threat to the U.S.  Obama’s 2009 Guantanamo Review Task Force recommended the
release of 86 prisoners, including 59 Yemenis, all of whom
remain behind bars. In some cases, their home countries refused
to take them back. In more than half, it was determined the
prisoner would face torture or persecution after repatriation.
Obama issued a moratorium on returning detainees to  Yemen 
shortly after a failed 2009 plot hatched there to blow up a U.S.
jetliner over  Detroit .  If Obama thinks the security considerations have changed,
he can set in motion the release of the 86 this afternoon, by
ordering Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel to sign the
“certification requirements” Congress mandated in the Pentagon’s
2012 spending bill. If Yemen and other nations still balk at
accepting the detainees, persuading them to open their doors is
the job of the White House’s special envoy for closing
Guantanamo. Unfortunately, Obama  inexplicably closed  that office
in January.  The president’s conflicted impulses are no help in
unraveling this national mess. Will he renew his effort to
persuade Congress to move those men who still pose a threat from
Guantanamo to a domestic location? Is he prepared to open that
new prison to additional suspected terrorists, as opposed to
blowing them up with drones? Now that Obama seems primed to
revisit the topic, perhaps he should tell the American people
what the long-term plan is for detainees held in a war with no
apparent end.  Without action on such fronts, we are left with the
inescapable conclusion that the president was trying to appease
critics shocked by the hunger strikes while evading
responsibility for his own policies. Yesterday we saw a war of
words in the White House, and they all belonged to the
president.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 