-- Ferro Investors Advised by ISS to Vote for Two Dissidents
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-05-01T20:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/iss-says-dissidents-to-bring-warranted-change-to-ferro.html
Shareholders of  Ferro Corp. (FOE) , a U.S.
chemical company fending off an unsolicited takeover offer,
should vote for two of three dissident director nominees,
according to proxy advisory firm Institutional Investor Services
Inc.  Investors should vote for Quinpario Partners LLC Chief
Executive Officer Jeffry Quinn and FrontFour Capital Group LLC
Co-Founder David Lorber, ISS said in an April 30 report.
Quinpario and FrontFour have said they hold 4.3 percent of Ferro
shares. ISS didn’t recommend a vote for a third open seat on the
nine-member board of Mayfield Heights, Ohio-based Ferro.  “The dissidents have articulated a strong case that change
on FOE’s board is warranted,” ISS said, referring to Ferro by
its stock symbol.  Ferro has underperformed peer companies and its board
“appears not to have given due regard to a very real initial
indication of interest from a potential acquirer,” ISS said.  Shareholders are set to vote at a May 15 meeting, less than
two months after Ferro rejected plastics maker A. Schulman
Inc.’s $6.50-a-share offer. Schulman reiterated on April 22 that
it may raise the bid if it can look at Ferro’s books.  The offer is 21 percent higher than Ferro’s average share
price in the 20 days before the proposal and values Ferro at
about $875 million, including net debt and outstanding
exercisable options, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We strongly believe that ISS reached the wrong conclusion
in failing to recommend that shareholders elect all of” Ferro’s
nominees, Ferro said in an e-mail today. Its nominees “are
highly qualified, proven business leaders.”.  Ferro was unchanged at $7.04 in  New York . The shares have
gained 68 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  