-- Italy Won’t Seek EU Extension of Budget Deficit Goal, Letta Says
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2013-05-01T15:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/italy-won-t-seek-eu-extension-of-budget-deficit-goal-letta-says.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta
said he would stick to his predecessor’s promise to balance the
budget this year and will work with  France  to promote more pro-
growth policies in the euro region.  Italy  will “maintain” its commitment to eliminate its
deficit in structural terms, Letta said at a press conference
with French President  Francois Hollande  in Paris today. The
structural deficit discounts the effects of the recession.  “We can’t have a  Europe  where everybody is going down and
only a few countries are well,” Letta said. “I’m sure we will
find an accord and that France and Italy together will make
choices that will help Europe.”  In his first speech to Parliament on April 29, Letta called
for the European Union to move away from the austerity policies
that have contributed to Italy’s  longest recession  in more than
two decades. He pledged a series of tax cuts to boost growth and
create jobs that economists estimate will lead to more than 10
billion euros ($13 billion) in lost revenue this year.  The combination of higher taxes and lower spending
implemented by outgoing former prime minister  Mario Monti  helped
the country bring its overall  budget shortfall  within the EU’s
limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product, while deepening
the economic slump. Letta inherits an economy that’s probably in
its eighth quarter of contraction, with a jobless rate nearing
12 percent, the highest in more than two decades.  Property Tax  Letta was designated prime minister two months after
February’s inconclusive elections that left Italy with a hung
Parliament. He managed to resurrect the alliance between his
Democratic Party and former premier  Silvio Berlusconi ’s People
of Liberty that sustained Monti in power for more than a year.  Tensions have already emerged, with Berlusconi threatening
this week to withdraw his support if the government doesn’t
abolish an unpopular tax on primary residences known as IMU and
refund last year’s payment.  “On IMU the controversy doesn’t correspond to reality,”
Letta said today. He reiterated his pledge to suspend the next
payment of the levy due in June and work with Parliament to
review the entire tax for possible changes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  