-- Titan Plunges After FDA Rejects Drug-Addiction Treatment
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-05-01T20:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/titan-s-probuphine-fails-to-win-approval-for-opioid-addiction.html
Titan Pharmaceuticals Inc. (TTNP)  plunged the
most in 17 years after the company failed to win U.S. regulatory
approval for an implant to treat addiction to heroin and
prescription painkillers.  Titan fell 74 percent to 43 cents at 4 p.m.  New York  time,
the biggest drop since January 1996 when the company began
offering public shares. The Food and Drug Administration asked
for more information to prove the matchstick-size implant called
Probuphine for opioid dependence works, the company said in a
statement yesterday. The FDA wants additional data on the effect
of higher doses of Probuphine and training for doctors on
insertion and removal of the implant.  Probuphine may generate $360 million in sales in 2018,
Michael Higgins, an analyst for Brinson Patrick Securities
Corp., said in an e-mail before the rejection. Titan, based in
South San Francisco,  California , licensed the U.S. and Canadian
rights to Apple Tree Partners’ Braeburn Pharmaceuticals. Titan
is eligible for a $50 million milestone payment on approval.  “Titan and our partner, Braeburn Pharmaceuticals, are
extremely surprised and disappointed with the FDA’s response,”
Marc Rubin, executive chairman of Titan, said in the statement.  Titan believes Probuphine demonstrated both safety and
efficacy and meets a “critical need for new safe and effective
treatments that reduce the likelihood of abuse, diversion and
accidental pediatric exposure,” Rubin said.  Titan plans to discuss the rejection with the FDA to obtain
clarification and determine next steps.  Drug Abuse  More than 12 million people reported using prescription
painkillers recreationally or without a prescription, according
to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The drugs
were involved in 14,800 overdose deaths in 2008, more than
cocaine and heroin combined, the Atlanta-based CDC said.  A panel of FDA advisers that gave Probuphine a positive
recommendation in March raised concern that the dose of the
active ingredient, buprenorphine, may have been too low and
questioned the adequacy of the physician training program.  Addicts now can use Slough, England-based  Reckitt Benckiser
Group Plc (RB/) ’s Suboxone dissolvable film that combines
buprenorphine with the drug naloxone, which is used to reverse
the effects of overdose.  Orexo AB (ORX) , a Swedish biotechnology
company, is awaiting an FDA decision in July on its experimental
tablet Zubsolv that dissolves under the tongue  for opioid
dependence.  Titan’s Probuphine implant deliver’s six months of
buprenorphine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  