-- ITM Power Shares Climb on Increased Order Momentum: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-05-01T12:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/itm-power-shares-climb-on-increased-order-momentum-london-mover.html
ITM Power Plc (ITM) , a U.K. energy storage
and clean-fuel company, advanced the most in seven weeks after
attracting sales leads at a show in  Germany  and winning its
first contracts in  Hungary  and South America.  The shares rose as much as 14 percent, the biggest jump
since March 13. The Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Fair in Hanover last
month generated “a large pipeline of leads which have been
followed up,” Sheffield, England-based ITM said in a statement
today. This year the requests for bids are for much larger deals
and are mostly from international companies, it said.  ITM is looking to gain market share in the power-to-gas
energy storage market, initially in Germany, which is expected
to become a $1 billion a year market by 2020, according to John- Marc Bunce, an analyst at Nomura Code Securities.  “It is positive that ITM Power is showing increased order
momentum,” Bunce said in an e-mailed comment. While small
deals, like those in Hungary and  South America , won’t “ move
the dial to profitability,” ITM is showing potential to win
larger orders for power-to-gas projects, he said.  ITM shares were up 9.1 percent at 48 pence as of 1:15 p.m.
in  London , extending the gain in five trading days to 19
percent, the best performance among the 26 companies in the BI
GL Fuel Cell/Storage - Competitive Index. The volume of ITM
shares traded today was more than the three-month daily average.  Thuga Deal  In March, the company said it won an order to provide a 360
kilowatt power-to-gas storage plant for Thuga Group, a Munich-
based municipal utility purchasing cooperative.  That could lead to ITM could winning an order for a project
exceeding 1 megawatt within the next 12 months, Bunce said in a
note on April 24, when he maintained his buy  recommendation  on
the stock and cut his 12-month price target by 55 percent to 71
pence on concern that the company’s smaller products were not
penetrating electrolyser markets as quickly as expected.  The combination of slower-than-expected orders and higher
costs may force the company to raise more capital, said Bunce,
who cut his revenue estimate by 23 percent for 2013 and by 25
percent for 2014.  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , the U.K.’s third-largest supermarket
chain, last month joined a project including ITM to promote the
use of hydrogen-fuel-cell electric vehicles in the U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  