-- Japan Joins Germany in Opposing Fed’s Proposed Foreign Bank Rule
-- B y   R u s s e l l   W a r d
-- 2013-05-01T09:18:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/japan-joins-germany-in-opposing-fed-s-proposed-foreign-bank-rule.html
Japan  joined  Germany  in opposing a
proposed U.S.  Federal Reserve  rule aimed at compelling large
foreign bank holding companies to hold more capital and
liquidity in their American subsidiaries.  Bank of Japan  Executive Director Hiroki Tanaka asked the
Fed Board of Governors in an April 30  letter  to “carefully
consider major concerns” it has about the proposed rule.
Japan’s Financial Services Agency asked that the proposed rule
take into account “deference to home country regulation and
supervision” in a  letter  signed by Masamichi Kono, the
regulator’s vice commissioner for international affairs.  The letters followed an April 26 note by Bundesbank Vice
President Sabine Lautenschlaeger and Bafin President Elke Koenig
to the Fed board that “‘go it alone’ national initiatives can
tend to weaken the global setup and stability” of systemically
important banks “instead of stabilizing them.”  The Fed’s proposal would affect Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s
biggest lender, which last year dropped its bank holding company
status so that it could meet U.S. requirements without assigning
additional capital and liquidity to its unit in the country.
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest publicly
traded bank, has operations in the U.S. including its San
Francisco-based UnionBanCal Corp. unit.  Global Efforts  Tanaka said the Bank of Japan is concerned about the rule’s
“inconsistency” with joint global efforts to enhance the
stability of the global financial system, as well as its “one-
fits-all” approach for liquidity requirements. He asked the Fed
not to impose additional regulatory requirements on U.S. units
of foreign banks that satisfy standards at home.  Fed officials have signaled they are unlikely to back down
because their experience in the financial crisis showed that
some of the biggest borrowers from their emergency facilities
were foreign banking groups in need of dollar funding.  “The proposal is directly responsive to the
vulnerabilities in foreign bank activities observed during and
after the financial crisis,”  Daniel Tarullo , the Fed governor
in charge of bank supervision and regulation, said Dec. 14 when
the rule was proposed. “Many large foreign banking
organizations came to rely heavily on short-term, wholesale U.S.
dollar funding and thereby became subject to destabilizing
runs.”  The Fed’s proposal would require foreign banking operations
with global consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, and U.S.
subsidiaries with $10 billion or more in total assets, to create
an intermediate holding company, which would be required to
maintain the capital and liquidity standards applied to U.S.
bank holding companies.  The units would also be under supervision by the Federal
Reserve, the nation’s bank holding company regulator, face
stress tests, and be required to hold a 30-day buffer of
“highly liquid assets.”  Foreign banking organizations with global consolidated
assets of $50 billion or more would be required to meet the
standards on July 1, 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Russell Ward in Tokyo at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  