-- Jewelry Demand May Revive Gold, Mining Stocks: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2013-05-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/jewelry-demand-may-revive-gold-mining-stocks-chart-of-the-day.html
Growing demand for gold necklaces,
watches and other jewelry may bolster the price of the precious
metal and the shares of mining companies, according to Brian Yu,
a Citigroup Inc. analyst.  As the CHART OF THE DAY shows, smaller year-to-year gains
in gold prices since 2001 have usually coincided with increases
in jewelry purchases, and vice versa. The comparison is based on
quarterly figures compiled by  New York ’s Comex and GFMS Ltd., a
precious-metals research unit of Thomson Reuters Corp.  “We would expect a demand response to weaker pricing,” Yu
wrote two days ago in a report with a similar chart. Gold fell
in April by 7.7 percent, its sixth loss in seven months. During
the month, the metal suffered its biggest two-day decline since
1980 by tumbling 13 percent.  Gold prices and jewelry demand showed a correlation of
negative 0.57 for the past three decades, according to the San
Francisco-based analyst. The correlation could have ranged from
negative 1, which would mean they went in opposite directions,
and 1, which would show they always moved in lockstep.  The precious metal fell 12 percent during the first four
months of this year. Mining stocks did far worse, as the NYSE
Arca Gold Miners Index tumbled 35 percent. Shares of  Newmont
Mining Corp. (NEM) , the largest U.S. producer, dropped 4.6 percent
yesterday on disappointing first-quarter profit and revenue.  Yu cut earnings and share-price estimates on Newmont the
day before the results were released. He’s neutral on the stock
as well as  Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the world’s second-largest gold miner
by market value.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  is his favorite gold stock,
and he recommends buying  Kinross Gold Corp. (K)  as well.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  