-- Knight Capital Reports a Loss Amid Trading Slowdown, Asset Sale
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-05-01T10:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/knight-capital-reports-a-loss-amid-trading-slowdown-asset-sale.html
Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) , the market-
maker that agreed to be sold to Getco LLC following a computer
error, reported a quarterly loss as trading slowed and the
company sold its institutional fixed-income business.  The net loss was $9.4 million, or 3 cents a share, in the
first quarter, compared with a profit of $33.1 million, or 36
cents a share, a year earlier, the  Jersey City , New Jersey-based
company said today. Excluding losses from discontinued
operations and expenses related to the takeover, the August
trading error and a reduction in workforce, earnings were 6
cents a share. That  exceeded  the 4-cent average analyst
estimate, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Revenues from continuing operations were strong despite a
decline in consolidated U.S. equity volume year over year and
the lowest quarterly market volatility in more than five
years,” Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce said in a
statement today.  Knight’s revenue from ongoing operations declined 5.7
percent to $285.2 million from a year earlier. Analysts had
estimated sales of $321.3 million in the quarter.  U.S. exchange-listed equity trading  volume  averaged 6.35
billion shares a day last quarter, down 6 percent from the first
three months of 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Volatility as measured by Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index, or VIX, dropped to the lowest level in six
years amid unprecedented global central bank stimulus as well as
improving economic and corporate data.  Getco Deal  Knight Capital  agreed in December to be purchased by Getco
in a $1.4 billion deal, ending its 17 years of independence.
Getco, a closely held high-frequency trading company, was among
six financial firms that bailed out Knight Capital in August,
after trading glitches caused more than $450 million in losses
and brought the company to the brink of bankruptcy.  Merging Knight Capital and Getco will generate annual
savings of as much as $110 million through cost reductions. The
elimination of redundancies in infrastructure and personnel will
help cut expenses by $20 million to $30 million during the first
year of the merger, according to a statement from Knight last
month. Annual savings will increase to $90 million to $110
million by the third year, the company said.  Knight Capital said in February that it will reduce its
workforce by 5 percent as it combines sales teams and
discontinues its clearing business. The company agreed in March
to sell its institutional fixed-income sales and trading
business to brokerage Stifel Financial Corp. for an undisclosed
amount.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  