-- Kodak Proposes Bankruptcy Exit With Equity Swap for Debt
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-05-01T19:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/kodak-proposes-bankruptcy-exit-with-equity-swap-for-debt.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , the bankrupt
photography pioneer, offered to swap $2.7 billion of unsecured
debt for shares in a new company under a plan to exit court
protection.  The proposal, filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Manhattan, follows an agreement announced this week with Kodak’s
U.K. pension plan under which the Rochester, New York-based
company agreed to spin off its personalized- and document-
imaging businesses for $650 million and settle $2.8 billion of
claims.  “We now have a clear path forward for Kodak,” Antonio Perez, chairman and chief executive officer, said in a statement
yesterday issued by  Business Wire . “We are positioning the
company for a profitable and sustainable future.”  Kodak filed for bankruptcy last year and is reorganizing
around its commercial imaging business. It said it expects to
emerge from bankruptcy in the third quarter.  Under the reorganization plan, current shareholders will be
wiped out, while priority claim holders, secured claim holders
and second-lien creditors, with combined claims of $424 million,
will receive a full recovery, according to the filing. General
unsecured creditors, with claims of $2.7 billion, will get
stock. Kodak didn’t specify their recovery except to say it will
be “better than liquidation.”  The proposed reorganization plan must be approved by U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper, who is overseeing the case. A
hearing will probably occur in mid-June, Kodak said, with a vote
by creditors on the proposal to follow.  The bankruptcy case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  