-- N.Y. Taxi Smartphone Hail Program Said to Be Blocked
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-05-01T21:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/n-y-taxi-smartphone-hail-program-said-to-be-blocked.html
New York  livery car groups won a bid
to block a pilot program that would enable people to hail and
pay for a ride in one of the city’s 13,000 yellow taxis using
location-based smartphone applications.  The measure adopted by the New York City Taxi & Limousine
Commission in December would run for 12 months and exempt areas
such as airports that have provisions for taxi lines. While all
licensed city cab drivers would be eligible, their participation
would be optional.  The Livery Roundtable, Black Car Assistance Corp. and
several car-service firms sued the TLC in February, claiming the
program violates city codes and may let drivers discriminate
against racial minorities based on their names or locations, as
well as the elderly, who are less likely to own smartphones.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Carole Huff in
 Manhattan  last week dismissed the lawsuit and lifted her March 7
order blocking the program. Today, Associate Justice Helen E. Freedman of the Appellate Division,  First Department , issued an
emergency injunction blocking the program from going forward and
ordered expedited review by a full panel of appeals court
judges, Randy Mastro, an attorney for the livery cab companies
with Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP, said in an e-mail.  Mastro said he expects the appeals court to hear arguments
on the case this month.  ‘Fundamentally Flawed’  “This faux ‘pilot program’ is so fundamentally flawed and
illegal in so many respects that it had to be stopped,” Mastro
said in an e-mail. “And now it once again has been.”  Kate O’Brien Ahlers, a spokeswoman for the city’s Law
Department, said in an e-mail that she had no immediate comment
on today’s ruling, which couldn’t be verified in court records
right away.  South of Manhattan’s 59th Street, the smartphone program
would be restricted to pickups within a half-mile
(0.8 kilometer) range, according to Huff’s decision. Elsewhere
in the city, the range would extend to 1 1/2 miles. Smartphone
application providers would be subject to Taxi & Limousine
Commission approval.  The commission today said it approved Hailo Network USA
Inc. as the second participant in the program, joining Uber
Technologies Inc.  The case is Black Car Assistance Corp. v. City of New York,
100327-2013,  Supreme Court  for the State of New York, County of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  