-- NHL Playoff Openers End With 2-1 OT Wins for Blackhawks, Blues
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-05-01T05:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/nhl-playoffs-begin-with-2-1-overtime-wins-for-blackhawks-blues.html
The  Chicago  Blackhawks and the St.
Louis Blues both won 2-1 in overtime, while the Anaheim Ducks
topped the Detroit Red Wings 3-1, in the first games of the
National Hockey League playoffs.  The Blackhawks beat the Minnesota Wild last night, while
the Blues defeated the defending Stanley Cup champion Los
Angeles Kings as all three home teams won.  The top-seeded Pittsburgh Penguins host the  New York 
Islanders and the Toronto Maple Leafs travel to the Boston
Bruins in tonight’s Eastern Conference games. The Vancouver
Canucks host the San Jose Sharks in the Western Conference.  Cal Clutterbuck gave the Wild a first-period lead at United
Center in Chicago and Marian Hossa tied it in the second for the
2010 champion Blackhawks. Bryan Bickell got the winning goal
after 16 minutes, 35 seconds of overtime.  “It’s a great feeling,” Bickell said in a televised
interview.  Game 2 in the best-of-seven first-round series is scheduled
for May 3 in Chicago.  Alexander Steen got both goals for the Blues. He put St.
Louis ahead on a power play midway through the first period and
it remained 1-0 until 32 seconds before the end of the third
period, when Justin Williams found the net for the Kings to send
the game into overtime. Steen got the winner on a short-handed
goal 13:26 into the extra period.  “When the puck went down, I figured I’d try and put some
pressure and I got fortunate it hit my stick,” Steen said.  The teams will reconvene tomorrow at the Scottrade Center
in St. Louis for Game 2.  Nick Bonino gave the Ducks a power-play goal midway through
the first period on home ice at the Honda Center. Daniel Cleary
tied the game with a power-play goal six minutes later. Teemu Selanne scored the go-ahead goal for the Ducks 89 seconds into
the final period, and Francois Beauchemin added an empty-net
goal with 23 seconds remaining.  The Ducks host Game 2 tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  