-- Nissan Forecasts Deliveries in China Will Increase 6% This Year
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2013-05-01T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/nissan-forecasts-deliveries-in-china-will-increase-6-this-year.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , the third-biggest
global carmaker in China, expects sales in the country to rise
about 6 percent this year as anti-Japan sentiment subsides in
the world’s biggest auto market.  Deliveries in China will probably increase to 1.25 million
units in 2013 after falling to 1.18 million last year, Executive
Vice President  Andy Palmer  said in an e-mail interview
yesterday. Nissan would be projecting higher growth had it not
stopped counting some cars that used to recognized in past
tallies, he said, without elaborating.  Nissan, like  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co., is
still recuperating from last year, when protests flared across
China because of a diplomatic dispute over a group of
uninhabited islands claimed by both countries, leading consumers
to shun Japanese-branded cars. While the demonstrations have
subsided, Japan’s three-largest carmakers all saw sales fall in
the country last quarter.  More representative of underlying growth are sales of
passenger vehicles by Nissan’s venture with Dongfeng Motor,
which will probably increase 16 percent to 900,000 units this
year, Palmer said.  Nissan expects deliveries in China to begin rising in May
thanks to the introductions of the Teana sedan and Lavina multi-
purpose vehicle, according to Palmer.  The company, which trails only  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  in sales among global automakers in China, is
counting on the Teana sedan -- introduced late February -- to
revive sales in the country. It’s the most profitable of the
dozen-plus models the automaker sells in the country, according
to Sanford C. Bernstein estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  