-- Nortel Fight for $7 Billion Slowed by Appeal, Lawyers Say
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-05-02T13:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/nortel-fight-for-7-billion-slowed-by-appeal-lawyers-say.html
A court fight over more than $7
billion raised for bondholders and other creditors of  Nortel
Networks Corp. (NRTLQ)  will be delayed unless a judge finds that
European units of the defunct telephone maker filed a
“frivolous” appeal, company lawyers said yesterday.  The European units want to ask a federal appeals court in
Philadelphia to force all sides into private, binding
arbitration. The units, known as the EMEA debtors, plan to
appeal a decision by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in
Wilmington,  Delaware , rejecting arbitration and scheduling next
year’s court fight over how best to divide the cash.  Once filed, the appeal may prevent parties from preparing
for the court fight until the appellate panel ruled, causing a
delay, James L. Bromley, Nortel’s lead U.S. bankruptcy attorney,
said in court.  “The EMEA debtors are taking their litigation cues from
Dickens’s ‘Bleak House,’” Bromley said in an interview after
the hearing. In the 19th-century book by  Charles Dickens , a
court case lasts so long that all the money from an English
estate is eaten up by legal fees.  Nortel’s U.S. unit and its U.S. bondholders and creditors
want Gross to declare the appeal frivolous, a finding that would
allow preparations for next year’s court fight to start. Gross
is also being asked by both sides to certify that the appeal of
his decision is important enough to merit quicker-than-normal
action by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Philadelphia.  ‘Frivolous Appeal’  “I wonder what the Third Circuit is going to say if it
sees I am certifying a frivolous appeal,” Gross said, prompting
laughter from attorneys in the room.  Nortel, which was based in Mississauga, Ontario, filed for
bankruptcy in Canada, the U.S., the U.K. and  France , with
various units under the control of separate teams of lawyers and
under the jurisdiction of different courts.  Gross said he is confident his decision rejecting
arbitration will be upheld on appeal. He said he wanted to spend
the next few days deciding how he would rule and would try to
issue a decision next week.  Units of the bankrupt company in the U.S., Canada and
 Europe  are scheduled to battle over the money in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in Wilmington next year. Before that showdown can begin,
the units, which no longer have any operations, must spend
months preparing their cases by exchanging documents and
interviewing witnesses under oath.  2009 Filing  Since the company filed bankruptcy in January 2009, one set
of Nortel bonds climbed from less than 14 cents on the dollar to
a high of 118 cents. The value climbed as bankruptcy lawyers,
led by the law firm  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP ,
organized a series of auctions that netted billions of dollars
more than the opening bids.  The U.S. company spends more on attorneys for itself and
various creditor groups than it does on employees, according to
operating reports filed monthly with the  bankruptcy court  in
Delaware.  U.K. bankruptcy officials are leading the fight for the
European for a share of the $7 billion raised by selling
Nortel’s U.S. assets. The U.K. officials claim Nortel’s U.S. and
Canadian  units siphoned money from the European units for
years, leaving them unable to pay pensioners and other
creditors. The U.K. administrators are demanding $2.67 billion
from Nortel’s main U.S. unit to pay retirees, according to court
papers.  Shrinking Cash  The groups have been fighting over a shrinking pile of cash
that won’t cover all of the debts owed by Nortel and its units.
Creditors have presented more than $36 billion in claims in
 Canada , according to a status report filed in October.  Nortel’s U.S. and Canadian units have $9 billion in cash to
distribute to creditors, with more than $7 billion held in
escrow accounts until courts decide how it should be divided.  Nortel 6.88 percent bonds that mature in 2023 fell almost 3
percent to 51.6 cents on the dollar yesterday, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  The case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-bk-10138, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  