-- Nova Sees TSMC Order Boost on Phones: Israel Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-05-01T22:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/nova-sees-tsmc-order-boost-on-phones-israel-overnight.html
Nova Measuring Instruments Ltd. (NVMI) , the
Israeli maker of process control systems, expects sales to jump
from the second half as Asian chipmakers increase spending to
meet smartphone demand in the region, according to the chief
executive officer.  Orders for  Nova (NVMI) ’s products for phone chips measuring 20
nanometers or less from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  supplier  Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co. (2330)  will rise this year, Nova CEO Gabi Seligsohn
said in a phone interview yesterday from  Tel Aviv . Shares of
Nova, based in Rehovot, Israel, gained 1.9 percent to a seven-
week high of $9.34 in  New York , while the Bloomberg Israel-US
Equity Index of the biggest Israeli stocks in the U.S. slipped
0.4 percent yesterday.  “What has a direct influence on us is that some time
during the second half of this year, TSMC will start to place
more massive orders for 20-nanometers while most of the orders
will take place in 2014,” Seligsohn said. “A lot of the
driving is from mobile and we’re seeing the same thing from the
other foundries.”  Nova, which has gained 17 percent in U.S. trading this
year, reported April 30 a 21 percent jump in first-quarter  sales 
to $27.4 million, beating the $26 million mean of two analysts’
estimates. TSMC, the world’s largest contract chipmaker whose
products power Apple’s iPhones, will boost spending by as much
as 10 percent this year on demand for the 20-nanometer
technology, Chairman  Morris Chang  said April 19.  China Sales  Apple’s sales in the greater China region, the world’s
largest market for computers and handsets, rose 11 percent to a
record $8.8 billion during the fiscal second quarter, CEO  Tim
Cook  said on a conference call April 23. The region represented
19 percent of the company’s sales in the quarter.  One nanometer, equal to one billionth of a meter, measures
the size of connections within a chip. A smaller number implies
more advanced technology, allowing semiconductors to be smaller
and more powerful.  “We’ve definitely trended very strongly in the direction
of  Asia  together with the industry,” Seligsohn said. The region
has accounted for 75 percent to 90 percent of Nova’s revenue
over the last two years, he said.  Nova forecasts sales to grow as much as 5.2 percent from a
year earlier to $28.5 million in the second quarter, with
earnings declining at least 50 percent to 7 cents a share,
Seligsohn said on a conference call with analysts on April 30.  Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. (981)  in China is
also increasing investment for low-end smartphone chips used in
the nation’s second-generation networks, Seligsohn said.  ‘Humongous Opportunity’  “China is an extremely interesting market in the sense
that on the one hand, the high-end smartphone market is a status
symbol, and you’ll see the nouveau riche and middle class
carrying that,” he said. “But this monstrous market of lower-
income people starting to be addressed now by smartphone, that
sounds like a humongous opportunity.”  TSMC representatives at the company’s corporate
communication division couldn’t be reached outside of business
hours in  Taiwan .  Nova shares jumped 3.1 percent to 33.02 shekels, or $9.23,
in Tel Aviv yesterday. The benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  fell 0.2
percent, trimming a 1.6 percent advance in 2013.  BioLineRX Ltd. (BLRX)  slipped 1.1 percent to $1.80 in New York
yesterday, the lowest level since April 9. The stock fell for a
fourth day, the longest losing streak since March 14.  The company will decide whether to end the development of
an experimental schizophrenia treatment in “about July”, after
it failed to help patients in a mid-stage trial, CEO Kinneret
Savitsky said in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New
York.  ‘Still Alive’  “The study was terminated, the project is still alive,”
Savitsky said. “We expect it to be terminated unless we see
something surprising” while analyzing data of the study.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s biggest
generic drugmaker, slipped for a second day, dropping 0.5
percent to a one-week low of $38.10.  The company is scheduled to release first-quarter results
today. Sales declined 4.9 percent from a year earlier to $4.85
billion, according to the average forecast of 19 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg. Net income rose 9.2 percent to $938
million, analysts’ average projection shows.  Orbotech Ltd. (ORBK) , which makes gear used to test televisions
and smartphones, declined 3 percent to $9.94, retreating the
most in a month. It had the biggest drop on the Israel-U.S.
gauge.  Alon Holdings Blue Square Israel Ltd. (BSI) , an Israeli
supermarket retailer, climbed 2.7 percent in its eighth day of
rally to $3.86, the highest price since April 4.  Blue Square, which owns the Mega, Shefa Shuk and Eden
Nature store chains, joined other Israeli grocers in raising
prices by as much as 8 percent in the first quarter as protests
over rising living costs diminished, according to  Israel 
Brokerage & Investments Ltd. IBI projected a 30 percent rally in
the next 12 months for the Rosh Ha’Ayin-based company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  