-- Novo Nordisk First-Quarter Profit Climbs on Insulins, Victoza
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-05-01T05:46:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/novo-nordisk-first-quarter-profit-climbs-on-insulins-victoza.html
Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) , the world’s largest
insulin maker, reported a 28 percent increase in first-quarter
profit on higher sales of its insulins and the Victoza diabetes
treatment.  Net income climbed to 5.98 billion kroner ($1.1 billion),
Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based Novo Nordisk said in a statement today.
That beat the 5.82 billion kroner  average estimate  of 20
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sales of its so-called modern insulins, including Levemir,
climbed 14 percent to 8.99 billion kroner, the company said.
Sales of Victoza, which mimics a hormone called GLP-1 and
stimulates natural insulin production, jumped 35 percent to 2.68
billion kroner in the quarter. Although Novo is introducing a
new insulin in  Europe , called Tresiba, the company faced a
setback in February when U.S. regulators rejected the product.  “Earnings continue on their way, without U.S. Tresiba,”
Brian Bourdot and other analysts at Barclays Plc’s investment-
banking unit in  London  wrote in a April 23 note to clients.  The  Food and Drug Administration  demanded a new study to
assess the heart risk of Tresiba, delaying its entry in the
biggest drug market by at least two years. Novo developed the
medicine to challenge Sanofi’s top-selling Lantus, which
garnered 4.96 billion euros ($6.5 billion) in sales last year.
Tresiba, approved in Europe, is already sold in  Denmark  and the
U.K. as well as in  Japan .  Slow, Steady  “We expect a slow and steady uptake in Europe given the
need to go through significant reimbursement discussions,
lingering uncertainty around cardiovascular safety and a fierce
marketing effort by Sanofi,” Mark Dainty and other analysts at
Citigroup Global Markets wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  Novo raised its 2013 forecast for sales growth excluding
currency shifts to 9 percent to 11 percent, though it kept its
operating profit target. Full-year revenue was previously
expected to climb 8 percent to 11 percent excluding currency
shifts as operating profit on that level gains about 10 percent.  U.S. regulators in March also put Victoza, a key drug for
Novo, on watch for a potential link to pancreatic cancer. Novo
says the product is safe and the company continually monitors
its safety profile.  Victoza is a once-daily injection, which
competes with  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s twice-daily Byetta and
a once-weekly version of the product, called Bydureon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  