-- Nuggets Top Warriors to Avoid Playoff Elimination; Grizzlies Win
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-05-01T05:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/nuggets-beat-warriors-107-100-to-avoid-nba-playoff-elimination.html
The  Denver Nuggets  responded to the
threat of elimination in the first round of the National
Basketball Association playoffs for a ninth time in 10 years
with a 107-100 home win against the Golden State Warriors.  In the other NBA game last night, the Memphis Grizzlies
defeated the host Los Angeles Clippers 103-93 to take a 3-2 lead
in their best-of-seven series.  In tonight’s games, the New York Knicks try to wrap up
their series in five games as they host the Boston Celtics, the
Indiana Pacers return home with their series tied 2-2 against
the Atlanta Hawks and the Oklahoma City Thunder need a victory
at home to eliminate the Houston Rockets.  The third-seeded Nuggets still trail the Warriors by three
games to two and will exit the postseason with a loss in Game 6
of the best-of-seven series tomorrow in Oakland, California.  Andre Iguodala  had 25 points, 12 rebounds and seven assists
for Denver, which got 19 points apiece from Ty Lawson and  Wilson Chandler . Harrison Barnes had 23 points and nine rebounds for
Golden State.  Warriors coach Mark Jackson said the Nuggets were trying to
hurt point guard Stephen Curry, who finished with 15 points.  “Some dirty plays early,” Jackson told reporters. “It’s
playoff basketball, that’s all right. We own it. But make no
mistake about it, we went up 3-1 playing hard, physical, clean
basketball -- not trying to hurt anybody.”  The second-seeded San Antonio Spurs await the winner of the
Nuggets-Warriors series. Sixth-seeded Golden State is in the
playoffs for the second time since 1995.  At Staples Center in Los Angeles,  Zach Randolph  had 25
points and 11 rebounds,  Marc Gasol  added 21 points and Mike Conley scored 20 for the Grizzlies, who can wrap up the series
at home in Game 6 on May 3.  Chris Paul  had 35 points for the Clippers and Jamal Crawford came off the bench to score 15 points.  Blake Griffin 
scored four points while being limited to 20 minutes for Los
Angeles by an ankle injury.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  