-- NYSE CEO Tells SEC He Opposes Exchange for Small Firms
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-05-14T15:21:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/nyse-ceo-tells-sec-he-opposes-new-exchange-for-small-companies.html
(Corrects description of NYSE in 16th paragraph of story
originally published May 1.)  The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission shouldn’t encourage the creation of a separate stock
exchange for small public companies, the head of  NYSE Euronext (NYX) 
told an SEC advisory committee today.  NYSE Chief Executive Officer Duncan L. Niederauer, in a
presentation to the panel, underscored an effort by three large
U.S. exchanges to limit the dispersion of trading beyond their
venues. The CEOs of NYSE,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and Bats Global
Markets Inc. met with SEC officials last month about policy
changes that would restrict off-exchange trading in venues such
as dark pools.  “We believe we’ve presented data that would suggest the
more opaque the markets get, the wider the spread gets,”
Niederauer told the SEC’s Advisory Committee on Small and
Emerging Companies. “We think that it’s particularly an issue
for these more thinly traded stocks.”  The SEC advisory committee recommended on Feb. 1 the
creation of a separate exchange to promote trading in shares of
public companies with market values of less than $250 million.
The exchange would loosen regulations and encourage more
businesses to go public, the committee recommended.
Participation could be restricted to accredited investors, who
have annual income greater than $200,000 and net worth higher
than $1 million excluding home value.  Fewer IPOs  The advisory committee is pushing the plan amid concern
that computerized trading and regulations approved over the past
decade have discouraged smaller companies from going public.  The number of initial public offerings by small U.S.
businesses has fallen to 54 in 2012, or 31 percent of all IPOs,
from 110 in 2004, or 37 percent, according to data Niederauer
presented today. The country needs more emerging-company IPOs to
improve job growth, Niederauer said.  Data presented today by William R. Hambrecht showed the
number of IPOs that raised less than $25 million dropped from 9
in 2001 to 1 in 2012.  Nasdaq CEO  Robert Greifeld  told the committee that its
goals could be addressed by allowing companies to provide
incentive payments to market makers and to restrict trading in
the stock to the exchange where they are listed.  The fragmented nature of U.S. equity markets, where stocks
trade on 14 exchanges and about 40 dark pools, inhibits trading
in small stocks, Greifeld said.  “There should be a market-maker support pilot program,”
Greifeld said. “They could provide economic support for more
aggressive trading and quoting in their stocks.”  Market Makers  U.S. regulators have already approved Nasdaq Stock Market’s
request to allow the sponsors of some exchange-traded funds to
offer payments to market makers. The Securities and Exchange
Commission’s decision loosened a ban on the compensation that
has been in place since 1997.  Greifeld said an exclusive relationship between an
“emerging growth company” and one exchange would allow the
market maker to increase trading in the stock. The 2012
Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act defined an emerging growth
company as one with less than $1 billion in annual revenue.  The SEC would have to approve what  Nasdaq  called its
“liquidity concentration program.” Greifeld said he wasn’t
sure if Nasdaq would petition the SEC to propose a regulation
allowing it.  “We are not going to instantaneously create a deep and
liquid market, but it will certainly be an easier path to get
there,” Greifeld told the committee.  Greifeld, who met privately with new SEC chairman Mary Jo White today, said the proposal isn’t part of the effort to limit
trading that happens away from exchanges.  Tick Size  The NYSE, the largest U.S. equities exchange, supports a
separate committee recommendation to encourage trading of small
stocks by increasing the minimum quoting increment, Niederauer
said. That increment, known as tick size, was reduced from
sixteenths of a dollar to one penny in 2001, which reduced
profits for market makers and reduced their willingness to buy
and sell less liquid stocks, Niederauer said.  The SEC is studying how to structure a pilot program to
test wider tick sizes for small public companies. Such a program
should include 300 to 500 companies and should last at least two
years, Niederauer said.  “You have support for this not only from the issuer
community, but also from from the trading and exchange
community,” Niederauer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  