-- Obama Chooses Watt to Lead Fannie Mae Regulator
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-05-01T19:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/obama-said-to-choose-watt-to-lead-fannie-mae-regulator.html
President  Barack Obama  nominated
Representative Mel Watt to be director of the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency  after months of political pressure from consumer
advocates to find a new overseer for  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac .  Watt, a North Carolina Democrat whose appointment must be
confirmed by the Senate, would replace Edward J. DeMarco, whose
tenure as FHFA acting director has been embraced by Republicans
and faulted by housing activists who accuse him of blocking debt
reduction for some troubled borrowers.  “Mel understands as well as anybody what caused the
housing crisis,” Obama said at a news conference in  Washington 
today. “He knows what it’s going to take to help responsible
homeowners fully recover.”  FHFA is the regulator for  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac, the
two mortgage-finance companies that have operated under federal
conservatorship since they were seized amid soaring losses
during the 2008 credit crisis. Watt’s nomination comes at a
pivotal moment for the government-sponsored enterprises, which
back half of outstanding home loans and have returned to soaring
profits after drawing more than $187.5 billion in taxpayer aid.  Confirmation of Watt is far from certain. His voting record
as a member of the House Financial Services Committee, which
handles housing issues, and his support for reducing debt for
troubled borrowers could hurt his chances of Republican support
needed to get the nomination to the Senate floor.  Principal Reduction  Along with other lawmakers, Watt signed a December 2012
letter to Obama and congressional leaders urging them to include
principal reduction for borrowers with Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac loans in legislation averting the so-called fiscal cliff.  Senators  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee  and  David Vitter  of
 Louisiana , both Republicans who serve on the Banking Committee,
released statements criticizing Obama’s choice.  “I could not be more disappointed in this nomination,”
said Corker. “This gives new meaning to the adage that the fox
is guarding the hen house.”  The nomination was praised by congressional Democrats
including Senator  Elizabeth Warren , a Banking Committee member
from  Massachusetts  who called Watt an “excellent choice.”  To win the 60 votes he’ll need for confirmation, Watt will
have to get the support of at least five Republicans if he’s
backed by all 55 members who caucus with the Democrats.  Watt, a lawyer first elected to the House in 1992,
represents a  Charlotte  district that includes the headquarters
of  Bank of America  Corp. In 2005, he was elected chairman of the
Congressional Black Caucus, a post he held until 2006. He co-
sponsored the 2009 Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility
and Disclosure Act, which required more disclosures for consumer
credit products.  Confirmation Odds  Brian Gardner , senior vice president for Washington
research at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc., put the odds of Watt
getting confirmed at “less than 50-50.”  “I don’t think it’s as much a policy debate as about the
nominee himself and whether he has the skills to run and manage
an agency that runs two very large and complex and critically
important companies,” Gardner said in a telephone interview.  “Maybe in his confirmation hearing he can answer his
critics and placate them a little bit, but I think he has a bit
of a high bar to show he has the technical skills.”  Watt was investigated by the Office of Congressional Ethics
for withdrawing a proposal for more stringent regulations of
auto dealers after a series of fundraisers in 2009. After he was
cleared in 2010, Watt said he did nothing improper.  ‘Nothing Improper’  “While the decision of the Office of Congressional Ethics
cannot restore my reputation, I am thankful that the review has
been completed and that it concluded that I did nothing improper
or unethical,” Watt said in a September 2010 statement.  Lawmakers created FHFA in 2008, shortly before regulators
seized Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac. (FMCC)  During DeMarco’s time as
their regulator, the two companies have swung from surviving on
taxpayer life support to posting record profits.  Homeowner advocates launched a campaign last year to oust
DeMarco because he refused to cut principal on the grounds that
it would hurt the companies’ bottom line. A group called
National People’s Action sent 500 protesters to DeMarco’s house
in suburban Washington on April 21.  “This is a good day for millions of homeowners,” Tracy
Van Slyke, director of the #DumpDeMarco campaign, said in a
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  