-- Tohoku Electric Mulls Using Forward Contracts to Hedge Yen Risk
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2013-05-01T04:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/tohoku-electric-mulls-using-forward-contracts-to-hedge-yen-risk.html
Tohoku Electric Power Co. (9506) , which uses
thermal power to generate nearly 90 percent of its electricity,
is considering forward exchange contracts to hedge against a
weaker yen that is pushing up imported fossil fuel costs.  The Miyagi-based company may use the contracts because it
can’t pass on part of the higher costs resulting from the loss
of nuclear power generation to consumers, Katsuyuki Takahashi,
deputy general manager at Tohoku’s accounting department, said
in a phone interview last week. The size of the contracts and
the timing of purchases hasn’t been decided, he said.  Japanese power companies had combined losses of about 1.6
trillion yen ($16.4 billion) in fiscal 2012 as the yen’s decline
raised the cost of imported natural gas, crude and coal to fill
the gap left by the nuclear power shutdown after the March 2011
Fukushima disaster. The yen has fallen 18 percent against the
dollar in the past year, making it the biggest decliner among
Group of 10 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The weaker yen will raise imported fuel bills for power
companies by 700 billion yen this fiscal year compared with the
previous year, according to an estimate by a government advisory
board released in April. At the same time, Japanese manufactures
ranging from Toyota Motor Corp. to Sony Corp. stand to benefit
from the currency’s slide because it makes their products more
competitive and boosts overseas earnings.  Tohoku Electric’s four atomic reactors, which are capable
of generating 3,270 megawatts, produced no electricity in fiscal
2012 for the second consecutive year. The company’s fiscal 2012
fuel cost rose by 8.3 percent to 555 billion yen, or one-third
of its ordinary expenses, from a year earlier partly because of
the yen, it said last week.  Yen Impact  Profit fell by 6 billion yen for every 1 yen drop against
the dollar in fiscal 2012, according to Tohoku Electric. It had
a net loss of 103.7 billion yen last fiscal year, a period when
the yen declined about 15 percent.  Forward exchange contracts were used “on a trial basis”
between 2000 and 2007, spokesman Takashi Suzuki said by phone.
He declined to comment on details, including why the company
stopped using the contracts.  Under a forward exchange contract, two parties agree to buy
or sell one currency for another at a future date at a fixed
rate.  All but two of  Japan ’s 50 reactors are offline and must
pass new safety rules, which will take effect in July, before
resuming operations. Tohoku Electric expects to restart its
Higashidori plant in July 2015 and three reactors at the Onagawa
station in fiscal 2016 or later, it said in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  