-- Oklahoma Wheat Output Seen Falling 45% on Adverse Weather
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-05-01T19:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/oklahoma-wheat-output-seen-falling-45-on-adverse-weather.html
Wheat output in  Oklahoma , the second-
biggest U.S. grower of winter varieties, may tumble 45 percent
this year because of drought and freeze damage, said Debbie
Wedel, a spokeswoman for the Oklahoma Wheat Commission.  Production  may drop to 85.5 million bushels from 154.8
million a year earlier, Wedel said today in an interview in
Buffalo, Oklahoma, as part of a three-day tour of fields in
Kansas and Oklahoma by analysts, farmers and grain traders.  “Normal yields in the Oklahoma panhandle are 25 to 30
bushels an acre,” she said. “Farmers would be happy to get
that this year. This is not a good year.”  Yields in southwest Kansas and northwest Oklahoma were
estimated at 24.8 bushel an acre today, and crops are about
three to four weeks behind normal growth, a survey of 17 fields
on the second day of the tour showed. A year earlier, the
 average  was 32.4 bushel in southwest  Kansas , according to U.S.
Department of Agriculture data.  “It’s as bad or worse than last year,” Mark Hodges of
Plains Grains Inc., a tour participant, said in an interview.
Plants that are behind normal growth stages will be developing
in hot weather in four to six weeks, he said.  Temperatures for the first 18 days of April in the area
were the coldest since record keeping began in 1895, according
to Mary Knapp, a state climatologist.  Yesterday, the yield in central Kansas was projected at
43.8 bushels after a survey of 277 fields. Last year, the
average yield was 44 bushel in that district and 44.5 bushels in
the north-central area.  About 75 growers, traders and analysts are touring the
state, the top grower of winter varieties, and Oklahoma.  Wheat futures for July delivery fell 0.9 percent to close
at $7.8225 today on the Kansas City Board of Trade. The price
has dropped 5.9 percent this year, partly on speculation that
global grain production will increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  