-- Oman Sovereign Wealth Fund Focuses on Local Deals After Protests
-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2013-05-01T07:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/oman-sovereign-wealth-fund-focuses-on-local-deals-after-protests.html
The Omani sovereign wealth fund is
boosting investment in tourism, mining and fisheries and
reducing the proportion of its assets overseas as part of plans
to soothe social discontent after protests two years ago.  The fund is seeking to have 70 percent of its assets in
Oman and 30 percent in other  emerging markets , compared with a
current balance of 50-50, Chief Executive Officer Hassan Al-
Nabhani said yesterday in an interview in Dubai, declining to
give the value of the fund. It’s also looking at opportunities
in  India ’s manufacturing industries, he said.  “We are trying to rejuvenate and achieve developmental
goals in Oman through investments that are all commercially
disciplined and seeking returns,” Al-Nabhani said.  Sultan Qaboos Bin Said has been taking measures to increase
pay, create jobs and improve political representation after his
forces repressed demonstrations that broke out mostly in the
northern coastal city of Sohar. Those followed uprisings against
poverty and dictatorships that shook Arab countries in 2011 and
that led to regime change in  Tunisia ,  Egypt ,  Libya  and Yemen.  Discontent in Oman was exacerbated by the nation’s
proximity to richer oil-producing neighbors like the  United Arab
Emirates  and Qatar. With a population of 2.7 million Omanis and
600,000 expatriates, it produces just about 850,000 barrels of
oil a day. The U.A.E., with a population of 5.5 million of which
20 percent are nationals, produces 2.7 million barrels a day.  Municipal Elections  Oman last year held its first municipal elections and the
Sultan in March pardoned activists sentenced to jail for taking
part in the 2011 protests.  “The jewel of the crown is tourism, Oman is yet to reach
its full potential in tourism,” Al-Nabhani said. “We think
Oman has the potential to grow quite substantive fish farming
throughout its coast; we are also quite keen on developing the
mining sector, we have a number of resources, metal and non-
metal reserves that are proven and ready to be invested.”  The Omani Investment Fund operates similarly to a private
equity firm, working with government capital invested over
periods of five to seven years, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  