-- Home Retail Outlook Brightens as Retailer Plans an Online Future
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-05-01T09:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/home-retail-sees-another-tough-year-ahead-as-profit-declines-10-.html
Home Retail  Group Plc said it’s less
cautious about the outlook for sales this year as an expanded
multi-channel offering and wider product range attract more
shoppers to U.K. store chains Argos and Homebase.  Revenue in both businesses is expected to be “flat to
slightly up,” Chief Executive Officer Terry Duddy said today on
a conference call after reporting a 10 percent decline in annual
earnings. Duddy said he’s “optimistic that actually it’s going
to be a better summer to come.”  Home Retail is seeking to transform Argos into a leader in
digital retailing while adding Habitat and Laura Ashley
concessions inside Homebase stores to stimulate sales that are
lower than they were seven years ago. The retailer has pledged
to invest 175 million pounds ($272 million) a year over the
coming three financial years to bring the plan to fruition.  “The current trading statement is a little more positive
than previous statements,” Freddie George, an analyst at Cantor
Fitzgerald  Europe , said by e-mail. “We still believe it will be
a challenge for the company to improve earnings even with a
cyclical upturn,” said George, who has a hold recommendation.  The  shares  rose 1.5 percent to 158.1 pence at 9:24 a.m. in
 London . They’ve climbed 25 percent this year.  Pretax profit in the year ended March 2 declined to 91
million pounds, Home Retail said, matching analyst estimates.
Sales were little changed at 5.48 billion pounds as bad weather
and low consumer confidence hurt sales of seasonal items and
larger products such as kitchens at Homebase.  Increased Share  Both Argos and Homebase increased their share of the market
last year, the company said. Online sales at Argos rose 10
percent and represented 42 percent of the chain’s revenue.  Argos is testing a series of new formats in the north-east
of  England , including a new digital catalog with fewer, mostly
seasonal products and an expanded online offering of items for
next-day delivery, Duddy said.  “The last 12 months have seen consumers really embrace
shopping across different channels and, in particular, utilizing
the convenience of click-and-collect services,” said Matt
Piner, research director at market researcher Conlumino.
“However, the task ahead is still extremely tough and
competition will be fiercer.”  Duddy said shareholders aren’t yet “absolutely convinced”
on the strategy outlined six months ago. Home Retail is funding
the plan with its own cash and is debt-free, he said.  Homebase Refurbishments  Homebase is refurbishing 15 of its 336 stores this year,
increasing staff numbers and adding more “ideas and
inspiration” for homes and gardens, Duddy said. Sales are
expected to increase by 20 percent in refitted stores, he said.  Industry conditions in the coming 12 months will be similar
to last year, with spending still being affected by low  consumer
confidence  and inflationary pressures, Home Retail said.  The retailer said it will pay a final  dividend  of 2 pence a
share, giving a payout for the year of 3 pence. The company
didn’t pay a final dividend in the previous year after making a
first-half distribution to investors of 4.7 pence a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  