-- Honda Accord Tops Camry in U.S. as Asian Brands Lose Share
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-05-02T00:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/honda-accord-tops-camry-in-mid-size-duel-as-fusion-passes-altima.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s Accord outsold
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Camry, the perennial best-seller among cars
in the U.S., last month as gains for resurgent U.S.-based
automakers surpassed those of Japanese and South Korean brands.  Honda delivered 33,538 Accords in April, according to a
statement from the Tokyo-based company, and also beat analysts’
estimates for the month with a 7.4 percent increase in Honda and
Acura brand sales. Toyota reported sales of 31,710 Camrys, while
total deliveries of Toyota, Lexus and Scion models fell 1.1
percent, missing estimates.  “Toyota is in a little bit of a holding pattern,” said
Larry Dominique, president of TrueCar Inc.’s ALG and a former
 Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  product planner. “They’re waiting for new
product to come out and being pretty disciplined” with
incentives.  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, is pressing to keep
Camry the top-selling U.S. car for a 12th consecutive year after
the arrival of the revamped Accord, new Nissan Altima and  Ford
Motor Co. (F) ’s reworked Fusion sedan. Ford, General Motors Co. and
Chrysler Group LLC all posted  U.S. sales  gains in April that
build on their first-quarter sweep of market-share increases,
the first in two decades.  Industrywide sales of new cars and trucks grew 8.5 percent
in April to 1.29 million units, according to Woodcliff Lake, New
Jersey-based Autodata Corp. Asian brands’ share of the market
was 43.8 percent last month, down 1.5 percentage points from a
year earlier, while traditional U.S. brands gained 2.1 points to
46.9 percent, according to Autodata. The U.S.-based brands’
figure excludes Chrysler’s sales of the Fiat 500 car.  Mid-Size Race  Camry failed to hold the top spot for a second straight
month, after trailing Nissan’s Altima in March. Ford said it
sold 26,722 redesigned Fusions, taking third among the mid-size
models, even as monthly sales of the Altima surged 35 percent
from a year earlier to 21,991. Deliveries fell 14 percent for
the Camry and 5.2 percent for the Accord.  “Camry has lost a bit of its luster this year,” Alec Gutierrez, an auto analyst for Kelley Blue Book in  Irvine ,
 California , said in a telephone interview. “If I had to pick
one rival for segment champion this year, it would be Accord.
That’s the one to watch in 2013.”  Top Spot  Toyota has said it intends to sell at least 400,000 Camrys
in the U.S. this year and retain the top spot.  “At the end of the day, people see the new Fusion and like
it and the Accord is doing well,” Bill Fay, group vice
president for U.S. sales for Toyota City, Japan-based Toyota,
said in an April 26 interview. “Our goal, in spite of better
competition, is for Camry to stay No. 1.”  This year through April, Camry still holds the lead, with
132,540 to the Accord’s 121,965.  Ford is still increasing Fusion production and isn’t likely
to surpass Camry this year, Gutierrez said. “In 2014, Fusion is
going to be in the running for volume leader,” he said.  Consumer Reports, the non-profit Yonkers, New York-based
magazine, in January qualified its praise for the 2013 Fusion,
citing improved design and interior materials, as well as fuel
economy that fell short of official ratings; problems using the
MyFord Touch infotainment system, and fit and finish flaws. The
magazine withheld its “recommended” assessment for the car.  The 2013 Accord is the top pick among mid-size sedans
reviewed by Consumer Reports, followed by Hyundai’s Sonata GLS
and Camry, all with 4-cylinder engines, the magazine said Feb.
26. The Camry XLE V6 was the highest-rated family car with the
larger engine.  Fleet Reduction  Fay said yesterday on a conference call that Toyota’s April
fleet sales dropped by 8,500 vehicles from a year earlier. He
said last week that such sales would fall by as many as 9,000 in
the month, reducing total volume, as the company shifted its
focus to more profitable retail customers.  Toyota’s decline in deliveries to 176,160 cars and trucks
last month missed the average estimate of a 3.1 percent increase
from eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Along with the Camry decline, the Toyota City, Japan-based
company was hurt by a 21 percent drop in Prius hybrid sales. Jim Lentz, Toyota’s North American chief executive officer, said
last month that falling U.S.  gasoline prices  had curbed Prius
demand.  Honda, Nissan  Honda reported that total April sales rose to 130,999 cars
and light trucks, beating the 7.3 percent average of eight
estimates.  Along with Accord, which last led U.S. annual car sales in
2001, Honda’s sales were buoyed by an 8.3 percent rise to 26,453
for its refreshed Civic compact car. The Civic ranked fourth
among cars for the month.  Nissan’s sales grew 23 percent, aided by the Altima, while
falling short of the 26 percent average of estimates. Deliveries
of the Yokohama, Japan-based company’s all-electric Leaf
hatchback increased from a year earlier for a second consecutive
month, climbing more than fivefold to 1,937.  Separately, Nissan said yesterday that it’s cutting prices
on seven of its top-selling U.S. models, including the Altima
and Maxima sedans, Sentra small car, and Juke, Rogue, Murano and
Armada light trucks. The reductions range from $580 on the 2013
Altima to as much as $4,400 on the Armada, Nissan said.  The change is intended to better match the manufacturer’s
suggested retail price with actual transaction prices customers
pay after incentives, said  Brian Brockman , a Nissan spokesman.
Models bearing the new prices begin arriving at U.S. dealerships
this month, he said.  Korean Share  Hyundai Motor Co. and Kia Motors Corp. are losing some of
the gains they made in the U.S. during the past two decades. The
two Seoul-based affiliates, which report sales separately, lost
0.3 percentage points and 0.5 percentage points of market share
respectively this year through April, according to Autodata.  Combined sales for the two companies rose about 1 percent
in April, beating seven analysts’ average estimate of a 2.4
percent decline. Deliveries surged 45 percent for the Hyundai
Elantra and 33 percent for the Kia Optima.  Honda’s  American depositary receipts  declined 2 percent to
$39.19 yesterday in New York. Toyota ADRs fell 2.2 percent to
$113.72, and Nissan’s dropped 1.6 percent to $20.51.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  