-- Hong Kong Labor Day Protesters Back Dockers’ Struggle Against Li
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 2013-05-01T06:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/hong-kong-labor-day-protesters-back-dockers-struggle-against-li.html
Thousands of  Hong Kong  residents took
to the streets today for Labor Day marches to petition for
better labor conditions and in support of  strike action  by
workers at docks operated by billionaire  Li Ka-shing .  An estimated 2,600 people joined in a protest this morning
organized by the  Hong Kong Federation of Trade Unions  for
workers’ rights, said Kimmy Man, a spokeswoman for the Hong Kong
Police Force, in a telephone interview.  Protesters carried a caricature mule and waved placards
calling for standardized working hours, fully paid maternity
leave, better retirement benefits and against the use of
imported labor. The procession marched from Southorn Playground
in Wan Chai to the government offices in Central.  The protests underscore rising public discontent at the
growing gap between rich and poor in the former British colony.
A 7.1 percent increase in the city’s minimum wage to HK$30
($3.9) an hour took effect today, as the government attempts to
narrow inequality that is at its worst level since records began
in 1971.  Separate demonstrations were scheduled by the League of
 Social Democrats  for the rights of local migrant workers, the
Hong Kong Federation of Trade Unions, and the Union of Hong Kong
Dockers, which is demanding pay rises and improvement of labor
policies for dock workers.  Protesters rallied behind the biggest labor revolt against
Li,  Asia ’s richest man. About 450 dock workers, crane operators
and stevedores have been on strike since March 28 demanding
higher wages and better working conditions at the world’s third-
busiest container port.  Against Tycoons  Mass and social media have helped turn the strike by
dockers into a social movement, said  Randy Chiu , a professor at
Hong Kong Baptist University.  The public “view that probably the same thing will happen
to them if they don’t act together,” said Chiu. “People are
really against tycoons and property developers who also control
other businesses.”  The industrial action at  Hongkong International Terminals
Ltd.  has led at least 100 ships to skip Hong Kong in favor of
nearby ports, damaging the city’s role as a trade hub for  China .  Talks organized by the labor department between the Union
of Hong Kong Dockers and contractors of Li’s terminal have yet
to reach any agreement. Workers rejected an earlier offer of a 7
percent pay increase, while scaling back demands for a 23
percent rise to a “double-digit” increase.  The terminals are operating at 90 percent of capacity and
the delays faced by ships for berthing have been cut after the
hiring of temporary workers, according to the port operator.  Job Losses  Some workers were told they will lose their jobs on April
19 as Global Stevedoring Service Co., one of the contractors
which employs them, decided to wind up operations because it
wasn’t able to meet the salary demands.  Hongkong International Terminals is operated by  Hutchison
Port Holdings Trust (HPHT) , whose largest shareholder is Li’s  Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. (13)  Hutchison Port, along with partner Cosco Pacific
Ltd., dominates half of the capacity at Hong Kong’s port.
Hutchison Whampoa has interests in 52 ports globally from  Panama 
to the Netherlands.  Terminals controlled by Hutchison Port also have a 46
percent market share in Shenzhen, where shipping lines including
 Evergreen Marine Corp Taiwan Ltd. (2603)  diverted vessels because of
the strike in Hong Kong.  The demonstration, which first took place outside the port,
moved to Li’s Cheung Kong Center building in the city’s Central
district as workers tried to escalate their protest. The move
spurred a court battle with Li over their right to demonstrate.  Pay Cut  The port workers earn HK$55 ($6) an hour, less than the
HK$60.70 they were paid in 1995, according to the Union of Hong
Kong Dockers. They took a pay cut in 2003 during the outbreak of
severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, which hurt Hong
Kong’s economy.  Li is boosting his dominance at the Hong Kong port as
Hutchison Port in March bought a box terminal from DP World Ltd.
and a partner. Li’s companies run businesses including retail,
telecommunications, property development, electricity and port
operations. He has a total wealth of $27.7 billion, according to
the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  Other protesters took to the streets to demand  standard
working hours  working hours. The Hong Kong government last month
set up a committee to study the issue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  