-- Morales Expels USAID from Bolivia on Conspiracy Charges
-- B y   A n n a   E d g e r t o n
-- 2013-05-01T17:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/morales-expels-usaid-from-bolivia-on-conspiracy-charges.html
Bolivian President  Evo Morales , who
traditionally uses May 1 speeches to announce company takeovers,
said he’s expelling the U.S. Agency for International
Development for conspiring against his government.  “They will surely think that they can still politically
and economically manipulate us here in Bolivia, but these times
are over,” Morales, 53, said, according to  state news agency 
ABI. The U.S. “conspired” against his government and
interfered with labor and social groups, he said, without
providing details. Comments by U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  describing  Latin America  as the “backyard” of the U.S.
were also a reason for the expulsion, Morales said.  Since winning the presidency in 2005, the 53-year-old
Morales has used his May 1 Workers Day speech to announce the
nationalization of the  energy industry  in 2006 and the main
telecommunications company in 2008. A leader of the country’s
coca growers union, Morales expelled the U.S. Drug Enforcement
Agency and U.S. Ambassador Phillip Goldberg in 2008. Goldberg
hasn’t been replaced.  Land-locked Bolivia is the world’s third-biggest producer
of the coca plant, according to the  United Nations . The bush’s
leaves, which are traditionally chewed in the Andean region to
ward off hunger and the effects of altitude, contain the base
ingredient for cocaine.  USAID Operations  USAID, which has been active in Bolivia since 1964, has
supported maternal-health programs, rural farming programs and
small and medium-sized companies. U.S. assistance to Bolivia,
which includes USAID funding, totaled $28 million in 2012, down
from about $100 million in in 2008, according to
 ForeignAssistance.gov , a website operated by USAID and the State
Department.  Morales said his government would cover all programs
financed by USAID, La Paz-based newspaper  La Razon  reported.  Press officials at USAID in Washington didn’t immediately
respond to messages left by  Bloomberg News .  A Bolivian court last week said Morales could seek re-
election a third time as president in 2014 after introducing a
new constitution in 2009, the newspaper La Razon reported this
week.  Under Morales, Bolivia sold bonds abroad last year for the
first time since at least the 1920s. Central bank  reserves 
climbed to about $14.2 billion in March from $12 billion in
December 2011 and the  trade surplus  in February soared 186
percent to $546 million from a year earlier. Morales said today
he’ll raise public-sector wages for the first time in 11 years
by an average 8 percent.  The yield on the country’s dollar bonds maturing in 2022
was unchanged at 4.66 percent at 12:15 p.m.  New York  time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edgerton in Miami at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  