-- Orb Made Kentucky Derby Favorite Ahead of Verrazano, Goldencents
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-05-02T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/orb-made-kentucky-derby-favorite-followed-by-unbeaten-verrazano.html
Orb was made the 7-2 morning-line
favorite, followed by Verrazano and Goldencents, as the horses
prepare for the 139th  Kentucky Derby , the first leg of
thoroughbred racing’s Triple Crown.  Orb, ridden by Joel Rosario and trained by Claude “Shug”
McGaughey III, will leave the gate from the 16th post position
in two days at  Churchill Downs (CHDN)  in Louisville,  Kentucky .  “The horse decided for us,” McGaughey said of the
decision to enter Orb. “He had a marvelous winter.”  Verrazano, one of five entries trained by  Todd Pletcher , is
4-1 from the 14th post position, and Goldencents, part-owned by
University of Louisville basketball coach  Rick Pitino , will
leave from the eighth gate at 5-1, according to Churchill Downs
handicapper Mike Battaglia.  “That was a great post position,” Pletcher said of
Verrazano. “We’re outside Falling Sky and Goldencents. Terrific
draw for us.”  Trainer Doug O’Neill, who won last year’s Derby with I’ll
Have Another, said he was satisfied with Goldencents’ post draw.  “He has such good natural speed from the gate, post was
not as crucial,” O’Neill said.  Kevin Krigger, who is trying to become the first black
jockey to win the Derby since 1902, said he wasn’t concerned
about Goldencents’ post draw.  “No matter where he breaks from, he’s going to break and
get us into the race,” said Krigger, who has in his locker a
picture of jockey Jimmy Winkfield, winner of the race 111 years
ago.  Borel’s Horse  Revolutionary, trained by Pletcher and ridden by  Calvin Borel , is the fourth choice at 10-1 and Normandy Invasion,
trained by Chad Brown, is 12-1.  Mike Smith , who is riding Pletcher’s horse Palace Malice at
20-1 odds, is back in the 10th post position. In 19 Derby rides,
he has won the race once -- in 2005 atop Giacomo, who left from
the 10th gate.  Vyjack, leaving from the outside at 15-1, shouldn’t have
any problem moving into the pack, said jockey  Garrett Gomez .  “The pressure will be coming from the outside,” he said.
“I can follow somebody over. I’ll just try to feather our way
over. From the time we leave the gate, we’re coming.”  Five of the 20 horses in the field were given 15-1 odds,
three are 20-1, two are 30-1 and five are 50-1, including
Falling Sky, whose part-owner is Goldman Sachs Inc. analyst
James Covello. Falling Sky will start from the 13th position.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  