-- Mortgage Bankers CEO Stevens Says New Rules Will Tighten Credit
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-05-01T16:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/mortgage-bankers-ceo-stevens-says-new-rules-will-tighten-credit.html
U.S. mortgage credit probably will get
tighter as federal regulators continue working on new rules to
govern housing finance, Mortgage Bankers Association President
and Chief Executive Officer  David Stevens  said today.  Rules created by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, including
measures to prevent mortgage abuses, are just starting to take
effect and lenders are awaiting still more before the end of the
year, Stevens said in an interview at a Bloomberg Government
breakfast in  Washington .  “I actually think credit is going to get tighter before it
gets easier,” said Stevens, 56.  The comments by Stevens, who was Federal Housing
Administration commissioner before joining the industry group in
2011, come after President  Barack Obama  and Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  expressed concern that credit is being
denied to qualified borrowers, hampering the economic recovery.  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau issued a
regulation in January defining abusive mortgages and requiring
banks to determine borrowers’ ability to repay their loans.
Still to come is a rule mandating that banks must keep a stake
in any mortgages defined as risky.  The  Mortgage Bankers Association  and other housing industry
groups have been pushing for regulators to align the rules so
lenders don’t face overlapping requirements.  “It’s just literally hitting the entire marketplace now,”
Stevens said. “The cumulative impact of correcting against an
era of really bad mistakes that were made in the marketplace is
being felt by the entire housing-finance-related infrastructure
right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  