-- Osborne Should Boost Spending to Boost Weak Recovery, Niesr Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-05-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/osborne-should-boost-spending-to-boost-weak-recovery-niesr-says.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  should borrow more for spending on capital
projects to boost a “weak” economic recovery, according to the
National Institute of Economic and Social Research.  While the institute raised its 2013 economic forecast after
better-than-expected first-quarter data, it said gross domestic
product won’t recover its peak before the financial crisis until
2015. It would be “sensible” for the government to aim for a
package of extra investment totaling about 2 percent of GDP,
Niesr director Jonathan Portes said.  Osborne has drawn criticism from both the opposition  Labour
Party  and the  International Monetary Fund  for refusing to ease
his deficit-cutting program. While the economy grew 0.3 percent
in the three months through March, Niesr economist  Simon Kirby 
said “the growth rates we’re talking about are nowhere near
what you’d describe as recovery.”  The institute sees the economy expanding 0.9 percent this
year instead of the 0.7 percent forecast in February, it said in
a report published in  London  today. Its 2014 and 2015
projections for 1.5 percent and 2.1 percent are unchanged.  “We don’t expect the U.K. to dip into a triple recession
over the course of the next couple of years, but we do expect
the economy to remain relatively weak,” Kirby said. “There are
still significant risks out there.”  He said that with the yield on U.K. 10-year government
bonds below 2 percent, Osborne should borrow more to increase
spending in the near term and use a review of spending scheduled
for June to re-evaluate longer-term investment.  Investment Impact  “Investment in infrastructure and housing will have a
significant impact on the U.K. economy, boosting demand,” Kirby
said. “The government can finance additional investment in
much-needed infrastructure at little cost. With an economy in
such a depressed state, the fiscal multipliers are likely to be
far higher than in normal times.”  Osborne is pursuing an austerity program that is set to
continue until 2018 as he tries to narrow a deficit that totaled
7.8 percent of GDP in the last fiscal year.  Niesr raised its 2013 inflation forecast to 2.9 percent
from 2.4 percent, citing the pound’s weakness and an increase in
university fees. While that’s above the  Bank of England ’s 2
percent target and will curb consumer-spending growth this year,
Kirby said the central bank is right to look through it.  Niesr also pushed back its projection of when policy makers
will first raise interest rates to the second quarter of 2015
from the first quarter.  The BOE’s Monetary Policy Committee left its target for
 quantitative easing  and its key  interest rate  unchanged last
month. The MPC will have new forecasts for economic growth and
inflation at its next meeting on May 8-9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  