-- Mourinho Says Real Prospered by Missing Champions League Final
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-05-01T00:16:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/mourinho-says-real-prospered-by-missing-champions-league-final.html
Jose Mourinho said Real Madrid has
prospered financially by exiting European soccer’s Champions
League at the semifinal stage for three straight years.  Madrid again missed out on the final after a 2-0 home win
last night, which wasn’t enough to overcome a 4-1 loss to
 Borussia Dortmund (BVB)  in the opener of the two-game series.  Real, the world’s biggest soccer club by sales, received
77.7 million euros ($102.3 million) in prize money by reaching
the round of four in 2011 and 2012, according to  data released
by tournament organizer UEFA .  “Financially, it has been fantastic: we got prize money
without having to pay bonuses” to players, Mourinho told a news
conference. “But Real Madrid’s nature isn’t to be happy with
almost” winning.  Real lost to Bayern Munich at the same stage last season
and was beaten by Barcelona a year earlier. Barcelona paid out
about 20 million euros in bonuses to players when it won the
2011 Champions League, erasing much of the income it generated
from the tournament, according to Vice-President Javier Faus.  Real, which won the last of its record nine European titles
in 2002, hadn’t reached the quarterfinals of the continent’s
elite club competition for seven straight years before Mourinho
arrived. The Portuguese coach won the Champions League with
Porto in 2004 and with Inter Milan in 2010.  English Return?  The 50-year-old Mourinho declined to say whether he will
stay at Real after the end of the season.  Mourinho spent three years through September 2007 at
Chelsea, leading the club to two Premier League titles, and said
he feels more appreciated in  England  than in Spain.  “In England I am loved by some clubs, especially one,” he
said. “In Spain, the situation is different because some people
hate me. Many of you are in this room.”  Dortmund is in the final for the first time since it beat
Juventus 3-1 in the 1997 championship match. It will play the
winner of today’s semifinal between Barcelona and Bayern Munich,
which has a 4-0 lead over the Spanish team from the first game.  Dortmund coach Juergen Klopp said it was “one of the
greatest moments” of his life to reach the May 25 final at
 London ’s Wembley Stadium, an arena that he said he’s never
visited.  “We don’t want to be tourists,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  