-- Phillips 66 Quarter Profit Doubles on Refining, Chemicals
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2013-05-01T12:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/phillips-66-quarter-profit-doubles-on-refining-chemicals.html
Phillips 66 (PSX) , the largest U.S.
independent refiner by sales, said first-quarter profit more
than doubled as the margin between oil costs and fuel prices
widened and its chemical business improved.  Net income rose to $1.41 billion, or $2.23 a share, from
$636 million, or $1, a year earlier, the Houston-based company
said in a statement on  Business Wire  today. Excluding one-time
costs, per-share profit exceeded the $1.89 average of 16
 analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Phillips 66, which has the capacity to refine 2.2 million
barrels of oil a day, was spun off from ConocoPhillips last year
as that company sought to become a pure exploration and
production business. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Greg Garland has said he’s focused on chemicals, pipelines and
natural gas processing to reduce the volatility that comes with
refining earnings.  “This company is a different animal because the growth
opportunities are not on the refining side of the business,”
 Fadel Gheit , an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York who
rates Phillips 66 the equivalent of a buy and doesn’t own the
shares, said in a phone interview before earnings were
announced.  The  margin  between the cost of West Texas Intermediate oil
and the price at which refiners sell fuel rose 20 percent to an
average of $32.689 a barrel in the January-to-March period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Joint Ventures  Phillips 66 has stakes in 15 operating refineries as well
as a chemical joint venture with  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and a pipeline
unit with  Spectra Energy Corp. (SE)   The company, whose third-largest shareholder is  Warren
Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., plans to raise as much as
$300 million in an initial public offering this year for a
minority interest in some of its pipeline and logistics assets,
according to a filing last month.  Phillips 66 dropped 1.4 percent to $60.95 yesterday in  New
York . The shares, which have 13 buy and eight hold ratings from
analysts, have risen 15 percent this year.  Independent refiners don’t own exploration or production
assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  