-- Pilgrim Funds Give Indonesia Banks Booster Shot: Islamic Finance
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-05-01T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/pilgrim-funds-give-indonesia-banks-booster-shot-islamic-finance.html
Indonesia ’s plan to shift 11 trillion
rupiah ($1.1 billion) of pilgrim’s savings into Shariah-
compliant lenders is a booster-shot that will help narrow the
gap with neighboring  Malaysia .  Deposits set aside by those planning a Hajj visit to Mecca
in Saudi Arabia will be shifted by the  Ministry of Religious
Affairs  from non-Islamic banks within a year of announcing the
policy, Anggito Abimanyu, director-general of Hajj and Umrah at
the ministry, said in an interview yesterday. The funds are
equivalent to 7.3 percent of the 150.8 trillion rupiah in
 savings at Islamic lenders , less than a sixth of Malaysia’s 310
billion ringgit ($102 billion), central bank data show.  Shariah banking assets in Indonesia jumped 35 percent in
the year through February and the government wants to lift its
market share from 4.6 percent to 10 percent by 2015. Authorities
in Kuala Lumpur have relaxed foreign-ownership rules and used
tax breaks to help the industry grow to a point where it
accounts for 20 percent of the nation’s financial assets. Of the
211,000 Indonesians that went on last year’s Hajj, 92 percent
did so on a state-organized tour.  “We are glad for this move as it shows the government’s
commitment in supporting the industry’s growth,” Lukita Tri
Prakasa, corporate secretary at  PT Bank BRI Syariah  in Jakarta,
which has created a team to manage the incoming money, said in
an April 30 interview. “This is very good for us as it will
increase our third-party funds and boost our expansion.”  Trading Volumes  The entire Hajj fund totaled 55 trillion rupiah in March,
with about 35 trillion rupiah invested in non-tradable sovereign
sukuk and 9 trillion rupiah already placed at Islamic lenders,
official data show. The government wants to increase trading
volumes by selling less bonds to the fund,  Dahlan Siamat ,
director of Islamic financing at the debt management office,
said in November, potentially giving Shariah banks another boost.  Bank Indonesia is in talks with the religious affairs
ministry on how the funds will be divided up between the banks
Edy Setiadi, executive director for Islamic banking at the
monetary authority, said in an April 29 e-mailed response to
questions. Indonesia has 11 fully fledged Islamic lenders and 24
so-called Shariah-compliant window operations at non-Islamic
banks. The central bank is also seeking to spur industry growth
by requiring the windows to become standalone units by 2015.  Since the incoming Hajj money will be recorded as a
liability, BRI Syariah plans to ask for additional capital from
its parent, PT Bank Rakyat Indonesia, the nation’s second-
largest by assets, to maintain a healthy balance sheet, Prakasa
said. Bank Indonesia requires that lenders hold reserves of at
least 8 percent of their loans and deposits.  ‘Nice Bonus’  PT Bank Muamalat Indonesia, the nation’s second-largest
Shariah lender, has actually been reducing the amount of Hajj
money it manages to focus more on its core business of retail
banking, Finance Director Hendiarto Yogiono said. It cut the
funds by 36 percent to 1.25 trillion rupiah in 2012, as its
assets increased 38 percent to 44.9 trillion rupiah.  “Islamic banks have grown rapidly, so the government sees
that they can handle a bigger responsibility now,” Yogiono said
in an April 30 interview from Jakarta. “It’s a nice bonus, but
we don’t expect the decision to cause a dramatic change as the
sum isn’t so big.”  Growth in the Shariah-compliant banking industry may spur
demand for Islamic bonds as lenders seek to invest their funds.
Global sales of sukuk, which pay returns on assets to comply
with the religion’s ban on interest, increased 3.8 percent to
$14.8 billion in 2013 from the same period last year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Issuance totaled a record $46.5
billion in 2012.  Fund’s Mandate  The average yield on Shariah-compliant bonds sold
internationally rose 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point,
last month to 3.05 percent, the HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai US Dollar
Sukuk Index shows. The premium investors demand to hold the
notes over the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, widened
seven basis points to 184.  Islamic bonds returned 1.4 percent this year, according to
the HSBC/Nasdaq index, while debt from  emerging markets  gained
0.5 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index shows.  The Hajj is one of the five pillars of Islam and every
able-bodied Muslim is obliged to make the journey at least once
in their lives, performing rituals like circling the cube-shaped
Kaaba, one of the religion’s most sacred sites. A record 3.16
million pilgrims traveled to Mecca to do the Hajj in 2012, a
Saudi Arabian government  statement  shows. This year’s event will
take place in October.  “It was always part of the mandate that funds used for the
pilgrimage should be managed in a Shariah-compliant way,” BRI
Syariah’s Prakasa said. “We are studying options and making
sure we will be ready to put the funds to work so it doesn’t
become an operational cost burden for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  