-- Porter Weighs Debt Backed by Jets to Finance CSeries Plan
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-05-01T11:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/porter-weighs-debt-backed-by-jets-to-finance-cseries-plan.html
Porter Airlines Inc. will consider
selling aircraft-backed debt to pay for CSeries planes from
 Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) , a purchase that marks the carrier’s first foray
into jet travel, said Chief Executive Officer Robert Deluce.  The conditional deal to buy at least 12 Bombardier CS100
planes signals a break with Porter’s strategy of short-haul
turboprop flights from Toronto’s Billy Bishop airport, on an
island in  Lake Ontario . The CSeries deal, with a catalog value
of about $870 million, would let Porter start long-haul service
to cities such as  Los Angeles  and Nassau, Bahamas.  Issuing debt secured by the new planes “is one of the
options for sure,” the 63-year-old Deluce said yesterday in an
interview at Porter headquarters in Toronto. “Our finance guys
are pretty sophisticated, and they will look at any and all
means of financing the aircraft at the point in time where we’re
faced with that.”  Those sales are common outside  Canada , with carriers
issuing at least $77 billion in the U.S. for jet purchases since
1987, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co.  report  in April.  Air
Canada (AC/A)  became the country’s first carrier to sell enhanced
equipment trust certificates when it issued $714.5 million to
pay for five Boeing 777-300ER aircraft last week.  Compounding the novelty is the fact that the CSeries jets
haven’t even flown yet. Bombardier plans to conduct the plane’s
first flight next month, a deadline it postponed by six months
in November.  Geared Turbofan  Additional financing options for the CSeries jets include
loans from  Export Development Canada , the country’s export-
financing arm, Deluce said.  The CSeries will be Bombardier’s biggest-ever aircraft and
cost about $3.4 billion to develop. The planemaker said the
CSeries, which will feature the new geared turbofan engine from
United Technologies Corp.’s Pratt & Whitney, will be about four
times quieter than existing jets.  Porter, which is closely held, doesn’t disclose financial
results, and Deluce would say only that the company is
profitable. Porter has no immediate plans to revive an initial
public offering that it scrapped in 2009, the CEO said.  Porter’s order with Bombardier also includes options for
another 18 CS100s, as well as purchase rights on six Q400s.
Should all purchase rights and options be exercised, the value
of the deal would increase to about $2.3 billion at list prices,
Bombardier said.  Runway Expansion  For the deal to proceed, Deluce must persuade officials to
end a ban on jets at Billy Bishop airport and stretch the runway
by about 28 percent. Deluce said yesterday he’s still confident
of winning approval from the City of Toronto and two other
parties to the agreement governing the airport -- the federal
government and the Toronto Port Authority -- this year.  “Things are progressing, maybe even a little quicker than
we had originally been anticipating,” Deluce said. “We always
knew there would be a full conversation around the merits of
Porter’s plans. We remain optimistic.”  Studies on how much the proposed extension would cost are
under way and will be completed “in the not too distant
future,” Deluce said without being more specific. Until they’re
finished, it’s premature to speculate how large an investment
would be required, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  