-- Public Service May Expand LIPA Role After Sandy Failures
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-05-01T19:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/public-service-may-expand-lipa-role-after-sandy-failures.html
Public Service Enterprise Group Inc. (PEG) 
may take over operations of the Long Island Power Authority,
leaving the state-owned utility a holding company with no day-
to-day responsibilities after thousands of its customers were
left in the dark for weeks by  Hurricane Sandy .  The expanded role for the owner of New Jersey’s largest
utility was discussed at a cabinet meeting with New York
Governor Andrew Cuomo in Albany today. No final decision was
made. Public Service, based in  Newark , New Jersey, was awarded a
10-year contract in 2011 to manage the authority’s power lines
and distribution systems starting next year.  Under the proposal, Public Service would control capital
and operating budgets, storm preparedness and response, call
centers, computer systems and customer service, Richard L. Kauffman, a Cuomo adviser on energy issues, said at the meeting.
The move is meant to improve customer service and response to
storms, he said.  Cuomo, a Democrat, has criticized the authority’s response
to Sandy, saying in November that its management failed. Chief
Operating Officer Michael Hervey resigned from the authority two
weeks after the storm, which caused the largest power
restoration effort in Long Island’s history. The governor formed
a commission to investigate utility actions before and after the
storm.  Proposed Solution  The authority, which has about $7 billion in debt, would
maintain its tax-exempt status under the proposal. Public
Service takes over operations at LIPA from  National Grid Plc (NG/) ,
based in  London .  Public Service Chief Executive Officer and Chairman Ralph Izzo said yesterday the utility was in talks with New York to
take on an expanded role at LIPA. New York officials approached
Public Service about taking over more management functions, Izzo
said during a conference call with analysts.  “There is a proposed solution that we are all working
towards,” Karen Johnson, a spokeswoman for Public Service, said
in an e-mail today. “It’s still a work in progress and under
discussion.”  LIPA didn’t immediately respond to e-mails and telephone
calls seeking comment.  The proposed plan would put LIPA and PSEG under the
oversight of the New York State Department of Public Service.
LIPA currently operates outside of that oversight. It would also
create a structure, still to be determined, that would
securitize LIPA’s debt in an effort to lower its borrowing
costs.  “We think that this plan, if we’re able to complete it,
will privatize operations while getting meaningful operations
synergies,” Kauffman said.  The state still needs to reach an agreement with Public
Service and may also need legislation to enact some of the
changes at LIPA, Kauffman said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in  Albany   at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  