-- Puerto Rico Worst-to-First Returns Turning on April: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-05-01T00:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/puerto-rico-worst-to-first-returns-turning-on-april-muni-credit.html
Puerto Rico debt has soared from worst
to first in the $3.7 trillion municipal market as Governor
Alejandro Garcia Padilla proposes steps to raise revenue after
seven years of budget deficits.  Amid the best month for U.S. local debt since November,
obligations of commonwealth issuers earned 2.4 percent in April,
beating all 26 states tracked by Standard & Poor’s. The
performance by the securities, which are tax-exempt nationwide,
follows March’s last-place finish. Garcia Padilla, 41, who took
office in January, last week recommended broadening the sales-
tax base and increasing levies on top earners.  Puerto Rico bond prices have fluctuated since December as
the three major credit-rating companies cut the island’s
general-obligation grade to one step above junk, citing pension
and budget gaps. Still, investors who stay the course stand to
gain, said Scott Cottier, who helps manage $38 billion of munis
at OppenheimerFunds Inc. in Rochester, New York.  “If an investor can withstand the potential volatility as
a result of changes in ratings and changes in market sentiment,
they’ll be very happy with the extra yield that they’re earning
on Puerto Rico bonds,” said Cottier, whose holdings include $6
billion of debt from the self-governing commonwealth.  Yield Reach  Buyers are hunting for additional yield as the Federal
Reserve keeps its benchmark overnight interest rate near zero to
bolster the economy. Interest rates on 20-year general-
obligations are about  3.9 percent , below the 52-year average of
5.88 percent, according to a Bond Buyer index.  In a sign of demand for lower-rated debt, Iowa Finance
Authority sold $1.2 billion of debt yesterday to build a
fertilizer plant, the biggest muni junk deal ever.  Investors demand about 2.5 percentage points of extra yield
to own Puerto Rico obligations due in July 2041 instead of top-
rated bonds, Bloomberg Valuation analysis shows. That spread,
while little changed from early December, reached as wide as
2.85 percentage points in January, after Moody’s Investors
Service lowered the credit Dec. 13 to Baa3. That’s the lowest
investment grade. S&P and Fitch followed in March.  “They’ve certainly stabilized and the selling pressure
seems to have abated,” said Tom Spalding, who helps manage $10
billion of munis, including Puerto Rico debt, at Nuveen
Investments Inc. in  Chicago .  April Gain  The broader muni market earned about 1 percent in April,
keeping pace with a rally in Treasuries, which returned about
1.1 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  Benchmark 10-year munis yield 1.75 percent, compared with
1.67 percent on similar-maturity Treasuries. Local yields have
been above their federal counterparts since April 11.  Garcia Padilla, of the Popular Democratic Party, released a
$9.8 billion budget for the fiscal year beginning July 1, about
8 percent larger than the current spending plan, according to
Robert Donahue, a managing director at Concord Massachusetts-
based Municipal Market Advisors.  Assuming the governor’s plan is enacted, the administration
projects total sales-tax revenue will grow to $2.2 billion for
the coming fiscal year, from $1.2 billion this period, Javier Ferrer, president of the Government Development Bank for Puerto
Rico, said in an interview from San Juan.  ‘Paying Down’  The governor also plans to reduce reliance on deficit
financing, in which it pushes debt payments to future years, by
$200 million for fiscal 2014, said Ferrer. The bank is the
commonwealth’s fiscal agent.  “We are reducing to $575 million the restructuring of the
debt and we are paying down more debt,” Ferrer said.  Donahue questions the governor’s sales-tax revenue
estimates because the program doesn’t capture all receipts. The
sales-tax system has a historical collection rate of about 60
percent, according to Moody’s.  While the $16 billion of debt repaid with Puerto Rico’s
sales-tax revenue should maintain adequate coverage, Garcia
Padilla’s plan to increase spending by taxing higher earners is
“a little bit of a setback,” Spalding said.  The budget is “going in the wrong direction,” he said.  Top Earners  Garcia Padilla also wants to raise collections through a
tax surcharge of 2 percent on self-employed residents who earn
$200,000 or more and limiting some mortgage-interest deductions,
according to Donahue.  The governor wants to add private jobs as the
commonwealth’s unemployment rate in March was 14.2 percent,
higher than in any U.S. state. While Puerto Rico’s economy grew
in fiscal 2012 for the first time since 2006, officials project
that it will contract this year and then grow by 0.2 percent in
the period beginning July 1, according to the Puerto Rico
Planning Board.  Puerto Rico must repay its general-obligation bonds before
directing revenue to other programs and bills, a benefit for
investors, said Oppenheimer’s Cottier. When yield spreads on
Puerto Rico debt widen, those are buying opportunities, he said.  “The bondholders are No. 1 in line,” Cottier said.
“Puerto Rico at these cheapened levels are really a great
value.”  In the next two weeks, muni investors get to bid on $3
billion of revenue debt from Grand Parkway Transportation Corp.
to finance a toll-road in the Houston area. The offer leads
 $11.5 billion  of scheduled municipal issuance in the next 30
days, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s higher than the
five-year average of $10.3 billion.  Even with the sales wave, munis may be poised for a better
performance in May than in June, UBS AG research shows.  Local debt has earned more in May than the following month
in nine of the past 10 years, Bank of America data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  