-- Railroads Gain on Coal Shipping Rebound From Record Low: Freight
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-05-01T04:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/railroads-gain-on-coal-shipping-rebound-from-record-low-freight.html
Railroads in the U.S. such as  Union
Pacific Corp. (UNP)  and Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  may be rolling
past the record slump in coal volume as costlier natural gas and
summer weather rekindle demand from the nation’s power plants.  The seven largest railroads hauled  106,728 carloads  of coal
in the week ended April 20, up 22 percent from a record low at
the end of 2012, Association of American Railroads data show.
With coal accounting for 21 percent of all carloads, the gain
helps mend a weak patch for an industry challenged by a decline
in coal volumes that began in 2008.  Shipments of coal, the largest source of energy for
electrical power generation around the world, slumped at all
three of the biggest U.S. railroads last year as utilities began
switching to  natural gas . Rising natural gas costs, combined
with a pickup in the economy and forecasts for a warmer summer,
indicate the hit to rail revenue from coal is dissipating.  “The worst has passed,” said Nathaniel Gabriel, an
industrials analyst at Argus Research Co. in New York, who has a
buy rating on Union Pacific. “I see Union Pacific as top of the
pack in terms of leveraging higher coal volumes into earnings
growth as we pull out of this rut.”  Investors have been rewarded. Shares of Union Pacific last
week climbed to a  record . The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Railroads Index, which also includes  CSX Corp. (CSX) ,  Norfolk Southern
Corp. (NSC) ,  Genesee & Wyoming Inc. (GWR) , and  Kansas City Southern (KSU) , has
advanced about 21 percent this year. The broader  S&P 500 Index 
is up 12 percent.  ‘Lightening Up’  The headwinds are “lightening up pretty considerably” for
Omaha, Nebraska-based Union Pacific, the largest U.S. railroad
by sales, and  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s Burlington Northern,
because they predominantly haul coal from the Powder River Basin
of Wyoming and Montana, said David Vernon, a Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. analyst in New York.  Central Appalachian coal is among the most expensive to
produce and requires higher natural gas prices to be
competitive, according to Vernon.  At the same time, railroads will keep building up their
ship and road connections, as well as freight businesses, as
utilities rely less on coal amid tightening emissions
regulations, according to Anthony Hatch, an independent rail
analyst based in  New York .  “The best-case scenario is stabilization,” Hatch said.
“It’s going to be flattish and other things will grow.”  Union Pacific Chief Executive Officer Jack Koraleski said
natural gas prices above $4 per million British thermal units
may help spur more coal consumption because the fuel is cheaper
than gas for electricity production.  Natural Gas  “We have some customers that have started shifting more
towards coal and away from natural gas at those rates,”
Koraleski said in an interview. “Once we get through May and
you start to get into the summer air-conditioning season, if we
have a normal hot summer across the U.S. we will see an increase
in our coal volumes.”  Fort Worth , Texas-based BNSF handled 33 percent of the coal
hauled in the U.S. and  Canada  last year, the biggest share among
the seven largest railroads, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Union Pacific was second with 26 percent, followed by
Norfolk Southern at 17 percent and CSX at 16 percent.  In addition to higher natural gas prices, cooler spring
weather helped brighten the prospects for coal, according to
 Arch Coal Inc. (ACI) , the fourth-largest U.S. producer of the fuel.  Chief Executive Officer John Eaves said on an April 23
conference call with analysts that coal stockpiles will end the
year at near the lowest level since December 2007 amid rising
consumption and falling production.  Summer Forecast  “We’re already seeing evidence that stockpiles are
correcting,” Eaves said. “Our customers are no longer calling
us to defer tons as they did a year ago.”  Hotter temperatures this summer that prompt American
households to use more air conditioning will also boost demand
for coal and the railroads that ship it. AccuWeather Inc.
expects the western plains through the  Rocky Mountains  to be
above normal, possibly by 3 degrees to 4 degrees Fahrenheit,
which is “fairly significant,”  Tom Kines , a meteorologist at
AccuWeather in  State College ,  Pennsylvania , said by phone.  Coal’s prospects are improving after its share of U.S.
power generation fell last year to 34 percent, the lowest since
at least 1973, Energy Department data show. Power utilities
began shifting away from coal last year after natural gas fell
to a decade low and the Environmental Protection Agency moved to
cap coal-fired power stations’ emissions.  Last Year  Coal carloads fell to 87,371 in the last week of 2012, the
lowest in at least two decades of data compiled by the railroad
association in Washington.  More deliveries “would be pretty significant,” said
 Justin Long , an analyst at Stephens Inc. in  Little Rock ,
Arkansas. “Coal is a high-margin, good business for all the
rails and it’s a significant piece of the business that makes up
a good percentage of total revenue.”  Union Pacific is poised to benefit from demand for coal
from the Powder River Basin. The area helps make Wyoming the
largest U.S. producer of coal, exceeding the next six biggest
coal-producing states combined,  according  to the Energy
Department. Wyoming produced 39 percent of the U.S. total in the
first quarter, while No. 2 West Virginia and No. 3 Kentucky
combined accounted for 22 percent, according to Energy
Department data.  “Powder River Basin coal is here to stay,” Union Pacific
Chief Financial Officer Robert Knight said on an April 18
conference call with analysts. “Perhaps at lower levels than
what we historically experienced, but our assumption is that
it’s a normal from here on out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  