-- Reinhart-Rogoff Uproar Settles Nothing
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-05-01T22:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/reinhart-rogoff-uproar-settles-nothing.html
(Corrects book title in first paragraph.)  By now, you’re probably tired of all
the back-and-forth on Reinhart and Rogoff. That would be  Harvard
University ’s  Carmen Reinhart  and  Kenneth Rogoff , the economists
who co-authored the 2009 best-seller, “ This Time Is Different :
Eight Centuries of Financial Folly,” and who are now on the
firing line because of minor data errors in a 2010  working
paper .  That paper, “Growth in a Time of Debt,” found that high
public debt was associated with slower growth. Specifically,
when a nation’s gross public debt exceeds 90 percent of economic
output, the median growth rate falls by 1 percentage point, and
average growth drops considerably more. The U.S. crossed that
debt threshold in 2010.  Last month, three University of Massachusetts at Amherst
researchers  accused  Reinhart and Rogoff of a “series of  data
errors  and unsupportable statistical techniques.” In an  April
17 response , Reinhart and Rogoff acknowledged the spreadsheet
data error, which didn’t alter the conclusions to a significant
degree, and disputed allegations of “selective omissions” in
their work. The challenge set off a political firestorm, with
critics blaming the two for everything from creating mass
 unemployment  to maliciously influencing  Europe ’s policy debate
to producing global warming. (OK, I made up the last one.)  A few brief points before I get to my analysis.  First, Reinhart and Rogoff didn’t imply causality between
debt and growth. In fact, they claim that it goes both ways,
with slow growth leading to an increase in public debt, and high
debt in turn impairing economic expansion.  Dueling Ideas  Second, the idea that European budget policies relied on
Reinhart and Rogoff’s 2010 findings is nonsense. The 1992
Maastricht Treaty outlined four criteria for joining the
European monetary union, including specific thresholds for debt
(60 percent) and deficits (3 percent) as a share of gross
domestic product. The  International Monetary Fund  often makes
its loans conditional on achieving fiscal targets.  Third, claims that the data errors exposed a serious flaw
in the research are preposterous. The paper by UMass’s Thomas
Herndon, Michael Ash and Robert Pollin does more to  confirm
Reinhart and Rogoff’s findings  on the relationship between high
debt and slow growth than to upend it. In a subsequent  2012
paper , Reinhart and Rogoff found that the average growth rate
during sustained high-debt periods was 2.3 percent -- the UMass
study’s average was 2.2 percent -- compared with 3.5 percent
otherwise.  More than enough mathematicians, er, economists, have
weighed in on the numbers already. I’ll stick to principles.
Call it “Reinhart and Rogoff for Dummies.” Here goes:  As the Reinhart and Rogoff kerfuffle unfolded, I kept
thinking of the 2009  rap video , “Fear the Boom and the Bust,”
written and produced by economist Russ Roberts and media
executive John Papola, co-founders of  econstories.tv . Here are
the opening lyrics, sung by actors portraying  John Maynard Keynes  and  Friedrich Hayek :  “We’ve been going back and forth for a century.”  “I want to steer markets.” (Keynes)  “I want them set free.” (Hayek)  The current debate is nothing more than a revival of that
age-old argument between two schools of economic thought: one,
free market; the other, government interventionist. It won’t be
settled anytime soon.  That hasn’t prevented economist  Paul Krugman  from taking
his victory laps, claiming that  Keynesians have won  and
“austerians” -- his term for those who advocate reducing
deficits -- have lost. This is a political, not an economic,
conclusion.  Empty Calories  Forget the data for a minute. Imagine asking the average
person on the street, Is too much debt a problem? Do you think
you would get any negative responses? That’s the essence of
Reinhart and Rogoff’s research. You don’t need a doctorate in
economics to understand that you can’t spend beyond your means
forever, or that piling on debt because it’s cheap to borrow
isn’t sound policy.  As for the Keynesians being right, the $830 billion 2009
fiscal stimulus demonstrates just the opposite. One dollar in
 federal outlays  produced $1 of GDP, according to the
 Congressional Budget Office . There were no second-round effects.
The  multiplier was one .  Even the notion of  government spending  as stimulus
challenges logic. If the federal government takes a dollar from
X, via borrowing or taxes, and gives it to Y, that spending may
add to GDP in the short run, but there is no long-run effect.
Fiscal policy gets its bang from monetary policy: from the
central bank’s expansion of the  money supply . Without that, it’s
just a transfer of resources.  My analysis finds an important omission in Reinhart and
Rogoff’s work, not to mention that of their critics. Not all
debt is created equal. Some of it, to fund scientific or
technology research and development, will pay a dividend down
the road. It isn’t the same as incurring debt to subsidize a
tattoo-removal program,  Moroccan pottery classes  or Smokey-the-
Bear balloons.  One final point, and something that plagues the economic
profession in general: physics envy. It’s the desire by the
social sciences to know something with certainty in a field
where complex phenomena and human behavior often can’t be
quantified.  It’s irrelevant, to me at least, whether the exact debt-to-
GDP threshold where economic growth suffers is 90 percent, 88.3
percent or 95.5 percent. The point is, too much debt is bad.
Anyone who doubts that is welcome to test the theory.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 