-- Run Trucks on Natural Gas to Promote Independence, Pickens Says
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-05-01T21:35:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/run-trucks-on-natural-gas-to-promote-independence-pickens-says.html
U.S. energy policy makers should offer
incentives to convert trucks to run on natural gas to promote
energy independence, billionaire  T. Boone Pickens  said.  The U.S. has a larger amount of potential energy in natural
gas under its soil than Saudi Arabia’s stated oil reserves,
according to Pickens, chairman of BP Capital LLC, a Dallas-based
energy trading partnership. Gas is currently selling at about
one-fourth the cost of oil when measured by British thermal
units of energy.  “The cheapest fuel you’ve got in the United States is
natural gas,” Pickens, 84, said today at the Milken Institute
Global Conference in Beverly Hills, California. “There’s going
to be a lot of money made on the demand side.”  At $90.97 a barrel, oil costs about $15.63 per million
British thermal units compared with $4.33 for  natural gas ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pickens, whose  Clean Energy Fuels Corp. (CLNE)  has 400 natural gas
filling stations, wants the federal government to offer
incentives to convert 8 million 18-wheeler long-haul trucks to
run on natural gas, raising money for the plan by selling some
of the 700 million barrels of oil now in the U.S. strategic
petroleum reserve.  For investors looking to make money on natural gas,
Pickens’ picks are what he called “midstream operators,” such
as  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  and  Kinder Morgan Energy
Partners LP (KMP) , which provide services including pipelines and
transportation for the industry.  Pickens said it’s impractical for people, such as former
U.S. Vice President and Nobel Peace Prize laureate  Al Gore , to
oppose consumption of natural gas and other fossil fuels,
because most of that is used for transportation.  “Seventy percent of all the oil produced goes to
transportation,” Pickens said. “If you want to shut down the
world, shut down fossil fuels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  