-- SAC, Viking Questioned in Grassley’s Medicare Rate Probe
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-05-01T20:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/sac-viking-questioned-in-grassley-s-medicare-rate-probe.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP and Viking
Global Investors LP are being questioned by Senator Charles
Grassley in his review of a possible leak of a U.S. government
decision on payment reimbursements to health insurers.  Grassley, an Iowa Republican, sent letters yesterday to the
investment firms, asking about their dealings with “political
intelligence” firms that try to predict government decisions. A
Height Analytics LLC report on April 1 told clients more than 40
minutes before the official announcement that the U.S. would
reverse plans for a Medicare Advantage rate cut.  Shares of  Humana Inc. (HUM) ,  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  and other
insurers soared after the report. Trades by Andreas Halvorsen’s
Viking hedge fund company and Steven A. Cohen’s SAC “raise
questions regarding the transmission of political intelligence
from Washington, D.C. to Wall Street,” Grassley said in his
letter. He cited a Wall Street Journal report that the two firms
traded in health stocks before the Medicare decision.  A spokesman for New York-based Viking declined to comment
on Grassley’s letter. Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for
 Stamford , Connecticut-based SAC, also declined to comment.  Justin Simon, an analyst at Height Analytics in Washington,
sent a note to clients about 20 minutes before the market close
on April 1 that said “a deal has been hatched to protect
Medicare Advantage rates.” Companies including Humana and
UnitedHealth offer the plans as an alternative to the
government-run Medicare program for the elderly and disabled.  ‘Credible Sources’  Simon made his call after reviewing other reports on the
topic and talking with lobbyists working on the issue. One of
those lobbyists, former Grassley aide Mark Hayes of the firm
Greenberg Traurig LLP in  Washington , told Simon that “very
credible sources” had said the government would reduce the
payment cut, according to e-mails obtained by Bloomberg.  Humana, which gets more of its revenue from Medicare than
any other insurer, jumped about 8.6 percent after Simon’s note
was issued. Hayes’s clients included Humana, which severed its
relationship with Greenberg after Grassley began his probe.  Grassley hasn’t found that Hayes or Simon received advance
notice of the decision from government officials. Both Greenberg
and Height have said their employees did nothing wrong. Height
terminated a contract with Greenberg for Hayes to advise its
analysts on April 19, after Humana fired the firm.  Greenberg said April 22 it would no longer represent
“political intelligence” firms.  Decision Date  The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the
agency that runs Medicare, and the inspector general for the
Health and Human Services Department are also investigating
whether there was a leak of the Advantage decision. Spokesmen
for the two agencies didn’t immediately respond to e-mails today
asking about the status of their investigations.  Medicare officials decided two weeks before the official
announcement that they would change a key calculation that helps
determine Advantage rates, according to Grassley.  SAC, which oversees $15 billion in assets, reached a $602
million conditional settlement last month with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission of claims the firm and one of
its units profited from illegal tips about a drugmaker received
by former portfolio manager Mathew Martoma. That case is
unrelated to the Medicare Advantage review Grassley is
conducting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  