-- Sands China Profit Rises 63 Percent on Record Visits
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-05-02T10:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/sands-china-profit-rises-63-percent-on-record-visits.html
Sands China Ltd. (1928) , the Macau casino
operator controlled by billionaire  Sheldon Adelson , posted a 63
percent jump in first-quarter profit as it drew a record number
of visitors and pledged to increase its dividend.  Net income for the Hong Kong-listed unit of  Las Vegas Sands
Corp. (LVS)  rose to $452.9 million from $277.4 million a year earlier,
according to a statement from the parent company. Revenue
climbed 39 percent to $2.02 billion for the three months ended
in March.  Sands China and competitors including  Galaxy Entertainment
Group Ltd. (27)  are expanding in Macau, the only place in China where
casinos are legal, to take advantage of an increasing numbers of
Chinese tourists. The government today said April casino
revenues gained 13.2 percent from a year ago.  “We have every intention of increasing the recurring
dividend at both Las Vegas Sands and Sands  China  in the quarters
ahead, as our business and cash flows continue to consistently
grow,” Adelson said on an earnings conference call, according
to a transcript posted.  Sands China fell 0.98 percent to HK$40.30 in Hong Kong
trading today after earlier gaining as much as 3.4 percent.  Macau Expansion  The gains come as PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP stepped down
as auditor for Sands China and its parent. Las Vegas Sands Corp.
in March disclosed that there were “likely violations of the
books and records and internal provisions” of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act after an internal audit. It said it has
improved its practices with respect to books and records and is
cooperating with all investigations.  Las Vegas Sands, which gets about 58 percent of annual
revenue from Macau, reported a 15 percent rise in first quarter
earnings. Sands China saw a record 14 million visits to its
Cotai Strip properties, according to the  statement .  The company said in January that it has received government
approval to add 200 additional gambling tables.     Sands Cotai
Central, the operator’s latest resort which opened in April last
year, has been adding more hotel rooms.  “Sands Cotai Central continued to ramp up,” Karen Tang, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG said in a research
note today. “Sands Cotai Central’s junket business had already
surpassed that of the Venetian’s and its slot electronic table
games yield is approaching that of Venetian’s, but its mass
segment still needs improving.”  Fifth Resort  Adjusted property earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, or property Ebitda, climbed 39
percent to $626.4 million. That compares with a median estimate
of $632 million from a survey of five analysts compiled by
Bloomberg News.  Sands, which will invest $2.8 billion in the former
Portuguese colony to build its fifth resort, said in the
statement that initial construction work on The Parisian Macau
has started. The Parisian is scheduled to open in late 2015.  Sands China also plans to develop a 2 million square foot
retail mall south of Sands Cotai Central in Macau, with almost
half that space allocated to shopping and dining options.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  