-- Santos, GDF Suez May Add Investor to LNG Project in Australia
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-05-01T07:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/santos-gdf-suez-may-add-investor-to-lng-project-in-australia.html
Santos Ltd. (STO) , Australia’s third-biggest
oil producer, said its proposed Bonaparte floating liquefied
natural gas venture with  GDF Suez SA (GSZ)  off the country’s northern
coast may bring in another partner.  “There probably is room for another party,” especially as
part of talks to sign up customers, Santos Chief Executive
Officer David Knox told reporters today in Sydney. The project
would probably cost $8 billion to $10 billion, Citigroup
Inc. estimated last month.  Santos expects an  investment decision  on whether to go
ahead with Bonaparte in  about 2015, Knox said today in a speech.
GDF Suez, Europe’s biggest utility by market value, said last
September that it expected a decision at the end of 2014.  Santos and Paris-based GDF Suez are among energy companies
planning to follow  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  in developing projects
to convert gas into liquid on giant ships off Australia as costs
to build onshore plants rise.  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  said
yesterday that floating LNG technology may be the fastest way to
develop its Browse project, while Exxon Mobil Corp. last month
lodged plans for a sea-based venture off Australia.  Bonaparte LNG, which would be located offshore about 250
kilometers (155 miles) west of Darwin in Australia’s Northern
Territory, won federal government approval in October. Adelaide-
based Santos, which holds 40 percent of the venture, has said it
expects to begin output in about 2018. GDF Suez has 60 percent.  Santos is also building the Gladstone LNG project, one of
three coal-seam gas-to-LNG developments under construction on
Australia’s east coast.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG) 
are developing a rival project, while  BG Group Plc (BG/)  is operating
another. Shell and PetroChina Co. plan a fourth LNG venture in
Queensland state through their Arrow Energy Ltd. venture that
hasn’t yet been approved by the companies.  All the LNG developers in Queensland are in talks about how
to reduce costs, Knox told reporters. The proposed Arrow project
has development options, including working with Santos, he said
earlier at a Macquarie Group Ltd. conference.  “We have potential to work together on that and maybe
expand onto their site, should they wish to do so, but they do
have some choices available,” according to Knox.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  