-- SAP Loses Bid to Overturn $345 Million Patent Verdict
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-05-01T17:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/sap-loses-bid-to-overturn-345-million-patent-verdict.html
SAP Inc., (SAP)  the world’s biggest maker of
business-management software, lost a bid to overturn a $345
million jury verdict won by Versata Software Inc. over ways to
customize pricing.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
Washington did say an order limiting SAP’s sales and maintenance
of its software was too broad, and ordered the trial judge to
modify that part of the case. The  decision  was posted today on
the court’s website.  “Sufficient evidence supports the jury’s verdict of
infringement,” Chief Circuit Judge Randall Rader wrote for the
three-judge panel, rejecting SAP’s arguments that it didn’t use
the invention.  The dispute is over software that can customize pricing
based on factors such as the particular customer, product and
size of the order. Closely held Versata sold its software,
called Pricer, in the late 1990s to customers such as
International Business Machines Corp. and Motorola Inc.
Walldorf, Germany-based SAP began offering customized pricing as
part of its enterprise software in 1998, according to the
court’s opinion.  Versata “had tremendous sales success until precisely the
point in time that SAP entered the market with the patented
product,” said Michael McKool of McKool Smith, which
represented Versata. He said the company, which still sells
software, was pleased with the ruling.  Damage Calculations  Austin, Texas-based Versata sued SAP in 2007. The first
trial in 2009 resulted in a $138.6 million verdict against SAP.
The magistrate presiding over the case ordered a new trial
because of changed rules on how damages should be calculated.  A different jury in 2011 awarded $260 million to compensate
Versata for its lost profits plus $85 million as a reasonable
royalty on SAP’s sales. With modifications and interest, the
jury award has grown to more than $400 million, McKool said.  Part of SAP’s appeal centered on how damages should be
calculated. The company argued that, since SAP didn’t sell
Pricer to anyone after 2001, Versata shouldn’t be entitled to
compensation for lost profits.  “When SAP entered the market by bundling hierarchical
pricing into its enterprise software, the market for Pricer
disappeared,” Rader wrote. “Versata need not have actually
sold Pricer during the damages period to show demand for the
patented functionality, particularly given the economic reality
that SAP had eroded the market for Pricer through bundling
hierarchical access into its own software.”  Software Maintenance  Magistrate Charles Everingham, who presided over the trial,
ordered SAP to stop selling the pricing feature in its
enterprise and customer relationship-management software.  Everingham told SAP it must disable the capability from any
new placement in the software, wasn’t allowed to accept fees for
maintenance of the feature, and couldn’t add new people using
the technology to existing licenses. The Federal Circuit said
SAP should be able to provide maintenance or additional spots
for its customers, so said wording of the order, called an
injunction, should be changed.  SAP said its lawyers are reviewing the court’s ruling.  “We are pleased the court found the injunction was
overbroad and remanded it to the lower court for modification,”
Andy Kendzie, an SAP spokesman, said today. “Until we have had
a chance to review this ruling in detail, we will not comment
further.”  SAP reported operating profit adjusted for some items of
901 million euros ($1.19 billion) on sales of 3.6 billion euros
in the first quarter. The global market for enterprise software
will grow 6.4 percent this year and 6.7 percent in 2014 to reach
$316 billion, researcher Gartner Inc. said in March.  The case is Versata Software Inc. v. SAP America Inc.,
12-1029, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
( Washington ). The lower court case is Versata Software Inc. v.
SAP America Inc., 07cv153, U.S. District Court, Eastern District
of  Texas  (Marshall).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  