-- Schwab Sues BofA and Other Banks Over Libor Manipulation
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-05-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/schwab-sues-bofa-and-other-banks-over-libor-manipulation.html
Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , whose antitrust
claims against banks over manipulation of the London interbank
offered rate were tossed from federal court in  New York , sued
 Bank of America Corp.  and other financial institutions for fraud
in state court in  San Francisco .  Schwab alleged in a complaint filed April 29 that it and
other company entities purchased billions of dollars in Libor-
based instruments that are paying artificially low returns
because the banks agreed to depress the rate.  Bank of America and other banks won dismissal in March of
more than two dozen interrelated federal antitrust cases in
federal court in Manhattan brought by San Francisco-based
independent brokerage Schwab and other institutional investors.
U.S. District Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald ruled that the
plaintiffs were unable to show they were harmed.  In its new complaint against more than a dozen banks,
Schwab alleges they concealed their conduct even after questions
were raised beginning in 2007 about potential Libor
manipulation. The lawsuit includes claims of fraud, unjust
enrichment, violation of California unfair business practices
and federal securities laws and seeks to rescind purchases of
Libor-based instruments.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based  Bank of America , didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mail seeking comment on the complaint after regular business
hours yesterday.  Libor is a key metric for setting  interest rates  for
trillions of dollars in financial instruments. It fixes the
rates under which banks lend money to one another for as little
as a day and as long as a year. Rates for 10 different
currencies including the  U.S. dollar , Japanese yen and British
pound are computed daily after canvassing banks that comprise
membership panels for each type of money.  Barclays Plc agreed to pay 290 million pounds ($441
million) and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  paid $612 million
to U.S. and U.K. regulators to resolve Libor manipulation
claims. UBS AG agreed to pay 1.4 billion Swiss francs ($1.47
billion).  The case is Charles Schwab Corp. v.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
CGC-13-531016, California Superior Court, San Francisco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  