-- Shell Starts World’s Largest Gas-Capturing Plant in Iraq
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-05-01T12:32:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/shell-starts-world-s-largest-gas-capturing-plant-in-iraq.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)  and  Mitsubishi
Corp. (8058)  started operations at a $17-billion joint venture to
capture gas from some of  Iraq ’s largest oil fields.  The Basrah Gas Co. project, the biggest of its kind,
captures so-called associated gas flared from the southern oil
fields of Rumaila, West Qurna-1 and Zubair, according to a
statement on Shell’s website. Iraq’s state-owned South Gas Co.
holds a 51 percent stake in the 25-year venture, while Shell
owns 44 percent and Mitsubishi the remainder.  “Basrah produces only around 1 billion cubic feet a day of
associated gas and some 700 million cubic feet are being flared,
which is wasting millions of dollars of the country’s
resources,” Ali Khudair, director general of South Gas, said in
the statement. The project will help eliminate flaring and
provide fuel to industries, power generation as well as income
to the state, he said.  Iraq, which holds the world’s fifth-largest oil reserves,
sought foreign investors to increase gas output to end power
outages and supply electricity stations, which suffered from
decades of war and economic sanctions. The country’s power grid
remains unable to meet domestic demand 10 years after the U.S.-
led invasion that toppled  Saddam Hussein . The government plans
to export gas after it has satisfied domestic demand.  Basrah Gas will upgrade current facilities and build new
assets to increase production capacity to 2 billion cubic feet a
day from 400 million cubic feet a day, Shell said in the
statement. “A number of critical projects have already started,
like the new power plant at the Khor Al Zubair gas plant,
compressor stations in North Rumaila, as well as leasing
compressors to reduce gas flaring in the Zubair field.”  The project, the largest gas project in Iraq’s history,
also includes the option to build a liquefied gas plant for
potential export once domestic energy needs are met, according
to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kadhim Ajrash in Baghdad at 
 kajrash@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  