-- Singapore Must Be Careful Not to Overdo Labor Curbs, Lee Says
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2013-05-01T07:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/singapore-must-be-careful-not-to-overdo-labor-curbs-lee-says.html
Singapore must avoid going too far on
foreign-worker curbs to remain competitive in attracting
businesses and investors, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said.  The island should be careful not do “overdo” measures to
restrict the inflow of overseas labor as it will raise the cost
of doing business and make it harder for companies to operate in
the city-state, Lee said in a Labor Day speech to more than
1,000 union leaders and members today.  “If we make it too difficult for companies to get their
skills and talent which they need here, they will go
elsewhere,” Lee said. “Investors are watching us closely. We
must not send the wrong signal that Singapore no longer welcomes
business or that they are turning away talent.”  Singapore increased curbs on overseas workers for a fourth
straight year in February and unveiled measures that will result
in higher wage costs for companies through 2015, as the
government steps up efforts to increase productivity. A protest
is planned today over labor policies that some Singaporeans say
are hurting low-income earners and forcing citizens to compete
with foreigners for jobs.  The island’s job market will remain “tight” this year as
demand for workers outpaces supply amid the restrictions on
foreign labor, the  Monetary Authority of Singapore  said in a
report yesterday.  Protest Scheduled  Several thousand protesters gathered at the edge of the
city’s financial district in February to demonstrate against a
government plan to increase the island’s population through
immigration. Organizer Gilbert Goh, who runs a non-governmental
group to help unemployed citizens, is holding a second protest
today and said issues such as the lack of a minimum wage may be
raised.  Lawmakers from Lee’s party endorsed a set of proposals in
February to allow more foreigners through 2030 to boost the
workforce, which may help raise the island’s population to 6.9
million from 5.3 million.  While Singapore must manage the number of foreign workers,
“we have to be very careful as we tighten up because business
costs will go up, it will become harder for companies to operate
here, our competitiveness can be affected,” Lee said. “Our
costs of living can be affected because wages go up, costs go
up, prices will follow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  