-- Siri-Like Voice Echoes as Florida Lawmakers Clash Over Medicaid
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-05-01T18:48:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/siri-like-voice-echoes-as-florida-lawmakers-clash-over-medicaid.html
Imagine Siri, the virtual personal-
assistant application for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, on speed. That’s
what democracy sounds like in Florida right now.  For the second day, Florida House Democrats are protesting
the Republican majority’s refusal to expand Medicaid, as
envisioned by President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law, by
requiring all bills on the floor be read in full. Republican
Speaker Will Weatherford responded by using  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
text-to-speech software bought when Marco Rubio, now a U.S.
Senator, presided over the chamber in 2007, the last time
Democrats employed the tactic.  The software’s robotic female voice, named Mary, is set to
a speed of 45 seconds per page, making each word barely
understandable. At that pace, it would take five-and-a-half
hours to read the 421-page, $74.5 billion budget, which
lawmakers haven’t yet approved.  The setback in Tallahassee, the capital, has created
gridlock in the final days of the state’s annual spring
lawmaking session ending May 3. The slowdown has already delayed
debate or final votes on nine bills, said Ryan Duffy,
Weatherford’s spokesman.  “It’s the most important thing we do during the session,
hands down,” Representative Perry Thurston, the House
Democratic leader, told reporters yesterday about the slowdown.
“There will be a lot of bills that will be lost. But people who
need health care know that we’re fighting.”  Expansion Blocked  Legislative committees in both the  Florida  House and Senate
last month rejected expansion of Medicaid, the program for the
poor funded by the federal government and states. The action
marked a defeat for Republican Governor Rick Scott at the hands
of his own party. Scott, who started his political career by
financing a Tea Party group that opposed Obama’s health law,
changed his position after the November presidential election.  The Senate approved a bill yesterday that would use federal
funds to provide vouchers for about 1 million low-income
Floridians qualifying for the expanded Medicaid program to buy
private policies. Scott has said he supports the Senate plan.  The House proposal would provide about 126,800 residents
with $2,000 a year to buy private insurance. The House plan
costs the state about $237 million per year.  “They can’t stop the process, but they can slow it down,”
Weatherford said. “We’re OK with taking our time.”  Eight Governors  At least eight of 30 Republican governors have backed
Medicaid expansion. Of those, the five in states where their
party also controls the legislature -- Scott,  Arizona ’s Jan Brewer,  Ohio ’s John Kasich, Rick Snyder of  Michigan  and Jack Dalrymple of North Dakota -- are facing the toughest opposition.
These clashes show how difficult it will be for Obama to get his
Medicaid plan widely adopted.  An estimated 3.35 million of Florida’s 19.1 million
residents will receive Medicaid this year, according to the
legislature’s Office of Economic and Democratic Research.  An expansion under the federal law -- which increases
eligibility for a family of four earning as much as $31,800 this
year -- would expand the number by 1.28 million during the next
10 years, according to a November report from the Kaiser
Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured, a nonprofit group that
researches health care.  Republicans Object  Obama’s health law, which passed Congress in 2010 without a
single Republican vote, may extend insurance over the next
decade to about 27 million people who are currently uninsured.
The Congressional Budget Office estimates that 8 million more
will enroll in Medicaid programs next year because of the
expansion.  Expansion in Florida would cost the federal government an
estimated $66.1 billion during the next 10 years, according to
the Kaiser report. The state’s cost during that time would be
about $5.36 billion, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  