-- Sony Executives Give Up Bonuses After Loss at Electronics Unit
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-05-01T06:52:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/sony-executives-give-up-bonuses-after-loss-at-electronics-unit.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  executives will give up
their bonuses after its main electronics business was
unprofitable for a second straight year.  The board backed a proposal from Chief Executive Officer
 Kazuo Hirai  that management forgo bonuses worth 30 percent to 50
percent of their annual pay in the year ended March, Mami Imada,
a Tokyo-based spokeswoman said by phone today. She declined to
specify the amount of compensation being reduced.  Hirai pledged to revive Sony’s electronics operation by
cutting 10,000 jobs and shifting away from the unprofitable
television unit after he took the top job in April last year.
The CEO is expanding an initiative from last year when the 52-
year-old and his predecessor  Howard Stringer  didn’t get bonuses.  About 40 executives are returning the bonuses which were
scheduled to be paid after the general shareholders meeting in
June, according to Yu Kikuchi, a Sony spokeswoman.  Sony reported its first  annual net profit  in five years
last week, helped by one-time gains from asset sales and a
weaker yen. The company didn’t say how much the electronics unit
lost.  Net income was probably 40 billion yen ($410 million) in
the year ended March 31, compared with a net loss of 456.7
billion yen a year earlier, the company said in a preliminary
earnings statement April 26. That was in line with the 43.3
billion yen average of 18  analyst estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Selling properties and stock holdings generated about $2
billion in profit for Sony as it stumbles from losses in its TV
business and mobile-phone unit. Games, cameras and mobile
devices, including Xperia smartphones, are central to Hirai’s
plan to revive the consumer-electronics business after losing
ground to Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co.  The Nikkei reported the plan to give up bonuses earlier
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  