-- Stocks Beat Bonds, Dollar for Second Month
-- B y   L u   W a n g ,   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-05-01T20:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/stocks-beat-bonds-dollar-for-second-month-as-commodities-slump.html
Global stocks rose in April, beating
bonds, the dollar and commodities for a second month, as gold
and copper slumped into bear markets and investors bet equities
will benefit from unprecedented economic stimulus.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (SPX)  of equities in 45 markets
climbed 2.9 percent, including dividends, as the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index increased for the sixth straight month. Bonds
of all types returned 1.1 percent on average, the most since
July, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad
Market Index of 20,000 fixed-income securities. The Dollar Index
slipped 1.5 percent. The S&P GSCI Total Return Index of 24
commodities dropped 4.7 percent, the biggest decline since May.  About $850 billion was added to global  share values  and the
Japan’s Topix Index capped the best month in 14 years as
earnings increased at companies from Microsoft Corp. to Nomura
Holdings Inc. Bonds gained, driving yields to a record low, as
central banks maintained economic stimulus through debt
purchases. The dollar fell as investors sought riskier assets
while commodities tumbled on concern China’s growth is slowing.  “Equities are going up, because relative to other asset
classes, they remain attractive,” Terry Sandven, chief equity
strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth Management in  Minneapolis , said
by telephone on April 26. His firm manages $110 billion.
“ Interest rates  are near historic lows. Commodity prices
continue to be volatile. You’re seeing investors look toward
equities as a means to get paid.”  Best Performers  The MSCI world index slid 0.6 percent as of 4:34 p.m. in
 New York  while the S&P GSCI gauge dropped 2.1 percent following
weaker-than-forecast growth in global manufacturing and private
payrolls in the U.S. Treasuries remained higher as the Federal
Reserve commitment to asset purchases.  Japanese stocks rose the most among the world’s 45 largest
equity markets in April, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Tokyo-
based Nomura, Japan’s biggest brokerage, gained 37 percent as
quarterly profit more than tripled to a seven-year high.  The Topix surged 13 percent as investors bet  Bank of Japan 
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda’s stimulus plans will end 15 years of
falling prices and a weakening yen will boost profits for
exporters. Kuroda began his campaign by doubling monthly bond
purchases in a bid to reach 2 percent inflation in two years.
The Topix has rallied 37 percent in 2013 after eight consecutive
monthly gains, the longest stretch since 2006.  The  S&P 500  reached an all-time high, extending its gain
for the year to 13 percent. About 73 percent of the companies
that reported earnings in April  exceeded  analysts’ profit
forecasts, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , rallied 16 percent
as cost controls helped the world’s largest software maker
offset weak demand for personal computers running the new
Windows 8 operating system.  Earnings Visibility  “Stock prices are where they are because of improved
visibility on earnings, reasonable valuations and good prospects
going forward as the economy continues to improve in the U.S.
and the rest of world,” Paul Mangus, head of equity research
and strategy at Wells Fargo Private Bank in Charlotte, North
Carolina, said in a phone interview. His firm oversees $170
billion and owns more equities than benchmark indexes suggest.  While valuations are approaching the most expensive levels
in three years, stocks are still trading at a 20 percent
discount to historic  price-to-earnings  ratios. The MSCI world
index is valued at 16.5 times reported profits, compared with an
average multiple of 20.7 since 1995, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Even at record highs, U.S. stocks look cheap using a
valuation method favored by former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan 
that compares earnings with interest payments. Companies in the
S&P 500 generate profit equal to 6.4 percent of their share
prices, about 4.7 percentage points more than  yields  on 10-year
Treasuries, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Reconnect Down’  Bond and commodity markets reflect concern over slowing
global growth and deflation that equity investors have yet to
acknowledge, according to John Canally, investment strategist at
Boston-based LPL Financial Corp., which has $373 billion in
advisory and brokerage assets.  “Stocks are just off in their own world,” Canally said by
telephone on April 26. “They’re disconnected from bonds and
commodities. That usually doesn’t persist for too long. At some
point, they’re going to reconnect. Given where we are in stocks
and how poor the macro backdrop’s been, my guess is that the
stock market will reconnect down.”  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its global growth
forecast for 2013 on April 16 and urged European policy makers
to use “aggressive” monetary policy amid a second year of
contraction in the euro area. The world economy will expand 3.3
percent this year, less than the 3.5 percent forecast in
January, the Washington-based fund said.  Seasonal Weakness  Global stocks have  declined  during the second quarter in
each of the past three years, with losses in the MSCI world
index averaging 6.5 percent. The S&P 500 may finish the year at
1,601, according to the average estimate of 17 equity
strategists surveyed by Bloomberg. That implies the equity index
will be little changed from yesterday’s record close of 1,597.57
for the rest of 2013.  Emerging countries were among the world’s worst performing
equity markets, with indexes tracking Peru, Mexico, Colombia,
Chile, Russia and China posting losses of at least 2.6 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , Russia’s gas-export monopoly, sank 7.4 percent
and reached a four-year low on April 22 amid concern the company
will reduce dividends.  Cia. de Minas Buenaventura SA , Peru’s biggest precious-
metals producer, tumbled 21 percent as profit dropped for a
fifth quarter on falling metals prices and output.  Global Bonds  Of 26 government bond markets tracked by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies, all except
Japan’s gained in April. Spain’s debt has rallied 8.1 percent in
2013 and Ireland’s 7.9 percent.  The average yield to maturity of securities in Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Sovereign Plus Index
fell to an all-time low of 1.32 percent on April 29. The index
has increased 1.8 percent this year as of April 29.  European  government bonds  rallied as economists predicted
the  European Central Bank  will cut interest rates at its meeting
tomorrow. German  10-year bond yields  slipped to 1.18 percent on
April 30, the lowest level since July and approaching the
record-low of 1.13 percent.  Banks from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to UBS AG changed their
views to forecast a rate cut after gauges of European
manufacturing and services for April underscored weakness.  “It’s been a policy and liquidity driven market,”  Jim McDonald , chief investment strategist in Chicago at Northern
Trust Corp., which oversees about $810 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “This is all a reflection of people
wanting to get yield, looking at the central banks staying very
easy.”  Yield Forecast  Bonds of all types have rallied 1.7 percent this year as of
April 29, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global
Broad Market Index. Yields on 10-year Treasuries have fallen
about 9 basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, since the end of
December to 1.67 percent. The yield is forecast to rise to 2.3
percent by the end of 2013, a Bloomberg survey shows.  Local-currency bonds of  emerging markets  gained on
speculation Japanese stimulus plans will spur the nation’s
investors to buy higher-yielding assets overseas. The yield on
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s GBI-EM Global Diversified Composite Index
dropped 0.33 percentage point, the most since June, to 5.25
percent.  Currency Markets  Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the currency against those of six major U.S. trading partners,
fell about 1.5 percent in April, paring the gain this year to
about 2.5 percent. The gauge is forecast to climb to 85.2 by the
end of 2013, according to the median of 9 estimates of
economists and strategists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The euro was the best performer among 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes in
April, rallying 1.7 percent. New Zealand’s dollar has advanced
5.6 percent in 2013.  British sterling advanced 1.2 percent in April after a
report showing the nation’s economy avoided a triple-dip
recession dimmed speculation that the  Bank of England  will boost
stimulus. The U.K. currency has lost 3.2 percent this year.  The yen posted the biggest drop in April, falling about 5.7
percent after Japan’s central bank declared a “new phase” of
monetary easing, including plans to buy 7 trillion yen ($72
billion) of bonds a month.  Yen Weakens  Japan’s currency has fallen about 12 percent this year to
97.45 per dollar. The yen is forecast to weaken to 102 by the
end of 2013, a Bloomberg survey shows. It hasn’t breached the
threshold of 100 yen to the dollar since 2009.  The  yuan  strengthened 0.7 percent in April and reached a
19-year high against the dollar. People’s Bank of Deputy
Governor Yi Gang said on April 17 at an IMF conference in
Washington that the currency’s trading band will be widened “in
the near future.” The last revision, which doubled the maximum
permitted divergence from the central bank’s reference rate to 1
percent, was announced on April 14, 2012.  Oil Plunge  Oil prices  plunged in New York and London as growth in
China, the world’s biggest energy user, has grown by less than 8
percent in the past four quarters, the longest streak in at
least 20 years.  Brent crude  tumbled 7 percent, dropping below $100 a barrel
on April 16 for the first time since July and bringing its total
loss for the year to 7.9 percent. West Texas Intermediate, the
main U.S. grade, slipped 6 percent in April and fell as low as
$85.61 on April 18, its weakest intraday level this year.
Brent’s wider losses, intensified by a recovery in North Sea
supplies following oilfield maintenance, reduced its premium to
WTI to less than $9 a barrel yesterday, the narrowest gap since
January 2012.  Brent is forecast to average $110 a barrel in the third
quarter of this year, according to the median estimate of 38
analysts tracked by Bloomberg.  Gold futures on the Comex in New York fell 7.7 percent in
April to $1,472.10 an ounce, the biggest monthly drop since
December 2011. The metal slipped into a bear market on April 12
and is headed for an annual loss that would be the first after
12 years of gains. Prices plunged 9.3 percent on April 15, the
steepest slump since 1980, amid concern that Cyprus would be
forced to sell gold from its reserves and as investors were
selling exchange-traded products to buy equities.  ‘Inflation Problem’  “Some people have tried to scare people into buying gold
by saying there’s a global inflation problem coming,” said
 David Kelly , the chief global strategist at JPMorgan Funds in
New York. His firm oversees about $400 billion in mutual funds.
“There is not a global inflation problem, and there won’t be a
global inflation problem until developed economies get closer to
full employment.”  UniCredit SpA yesterday lowered its 2013 forecast to $1,500
from $1,700 and said the U.S. probably will end monetary
stimulus in the third quarter, curbing investor interest in the
precious metal as an inflation hedge. Prices may reach $1,050,
Deutsche Bank AG said April 18, while Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
forecast $1,390 in 12 months.  Copper dropped 6.4 percent to $7,055 a metric ton in London
trading, the most in 11 months, as slowing demand and rising
output from the world’s mines leave surpluses. In April,
stockpiles tracked by bourses in London, New York and Shanghai
reached the highest in more than nine years, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Credit Suisse said April 25 that the metal may
slip to $6,000, while Goldman cut its 12-month outlook on April
22 to $7,000 from an earlier forecast of $8,000.  ‘Best Value’  European Union carbon permits for December fell during
April after the European Parliament rejected a proposal to delay
supply of certificates, which would’ve bolstered prices. The
benchmark contract dropped 35 percent to 3.12 euros a metric ton
on London’s ICE Futures Europe, the second-biggest monthly
decline since February 2008.  “Gold, oil and base metals began to price in slower
economic growth,” David Donora, who manages $1.2 billion in
commodity assets at  Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd ., said by
telephone from London on April 25. “Slower economic growth
takes pressure off resources. On balance, commodities represent
better value at these levels.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  