-- Sugar Swings in New York on Delivery Speculation; Cocoa Stable
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-05-01T10:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/sugar-swings-in-new-york-on-delivery-speculation-cocoa-stable.html
Sugar swung between gains and losses
on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  as traders weighed forecasts for
ample supplies and speculation that the amount of sweetener to
be delivered via the exchange will be bigger than expected.
Cocoa and coffee were little changed.  Raw sugar delivered to the expired May futures contract
will probably be about 1.4 million metric tons, said Fabienne Pointier, an analyst at Lausanne, Switzerland-based researcher
Kingsman SA, owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. The contract expired
yesterday and ICE will publish the official figures today. Sugar
rebounded from a technical support at the 17.20-17.25 cents a
pound area, said Julien Benichou, a broker at Starsupply
Renewables in Nyon,  Switzerland . Producers will probably start
to sell from 17.70 cents upward, he said.  “Most of us are surprised by the size of the delivery,
which will probably be bigger than thought,” Kingsman’s
Pointier said. “The quantity is likely to be bigger than what
 Brazil  has already produced, so it will be interesting to see
how it plays out with the logistical constraints there.”  Raw sugar for delivery in July fell as much as 0.1 percent
to 17.58 cents a pound by 6:33 a.m. on ICE, after rising as much
as 0.5 percent earlier today. Trading volume was 66 percent
below the average for the past 100 days for this time of day,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed. White, or refined, sugar for
delivery in August rose 0.2 percent to $506.10 a ton on NYSE
Liffe in  London .  Sugar production in Brazil’s center south, the main
producing region of the world’s biggest producer, reached
237,000 tons in the first half of April, according to data from
industry group Unica. That is up from the 152,000 tons produced
in the same period last year. Harvesting in the area began this
month and rains delayed plans for an early start. Output will be
a record 35.5 million tons this year, Unica estimates.  Brazil Logistics  Record soybean and sugar-cane crops and a large corn
harvest in Brazil may generate logistical constraints on
transporting the commodities to ports. Potential delays to the
U.S. corn harvest may keep “loading firmly entrenched in Brazil
for a bit longer than expected, and that could complicate
transport of sugar to the port,”  Michael McDougall , a vice
president for Newedge Group in New York, said in an e-mailed
report yesterday.  Cocoa for July delivery was little changed at $2,370 a ton
in New York. Cocoa for delivery the same month was unchanged at
1,541 pounds ($2,399) a ton in London.  Arabica coffee futures for July delivery were little
changed at $1.3495 a pound on ICE. Robusta coffee futures for
delivery in July were down 0.1 percent at $2,005 a ton on NYSE
Liffe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 