-- Suntech Revenue Drops as Debt Restructuring Talks Advance
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2013-05-01T20:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/suntech-says-revenue-falls-as-debt-restructuring-talks-advance.html
Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the
Chinese solar company with its main unit in bankruptcy
proceedings, said the subsidiary will meet with creditors
earlier than anticipated as it reported a 48 percent drop in
revenue last year.  Wuxi Suntech will meet its creditors in Wuxi on May 22 as a
court in the Chinese city considers how to restructure its
debts, the company said today in a statement. Suntech said it
was delaying its full-year results after reporting $1.63 billion
in preliminary revenue.  “We are undertaking a number of restructuring initiatives
to address Suntech’s balance sheet and improve the Company’s
cost structure and operational efficiency,” Chief Executive
Officer David King said in the statement. “In the meantime, we
continue to manufacture and deliver” solar products, he said.  Suntech, once the top solar-panel manufacturer, may become
the largest renewable-energy insolvency after its main
manufacturing unit was pulled into bankruptcy by Chinese banks
on March 20 following its default on a $541 million bond
repayment. Today it reiterated that more than 60 percent of bond
holders agreed to hold off on exercising their rights until May
15.  The company also expects to enter discussions with
creditors of its main unit in  Europe , which was granted a two-
month provisional moratorium from creditor claims on April 9.
It’s seeking a “definitive moratorium.”  Suntech American depositary receipts, each worth one
ordinary share, slipped 4.4 percent to 66 cents at the close in
New York.  The company hasn’t released full earnings since March 2012,
four months before saying it may have been the victim of a fraud
involving 560 million euros ($739 million) of German bonds. The
company will delay full year results for 2012 as it works on
restating its earnings for 2011 and 2010.  Preliminary revenue in the fourth quarter was $358 million,
down 43 percent from a year earlier and gross margin was about
0.4 percent. It sold 1.8 gigawatts in solar products last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  