-- Syncreon Logistics Business Said to Be for Sale for $1 Billion
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-05-01T22:40:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/syncreon-logistics-business-said-to-be-for-sale-for-1-billion.html
Syncreon, a closely held logistics
company that ships goods for customers including General Motors
Co. and  Dell Inc. (DELL) , is up for sale, according to people familiar
with the process.  The  company , which has its operational headquarters in
 Auburn Hills , Michigan, may be valued at as much as $1 billion,
said three of the people, who asked not to be identified because
the talks are private. The owners, Irish businessmen Michael and
Brian Enright and New York-based buyout firm GenNx360 Capital
Partners, are working with JPMorgan Chase & Co. to find a buyer,
said two of the people. They’re also working with Morgan
Stanley, one of the people said.  Syncreon was formed in 2007 after the combination of Walsh
Western International, which served technology companies, and
TDS Logistics Inc., which focuses on the automotive sector,
according to the company’s  website . The company has activities
in 25 countries and about 12,000 employees, according to a
November press  release .  The effort to sell Syncreon comes amid a pick-up in car
sales and economic growth in the U.S. Light-vehicle sales are on
track for their best year since 2007, according to analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Consumer confidence  unexpectedly jumped
in April, showing the recovery in residential real estate is
buttressing the  U.S. economy .  Private-equity bidders are the likeliest buyers, though
logistics firms including  Deutsche Post AG (DPW)  may also take a look,
three of the people said.  Syncreon Holdings Ltd.’s sales rose to $912 million in 2011
from $689 million from the previous year, according to the
company’s most recent figures filed with the Irish companies
office. Operating profit fell to $32.4 million from $40 million
on higher salaries and wages.  A representative for Syncreon declined to comment.
Representatives for the company’s owners didn’t respond to
requests for comment on the proposed sale.  Last year’s biggest logistics deal was rejected by European
Union regulators.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  in 2012 offered
5.16 billion euros ($6.8 billion) to buy Dutch rival  TNT Express
NV (TNTE)  to expand in Europe. UPS appealed the ruling this April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
David Welch in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  