-- U.K. Factory Index Rises as Signs of Recovery Emerge: Economy
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-05-01T10:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/u-k-factory-index-rises-more-than-forecast-as-demand-improves.html
A  U.K. factory index  rose more than
economists forecast in April, indicating that manufacturing
barely shrank and adding to signs of an economic recovery.  The  gauge  increased to 49.8 from 48.6 in March, Markit
Economics and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply 
said today in London, just below the 50 level that divides
expansion from contraction. Economists had forecast a reading of
48.5, according to the median of 28 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. The pound strengthened.  The report follows data last week showing that gross
domestic product increased 0.3 percent in the first three months
of the year, exceeding forecasts. Still, manufacturers remain
under pressure amid weak demand in the euro area, the U.K.’s
biggest trading partner, while a report today showed factory
activity cooled in  China  last month.  There is a “glimmer of hope that the sector’s recession
might be coming to an end,” said Samuel Tombs, an economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “That said, these
improvements are all coming from very weak levels.”  The pound was trading at $1.5570 as of 10:55 a.m. London
time, up 0.2 percent from yesterday. Bonds declined, pushing the
yield on the 10-year gilt up 1 basis point to 1.70 percent.  Export Demand  The Markit report showed that output and new orders rose
last month for the first time since January. Manufacturers
benefited from a “modest improvement” in new export orders,
which they attributed to increased sales in  North America , the
 Middle East ,  Latin America  and  Australia . There was also a
“slight decline” in average purchase prices, with companies
paying lower commodity and fuel prices, Markit said.  Manufacturing was one of the U.K. economy’s weak spots in
the three months through March, shrinking 0.3 percent. Services
rose 0.6 percent.  “It is welcome to see the sector showing signs of
stabilizing,” Markit Senior Economist Rob Dobson said. “With
forward-looking indicators such as new orders and the demand-to-
inventory ratio also ticking higher, the sector should at least
be less of a drag on broader GDP growth in the second quarter.”  Separately today, recruitment company Reed said its index
of employment fell to 153 in April from 156 in March, which was
a record. The index is up from 134 a year ago.  China Slowdown  In a sign of the fragility of the global recovery, a
release in China today showed that  manufacturing  in the world’s
second-largest economy expanded at a weaker pace in April. The
 Purchasing Managers ’ Index was at 50.6, which compared with the
50.7 median forecast of 31 analysts in a Bloomberg survey and a
March reading of 50.9.  U.S. manufacturing  also probably cooled last month,
economists said before a report today. The  Institute for Supply
Management ’s factory index dropped to 50.6 from 51.3, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 84 economists.  Nevertheless, U.S. companies probably added 150,000 workers
in April after a 158,000 increase in March, economists forecast
ahead of figures from the Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP
Research Institute.  Markit will release its final March reading for  euro-area
factory activity  tomorrow. An estimate published on April 23
fell to 46.5 from 46.8, adding to signs the economy is
struggling.  The European Central Bank (EURR002W)  will cut its benchmark
 interest rate  to a record low 0.50 percent from 0.75 percent
tomorrow, according to the median of 70 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee left its
target for  quantitative easing  unchanged last month, with
Governor  Mervyn King  and two other officials defeated in a push
for more stimulus. Since then, the BOE has expanded its program
to boost credit to encourage lending to smaller companies. The
MPC will have new forecasts for economic growth and inflation at
its meeting next week.  “In terms of more BOE stimulus next week, the final nail
was hammered into that particular coffin by the surprise first-
quarter GDP figure,” said Rob Wood, an economist at Berenberg
Bank in  London . “But we continue to think further action is
necessary and will be forthcoming.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  