-- U.K. Lords Say Climate Inertia Risks Trillion Euros Investment
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-05-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/u-k-lords-say-climate-inertia-risks-trillion-euros-investment.html
European Union energy policy inertia
is freezing the 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) of investment
required to secure low-carbon power supplies in the region, a
committee of the U.K.’s House of Lords said.  A new policy should include a floor price for carbon and a
tighter cap on the number of allowances in the EU’s Emissions
Trading System, according to the report today from the Lords’ EU
Sub-Committee for Agriculture, Environment and Energy.  The price of emitting carbon plunged to a record low last
month after the 27-member bloc’s parliament voted against a plan
to cut a glut in supply created by the euro-area recession. The
EU needs to agree on clear policy to 2030 to create a stable
environment to attract institutional investors holding 13.8
trillion euros that could be invested in clean energy, the
committee said.  “The ETS has failed but it is not dead,” said Committee
Chairman Patrick Carter. “It needs to include a minimum price
for carbon, providing governments and investors with the
confidence to support innovation through investment.”  The EU should set a renewable energy target for 2030
alongside the existing 2020 goal to get a fifth of its energy
sustainably, according to the report. It should also establish
 energy efficiency  and consumption targets, as a large number of
coal plants close due to environmental rules, and develop EU-
wide regulation governing drilling for shale gas.  The committee, which heard evidence from  Vestas Wind
Systems A/S (VWS) , EDF Energy Plc, SSE Plc, the WWF and Bloomberg New
Energy Finance among others, pointed out that times have changed
from 2008, when the current EU energy and climate policy was
adopted. “The EU finds itself in a dramatically altered
economic situation,” it said. About 1 trillion euros is needed
in the current decade to secure supplies, according to the
report.  “We are therefore alarmed at the degree of uncertainty,
complacency and inertia about how an affordable supply of secure
and low carbon energy will be provided in the European Union,”
the committee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  