-- U.K. Property Prices Little Changed as Nationwide Sees Momentum
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-05-01T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/u-k-property-prices-little-changed-as-nationwide-sees-momentum.html
U.K.  house prices  were little changed
in April, according to  Nationwide Building Society , which said
there are signs of momentum in the  property market .  The average cost of a home fell 0.1 percent from March to a
seasonally adjusted 165,586 pounds ($257,000), the Swindon,
England-based customer-owned lender said today. From a year
earlier, prices rose 0.9 percent, the biggest annual increase in
14 months.  U.K.  mortgage approvals  rose more than economists forecast
in March and the  Bank of England  said home-loan availability may
improve in the second quarter as its Funding for Lending Scheme
helps to boost credit. The government expanded the FLS last
month to stoke Britain’s economic recovery.  “The number of mortgage approvals has edged up from the
levels prevailing last year,” said  Robert Gardner , chief
economist at Nationwide. “There are reasons for optimism that
activity levels will continue to strengthen.”  Lenders granted 53,504 mortgages, compared with a revised
51,947 in February and 50,505 a year earlier, the BOE said
yesterday. Economists had forecast an increase to 52,700 from an
initially reported 51,653, based on the median of 18 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey.  In the quarter through April,  home prices  rose 0.5 percent
compared with the previous three months, Nationwide said. It
added that policies focused on increasing the “availability and
lowering the cost of credit should continue to provide
support.”  The  U.K. economy  expanded 0.3 percent in the first quarter,
avoiding a triple-dip recession. Still, consumers are under
pressure, with inflation running above the BOE’s 2 percent
target and unemployment rising.  “There are tentative signs that wider economic conditions
are starting to improve,” Nationwide said. “Nevertheless,
progress is likely to be gradual.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 Jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  