-- U.S. Stepping Up Aid to Syrian Rebels as Arms Considered
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-05-01T18:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/u-s-stepping-up-aid-to-syrian-rebels-as-arms-considered.html
The White House is evaluating whether
stepped-up aid to opposition forces in Syria should include
arming the rebels, and no decisions have been made, President
 Barack Obama ’s spokesman said.  “We are constantly reviewing our assistance programs,”
White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said today in  Washington .
The U.S. policy has been to provide only non-lethal aid to
opponents of Bashar al-Assad’s regime, “but we are continuing
to review our options.”  Carney and other administration officials said the U.S.
remains concerned about weapons falling into the hands of
extremists engaged in Syria’s civil war. The U.S. is looking for
ways to increase pressure on Assad’s regime following
assessments by intelligence agencies, “with varying degrees of
confidence,” that small amounts of sarin nerve gas were used in
Syria.  Obama said yesterday that those assessments alone aren’t
sufficient to trigger a stronger U.S. response. While saying the
Defense Department has prepared a list of options, Obama
declined to specify what course the U.S. may take if the reports
are confirmed.  “What we now have is evidence that chemical weapons have
been used inside of Syria, but we don’t know how they were used,
when they were used, who used them,” Obama said. “If we end up
rushing to judgment without hard, effective evidence, then we
can find ourselves in a position where we can’t mobilize the
international community to support what we do.”  The U.S. is enlisting the  United Nations  and its NATO
allies in trying to corroborate the evidence.  Escalating Aid  The disclosure last week of the intelligence assessments
escalated calls from some members of Congress for the U.S. to
take further steps, such as imposing a no-fly zone over Syria or
providing arms to the rebels.  Obama said that confirmation that chemical weapons were
used by the regime “means that there are some options that we
might not otherwise exercise that we would strongly consider.”  The U.S. already is consulting with its allies about
sending opposition fighters communication equipment, armor,
night-vision goggles and vehicles to aid their fight, Caitlin Hayden, spokeswoman for the White House National Security
Council, said in an e-mail.  The Pentagon is “developing options for a wide range of
contingencies,” Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said today.  “We believe it’s important to have options on the shelf to
pull off in the event the president looks to us to exercise
those options,” he said.  Syrian Extremists  Little and Carney said the U.S. would move cautiously to
make sure aid doesn’t reach extremists. Some groups fighting the
Syrian regime have ties to al-Qaeda.  “We are fully mindful of the challenges posed by
extremists in Syria,” Little said. “That’s something that’s
obviously a factor as we examine the conflict there.”  Republican Senators  John McCain  of  Arizona  and  Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina  have been among the most vocal critics
of Obama’s approach in Syria, and yesterday they said the
president was trying to “defend the indefensible.”  “The uncertainty and ambiguity of our policy toward  Syria 
has contributed to our current crisis,” they said in a joint
statement. “It will not be long before Assad takes this delay
as an invitation to use chemical weapons again on an even larger
scale.”  The senators said the U.S. has a range of military options
short of sending troops into Syria and called on Obama to
“articulate exactly” the nation’s strategy and goals.  The anti-Assad uprising has killed more than 70,000 people
since it started in March 2011, according to UN estimates.  Most Americans continue to reject the notion that the U.S.
has a responsibility to do something about the fighting in
Syria, according to a CBS News/ New York  Times poll taken April
24-28. Sixty-two percent said the U.S. doesn’t have a
responsibility to intervene, while 24 percent saw a
responsibility to act.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  