-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for April 26 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2013-05-01T14:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-april-26-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged over 14.7 million
barrels per day during the week ending April 26, 2013, 222
thousand barrels per day above the previous week’s average.
Refineries operated at 84.4 percent of their operable capacity
last week. Gasoline production decreased last week, averaging
8.8 million barrels per day. Distillate fuel production
increased slightly last week, averaging 4.3 million barrels per
day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged about 8.2 million barrels per
day last week, up by 602 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have
averaged over 7.7 million barrels per day, 987 thousand barrels
per day below the same four-week period last year. Total motor
gasoline imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline
blending components) last week averaged 628 thousand barrels per
day. Distillate fuel imports averaged 265 thousand barrels per
day last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 6.7 million barrels
from the previous week. At 395.3 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are well above the upper limit of the average range
for this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories
decreased by 1.8 million barrels last week and are in the middle
of the average range. Both finished gasoline inventories and
blending components inventories decreased last week. Distillate
fuel inventories increased by 0.5 million barrels last week but
remained in the lower half of the average range for this time of
year. Propane/propylene inventories increased by 1.5 million
barrels last week, and are in the upper half of the average
range. Total commercial petroleum inventories increased by 12.4
million barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged 18.3 million barrels per day, down by 2.7 percent from
the same period last year. Over the last four weeks, motor
gasoline product supplied has averaged slightly over 8.5 million
barrels per day, down by 1.8 percent from the same period last
year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged 3.7 million
barrels per day over the last four weeks, down by 3.7 percent
from the same period last year. Jet fuel product supplied is 1.5
percent higher over the last four weeks compared to the same
four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  