-- Lufthansa Reaches Pay Deal With Union to Avert More Strikes
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-05-01T12:59:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/lufthansa-reaches-pay-deal-with-unions-to-avert-further-strikes.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  struck a deal
with the Ver.di union on pay and  job security  that averts
further strike action at  Europe ’s second-biggest airline.  The agreement, after two days of talks, covers the
airline’s ground staff, together with workers at the Lufthansa
Systems, Technik and Cargo units, Ver.di said in a statement.  Pay raises of as much as 5.2 percent will take place in two
stages, one in August and the other a year later, and will also
apply to trainees, according to the union, which said the accord
covering 33,000 employees will face a vote on May 14. Employment
guarantees are provided for 26 months from Feb. 1 this year.  “Jobs for thousands of Lufthansa employees have been
secured,” Christine Behle, who led the negotiations for Ver.di,
said in today’s release. “That was particularly important,
given the management’s expansive savings program.”  Strikes by employees and airport security guards have
grounded Lufthansa flights as it seeks to push through its most
ambitious efficiency drive ever. The Cologne-based company aims
to lift operating profit to a record 2.3 billion euros ($3
billion) by 2015 via a plan that calls for 3,500 job cuts.  ‘Differentiated Pay’  “Through difficult but constructive negotiations we have
agreed a fair compromise,” Stefan Lauer, Lufthansa’s lead
negotiator, said in a statement. “The labor deal is an important
marker in achieving differentiated pay levels within the group.”  Pay at Lufthansa Systems, Technik and Cargo is due to rise
2.4 percent this year and a further 2.3 percent next under the
accord. Ground personnel will receive an initial 1.5 percent
increase, followed by 1.5 percent more in 2014, with the lower
rate reflecting challenges at the airline unit, Lufthansa said.  Employees will forego pay increases in the first six months
of the deal as a contribution to the savings program, Lufthansa
said. Trainees will see a combined rise of 5.2 percent.  Ver.di effectively idled Lufthansa on April 22 when a full-
day walkout of 14,000 workers forced the cancellation of 99
percent of European services. A half-day strike on March 21 had
already resulted in the scrapping of more than 760 flights.  Lufthansa shares have advanced 6.6 percent this year,
valuing the business at 6.9 billion euros. The German stock
market is closed today for a public holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  