-- Ukraine Joins China as Targets in U.S. Global Piracy Fight
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-05-01T16:46:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/ukraine-joins-china-as-targets-of-u-s-fight-on-copyright-piracy.html
Ukraine’s copyright protections have
deteriorated to a level where the Obama administration may
consider trade sanctions, according to a U.S. report that also
cites  China  for trade-secret theft.  The U.S. Trade Representative’s office labeled Ukraine as
the lone “priority foreign country” today in its annual
assessment of enforcement of intellectual property rights. The
designation, reserved for nations the U.S. considers egregious
violators of IP trade law, can spark an investigation and,
potentially, an increase in tariff rates.  In releasing the report, the U.S. pledged “to take strong
action to support critical jobs and exports in IP-intensive
industries,” acting U.S. Trade Representative Demetrios Marantis said today in a statement.  The U.S. also urged China’s government leaders to take
“serious steps” to stop trade secret theft from American
companies tied to Chinese operators. “The theft of trade
secrets is an escalating concern,” according to the report.  Cyber attacks and corporate espionage originating in the
Asian nation have added tension in relations between the U.S.
and China, the world’s largest economies. White House National
Security Adviser Thomas Donilon said in a March 11 speech that
the U.S. is concerned about “cyber intrusions emanating from
China at a very large scale.”  Combat Theft  President  Barack Obama ’s administration in February
released a strategy to combat trade-secret theft, including use
of the USTR report to identify weaknesses in trade-secret
protections.  China remained on the agency’s “priority watch list” for
concerns about its failure to enforce intellectual property
rights, according to the report. Other countries on the list are
 Algeria , Argentina,  Chile , China, India, Indonesia,  Pakistan ,
Russia,  Thailand , and  Venezuela .  Ukraine is the first designated “priority foreign
country” in 11 years for issues including “severe
deterioration of enforcement in the areas of government use of
pirated software and piracy over,” according to the USTR. The
nation also isn’t negotiating in good faith to address U.S.
concerns, the agency said.  Film Studios  “Ukraine earned this designation by becoming an
international source of pirated music and films,” harming that
nation’s market and causing “spill over losses in the U.S.,”
the  Motion Picture Association of America Inc.  said today in a
statement. The Washington-based group, whose members include the
studios of the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  of Burbank, California, and  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Los Angeles-based Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp., is
led by Chris Dodd, a Democrat and former Connecticut senator.  Ukraine should “reverse recent backsliding and swiftly
resolve the problems identified today,” Marantis said. The
nation had no legal convictions for online piracy in 2012,
according to the report.  Other nations identified by the USTR are Algeria,
Argentina, Chile, India, Indonesia, Pakistan, Russia, Thailand
and Venezuela.  USTR removed Canada and Israel from the list this year
after the nations took steps to improve enforcement of
intellectual property rights, the report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  