-- Turkcell Dismisses Suit Against MTN Over Iran License   M
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-05-01T23:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/turkcell-dismisses-suit-against-mtn-over-iran-license-m.html
Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL) 
withdrew a lawsuit against  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN)  over bribes MTN
allegedly paid to get an Iranian mobile-phone license, citing a
 Supreme Court  decision that bars such cases in the U.S.  Turkcell, based in Istanbul, told U.S. District Judge
 Reggie Walton  in a court filing today in Washington that it
would drop the case because of the Supreme Court’s ruling last
month on the Alien Tort Statute. The case had been on hold while
the Supreme Court decision was pending.  Turkcell, Turkey’s biggest mobile-phone company, sued its
Johannesburg-based rival in March 2012 for $4.2 billion in
damages over the loss of the Iranian license it was initially
awarded. Turkcell claimed MTN, Africa’s largest mobile-phone
operator, bribed officials, arranged meetings between Iranian
and South African leaders, and promised Iran weapons and United
Nations votes in exchange for a license to provide wireless
service in the Islamic Republic.  The complaint includes numerous alleged internal MTN memos
that detail the company’s efforts to win the Iranian business
after losing the bid to Turkcell in February 2004.  Turkcell argued that the 1789 Alien Tort Statute gave it
the right to sue MTN in U.S. courts, a stance opposed by MTN.  Torture Cases  The Alien Tort Statute is usually cited in human rights and
torture cases. The law gives American courts jurisdiction in
some instances to consider claims by foreigners for illegal
conduct that occurred in another country.  The justices on April 17 threw out a suit accusing two
foreign-based units of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  of facilitating
torture and executions in Nigeria. The majority said the Alien
Tort Statute generally doesn’t apply to conduct beyond U.S.
borders.  The suit before the high court was pressed by Nigerians who
said two Shell units were complicit in torture and executions in
the country’s Ogoni region from 1992 to 1995. Shell denied the
allegations.  David Farber, a lawyer for Turkcell, said his client will
issue a statement on the dismissal. Tim Coleman, a lawyer for
MTN, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail message seeking
comment on the dismissal.  The case is Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS v. MTN Group
Ltd, 12-cv-00479, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 