-- Viacom Rises as Profit Top Estimates on Higher Ad Revenue
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-05-01T20:19:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/viacom-profit-exceeds-estimates-on-higher-ad-sales.html
Shares in  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  rose after the
owner of cable networks Nickelodeon and  MTV  reported fiscal
second-quarter profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates on
improved advertising sales.  Viacom gained 3 percent to $65.90 at the close in New York.
The company, which is controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone  and
also owns Paramount film studio, has gained 25 percent this
year.  Viacom, which relies on its television business for more
than  90 percent  of annual operating income, had suffered ratings
declines at its top-tier networks, including Nickelodeon.
Ratings recently improved, and an uptick in the advertising
scatter market -- where marketers buy commercial time closer to
air date -- helped increase ad sales.  “Ratings are up at several networks, and advertising
revenues have returned to year-over-year growth, up 2 percent,”
Chief Executive Officer  Philippe Dauman  said in the statement.  Net income fell 18 percent to $478 million, or 96 cents a
share, in the quarter ended March 31, compared with $585
million, or $1.07, a year earlier, the New York-based company
said today in a statement. Excluding some items, profit totaled
96 cents a share. Analysts projected  95 cents , the average of 30
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Affiliate Fees  Nickelodeon, whose ratings are up 9 percent this quarter,
is looking to add advertising revenue with its new iPad
application, which was made available in February. Viacom is
using its own measurement system to help advertisers purchase
media on the new app. Nielsen’s new online ratings software
still “has a lot of issues,” Dauman said on a conference call
with analysts after the report.  Affiliate fees from pay-TV operators are expected to rise
10 percent in the fiscal year ending in September, according to
the company. The estimate also includes licensing dollars from
online streaming providers such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  whose CEO,  Reed
Hastings , recently told investors he’s looking for more
exclusive rights in order to better compete against other
providers such as Amazon.com Inc.  Dauman, who said he’s open to exclusive terms, is currently
negotiating Viacom’s renewal agreement with Netflix, which ends
this month.  “We continue to see digital distribution as a growing
opportunity,” he said.  Sales declined 6 percent to $3.14 billion, short of the
average analyst estimate of $3.18 billion. In the television-network unit, sales rose 2 percent in the quarter to $2.23
billion. Viacom’s cable channels also include VH1, CMT, BET and
 Comedy Central .  Film revenue dropped 20 percent to $941 million, hurt by
lower home-video sales. Dauman said he’s optimistic about the
company’s film prospects later this year.  “The year ahead remains strong, with audiences eagerly
awaiting our upcoming tentpole releases -- ‘Star Trek Into
Darkness’ and ‘World War Z,’” he said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  