-- Voters in Poll Want 1 Party Running White House, Congress
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-05-01T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/voters-in-poll-want-1-party-running-white-house-congress.html
U.S. voters would prefer a White House
and Congress controlled by one political party, according to a
poll out today that also gives the Democrats a slight edge in
next year’s congressional elections.  The survey by Hamden, Connecticut-based  Quinnipiac
University  showed 48 percent of voters saying they want the same
party in charge of both the executive and legislative branches,
while 43 percent said they wanted political power divided. The
Democrats currently control the White House and the Senate while
the Republicans hold a majority in the House.  Voters who said they were independents favored divided
government, 53 percent to 35 percent.  By a 41 percent to 37 percent margin, voters said they
would support a Democratic congressional candidate over a
Republican nominee. Democrats would need a net pickup of 17
seats to win back the House.  “The question, of course, is whether that margin will be
there in 18 months when voters to go to the polls,” said  Peter Brown , assistant director of the Quinnipiac polling institute.  Under the last four presidents to serve two four-year
terms, the party that didn’t control the White House gained
congressional seats during three of the four off-year elections
following the chief executive’s re-election, the exception being
the Democratic gains in 1998 under  Bill Clinton .  In the latest poll, Democrats were helped by the same edge
among women that propelled President  Barack Obama  to a second
term. Women voters said they would vote for a Democratic
congressional candidate over a Republican, 44 percent to 35
percent. Men would vote Republican, 39 percent to 38 percent.  Budget Cuts  House Republicans  in March approved a budget plan that
would cut food stamps and college aid and replace traditional
Medicare with vouchers to buy either private insurance or a
government plan with a cap on expenditures. A Senate Democratic
plan would raise taxes on wealthy Americans instead.  Along with their polling edge, Democrats have been able to
open up an early fundraising advantage. The Democratic
Congressional Campaign Committee, which aids the party’s House
candidates, brought in $22.6 million from Jan. 1 to March 31,
while its counterpart, the  National Republican Congressional
Committee , raised $17.5 million, according to filings with the
 Federal Election Commission . The DCCC entered April with $8.9
million to spend; the Republicans had $8.1 million.  As the automatic federal spending cuts known as
sequestration sink in, voters disapproved of congressional
Republicans, 67 percent to 24 percent, as well as congressional
Democrats, 60 percent to 31 percent.  Job Approval  Voters “are down on both groups, just Democrats a bit
less,” Brown said.  Obama, meanwhile, had a 48 percent job-approval rating,
compared with 45 percent who disapproved. Even so, voters
disagreed with the way he was handling the economy, 53 percent
to 41 percent; and gun policy following the killings of 20
elementary school students in Newtown,  Connecticut , 52 percent
to 41 percent.  In the survey, which was conducted after the April 15
Boston Marathon bombing, voters said they approved of the
president’s handling of terrorism 55 percent to 38 percent.  The poll of 1,471 registered voters, taken April 25-29, had
a margin of error of plus or minus 2.6 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  