-- White House Feels Sequestration Pain in Staff Furloughs
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-05-02T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/white-house-feels-sequestration-pain-in-staff-furloughs.html
President  Barack Obama  began
experiencing first-hand the effects of across-the-board federal
spending cuts as the first wave of White House furloughs kicked
in yesterday.  The $85 billion in cuts known as sequestration hit White
House staffers with day-long furloughs scattered throughout the
next two weeks.  All staff classified as non-commissioned will miss one work
day without salary during May’s first pay period while
commissioned officers who, as assistants to the president don’t
qualify as leave-earners, will have to take a pay cut
commensurate with the planned furlough, spokesman  Jay Carney 
said.  “It affects everyone in the White House,” Carney told
reporters at yesterday’s daily briefing.  Administration officials said about 468 people work at the
White House, though they cited for that figure a payroll report
from July 2012 -- which doesn’t reflect turnover in the
administration -- and declined to provide updated numbers.  Approximately 25 percent of the staff was listed as an
assistant to the president, special assistant to the president
or deputy assistant to the president, the report showed.  Commissioned officers include Carney, Chief of Staff  Denis McDonough , senior adviser  Dan Pfeiffer  and National Economic
Council Director  Gene Sperling . Most of their support staff will
be furloughed and on those days won’t be permitted to come into
their offices or do any work from home, including checking e-
mail.  Furlough Impact  While departments are staggering the furloughs to minimize
disruption, the absence of personnel will hurt senior advisers
more than the pay cut, said  Keith Hennessey , former director of
the National Economic Council under President  George W. Bush .  “You need those junior staff to be there to make things
happen, to make the White House work,” said Hennessey. “The
structure relies very heavily on non-commissioned staff to make
the trains run on time. With them being down, it will just make
everyone’s job a lot harder.”  According to the  Office of Personnel Management ’s 50-page
Guidance for Administrative Furloughs, employees aren’t
permitted even to volunteer to do their jobs without pay during
any of the hours or days designated as furlough time off.  “Unless otherwise authorized by law, an agency may not
accept the voluntary services of an employee,” rules state.  Air Travel  Obama warned for weeks before the cuts went into effect on
March 1 that sequestration would be a “self-inflicted wound”
to the economy. He forecast disruptions to  air travel  due to
cutbacks at the  Federal Aviation Administration , and said the
spending reductions would throw 70,000 children off the  Head
Start  program and eliminate 4 million meals for seniors.  Last week, after furloughs of air-traffic controllers
forced delays at the nation’s largest airports and provoked
anger from travelers and the  airline industry , Congress voted to
allow the FAA to move as much as $253 million within its budget
to avoid further employment disruptions. Lawmakers didn’t
address the cuts in other programs.  Obama, at an April 30 news conference, said the spending
cuts were hurting the economy and U.S. workers. Still, he
indicated sequestration would continue unless Republicans in
Congress agree to replaces the across-the-board spending cuts
with a long-range fiscal deal that includes raising government
revenues and cutting entitlement programs.  “It’s slowed our growth,” Obama said of sequestration.
“It’s resulting in people being thrown out at work. And, it’s
hurting folks all across the country.”  Law’s Requirement  The law requires the executive office of the president,
with about 2,000 employees, to cut approximately $24 million
from its $711 million fiscal year 2013 budget request, according
to a report by the White House Office of Management and Budget
released the day the reductions took effect.  That amount pales in comparison with cuts mandated for
other departments: Customs and  Border Protection , for example,
must trim $512 million and the  National Institutes of Health 
stand to lose nearly $1.6 billion by the end of the fiscal year.  There are 11 parts of the Executive Office of the
President, and the White House Office is among 4 components that
have sent furlough notices to their staff. The others are the
Office of the Vice President, the Office of Management and
Budget and the Council on Environmental Quality.  Each division has a separate budget and has been managing
sequester cuts in a variety of ways including pay cuts, hiring
slow-downs, scaling-back supplies and equipment purchases,
curtailing staff travel and reducing the use of air cards and
subscriptions, an administration official said.  The next furlough period for White House staff hasn’t been
set, said the official, speaking on the condition of anonymity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  