-- Will Virgin Galactic Prove as Lasting as Pan Am Clipper?
-- B y   G r e g o r y   D L   M o r r i s
-- 2013-05-01T21:49:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/will-virgin-galactic-prove-as-lasting-as-pan-am-clipper-.html
Richard Branson’s Virgin Galactic
space venture successfully conducted its first rocket-powered
flight this week and may carry out a  trial voyage  into space by
the end of the year. More than 500 “ space tourists ” have
already signed up for the first commercial flight.  The idea recalls another wildly ambitious, even reckless,
business venture: The Pan Am clippers, which had an immediate
and powerful effect on both business and leisure travel that
extended well beyond the few well-heeled passengers flown in
just a few years of operation.  These flying boats were sui generis. They cut by half the
time required to cross the Atlantic, and slashed by two thirds
the time it took to cross the Pacific. When commercial
transpacific flights began in 1936, an importer based on the
U.S. West Coast could fly to meet suppliers in Asia, spend a
week holding meetings, making deals and inspecting goods, then
fly home in the same amount of time it used to take him just to
make the outbound crossing by ship.  In the late 1930s, trade with the West was a delicate issue
in parts of Asia. China was wracked by civil war and Imperial
Japan was focused on trade within its “Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere.” However, Hong Kong,  Manila  and the Dutch
East Indies remained thriving export markets for goods from
across Asia until the spread of World War II in 1941.  Asia Journeys  Perhaps the most remarkable thing about the “China
Clippers” is that they were practically willed into existence
by Juan Trippe, the founder of Pan American Airways. His
business acumen and commercial vision have been well documented.
Marine aviation was an essential component of his growth
strategy from the start, when Pan Am began connecting
destinations around the Caribbean and Latin America.  Even for Trippe it was an audacious reach to plan
transoceanic commercial aviation, just four years after Charles Lindbergh’s solo crossing of the Atlantic. His innovation was
island hopping: San Francisco to  Hawaii , Midway, Wake, Guam,
Manila and finally Hong Kong. The biggest and best aircraft at
the time was the Sikorsky S-40, introduced in 1931. It resembled
a boat attached to a huge parasol wing by a maze of struts, with
four stubby engines precariously lashed in between. It could
carry 32 passengers over a range of 600 miles, sufficient for
Pan Am’s Miami-to-Panama run, but it couldn’t cross oceans.  In 1934, Sikorsky delivered the S-42, a larger and more
streamlined craft, and with the same payload and twice the range
as its predecessor. That was sufficient for all but the first
leg of the Pacific route, San Francisco to Hawaii, which is
2,400 miles. Pan Am took 10 S-42s for its Rio run, and tried to
upgrade them with more powerful engines and fuel capacity for
the Hawaii hop. It wasn’t commercially viable.  Turning to Martin Aviation, Trippe bought a trio of M-130
flying boats. They had a range of 4,000 miles. One, the China
Clipper, flew the 8,210 miles from San Francisco to Manila in
six and a half days in November 1935. Having proved the
viability of the concept, the name was applied to the whole
fleet.  Commercial Pacific service began less than year later,
after Pan Am invested more than $1 million (about $17 million
today) in facilities at way stations. The M-130 could carry as
many as 41 passengers, but Pacific service was limited to just
14, who paid fares of about $1,500 (about $25,000 today). The
venture was a success, and was extended to New Zealand by way of
Samoa in 1937.  Flying Boats  The rock star of flying boats, the Boeing 314, entered
service on the North Atlantic run in 1939. With a range of 3,700
miles and a payload of 74 daytime travelers or half that many
sleepers, it could travel nonstop from Newfoundland to Foynes,
Ireland. Two accidents involving M-130s led Pan Am to deploy the
big Boeings on the Pacific routes, too.  During the war all the flying boats were put to use as
military transports, and went back to passenger service
afterward. But airframe and engine technology, along with the
proliferation of large airports, meant the flying boats’ era was
over. The last Boeing 314s were scrapped in 1950.  But they had changed commercial aviation and business
travel. In 1937, the steamship journey from San Francisco to
Yokohama took 15 days, and three more days to reach  Shanghai .
The Pan Am clippers did it in one-third the time.  Even on the Atlantic run, where the time savings was only a
couple of days, a new mindset for business and travel had
developed. In an article describing the departure of the first
314 for  Europe  on June 29, 1939, the  New York  Times described a
girl in the crowd calling to her mother, “Write me a letter!”
The mother replied with a laugh as she boarded the big Boeing,
“I’ll be back before the letter.”  (Gregory DL Morris is a member of the editorial board of
the Museum of American Finance, a Smithsonian affiliate. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Gregory Morris at  gdlm@enterpriseandindustry.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  