-- Hyatt Profit Falls as U.S. Demand From Large Groups Slips
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-05-01T20:37:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-01/hyatt-first-quarter-profit-falls-as-renovations-cut-into-sales.html
Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H) , the chain
controlled by the Pritzker family, said first-quarter profit
fell 20 percent as renovations cut into revenues and demand
declined for rooms booked in groups. The stock fell the most in
20 months.  Net income fell to $8 million, or 5 cents a share, from $10
million, or 6 cents, a year earlier, the Chicago-based company
said today in a statement. The average estimate of 14 analysts
was 8 cents a share, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue per available room, an industry measure of
occupancy and rates known as revpar, “was negatively impacted
by renovations at certain managed hotels” and a slowdown in the
group business, Hyatt said. The shift of Easter this year to
March from April last year hurt group demand, the company said.
Groups are defined as blocks of 10 or more rooms.  “Results came in below our expectations largely driven by
weak performance across full-service hotels, especially in the
U.S., impacted by renovations and group segment weakness,”
Nikhil Bhalla, an analyst at FBR & Co. in Arlington,  Virginia ,
said in a note following the earnings release. He has the
equivalent of a hold rating on the stock.  Hyatt fell 5.5 percent to $40.32 at the close in New York.
It was the biggest decline since Aug. 18, 2011.  Group Slump  Revenue from groups at full-service hotels in the U.S.
decreased 5.8 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier
and the number of nights booked fell 7.4 percent. Revpar at
full-service hotels in North America increased 2.7 percent.
Total revpar climbed 2.4 percent.  Adjusted earnings, which exclude some one-time items,
increased to 9 cents a share from 3 cents a year earlier. The
Hyatt directors approved a $200 million share buyback from
investors.  Marriott International Inc. (MAR) , the largest publicly traded
U.S. hotel chain, is scheduled to report earnings after the
market close today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  