-- 
‘Planet of the Apes’ Opens as Top Film With $54.8 Million

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 
2011-08-08T22:54:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/-planet-of-the-apes-opens-as-weekend-s-top-film-with-54-million-in-sales.html
“Rise of the Planet of the Apes,”
the prequel to the 1968 science-fiction classic, opened as the
No. 1 movie in U.S. and Canadian theaters this weekend, with
$54.8 million in sales for  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox.  “The Change-Up,” the only other film opening in wide
release, was fourth in its debut, generating $13.5 million in
sales for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures , researcher
 Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed statement.  “Rise of the Planet of the Apes,” featuring  James Franco ,
is the fourth Fox picture to open in first place in 2011 after
“X-Men: First Class,” “Rio” and “Diary of a Wimpy Kid:
Rodrick Rules.” It’s also the first from Chernin Entertainment,
the company led by former News Corp. President and Chief
Operating Officer  Peter Chernin . Chernin, 60, resigned from News
Corp. in 2009 to make films and TV shows.  “The success of ‘Planet of the Apes’ is better than anyone
expected,” Gitesh Pandya, chief executive officer of
 Boxofficeguru.com , said in an interview. “It’s a testament to
the strength of a film that is solid and has  good reviews .”  In the film, a chimp used in drug tests is endowed with
high intelligence. He leads a rebellion against harsh treatment
in the lab, setting the stage for the role reversal of humans
and apes explored in the original film. Franco plays a
sympathetic scientist who treats the young chimp with kindness.  ‘Smurfs’ Hold Second  Tom Felton , who played Draco Malfoy in the “Harry Potter”
films, co-stars as one of the chimp’s antagonists. The cast also
includes  Freida Pinto  and John Lithgow. The effects-heavy movie
cost about $90 million to make, according to the  Internet Movie
Database . The website  Boxoffice.com  had forecast weekend sales
of $39 million.  Last week’s second-place film,  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s “The Smurfs,”
held its position, with revenue of $20.7 million. Combining live
action and computer effects, “The Smurfs” stars Neil Patrick Harris as a  New Yorker  who helps the tiny, blue creatures after
they are forced from their village by an evil wizard. The movie
generated worldwide sales of $129 million in the first 10 days
of its release, Hollywood.com said.  The space-invader western “Cowboys & Aliens” fell to
third from first with sales of $15.7 million. The film stars
Daniel Craig as a gunslinger who joins with cowhands and Indians
to resist an attack from another planet. The movie, produced by
 Steven Spielberg , was made for an estimated $163 million and has
taken in $67.3 million in the U.S. since its Aug. 4 debut.  Raunchy Comedy Fades  In “The Change-Up,”  Jason Bateman  plays a harried father
and husband who swaps bodies, and lifestyles, with his swinging,
single buddy, played by  Ryan Reynolds . Olivia Wilde and Alan Arkin co-star. The film was made for an estimated $52 million
and met the forecast of Boxofficemojo.com.  “Captain America: The First Avenger,” slipped to fifth
from third with sales of $13 million for  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s  Paramount
Pictures . The PG-13 rated film has posted $143.2 million of
domestic ticket sales since opening as the No. 1 film during the
weekend of July 25.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 32 percent to
$161.8 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said.  Domestic box-office sales this year have declined 4.7
percent to $6.68 billion, while attendance is down 5.7 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Aug.
5 through yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Ashley Lutz in  New York  at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  