-- 
‘There’s a Girl Here’ Proves Recipe for Bank Growth in Mideast

-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k
-- 
2011-08-08T15:14:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/-there-s-a-girl-here-proves-recipe-for-bank-growth-in-mideast.html
Reem Qaraqe was a novelty at the
Bethlehem branch of  Bank of Palestine Plc (BOP) , and she says some
customers didn’t hide their astonishment. “There’s a girl
here,” was a typical remark. “Why?”  As the branch’s first female teller, Qaraqe says she
quietly fumed as she endured teasing and disrespect. She had
about reached her limit the day Munjed the fish seller showed
up, unfurled a wad of smelly shekels, threw it on the counter
and commanded her to deposit it. She says her first notion was
to hit him. Instead, she decided to try extreme politeness.  “I said, please sir, count your money and then give it
back. He was shocked,” says Qaraqe, 26, who wears a grey suit,
white blouse and pink scarf to work. “The next week, he came in
saying, ‘Hi Reem, how are you? Please make the deposit.’ He was
a different guy. Now I’m his best friend at the bank.”  The encounter in December 2007 was a turning point for
Qaraqe, who has an accounting degree from  Bethlehem University .
She says she realized that with the right attitude she could
gain even the most irascible customer’s confidence, supporting
her boss’s theory about how to attract depositors in an aspiring
country with a fledgling financial sector: hire women.  “The more I get women representing the bank, it brings
more money,” says Hashim Shawa, 35, the chairman and chief
executive officer of the Ramallah-based bank founded by his
grandfather in 1960. “Hiring women is directly correlated with
growth, better business, better reputation, better customer
satisfaction, more trust and less staff turnover.”  ‘Huge Potential’  Shawa’s gender-focused strategy stands out in the West Bank
and Gaza, where, according to the  Palestinian Central Bureau of
Statistics , only 15 percent of women work outside the home. At
the same time, Shawa says, the territories are “under-banked.”
 Israel  has 19.85 bank branches for every 100,000 adults and
Jordan has 17.79, according to the Washington-based  Consultative
Group to Assist the Poor.  In the territories, Palestinian
Authority statistics show, there are nine for every 100,000
people aged 15 and above.  “There’s huge potential for the development of the
financial sector,” Shawa says, and also for his bank. He says
building trust is the key in a place where people are buffeted
by violence and uncertainty, and that women are often better at
that than men.  “They are a bit more gentle, a bit more patient,” he
says, sipping tea in his office. He adds that he doesn’t want to
employ more of one gender than another. “When customers see a
good mix of women and men staff I think it portrays a different
image, a more stable, balanced image, and I think that then
translates into better confidence in the institution.”  Market Share  Shawa, who wears the industry uniform of a pinstriped suit
even in the heat of  Ramallah ’s summer, learned his trade during
nine years as a private banker, first in  London  with  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and then in Geneva with  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)  Since he took
over Bank of  Palestine  from his father in April 2007, deposits
have grown 85 percent to $1.2 billion and net profit 46 percent
to $30.1 million.  With $1.55 billion in assets in 2010, it was the second-
largest bank in the territories after Jordan-based  Arab Bank
Plc. (ARBK)  Its market  share of deposits  rose to 18 percent in 2010
from 13 percent in 2007, according to Amman-based Awraq
Investments. “Our increase in market share is almost in line
with the increase of female employment,” Shawa says.  ‘Old Guard’  Still, Bank of Palestine has a way to go. Its 209 female
employees are 20.6 percent of a payroll of 1,017. While that’s
up from 17.1 percent four years ago, Arab Bank’s staff in  Jordan 
is 38 percent female. At Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd., Israel’s
largest lender by assets, the CEO, Galia Maor, is a women and 63
percent of her employees in the country are female. While
Shawa’s board is all male, Arab Bank has two female directors.  Shawa, who says he’s confident women will become directors
at the next election in 2014, says he plans to increase the
female workforce to 25 percent next year and 50 percent in the
next 10 years. Two of his branch managers are women, and women
hold about 10 percent of all management positions.  The hire-women initiative began at the urging of his wife,
Bernardita, a former private banker with Citigroup who has a
Masters degree in gender studies from the University of Geneva.  It wasn’t a stretch for Shawa, whose grandfather, also
called Hashim, supported the emancipation of women and started a
high school for girls in Gaza. For what Shawa calls the bank’s
“old guard,” it hasn’t been so easy, he says, and managers and
senior executives still complain that maternity leaves make a
mess of work schedules.  New Policies  Last year, Qaraqe was one of four women in the Bethlehem
branch who gave birth and who each took three months off, with
pay. “I told them to coordinate next time,” says Issa Al-
Qassis, the branch manager. “It was very difficult. We had to
apologize to customers.”  Al-Qassis says he would rather not add to the 10 women, out
of 35 employees, working for him. Nasser Bakeer, who heads the
branch in Nablus, says women shouldn’t exceed 25 percent of
total staff because of the complications when women have
children. He adds that sometimes he finds it more difficult to
make demands of a female employee.  Shawa says he tells managers he’s hiring women for the
long-term, and that maternity leave is a “blip in their path.”  He has introduced new policies for working mothers, who
when his father ran the bank were permitted to take an hour off
during the workday to spend time with their babies. Some
complained they couldn’t get home and back in an hour, and now
they’re allowed to start an hour later or leave an hour earlier
instead, giving them more flexibility to manage their day.  Security Checkpoint  When the bank’s new headquarters in Ramallah’s financial
district, Ersal, opens, it will have a nursery for children.  Palestinian working mothers sometimes go to extreme lengths
for childcare. One woman, who asks not to be named, drives each
morning to the military checkpoint along the graffiti-covered
wall that separates Ramallah from  Jerusalem . There she kisses
her child on the cheek and hands over the car seat to her
mother-in-law, who looks after the child at her Jerusalem home
until the end of the workday, when mother and child meet again.  Challenges at the bank include unwanted attention from some
male customers. Nadia Habash, an architect who has done work for
Bank of Palestine, says she recently witnessed an encounter as
she stood in line at a  West Bank  branch, watching as a man
complimented a teller’s looks and offered her presents.  “She was very polite and quiet,” Habash says. “She kept
telling him, no thanks, I don’t want a gift, until he left.”  Statehood Quest  As the Palestinian Authority plans to pursue its quest for
statehood at the  United Nations  in September, its regulators are
taking steps to modernize the financial sector. The Palestine
Capital Market Authority is seeking to attract investors to the
securities, insurance and leasing markets and implementing
regulations for a more developed mortgage market.  “Every Palestinian company should be employing more women
because we have so many talented female graduates,” say Abeer
Odeh, the agency’s female CEO. More than 50 percent of college
students in the territories are female.  Palestinian Authority 
President Mahmoud Abbas’s 22-member cabinet includes five women.  “There is very little economic opportunity for women in
places affected by conflict,” says Zainab Salbi, the Iraqi-born
founder of  Women for Women International , a Washington-based
non-profit that helps women survivors of war. “Peacemaking is
about creating economic opportunities, as well as ending
conflict, and the Bank of Palestine’s focus on hiring women as
well as men can help that process.”  $50,000 Cash  Women in Gaza and the West Bank have to be won over as
customers, too, Shawa says. Some of the bank’s campaigns are
aimed exclusively at women, such as a weekly lottery that
awarded the winner 1,000 shares. A promotion called Secure Your
Family’s Future gives anyone who deposits $200 into a savings
account the chance to win $10,000.  Rula Naser, the manager of the branch in Beit Jala near
Bethlehem, recalls a woman was came in with $50,000 in a plastic
bag. “She was afraid at first because she had never been to a
bank,” Naser says. “She said now it’s dangerous to have a big
amount like this left at home.”  Shawa’s wife gave birth to their second child in July, and
the family lives in an apartment on top of the bank headquarters
in Ramallah, with views of the sea,  Tel Aviv  and the tomb of
 Yasser Arafat , the Palestinian leader who died in 2004. Evidence
of Shawa’s English ancestry -- his mother is English -- lurks in
his fridge, which during an interview before the holy month of
Ramadan held Colman’s English mustard and horseradish sauce,
along with Palestinian Taybeh beer.  Video Conferences  Born in Gaza and raised in countries from  Oman  to  Kuwait ,
Shawa, who has a construction management degree from  University
College London , says he hadn’t planned to take over the bank so
soon, returning after his father died of a heart attack.  Since then, he has navigated the global financial crisis,
the takeover of Gaza by Hamas and the fighting with Israel that
followed, during which more than 1,000 Palestinians and 13
Israelis died. Israel bulldozed orange groves his grandfather
had planted in northern Gaza to clear areas the Israeli Defense
Forces said served as cover for rocket and mortar fire. Workers
in the West Bank and Gaza mainly communicate through video
conferences because travel isn’t possible for most.  While it traces its history to 1960, the bank was shuttered
for 14 years. When the Israeli army entered Gaza in 1967, his
grandfather was ordered to change the name to anything without
the word Palestine, Shawa says. He refused and the bank was
closed, its sign covered in black paint. It reopened in 1981,
after a legal fight; Shawa moved the headquarters from Gaza to
the West Bank in 2007.  Now the bank has 45 branches in the territories; Arab Bank
has 23. Shareholders include HSBC and the International Finance
Corp., a unit of the  World Bank , which has a 5 percent stake.
Shawa’s grandmother Mahdiya owns 6.3 percent.  Bernardita Shawa says her husband’s commitment to hiring
women will benefit the bank, and the territories’ development.  “The more women there are in the bank, the more men will
accept them,” she says. “The world is moving towards  gender
equality . You can’t avoid it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Clark in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay in Paris at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  