-- 
Affluent Parents Won’t Give Kids a Free College Ride, BofA Says

-- B y   R y a n   M a c
-- 
2011-08-08T13:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/affluent-parents-won-t-give-kids-a-free-college-ride-bofa-says.html
About half of Americans with assets
of more than $250,000 said they won’t pay the entire tab for
their children’s college education, according to  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)   About 47 percent of those surveyed in the Merrill Lynch
Affluent Insights Survey released today said they didn’t or
won’t pay the full cost of higher education. Limiting access to
the bank of mom and dad will help teach their kids financial
responsibility, 29 percent of respondents said.  Tuition and fees for in-state students at public four-year
institutions averaged $7,605 for the 2010-2011 school year,
according to the  College Board , a New York-based nonprofit. At
private nonprofit four-year colleges and universities, costs
averaged $27,293.  “What the numbers show is just the rising cost of college
and the financial demands on middle class and affluent
families,” Andy Sieg, head of retirement services and global
investment solutions for the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
bank, said in a telephone interview before the survey was
released.  Having kids foot at least part of the bill for college is
an example of how a “sandwich generation” is coping with
caring for parents and dependent children at the same time, Sieg
said. With older generations living longer, high rates of
unemployment for recent college graduates and expectations to
work later in life, affluent individuals are changing their
views on financial planning, he said.  Saving early for college has become a generational trend,
as 60 percent of affluent parents age 35 to age 50 start college
savings accounts before or within the first year of their
child’s life, compared with 15 percent who were over age 65 and
began saving early, the survey said.  ‘Financial Know-How’  About half of parents said “financial know-how” was a
trait they hoped to impart to their children. Among parents who
used a financial adviser, 64 percent said they shared some of
their adviser’s guidance with their children, while almost 20
percent of parents age 51 and older had invited their children
to meet with the family’s adviser.  Parents also were inclined to lend a helping hand to adult
children with about 82 percent saying they would financially
support children in their “early adult years.” About
55 percent of these parents would permit so-called boomerang
children to come back and live at home, and 30 percent said they
would charge rent. More than 40 percent said they’d pay for
their child’s health insurance until they found a job. Parents
with employer-provided health insurance can add children to
their plans until age 26, under the health-care reform law
enacted last year.  Health Care  The survey also asked respondents about health-care costs
and inheritance. About 70 percent said health-care costs were
their top financial concern and 56 percent said they’re not
counting on an inheritance to help them with these costs or
during general retirement.  Those results are similar to an April study by U.S. Trust,
Bank of America’s private wealth management unit, said Sieg.
That survey of individuals with $3 million or more in investable
assets found that fewer than half said that leaving an
inheritance is important to them.  “They recognize that their parents’ generation is
absorbing a higher health-care cost and they will need their own
financial resources to secure their own lifestyles in later
life,” Sieg said.  Braun Research, based in Princeton,  New Jersey , contacted
1,000 Americans by telephone in June with investable assets of
$250,000 or more on the behalf of the bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Mac in  New York  at 
 rmac3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 