-- 
Afghan Women Lose in U.S. Drawdown: Coleman and Lemmon

-- B y   I s o b e l   C o l e m a n   a n d   G a y l e   T z e m a c h   L e m m o n
-- 
2011-08-08T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/afghan-women-stand-to-lose-in-u-s-drawdown-commentary-by-coleman-lemmon.html
(Corrects spending, deaths in second paragraph.)  As the U.S. begins withdrawing from
 Afghanistan , ordinary Afghans are wondering whether this is the
beginning of the end of serious American engagement.  After spending almost $450 billion and suffering close to
2,000 American deaths, will Washington cut and run? Or will it
seek a “responsible end” to the war, as President  Barack Obama 
has claimed?  The answer will depend in large part on how the U.S.
continues to support the Afghan government and people. Americans
are understandably tired of financing big, expensive initiatives
that are riddled with corruption and can’t be maintained by
Afghans themselves. As incoming Ambassador  Ryan Crocker  said,
the objective must be to invest in projects that meet the goal
of “sustainable stability.”  In a worrying sign,  Washington  is on the verge of
eviscerating one of its most successful and cost-effective
programs: improving maternal health.  After the  fall  of the Taliban in late 2001, modern health
care in Afghanistan was almost nonexistent. The situation was
particularly dire for expectant mothers: 1 out of 7 women in
Afghanistan died from pregnancy-related complications, and
roughly two-thirds of the country lacked even basic maternal and
child-health services, with the majority of women giving birth
at home without a skilled attendant. Even if a woman could get
to a hospital, there was little incentive to do so. Hospitals
had almost no life-saving equipment or medicines and few skilled
staff members. A cesarean section in an Afghan hospital was a
risk few were willing to take.  Danger From Birth  Although Afghanistan is still among the most dangerous
places in the world to give birth, the U.S. has helped lay the
groundwork for significant improvement. The Afghan Safe Birth
Project, funded by the  Department of Health  and Human Services,
has implemented quality-assurance programs to improve emergency
obstetric care in areas where doctors and hospitals are scarce.
In Kabul’s Rabia Balkhi Hospital, which houses the nation’s
second-largest maternity facility, the program has reduced
deaths due to system errors during c-sections by more than 80
percent in only two years.  In the rural regions where most Afghans live, the Community
Midwife Education program, supported by the U.S.  Agency for
International Development , has trained thousands of women to
work as midwives, even in zones where the anti-government
insurgency is strongest. There are now 32 midwife schools
nationwide serving all 34 provinces of Afghanistan.  New studies indicate that midwives are responsible for
significant  maternal mortality  declines in rural areas, too.  Fiscal Threat  This success is now in jeopardy -- not because of security
threats, but because of a fiscal one. In a classic example of
short-term thinking that undermines long-term goals, the U.S.
government recently eliminated the Afghan Safe Birth Project’s
budget of $5.8 million. As a result, the initiative has stopped
funding emergency obstetric and neonatal pharmaceuticals and
supplies. According to Dr.  Brian McCarthy , the Afghan Safe Birth
Project’s senior technical adviser, this could lead to an
epidemic of maternal and newborn mortality at Rabia Balkhi
Hospital, which delivers as many as 16,000 babies a year.  Health care is one of the few touch points that average
Afghans have with their government. Whether in urban hospitals
or rural clinics, they receive tangible benefits that improve
lives. Maternal health is arguably the most important marker of
a government’s ability to deliver health care to its people. The
processes, infrastructure and skills that need to be in place to
reduce maternal mortality form the backbone of a modern health-
care system. They also strengthen ties to the government,
bolster stability and foster economic growth.  Tenuous Transition  Moreover, investments in maternal health strengthen the
position of women, which is critical for Afghanistan during this
tenuous transition. Midwife programs in particular have been a
huge success in providing skills training and employment for
thousands of women in rural areas who have now become role
models in their communities.  A few years ago it was hard to get village leaders to
approve women’s participation in local midwife training
programs, but today there are long waiting lists. Families line
up to enroll their sisters and daughters in the two-year
training program. In midwife service areas, women report that
support for girls’ education and women’s economic and physical
mobility has improved as midwives move around their communities
sharing valuable information and delivering healthy babies.  The proof is in the numbers: Women who live in provinces
that have midwife schools were 40 percent more likely to access
skilled birth attendants and 17 percent more likely to access
prenatal care than women in provinces without midwife schools.  Fragile Gains  Although progress has been achieved, the gains are fragile.
Estimates indicate that it will take about seven years to train
the thousands of additional midwives needed to cover the entire
country and drive down Afghanistan’s daunting  infant  and
maternal mortality rates.  If the U.S. is serious about its commitment to increase
stability and promote development in Afghanistan as it draws
down troops, it should continue to support and promote maternal-
health programs. Few investments provide the same lasting
social, economic and even security returns -- and few programs
have proved as popular. Today the U.S. provides more development
assistance to Afghanistan than to any country in the world. This
assistance will inevitably decline, given current budget
constraints, which makes smart use of limited aid dollars all
the more important. Maternal health should lead the list of
those projects that meet the “sustainable stability” standard.  ( Isobel Coleman , author of “Paradise Beneath Her Feet,”
and Gayle Tzemach Lemmon, author of “The Dressmaker of
KhairKhana,” are fellows at the  Council on Foreign Relations .
The opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers of this article:
Isobel Coleman at  icoleman@cfr.org  or Gayle Tzemach Lemmon at
 gayle@gaylelemmon.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 