-- 
Agency Mortgage-Debt Spreads Widen to Most in Two Years After Downgrades

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-08-08T21:08:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/agency-mortgage-debt-spreads-widen-to-most-in-two-years-after-downgrades.html
Yields on the home-loan bonds of the
biggest U.S. mortgage companies  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac
jumped to the highest relative to U.S. Treasuries in more than
two years, after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S. government’s AAA
credit rating and those of the firms.  Fannie Mae’s current-coupon 30-year fixed-rate mortgage-
backed securities rose about 0.14 percentage point to 1.22
percentage points more than 10-year  U.S. government debt  as of 5
p.m. in New York, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
gap, which ended June at 0.87 percentage point, reached the
highest since April 2009.  Treasuries soared today as tumbling stock markets sparked
demand for the safety of government debt, sending borrowing
costs lower and reversing an initial decline in response to
S&P’s decision to cut the U.S. long-term rating. The firm’s
grades for Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , which have been sustained
by the government since 2008, are linked to those on America.
The companies’ home-loan bonds don’t carry official ratings.  Most of the reason for the wider spreads is “based on
uncertainties regarding prepayments and supply, not credit-based
downgrade fears,” Walt Schmidt, a mortgage strategist in
 Chicago  at FTN Financial, wrote in a note today to clients.  S&P today lowered the ratings of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
by one step to AA+ along with the grades of other government-
tied issuers including the Federal Home Loan Bank system and the
Farm Credit system. The firm also cut bonds guaranteed by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and National Credit Union
Association.  Indirect Impact  JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by Matt Jozoff wrote
today in a report that they “expect the biggest impact on
mortgages to be indirect via higher” interest-rate volatility.
This increases investor uncertainty about when the debt will be
repaid as projected refinancing by homeowners fluctuates and may
increase the cost of borrowing against government-backed
mortgage bonds in the repurchase-agreement market if sustained.  The cost of one-month  repurchase agreements , or repo,
financing for government-backed mortgage securities was
unchanged at 0.17 percentage point as of 2:54 p.m., according to
data from ICAP Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker. The
level reached 0.38 percentage point on Aug. 1 amid concern the
U.S. would default, the highest since Dec. 29. The rate has
averaged 0.23 percentage point this year.  Yields on the Fannie Mae current-coupon securities, which
most affect home-loan rates because they trade the closest to
face value, fell today along with Treasury yields. They slumped
0.10 percentage point to 3.54 percent, according to Bloomberg
data. On Aug. 4, they reached 3.41 percent, the lowest since
November.  Mortgage Rates  Recent drops in  mortgage rates  to near record lows will
boost supply in the mortgage-bond market, by increasing the
refinancing of debt held by the  Federal Reserve  to about $150
billion this year, according to the JPMorgan analysts. That’s
$15 billion to $30 billion more than they estimated earlier this
year, they wrote in an Aug. 5 report.  The refinancing of loans in securities bought by the Fed
typically means that borrowers are taking out new debt that gets
placed into bonds trading in the market, boosting what’s
available to investors. The Fed now holds about $900 billion of
home-loan securities, after purchasing $1.25 trillion through
March 2010 in a bid to support the economy.  Spreads on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s unsecured corporate
bonds and other so-called agency debt also widened. The gap for
Washington-based Fannie Mae’s $3 billion of notes maturing
August 2013 widened 0.03 percentage point to 0.18 percentage
point, the highest since they were issued in June and up from as
low as 0.11 percentage point on July 5, Bloomberg data show.  “The market lately has preferred to sell agencies because
their liquidity is inferior to Treasuries,” James Rhodes, a
strategist at UBS AG, wrote today in a report.  The U.S. agency mortgage-bond market, which is made up of
home-loan securities guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and
federal agency Ginnie Mae, totals about $5.3 trillion. Unsecured
U.S. agency debt amounts to about $2.5 trillion, according to
the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  