-- 
AIG Plans to Sue Bank of America Over Losses Tied to Mortgage Underwriting

-- B y   H u g h   S o n ,   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-08-08T21:55:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/aig-plans-to-sue-bank-of-america-over-losses-tied-to-mortgage-underwriting.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the bailed-out insurer, sued Bank of America Corp. over $10
billion in losses on mortgage-bond investments, saying it was
the victim of a “massive fraud.”  Bank of America and businesses it took over -- Countrywide
Financial Corp. and Merrill Lynch & Co. -- misled AIG as they
sought to profit off the bundling of mortgages into securities,
the insurer said in a complaint filed today in  New York  State
Supreme Court.  “Bank of America’s fraud caused billions of dollars in
damage to AIG and we are bringing this suit today to protect AIG
and the taxpayers’ stake in it,” Mark Herr, a spokesman for New
York-based AIG, said in a statement. “This is not the first
lawsuit that AIG has filed against counterparties that have
sought to profit at our expense, and we anticipate that it will
not be the last.”  The AIG lawsuit is the latest legal pressure faced by Bank
of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 51, who
took over as CEO last year. Last month, former Countrywide
investors including BlackRock Inc. sued Bank of America after
opting out of a $624 million settlement. Plaintiffs said the
subprime lender misled shareholders about its finances and
lending practices.  Deal ‘Unfair’  Last week, New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  said
he opposes the bank’s proposal for an $8.5 billion mortgage-bond
settlement that was negotiated with a group of institutional
investors. In a court filing, Schneiderman called the deal
unfair to investors and said he has potential claims against
Bank of America.  Bank of America fell 20 percent to $6.51 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. AIG fell 10 percent to $22.58.  The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank, the biggest U.S.
lender by assets, rejects AIG’s “assertions and allegations,”
said spokesman Larry DiRita.  “AIG recklessly chased high yields and profits throughout
the mortgage and structured finance markets,” said DiRita. “It
is the very definition of an informed, seasoned investor, with
losses solely attributable to its own excesses and errors.”  Bank of America and the other defendants created mortgage
securities backed by shoddy loans and sold the investments based
on inflated credit ratings that masked their true risk, AIG said
in the complaint. Offering materials “grossly understated” the
risks of loans tied to the securities the insurer purchased, the
company said.  ‘Massive Scheme’  AIG was also misled into believing that loans underlying
their investment were issued according to certain underwriting
guidelines that in fact had been “long abandoned,” according
to the complaint. The only measure of whether a loan would be
approved was whether it could be packaged into bonds and sold to
investors like AIG, the company said.  “The defendants were engaged in a massive scheme to
manipulate and deceive investors, like AIG, who had no
alternative but to rely on the lies and omissions made by the
defendants,” AIG said.  AIG, which took U.S. government bailouts starting in 2008
to avert a collapse, is seeking to recover $10 billion in
damages plus punitive damages after purchasing $28 billion worth
of securities, according to the lawsuit.  In addition to the lawsuit against Bank of America, AIG
today also sought to intervene in a separate case in which the
bank hopes to resolve claims from investors in 530 mortgage-
securitization trusts. The deal, which requires court approval,
calls for Bank of America to pay $8.5 billion.  ‘Fraction’ of Losses  AIG, which owns securities involved in the settlement,
wants more information to determine whether the agreement is
fair, it said in a court filing. The settlement, negotiated with
a group of 22 institutional investors, pays a “fraction” of
the losses estimated by that group, AIG said.  “Both the substance of the agreement and the procedure by
which it was made raise numerous questions as to the
reasonableness of the agreement,” AIG said.  AIG was first rescued in September 2008 after losses on
housing-market bets by the Financial Products unit. The bailout
was revised at least four times, swelling to $182.3 billion as
the U.S. extended more credit and lowered the interest charged.  The insurer repaid the last $21 billion it owed to the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York  and the U.S. Treasury
Department converted its preferred stake into 92 percent of
AIG’s common stock in January. The holding was reduced to 77
percent in May in a share sale.  The case is American International Group Inc. v.  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , 652199-2011, New York State Supreme Court
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 