-- 
Takeovers Prove Toxic for Arbs as Higher Bids Vanish: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 
2011-08-08T20:48:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/takeovers-prove-toxic-for-arbs-as-higher-bids-vanish-real-m-a.html
Ralcorp Holdings Inc. (RAH)  and Temple-
Inland Inc. are losing more money than ever for traders betting
on higher takeover offers.  Ralcorp, the biggest U.S. maker of store-brand foods, lost
$470 million last week, falling below an unsolicited proposal
from  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  for the first time since June 13,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Corrugated cardboard
maker Temple-Inland plunged last week by the most since
 International Paper Co. (IP) ’s $3.4 billion hostile bid was announced
in June, wiping out $350 million in market value.  Merger arbitragers are getting whipsawed as targets from
Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group Inc. to  M&F Worldwide Corp. (MFW)  fell
below the value of their offers amid speculation a faltering
U.S. recovery will limit financing and reduce the appeal of
equities. E*Trade Financial Corp. dropped 21 percent and  Walter
Energy Inc. (WLT)  plummeted 40 percent last week, removing any advance
since investors pushed for sales. The declines came as stocks
lost their gains for the year and the U.S. had its AAA credit
rating downgraded by  Standard & Poor’s  for the first time.  “Arbs probably got killed” on those bets,  David Abella , a
money manager at Rochdale Investment Management LLC in New York,
which oversees $4 billion, said in an Aug. 5 telephone
interview. “There is a risk that the deals don’t get done or
don’t get those higher offers. The appetite for doing deals goes
down in a weak market. Even for the deals that are still likely
to happen, traders are going to have more risk for holding a
position.”  Slim Jim  ConAgra, the Omaha, Nebraska-based maker of  Chef Boyardee 
and Slim Jim, boosted its offer for Ralcorp to $86 a share in
cash in May after saying Ralcorp rejected a proposal for $82 in
cash and stock. When Ralcorp adopted a so-called poison pill to
help prevent a takeover, ConAgra Chief Executive Officer Gary Rodkin signaled that he intended to take his $4.9 billion
proposal directly to shareholders. Ralcorp then announced plans
to spin off its Post Foods business.  Matt Pudlowski, a spokesman for St. Louis-based Ralcorp,
declined to comment on the proposal. Teresa Paulsen, a
spokeswoman for ConAgra, didn’t respond to a phone call or
e-mail requesting comment.  Ralcorp had traded above the offer price since June 13 until
the shares slipped below the bid on Aug. 2. The stock declined
9.1 percent last week, the biggest weekly drop since it was
announced.  Ralcorp closed at $78.66 on Aug. 5, 8.5 percent lower than
ConAgra’s proposal, indicating traders are less convinced of a
successful deal, said Scott Rostan, a former M&A banker at
Merrill Lynch & Co. and president of Training The Street, which
trains new hires at firms from Credit Suisse Group AG to
Blackstone Group LP. The shares fell 5.6 percent to $74.29
today, the lowest price since April 28.  Reevaluating Higher Bids  “Arbs may have to reevaluate their strategy,”  Mark Bronzo , who helps manage $26 billion at Security Global
Investors in Irvington,  New York , said in a phone interview.
“M&A will be relatively quiet as people wait to see a little
more certainty. They’ll have to really consider whether or not a
higher bid is going to come.”  The prospect of boosted offers dimmed as U.S. stocks fell
the most in 32 months last week. The S&P 500 slumped 7.2 percent
to 1,199.38, the biggest weekly drop since November 2008 and the
lowest level since Nov. 30, 2010. About $1.87 trillion has been
erased from the value of U.S. equities since July 22, including
the S&P 500’s 4.8 percent plunge on Aug. 4 that was the biggest
one-day drop since February 2009.  S&P stripped the U.S. of its AAA credit rating after
financial markets closed Aug. 5, cutting it one level to AA+.
President  Barack Obama , who signed the U.S. debt-ceiling
compromise into law Aug. 2, has said a rating cut may hurt the
broader economy by increasing consumer borrowing costs tied to
Treasury rates.  ‘Giving Pause’  “Anyone that has to tap the financing markets certainly is
going to be giving pause because there’s been a disruption in
the credit markets, to say the least,” Peter Lobravico, New
York-based vice president of merger arbitrage trading and sales
at Wall Street Access, said in an Aug. 5 phone interview.  Temple-Inland, an Austin, Texas-based producer of cardboard
shipping boxes, has twice rejected bids from International Paper
of as much as $30.60 a share in cash. That values the company at
$3.4 billion, plus net debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The stock, which has traded as much as 83 cents above the
offer on speculation International Paper may raise the bid to
negotiate a friendly transaction, tumbled 10 percent last week
for the biggest weekly drop since the approach was disclosed
June 6. Temple-Inland closed at $26.95 Aug. 5, 12 percent below
the bid from the world’s largest paper and pulp producer.  International Paper  “The current tensions in the market could make IP less
willing to up their offer, while Temple is saying they’re
grossly undervalued,”  Ed Sustar , a Toronto-based credit analyst
at Moody’s Investors Service, said in a phone interview. “Given
the more negative tone of the market, maybe the perception is
that IP may be less willing to increase its offer price.”  Temple-Inland had no comment, said Donald Cutler, a New
York-based outside spokesman for the company. The shares dropped
10 percent to $24.17 today, the lowest price since International
Paper’s bid was disclosed.  “We are committed to the current offer, for now,” Tom Ryan, a spokesman for Memphis, Tennessee-based International
Paper, said Aug. 5 by e-mail. “International Paper has secured
committed financing from  UBS Investment Bank , and the offer will
not be conditioned on financing.”  Bets on richer takeover prices reversed last week for
targets from car-rental companies to makers of licorice and
checkbooks.  Ron Perelman  After speculation traders would be able to extract the
biggest price increase of any U.S. deal from billionaire Ron Perelman, M&F tumbled below the June offer for the first time
last week to $23.41. That’s 2.5 percent lower than the
chairman’s $24-a-share offer for the maker of licorice,
checkbooks and standardized test forms.  Christine Taylor , a spokeswoman for M&F of New York,
declined to comment. M&F fell 15 percent to $19.84 today.  Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group Inc. (DTG)  was expected as
recently as May to garner the largest bid increase of any
pending deal in America over $1 billion as  Hertz Global Holdings
Inc. (HTZ)  and  Avis Budget Group Inc. (CAR)  vie for control. The Tulsa,
Oklahoma-based car-rental company dropped below Hertz’s cash-
and-stock bid on Aug. 4 for the first time since it was
announced in May. Hertz of Park Ridge,  New Jersey , extended the
approximately $2.1 billion tender offer to Sept. 9 from Aug. 5.  Richard Broome, a spokesman for Hertz, and  Andrew Siegel , a
spokesman for Parsippany, New Jersey-based Avis, declined to
comment on the bidding for Dollar Thrifty.  Stephanie Pillersdorf , an outside spokeswoman for Dollar Thrifty, didn’t
respond to an e-mail requesting comment.  ‘Clouds of Uncertainty’  “They’re seeing clouds of uncertainty, which is causing
them to be a little more cautious,” said Rostan of Training The
Street. “Given the uncertainty in the markets, targets’ share
prices are falling and the downward effect will hurt merger
arbs. The merger arb world is a very dangerous game.”  Premiums on companies that were perceived to be “in play”
were wiped out last week as investors lost confidence that
buyers would emerge in a slowing economy, Bill Kavaler, a New
York-based special situations analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son Inc.
said in a phone interview.  Walter Energy, the southern Appalachia producer o
steelmaking coal, surged 6.9 percent July 18 after shareholder
Audley Capital Advisors LLP sent a letter to the board saying it
should explore a sale following the resignation of CEO Keith Calder. The shares plunged 40 percent last week, leading the
decline in energy stocks in the Russell 1000 Index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Appetite ‘on Ice’  Michael Monahan, a spokesman for Walter Energy of Tampa,
Florida, didn’t respond to a phone call or e-mail seeking
comment.  E*Trade’s largest shareholder Citadel LLC pushed for the
online brokerage to explore a sale in a July 20 letter from
billionaire Ken Griffin’s hedge fund. Susan Hickey, a
spokeswoman for New York-based E*Trade, declined to comment on
deal speculation.  After climbing to $16.52 on July 25, E*Trade fell 21
percent to $12.59 last week, erasing all of the stock’s gains
since Citadel’s letter was disclosed, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The brokerage’s decline last week was steeper than 98
percent of  S&P 500  companies, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “All of the premiums for those stocks just vanished
because in this environment it just becomes much less likely,”
said Rochdale’s Abella. “Some of that appetite will come back,
but at least for now it’s on ice.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 