-- 
Malawi Devalues Kwacha by 10% Against the U.S. Dollar, Central Bank Says

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m   a n d   F r a n k   J o m o
-- 
2011-08-08T14:36:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/malawi-s-central-bank-devalues-the-kwacha-by-10-against-the-dollar.html
Malawi’s central bank devalued its
currency by 10 percent after a cut in foreign aid worsened
shortages of fuel and foreign currency.  The kwacha will sell for about 165 to the dollar,  Reserve
Bank of Malawi  spokesman Ralph Tseka said today by phone from
Lilongwe, the capital.  The  International Monetary Fund  has urged Malawi to
“ease” its  exchange rate , which was pegged at about 151 to the
dollar, and to end subsidies on fuel. President Bingu Wa Mutharika, a former World Bank economist, said June 24 that
Malawi wouldn’t devalue the kwacha without IMF support to
cushion the southern African nation against price rises.  Ruby Randall, the IMF representative in Malawi, didn’t
answer six calls to her phone seeking comment.  The U.K. withdrew aid worth $550 million for Malawi on June
2 after the government deported a British envoy who criticized
Mutharika in a leaked memorandum. The U.S. suspended a $350.7
aid accord to improve electricity supplies after Malawian police
killed 18 people protesting against rising costs and shortages.  Malawi depends on foreign aid to fund about 40 percent of
its annual budget.  ‘Not Enough’  The Malawi Bankers Association said the devaluation alone
isn’t enough to resolve Malawi’s economic problems.  “More needs to be done,” the association’s president, John Biziwick, said today in an interview in the commercial capital,
Blantyre. “Devaluation alone is not enough.”  Earnings from tobacco, which provides Malawi about 60
percent of its export income, may slump 33 percent to $300
million this year because farmers are rejecting low prices,
Finance Minister Ken Kandodo said in June.  Kandodo said Malawi’s economy would likely grow 6.6 percent
this year, its eighth year of expansion. The increase would be
little changed from the 6.7 percent recorded in 2010, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Jomo in Blantyre at 
 fjomo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 