-- 
Malaysian Palm Oil Output to Reach 18.1 Million Tons on Weather

-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-08-08T10:37:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/malaysian-palm-oil-output-to-reach-18-1-million-tons-on-weather.html
Palm oil output in  Malaysia , the
world’s second-biggest grower, will be more than an earlier
forecast as favorable weather boosts yields, the Malaysian Palm
Oil Council said.  Production may reach 18.1 million metric tons this year,
compared with 17.6 million tons forecast in February, Faudzy Asrafudeen, director of marketing and market development, said
on the council’s  website . The nation produced 17 million tons of
the tropical commodity last year.  “Malaysia will likely receive adequate rainfall amid fair
weather over the next three months, boosting future yields while
allowing normal harvesting,” said Faudzy. “The subsiding
effect of El-Nino, a reversal of the biological cycle and an
increase in fertilizer application are factors that would favor
a sizable recovery” of production, he said.  Rising supplies may pressure prices, which have slumped 25
percent since reaching a 35-month high of 3,967 ringgit on Feb.
10, as the La Nina weather effect brought heavier-than-usual
rainfall, disrupting harvesting. Inventories may reach 1.97
million tons by the end of December, Faudzy said.  Still, there is potential for prices to increase because of
the discount against  soybean oil  and the “heightened’ demand
from  China ,  Pakistan  and  India  during the upcoming festive
season. Prices of the tropical oil may average 3,300 ringgit a
ton in the second half of 2011, Faudzy said.  ‘‘The downward price trend of CPO which was seen over the
last three months is not likely to continue as demand will
increase in the next two months,’’ Faudzy said. ‘‘Exports for
the second-half of this year is expected to be bullish.’’  Indonesian output may increase by 1.7 million tons to 23.9
million tons as more oil palm trees reach maturity, he said.  October-delivery futures fell 1.9 percent to 2,994 ringgit
a ton, the lowest close since Oct. 21, on the Malaysia
Derivatives Exchange. Palm oil’s discount to soybean oil was at
$221.34 a ton today, compared with an average of $143.47 this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  