-- 
AirAsia Parent Said to Near Malaysian Airline Share Swap; Stocks Suspended

-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 
2011-08-08T06:53:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/malaysian-air-airasia-parents-said-to-near-share-swap-deal-stock-halted.html
AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) ’s biggest shareholder
may agree to exchange a 10 percent stake in the low-cost carrier
for stock of  Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS)  as soon as tomorrow,
according to a person involved in the discussions.  Malaysian Air’s government-controlled parent, Khazanah
Nasional Bhd., will give Tune Air Sdn. stock worth as much as
the AirAsia stake, said the person who declined to be identified
as the discussions are private. Sepang, Malaysia-based AirAsia,
the region’s biggest low-carrier, has a market value of $3.6
billion, about double Malaysian Air’s.  Cooperation between the two airlines, which both halted
their shares from trading today, could pare competition as
global economic concerns threaten to damp  air travel . Malaysian
Air could be able to focus on challenging  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) 
for premium travelers on long-haul routes, while ceding shorter
services to AirAsia, according to AmResearch Sdn., which
upgraded Malaysian Air to “buy” today.  “They should focus on cooperation instead of fighting each
other,” said Ang Kok Heng, who oversees $292 million as chief
investment officer at Phillip Capital Management Sdn. An
alliance could give the carriers improved bargaining power in
negotiating new routes and plane orders, while Malaysian Air
could also get help with fuel-hedging, he said.  Tony Fernandes , the chief executive officer of Sepang,
Malaysia-based AirAsia and the biggest shareholder in Tune Air,
declined to comment by text message. Khazanah spokesman Mohd Asuki Abas declined to comment when phoned by Bloomberg News.  AirAsia Growth  AirAsia has surpassed Malaysian Air in market value as
Fernandes expands its low-cost operations across the region. In
June, the carrier ordered 200 Airbus SAS A320neo airplanes. That
raised its total orders for A320 aircraft to 375, including 89
that had already been delivered, the  planemaker  said at the time.  The airline and Malaysian Air both halted their shares
pending announcements related to material transactions,
according to separate  Kuala Lumpur  stock exchange statements
today. CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. made announcements on behalf of
both carriers.  AirAsia has surged 56 percent this year in Kuala Lumpur
trading, making it the only one of the 18 stocks in the
Bloomberg Asia Pacific Airlines Index to have risen in the
period. It dropped 3.7 percent to 3.95 ringgit on Aug. 5.  Malaysian Air, based in Subang near Kuala Lumpur, jumped
8.1 percent last week, closing at 1.60 ringgit on Aug. 5.
Khazanah, Malaysia’s state investment company, owns 69 percent
of the carrier.  AirAsia flies to more than 20 countries, according to its
website. It has ventures in Thailand and  Indonesia , and it’s
setting up operations in the  Philippines , Vietnam and  Japan . It
offers long-haul flights through affiliate AirAsia X Sdn.  Malaysian Air flies to more than 100 destinations worldwide,
according to its  website . The airline in June announced an
agreement to join the Oneworld alliance, led by British Airways
and  American Airlines .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  