-- 
Taliban Downing of NATO Helicopter Not a ‘Watershed’ in War, Pentagon Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-08-08T18:58:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/taliban-downing-of-nato-helicopter-not-a-watershed-in-war-pentagon-says.html
The Aug. 6 downing of a North
Atlantic Treaty Organization CH-47 Chinook helicopter in eastern
 Afghanistan , killing 30 U.S. special operations troops, isn’t a
“watershed” implying new Taliban momentum, a Pentagon
spokesman said today.  “It’s a ‘combat’ incident,”  said the spokesman, Marine
Colonel David Lapan. “We take casualties. This one incident
does not represent any kind of watershed or trend.”  “As we have said, the Taliban was going to come back hard.
They were not going to take the losses they have suffered over
the last year lightly. They are going to try and inflict
casualties,” he said. “We still have the Taliban on the run.”  The U.S. special operations community will absorb the loss
and knows how to “soldier on,” Lapan said.  The retiring head of the U.S. Special Operations Command,
Admiral  Eric Olson , struck a similar theme today at his change-
of-command ceremony, where he said that personnel will “press
on.”  The 30 dead included 22 members of the U.S. Navy SEAL
commando force, some from the elite unit once known as SEAL Team
Six that carried out the May raid that killed al-Qaeda leader
Osama bin Laden in Abbottabad,  Pakistan , two U.S. officials said
Sunday on condition of anonymity.  None of those killed were from the SEAL Team Six squadron
involved in that raid, they said. The SEAL team today is
formally known as the Naval Special Warfare Development Group.
The officials spoke on condition that they not be identified to
discuss confidential details.  ‘Catastrophic’ Crash  Lapan said the Pentagon will release the casualty list 24
hours after the final notification of next of kin. In a
statement released after Lapan’s briefing, a Pentagon
spokeswoman, Navy Capt. Jane Campbell, said that due to the
“catastrophic” nature of the crash, individual bodies will not
be formally identified until they are returned to the  military
mortuary  at Dover Air Force Base in  Delaware .  “Because the remains are unidentified at this point,
next-of-kin are not in a position to grant approval for media
access to the dignified transfer,” Campbell said. “Therefore,
in accordance with DoD policy, no media coverage of the arrival
and dignified transfer is permitted. Families will however, be
given the opportunity to be present for the arrival.”  ‘American Resolve’  Speaking at Olson’s change-of-command ceremony at MacDill
Air Force Base in Tampa,  Florida , the home of the Special
Operations Command, Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said the
attack would not “derail” U.S. attacks on the Taliban and al-
Qaeda.  “We will send a strong message of American resolve,”
Panetta said. “From the tragedy we will draw inspiration to
carry on the fight and continue to hunt down those who would do
us harm,” he said.  Olson, a SEAL, will be succeeded as Special Operations
Command leader by another SEAL, Admiral  William McRaven , who
commanded the raid that killed bin Laden.  In a statement today, NATO said the helicopter carrying the
special operations troops was destroyed as it was flying into an
ongoing firefight in the Tangi Valley that targeted a Taliban
leader.  “The operation began as a security search for a Taliban
leader responsible for insurgent operations in the nearby Tangi
Valley,” the NATO statement said. “After commencing the
search, the initial security force on the ground observed
several insurgents, armed with rocket-propelled grenade
launchers and AK-47 assault rifles, moving through the area.”  “The security force and insurgents exchanged small arms
fire, resulting in several enemies killed,” NATO said.  Additional Forces Needed  “As the insurgents continued to fire, the combined force
on the ground requested additional forces,” NATO said. “Those
additional personnel were inbound to the scene when the  CH-47 
carrying them crashed, killing all on board.”  Lapan said NATO suspected that the CH-47 was downed by an
unguided rocket-propelled grenade, not a more advanced heat-
seeking shoulder-fired missile that might have indicated a new
level of Taliban capability.  Rocket-propelled grenades, designed to attack ground
vehicles, are sometimes used against helicopters. The two UH-60
Black Hawks downed during the October 1993 U.S. “Black Hawk
Down” raid in Mogadishu, Somalia, were hit by RPGs.  In a 2009 Joint Aircraft Survivability Report to the House
defense appropriations subcommittee, the Army examined
helicopter losses in Iraq and Afghanistan through 2008. The Army
lost 327 aircraft, with 469 fatalities.  Sixty-five of the aircraft and 100 personnel killed were
downed by hostile action; of those, 28 deaths were caused by
attacks from RPGs, according to the study.  Helicopter Destroyed  The helicopter, belonging to NATO’s  International Security
Assistance Force , went down in Maidan Wardak province, according
to a statement from the office of Afghan President  Hamid Karzai .
The helicopter was destroyed, shot down by the Taliban,
Shahidullah Shahid, a spokesman for the province, said in a
phone interview.  The loss marks the largest number of U.S. troops killed at
one time since the October 2001 start of the war to oust the
Taliban, which ruled Afghanistan and harbored al-Qaeda before
the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.  President  Barack Obama  said in June that the U.S. is
beginning this year to withdraw forces from the conflict and to
turn over control in some areas to the Afghan army and police.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  