-- 
All Nippon May Start Flights to Three European Cities as 787 Enters Fleet

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 
2011-08-09T08:50:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/all-nippon-may-add-flights-to-three-european-cities-with-787.html
All Nippon Airways Co., due to
receive the first  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 next month, said the aircraft
may allow it to add as many as three European routes that
wouldn’t support larger planes.  “The 787 presents us with a big opportunity,” President
Shinichiro Ito said in an interview in  Tokyo  on Aug. 1. The
carrier aims to start Dreamliner flights to  Europe  from Tokyo’s
Haneda Airport in February, he said. He declined to elaborate on
the possible destinations.  Boeing rolled out the first 787 painted in ANA’s livery on
Aug. 6 at its plant in Everett,  Washington  as it prepares to
begin deliveries of the aircraft following more than three years
of delays. The planes may allow ANA to add new routes in Europe
and  North America  as they can fly further than aircraft of a
similar size and are about  20 percent  more fuel efficient.  ANA, which has ordered 55 Dreamliners, is due to get 12 of
the planes by the end of March. Another eight will be handed
over in the subsequent 12 months.  Tokyo-based ANA last year began flights to Munich, its
fourth destination in Europe after London, Paris and  Frankfurt .
It is also due to begin a venture on European routes with
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  in October.  Overseas Expansion  ANA is bolstering its overseas network following increases
in capacity at Tokyo’s Haneda and Narita airports, and cuts made
by Japan Airlines Co. as part of a restructuring plan. Its
international flights will expand  16 percent  in the year started
April 1, compared with a 2 percent expansion for domestic
services, according to its website. New routes in  Asia  this year
include Manila and Jakarta.  The carrier started a venture with  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL)  in April and is also considering adding routes to
North America with the 787, according to Mitsuo Morimoto, an
executive vice president at the carrier  “Personally, I’d like to open a route between Seattle and
Kobe,” Morimoto said at Boeing’s plant in Everett, Washington,
on Aug. 6. “They’re sister cities and the 787 was born here.”  The carrier’s first commercial Dreamliner flight will be a
one-off charter service to  Hong Kong  from Narita. After that,
the 787s will initially be used for scheduled domestic services.  Won’t Compete  ANA fell 1.2 percent to 243 yen at the 3 p.m. close in
Tokyo, while the Nikkei 225 Stock Average declined 1.7 percent.
The stock has slumped 20 percent this year as  Japan ’s record
earthquake and ensuing nuclear crisis cut demand for travel.  ANA, which had  229 planes  in its fleet at the end of June,
is also investing in two low-cost carriers amid rising
competition from overseas budget airlines including Shanghai-
based  Spring Airlines  and Qantas Airways Ltd.’s Jetstar.  AirAsia Japan Co. and  Peach Aviation Ltd.  won’t clash as
they will operate from different bases and target different
markets, Ito said.  “The airlines won’t be competing against each other,” he
said.  Peach , formed by ANA and Hong Kong-based First Eastern
Investment Group, will start domestic flights from Osaka’s
Kansai airport  by March . The airline will lease 10 Airbus SAS
A320 aircraft and it aims to carry 6 million passengers within
five years.  AirAsia Japan, a venture with  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , Asia’s biggest
discount carrier, will begin flights in August next year from a
hub at Narita. It will operate on both domestic and
international routes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Cooper in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  