-- 
Allianz Seeks to Buy More Wind Farms, Solar Plants to Help Boost Returns

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-08-08T09:09:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/allianz-seeks-to-buy-more-wind-solar-plants-to-boost-returns.html
Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Europe ’s biggest insurer,
aims to acquire more wind farms and solar plants to help boost
investment returns.  “We will continue to invest in renewable energy and we
hope to make a number of investments in the second half of the
year,”  David Jones , chief executive officer of the Munich-based
insurer’s Allianz Specialised Investments unit, said in an
interview. “We have invested more than 1 billion euros ($1.4
billion) over the past five years in renewable energy. That’s
double what we had anticipated earlier.”  Insurers are searching for new investment opportunities as
low  interest rates  hurt returns from bonds and other fixed-
income securities, the asset class in which the industry
typically invests most of its customers’ money. Public opinion
has focused more on renewable energy after  Japan ’s Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear plant was damaged in the March earthquake and
tsunami, causing the worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl.  “Renewable energy investments have the advantage that they
offer relatively good risk-adjusted returns, a long duration,
and that they lack correlation with capital markets,” Jones
said.  Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer, said in June it
plans to increase its investments in renewable energy operations
such as wind parks and solar plants to about 2.5 billion euros
from a “low three-digit-million-euro range” to help boost its
investment returns. The Munich-based reinsurer most recently
 acquired  four photovoltaic plants in Italy.  Competition for Assets  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the biggest private-equity firm, said
earlier this month it secured financing for a 1.2 billion-euro
wind farm in the German  North Sea  as the nation abandons nuclear
power in favor of renewable energy.  “The emergence of new competitors such as Munich Re brings
more competition for the assets that are available, but it’s
also positive as new serious institutional types of investors
are indicative of the asset class becoming more mainstream,”
Jones said. “Returns are still significantly higher than they
were in the run-up to the financial crisis, but in the last six
months some pressure has returned.”  Allianz, which  targets  an internal rate of return of 7
percent to 8 percent from renewable energy investments, is
focusing on euro zone countries and has so far invested in 31
land-based wind farms and solar photovoltaic plants in  Italy ,
France and Germany with a total capacity of more than 600
megawatts. The insurer has made one investment in a wind park in
France so far this year.  “We expect to decide on whether we will invest in offshore
wind parks by the end of this year,” Jones said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  