-- 
Hamptons Scene: Fuhrman’s Farmhouse Gives Artist Summer Haven

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-08-08T15:09:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/hamptons-scene-glenn-fuhrman-s-farmhouse-gives-l-a-artist-summer-haven.html
Lenny is happy in the Hamptons.  “He’s in dog paradise,” says Lesley Vance, a  Los Angeles 
artist and owner of the Chihuahua-terrier mix. “In L.A. I have
to worry about bobcats and coyotes.”  Vance has relocated for the summer to Sagaponack on  Long
Island  as the  FLAG Art Foundation ’s first artist in residence.
She and her artist husband, Ricky Swallow, occupy a guest house
belonging to FLAG’s founder, Glenn Fuhrman, co-managing partner
and co-founder of MSD Capital LP, which manages  Michael Dell ’s
money.  Dressed in navy shorts and striped tank top, Vance is
sitting on the farmhouse’s porch, where the day starts with
granola and berries and a book. By 10 a.m., she is inside,
working on watercolors. There’s a studio on the first floor and
living quarters on the second.  She leaves the doors open so she can look out on the
farmland surrounding the house.  “That’s the best part of the studio for sure,” Vance
says.  In the afternoon, deer and geese come to the fields. That
and the flatness of the landscape remind Vance of  Wisconsin ,
where she grew up.  “It gives me a strange feeling of home,” she says. “Even
the humidity is comforting.”  Vance used to make representational still lifes until she
realized “it was getting in the way of what I was actually
interested in: the deep red of a poppy, or the way light hits
the side of the rock and the shadow it creates on the fabric.”  Solo Show  Her shift in approach has helped her career. The 2010
 Whitney Biennial  showed four of her paintings, and she is having
a solo exhibition at  David Kordansky Gallery  in Los Angeles,
through Aug. 13.  At her desk, Vance is working with a palette of blues,
pinks and greens. “The setting of this place will create the
base for my next body of work,” she says.  Besides painting, her routine includes trips to a nearby
farm stand and tennis with her husband on the backyard court. At
five, the couple goes to the beach, where Vance collects shells.  She observes “the hazy blue light that I thought only
existed in movies or novels. It’s the way the color of the sea
and the sky and the sand, they vibrate together.”  They take turns making dinner.  “Apparently there’s night life here, but that’s not us,”
Vance says. “Last night we watched the pilot for ‘Friday Night
Lights.’”  One exception: The Fuhrmans took them to Robert Wilson’s
Watermill Center benefit, attended by more than 1,000 members of
the art set.  “It was strange because I hadn’t socialized in weeks,”
Vance says.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 