-- 
Hannover Re Quarterly Profit Beats Estimates

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-08-08T06:30:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/hannover-re-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates.html
Hannover Re , the world’s third-
biggest reinsurer, said second-quarter profit climbed 4.1
percent, exceeding analyst estimates.  Net income rose to 166.2 million euros ($238 million) from
159.6 million euros in the year-earlier period, the Hanover,
Germany-based company said in a  statement  today. That beat the
151 million-euro average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Hannover Re, led by Chief Executive Officer  Ulrich Wallin ,
reduced its full-year profit target by 23 percent to 500 million
euros in May following claims from the earthquake and tsunami in
 Japan . The reinsurer reiterated that forecast today.  “Our group net income of 218 million euros for the first
half year should enable us, given a normal experience in the
second half of the year, to comfortably attain our targeted
year-end profit,” Wallin said in the statement.  Natural disasters cost insurers and reinsurers about $70
billion in the first six months of this year, according to
 estimates  by Guy Carpenter & Co., the reinsurance brokerage of
Marsh & McLennan Cos.  Swiss Re Ltd. and  Munich Re , the world’s biggest
reinsurers, last week said they expect reinsurance rates to rise
after posting second-quarter earnings that exceeded analyst
estimates. Zurich-based Swiss Re reported an 18 percent increase
in net income to $960 million, while larger rival Munich Re
posted a 3.8 percent rise in profit to 736 million euros.  Board Appointment  Reinsurers sell coverage to primary insurers such as
Allianz SE and  Axa SA (CS)  to help guard them against the cost of
major claims. Hannover Re is 50.2 percent owned by German
insurer Talanx AG.  Hannover Re shares dropped 20 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of about 3.9 billion euros. The Bloomberg
Europe 500 Insurance Index dropped 13 percent this year, while
Munich Re lost 18 percent and Swiss Re 16 percent.  Hannover Re said in a separate statement today that Claude Chevre will join its management board by Feb. 1, 2012, at the
latest. Chevre, 44, will succeed Wolf Becke, who retires on Jan.
1, and will assume responsibility for the life and health
reinsurance business together with board member Klaus Miller.
Chevre was previously head of life for Asian markets,  Spain ,
 Portugal  and  Latin America  at PartnerRe Ltd., Hannover Re said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich Bureau at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  