-- 
Apple Complaint Against HTC Over Flyer Tablet PC to Get U.S. Trade Review

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-08-08T23:20:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/apple-complaint-against-htc-over-flyer-to-get-trade-review-1-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s patent-infringement
complaint against  HTC Corp. (2498)  will be reviewed by a U.S. trade
agency that has the power to block imports of the Taiwanese
company’s phones and new Flyer tablet computers.  The International Trade Commission said it will investigate
Apple’s accusations that HTC infringed five patents related to
software architecture and user interfaces in portable electronic
devices, hardware for touch screens and movement sensors. Notice
of the decision was posted on the agency’s website today.  A trade judge last month said HTC infringed two other Apple
patents, a decision subject to review by the six-member
commission. If the commission agrees, it could order an import
ban on certain HTC phones that run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system.  HTC, based in Taoyuan,  Taiwan , has denied infringing any
Apple patents and pledged to challenge last month’s findings. It
has its own complaint pending against Cupertino, California-
based Apple, with a judge scheduled to release his determination
in September.  “HTC respects intellectual property and will continue to
protect and defend its protected innovations,” Grace Lei,
general counsel at HTC, said in an e-mail. “We will fully
cooperate with the ITC’s investigation and look forward to
showing that we are not in violation of any of Apple’s patents.”  In March, HTC released the Flyer, its first tablet device
in the U.S. to rival Apple’s iPad and Samsung’s Galaxy Tab. The
Flyer has a 7-inch screen and uses Android. The latest Apple
complaint also targets HTC mobile phones including the Droid
Incredible, Wildfire, EVO 4G and Desire.  The new complaint  is In the Matter of Portable Electronic
Devices and Related Software, 337-797, U.S. International Trade
Commission ( Washington ). Apple’s earlier case against HTC is In
the Matter of Certain Personal Data and Mobile Communications
Devices and Related Software, and the HTC case against Apple is
In the Matter of Portable Electronic Devices, 337-721, both ITC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  