-- 
Ares Management Buys Indicus Advisors to Expand European Credit Business

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-08-08T17:45:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/ares-management-said-to-buy-2-billion-credit-manager-indicus.html
Ares Management LLC, a Los Angeles-
based investment firm, is buying Indicus Advisors in a move that
increases its European corporate credit under management to more
than $5 billion.  Indicus oversees more than $2 billion in assets in
collateralized loan obligations and other credit funds, Ares
said in a statement today. Based in  London  and  New York , it also
provides advisory services on about $4 billion of investments.
Private-equity firm Cinven Ltd. had a 50 percent stake in the
firm, according to Indicus’s  website .  “We believe that European corporate credit will continue
to grow for years to come,” Tony Ressler, Ares’s executive
committee chairman, said in the statement. The terms of the
acquisition weren’t disclosed.  This is the third acquisition Ares has made this year to
expand its asset management group, the first in which it bought
an entire business. In April Ares agreed to buy about $2.5
billion in loans from Nomura Holdings Inc.’s debt management
group. In March it said it would buy a European CLO from Octagon
Credit Investors LLC. More than $30 billion of CLO management
contracts have been transferred since the start of 2010,
according to Barclays Plc data.|  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and return.  European Unit  Indicus Co-founders David Reilly and Ujjaval Desai will
become co-heads of Ares Capital Markets  Europe , and will be
responsible for all of its European syndicated debt and global
structured products, according to the statement. Seventeen
people at Indicus will join Ares in London and New York.  More than $7 billion of CLOs backed by widely syndicated
loans have been arranged in the U.S. this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Bank of America Corp. raised a $410
million CLO for Ares in January, according to the data.  There have been $408.9 billion of leveraged loans arranged
in the U.S. this year and $90.5 billion in Europe, Bloomberg
data show.  Leveraged loans are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and lower than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  