-- 
Mark Hatfield, Anti-War Republican Senator, Dies

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 
2011-08-08T13:54:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/mark-hatfield-anti-war-republican-senator-dies.html
Mark Hatfield, an Oregon Republican
whose anti-war views put him out of step with his party
throughout much of a 30-year career in the  U.S. Senate , has
died. He was 89.  Hatfield died last night in  Portland , the Associated Press
reported, citing a former aide, Gerry Frank. The Oregonian
newspaper said he died at a care center after being in ill
health for several years. No cause of death was given.  Mindful of the destruction he witnessed as a Navy ensign
during World War II and when he visited the Japanese city of
Hiroshima soon after it was hit with an atomic bomb, Hatfield
regularly dismissed as “madness” U.S. efforts to develop or
increase weapons of warfare. “The issue that Hatfield has
always cared most about is peace,” the Almanac of American
Politics wrote.  In a statement,  Oregon  Governor John Kitzhaber, a Democrat,
recalled Hatfield’s “moral compass, independence and
willingness to reach across the aisle.”  Hatfield won election to the Senate in 1966, after two
terms as governor, and served until 1997.  As chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee for the
first six years of  Ronald Reagan ’s presidency, he succeeded in
diverting $100 billion from Reagan’s military buildup to social
programs. He joined Democrats in mocking Reagan’s plans for the
space-based missile-defense system known as  Star Wars .  ‘Sheer Madness’  He derided as “sheer madness” Reagan’s request to resume
production of nerve gas for chemical warfare. In 1982 he joined
with Democrat Edward Kennedy of  Massachusetts  to propose an
immediate nuclear-weapons freeze in the U.S. He opposed
development of the mobile, multiple-warhead nuclear  MX missile ,
which he deemed “a monument to madness.” In 1986 he criticized
as an “immoral act” the U.S. bombing raid on  Libya .  He and  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa  were the only two
Republicans to oppose the 1991 Senate resolution authorizing
military action to evict Iraqi forces from  Kuwait .  “I’m often pegged as a pacifist. In fact, I am not,” he
wrote in a 2001  memoir . “I’m not totally opposed to military
force (for example World War II), yet I believe force should not
be used until all other options have been exhausted. And most
critically, we ought to address the causes of war -- poverty,
lack of education, health, racism, militarism, or conflict over
raw materials (such as oil) -- and work to prevent war in the
first place.”  Religious Beliefs  Mark Odom Hatfield was born on July 12, 1922, in  Dallas ,
Oregon, and grew up in nearby Salem, the state capital. An only
child, he inherited his religious beliefs from his devoutly
Baptist father, Charles, a railroad blacksmith, and his
political beliefs from his staunchly Republican mother, Dovie, a
teacher, according to a  biography  by Willamette University.  A freshman at Willamette when the U.S. entered World War II
in 1941, Hatfield joined the Naval Reserve and accelerated his
studies in political science to begin combat training by late
1943.  In the Navy, he served on landing crafts that ferried U.S.
Marines to battlefield beaches during the invasions of Iwo Jima
and Okinawa. In 1945, he visited Hiroshima as it began
recovering from the  atomic bomb .  “A great deal of what I feel now goes back to World War
II,” he told the  Associated Press  in 1986. “If you’ve been in
a war, you cannot help but have your views altered. And then, of
course, being in Hiroshima a month afterwards, that has left an
indelible impression. The devastation, the terrible devastation,
is not something one ever forgets.”  Political Science  After earning a master’s degree at  Stanford University  in
1948, Hatfield worked as associate professor of political
science and dean of students at Willamette until 1956. He served
in the Oregon legislature, became secretary of state in 1957 and
ran successfully for governor in 1958, defeating incumbent
Democrat Robert Holmes.  From the start, Hatfield played down party labels. His
billboards during the governor’s race didn’t include the word
Republican, and he told audiences he wanted to be “governor of
all the people,” according to an account in the New York Times.  In 1966, when the  National Governors Association  passed a
resolution reaffirming its support for the war in  Vietnam ,
Hatfield cast the only dissenting vote.  Limited to two terms as governor, he ran for Senate in 1966
and won the seat vacated by  Maurine Neuberger , a Democrat who
retired.  McGovern-Hatfield Amendment  In 1970, Hatfield partnered with Democratic Senator George
McGovern of  South Dakota  to propose legislation that would have
set a deadline for the end of U.S. military operations in
Vietnam. Strongly opposed by President  Richard Nixon , the so-
called McGovern-Hatfield amendment was defeated, 55 to 39.  He won four more terms, maintaining his popularity in
Oregon for bringing home federal funds for transportation,
environmental and health-care projects. He served a second stint
as chairman of the Appropriations Committee from 1995 until his
retirement in 1997.  Though Hatfield was known among some colleagues as “Saint
Mark,” his ethics came into question on occasion. He supported
a proposal for a trans-Africa pipeline by a Greek financier,
Basil Tsakos, who was paying Hatfield’s wife, a real-estate
agent, $55,000 for helping him find and decorate an apartment in
 Washington . A U.S. Justice Department investigation resulted in
no charges, and Hatfield donated the money to charity.  Hatfield and his wife, Antoinette, had four children.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at   cstevens@bloomberg.net  