-- 
Harper Clashing With Rousseff on Capital Controls May Herald G-20 Discord

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-08-08T12:55:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/harper-clashing-with-rousseff-on-capital-controls-may-herald-g-20-discord.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  may clash with Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff today
as she rejects pressure to scale back capital controls aimed at
checking a rally in her country’s currency.  Harper is in Brasilia for talks that will include currency
policies, Brazil’s ambassador to Canada, Piragibe Tarrago, said
last week. Harper may push Rousseff to rely less on capital
restrictions, such as taxes on bond purchases by foreigners,
which are undermining prospects for a G-20 agreement on
resolving global economic imbalances, said John Kirton, co-
director of the University of Toronto’s G20  Research Group .  Brazil may be preparing “more dramatic” currency policies
that could have “a negative ricochet effect on how the G-20
framework for strong, sustainable economic growth unfolds,”
Kirton said. “For that reason alone,  Canada  does need to try to
move our Brazilian colleagues into doing something that doesn’t
damage the broader G-20 process.”  Today’s meeting comes as central banks from  Switzerland  to
 Japan  try to offset currency gains amid concerns the  U.S.
economy  may be headed into recession, prompting investors to
seek assets from faster-growing regions. Latin America’s largest
economy has struggled to absorb its share of the more than $1
trillion in annual net private capital inflows to emerging
market economies, and Canada has seen record foreign investment
in bonds in each of the past two years. Brazil’s economy grew
7.5 percent last year after shrinking 0.6 percent in 2009, while
Canada posted 3.2 percent growth in 2010 after a 2.8 percent
contraction the year before.  Currency Gains  Brazil’s real has surged 45.3 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  since the beginning of 2009, the second-biggest gain
among a basket of 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
Canadian dollar has increased 23.5 percent over the same period,
the 11th biggest gain. The increases make it harder for
companies like Montreal-based forest-product maker Tembec Inc.
and Rio de Janeiro-based miner Vale SA to sell goods abroad.  While both countries have seen their currencies rise, they
differ on how to blunt the impact. A failure by Rousseff and
Harper to smooth over their differences could be a sign G-20
leaders will be unable to make progress on the issue when they
meet in  France  in November. The G-20  agreed in April  to work
toward “coherent conclusions for the management of capital
flows” as part of an “action plan” to support global growth.  G-20 Conference  The G-20 will “cooperate as appropriate, ready to take
action to ensure financial stability and liquidity in financial
markets,” the group said after a conference call in a statement
provided today by  South Korea ’s finance ministry.  Canadian spokesman Dimitri Soudas, speaking to reporters
about Harper’s visit, said it is “critical” for G-20 countries
to work together, adding that the group “agreed that stable
monetary and exchange rate policies must be a part of the
framework for strong, sustainable and balanced growth.”  To ease pressure on the real, Brazil has tripled a tax on
bond purchases by foreigners and raised levies on borrowing
abroad. Last week, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  slapped a tax
on bets against the dollar in the futures market.  Canada, which hasn’t intervened to affect the Canadian
dollar in 13 years, argues G-20 countries should move toward a
goal of freely floating exchange rates and no capital
restrictions. Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said in a
March  speech  to the Inter-American Development Bank that while
 capital controls  may be “appropriate” in some circumstances,
especially in countries with underdeveloped financial systems,
they should be temporary, targeted and “transparent.”  No ‘Moral Authority’  Mantega said other G-20 policy makers shouldn’t criticize
Brazil for trying to stem the rally in its currency. “These
countries are the ones causing the currency problems,” Mantega
said in an Aug. 5 interview in  Lima  ahead of a meeting of South
American finance officials. “They don’t have any moral
authority to speak against currency intervention.”  While he didn’t single out any country, Mantega has in the
past criticized the U.S. Federal Reserve for keeping its
benchmark rate between zero and 0.25 percent and buying assets
to stimulate the economy, as well as  China  for boosting exports
by keeping the yuan undervalued.  An Aug. 3 statement by the  International Monetary Fund 
called  Brazil ’s use of capital controls an “appropriate tool.”
Still, the Washington-based lender said such measures are
“prone to circumvention” and can have “distortionary
effects” on the economy.  ‘Legitimate Tool’  Former Canadian Prime Minister Paul Martin, who co-chaired
the first meeting of G-20 finance ministers in 1999, said
Brazil’s policies are a “legitimate tool” for blunting
speculation, and will do little harm to countries such as
Canada. He said one motivation for creating the G-20 was to help
developing countries cope with currency speculation in the wake
of the Asian financial crisis in the late 1990s.  “The reason that  Thailand  especially and  Indonesia  got
into difficulty is exactly the problem that Brazil is worried
about, which is the flow of hot money into the country,” Martin
said in an Aug. 2 telephone interview from Montreal. “It’s
perfectly understandable that a country’s going to want to
protect itself.”  Harper will be greeted by Rousseff at the Itamaraty Palace,
the home of Brazil’s Foreign Ministry, where the two leaders
will meet over lunch. While they are scheduled to hold a press
conference after their meeting, details haven’t been confirmed.
The next day, Harper will be in  Sao Paulo  to deliver a speech to
a business audience.  ‘Exploratory’ Trade Talks  Harper and Rousseff’s meeting, the first since the
Brazilian president took office Jan. 1, comes as the countries
try to deepen trade and investment ties. On a June trip to  South
America , Trade Minister Ed Fast said Canada will pursue
“exploratory” trade talks with Mercosur, the trading bloc
comprising Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay.  “Canada has had great difficulty looking beyond the  United
States  into the rest of the Americas,” Fast said in a July 29
interview. “Canadian businesses need to start opening their
eyes and saying, ‘Hey, here’s an economic opportunity we’ve
missed for too long.’”  The challenge for Brazil and Canada will be to overcome a
history of trade tensions, including a dispute dating from the
1990s over subsidies for aircraft manufacturers Embraer SA of
Sao Jose dos Campos and Montreal-based Bombardier Inc., said
Andrew Cooper, a research fellow at the Centre for International
Governance Innovation in Waterloo, Ontario.  The two countries haven’t always clashed at the G-20.
Brazil and Canada both opposed a proposed global bank tax at
last summer’s Toronto summit, where Harper presided, arguing a
levy would unfairly punish their banks for problems originating
elsewhere. Canada and Brazil have also resisted some French
proposals aimed at curbing rising food prices.  “There are huge historical differences, but there seems to
be a convergence now,” Cooper said by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 