-- 
Asian Currencies Advance on U.S. Downgrade; Yuan, Bonds Rally

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-08-08T08:42:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/asian-currencies-gain-led-by-singapore-dollar-on-u-s-rating-downgrade.html
Asian currencies strengthened, led by
the  Singapore  dollar and China’s yuan, on speculation global
funds will shift more cash into non-dollar assets after the U.S.
lost its top  credit rating  at  Standard & Poor’s .  The yuan climbed to a 17-year high after the central bank
strengthened its reference rate for the currency by the most
this year, while Singapore’s dollar gained the most in a week
and. Government bonds advanced in India and China as the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index of stocks slumped 2.4 percent, after a 7.8
percent slide last week that marked its worst performance since
October 2008.  Group of Seven policy makers vowed to take “all necessary
measures” to support financial stability and growth after S&P
cut America’s AAA rating by one level to AA+ on Aug. 5, citing
the failure of the political process to address the  budget
deficit . The downgrade has no immediate impact on the
creditworthiness of Asia-Pacific governments and companies, the
rating company said in a statement today.  “It’s the weak  U.S. dollar  which is mainly setting the
trend for the regional currencies,” said Tohru Nishihama, an
economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. in  Tokyo .
“With stock markets slumping, money flows into bonds, which is
also supportive of the currencies.”  The Singapore dollar climbed 0.4 percent to S$1.2143 versus
the greenback as of 4:22 p.m. local time, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The yuan gained 0.07 percent to 6.436 per
dollar while the Thai baht advanced 0.2 percent to 29.81.  Large Reserves  Emerging markets may attract funds as they have relatively
large foreign-exchange reserves and low debt-to-GDP ratios
compared to developed nations, according to Templeton Asset
Management Ltd.’s  Mark Mobius .  China  has the world’s largest
foreign reserves, totaling $3.2 trillion at the end of June,
while  Taiwan , South Korea and  Hong Kong  together have about $1
trillion.  “This improved ability to manage their currencies and
historically better ability to service debt is why we believe
emerging-market currencies have been so strong - and may
continue to be,” Mobius, who oversees about $50 billion as
executive chairman of Templeton’s emerging markets group, wrote
today in comments posted on the group’s website.  Global funds ploughed more than $1 billion into emerging-
market bond funds in the week to Aug. 2, with those focused on
local-currency notes recording their best inflows in more than a
year, EPFR Global said in an Aug. 5  statement . Singapore has the
top rating from S&P, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings.  Bonds Gain  China’s 3.99 percent note due June 2021 climbed, pushing
their yield four basis points lower to a three-week low of 4.02
percent.  India ’s 7.8 percent note due April 2021 rallied for a
fifth day, pushing its yield down by seven basis points to a
seven-week low of 8.24 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  “Investors expect policy interventions to preempt any
free-fall in financial markets,” said James Zhao, chief
investment officer in the international investment department of
CCB Principal Asset Management Co. in Beijing. “These include
the speculated QE3, Europe debt consolidation and possibly a
moderation in China’s monetary and fiscal tightening after
inflation pressure peaked.”  Market Interventions  The  European Central Bank  said yesterday it will “actively
implement” its bond-purchase program to prevent a debt crisis
from spreading in the  euro zone . Italian and Spanish 10-year
yields both reached euro-era records last week, while  Greece ,
Ireland and Portugal have received bailouts from the European
Union and  International Monetary Fund .  Concern about the safety of U.S. and European assets may
spur transfers of funds to  Asia . South Korean Vice Finance
Minister Yim Jong Yong said yesterday authorities will monitor
capital flows and the  exchange rate  and take prompt action when
necessary. The Philippine central bank will stem “excessive
volatilities” in the foreign-exchange market and “speed up”
reform of the non-deliverable forwards market, Governor Amando Tetangco said in an email today.  South Korea’s won weakened 1.5 percent to 1,083.23 per
dollar, its biggest loss since November. The currency touched a
three-year high of 1,048.30 on July 27. The Philippine peso
advanced 0.2 percent to 42.495, snapping a four-day losing
streak.  Yuan Fixing  China’s yuan closed 0.07 percent stronger at 6.4360, after
earlier climbing as much as 0.24 percent to a 17-year high of
6.4250. The People’s Bank of China fixed the  reference rate  0.23
percent stronger at 6.4305 per dollar, the biggest advance since
November. The currency is allowed to trade up to 0.5 percent on
either side of the official rate.  “China may accept faster yuan appreciation as the downside
of holding U.S. dollar assets is greater than that of slower
export growth,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based senior
strategist at Credit Agricole SA.  China buys dollars to limit appreciation as capital flows
into its economy, which has averaged 10 percent growth for the
past five years. The nation is the biggest foreign owner of
Treasuries, holding $1.16 trillion of the securities as of May,
U.S. Treasury Department data show.  Elsewhere, the Indonesian rupiah advanced 0.3 percent
against its U.S. counterpart to 8,548 and the Taiwan dollar rose
0.1 percent to NT$29.008. Malaysia’s ringgit fell 0.1 percent to
3.0185, reversing a 0.6 percent rally. India’s rupee weakened
0.4 percent to 44.925.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  