-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Copper Surges Most Since March

-- B y   D a n i e l   E n o c h
-- 
2011-08-11T21:44:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/asia-commodity-day-ahead-gold-rises-to-record-after-rating-cut.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  TOP STORY:  Copper Surges Most Since March as U.S. Jobless Claims Decline  Copper futures in New York rose the most since March after
claims for unemployment-insurance payments unexpectedly fell in
the U.S., tempering concern that the economy is faltering.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES  MMX Aims to Secure $1.8 Billion Funding Before Year-End (1)  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA, the iron-ore producer
controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , will seek $1.8
billion in loans for its Serra Azul project as soon as late
September.  Tata Bonds Beat Steel Companies on Rating Upgrade:  India  Credit  Tata Steel Ltd. bonds are rallying the most since May 2010,
beating competitors’ debt on speculation a rating upgrade will
help India’s most-indebted company reduce funding costs.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Lithium Use May Triple on Electric-Vehicle Growth, Talison Says  Lithium demand may triple by 2020 as more of the metal is
used in batteries for electric vehicles, said Peter Oliver,
chief executive officer of Talison Lithium Ltd., the world’s
largest producer.  MINING:  Molycorp Raises Rare-Earth Forecast as Profit Beats Estimates  Molycorp Inc., owner of the largest rare-earth deposit
outside  China , raised its full-year production forecast and
posted second-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as
mine sales volumes tripled.  Rare-Earth Prices May Move on Chinese ‘Hot Money,’ Neo Says  Chinese speculators stockpiling rare-earth minerals may
have more of an effect on the market for the commodities than
suppliers or users, said Neo Material Technologies Inc., a
Canadian metals processor.  BlackRock Buys ‘Compellingly Cheap’ Miners on Price Outlook (1)  BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest money manager, is
buying mining stocks this week amid a global rout in shares of
raw materials producers sparked by concern slowing economic
growth will sap demand for commodities.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Falls Most in Seven Weeks as Equities Jump, Margins Raised  Gold futures fell the most in seven weeks in  New York  as
equities rebounded and CME Group Inc. boosted margins to trade
Comex contracts, prompting investor sales after a rally to a
record topping $1,800 an ounce.  AGRICULTURE:  Potash Corp., Mosaic Rise After USDA Cuts Corn Forecast (1)  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., Mosaic Co., and CF
Industries Holdings Inc. led fertilizer producers higher after
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said the country’s corn
harvest will be smaller than expected.  U.S. Cotton-Crop Estimate Raised on California Harvest Gain (2)  The cotton-production forecast in the U.S., the world’s
largest exporter, was unexpectedly raised by the government on
signs that surging output in California and  Georgia  will ease
crop losses from a drought in  Texas .  Sugar Rises as  Brazil  Output May Shrink; Coffee, Cocoa Advance  Sugar rose to the highest price in more than a week as an
industry group in Brazil, the world’s largest producer, cut its
cane-crop forecast. Coffee and cocoa also gained.  Cattle, Hogs Gain on Tightening Supplies Amid Rising Feed Costs  Cattle futures jumped to a five-week high on speculation
that rising feed costs will force U.S. beef producers to curb
output. Hog prices also climbed.  Orange Juice Rises on Atlantic Storm Concern; Cotton Declines  Orange-juice futures gained the most in seven weeks on
signs of increased storm activity in the Atlantic Ocean,
spurring concern that crops may face damage in  Florida , the
world’s second-biggest producer. Cotton fell.  Grains, Soybeans Surge After Adverse Weather Cuts U.S. Crops  Corn, soybean and wheat prices surged, signaling higher
costs for food and biofuels, after the government said U.S.
farmers will harvest smaller crops than forecast last month
following a damaging heat wave.  Cargill Restarts Turkey Production After Salmonella Outbreak (1)  Cargill Inc. said the Department of Agriculture allowed the
restart of all ground-turkey production at an Arkansas plant a
week after the company recalled almost 36 million pounds of the
meat because of a salmonella outbreak.  Commodities Rise as U.S. Jobs Report Boosts Optimism on Economy  Commodities rose, capping the biggest two-day gain in three
months, after an unexpected drop in U.S. jobless claims spurred
optimism for the  U.S. economy , bolstering prospects for crop and
industrial-metal demand.  SHIPPING:  Baltic Dry Index Reaches Two-Week High as Capesize Rents Climb  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of commodity-shipping
costs, rose to the highest level in two weeks on stronger rents
for capesize vessels that haul coal and  iron ore .  ECONOMIES:  Yield Curve Flattest Since ‘08 on Rate Outlook: China Credit  Five interest-rate increases since September are driving
the spread between yields on China’s short-term debt and long-
term bonds to the least since 2008, amid speculation inflation
will slow from a three-year high.  U.S. Economy: Jobless Claims Unexpectedly Fell Last Week (1)  Claims for U.S. unemployment benefits unexpectedly dropped
last week to a four-month low, signaling the job market is being
hampered by a lack of hiring rather than more firings.  Singapore Miracle Dimming as Income Gap Widens Squeeze by Rich  Economic miracles sometimes need course corrections, even
in Singapore, which last year was home to more U.S. dollar-
millionaire households per capita than any other country,
according to Boston Consulting Group Inc.  Mortgage Rates  for 30-Year U.S. Loans Decline to Nine-Month Low  Mortgage rates for 30-year loans in the U.S. declined to a
nine-month low as concern grew that the nation’s economy is
slowing.  OTHER MARKETS:  U.S. Stocks Rally as Jobless Claims, Profits Offset  Europe  Woes  U.S. stocks rallied, reversing yesterday’s drop for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as a decline in jobless claims and
better-than-estimated corporate earnings tempered concern
Europe’s debt crisis is worsening.  Swiss Franc Drops Most Since 1999 on Possible Peg; Kiwi Climbs  The franc tumbled the most against the euro since the
shared currency’s 1999 debut after Swiss National Bank Vice
President Thomas Jordan said a temporary peg to the euro would
be legal as policy makers try to stem the franc’s gains.  Canada ’s Dollar Rises From Almost Six-Month Low as Stocks Surge  Canada’s dollar advanced from almost its lowest level since
February as a rally in stocks reduced demand for the greenback
as a refuge.  European Stocks Rally the Most Since May 2010; Salzgitter Surges  European stocks rose, with the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
surging the most since May 2010, as investors speculated that
recent losses have overestimated the slowdown in the pace of
economic growth.  Crude Oil  Advances on Lower Jobless Claims, Increase in Equities  Crude oil advanced as declining U.S. jobless claims sent
equities higher, adding to optimism that U.S. economy is
strengthening.  SPORTS:  Woods Shoots His Worst Opening Round Ever in Major at PGA  Through the opening hour of the U.S.  PGA Championship ,
 Tiger Woods  was in a familiar position: tied for the lead.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  