-- 
Asian Stocks Plumb Year’s Lows After S&P Cuts U.S. Sovereign Credit Rating

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-08-08T10:49:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/asian-stocks-plumb-year-s-lows-after-s-p-cuts-u-s-sovereign-credit-rating.html
Asian stocks fell, leading the
regional benchmark index toward its lowest close in almost a
year and driving  Australia ’s key gauge into a so-called bear
market after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S. credit rating,
fueling concern a global economic recovery is faltering.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the world’s biggest supplier to retailers
including Wal-Mart Stores Inc., dropped 2.2 percent in Hong
Kong.  Sony Corp. (6758) , which earns almost half its revenue in the
U.S. and  Europe , slumped 3.8 percent in Tokyo. Toyota Motor
Corp., the world’s largest carmaker, retreated 1.6 percent.  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the biggest global mining company, sank 4 percent
in Sydney as commodity prices tumbled. Some banks in the region
pared losses after the Group of Seven nations pledged to support
financial stability.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, which last week entered a so-
called correction after falling more than 10 percent from its
May peak, slumped 2.5 percent to 122.97 as of 7:38 p.m. in
 Tokyo , on course for the lowest close since Sept. 10, 2010.
About 12 times as many stocks declined as advanced on the gauge.  “Sentiment will take a hit from the U.S. downgrade, and
equities markets in particular are the preferred venue for the
expression of panic,” said Prasad Patkar, who helps manage the
equivalent of $1.7 billion at Sydney-based Platypus Asset
Management Ltd. “It’ll take another globally-coordinated effort
by central banks and regulators to allay concerns about the
knock-on impacts, which means a prolonged period of
uncertainty.”  The Asia-Pacific gauge pared losses after the  European
Central Bank  was said to be buying Italian and Spanish
government bonds, according to five people with knowledge of the
transactions. A spokesman for the ECB declined to comment.  G7 Pledges Support  Some banks earlier rebounded after the Group of Seven
nations pledged to take “all necessary measures to support
financial stability and growth” and members agreed to inject
liquidity and act against disorderly currency moves if
necessary.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index slumped 2.2 percent, closing at
the lowest level in more than a year.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index fell 3.8 percent, with the
index dropping 20 percent from a Nov. 8 high, which signals a
so-called bear market to some investors. China’s government is
scheduled to release economic data tomorrow including July’s
inflation figure which economists estimate will remain at a high
for the year of 6.4 percent.  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 2.2 percent.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 2.9 percent at the close of
trading in Sydney, slipping below the 4,000 level that marks a
20 percent retreat from its April 2010 high.  South Korea’s Kospi index lost 3.8 percent, the most in
almost two years, as speculation of overseas selling added to
investor concerns sparked by the U.S. debt downgrade.  Volatility Gauges  Gauges of volatility for Hong Kong and South Korea have
almost doubled in the past week. The HSI Volatility Index of
options of the Hang Seng Index surged 56 percent on Aug. 5, the
biggest one-day gain since data on the index began in 2001.  The Asia-Pacific gauge recorded its biggest weekly retreat
in almost three years last week as concern grew that the global
recovery is weakening. If it finishes the day at less than
124.94, it will be lower than the last price on March 15, when
the index recorded its bottom-most close for the year in the
aftermath of Japan’s worst earthquake.  Last week’s drop was the biggest weekly decline for the
MSCI Asia-Pacific Index since October 2008, when credit markets
froze after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The
gauge is down more than 10 percent from its May 2 high, a
decline that some analysts say signals a “correction.”  A global rout in equities sparked by concern economic
recoveries in the U.S. and Europe may falter has wiped out gains
this year for all major benchmark indexes in the world’s
developed markets except Iceland’s.  Emerging Markets  Three of the four largest emerging economies, known as the
BRICs, are also close to bear markets, while Brazil’s Bovespa
stock index entered one on July 27. China’s Shanghai Composite
Index closed in a bear market and the Bombay Stock Exchange
Sensitive Index, or Sensex, closed 19 percent below its Nov. 5
high. Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  fell 16 percent from an April 6 peak
through Aug. 5.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index sank 2.6 percent
today after sliding as much as 3.1 percent. In  New York , the  S&P
500  slid 0.1 percent on Aug. 5, after swinging between a loss of
2.7 percent and a gain of 1.5 percent as the U.S. unemployment
rate declined to 9.1 percent from 9.2 percent, beating
estimates. The credit-rating cut was announced after the market
closed in New York.  S&P announced the one-level reduction in the U.S.’s
sovereign-debt rating to AA+ on Aug. 5. The Treasury Department
said there is “no justifiable rationale” for S&P’s move, while
S&P’s officials stood by their decision and laid blame on a
political system that failed to adequately address deficit
reduction in the compromise law that President Barack Obama
signed this month to avert a default.  ‘Significant Issue’  Li & Fung sank 2.2 percent to HK$11.78 in  Hong Kong . Sony
slumped 3.8 percent to 1,759 yen in Tokyo, while Toyota slid 1.6
percent to 2,993 yen. Billabong International Ltd., the world’s
biggest surfwear maker that gets almost half its sales from the
Americas, fell 4.2 percent to A$5.06 in Sydney.  The U.S. downgrade “has added another significant issue
for the global economy and stock markets to overcome,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in equities at Pengana
Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “The risks remain to the downside
for economic growth, with a re-pricing of U.S borrowings likely
to impose a higher cost of capital in the future.”  Crude for September delivery fell as much as 4.3 percent
today on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , while a measure of
primary metals, including copper and aluminum, dropped 3.7
percent on Aug. 5.  Chalco, Rio  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. retreated 2.7 percent to
HK$5.88 in Hong Kong. BHP fell 4 percent to A$36.60 in Sydney.
Dongkuk Steel Mill Co., a South Korean steelmaker, plunged 11
percent to 30,400 won in  Seoul .  Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-biggest mining company,
fell 4.6 percent to A$68.66 in Sydney, set for the lowest
closing price in more than a year. Rio and Mitsubishi Corp.
offered A$1.49 billion ($1.55 billion) for the shares in  Coal &
Allied Industries Ltd. (CNA)  they don’t own to take the coal miner
private.        Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s largest
lender by market value, pared its loss to 1.4 percent after
falling as much as 2.2 percent before the G-7 statement, and
after the European Central Bank indicated it will buy Italian
and Spanish bonds in a bid to contain Europe’s debt crisis.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 8.4 percent this year
through Aug. 5, compared with drops of 4.6 percent by the S&P
500 and 13 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 12.6 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 12 times for the S&P 500 and 9.8 times
for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 