-- 
Mauritius Plans to Foreign Currency Diversify Reserves to Add Yuan, Rupee

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-08-08T17:05:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/mauritius-plans-to-foreign-currency-diversify-reserves-to-add-yuan-rupee.html
The  Bank of Mauritius  is seeking to
limit its foreign reserve exposure to the  U.S. dollar  and the
euro and will diversify to include more holding from trade
partners such as China, India and  South Africa .  “We are busy looking at the possibility of buying Chinese
bonds, also South African and Indian bonds just to diversify
away from too much dependence on the well-known euro and dollar
currencies,” Governor Rundheersing Bheenick told reporters in
Kenya’s capital Nairobi today.  The Port Louis-based central bank has doubled its reserves
to $2.9 billion since 2006, and “furiously” included new
commodity currencies such as the Canadian, Australian and New
Zealand dollars, as well as Norwegian kroner and Swedish kronor,
he said. That added to reserves denominated in pounds, euros and
U.S. dollars, Bheenick said.  Investor confidence has dropped after the U.S. sovereign
debt rating was cut by  Standard & Poor’s  on Aug. 5, and amid
worsening public debt problems in Europe.  “For the immediate future all of us should try to protect
our economies from the worst repercussions,” Bheenick said.
“One of them is to make sure we don’t get too exposed to these
particular reserve currencies.”  Mauritius, an Indian Ocean island with a population of 1.3
million, is a net importer of food and fuels, with 67 percent of
its import bills denominated in dollars. Europe is the country’s
main trading partner for tourism and textiles, its two main
sources of foreign currency revenue, according to the  Central
Statistics Office .  “We want to move away from dollar-based trade into yuan-
based trading with  China  and rupee-based trading with India.
Likewise with the South Africans with whom we trade a lot,”
Bheenick said. “We want to have direct trading, trying to
bypass the dollar channel and the euro channel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  