-- 
Australian Stocks Rebound as Asian Intervention Sparks Hope of Recovery

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-08-09T06:21:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/australian-stocks-lose-half-of-gains-since-2009-entering-a-bear-market.html
Australian stocks rose, reversing an
earlier slide of as much as 5.5 percent, as governments in
Taiwan and  South Korea  acted to stem stock declines, and amid
speculation that the U.S. Federal Reserve will announce measures
to support markets.  Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) , the world’s biggest surfwear
maker that gets almost half its sales from the Americas, gained
1.2 percent, reversing a plunge of as much as 7.5 percent.  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  rose 1.2 percent as the world’s No. 1 mining
company erased a loss of as much 4.9 percent the followed a
decline in commodity prices.  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , the
country’s biggest business lender, gained 2.9 percent after
saying third-quarter profit rose 27 percent.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index, which last week had its
steepest weekly retreat since 2008, rose 1.2 percent to 4,034.80
at the 4:10 p.m. close of trading in Sydney. It earlier dropped
as much as 5.5 percent to 3,765.90.  “You’ve needed a circuit breaker after the freefall we’ve
experienced over the last few days, and it’s likely to come in
the form of government intervention,” said Jason Teh, who helps
manage about $3 billion at Investors Mutual Ltd. in Sydney. “At
the end of the day, stocks are companies, and companies are
worth something, and it gets to a level where governments
intervene and stocks begin to rally.”  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services yesterday lowered credit
ratings on debt issued by U.S.-backed mortgage lenders including
 Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, citing its own Aug. 5 downgrade of
the federal government’s AAA status.  Bear Market  The S&P/ASX 200 dropped 2.9 percent to 3,986.10 yesterday,
completing a 20 percent retreat from an 18-month high in April
2010 to enter a bear market. The measure has wiped out more than
half the gains from the beginning of the rally in March 2009
after the country’s currency soared to an all-time high against
the dollar, threatening to cut exporter profits.  “The risk of a global recession makes the earnings of
Australian companies vulnerable,” said Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-
based strategist for AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages
almost $100 billion. “If the global risks intensify, it doesn’t
matter whether the market looks cheap.”  Stocks around the world have plunged in the past two weeks
on concern the U.S., the world’s largest economy, may enter a
recession and as  Europe ’s debt crisis intensified.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 