-- 
AutoNation Pay Freeze as Company Excels Shows No Inflation: Cars

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-08-08T20:14:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/autonation-pay-freeze-as-company-excels-shows-no-inflation-cars.html
Mike Jackson , chief executive officer
of  AutoNation Inc. (AN) , says the largest U.S. auto dealer is
stronger than ever. What’s not strong in his view is the U.S.
economy, and that’s why he’s telling workers they won’t see
higher paychecks anytime soon.  “We have a fragile recovery that’s under way, which means
if you introduce anything into it that’s disruptive, it’s going
to knock it off its pace,” Jackson, 62, said in an Aug. 3
interview, hours before reprising his commentary for local
Federal Reserve economists.  Jackson has seen all manner of recoveries in his 37 years
in the industry, and this one is languishing. Light-vehicle
sales rose less than 1 percent in July, researcher Autodata
Corp. said last week, spurring JPMorgan Chase & Co. to reduce
estimates for 2011 and 2012 by a combined 700,000 vehicle sales.  It’s telling of the bind the  U.S. economy  is in that
AutoNation, which earned an investment-grade rating from
 Standard & Poor’s  last month, isn’t ready to reinstate pay
raises or 401(k) matches that were stopped as emergency measures
during the slide. Companies and consumers are each waiting for
the other to start spending, keeping growth at a stall speed.  “You’re seeing wage gains, you’re seeing job growth, but
it’s all very muted simply because there’s not a lot of demand
out there,” said John Canally, an economist and investment
strategist at Boston-based LPL Financial Corp., which oversees
$340.8 billion in assets. “Businesses can hire if there’s more
demand, but there can’t be more demand unless businesses hire.”  ‘Ugly Again’  The CEO’s comments came during a session with employees at
the Atlanta Buckhead Marriott. At the end, responding to a
worker who asked about pay, Jackson said that with new-car
demand still at a “depression level,” the company has to stay
prepared in case things “get ugly again.”  Jackson, who started his auto career as a technician for
Mercedes-Benz USA, was named to the board of the Federal Reserve
Bank of Atlanta’s Miami branch in January. He told the workers
he brings “a dose of the real world” to Fed meetings.  “Sometimes the data lags or doesn’t really tell you the
truth,” Jackson said.  Concern that the economy may relapse has done to AutoNation
and other car-dealing chains what the March 11 earthquake in
 Japan  couldn’t: push down the company’s shares. They closed at a
record $39.97 on July 26, and have dropped 18 percent to $32.71
at 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange trading. Peers  Penske
Automotive Group Inc. (PAG)  and  Group 1 Automotive Inc. (GPI)  also have
since declined since reaching early-2007 levels last month.  Japan Automakers  Japanese automakers, which lost output of more than 2.3
million vehicles to the March 11 earthquake and tsunami, built
more than half of the new vehicles sold last year by AutoNation.  The retailer, which is more than 72 percent held by
billionaires  Edward Lampert  and  Bill Gates  and their affiliated
funds, raised prices, built inventory of used cars and
emphasized parts and services to counter lower supply of  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co. cars and trucks.  “A decline in new-vehicle sales effectively gives you, as
a dealer, the opportunity to generate more parts-and-service
revenue because consumers aren’t purchasing new vehicles,”
Brian Sponheimer, an analyst with Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New
York, said in a phone interview. “Dealer groups are built to
withstand moves in  consumer spending  because of this.”  AutoNation’s second-quarter net income climbed 52 percent
to $71.9 million from $47.2 million a year earlier, the company
said July 27. Profit excluding some items was a record 49 cents
a share, topping the 45 cent average of 11 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Atlanta Region  The post-Japan operating plan was followed in Atlanta,
where Jackson and Chief Operating Officer Michael Maroone last
week reached the halfway point of a summer tour of AutoNation’s
outlets from  Seattle  to South Florida.  Atlanta-region sales during the quarter plunged 24 percent,
compared with a 4 percent drop in new-vehicle deliveries for the
entire company. Store profit still improved 23 percent in the
three months, exceeding the parent’s 18 percent gain as used
sales and profit per new vehicle sold increased.  Jeff Sawyer, general manager of  Georgia ’s largest Toyota
dealership, said inventory on his lot slipped to as few as 250
new vehicles from the usual stock of as much as 600.  “It’s starting to come back in the other direction,” said
Sawyer, an AutoNation dealer whose  Team Toyota Mall of Georgia 
is in Buford, about 35 miles northeast of Atlanta.  Better-selling models such as the Prius hybrid have less
than a month’s worth of supply, while Tundra pickup stocks have
climbed to 136 days, Sawyer said last week. That balance will
improve by September or October, he said.  Inventories Improving  Improved inventories will help the seasonally adjusted
annual rate for U.S. light-vehicle sales get back to 13 million
in the late months of 2011, AutoNation projects. That will help
the industry reach about 12.6 million deliveries this year,
according to the company, up from 11.6 million in 2010.  “I still believe we’re going to have a nice solid close to
the year, but August will be a little bit difficult and probably
early September as we refill inventories,” Maroone, the COO,
said in an interview. “As soon as those are full, you’ll see a
different posture on incentives and marketing” by automakers.  AutoNation’s full-year sales forecast, which was lowered
after the Japan tsunami, is lower than the projections given by
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and Ford Motor Co., the two largest U.S.
automakers. They say there could be 13 million new vehicles sold
this year, including medium- and heavy-duty trucks.  “What the trajectory is going into 2012 it’s still too
early to say, but I still think it will be upward for our
industry,” Jackson said in an interview.  Jackson said he hopes the Fed won’t need to arrange a third
round of quantitative easing, known as QE3, to help stimulate
the economy and avoid a second phase of recession.  “You can’t take it off the table, but I hope it doesn’t
come to it,” he said. “They should really only go to it if
clearly there’s going to be a double dip. How many more bullets
are there? It’s the limits of what can be done -- we’re
approaching that line.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  