-- 
Taxpayers Stuck With Unsold Ferries in Default

-- B y   P u n e e t   K o l l i p a r a
-- 
2011-08-08T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/taxpayers-stuck-with-unsold-ferries-in-loan-default.html
Two passenger ferries sit at a dock
in Norfolk,  Virginia , waiting for someone to take them off the
government’s hands.  The U.S. Maritime Administration  has taken bids  for them
in an attempt to recover some of the $138 million in taxpayer
money paid to cover defaults on loans it guaranteed for the
owners, Hawaii Superferry Inc. The company sought  bankruptcy
protection  and defaulted in 2009.  The unwanted ferries are reminders of the defaults and
oversight problems reported as recently as December in the so-
called Title XI program as vessel owners have won $798 million
in new loan guarantees this year, the most since 2001. As it
considers two applications for an additional $712 million in
guarantees, the maritime agency is trying to recover what it can
on $311 million paid out to cover six defaults since 2008.  The program has survived elimination attempts because
supporters in Congress “logroll” to keep funding it, said
Chris Edwards, director of tax policy studies at the  Cato
Institute . “Some of these ships are built in their districts,
and they’ll fight to the death for it,” Edwards said in an
interview. His Washington-based group advocates reducing
government spending and lower taxes.  Title XI has the funding to expand its loan balance to $4
billion, according to government data. Its loan balance was more
than $2 billion in fiscal 2010, according to the agency.  ‘Pork-Barrel Spending’  The program’s bipartisan supporters, such as former Senator
Trent Lott, a  Mississippi  Republican, and Democratic Senator
Daniel Inouye of Hawaii, credit Title XI with creating jobs and
supporting national defense and the U.S. commercial fleet. The
U.S. fleet shrank from 17 percent of the world’s oceangoing
merchant ships in 1960 to less than 1 percent in 2008, according
to the  Bureau of Transportation Statistics .  Five guarantees approved since President  Barack Obama  took
office in 2009 will create 8,000 jobs, maritime agency
Administrator David Matsuda said in an e-mail.  Senator  John McCain , an Arizona Republican, has dubbed the
program “an egregious example of pork-barrel spending” that
has wasted billions of taxpayer dollars. McCain’s office didn’t
return two phone calls and two e-mails seeking comment.  “There’s been a number of instances in the past where
decisions were made that, well, maybe they weren’t the best in
terms of the risk that was before the administration,” Matsuda
said at a House hearing March 1.  Level Playing Field  The government covers 87.5 percent of the amount of the
loans it guarantees, and pays only after a default.  U.S. companies get lower  interest rates  with Title XI
backing, “leveling the playing field” with lower-cost foreign
competitors, said Lisa Barnes, project manager for Eastern
Shipbuilding Group in Panama City,  Florida . Eastern Shipbuilding
plans to add 300 workers to build five platform-supply vessels
for Brazil-based Boldini A.S., which got a $241 million
guarantee March 8.  Representative Steve Southerland, a Florida Republican
elected last November with the support of the  Tea Party , which
argues for reducing  government spending , pressed Matsuda at a
March 1 hearing to approve Boldini’s application before a March
10 deadline. Eastern Shipbuilding is in Southerland’s district.  “Be sensitive that the process could very well be the
reason that these jobs go elsewhere in the world, OK?”
Southerland said. “So there is a sense of urgency here.”  Matt McCullough, Southerland’s spokesman, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  Role of Politics  Politics drove decisions to give guarantees to some
companies that eventually defaulted, Clayton Cook, the maritime
agency’s general counsel from 1970 through 1973, said in an
interview.  He cited American Classic Voyages Co., chaired by
billionaire real-estate investor  Sam Zell , which received a $1.1
billion guarantee for two  cruise ships  under the banner of
Project America. Five subsidiaries of the company accounted for
$330 million of the $490 million that defaults cost the
government from 1993 through 2002.  Inouye sponsored a provision in a defense bill called the
U.S. Flag Cruise Ship Pilot Project, he said at a hearing in
1999. The project gave American Classic Voyages exclusive rights
to operate cruise ships in  Hawaii , the company said in a
Securities and Exchange Commission filing in 2000. The ships
were to be built at Ingalls Shipbuilding in Pascagoula,
Mississippi, Lott’s hometown. Lott declined to be interviewed.  American Classic Voyages filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in
October 2001. The default cost taxpayers $187 million, according
to the maritime agency.  Hawaii Connections  “The project, while proceeding with considerable
difficulty, including delays and increased costs in
construction, ultimately became a victim, like many other
industries, of the September 11 attack on our nation,” Inouye
said in a floor speech in 2003.  Inouye didn’t respond to a question about the default,
saying in an e-mail that “loan-guarantee programs are one of
the many ways that government can partner with the private
sector to create jobs and expand the economy.”  Hawaii Superferry, chaired by former Navy Secretary John Lehman, spent up to $20,000 a year lobbying Congress, the
maritime agency, the Environmental Protection Agency and other
agencies on Title XI and “vessel financing issues” between
2004 and 2006, according to federal lobbying disclosures. The
loan guarantees helped the firm finance the ferry purchases from
shipbuilder Austal USA, based in Mobile,  Alabama .  The Superferry’s default occurred because a Hawaii court
ruled the state shouldn’t have let the company skip an
environmental impact study, said William Schubert, maritime
administrator from December 2001 to February 2005. “The people
of Hawaii wanted the service, and when it went to the state
 Supreme Court  it pretty much put an end to the program,”
Schubert said in a phone interview.  Economic Benefits  Title XI guarantees of sound loans “support economic
activity at virtually no cash cost to the taxpayer, at a time
when we really need that,” Michael Roberts, general counsel at
Jacksonville, Florida-based  Crowley Maritime Corp. (CWLM) , said in an
interview. Crowley subsidiary Vessel Management Services Inc.
has received $845 million in backing since 1998, including a
$346 million guarantee in July.  Houston-based Rowan Cos., which has received $878 million
in guarantees for building six oil rigs, will pay off its loans
on time because the guarantees “enabled us to grow and be very
successful,” said Bill Wells, chief financial officer.  “Not only did it support U.S. employment, but it also
enabled us to become a stronger company,” Wells said in an
interview.  ‘Unwarranted Corporate Subsidy’  President  Ronald Reagan  and Congress suspended the program
in 1987 after 129 defaults from fiscal 1985 through 1987.
President  George W. Bush ’s administration called Title XI an
“unwarranted corporate subsidy,” and the program stopped
issuing guarantees again in 2005. Both times the program was
revived.  A 2003 inspector general’s audit found the maritime agency
was ignoring financial weaknesses in some applications. The
agency in response set up an evaluation process that included
sending applications to a new department-wide credit council.  “These changes are working,” Matsuda, who took office in
July 2009, said by e-mail. No defaults have occurred on
guarantees approved during the Obama administration, he said.  In December, another inspector general’s report said the
agency hadn’t implemented recommendations made in 2003 to
improve borrower oversight. The agency is “well on our way to
implementing the recommendations outlined in the OIG report,”
Matsuda said.  The agency says it has recovered $142 million, or 18
percent, of the $801 million it has paid out on 15 defaults
since 1993.  Application Slowdown  Applications have declined since the mid-2000s because of a
sluggish economy and more rigorous screening, said Darrell
Conner, a former staffer at the now-defunct House Merchant
Marine and Fisheries Committee and now government relations
counselor at Washington-based K&L Gates LLP. The amount of new
guarantees this year is the highest since 2001 because the three
new applications approved are worth $100 million or more each.  The agency seeks to speed up the application process with
stricter deadlines from applicants, who are responsible for most
delays in processing time, Matsuda said by e-mail.  The credit council is an “unmitigated disaster” because
it doesn’t have maritime experts and has made applying slower
and more difficult, said John Graykowski, maritime agency deputy
and acting administrator from 1994 through 2000.  “I used to get the crap beat out of me because it took
nine months to 11 months to get a deal done, which drove me
nuts,” Graykowski said in an interview. “Now it’s two years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Puneet Kollipara in Washington at 
 pkollipara@bloomberg.net 
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn in Washington at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  