-- 
Taylor Wimpey Shares Are Undervalued, May Double, Phoenix Says

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-08-08T09:02:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/taylor-wimpey-shares-are-undervalued-may-double-phoenix-says.html
Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/) , Britain’s second-
largest homebuilder by sales volume, is undervalued and the
company’s shares may double as margins improve and a supply
shortage spurs demand for housing, Phoenix Asset Management
Partners Ltd. said.  Taylor Wimpey’s earnings will rise as the London-based
company builds on cheap land it acquired during the market’s
slump, said Gary Channon, Phoenix’s 43-year-old chief investment
officer. Phoenix owns 5 percent of  Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV) , the
largest U.K. homebuilder. It doesn’t have shares of any other
companies in the industry.  “It’s too undervalued for what it is,” Channon said in a
telephone interview. “Most of the industries that collapsed in
the credit crunch have regained some proportion of their form
and housing construction hasn’t.”  U.K. land prices have fallen by as much as 52 percent from
their 2007 peak, according to real-estate broker  Savills Plc. (SVS) 
That’s prompted homebuilders such as Taylor Wimpey and Barratt
to buy cheaper plots and build single-family homes in a bid to
boost profit margins.  Phoenix Asset Management , based in London, has owned more
than 3 percent of Barratt since May 2008. It bought shares in
the company for 42 pence to 72 pence before a rights offer in
July 2008, when the company paid 27 pence a share to double its
stake, Channon said. The stock closed at 82.2 pence on Aug. 5.  Anjali Unnikrishnan, a spokeswoman for Taylor Wimpey,
declined to comment on questions sent to her by e-mail.  Shares Drop  Taylor Wimpey shares are worth as much as 65 pence each,
Channon said. They were down 2.4 percent at 32 pence as of 9:17
a.m. in  London , giving the company a market value of 1.05
billion pounds.  “The right price is a small premium to book, they should
be 60 to 65,” said Channon, who traded derivatives at banks
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  before helping to create
Phoenix in 1998.  Taylor Wimpey shares have risen 1.9 percent this year,
while Barratt has fallen 6.9 percent. The Bloomberg EMEA Home
Builders Index of eight stocks has risen 2.5 percent during that
time.  The U.K. faces a housing shortage of about 1 million homes
by 2015, with London worst affected, as construction fails to
keep pace with the growing population in southern areas of the
U.K. capital, according to Savills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 