-- 
Bank of America Leads Surge in Credit Swaps on Downgrade Concern

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-08-08T21:59:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/bank-of-america-goldman-sachs-lead-jump-in-default-swaps-on-u-s-lenders.html
The cost to protect against a default
by U.S. banks soared by the most since the month  Lehman Brothers 
Holdings Inc. failed after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the AAA rating
on the government’s debt.  Credit-default swaps on  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the nation’s
biggest bank by assets, rose by the most on record and reached
the highest since May 2009, while contracts tied to Morgan
Stanley debt increased the most since September 2008. Swaps on
insurers Hartford Financial Services Group Inc., MetLife Inc.
and Prudential Financial Inc. rose, and a benchmark gauge of
corporate credit risk climbed to the highest since July 2010.  The downgrade triggered investor concern that fallout could
impair the health of banks that have been recovering from the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression two years ago.
Investors including BlackRock’s  Peter Fisher  speculated S&P may
be forced to lower its ratings on banks, while  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
said in a regulatory filing that market reaction from the
government downgrade could have “a material adverse effect on
our business, financial condition and liquidity.”  “This has never happened so I don’t think anybody really
knows” the ultimate impact of the sovereign downgrade, said
David Withrow, head of taxable fixed income at Fifth Third Asset
Management. “It certainly could have an impact on the credit
rating of banks, which could impact counterparty risk. What the
level of impact is nobody really knows right now.”  ‘Support Assumptions’  S&P in a late-day statement said the U.S. downgrade doesn’t
have “an immediate or direct impact” on bank ratings. “None
of the banks we rate in the U.S. has an issuer credit rating
higher than the U.S. sovereign rating,” S&P said in the
statement. “The sovereign downgrade does not alter the
government support assumptions that we factor into our ratings
on four banks.”  BlackRock’s Fisher said in an interview earlier in the day
that the ratings company may be forced to lower bank grades 
after cutting the sovereign ranking that supports some of the
lenders.  “They’re going to have to follow through and start
knocking down ratings on all sorts of things or look like
they’re just mucking around in American politics,” said Fisher,
BlackRock’s global head of fixed-income. With banks including
Bank of America, Morgan Stanley and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  already rated
four levels lower than the U.S. government’s S&P rating of AA+,
“there’s some fudge room there,” he said.  Swaps Prices  Contracts on  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America, which rise as investor confidence deteriorates, soared
87.6 basis points to 295 basis points as of 4:30 p.m. in New
York, according to data provider CMA. That’s the highest since
May 2009.  Swaps on New York-based Morgan Stanley jumped 80.2 to
280.1, the highest since June 2010, CMA prices show.  Bank of America swaps also climbed as American
International Group Inc. sued the lender to recover losses on
mortgage-bond investments.  Morgan Stanley said the U.S. downgrade could impact its
credit ratings and require it to post more collateral on some
loans, the New York-based company said today in a filing with
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  “Because of the unprecedented nature of negative credit
rating actions with respect to U.S. government obligations, the
ultimate impacts on global markets and our business, financial
condition and liquidity are unpredictable and may not be
immediately apparent,” the firm wrote.  Seize Up  The average credit swap price on the six biggest U.S. banks
-- Bank of America,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
Citigroup,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley -- jumped
51.5 basis points to 210.9 basis points. That’s the largest gain
since September 2008 when Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy
and caused credit markets to seize up.  Swaps on Goldman Sachs jumped 44 to 210, CMA prices show.
JPMorgan contracts climbed 25 to 135, while those on Wells Fargo
rose 25 to 135, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group
Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. Contracts on Citigroup added 47.8 to a 210,
CMA prices show.  The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Contracts on the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index, tied to the debt of 125 companies, jumped 12.5 basis
points to 115.5 basis points as of 5:47 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Markit Group Ltd.  “We haven’t seen this kind of volatility since 2008,”
said Rich Gordon, a fixed-income market strategist at Wells
Fargo.  Swaps on Hartford Financial, the insurer that repaid a $3.4
billion bailout last year, rose 34.3 to 249.2, CMA prices show.
Contracts on MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, rose 44.3
to 229.3, while contracts on Prudential, the second-biggest life
insurer, climbed 28.3 to 189.4.  Swaps on GE Capital Corp., a finance unit of General
Electric Co., rose 50.7 basis points to 230.5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  