-- 
Bank Stocks Plunge Most Since 2009

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-08-08T21:29:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/bank-stocks-tumble-to-biggest-plunge-since-2009-led-by-bofa-citigroup.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Citigroup
Inc. led U.S. lenders to their steepest drop in more than two
years as the government’s loss of its AAA credit rating rippled
through financial markets.  Bank of America, the nation’s largest bank by assets,
plunged 20 percent and Citigroup slid 16 percent, leading the
 KBW Bank Index (BKX)  down 11 percent. It was the worst showing for the
24-company benchmark since April 20, 2009, when Bank of America
told investors it was putting aside more money to cover a
growing pool of uncollectible loans.  Those costs have continued to erode investor confidence
ever since for the lender and some of its biggest rivals. More
pressure came last week after S&P downgraded the credit of the
U.S. government, which guarantees some of their deposits and
debt, to AA+. Bank of America’s shares sold for only a third of
their book value today, and Citigroup’s price-to-book ratio fell
to less than 50 percent.  “Investors are dumping financials because there’s so much
confusion about what could be on their books,”  Dave Lutz , head
of ETF trading and strategy at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
Baltimore, said in an interview. “You’ve got a perfect storm
against Bank of America.”  Bank of America slid $1.66 to $6.51 as of 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. It was the biggest drop
since April 2009, and left the stock shorn of half its value
since the start of 2011. Citigroup fell $5.49 to $27.95, down 41
percent for this year, and sold for as little as $26.25, its
largest decline since February 2009, when investors were
speculating that lenders might be nationalized.  Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps on  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America soared to the highest since May 2009, as prices
on contracts for U.S. banks including Morgan Stanley and
Citigroup rose, according to data provider CMA. Bank of
America’s contracts gained 88 basis points to 295 basis points
as of 4:30 p.m.  The U.S. credit downgrade led to cuts in ratings at
companies sponsored or backed by taxpayers, including  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac , the two mortgage finance firms seized by the
government in 2008 to prevent their collapse. Both were lowered
to AA+ because of their “direct reliance on the U.S.
government,” the ratings firm said.  Stocks React  Among other U.S. lenders, New York-based JPMorgan Chase &
Co. fell 9.4 percent, San Francisco-based Wells Fargo & Co. and
U.S. Bancorp declined about 9 percent. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
declined 6 percent and Morgan Stanley dropped 14 percent.
Capital One Financial Corp., Regions Financial Corp. and
SunTrust Banks Inc. all lost more than 12 percent.  Before trading began, American International Group Inc.
disclosed plans to sue Bank of America over faulty mortgages and
analysts speculated the bank may need to raise capital.  AIG, the insurer rescued by U.S. bailouts during the 2008
financial crisis, contends Bank of America caused more than $10
billion in losses at the company, which had specialized in
investments and insurance tied to mortgage bonds. Bank of
America, which repaid its own government bailout in 2009,
rejected the assertions of New York-based AIG.  The suit is the latest legal pressure faced by Brian
Moynihan, 51, who took over as chief executive officer at the
bank last year. Last month, investors including BlackRock Inc.
sued Bank of America after opting out of a $624 million
settlement tied to loans made by Countrywide Financial Corp.,
which the bank bought in 2008. Plaintiffs said the subprime
lender misled shareholders about its finances and lending
practices.  Economic Outlook  Bank of America shares have been dogged by concerns that
mortgage expenses and a stagnating U.S. economy will crimp
profit and force it to bolster capital by selling new shares.
Moynihan has repeatedly said this year that the firm won’t need
to issue common stock.  “The bias that exists, and that is gaining credibility, is
that a double dip is ahead of us,” said Charles Peabody, an
analyst at Portales Partners LLC. “If that’s the case, then
something like Bank of America is going to have to raise
substantial equity externally.” Peabody rates Bank of America a
“buy,” and said he doesn’t think the firm will raise capital.  Mike Mayo, the Credit Agricole Securities USA analyst who
said July 20 he didn’t foresee the need to raise funds,
downgraded the stock today to “underperform” from
“outperform” and said investors “can no longer rule out a
capital raise.”  Keith Horowitz  at Citigroup reiterated his buy
recommendation, saying there’s “significant value here” and
that Bank of America doesn’t need to raise capital.  Capital Debate  “Even as we have been building our reserves, we have
improved our capital levels and our liquidity,” the bank said
in a memo distributed to employees and dated Aug. 7. “Our
tangible common equity ratio -- the most basic measure of
capital strength -- has risen to 5.87 percent on June 30, 2011,
from 5.05 percent on December 31, 2009, higher than JPMorgan
Chase.”  As for the AIG case, the bank rejects the insurer’s
“assertions and allegations,” said Larry DiRita, a spokesman
for the lender, the biggest in the U.S. by assets.  “AIG recklessly chased high yields and profits throughout
the mortgage and structured finance markets,” DiRita said. “It
is the very definition of an informed, seasoned investor, with
losses solely attributable to its own excesses and errors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  