-- 
Bank of Kigali IPO Attracts Bids for Three Times Number of Shares Offered

-- B y   H e a t h e r   M u r d o c k
-- 
2011-08-08T16:51:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/bank-of-kigali-ipo-attracts-bids-for-three-times-number-of-shares-offered.html
Bank of Kigali Ltd.,  Rwanda ’s biggest
lender by assets, received offers for more than three times the
amount of shares on sale in its initial public offering, Finance
Minister John Rwangombwa said.  “We had applicants from all over the country and all over
the region,” Rwangombwa told reporters today in Kigali, the
capital. “It shows the appetite is far bigger than what we are
able to offer to the market.”  Bank of Kigali said in June it would sell 300 million
shares at 125 Rwanda francs each to raise 37.5 billion francs
($63 million). The stock will be listed on the Rwanda Stock
Exchange on Aug. 29.  The initial public offering is Rwanda’s second, after
Heineken NV’s Rwandan unit, Brassieries et Limonaderies du
Rwanda SA, became the first company in the East African country
to hold an IPO before its listing on the Rwandan Stock Exchange.  Rwanda’s government plans to sell shares in six companies
over the next three years as part of a plan to attract foreign
investors to the East African country, the Capital Market
Advisory Council said in April. Among the companies preparing to
list are MTN Rwanda, a unit of  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) ,  Africa ’s biggest
mobile-phone company; Commercial Bank of Rwanda; Sonarwa
Insurance and other businesses partly owned by the government.  The funds raised by Bank of Kigali will be used to expand
branches, improve electronic-banking technology and to help fund
government programs, Managing Director James Gatera said today.  “This will put us in a position to be able to lend to big
projects that are coming up,” he said, without elaborating.  Rwanda doubled the size of its economy in the nine years to
2010 as it recovers from a 1994 genocide in which 800,000 mainly
ethnic Tutsis died.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Murdock in Kigali via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 