-- 
Bank of America Retreats on AIG Lawsuit, Speculation Over Capital Increase

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-08-08T17:36:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/bank-of-america-drops-after-aig-plans-lawsuit-tied-to-mortgages.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  dropped to its
lowest level since March 2009 in New York trading after American
International Group Inc. disclosed plans to sue over faulty
mortgages and analysts speculated about a capital raise.  The bank slid $1.28, or 16 percent, to $6.89 as of 1:26
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, after falling
as much as 18 percent during the session. It was the biggest
drop since April 2009, and left the stock shorn of almost half
its value since the start of this year.  “Investors are dumping financials because there’s so much
confusion about what could be on their books,”  Dave Lutz , head
of ETF trading and strategy at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
Baltimore, said in an interview. “You’ve got a perfect storm
against Bank of America.”  AIG, the insurer rescued by U.S. bailouts during the 2008
financial crisis, contends Bank of America caused more than $10
billion in losses to AIG, which had specialized in investments
and insurance tied to mortgage bonds. Bank of America, which
repaid its own government bailout in 2009, rejected the
assertions of New York-based AIG.  Credit-default swaps on  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America soared to the highest since May 2009. The cost
to protect against a default by U.S. banks jumped after  Standard
& Poor’s  cut the AAA rating on the government’s debt.  Pressure on Moynihan  The suit is the latest legal pressure faced by Moynihan,
51, who took over as CEO last year. Last month, former
Countrywide investors including BlackRock Inc. sued Bank of
America after opting out of a $624 million settlement.
Plaintiffs said the subprime lender misled shareholders about
its finances and lending practices.  Bank of America shares have been dogged by concerns that
mortgage expenses and a stagnating U.S. economy will crimp
profit and force it to bolster capital by selling new shares.
Moynihan has repeatedly said this year that the firm won’t need
to issue common stock.  “The bias that exists, and that is gaining credibility, is
that a double dip is ahead of us,” said Charles Peabody, an
analyst at Portales Partners LLC in  New York . “If that’s the
case, then something like Bank of America is going to have to
raise substantial equity externally.”  Capital Debate  Mike Mayo, the Credit Agricole Securities USA analyst who
said July 20 he didn’t foresee the need to raise funds,
downgraded the stock today to “underperform” from
“outperform” and said investors “can no longer rule out a
capital raise.”  Keith Horowitz  at Citigroup Inc. reiterated his
buy recommendation, saying there’s “significant value here”
and that Bank of America doesn’t need to raise capital.  “Even as we have been building our reserves, we have
improved our capital levels and our liquidity,” the bank said
in a memo distributed to employees and dated Aug. 7. “Our
tangible common equity ratio -- the most basic measure of
capital strength -- has risen to 5.87 percent on June 30, 2011,
from 5.05 percent on December 31, 2009, higher than JPMorgan
Chase.”  As for the AIG case, the bank rejects the insurer’s
“assertions and allegations,” said Larry DiRita, a spokesman
for the lender, the biggest in the U.S. by assets.  “AIG recklessly chased high yields and profits throughout
the mortgage and structured finance markets,” DiRita said. “It
is the very definition of an informed, seasoned investor, with
losses solely attributable to its own excesses and errors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  