-- 
Basci Says More Turkish Rate Cuts Possible If Europe Can’t End Debt Crisis

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-08-08T10:34:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/basci-says-more-turkish-rate-cuts-possible-if-europe-can-t-end-debt-crisis.html
Turkish central bank Governor Erdem Basci said he may extend a record-breaking series of cuts to the
benchmark  interest rate , depending on how European leaders
manage the sovereign debt crisis.  A quick and successful resolution to the problems in Europe
might spark inflows to  Turkey , strengthening the lira and
demanding a cut to prevent overvaluation, Basci said today in
Ankara in an interview with CNBC-e television. A delay by the
European leaders may spark a recession, possibly requiring lower
rates to shield the Turkish economy, he said.  Basci cut the benchmark one-week repo rate to 5.75 percent
from 6.25 percent at an emergency meeting on Aug. 4, saying that
European turmoil risked driving Turkey into a recession. The
meeting was called in response to rising borrowing costs in some
European countries, and Turkish monetary policy now hinges on
how  Europe  responds, Basci said. The  European Central Bank 
started buying Italian and Spanish assets today in an attempt
yet to tame the sovereign debt crisis.  “The rate-cut option is open to us and we’ll evaluate it
as conditions evolve,” Basci said. “We’re in a position where
we could use the rates instrument in either direction.”  Yields on two-year lira-denominated bonds fell after his
comments and were six basis points lower at 8.46 percent at
12:43 p.m. in Istanbul.  Europe doesn’t have the experience of debt sustainability
crises that emerging-market economies such as Turkey have
accumulated over the years and its response has been slow in
some areas, Basci said.  Lowest Since 2002  The Turkish rate cut last week extended reductions made in
December and January and took the benchmark to its lowest since
the country began inflation targeting in 2002.  The central bank is also holding required reserves
deposited by banks and could use them in response to
developments in Europe, Basci said. A successful resolution to
the problems in  Greece ,  Spain  and  Italy  might require an
increase to lira reserve requirements, while a global slowdown
may oblige the bank to release some, he said.  The bank’s efforts to restrict domestic lending have been
successful and credit growth is likely to slow to 6 percent or 7
percent in the second half of this year, Basci said.  His comments came after industrial production data showed
output falling on a monthly basis for the fifth consecutive
month. Basci said a Turkish recession was unlikely because a
fall of about 11 percent in the value of the lira this year had
made Turkish exports more competitive and given exporters a
chance to expand their market share.  The current-account deficit is becoming less of a problem
since the lira declined and global commodity prices fell, Basci
said, forecasting a gap in the second half of the year of
between $25 billion and $27.5 billion. The current-account
deficit for the full year will be about 9 percent of gross
domestic product, he said. The inflationary impact of the weaker
lira will prove limited and the rate will end this year closer
to the bank’s 5.5 percent target than the bank’s July 28
forecast of 6.9 percent, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 