-- 
Buffett’s Unsolicited Reinsurer Bid Departs From ‘Normal, Quiet Marriage’

-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 
2011-08-08T13:21:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/berkshire-makes-unsolicited-3-25-billion-bid-for-reinsurer-transatlantic.html
Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  bid $3.25 billion in an unsolicited offer for  Transatlantic
Holdings Inc. (TRH) , seeking to break up a deal the target company had
reached with another insurer.  Ajit Jain, Buffett’s reinsurance lieutenant, gave New York-
based Transatlantic until today’s close of business to respond.
Transatlantic dropped 10 of 11 trading days through Aug. 5.  The offer diverges from Buffett’s usual strategy of
avoiding competitive bidding and favoring deals where he has
approval of the target company’s management, said  Michael Yoshikami , an investment strategist at YCMNet Advisors, a
Berkshire investor. Transatlantic struck a deal in June to merge
with Allied World Assurance Company Holdings AG and has shunned
a July bid from Bermuda-based Validus Holdings Ltd.  “It certainly is different than the normal, quiet marriage
they have,” Yoshikami said of Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire’s
bid. “It is not their typical style in terms of acquisitions.”  Jain offered $52 for each of Transatlantic’s 62.5 million
outstanding shares as of June 30, Transatlantic said in a
statement yesterday. Allied’s bid to exchange 0.88 of a share
for each Transatlantic share is valued at about $2.8 billion,
based on Allied’s Aug. 5 closing price of $50.25. Validus’s
hostile stock-and-cash offer fell to about $2.9 billion, from an
original value of $3.5 billion, after equity markets plunged.  Transatlantic said its board will “carefully consider and
evaluate” the Berkshire offer.  ‘Out of the Norm’  Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman and chief executive officer,
has sought to distinguish his firm from potential rivals in the
buyout market by promising to keep managers in place, shunning
hostile bids and vowing not to sell companies he takes over. The
offer is the first publicly disclosed unsolicited bid by
Berkshire since Bloomberg began tracking takeover data more than
a decade ago.  “We will not engage in unfriendly takeovers,” Berkshire
said in its most recent  annual report . “We don’t participate in
auctions.”  Jain’s approach to Transatlantic is “sort of out of the
norm,” said  Meyer Shields , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.
Berkshire generates “so much cash that they have to go beyond
their historical patterns.” Buffett, 80, didn’t return a
message seeking comment.  Berkshire had $47.9 billion in cash as of June 30, the
company said last week. Buffett doesn’t buy back shares or pay a
dividend and has been looking for acquisitions.  Validus and Allied said Berkshire’s offer denies
Transatlantic shareholders the chance to benefit from gains at
the business after a merger.  ‘Right to Choose’  “Transatlantic stockholders deserve the right to choose
for themselves between an offer that provides greater potential
future value or a fixed price today,” Validus Chief Executive
Officer Ed Noonan said yesterday in a statement. Validus has
offered 1.56 shares and $8 in cash for each Transatlantic share.  Allied yesterday affirmed its commitment to its deal and
called Berkshire’s bid “at best, opportunistic.” The Zug,
Switzerland-based insurer has said its business mix makes it the
best fit for Transatlantic.  Validus focuses on property reinsurance, including coverage
against catastrophes. Transatlantic provides medical-malpractice
protection and guards corporate officers against lawsuits
through so-called directors-and-officers coverage. Allied offers
professional-liability coverage.  Berkshire is the largest U.S.-based seller of reinsurance,
which is coverage of policies written by primary carriers.
Buffett’s company provides catastrophe protection and assumes
risks being sold by rivals.  ‘Just Capital’  Reinsurance acquirers may be more motivated by the ability
to bolster their finances than to improve their business mix,
said Tom Baker, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania
Law School, who specializes in insurance, in an interview before
Berkshire’s offer.  “To some degree at least, reinsurance is just capital,”
he said. “They’re competing with other suppliers of capital.”  Allied shares have dropped about 13 percent through Aug. 5
since the last trading day before its deal was announced.
Validus fell 20 percent since it announced its bid on July 12.  Transatlantic closed at $44.01 the last day before the
Allied agreement. Transatlantic’s book value, a measure of
assets minus liabilities, is about $67.76 per share.  “ Warren Buffett  does not engage in competitive bidding,
but it seems even he finds a top-10 global reinsurance franchise
for 77 percent of book value too compelling to pass up in a
dislocated stock market,” said Gregory Locraft, an analyst at
Morgan Stanley, in a note to investors today. “Berkshire
uncharacteristically entered the fray.”  Reinsurance Rivals  Buffett competed against Validus in 2009 when IPC Holdings
Ltd. auctioned itself, two people familiar with the matter said
then. Validus won with a stock-and-cash offer valued at about
$1.7 billion while Berkshire offered cash, the people said.  Validus has said it got financial advice on its
Transatlantic offer from Greenhill & Co. and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and legal counsel from Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom
LLP.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Moelis & Co. are financial
advisers to Transatlantic and Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP is
acting as legal counsel.  Deutsche Bank AG acted as financial adviser to Allied, and
Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP and  Baker & McKenzie  provided U.S.
and Swiss legal counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 Bsutherland5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 Dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 