-- 
Berkshire Among U.S. Insurers That May Be Downgraded in S&P Ratings Review

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e ,   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-08-08T21:09:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/berkshire-among-u-s-insurers-that-may-be-downgraded-in-s-p-ratings-review.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  is among insurance companies that may be downgraded by
 Standard & Poor’s  after the rating firm stripped the U.S.
government of its AAA credit grade.  S&P identified 10 carriers whose financial strength may
decline because their creditworthiness is tied to the ability of
the U.S. to pay its debts, the rating firm said today. Omaha,
Nebraska-based Berkshire and four other insurers had their AA+
ratings placed on “negative outlook,” S&P said. New York Life
Insurance Co. and Knights of Columbus were among five firms
today stripped of AAA ratings and cut to AA+.  “It has nothing to do with us and everything to do with
 Washington ,” Patrick Korten, a spokesman for Knights of
Columbus said in a telephone interview. “It was something that
we knew was coming and it has nothing to do with the quality of
our management or our investment policy.”  Berkshire, which got about 40 percent of its profit from
insurance last year, keeps more than $40 billion of its cash
hoard in short-term Treasuries, Buffett told Fox Business
Network on Aug. 5. That day, S&P announced it was downgrading
the U.S. because of rising public debt and clashes among policy
makers about reining in the government deficit.  ‘Highly Concentrated’  “The U.S. sovereign credit rating constrains the long-term
ratings on these U.S. insurers because their businesses and
assets are highly concentrated in the U.S. and they have
significant holdings in U.S. Treasury and agency securities,”
S&P said in a statement. “Our view of these companies’
fundamental credit characteristics has not changed.”  Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman and chief executive officer,
said on Aug. 6 the U.S. deserved a “quadruple A” rating and
that S&P erred by cutting the government. He didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment left with an assistant today.  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , so-called agencies that are
backed by the government, were downgraded separately to AA+ from
AAA. New York Life had $11.1 billion of debt backed by the
Treasury and U.S. agencies and corporation as of Dec. 31.  “Despite the fact that Warren Buffett believes that the
U.S. should be “quadruple A” rated, the fact is that it’s not,”
said Bonnie Baha, who manages corporate credit for DoubleLine
Capital LP. “U.S. insurance companies could reasonably be
expected to hold a fair amount of U.S. government paper in their
portfolios. That being the case, the credit rating of
Berkshire’s investment portfolio has likely declined.”  Berkshire Hathaway slipped $6,300, or 5.9 percent, to
$101,000 in  New York  at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The company has declined about 16 percent
this year.  Credit-Default Swaps  The cost to protect Berkshire’s debt from default for five
years jumped to the highest level since October. Credit-default
swaps on the company’s debt added 29.8 basis points to 168.4
basis points at 4:30 p.m., according to data provider CMA.  Credit-default swaps, which typically fall as investor
confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates, pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Financial companies “are large holders of Treasuries and
agencies, so there is some correlation,” said Jonathan Hatcher,
a strategist who covers financial institutions at Jefferies
Group Inc. in New York. “But in general, corporate America is
different than the sovereign.”  The following companies were cut to AA+ from AAA:  
To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  