-- 
Berkshire Options Prices Rise to Record After S&P Says Downgrade Possible

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-08-08T18:05:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/berkshire-options-prices-rise-to-record-after-downgrade-of-u-s-.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  options
prices rose to a record and volume for bearish contracts was the
most since March after  Standard & Poor’s  said it may lower its
rating on billionaire investor  Warren Buffett ’s company.  Implied volatility, the key gauge of option prices, for at-
the-money contracts expiring in 30 days jumped to 40.73, the
highest since options on Berkshire’s B shares started trading
two years ago. Put volume increased to 15,224 contracts, almost
quadruple the four-week average and double the number of calls.
The shares headed for the lowest close since January 2010,
tumbling 2.7 percent to $69.30.  S&P said in a statement today that Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire may be downgraded as the ratings company reviews
insurers after stripping the U.S. government of its AAA rating
for the first time in history. Buffett lost his AAA rating from
S&P last year after agreeing to buy railroad Burlington Northern
 Santa Fe . He said Aug. 6 that the ratings firm erred in cutting
the U.S. grade and that the country should have a “quadruple
A” rating.  The cost to protect Berkshire’s debt from default for five
years jumped to the highest level since October. Credit-default
swaps on the company’s debt added 24.3 basis points to 162.9
basis points, according to data provider CMA. Credit-default
swaps, which typically fall as investor confidence improves and
rise as it deteriorates, pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  