-- 
Fed May Strengthen Stimulus Pledge on Renewed Recession Concern

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-08-09T12:50:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/bernanke-may-move-to-lift-confidence-on-concern-u-s-heading-for-recession.html
Federal Reserve officials may
strengthen their commitment to record monetary stimulus as soon
as today after a faltering economic recovery and a U.S. credit-
rating cut provoked a rout in global stocks.  By a 52 percent to 48 percent margin, respondents in a
Bloomberg News survey said the Fed would ease policy this year
through monetary tools or statement language. If the central
bank acts, 59 percent said it would communicate that the federal
funds rate, balance sheet or both will remain especially
stimulative for a longer period or more specific amount of time.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues are weighing
the use of more untested policy tools after two rounds of bond
buying totaling $2.3 trillion failed to spur sufficient economic
growth and reduce unemployment below 9 percent. The Federal Open
Market Committee holds its regular meeting today in Washington
following the worst day for U.S. stocks since December 2008.  “The odds of more dramatic action are higher,” said
 Vincent Reinhart , a former chief monetary policy strategist at
the Fed. “However, they might not want to be seen as responding
so directly to equity prices,” Reinhart said, adding that
policy makers may wait to signal a new round of bond purchases
until Bernanke gives a speech on Aug. 26 at a Fed conference at
 Jackson Hole , Wyoming. Reinhart is a resident scholar at the
 American Enterprise Institute  in Washington.  Stay at Record  The FOMC began its meeting around 8 a.m. in Washington and
plans to issue a statement at about 2:15 p.m.  Julia Coronado ,
chief economist for  North America  for BNP Paribas in New York,
said the central bank may say today the economic slowdown is
persisting longer than expected. Policy makers may also say the
Fed’s securities portfolio will remain at a record for an
“extended period” and replace shorter-term securities with
longer maturities to reduce rates on longer-term debt, she said.  The Fed reiterated in June that the overnight interbank
lending rate would be “exceptionally low” for an “extended
period” and said the policy of reinvesting maturing securities
to keep the balance sheet steady would be maintained, without
saying how long.  The “extended period” phrase means that the FOMC is at
least two or three meetings away, or “significantly longer,”
from taking any action, Bernanke said at a June press
conference.  Bernanke isn’t scheduled to hold a press briefing today,
unlike after the June 21-22 policy meeting. He holds news
conferences only after two-day meetings, when the Fed releases
updated economic forecasts. Forecasts are next scheduled for
release after the Nov. 1-2 gathering. On such days, the Fed
releases its announcement at around 12:30 p.m.  Debt Crisis  The drop in global stocks, further fueled by concerns over
Europe’s debt crisis, adds to pressure on the Fed, which is
confronting a slowing U.S. economy and unemployment stuck above
9 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index tumbled 6.7 percent
yesterday to 1,119.46 in  New York  trading, its biggest decline
since December 2008.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, which is chaired
by Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and also includes
Bernanke, convened by teleconference yesterday afternoon,
according to a government official who declined to be named
because he wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter.  Staying in Touch  The council discussed market developments in light of
increased volatility and risk aversion, the official said. Each
member gave an update on market functioning and details on
sectors they oversee. Council members, who also include the
chairmen of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the
 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation , agreed to stay in close
communication in the coming days, according to the official.  Today, U.S. stock index futures rose, European shares pared
losses and Treasuries fell.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures added 1.5 percent at
8:41 a.m. in New York, after losing as much as 3.2 percent. The
Stoxx  Europe  600 Index was down 0.4 percent after falling as
much as 5.1 percent. Treasuries, the benchmarks for the $34
trillion U.S. debt market that is more than twice the value of
American equities, fell. The 10-year note yield was up seven
basis points at 2.39 percent.  Asked which step the Fed would most likely take first, 59
percent of 51 respondents said the central bank would alter
language in the FOMC statement.  Deposits on Reserves  Another 22 percent said the Fed would increase the average
maturity of its securities holdings, 18 percent said it would
buy more assets and 12 percent see the Fed lowering the 0.25
percent interest rate paid on banks’ excess reserve deposits.
The total exceeds 100 percent because some economists said the
first step would involve two actions.  Economists were divided on whether the Fed would act now,
with 35 percent of 46 respondents saying the easing step would
come today and 39 percent predicting a move at the next meeting
Sept. 20. Fifteen percent saw a potential decision at the Nov.
1-2 meeting, and the remaining 11 percent said sometime after
the Dec. 13 session.  The Fed is likely to start a third round of asset
purchases, and “they certainly should do something right
away,” said  Kenneth Rogoff , a Harvard University economics
professor and former Fed researcher who attended graduate school
with Bernanke. It’s not clear if Bernanke would have the support
of the  Federal Open Market Committee , Rogoff said.  ‘More Decisively’  “It’s going to move more decisively” than in the first
two rounds, Rogoff said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. He recommended the Fed say it’s trying to create
“moderate inflation” and avoid repeating that officials are
trying to boost stocks.  The survey of 58 economists was conducted Aug. 5-8 by e-
mail and completed at around noon yesterday. Given the
opportunity to change answers after S&P cut the U.S.’s AAA
credit rating on Aug. 5, one respondent altered a forecast.  The Fed’s meeting comes two days after central bankers and
finance ministers from the Group of Seven nations pledged to
“take all necessary measures to support financial stability and
growth.” The officials said they would pump money into the
global economy and take other steps if warranted.  The G-7 statement followed a pledge by the  European Central
Bank  to “actively implement” its bond-purchase program. The
ECB started buying Italian and Spanish assets yesterday in its
riskiest attempt yet to tame the continent’s sovereign debt
crisis.  Third Round  While Fed officials may weigh whether to undertake a third
round of government bond purchases to spur growth, they probably
won’t announce a new program today, respondents said. In fact, a
majority of economists said in the Bloomberg survey that a third
round of quantitative easing won’t happen.  Forty-two percent of 52 respondents said more bond
purchases are very unlikely, and 29 percent see them as somewhat
unlikely. Of the 29 percent who see such a move as likely, 13
percent say the probability is more than 75 percent, and 15
percent say the chance is 50 percent to 75 percent. In
Bloomberg’s June survey, 7 percent of analysts said a third
round of bond buying, or QE3, was likely.  Such a step may backfire because it could panic investors
by signaling the economy is in worse shape than the Fed thought,
said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Point Loma Nazarene
University in  San Diego ,  California , and a board member of the
National Association for Business Economics.  Bond Purchases  The Fed in June completed a $600 billion Treasury bond-
purchase program aimed at reducing long-term borrowing costs on
everything from  car loans  to mortgages and boosting share
prices.  Even with the purchases, the economy grew in the first six
months of this year at the weakest pace since the recovery
started in 2009. After almost stalling at a 0.4 percent annual
pace in the first three months of this year, the economy
expanded at a 1.3 percent rate last quarter, the government
reported on July 29.  “I’m sure they’re facing a tough decision here about what
steps they should take,” said  Scott Brown , chief economist at
Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida .
“These things are kind of marginal at this point, but every
little bit would help.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in  Washington  at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  