-- 
Big Bank Exit From Reverse Mortgages Opens Market to Specialists

-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-08-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/big-bank-exit-from-reverse-mortgages-opens-market-to-specialists.html
Regulatory changes in the aftermath
of the housing meltdown have helped drive big banks and small
brokers out of the reverse-mortgage business over the past year,
leaving the field to a group of mid-sized loan originators who
specialize in the home loans for senior citizens.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , which accounted for about a quarter of
the reverse mortgage market, announced in June that it would no
longer offer the loans, citing regulatory uncertainty.  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  left the business in December. At the same time,
small brokerages have been shutting down because of new rules
limiting loan-officer commissions.  Those two trends have created opportunities for the middle
tier of reverse-mortgage companies, such as Atlanta-based
Generation Mortgage, Tulsa-based Urban Financial Group, and One
Reverse Mortgage, a division of Quicken Loans, analysts say.  “The industry does seem to be migrating towards
specialists, but more importantly, specialist firms that are
large enough to deal with the regulatory challenges,” said John Lunde, founder of Reverse Market Insight, a firm that tracks
data for the industry.  Those challenges include new limits on the percent of
equity that seniors can take out of their houses with a reverse
mortgage and pending rules that will require lenders to
determine borrowers’ creditworthiness.  Until now, the reverse market has been dominated by large
banks, even though the loans are a small part of their overall
business. Wells Fargo originated about a fifth of the 72,000 new
reverse mortgages nationwide in 2010, according to Reverse
Market Insight. The bank said that accounted for only 2.2
percent of its retail lending.  Senior Loans  Reverse mortgages, most of them insured by the  Federal
Housing Administration , are available to homeowners 62 or older
who have significant equity in their properties. The loans pay
out a home’s equity -- effectively allowing owners to supplement
their income by converting equity to cash -- and are repaid when
the borrower dies or sells the house. Though they don’t make
monthly loan repayments, borrowers are considered in default if
they don’t keep current on their property taxes and insurance.  Reverse mortgages have drawn a lot of criticism from
consumer groups, such as the National Consumer Law Center, which
have alleged that some unscrupulous lenders use the product to
take advantage of elderly homeowners.  Defaults Rise  Reverse mortgage defaults increased during the economic
downturn, as homes lost equity and homeowners had trouble
keeping current on taxes and insurance, leading the FHA to ask
servicers to foreclose on borrowers who had fallen delinquent.
In the meantime, the agency is drafting new rules that will
require banks to check borrowers’ ability to keep current on
those expenses before issuing a loan.  Combined with weak home prices, those trends appear to have
convinced larger banks that the loans aren’t worth the negative
publicity, analysts say.  Reverse mortgages have already brought controversy for
Wells Fargo. In a federal lawsuit filed in  San Francisco  last
week, the bank was accused of foreclosing on homes with reverse
mortgages after the owners died, without giving heirs a chance
to purchase the property at 95 percent of appraised value, as
FHA rules require.  In a June 16 statement, Wells Fargo said new federal rules
are part of the reason it decided not to stay in the business.
The bank specifically cited “restrictions associated with
reverse mortgages that make it difficult to determine seniors’
abilities to meet the obligations of homeownership and their
reverse mortgage.”  No Commissions  At the same time, Federal Reserve rules that went into
effect this spring have ended mortgage brokers’ practice of
paying loan officers on commission, making it harder for smaller
players to operate independently.  Overall, the number of reverse-mortgage originators dropped
by 27 percent between 2009 and 2010, Lunde’s firm found.  Peter Bell, president of the  National Reverse Mortgage
Lenders Association , said the product, first offered in 1989,
requires extra effort that may not be worth it for larger banks
still cleaning up the fallout from the housing meltdown.  “It’s a product that fits itself to a company that wants
to make a specific effort and focus,” Bell said.  The biggest player left in the market is insurer  MetLife,
Inc. (MET)  Meanwhile, reverse-mortgage specialty firms are poised to
fill the space left by the banks.  “The larger independents that are left, really their only
activity is reverse mortgages,” said Jeffrey Lewis, chairman of
the board of Generation Mortgage Company, the fifth largest
reverse-mortgage lender. Specialty firms have an advantage, he
said, because they are equipped to deliver a product that
requires a different kind of interaction with customers than
traditional loans.  ‘Slow Down’  “This is a much more personal process,” he said.  “It is
a complex moment in people’s lives, and these companies are able
to slow down and listen.”  At the same time, remaining reverse mortgage lenders are
facing challenges associated with losing both a network of
brokers and some of the largest participants in the market at a
time of economic uncertainty.  Big banks had helped raise the visibility of reverse
mortgages to consumers; now the industry will have to do more to
raise the profile of its product, Lewis said. Some of the mid-sized firms have been advertising on television with celebrity
spokesmen including actor Henry Winkler and politician Fred Thompson.  “I think you’ll see all the companies having to make an
even larger effort to bring in the customer,” he said.  Fewer Originations  Early data shows the industry has not absorbed the volume
of reverse mortgages that were originated and financed by Bank
of America and Financial Freedom, a former subsidiary of the
failed IndyMac Bank that closed down earlier this year.  “It doesn’t look like they’re picking up quite as much as
we would have expected,” Lunde said.  One reason, he said, is that in an era of falling  home
prices , the FHA has lowered the ceiling on the percentage of
equity that borrowers can take out of their homes.  At the same time, borrowers are more likely than in the
past to be seeking access to as much of their equity as
possible, Bell said. Though reverse mortgages began as a way for
seniors to supplement their monthly income, more are now using
them to reorganize other debts. In itself, that creates new
challenges for lenders.  “That vastly changes the risk profile, and it requires a
recalibration in thinking,” Bell said.  While regulatory and economic challenges have left the
market to the specialty firms for now, Lewis and other analysts
say they expect larger and smaller players to come back in once
the housing market stabilizes.  No Prior Approval  Regulatory policies governing mortgage brokers can cut
both ways. While the loan officer compensation rule may make it
harder for some brokers to operate, a new FHA policy allows
mortgage brokers to originate reverse loans without prior FHA
approval, perhaps leading to more broker originations, Lunde
said.  Lewis thinks big banks will want to return to providing
reverse mortgages as soon as the housing market stabilizes.  “I think you will absolutely see larger institutions come
back into this market because this product is going to become
happily run-of-the-mill,” he said. “It will become
mainstream.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in  Washington  at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  