-- 
Blood Loss From Hospital Tests May Cause Anemia in Patients, Study Finds

-- B y   O l i v e r   R e n i c k
-- 
2011-08-08T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/blood-loss-from-hospital-tests-may-cause-anemia-in-patients-study-finds.html
Patients who enter hospitals due to
heart attacks may be leaving with anemia caused by laboratory
tests that draw too much blood, raising their risk of declining
health and death, a study found.  In an analysis of almost 18,000 patients in 57 U.S.
hospitals from 2000 to 2008, researchers found that 20 percent
of patients who didn’t have anemia when admitted for heart
attacks developed moderate to severe cases of the red blood-cell
deficiency by the time they left. The study is published today
in the journal  Archives  of  Internal Medicine .  Anemia is associated with greater death rates and worse
health in patients who have already suffered heart attacks, the
study said. Patients who developed anemia left the hospital
suffering from fatigue, shortness of breath and physical
weakness. Doctors may need to change some of their practices,
said  Mikhail Kosiborod , an associate professor of medicine at
the University of Missouri-Kansas City and the study’s senior
author.  “The amount of blood we take from patients is a major risk
factor” for anemia, Kosiborod said. “If they have other
medical problems their body can’t regenerate blood cells fast
enough.”  Preventable adverse events in hospitals such as infections
and sickness cost $4.4 billion a year, and happen to 1 in 7
beneficiaries of Medicare, the U.S. health program for the
elderly and disabled,  according  to the  Department of Health  and
Human Services. Kosiborod said the findings weren’t related to
medical mistakes, though steps may be taken to reduce the amount
of blood drawn.  Blood Volumes  The study found that the average volume of blood drawn from
patients who developed anemia was 173.8 milliliters. That’s more
than double the 83.5 milliliters from patients who didn’t get
anemia, according to the study. For every 50 milliliters of
blood drawn, the risk of moderate to severe hospital-acquired
anemia increased by 18 percent.  Many doctors have become accustomed to drawing blood
without an immediate need for the sample, said  Stephanie Rennke ,
an assistant clinical professor at the  University of California,
San Francisco  and lead author of a commentary article on the
anemia study.  “Some doctors indiscriminately take blood tests without
consciously asking why they need it and what they’re looking
for,” she said in an interview. “It’s hard to change when they
get into the routine of doing things.”  She said facilities can prevent hospital-acquired anemia
by providing proper nutrition to patients, testing from a single
blood sample each day and only testing on the day of discharge
if absolutely necessary.  The average blood loss across hospitals ranged from 119 to
246 milliliters, indicating that some blood loss could be
prevented by eliminating routine testing, the study’s authors
said.  By using smaller tubes and sampling from blood that has
already been drawn, hospitals may be able to reduce the amount
of blood loss, Kosiborod said.  “Doctors have to take blood to help patients,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Renick in New York at 
 orenick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 