-- 
Bank of New York Mellon Says Clients Moderate Big Deposits Into Accounts

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 
2011-08-08T21:21:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/bny-mellon-says-deposit-surge-moderates-after-announcing-fee-on-balances.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the
world’s largest custody bank, said a surge in big cash deposits
slowed in recent days after the company told clients it will
charge a fee for excessively high balances.  “We’ve seen deposit levels of this nature begin to
moderate in recent days,” Kevin Heine, a spokesman for the New
York-based company, said today in an e-mailed statement. “We
expect the fee will only be applied to a handful of exceptional
cases where deposits have risen dramatically.”  BNY Mellon said Aug. 4 that it will charge a fee of 0.13
percent on “excess amounts of cash based on June averages.”
The fee applies to U.S. dollar deposits of more than $50
million, though it won’t affect clients whose balances are
consistent with prior levels, the bank said last week.  Investors are seeking the safety of bank accounts as
concerns increase that the global economy may slide into a
recession and governments in the U.S. and  Europe  struggle with a
rising debt load. A legislative stalemate over the U.S. debt
ceiling prompted institutions to pull $103 billion from money-
market mutual funds in the week ended Aug. 2, the most since the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008.  Money funds attracted assets on Aug. 4 and Aug. 5, after
President Obama signed a bill Aug. 2 that ended the impasse over
the debt ceiling,  Peter Crane , president of Crane Data LLC of
Westborough,  Massachusetts , said in a telephone interview today.  With little scope to reinvest deposits in short-term debt
at a profit, banks such as BNY Mellon are left with the cost of
insuring accounts with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  BNY Mellon said last week that the fee probably will be
dropped when markets stabilize and cash levels drop. Today, the
bank in its statement said the fee was designed to cover its
costs in an unusual situation, and “was never designed as a
revenue source.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  