-- 
Boeing Documents From Labor Board Subpoenaed by U.S. House

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-08-08T19:44:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/boeing-documents-from-labor-board-case-subpoenaed-by-u-s-house.html
A Republican-led U.S. House committee
subpoenaed the  National Labor Relations Board  for documents in
the agency’s case against  Boeing Co. (BA)  over a decision to build a
South Carolina airplane factory.  Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican and
chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee,
issued the subpoena yesterday, setting Aug. 12 to respond after
deeming earlier responses to be inadequate. Lafe Solomon, NLRB
acting general counsel, said today the subpoena from Congress is
the first against the board since 1940.  “I am disappointed and surprised,” Solomon said in an e-
mail statement. “For months, my staff and I have diligently
tried to satisfy the committee’s desire for information while
also preserving the integrity of our process.”  Republicans led by Issa sought documents in May as part of
an investigation into the board’s April 20 decision to lodge the
unfair labor case. The complaint claims Chicago-based Boeing,
the world’s largest aerospace company, built the factory in
South Carolina, where workers aren’t required to join a union,
to retaliate for five strikes since 1975 in  Washington  state.  The International Association of Machinists, representing
Boeing’s workers, brought the case to the board. It’s against
the law to punish workers for striking or joining a union.  “As this matter could take years to resolve and create
even more crippling uncertainty for job creators, it is
imperative that Congress get complete facts about NLRB’s
rationale and its decision-making process in this matter without
further delay,” Issa said in a statement yesterday.  1,000 Pages  The board has provided more than 1,000 pages of documents
to lawmakers including court transcripts and rulings, as well as
legal theories, Solomon said. The board hasn’t communicated with
the White House on the complaint, Solomon said, referring to the
committee’s requests for those documents.  Providing additional information, such as statements of
witnesses who will testify in an administrative hearing that
began in June, might establish precedent that may “endanger”
future cases, Solomon said.  Boeing has said the decision to build a plant in  South
Carolina  reflected financial considerations and U.S. companies
have the right to move work around the country. The plant’s
monthly target output will be three jets by 2013, with a goal of
seven planes a month in Everett, Washington.  Call Logs  The House oversight panel has been seeking records, such as
e-mails and logs of calls between the office of Solomon, the
five-member board and the Machinists union. The subpoena from
Issa requests documents dating from January 2009 relating to the
NLRB’s communications on the Boeing case.  Issa issued the subpoena as the panel’s chairman without
letting the committee debate or vote, Representative Elijah E.
Cummings of  Maryland , the senior Democrat on the committee, said
in a statement.  “The chairman has an obligation to use his authority to
issue subpoenas responsibly and not to exercise it in an
inappropriate manner to assist a private party, even one as
powerful as the Boeing Corporation,” Cummings said.  Representative Carolyn Maloney, a New York Democrat, said
in June at a hearing of Issa’s committee that the NLRB complaint
against Boeing was a legitimate effort to uphold the “right to
protest” by union workers.  Eleanor Holmes Norton, the delegate representing the
District of Colombia, said the committee’s June 17 hearing in
North Charleston, South Carolina, appeared “to taint a legal
proceeding” by pressuring the labor board.  ‘Premature Disclosure’  The board responded to Issa’s previous letters by providing
some communications and withholding other documents, citing an
administrative judge’s  hearing  on the case in  Seattle , according
to a July 29 letter from Solomon.  “Premature disclosure” of information could “seriously
compromise the litigation,” according to the letter.  Tim Neale, a spokesman for Boeing, and Bryan Corliss, a
spokesman for the Machinists union, declined to comment on the
subpoena.  “That a Washington, D.C.-based bureaucracy could dictate
the work location and parameters for a world-leading company is
unprecedented in a global economy and hobbles a leading American
job creator at a time of economic vulnerability,” Issa said
yesterday in the statement.  In a July 28 letter to Solomon, Issa said a “coordinated
effort” by Democratic lawmakers and the NLRB was seeking to
“obstruct” the committee’s oversight responsibilities.  ‘Intimidation To Me’  Senator Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
on May 11 that Republican interference with the board is a
“dangerous” challenge to the agency’s independence and
“sounds like intimidation to me.”  A hearing on the Boeing complaint began June 14 in Seattle
before an administrative law judge. The company should be
required to build an additional 787 assembly line in Washington
state as a remedy, according to Solomon.  The NLRB complaint misquoted or mischaracterized statements
by Boeing executives, according to a May letter by company
lawyer J. Michael Luttig.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  