-- 
Italian, Spanish Bonds Rally as ECB Said to Buy Debt; German Bunds Decline

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-08-08T16:07:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/bonds-rally-in-italy-spain-to-narrow-spread-to-bunds-after-ecb-buy-signal.html
Italian and Spanish bonds surged,
driving yields down the most since the euro began in 1999, as
the  European Central Bank  bought the debt to stop the fiscal
crisis infecting the area’s third- and fourth-largest economies.  The extra yield investors demand to hold bonds from Spain
and Italy instead of German bunds narrowed as four people with
knowledge of the transactions said the ECB purchased the
nations’ debt. It also bought Irish and Portuguese securities,
two people said. Belgian securities also climbed relative to
bunds on optimism the measures may stem contagion. German bonds
rose as stocks dropped amid concern global growth is slowing.  The ECB’s purchases are “a confidence builder, and the
fact that they are stepping in is causing some people to review
their stance on some of the countries,” said Rasmus Rousing, a
fixed-income strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich.
“They are showing their commitment not to let spreads widen
beyond a certain threshold.”  The yield on 10-year Italian bonds tumbled 80 basis points
to 5.29 percent at 4:10 p.m. in London. The 4.75 percent
securities maturing in September 2021 jumped 5.7, or 57 euros
per 1,000-euro ($1,422) face amount, to 96.32. That narrowed the
difference in yield, or spread, to similar-maturity German debt
by 73 basis points to 301 basis points. The yield on two-year
Italian notes dropped 92 basis points to 3.60 percent.  ECB Statement  Italy  is the euro area’s biggest bond market, with 1.8
trillion euros of  outstanding debt  as of Dec. 31, compared with
1.1 trillion euros of German debt outstanding on June 30,
according to websites from the nations’ debt agencies.  The Frankfurt-based central bank’s Governing Council held
an emergency conference call yesterday, before saying it intends
to “actively implement” its bond-purchase program. Group of
Seven finance ministers and central bank governors also pledged
in a statement to “take all necessary measures to support
financial stability and growth” as the U.S. had its credit
ranking cut one level to AA+ by  Standard & Poor’s  on Aug. 5.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  detailed the steps Italy
must take to overhaul its economy in a letter sent last week to
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ,  Corriere della Sera  reported
today. The Italian leader pledged further austerity and to
balance Italy’s budget in 2013 on Aug. 5. Spanish Prime Minister
Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero also spoke with euro-area peers
last week and agreed to press to implement accords adopted at
the July 21 summit as soon as possible.  Yield Spread  The yield spread between Spanish and German 10-year bonds
narrowed 81 basis points to 289 basis points, or 2.89 percentage
points, as the yield on the Spanish securities dropped 88 basis
points to 5.17 percent. The Spanish two-year note yield sank 108
basis points to 3.27 percent.  The Belgian-German 10-year spread narrowed nine basis
points to 202 basis points. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western
Europe Index of credit-default swaps linked to the debt of 15
governments dropped six basis points to 280, according to Markit
Group Ltd.  The ECB purchases will need to be sustained to have a
lasting effect on Italian and Spanish debt, said  Glenn Marci , a
strategist at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt .  Italian 10-year yields rose to euro-era records last week
even after they dropped 26 basis points to 5.34 percent on July
21, when European leaders expanded aid for  Greece  and German
Deputy Foreign Minister Werner Hoyer said his country may not
resist joining common bonds in the euro area forever. Spanish
10-year yields also climbed to euro-era highs.  ‘Magic Bullet’  “There are some people hoping this will be the magic
bullet, but I’m not sure the ECB will keep buying at a scale
that will influence markets on a sustainable basis,” Marci
said.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year German bund was five
basis points lower at 2.30 percent. Yields earlier rose as much
as 19 basis points to 2.53 percent, the biggest increase since
May 10, 2010, when the ECB began buying the bonds of the
region’s most indebted nations.  The additional yield investors demand to hold French 10-
year bonds instead of benchmark German debt increased seven
basis points to 88 basis points.  The securities dropped as stocks declined and a German
deputy government spokesman said the nation didn’t see any
additional measures being taken to resolve the crisis beyond
those agreed upon at the July summit. The agreement didn’t boost
the size of the European Financial Stability Facility, he said.  ‘More Contradictions’  “Equities are trading toward the lows of the day, and
that’s accounted for much of the reversal of that initial uptick
in yields,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at
Monument Securities Ltd. in  London . “Secondly and most
importantly and unsurprisingly, we are starting off with more
contradictions. It’s going to remain extremely choppy.”  European investor confidence had its steepest decline on
record in August, Sentix said. An index measuring sentiment in
the 17-nation euro region fell to minus 13.5 from 5.3 in July,
the Limburg, Germany-based research institute said today.  German  government bonds  handed investors 4.5 percent this
year, compared with 5.4 percent for U.S. Treasuries, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish bonds have returned 0.1
percent, while Italian debt earned a 4.4 percent loss.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  