-- 
Bond Risk at Two-Year High as S&P Spurs Rout: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-08-09T08:23:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/bond-risk-reaches-2009-high-as-s-p-spurs-resources-rout-australia-credit.html
Standard & Poor’s  says Australian
bonds are less risky than U.S. debt. Credit-default swap
investors say the opposite.  Contracts to insure the government bonds of AAA-rated
Australia against default rose 10 basis points to 81.3 as of
5:01 p.m. in Sydney today, the highest level since May 2009,
according to data provider CMA. Swaps on Treasuries rose 1 basis
point to 56.3 yesterday, according to CMA, after S&P cut the
U.S. to AA+ on Aug. 5.  The Aussie dollar fell yesterday for an eighth day, its
longest stretch of losses in a decade, after the S&P downgrade
spurred routs in equities and commodities. While the Australian
government’s debt burden is forecast to be the developed world’s
second-smallest -- and its A$197 billion ($202 billion)  bond
market  is about 2 percent of the U.S. Treasuries outstanding --
the smaller nation’s prospects are tied to a mining boom that
may falter if the world’s economic recovery stalls.  “Australia is vulnerable to a global slowdown, risk
aversion in general, and the commodities selloff, so investors
are focused on hedging these risks with sovereign credit-default
swaps,” said Jason Watts, Sydney-based head of credit trading
at National Australia Bank Ltd. “Credit-default swaps on the
U.S. had steadily widened in anticipation of some action by
rating agencies, meaning the actual announcement is unlikely to
have a huge impact.”  U.S. Rating  S&P lowered the U.S.’s long-term rating one level after
markets closed on Aug. 5 and kept the outlook at “negative,”
saying it was becoming less confident in lawmakers’ ability to
tackle the  budget deficit .  Swaps on the Australian sovereign rose 12.3 basis points
last week to 69.3, according to CMA. Contracts insuring U.S.
debt against default dropped 6.7 basis points to 55.4. The gap
between the two has expanded to the widest since July 2010.  Australian stocks plunged yesterday, dragging the nation’s
key index down more than 20 percent from its April 2010 peak,
even as the Group of Seven nations sought to head off a collapse
in global confidence. The S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 1.2 percent in
Sydney today as governments in Taiwan and  South Korea  acted to
stem stock declines and amid speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will announce measures to support markets.  Australia’s benchmark corporate bond risk gauge rose today
to the highest in almost two years. The Markit iTraxx Australia
index surged 22.5 basis points to 157 as of 10:48 a.m. in
Sydney, Credit Agricole CIB prices show. That was on course for
its highest close since Aug. 19, 2009, and its biggest one-day
increase since March 6, 2009, according to prices from CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  RBA Rates  The yield on Australia’s December cash-rate contracts was
at 3.52 percent as of 5:24 p.m. in Sydney from 4.68 percent at
the end of July, according to the  Sydney Futures Exchange .  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens  held the
overnight cash rate target at 4.75 percent for an eighth
straight meeting on Aug. 2. He cited global disruptions as he
extended the longest pause since he took the helm in 2006.  The RBA raised the benchmark by 175 basis points from
October 2009 to November 2010 to cool inflation as booming iron-
ore and coal exports helped push down the jobless rate to 4.9
percent, a level the government regards as close to full
employment.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Australian
corporate bonds instead of sovereign notes held at 186 basis
points yesterday, the highest since Jan. 31, according to a Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index.  Kangaroo Bonds  A gauge of banks’ difficulty in raising funds rose to the
highest level since January 2009. The gap between the interest
banks pay to borrow from each other for three months and swaps
that track expectations for the RBA’s benchmark rate reached 61
basis points.  The U.S. downgrade will affect Australian credit markets if
kangaroo bond issuers whose ratings are supported by the U.S.
sovereign’s grade are cut, while local companies face currency
volatility, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc credit analyst  John Manning  said in a research note yesterday.  “The clear risk for me is systemically important U.S.
banks which enjoy multi-notch ratings uplift linked to the U.S.
government ratings,” he said, adding that  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are most vulnerable to
a downgrade. “Challenges for Australian corporates from these
global events are most likely to be felt via currency
volatility.”  U.S. equities tumbled yesterday, with the  S&P 500 Index 
dropping 6.7 percent. Every stock in the measure retreated for
the first time since at least 1996 and Bank of America Corp.
tumbled 20 percent. Global equities tumbled and European shares
entered a bear market.  Aussie Plunges  The Aussie, the world’s fifth-most traded currency, traded
at $1.0214 as of 5:25 p.m. in Sydney, after reaching a record
$1.1081 on July 27.  Data from  China  and the U.S. over the past two weeks showed
output in both nations is cooling, damping the outlook for
global export growth. China’s purchasing managers’ index for
manufacturing dropped to the lowest level in 29 months in July,
and a separate gauge published by HSBC Holdings Plc showed a
contraction for the first time in a year, data issued on Aug. 1
showed.  Output Slumps  U.S. economic growth in the first half of this year was the
weakest since the recovery began in June 2009, Commerce
Department figures showed July 29. The Institute for Supply
Management’s factory index slumped to 50.9, the least since July
2009 and lower than the most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey, according to data released Aug. 1.  China surpassed the U.S. and  Japan  to become Australia’s
largest economic partner as bilateral trade quadrupled over the
past seven years to A$97.6 billion in 2010, according to
government data.  The RBA slashed its 2011 growth forecast last week and
raised its outlook for inflation, while signaling concern that
debt crises in the U.S. and  Europe  may become “disorderly and
disruptive.”  Inflation expectations have declined over the past two
months amid concern the European and  U.S. debt  crises will
worsen. The gap between yields on 10-year inflation-linked bonds
and debt not indexed to consumer prices was at 2.68 percentage
points as of 5:25 p.m. in Sydney. The gap represents the average
annual inflation rate anticipated by investors over the bonds’
lifetime.  Sovereign Debt  The yield on the benchmark three-year bond fell 2 basis
points to 3.83 percent today, after falling a record 48 basis
points on Aug. 5. The rate on the 5.5 percent note maturing in
April 2023, Australia’s longest nominal bond, fell 5 basis
points to 4.72 percent.  Australia’s sovereign debt returned 8.3 percent this year,
including reinvested interest, the biggest gain among 20
developed markets after New Zealand’s 9.2 percent climb, Merrill
Lynch indexes show.  Australia’s gross government borrowings will be 25 percent
of its economy this year while the U.S. debt burden will be 100
percent of gross domestic product, the  International Monetary
Fund  estimated in April.  The number of outstanding contracts on U.S. debt surged 25
percent in the week ending July 29 compared with the prior week,
according to data on the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.
 website . The swap contracts covered a net amount of $5.6
billion, up from $4.9 billion a week earlier, the data show.  Outstanding default-swap contracts on the Australian
sovereign increased to 1,985 from 1,935, while the net amount of
debt protected rose 3.8 percent to $4.5 billion, according to
the DTCC data.  U.S. Haven  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.
They typically rise as investor confidence deteriorates and fall
as it improves. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  “The U.S. is still seen as a safe haven and I would
question the relevancy of S&P’s downgrade in a situation where
Europe is facing issues of sovereign solvency,” said Scott Rundell, head of credit research at ING Investment Management in
Sydney, which manages about A$15 billion of fixed-income assets.
“While Australia’s economy will slow in line with a global
softening, we are still a growth country and I remain
constructive on credit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  