-- 
Bond Inflation Gauge Strips Bernanke of Last Year’s Tools

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-08-08T09:46:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/bond-inflation-gauge-strips-bernanke-of-last-year-s-tools-2-.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  had twin goals a year ago: stop falling prices and
boost growth. His remedies worked so well on inflation that the
 bond market  shows he may have limited options now that the
economy is slowing again.  A measure of traders’ inflation expectations that the Fed
uses to help determine monetary policy rose as high as 3.23
percent last week from 2.18 percent in August 2010. The five-
year, five-year forward breakeven rate, which projects what the
pace of price increases may be starting in 2016, rose to the
highest level since December.  Congress has agreed to $2.4 trillion of budget cuts during
the next 10 years, threatening to restrain growth. After
successfully boosting price expectations by buying $600 billion
of Treasuries between November and June, a third round of so-
called quantitative easing would risk spurring inflation,
creating an impediment to the central bank’s further fueling of
the biggest rally in  government bonds  since last August.  Fed policy makers “painted themselves into a box,” said
Robert Tipp, the chief investment strategist for fixed income at
 Newark , New Jersey-based Prudential Investment Management, which
oversees more than $200 billion in bonds. “They went to great
lengths to say they were concerned about inflation expectations,
they were concerned about the risk of deflation, and therefore
it was okay to take these extraordinary measures. The hurdles
are definitely high here for a QE3.”  Weakening Economy  As he prepares to head to Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , this month
for the annual meeting of central bankers, Bernanke is under
pressure to renew the Fed’s efforts as reports on everything
from gross domestic product and  consumer confidence  to
manufacturing and housing show the U.S. recovery is slowing.  GDP climbed at a 1.3 percent annual rate last quarter
following a 0.4 percent gain in the first three months of the
year that was less than earlier estimated, Commerce Department
figures showed July 29. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists said
in an Aug. 5 report there’s a one-in-three chance of a recession
within the next nine months as the bank cut its 2012 growth
forecast to 2.1 percent from 3 percent.  Speculation the Fed may need to buy more bonds to juice the
economy has helped spur the rally in government debt even as
lawmakers fought about how to raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion
debt ceiling and cut spending.  S&P Downgrade  Late on Aug. 5,  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S.’s credit
rating one level to AA+ from AAA, slamming the nation’s
political process and criticizing lawmakers for failing to
reduce expenditures or raise revenue enough to trim the more-
than-$1 trillion  budget deficit .  For all the turmoil in Washington, Treasuries have returned
2.9 percent since the end of June, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch bond indexes. That compares with a drop of 9
percent in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries tumbled 24 basis points last
week, or 0.24 percentage point, to 2.56 percent, the biggest
drop since August 2009 and down from this year’s high of 3.77
percent on Feb. 9. The record low is 2.04 percent, set in
December 2008. The benchmark 3.125 percent note due May 2021
rose 2 2/32, or $20.63 per $1,000 face amount, to 104 27/32,
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices show.  The rate was 2.48 percent today as of 10:45 a.m. in  London .  Rising Rate  Even as yields fell last week, all of the money pumped into
the economy by the Fed drove the five-year, five-year measure to
the highest level since December. The gauge averaged 2.6 percent
in the five years before the financial crisis began, and dropped
as low as 1.96 percent in December 2008.  The pace of consumer price gains, which totaled 3.6 percent
in June from a year earlier, exceeds 10-year yields by more than
1 percentage point, the most since September 2008.  Treasuries ended last week on a down note, tumbling after
the Labor Department in  Washington  said payrolls rose by 117,000
workers in July, exceeding the median estimate of 85,000 in a
Bloomberg News survey. Average hourly earnings climbed 0.4
percent, matching the biggest increase since November 2008.  “Given my economic outlook, they are overvalued,” Gary Pollack, head of fixed-income trading at a Deutsche Bank AG
private wealth management group in  New York  that oversees $12
billion.  Wagers against bonds have been a losing bet. At the start
of the year, the median estimate of more than 70 economists and
strategists was for 10-year yields to be above 3.48 percent by
now. Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show the securities
have returned 5.3 percent this year, including reinvested
interest, compared with a 3.6 percent drop in the  S&P 500 index .  Bond Auctions  Even Pollack said yields “could stay where they are for
the next couple of weeks” as investors hold onto government
debt “until the economic picture clarifies itself.”  Bonds may be supported this week as the U.S. auctions $72
billion of three-, 10- and 30-year securities after the Bank of
 Japan  intervened in the foreign-exchange market by selling its
currency to stem the yen’s appreciation after gains of about 3.4
percent against the dollar during the past month.  Treasury data show Japan historically uses proceeds of yen
sales to buy Treasuries. The nation’s purchases of  U.S. debt 
rose following periods of intervention in March 2011, September
2010 and 2003-2004, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
strategists Priya Misra and Shyam Rajan.  Different Environment  For all the challenges in the U.S., Bernanke is facing a
different environment from a year ago when he indicated in an
Aug. 27 speech to central bankers in  Jackson Hole  that the Fed
was prepared to “do all that it can” to ensure economic
recovery and that more securities purchases may be warranted if
growth slowed. The Fed’s balance sheet has expanded to $2.87
trillion from $898 billion in August 2008.  Back then, the personal consumption expenditure index
excluding food and energy was falling, to 0.9 percent by
December 2010 from 1.8 percent in March 2010. Policy makers were
concerned the economy would suffer deflation and hinder
investment.  Now, the index, which the Fed uses to project inflation,
has risen to 1.3 percent. The central bank forecast in June the
rate would rise 1.5 percent to 1.8 percent this year, and 1.4
percent to 2 percent in 2012.  Rising core inflation rates are “the main impediment” to
additional asset purchases, said Steven Lear, deputy chief
investment officer at Asset Management’s Global Fixed Income
Group in New York, who helps oversee $130 billion in assets.
“They don’t really have the latitude to engage in QE3.”  Bigger Obstacles  While Bernanke signaled last month that the Fed has more
tools to ease monetary policy, the obstacles to using them are
larger. “We have to keep all the options on the table,” he
said July 13 in semi-annual testimony to the House Financial
Services Committee.  Besides additional asset purchases, the Fed could pledge to
keep the target interest rate for overnight loans between banks
at a record low, maintain the assets on its balance sheet at
$2.87 trillion for a longer period, boost the average maturity
of securities holdings or cut the rate it pays banks on their
reserves, Bernanke told Congress.  The Fed has kept its target rate at between zero and 0.25
percent since December 2008.  Yields on Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, or TIPS,
show traders expect inflation during the next 10 years will be
almost 0.75 percentage point higher than they forecast a year
ago. The breakeven inflation rate, calculated from yield
differences on 10-year Treasury notes and inflation-indexed U.S.
government bonds of similar maturity, has risen to 2.24 percent
from a nine-month low of 1.47 percent reached on Aug. 25, 2010.  Consumer Price Gains  The U.S. inflation rate reached 3.6 percent in June,
compared with the average of 2.4 percent during the past decade
and 2.6 percent the past 20 years.  Other measures such as real yields show investors aren’t
being compensated enough for inflation. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note was lower than the pace of consumer price
increases for a third month in July. The gap reached 1
percentage point Aug. 2, the most since September 2008, which
was also the last time inflation was higher than 10-year yields
for three months.  Investor bets show the risk “is increasing for higher
inflation, and as a result, people are willing to pay more and
more” for protection, said Daniel Dektar, the chief investment
officer at  Chapel Hill , North Carolina-based Smith Breeden
Associates, which oversees $6.5 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  