-- 
Bono’s Cocktails, Marco’s Steak Top Menu: Dine & Deal in Dublin

-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e ,   C o r m a c   M u l l e n   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-08-08T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/bono-s-cocktails-marco-s-steak-top-bailout-menus-dine-deal-in-dublin.html
The death of the Celtic Tiger has
eaten away at the  food industry  in Dublin, with the Restaurant
Association of Ireland estimating that one eatery is closing
every day.  Still, enough have survived to feed investors who are
visiting in search of bargain real estate and companies.  Those still dining and dealing amid the European bailout
for Ireland can eat at U2’s table or feast on Marco Pierre White’s steaks. Here are our choices, in alphabetical order, for
business dining in Dublin.  1. Chapter One: 18-19 Parnell Square, Dublin 1. Information:
+353-1-873-2266:  http://www.chapteronerestaurant.com .  What: Irish/French.  Why: Check out the restaurant consistently voted the city’s
best by Dublin’s foodies. The one-Michelin-star cuisine includes
the likes of butter poached cod with lobster and duck breast
smoked over turf with foie gras cream on a tasting menu priced
at 62 euros ($88).  Where: On Parnell Square, in the heart of Dublin’s north
inner city, not the most salubrious part of town. Dodge the
junkies, and head downstairs from the  Dublin Writers Museum .
Close to the Gate Theatre and the Hugh Lane Gallery, with its
groovy signage.  When: It used to be the hottest ticket in Dublin, with
reservations required weeks in advance. While Chapter One is
easier to get into now, it’s still worth calling well in advance
to ensure a table, especially at the weekends.  Bar: Yes, a lounge off the main restaurant.  Private room: Two. Space for 16 in the Vault Room alcove,
while the separate John Jameson Room seats 14.  Sound level: Muted during lunch. A bit more boisterous at
the weekend when the birthday cakes are wheeled out.  2. The Tea Room at the Clarence: 6-8 Wellington Quay, Dublin 2.
Information: +353-1-407-0813:
 http://www.theclarence.ie/tearoom-restaurant .  What: Irish with a continental twist.  Why: Owned by U2’s Bono and the Edge, the Tea Room is
located in the former ballroom of the Clarence. It offers simple
and delicious Irish cuisine in spacious and tastefully decorated
surroundings.  Where: Located a 5-minute walk from O’Connell Bridge or
Trinity College in the Temple Bar district.  When: Leisurely lunch. A four-course a la carte lunch with
a glass of wine costs about 35 euros per person. The dishes
include grilled rib-eye of beef at 25 euros on the dinner menu.
Suitable for business or pleasure.  Bar: The Octagon bar in the Clarence boasts cocktails such
as the Clarence Blossom, with vodka, elderflower and blackberry
at 9.50 euros.  Private room: The Mezzanine level of the Tea Room allows
for about 20 people to dine in the restaurant away from other
guests.  Sound level: Quiet, staff members are attentive, and Irish
guests at a nearby table may regale you with tales of their
rollercoaster exploits of the  Celtic Tiger  era.  3. Dax: 23 Pembroke St. Upper, Dublin 2. Information:
+353-1-676-1494:  http://www.dax.ie .  What: Regional French.  Why: Excellent food in attractive surroundings with
efficient and friendly service personified by welcoming owner
and Aquitaine native Olivier Meisonnave.  Where: On Pembroke St. Upper, in the middle of Georgian
Dublin, a short stroll from St Stephen’s Green and the pubs of
Baggot Street and Merrion Row.  When: Anytime. Ideal as a relaxed business lunch venue just
as much as a romantic dinner spot. The Cafe Bar above the
restaurant serves breakfast in the morning and tapas during the
day and evening. Lunch is 24.50 euros for 2 courses, 29.50 euros
for 3 and mains on the a-la-carte menu range from 19 euros to 33
euros.  Bar: Yes, a wine bar at the restaurant entrance and the
Cafe Bar above.  Private room: Semi-private alcove in the main restaurant
has room for as many as 14 diners.  Sound level: Tables are spaced perfectly apart. You are
neither eavesdropping on your neighbors nor afraid to speak
above a whisper.  4. Ely Bar and Brasserie: Custom House Quay Dublin 1.
Information: +353-1-672-0010;  http://www.elywinebar.ie .  What: Of the three Elys in the city, this is our favorite,
a gorgeous oasis in the heart of the financial district.  Why: What sets Ely apart is the beautiful, airy dining room
upstairs, the pleasant staff and on a rare sunny day in Dublin,
the prospect of a cold beer and alfresco eating. Also, unlike
most restaurants in Dublin, Ely accepts American Express.  Where: In the International Financial Services Center, a
stone’s throw from the River Liffey.  When: Anytime, though especially on a sunny evening.  Bar: The bar on the atrium-like ground bar serves premium
beers such as Erdinger, Paulaner and Krombacher and cocktails.  Private room: The private cellar room in the vaults can be
booked for 12 guests for dinner.  Sound level: Buzzy on a Friday evening when the sun shines.  5. Marco Pierre White’s Steakhouse & Grill: 51 Dawson Street,
Dublin 2. Information: +353-1-6771155;
 http://www.marcopierrewhite.ie/ .  What: Steak.  Why: While celebrity-chef joints don’t appeal to everybody,
the steak here is superb. There’s an outdoor seating area where
you can watch the world spin by.  Where: Dawson Street, between Trinity College and Cafe en
Seine -- a popular spot for the wealthy, single set.  When: Ideal for a Thursday night, when the city still
carries a hint of the good times.  Bar: Yes.  Private room: No.  Sound level: Fine, though the buses roaring down Dawson
Street can be a little off-putting.  6. Old Stand: Exchequer Street. Information: +353-1-6777220 or
 http://www.theoldstandpub.com .  What: Classy pub grub.  Why: A little more informal, this works perfectly if you
fancy a couple of pints of creamy stout to celebrate a deal. The
light-filled rugby pub serves an excellent steak burger, a snip
at 10 euros.  Where: Just west of Grafton Street, the city’s main
shopping thoroughfare.  When: Lunch.  Bar: Yes.  Private Room: No.  Sound level: Bantering barman aside, sedate enough except
when Ireland are beating  England  at rugby.  7. Pichet: 14/15 Trinity Street Dublin 2. Information:
+353-1-677-1060 or  http://www.pichet-restaurant.com/ .  What: Mix of Irish, British, Italian and French food.  Why: Bustling city center bistro with a lively atmosphere.  Where: Across the road from the central bank on Dame
Street. Close to the Stag’s Head, arguably the best pub in
Dublin.  When: Busy all week, which is unusual these days.  Bar: No.  Private room: No  Sound level: Busy and buzzy, not a place to whisper the
confidential details of a deal about to be done.  8. Rustic Stone: South George’s St., Dublin 2. Information:
+353-1-707-9596 or  http://www.rusticstone.ie .  What: Meat, and plenty of it.  Why: After the Michelin-starred Mint disappeared, this is
Dylan McGrath’s comeback venture. The shtick is you get to
finish cooking your steak on volcanic stones. While it sounds a
little Fred Flintstone, it works surprisingly well. Also, try
the tempura and olives as a starter.  Where: At the corner of the bustling Wicklow Street and
George’s Street. The site has been a graveyard for restaurants.
Perhaps the charismatic McGrath can change that.  When: Quiet at lunchtime, rocking at the weekends.  Bar: Yes, downstairs.  Private room: No, but there is a large, relatively secluded
table downstairs which would suit a celebration of a deal done.  Sound level: Quiet, weekdays. Not so at the weekend.  9. Thornton’s: 128 St. Stephen’s Green, Dublin 2. Information:
+353-1-478-7008:  http://www.thorntonsrestaurant.com/ .  What: Modern French with an Irish twist.  Why: Michelin-starred cuisine from Kevin Thornton, famed
for his food and once throwing a strop when an unsuspecting
diner asked for fries.  Where: On the Grafton Street end of St Stephen’s Green
where Bono famously grazed his sheep after receiving the key to
the city.  When: Lunch. Thornton’s offer a 25 euros or 49 euros lunch
menu Thursday through Saturday, a great-value way to decide if
Thornton is on track to win back his second Michelin star.  Bar: Yes, a cocktail bar adjacent to the main restaurant.  Private room: The Scott room offers semi-private dining for
up to 24 people. The Main Dining Room is available for private
events for up to 70 people.  Sound level: When lunch service is full, the volume is to
match, though not loud enough to be considered a nuisance.  10. Town Bar and Grill: 21 Kildare Street, Dublin 2.
Information: +353-1-662-4800;  http://www.townbarandgrill.com .  What: Contemporary Italian.  Why: Follow in the footsteps of the IMF with the visit to
Ronan Ryan’s basement. The food is reasonable, the atmosphere
cheery and you may spot a government minister mingling with low-
level Irish celebrities.  Where: Five minutes stroll from Leinster House, the Irish
parliament, on Kildare Street.  When: Leisurely 24 euro lunches. This is not the place to
discreetly close a deal.  Bar: Small bar area.  Private room: There’s an alcove that seats 14; otherwise
you have to hire the whole place.  Sound level: It’s no library, so prepare for a little more
than discreet murmuring.  (Dara Doyle is Dublin bureau chief; Cormac Mullen and
Finbarr Flynn are reporters for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are their own. This report is the fourth of the 2011
series of Bloomberg Dine & Deal. The articles survey top cities
and offer informed tips on good restaurants for business and 
pleasure.)  To contact the writers on the story:
Dara Doyle at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
Cormac Mullen at   cmullen9@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 