-- 
Bovespa Stock Index Drops to Lowest Since April 2009 After U.S. Rating Cut

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-08-08T20:46:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/bovespa-tumbles-to-two-year-low-on-u-s-debt-rating-cut-commodities-drop.html
All 66 stocks on the Bovespa index
tumbled as the gauge plunged to its lowest level since April
2009 after a U.S. credit-rating downgrade intensified concern
that an economic slowdown in Brazil’s second-biggest trading
partner may worsen and commodities prices dropped.  Oil company Petroleo Brasileiro SA and miner Vale SA
followed crude and metal prices lower. Separately, Petrobras’
plan to fund part of its investment plan by selling stakes it
owns in Brazilian companies may be affected by the slump in the
global markets, Chief Executive Officer Jose Sergio Gabrielli
said today. Cia. Energetica de  Sao Paulo , the state-controlled
power company known as Cesp, dropped after reporting a quarterly
profit decline.  The Bovespa fell 8.1 percent to 48,668.29 at the close of
Sao Paulo trading at 4:15 p.m.  New York  time, the steepest drop
since October 2008. It earlier tumbled as much as 9.7 percent.
The real weakened 2.5 percent to 1.6150 per U.S dollar.  “People are getting rid of any risky asset as the outlook
for global growth gets worse and worse,” Carlos Camacho, who
helps manage about $2.1 billion at GAP Asset Management in  Rio
de Janeiro , said in a telephone interview. “It’s not just the
U.S. downgrade itself, it’s the growing concern about the growth
outlook, especially in the U.S. and in  Europe .”  S&P lowered the U.S. long-term rating one level to AA+
after markets closed on Aug. 5 while keeping the outlook at
“negative” as the New York-based ratings company becomes less
confident that Congress will end Bush-era tax cuts or tackle
entitlements.  Global Markets  Global stocks dropped and oil declined while gold reached a
record high and Treasuries gained after S&P’s decision. Copper,
a bellwether for global growth, posted the biggest drop since
November in New York. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of
24 commodities lost as much as 4.5 percent.  The CBOE Brazil ETF Volatility Index, a gauge of the cost
of using options as insurance against declines in the iShares
MSCI  Brazil  Index exchange-traded fund, rose as much as 70
percent to a record-high 73.42.  Vale plunged 9.2 percent to 36.54 reais.  Petrobras fell 7.6 percent to 18.65 reais. The global
economic crisis and plunge in stock markets may reduce demand
for assets Petrobras is seeking to sell as part of a divestment
program, Chief Executive Officer Jose Sergio Gabrielli said
today at an event in Sao Paulo. Petrobras has stakes in more
than 100 companies, Gabrielli said. He declined to say which
stakes it may sell as part of a plan to raise $13.6 billion
through asset sales to help fund $224.7 billion in spending
through 2015.  Cesp Declines  Cesp tumbled 6.5 percent to 27.50 reais. The company said in
a filing net income declined 7.6 percent to 72.6 million reais
($45.1 million) in the second quarter from 78.5 million reais a
year earlier. Results were “weak,” Bradesco Corretora’s
analysts Vladimir Pinto and Marcelo Sa said in a note to clients
today.  The Bovespa entered a  bear market  on July 27 after plunging
20 percent from its 12-month peak in November. Today’s tumble
extended that drop to 33 percent.  While the index dropped, analysts’ share-price forecasts
have barely budged. Estimates for Brazilian equities are falling
at a slower pace than the benchmark and imply a 63 percent
increase in 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The tumble in the Bovespa index is a “correction” and not
a “crash” as Brazilian stocks approach bottom amid cheap
valuations, Banco Santander SA said.  Rebound  “We continue to expect a rebound in Brazilian equities in
the coming months, triggered by marginal improvements in the
economic indicators of developed countries,” Marcelo Audi, a
Sao Paulo-based analyst at Santander, wrote in a note to clients
today.  Brazilian stocks are falling more than other nations’
equities because they are more affected by commodities prices,
Aldo Mendes, monetary policy director at the central bank, said
in a telephone interview from Brasilia today. Mendes said the
Bovespa’s plunge is “temporary” and investors will take a
fresh look at Brazil in the medium term.  The index trades at 8.7 times analysts’ earnings estimates,
the lowest since March 2009, according to weekly data compiled
by Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 11.6 for the Shanghai
Composite Index, 6.1 for  Russia ’s Micex and 13.8 for  India ’s
Sensex.  Traders moved 9.64 billion reais in stocks today, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares to a daily average
this year of 6.36 billion reais through Aug. 3, according to
data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: David
Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  