-- 
Brazil Real Falls Most in More Than a Year After U.S. Downgrade

-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 
2011-08-08T22:11:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/brazil-rate-futures-fall-on-u-s-debt-downgrade-real-declines.html
Brazil ’s real tumbled the most in
more than a year as investor demand for riskier assets
evaporated after  Standard & Poor’s  stripped the U.S. of its top-
notch AAA credit rating.  The real slid 3.1 percent to 1.6263 per dollar, from 1.5761
on Aug. 5. The decline, the biggest among the six-most traded
Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg, was the
currency’s steepest daily drop since it weakened 3.2 percent on
May 6, 2010.  European, Asian, U.S. and Latin American stock indexes
tumbled, while gold reached a record high following S&P’s
downgrade of the U.S.’s debt one level to AA+ after trading
closed on Aug. 5. Brazil’s Bovespa stock index retreated 8.1
percent to its lowest level since April 2009. Oil fell to the
lowest level in more than eight months.  An increase in “ risk aversion ” following the U.S.
downgrade caused the real to weaken, Jorge Dib,  fund manager  at
Grau Gestao de Ativos, said in a telephone interview from  Sao
Paulo .  “It’s just a liquidation of positions, risky positions,
risky assets everywhere,” Jorge Perez-Duarte, managing director
for emerging-market foreign exchange at TD Securities Inc. in
Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “Obviously people were
exiting the market.”  Nineteen of 25 major emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg declined against the  U.S. dollar .  Yields on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contracts fell as
mounting concerns about a global economic slump fueled bets on
slower inflation in  Latin America ’s biggest economy.  ‘Winds From Abroad’  Yields on the futures contract due in January 2013 fell 26
basis points, or 0.26 percentage point, to 11.97 percent,
their biggest decline in more than two years. The yield fell 33
basis points on April 14, 2009.  The drop in rate yields shows traders are beginning to
“price in the external scenario” and anticipate that Brazilian
policy makers may cut borrowing costs, said  Newton Rosa , the
chief economist at Sul America Investimentos.  “A scenario is beginning to form where the winds from
abroad can help diminish inflation in Brazil,” he said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  President  Dilma Rousseff  said today that Brazil disagreed
with the downgrade by S&P, which slammed the U.S.’s political
process and said lawmakers failed to cut spending enough to
reduce record deficits.  Yields on the interest-rate futures contract due in January
2012, which declined eight basis points to 12.26 percent,
indicate traders anticipate the central bank may begin cutting
borrowing costs this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Rate Raises  Policy makers led by central bank President Alexandre Tombini have raised  interest rates  five times this year to tame
consumer prices, which increased by 6.87 percent in the 12
months through July, the fastest pace since 2005. They are
scheduled to meet again on Aug. 30-31.  “Risk off, pricing rate cuts, that’s just it,” Mauricio Junqueira, who helps manage about $300 million at Squanto
Investimentos, said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.
“It might be something on the radar for the next meetings.”  The drop in yields is a result of “the market moving to
adjust to a global outlook that is changing,” Aldo Mendes,
monetary policy director at the central bank, said in a
telephone interview from Brasilia. An investor “looks abroad
and sees a world with less possibilities of expanding,” he
said.  Economists lowered their 2012 inflation forecast to 5.27
percent from 5.30 percent and their 2011 forecast to 6.28
percent from 6.31 percent, according a central bank survey of
about 100 economists taken on Aug. 5 and published today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  