-- 
British House-Price Declines Eased in July on Demand, RICS Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-08-08T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/british-house-price-declines-eased-in-july-on-demand-rics-says.html
U.K. house-price declines eased in
July because of an increase in demand, and a measure of values
in London jumped to its highest level in more than a year, the
 Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors said.  The number of real-estate agents and surveyors saying
prices fell last month exceeded those seeing gains by 22
percentage points, compared with 26 percentage points in June,
the London-based group said in an e-mailed report today.
“Activity levels remain pretty flat and depressed,” RICS said.  The  property market  is failing to gain momentum as first-
time buyers struggle to afford a mortgage and inflation outpaces
wage growth. The squeeze on consumers is also hurting retailers,
with the  British Retail Consortium  warning today of a potential
“spending paralysis.”  “The U.K. housing market continued to stall during July,”
RICS spokesman Ian Perry said in a statement. “Prices edged
lower and sales levels remained subdued. The continual problem
of inaccessible mortgage finance is still preventing first time
buyers from accessing the market.”  Out of the 11 U.K. regions RICS tracks,  London  was the only
area to record an increase in values in the past three months. A
 price index  for the capital increased 9 points to 30, the
highest since May 2010.  “A continued shortage of supply, combined with strong
demand from cash rich overseas buyers, has seen the Chelsea and
Knightsbridge markets continue to rise,”  Robert Green , a real-
estate agent at John D. Wood & Co. in central London, said in
the report. “We have yet to see any significant impact from the
sovereign debt crisis, and it may fuel the market further as
buyers look for a safe place to put their money.”  Sales Decline  A measure of new buyer enquiries, an indicator of demand,
rose 4 points to 5 in July from a month earlier, while a measure
showing the number of new property listings slipped to minus 7
from zero, RICS said. In the three months through July, the
number of completed home sales per estate agent declined to a
two-year low. A gauge of price expectations for the next three
months gained to minus 13 from minus 25.  In a separate report, the BRC said same-store retail sales
rose 0.6 percent in July from a year earlier, while total sales
increased 2.5 percent. The group said consumers were “only
tempted into stores” by discounts. Taking into account
inflation and a sales-tax increase, today’s data indicate people
are “buying fewer goods,” it said.  The BRC report, which is compiled in conjunction with
accountancy firm KPMG LLP, measures changes in the actual value
of retail sales and doesn’t adjust for price changes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  