-- 
Cleveland Browns’ Lerner to Get Fund Investment Back, Delaware Judge Rules

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-08-09T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/browns-lerner-to-get-investment-in-hedge-fund-back-judge-rules.html
Billionaire  Randy Lerner , owner of
the  National Football League ’s  Cleveland Browns , won a court
order for the return of the remainder of his $40 million
investment in a hedge fund that had refused to say where the
money was invested.  Officials of  Paige Capital Management LLC , created in 2006
to buy companies that faltered during the U.S.’s economic
decline, improperly refused to return Lerner’s funds and
retained them for the “selfish reason” of generating
management fees, Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine
concluded yesterday.  “I order a remedy requiring the immediate return” of all
Lerner’s capital invested in the fund along with interest tied
to the delay in handing over the funds, Strine said in 100-page
ruling. The fund is run by Michele Paige, a former investment
manager for billionaire  Carl Icahn , along with her husband,
Christopher Paige.  William Dolan , one of the Paiges’ lawyers, didn’t
immediately return a phone call for comment yesterday on
Strine’s decision.  Lerner, former chairman of financial services company MBNA
Corp. who also owns the  English Premier League  soccer club Aston
Villa, rebuffed a March offer by the Paiges to settle the case
for about $3 million, according to court filings.  Lerner, with a fortune estimated at more than $1 billion by
Forbes magazine last year, has been forced to inject $326
million into the Birmingham-based  Aston Villa  team since he
bought it in 2006, according to filings with English regulators.  Locked Gates  The Paiges sued Lerner’s investment fund last year arguing
the billionaire was violating so-called “gate provisions” in
his investment contract. The Paiges said the agreement barred
Lerner from withdrawing his money because it amounted to more
than 20 percent of the fund’s assets under management, according
to court filings.  The fund returned about $8 million to Lerner in November
2010 under the terms of its agreement with the billionaire,
according to court filings.  Lerner countered he was the only outside investor in the
Paiges’ funds and properly requested his entire investment be
returned after a three-year “lock-up period” expired in March
2010, court filings show.  The billionaire also claimed fund officials threatened to
use litigation to keep the money under their control and
refused, until November 2010, to even say where the money was
invested, according to the filings.  ‘Bitter End’  The fund is “fully prepared to litigate this matter to the
bitter end because we will continue to manage your money, and
collect management and incentive fees, until this matter is
resolved many years hence,” Christopher Paige, the fund’s
general counsel, wrote in a March 2010  letter , according to
court filings. “You cannot win because you will spend more
litigating than we’re fighting over.”  In 2009,  Christopher Paige  had sought the Republican
nomination for a U.S. House of Representatives seat in the
Poconos section of northeastern  Pennsylvania . He dropped out of
the race in March 2010.  In the Delaware case, Strine concluded the Paiges’ refusal
to honor Lerner’s requests that his capital be returned violated
the agreements between the parties.  Also, using gating provisions to insure the continued flow
of management fees is a violation of legal duties hedge fund
managers owe to those whose money they are managing, Strine
found.  ‘Selfish Interest’  “The discretion granted to the hedge fund manager to
determine whether to waive the gates is a fiduciary authority
that must be used for the benefit of those who the hedge fund is
intended to benefit and not for the selfish interest of the
manager,” the judge said.  Lerner was chairman of Wilmington-based  MBNA , a credit-card
provider, when it was acquired by  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America in 2006 for $35 billion.  The case is Paige Capital Management LLC v. Lerner Master
Fund, 5502-VCS, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  