-- 
Buffett Bet on Stocks Before Rout by Spending Most Since 2008

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-08-08T04:01:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/buffett-bet-on-stocks-before-rout-by-spending-most-since-2008.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) , whose top three shareholdings declined by about $1.6
billion last week, disclosed its biggest quarterly purchase of
equities in almost three years.  Berkshire bought $3.62 billion of stock in the three months
ended June 30, the most since it spent $3.94 billion in the
third quarter of 2008, the Omaha, Nebraska-based company said
late Aug. 5 in a filing. Equity purchases exceeded acquisitions
of fixed-maturity securities for the first time since 2009.  Buffett, 80, turned his focus to stocks as Berkshire’s cash
swelled and  interest rates  remained near record lows. The firm’s
equity portfolio, which rose to $67.6 billion as of June 30,
suffered last week as markets plummeted. Stocks around the world
fell amid signs the  U.S. economy  was stalling and speculation
that  Europe  will fail to contain its sovereign-debt crisis.  “He’s gotta put the cash to work somewhere,” said Tom Lewandowski, an analyst with Edward Jones & Co. “We’ve seen the
market pull back, and this is the environment he likes to make
investments in.”  Transatlantic Holdings Inc. said yesterday that Berkshire
offered about $3.25 billion in a bid to break up the New York-
based reinsurer’s deal to merge with Allied World Assurance
Company Holdings AG. The equity market rout helped push down the
value of Allied’s all-stock bid by about 13 percent from the
last trading day before the June announcement through Aug. 5.  Stock Plunge  U.S. and European stocks posted the biggest weekly declines
since November 2008. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 7.2
percent, erasing its gains for the year, while the Stoxx 600
Europe Index tumbled 9.9 percent to its lowest in 13 months. The
U.S. government was stripped of its AAA credit rating by S&P on
Aug. 5 after the close of New York trading.  Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman and chief executive officer,
reported a 74 percent jump in second-quarter profit in the
filing. Cash holdings climbed 16 percent in three months to
$47.9 billion at the end of June as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
repaid Buffett’s 2008 investment. Net income of $3.42 billion
was boosted by derivative returns and earnings from the
company’s manufacturing and retailing units.  Buffett said Aug. 6 that while the market slump may hurt
confidence, the U.S. will probably avoid a recession.  “Financial markets create their own dynamics, but I don’t
think we’re facing a double-dip recession,” Buffett told
Bloomberg Television’s Betty Liu. “Clearly what stock markets
do have is an effect on confidence, and this selloff can create
a lack of confidence.”  Economic Slump  Two-year Treasury yields fell to a record low on Aug. 4 as
reports on manufacturing and consumer spending trailed
economists’ forecasts. The  European Central Bank  has signaled it
is ready to start buying Italian and Spanish securities to
counter the sovereign debt crisis. Buffett said S&P made a
mistake and the U.S. deserved a “quadruple A” rating.  Berkshire sold $200 million of equities in the three months
ended in June, the second-smallest quarterly total in more than
three years. The company spent $2.78 billion on fixed-maturity
securities.  Buffett built Berkshire over four decades by acquiring
businesses including car insurer Geico Corp. and betting on
stocks like  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  After debt markets froze in 2008,
Buffett used more than $10 billion of Berkshire’s cash to
finance New York-based Goldman Sachs, General Electric Co. and
Swiss Reinsurance Co. In 2010, he spent $26.5 billion on the
takeover of railroad Burlington Northern  Santa Fe .  ‘Recovery Bet’  Berkshire increased its stockholdings this year in firms it
labeled “commercial, industrial and other.” That portfolio was
$10.7 billion on June 30 on a cost basis, compared with $6.5
billion on Dec. 31. The “consumer products” portfolio was down
2.4 percent by that measure while holdings of “banks, insurance
and finance” were up less than 1 percent.  “That is basically a recovery bet,” Glenn Tongue, a
partner at Berkshire shareholder T2 Partners LLC, said of the
increase in the commercial and industrial portfolio. “Equities
are available today at prices where he’s almost certain to
generate an adequate rate of return.”  Coca-Cola, Berkshire’s biggest shareholding, fell 1.8
percent last week, wiping $248 million from the market value of
Buffett’s stake.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the No. 2 holding, dropped
9.8 percent, lowering Berkshire’s holding by $935 million. The
stake in  American Express Co. (AXP) , Berkshire’s third-largest
stockholding, fell by $429 million as the credit-card company’s
shares slipped 5.7 percent.  Buffett is overseeing changes to the stock portfolio after
hiring former hedge-fund manager Todd Combs last year to help
with investments. Berkshire bought  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  shares in the
first quarter, the only publicly disclosed addition to
Berkshire’s U.S. equity holdings. The company hasn’t filed its
second-quarter list of holdings yet.  Berkshire agreed in March to buy Lubrizol Corp., the
Wickliffe, Ohio-based maker of engine additives, for about $9
billion in cash. Buffett’s firm, which doesn’t pay a dividend,
uses earnings and premiums from insurance units to fund
investments and acquisitions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  