-- 
Bulk Buying Would Ease Home Crisis, Morgan Stanley Analysts Say

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-08-08T13:15:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/bulk-buying-would-ease-u-s-housing-crisis-morgan-stanley-analysts-say.html
Encouraging investors to buy
foreclosed homes in bulk would help shrink the U.S. housing
surplus, stabilize property prices and provide affordable
rentals,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  housing analysts said in a report today.  The collapse of the U.S. residential real estate market
triggered the recession in 2007 and has stifled an economic
recovery, according to the study. Incentives such as tax breaks
and eased lending terms are needed to encourage more investors
to purchase repossessed homes, repair them and rent the
properties at affordable rates to people who can’t afford to buy
a house, analysts led by Oliver Chang wrote.  “What’s important to do is help clear the backlog as
quickly as possible with as little detriment to home prices as
possible,” Chang, head of housing strategy in Morgan Stanley’s
research division, said in a telephone interview. “The goal
here isn’t to help investors. The goal is to provide quality,
affordable housing.”  Housing prices in 20 major U.S. cities have fallen 33
percent from their July 2006 peak, according to the S&P/Case-
Shiller index. More than one in four homeowners with a mortgage
owe more than their property is worth, Zillow Inc. figures show.  Chang, who wrote the report with New York-based Morgan
Stanley housing analysts Vishwanath Tirupattur and James Egan,
predicted in March 2009 that U.S.  home prices  hadn’t yet reached
bottom, a forecast borne out by the S&P/Case-Shiller data.  There are about 2.2 million vacant homes available for sale
in the U.S., and 7.5 million homes facing foreclosure that would
add to the excess housing supply, causing values to drop
further, the Morgan Stanley analysts wrote.  Homeownership Rate Declines  The homeownership rate fell to 65.9 percent as of June 30,
the lowest level in 13 years, from a high of 69.2 percent in
June 2004, the Commerce Department reported July 29. The
effective homeownership rate would drop below 60 percent if
delinquent buyers who are expected to lose their houses to
foreclosure are removed from the total, Chang estimated in a
July 20 report.  While loan modifications and other methods to help keep
current owners in their homes should remain a government
priority, those programs can’t help everyone, he said.  About 2 million households are likely to receive
foreclosure filings this year, according to RealtyTrac Inc., an
Irvine, California-based data provider.  “Mortgage credit remains tight, making home purchases more
difficult, while rental demand is accelerating, causing rents to
rise quickly,” Chang and the other Morgan Stanley analysts said
in today’s report. “If nothing is done soon, we will find
ourselves in a situation where owner-occupied housing becomes
unobtainable due to lack of credit, while rental housing becomes
unobtainable due to rising costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 