-- 
Buy Japan’s Exporters and Trading Houses, Nomura’s Iwasawa Says

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-08-08T06:26:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/buy-japan-s-exporters-and-trading-houses-nomura-s-iwasawa-says.html
Investors should buy Japan’s trading
companies and  auto-industry manufacturers as global equities
slump after the U.S. debt-rating cut by  Standard & Poor’s ,
according to Seiichiro Iwasawa, Nomura Holdings Inc.’s chief
equity strategist. He spoke on a conference call today.  Standard & Poor’s lowered the U.S. government’s AAA credit
rating on Aug. 5 by one level to AA+ in response to the deal
that President  Barack Obama  and lawmakers reached to raise the
federal $14.3 trillion debt limit. The credit-rating cut was
announced after markets closed in  New York .  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average slumped as much as 2.6
percent today, headed for its biggest two-day decline since
March. It fell 5.4 percent last week. The broader Topix index
fell 2.3 percent as of the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo, with shares in
the gauge trading at about 0.9 times estimated book value.  On investment strategy, market outlook:  “The market downside risk from this point is not too
large.”  “The price-to-book ratio of Japanese equities is already
less than 1.0, and the Bank of  Japan ’s direct supportive action
for the equity market is ongoing.”  “My recommended strategy is to take a look at the timing
of the global market calming down in response to policy actions,
and look for the buying opportunities in the exporters area that
was dumped down last week,”  “We can then find a number of attractive stocks in auto or
auto-related stocks. Japan’s auto sector has a recovery story
which is supply driven, independent of what is happening to the
global economy.”  “Buying trading companies, which is widely considered a
commodity play in Japan, might be interesting at this point of
time” as there is speculation of another round of stimulus from
the U.S.  On the yen:  The yen traded at 77.80 against the dollar at 3 p.m. in
 Tokyo . The government is ready to sell yen again following last
week’s move if it sees speculative trades driving the currency
higher, Vice Finance Minister Fumihiko Igarashi said on a
television program of public broadcaster NHK yesterday.  Group of Seven authorities will “cooperate as
appropriate” on actions in the  currency markets  as disorderly
moves may cause economic damage, officials said in a statement
after a conference call today.  “The biggest impact on Japan’s equity market from global
market things, including the downgrade of U.S. bonds by the S&P,
comes from the currency market.”  “The pressure of higher yen is likely to remain in the
near term. But the Japanese government’s unilateral intervention
will prevent the yen from appreciating a lot. More policy
responses are likely to come sooner or later.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  