-- 
California Democrats Move Closer to Tax-Increase Majority in Redistricting

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-08-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/california-democrats-move-closer-to-tax-increase-majority-in-redistricting.html
Democrats in  California  may move
closer to the two-thirds legislative majority required for tax
increases, unfettered by the need for Republican agreement,
under proposed new political districts.  The  boundaries  were drawn for the first time by the
 California Citizens Redistricting Commission , 14 political
outsiders, taking work previously done by lawmakers. The maps
won preliminary approval July 29; a final vote is Aug. 15.  Democrats in the most populous U.S. state are short of two-
thirds control in the Assembly and state Senate by two votes in
each chamber. The margin was enough for Republicans to block tax
and fee extensions sought by Democratic Governor  Jerry Brown ,
depriving the state of more than $9 billion in revenue and
forcing cuts to universities and other programs.  “There are certainly more competitive districts at play
under the new map,” said  Douglas M. Johnson , a redistricting
specialist at the Rose Institute of State and Local Government
at  Claremont McKenna College  in Claremont, California. “It
doesn’t look like the Democrats will be assured a two-thirds
majority in the Assembly in particular; it does look like they
will have two-thirds in the Senate.”  Most of the Legislature’s work needs only simple majorities
to pass. Proposition 13, the 1978 ballot initiative that capped
property levies, changed the requirement for tax increases to a
so-called supermajority.  Senate President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg, a Sacramento
Democrat, said he expects more compromise-inclined Republicans
to emerge from the redistricting. The redrawn districts may
force some politicians out of ideological comfort zones, said
Matt Rexroad, a Republican political consultant.  “There’s no doubt that this redistricting process will
have an impact on policy,” Rexroad said in a telephone
interview.  Primary Voting Change  At the same time, Californians will also be able to vote in
primaries for candidates of the opposite party, and the top two
primary finishers will run against one another in the general
election, regardless of party affiliation.  “It’s going to be very hard to isolate how much moderation
is the result of the top-two primary and how much is the result
of this redistricting process,” Rexroad said. “I think we will
see a couple of good upsets in California, which should moderate
things a little.”  As of February, 44 percent of California voters were
registered as Democrats, 31 percent as Republicans and 5 percent
with other parties, according to  data  from the secretary of
state’s office. Twenty percent had no preference.  Democratic Majority  In the state Legislature, 64 percent of lawmakers are
Democrats and 36 percent are Republicans. None are from minor
parties. California’s Legislature has the ninth-highest
proportion of Democrats in the country, according to  data  from
the  National Conference of State Legislatures .  California Republican Party Chairman Tom Del Beccaro said
the party is considering a legal or initiative challenge to the
redrawn district maps.  “I think this has raised the stakes of one-party rule in
the Senate,” he said by telephone. “I am concerned that the
new lines have moved the political center of gravity even if the
demographics don’t justify it.”  The redistricting commission, created under a 2008
 initiative , disregarded partisan politics in drawing the new
districts, said  Connie Galambos Malloy , who served as chairwoman
the day the new lines were approved and isn’t registered with
any political party. Rather, the panel considered demographics,
geography and history, she said.  California’s approach to redrawing political boundaries
“is completely unique and novel in the  United States  and the
world for that matter,” said  Tim Storey , a senior fellow at the
state legislatures organization.  Although 12 other states have commissions to set
legislative districts, only California excludes political
insiders and requires a supermajority of commissioners to
approve district lines, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story: James Nash in Sacramento
at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  