-- 
Canary Wharf Group Plans to Construct Tower, Agrees to Rent Half the Space

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-08-08T15:01:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/canary-wharf-group-plans-to-construct-tower-agrees-to-rent-half-the-space.html
Canary Wharf  Group Plc plans to build
a 20-story tower in  London ’s second-largest financial district
and will lease half the space to the European Medicines Agency.  The building at 25 Churchill Place in Canary Wharf will
have more than 500,000 square feet (46,000 square meters) of
space,  Songbird Estates Plc (SBD)  said today in a statement. Songbird
is Canary Wharf Group’s largest shareholder with a 69 percent
stake. Construction is due to start in the fourth quarter.  “There’s likely to be a tightening of supply in offices in
2013 to 2015 just because there hasn’t been a lot of new build
in the central London,” John Garwood, Canary Wharf’s group
company secretary, said in an interview.  The European Medicines Agency, which evaluates drugs in
development, will occupy the first nine floors of the building
with a rent of 46.50 pounds ($76.40) a square foot from January
2015. The lease is for 25 years and the agency has an option to
take four more floors. The EMA, already based in the district,
will receive a 37-month rent-free period.  CB Richard Ellis Group
Inc. (CBG)  and Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. advised Canary Wharf Group.  Canary Wharf owns of 17 of the 35 buildings in the east
London business district. It’s benefited from a revival in
office values and rents as demand for space by financial
companies has grown since the end of the global recession in
2009.  ‘Tightening’  The cost of leasing the remaining space in the building is
likely to rise as demand for  office space  outstrips supply,
Garwood said by phone.  “We aren’t in a hurry to make the lettings,” he said.
“We’ve got three-and-a-bit years and we think the market will
be tightening, so we’re hopeful of getting some improved rental
figures.”  The EMA won’t pay for the building’s construction and hopes
that the cost of relocation will be offset by savings made at
the new site over the first 10 years of the tenancy, the agency
said in a  statement  on its website.  The tower is the “final piece in the jigsaw” of Canary
Wharf’s original development plan, which has taken about 23
years to complete, spokesman Lewis Clark said by phone. The
building’s architects are Kohn Pedersen Fox Associates.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., which employs more than 11,000 people
in the U.K. capital, is moving to Canary Wharf in 2012 from the
 City of London , joining firms such as HSBC Holdings Plc, Credit
Suisse Group AG and Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 