-- 
Carbon Mostly Ignoring Any Bullish Indicators, New Energy Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-08-08T13:13:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/carbon-mostly-ignoring-any-bullish-indicators-new-energy-says.html
European Union carbon permits are
less correlated with increases in energy prices, equities and
the euro than they were with declines, according to Bloomberg
New Energy Finance.  Analysts at New Energy Finance including Clemens Tummeltshammer in  London  averaged the daily price movement of a
basket of benchmarks containing energy prices, equity indexes
and the euro for the past eight weeks. The correlation was 10
percent on days when prices rose and 48 percent on down days,
they said in an e-mailed research note dated today.  “Carbon has followed the bearish indicators in other
markets, but failed to respond to any bullish signals,” the
analysts said. “Any weakness in global macroeconomics compounds
the existing weakness of the EU emissions trading system,”
which is oversupplied until 2017 after taking into account
estimates of available  United Nations  offset credits.  Even without a second recession in Europe, output of
greenhouse gas emissions is likely to stay “relatively stable”
over the next nine years, the analysts said.  EU allowances for December delivery were down 3 cents at
10.68 euros ($15.23) at 12:29 p.m. on the ICE Futures  Europe 
Exchange in London after falling to 10.25 euros, the lowest
price since Feb. 24, 2009. The contract has declined 11 percent
in August.  Prices may fall as low as 10.20 euros a ton this week and
rise as high as 11.50 euros, New Energy Finance analysts said.  “It may take more than a short-term recovery in global
equity markets for EU-allowance prices to reverse their bearish
trend,” they said. EU-allowance prices have ignored “many
bullish signals over the past eight weeks, instead being driven
by downward indicators. The fundamental over-supply over the
coming years is weighing down on the current market, which has
become increasingly short-term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  