-- 
Carlyle Nursing Unit to Appeal $91.5 Million Medical Negligence Verdict

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 
2011-08-08T20:30:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/carlyle-nursing-home-subsidiary-to-appeal-91-5-million-jury-verdict.html
The  Carlyle Group  nursing home
subsidiary, HCR ManorCare Inc., will appeal a $91.5 million
verdict awarded to a man whose mother spent 20 days in a home
before dying in a hospital.  Dorothy Douglas of Barboursville, West Virginia, suffered
dehydration and renal failure before dying, her son Tom Douglas
claimed in his 2009 lawsuit filed in state court in Charleston,
West Virginia. Dorothy Douglas, 87, suffered from dementia and
 Parkinson’s disease .  The jury on Aug. 5 found that Manor Care Inc., the unit
owned by HCR ManorCare, was medically negligent in its care,
according to the jury verdict form.  Douglas’s lawyers said the Charleston nursing home was
understaffed and the home’s administrators knew it.  “Although the incident in question occurred two years ago,
we feel that the center and staff acted appropriately in
providing the proper care for this resident,” HCR ManorCare
said in an e-mailed statement. “In addition we believe this
center was staffed above the state requirements at the time in
question.”  Spokeswoman Julie Beckert didn’t say on what grounds the
company will appeal.  Mike Fuller, a partner in McHugh Fuller, whose lawyers
tried the case, said they won a $1.5 million verdict for
compensatory damages in a similar HCR lawsuit last year
targeting the same Charleston facility. The case settled for a
confidential amount before the jury decided how much to award,
if anything, in punitive damages.  HCR ManorCare didn’t confirm the settlement.  “Due to our confidentiality provisions, we can’t comment
on previously settled cases,” Beckert said.  The case is 10-C-952, Circuit Court of Kanawha County,  West
Virginia  (Charleston).  Editor: Mary Romano  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 