-- 
Caveman Zezva’s 1.8-Million-Year Grin Forces Rewrite of History

-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 
2011-08-08T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/caveman-zezva-has-1-8-million-year-grin-forces-georgia-to-rewrite-history.html
The history of human evolution needs
to be rewritten.  This is the view of David Lordkipanidze, who claims his
discovery of the bones of a couple known as Zezva and Mzia puts
the Black Sea country of Georgia at the center of the
archaeological world.  The small-brained apelike creatures lived in the area at
least 1.75 million years ago, making them the first proven
residents of Europe and  Asia , says Lordkipanidze. The find has
thrown into question the theory that the first hominids to
disperse from Africa were homo erectus, a species with large
brains and bodies approaching human size.  “Now the news is that we have found stone tools,” says
Lordkipanidze, the Georgian National Museum’s director. “Stone
and bone samples are older than any other findings, proving
we’ve had human presence in Georgia from at least 1.85 million
years or more.”  The 49-year-old professor remains calm about the discovery,
sitting in his office wearing a blue shirt and denims. The news
is supported by 10 experts who have written a report to the
National Academy of Science, he says. Lordkipanidze is also
dismissive of skeptics who say the announcement is only intended
to help  Georgia  to become a bigger tourist destination and
global hub for archaeology.  The nation of 4.6 million people on the Silk Road has been
trying to restore its economy after it fought a five-day war in
2008 over the breakaway Georgian region of  South Ossetia . The
Georgian government forecasts as many as 3 million tourist
visits this year, rising to 5 million by 2015.  Human Jaw  Lordkipanidze’s room is bright and modest. Shelves are full
of memorabilia of the findings from near the village of Dmanisi,
southwest of the capital Tbilisi and near the Armenian border.  An international team found the first human jaw there in
1991. Between then and 2007, fossils from as many as six
individuals have been found at the same site. Three are being
reconstructed by artists -- Zezva and Mzia (typical old-
fashioned Georgian names) and their possible offspring of a
teenage female. The skulls can be covered with flesh and hair to
give them simian smiles and protruding jaws. The excavations are
funded by Georgia’s government and companies including BP Plc
and Rolex Group.  National Geographic magazine, and Science, have both put
Zezva and Mzia on their covers, noting that they hold the key to
human evolution. Perhaps early humans took a detour into Eurasia
before an epic journey out of  Africa .  “Dmanisi humans are either the first representatives of
homo erectus,” says Lordkipanidze. “Or ancestors of homo
erectus.”  Tiger Skulls  These people were about 1.4 meters (4 feet 9 inches) tall,
with small brains and legs more developed than their arms,
showing that they were good runners. They lived alongside
predators like saber-toothed tigers, whose skulls were also
found.  “Their main lifestyle was to compete with big and
dangerous animals,” Lordkipanidze says. “They lived in groups
and they were taking care of each other.” They were on a site
totaling no more than 10 square meters and their death was
mostly natural.  Lordkipanidze’s  museum’s  collection dates back to 1852.
After the Rose revolution in 2003, it was re-established the
following year by a presidential decree. It unifies the Soviet
Occupation Museum, the archives of the Ministry of State
Security and Internal Affairs of Georgia, and the golden
treasury, including objects from the ancient kingdom of Colchis
from Vani, known as the destination of Jason and the Argonauts
in their quest for the Golden Fleece.  Excavations continue at Dmanisi, while only 10 percent of
the historical site has been explored, Lordkipanidze says.  “The world should know that we are preserving a world
heritage, not just ours,” Lordkipanidze says. “It’s highly
educational and has huge tourism potential.”  Information:  http://www.museum.ge/web_page/   To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 