-- 
CCB’s Zhao Sees Yen, Singapore Dollar as Haven, No Equity Panic

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-08-08T00:44:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/ccb-s-zhao-sees-yen-singapore-dollar-as-haven-no-equity-panic.html
James Zhao, chief investment officer
in the international investment department of CCB Principal
Asset Management Co. in Beijing, comments on the U.S. credit
rating downgrade and the implications for Asian stocks and
currencies. CCB manages 45 billion yuan ($7 billion) of assets.  The MSCI World Index of stocks fell to the weakest level
since November last week. Futures on the S&P 500 Stock Index
fell 2.4 percent to 1,169 as of 7:38 a.m. in Tokyo.  Standard &
Poor’s  cut America’s top credit rating by one level to AA+ on
Aug. 5. The  European Central Bank  said yesterday it will
“actively implement” its bond-purchase program to prevent a
crisis from spreading.  “The initial reaction could be for the markets to go down.
U.S. Treasury bonds may go up as investor look for safe haven to
park their money while demand gold will also continue to be
strong for sure. For equity investors, I don’t expect to see
widespread panic after the initial reaction.  “U.S. double-dip, China’s inflation and European fiscal
debt dilemma will all have a huge impact on cyclical views. The
important thing is that, the U.S. rating downgrade has been
expected, discounted and people have little alternatives.  “Investors expect policy interventions to preempt any
free-fall in financial markets. These include the speculated
QE3, Europe debt consolidation and possibly a moderation in
 China ’s monetary tightening and fiscal tightening after
inflation pressure peaked.  “Among Asian currencies, perhaps the yen and the  Singapore
dollar  will benefit, while the offshore yuan in  Hong Kong  is
still not a very liquid market for international investors.
Emerging-market economies, especially China, still enjoy better
growth prospects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  