-- 
McDonald’s July Same-Store Sales Rise 5.1% on Gains in China

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-08-08T20:15:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/mcdonald-s-july-same-store-sales-rise-5-1-.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest
restaurant chain, said sales at stores open at least 13 months
rose 5.1 percent in July as Chinese consumers dined out more.  Analysts projected a gain of 4.7 percent, the average of
five estimates compiled by Bloomberg News. Sales in the U.S.
advanced 4.4 percent, the Oak Brook, Illinois-based company said
today in a statement. That trailed analysts’ estimates for a 4.9
percent increase.  Chief Executive Officer James Skinner may open as many as
200 stores in China this year to compete with Yum! Brands Inc.’s
KFC and Pizza Hut chains. The company also may introduce its
McCafe smoothie and beverage lineup around the world, Chief
Operating Officer Donald Thompson said last month.  “McCafe is a huge opportunity for them in  China ,” said
Peter Saleh, a restaurant analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in
 New York . McDonald’s is “gaining market share,” he said.  McDonald’s sales rose 5.3 percent in Europe and 4 percent
in  Asia ,  Africa  and the  Middle East . Analysts were expecting
growth of 6.1 percent in Europe and 1.9 percent in Asia, Africa
and the Middle East. Same-store sales in  Japan  fell 3.8 percent
last month, the company reported earlier.  McDonald’s fell $2.97, or 3.5 percent, to $82.11 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The restaurant had
gained 11 percent this year before today.  U.S. Sales  In the U.S., McCafe drinks and Chicken McNuggets fueled
July sales, the company said. The U.S. same-store sales gain in
July was the second-biggest monthly increase since November,
trailing only June’s 6.9 percent gain.  Last month, McDonald’s said it expects 2011 commodity
inflation will be as much as 4.5 percent in the U.S. and  Europe .
During the second quarter, restaurant margin at the chain’s
company-operated stores narrowed to 19 percent from 19.9 percent
a year earlier. Food prices may rise as much as 4 percent in the
U.S. this year, the U.S. Department of Agriculture  predicts .  “Everybody is raising prices,” Saleh said. “The question
is, ‘Can they raise prices today and see their traffic hold six
to eight months down the road?’”  June comparable-store sales increased 7.7 percent globally.
Comparable, or same-store, sales are considered a key measure of
a company’s growth because they exclude store openings and
closings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  