-- 
Central Bankers Confront Decision on Which Risk Scares Them Most

-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-08-08T03:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/central-bankers-confront-decision-on-which-economic-risk-scares-them-most.html
Central bankers from the U.S. to
 China  may have to decide which is their worst nightmare: the
Great Inflation of the 1970s or Great Depression of the 1930s.  As stock markets slump worldwide and the global economy
sputters, monetary-policy makers are struggling to come up with
new strategies to spur growth. The catch is that they risk
adding to price pressures if they pump more money into the
financial system as inflation climbs.  It’s what “are you most scared of” -- the risk of
spiraling prices or a plunging economy, said  Vincent Reinhart ,
who was the Federal Reserve’s chief monetary-policy strategist
from 2001 until 2007 and is now a resident scholar at the
American Enterprise Institute in Washington.  The answer to that question will help determine which way
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his peers in Europe and Asia
choose to tilt policy in the coming months.  Finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of
Seven nations said in a statement today they are committed to
“take all necessary measures to support financial stability and
growth” after last week’s turbulence in equity markets.  If officials err by easing too much and inflation takes off,
bond prices will suffer. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note
rose to 10.3 percent at the end of 1979 from 7.9 percent at the
start of the 1970s as inflation more than doubled to over 13
percent.  Treasuries Unfazed  The yield was 2.56 percent as of 11:40 a.m. in  Tokyo ,
little changed even after  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded its AAA
credit rating on the U.S. by one level to AA+. Investors in
Treasuries earned 3.12 percent in the three months ending July
31, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  If central bankers keep policy too tight and their
economies relapse into recessions, stock prices will slump as
earnings fall. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  dropped almost
40 percent in the 1930s during the Depression.  Bernanke and his colleagues on the Federal Open Market
Committee meet tomorrow to plot strategy against an economic
backdrop that looks a lot like a year ago.  Growth is weak, with expansion at a less than 1 percent
annual pace in the first half of the year, its worst performance
since 2009. The  unemployment rate  is back above 9 percent, after
dipping below that level in February and March. And the equity
market is sagging again, with the S&P 500 Stock Index capping
the biggest weekly slump since November 2008 on Aug. 5.  ‘Doing Too Little’  “There is a one-in-three chance that we’re going to go
into recession,” said Lawrence Summers, former director of
President Barack Obama’s National Economic Council who is now a
professor at  Harvard University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .
“Although it’s not clear how much impact the Fed can have, the
risks are much more on the side of them doing too little than on
the side of them doing too much.”  When confronted with that kind of danger a year ago,
Bernanke used his Aug. 27 speech at the Fed’s annual conference
in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , to pave the way for a second round of
bond purchases by the central bank, known as quantitative easing.  He isn’t likely to respond in the same way at tomorrow’s
meeting, according to  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York .  “There is almost no chance that the Fed initiates another
round of large-scale asset purchases” this week, Feroli said in
an Aug. 5 note to clients.  The FOMC instead may alter the language of the statement it
issues after the meeting to signal that it will keep monetary
policy easier for longer, he said.  Rising Prices  What’s different now is that inflation and inflation
expectations are higher than they were a year ago. Consumer
prices rose at a year-over-year rate of 3.6 percent in June,
more than triple the 1.1 percent pace last August.  Levi Strauss & Co., the closely held maker of blue jeans
and Dockers pants based in San Francisco, reported that it
increased prices in the first three months of the year as cotton
costs soared.  “Inflation complicates Bernanke’s decision-making about
launching QE3,” said Brian Bethune, visiting economics
professor at Amherst College in Massachusetts. “That’s what’s
likely to hold the Fed back for now. That could change later if
the economy weakens,” he added. “It’s a very tricky situation
for the Fed.”  Bernanke’s quandary is complicated by differences among Fed
policy makers over how much leeway they have to aid the economy
and how much of a risk they face from faster inflation.  No More ‘Ammunition’  Richard Fisher, president of the  Federal Reserve  Bank of
Dallas, said July 13 that the central bank has exhausted its
“ammunition” with which to spur growth. Eight days later,
Charles Evans, who heads the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago,
said he’d support another round of bond purchases if
“circumstances called for that.”  The Fed is under pressure to do more as fiscal policy
tightens. Obama signed a compromise on Aug. 2 that raises the
nation’s debt ceiling until 2013 and pledges $2.4 trillion in
deficit cuts during the next 10 years.  The agreement, which came after months of wrangling with
Congress, wasn’t enough to stop S&P from its downgrade, after
warning on July 14 that it would reduce the U.S. rating in the
absence of a “credible” plan to lower deficits, even if the
nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit was lifted.  European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet faces
problems similar to Bernanke’s: a divided policy-making council
at a time of worsening trade-offs between inflation and growth
as governments adopt austerity measures.  Crisis Containment  The ECB decided last week to hold borrowing costs steady
after raising its benchmark rate twice to 1.5 percent this year,
and said it will lend euro-region banks as much money as they
need for six months while the region tries to contain a
government-debt crisis that is almost two years old.  The central bank also resumed its purchases of  government
bonds  after Italian and Spanish yields soared to euro-era
records. While council members were unanimous in keeping rates
on hold, a minority opposed reinstating the bond-buying program
after a four-month hiatus, Trichet indicated Aug. 4.  The purchases failed to immediately quell the turmoil in
European financial markets, as the ECB limited its buying to the
debt of Portugal and Ireland, refusing to take on securities
from Italy and Spain. On Aug. 7, the ECB signaled it was ready
to start buying the bonds of these two countries.  ECB’s Shift  In a statement issued in Trichet’s name after an emergency
Governing Council conference call, the Frankfurt-based ECB
welcomed efforts by Italy and Spain to reduce their budget
deficits, and said it will “actively implement” its bond-
purchase program.  There are signs the debt crisis is starting to weigh on
confidence in core countries such as  Germany . Investor sentiment
in the region’s largest economy dropped to a two-and-a-half-year
low last month and business confidence also waned.  Siemens AG (SIE) ,
BASF AG and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , three of Germany’s biggest companies,
all reported earnings last month that missed analyst estimates.  Expansion in the euro region probably slowed in the second
quarter from 0.8 percent in the previous three months, Trichet
told reporters on Aug. 4. The downside risks to the economic
outlook have “intensified,” he added.  The threats to inflation, meanwhile, remain on the upside,
he said. At 2.5 percent in July, inflation is above the ECB’s 2
percent ceiling.  China’s Balancing Act  China faces a similar balancing act in its decisions about
monetary policy. The economy is slowing, partly because of past
increases in  interest rates . A purchasing managers’ index
compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics fell in July
to the lowest level since March 2009.  “Growth has decelerated in the face of the global soft
patch in export demand and the weight of tightening,” said
David Cohen, an economist at Action Economics Ltd. in Singapore.  At the same time, inflation remains elevated. Consumer
prices in the world’s second-largest economy rose 6.4 percent in
July from a year earlier, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 25 economists. That would match June’s
increase, the biggest since 2008. Data are due Aug. 9.  While consumer-price gains may have peaked in June and July,
inflation isn’t likely to fall “significantly” until the
fourth quarter, said Li Wei, a Shanghai-based economist for
Standard Chartered Bank. Another of the bank’s analysts, Hong
Kong-based Stephen Green, said that policy is likely “on hold”
and “Beijing will have some space to loosen a little by the end
of the third quarter.”  Slow Recoveries  Recoveries from financial crises like the one the U.S. and
the world suffered through in 2008-2009 historically have been
slow because it takes time to work off the debts built up during
the boom years, said  Carmen Reinhart , senior fellow at the
Peterson Institute for International Economics in  Washington .  “When we have the kind of combination of sub-par growth,
stubbornly high unemployment and a big debt overhang, you need
low interest rates,” said Reinhart, who co-wrote the book
“This Time is Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly”
with Harvard professor Kenneth Rogoff.  “If I had to err, I would err on the side of ease,” added
Reinhart, whose husband, Vincent, worked at the Fed. “The ‘30s
was a lot uglier than the ‘70s.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  