-- 
Charles Wyly, Michaels Stores Co-Founder, Dies

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 
2011-08-08T15:53:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/charles-wyly-michaels-stores-co-founder-dies-in-car-collision.html
Charles Wyly, a co-founder of the
Michaels Stores Inc. retail chain and major donor to Republican
campaigns who was fighting fraud and insider-trading accusations
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, has died
following a car accident in western  Colorado . He was 77.  He was turning onto a highway near the local airport when
his Porsche was hit by a sport-utility vehicle yesterday, the
 Associated Press  reported, citing a statement by the Colorado
State Patrol. Wyly died at Aspen Valley Hospital.  Wyly and his younger brother, Sam, 76, each served as
chairman of Irving, Texas-based Michaels Stores, which sells
arts and crafts in more than 1,000 outlets around the U.S. and
 Canada . In 2006, Bain Capital LLC and the Blackstone Group
acquired Michaels in a transaction valued at $6 billion.  The Wyly family fortune was also built on expanding and
selling the Bonanza and Ponderosa steakhouse chains, Green
Mountain Energy Co. and Sterling Software Inc.  The SEC, in a complaint filed in July 2010 after a six-year
investigation, accused the brothers of using “an elaborate sham
system of trusts and subsidiary companies” in the  Isle of Man 
and  Cayman Islands  over 13 years to hide their ownership of
stock in four public companies on whose boards they sat,
including Michaels Stores. In March, the brothers lost a bid to
have the lawsuit dismissed. The SEC has been seeking to impose
penalties and to force the Wylys to turn over $550 million the
agency claims they made from the alleged scheme.  Dallas Home  “My reputation is more important to me than anything,”
Charles Wyly told the New York Times last year. “To the extent
that people are bombarded with information, they might have the
wrong impression.”  His 11,000-square-foot home in the Dallas neighborhood of
Preston Hollow was known for its ritzy parties, a backyard
conservatory and a personal chef who once served British
royalty, the  Dallas  Morning News reported today.  Unlike his brother, Charles didn’t crack Forbes magazine’s
lists of wealthiest Americans. Forbes  dropped  Sam Wyly from its
list of billionaires this year after estimating his net worth at
$1 billion in 2010.  Charles Wyly contributed more than $1 million to federal
candidates and political parties since 1989, according to the
Washington-based Center for Responsive Politics.  He raised more than $100,000 for former President  George W.
Bush ’s 2000 campaign. With his brother, he funded Republicans
for Clean Air, which did not initially disclose its donors as it
aired advertisements for Bush and against rival Senator  John
McCain  of  Arizona  during the 2000 primary election campaign.  Support for Perry  Republican Governor  Rick Perry  of  Texas  received more than
$300,000 from the Wyly brothers since 2000, AP said, citing
Texas Ethics Commission reports.  The Wyly brothers and their wives gave $20 million to help
build the AT&T Performing Arts Center in Dallas.  Charles Wyly was born in 1933 and raised in rural
Louisiana. He and his brother, born in 1934, worked for their
parents’ weekly newspaper, the Delhi Dispatch in Delhi,
Louisiana, the Dallas Morning News reported today, citing an
interview with Sam Wyly.  “I would say that he sought the truth,” Sam said of his
late brother, according to the newspaper. “He saw every other
individual as a child of God, as he did himself. He didn’t take
offense to anything, even when people meant to be offensive. It
was an amazing quality to have.”  According to an online  biography , Charles Wyly earned a
degree in business administration from  Louisiana  Tech
University. He worked eight years at International Business
Machines Corp.  From 1964 to 1977, he held positions including president of
University Computing Co., a computer software company, in
various capacities including president from 1969 to 1973.  He was a founder and served as vice chairman for 16 years
of Sterling Software. He also was a founder of Maverick Capital,
Ltd., an investment management firm. He was a co-founder and
former chairman of Earth Resources Co., an oil refining and
mining company.  He and his wife, Dee, had four children and seven
grandchildren.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at   cstevens@bloomberg.net  