-- 
Chilean Breakeven, Peso Plunge as U.S. Cut Fans Growth Concerns

-- B y   B r y a n   G i b e l   a n d   J a m e s   A t t w o o d
-- 
2011-08-08T18:40:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/chilean-peso-declines-most-in-seven-months-on-copper-s-drop.html
Chilean inflation expectations fell
to the lowest level in nine months, while the country’s currency
and stocks tumbled, on signs of faltering global growth and
easing domestic price increases.  Chile ’s two-year breakeven inflation slumped to 2.87
percent at 2:12 p.m. New York time, falling below the 3 percent
mid-point of the central bank’s inflation target for the first
time since Oct. 12. The peso plunged 1.6 percent against the
dollar as slumping copper prices signaled a diminished  trade
surplus  for the world’s biggest producer of the metal.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 5 percent and copper
dropped 3.7 percent as concern deepened that S&P’s downgrade of
the U.S. credit rating may worsen the economic slowdown, eroding
commodity demand. Inflation in Chile fell to the lowest level
this year, a report showed today, bolstering prospects that
policy makers will keep  interest-rates  on hold again this month.  “With this global environment, we are probably going to
have a deceleration in Chile, and the market is betting that the
central bank will leave interest rates unchanged at the next
meeting to keep the economy from contracting more and to take
pressure off the peso,” Cristian Donoso, a trader at Banchile
Corredora de Bolsa, said in a telephone interview from Santiago.  Two-year breakeven, a measure of traders’ expectations of
average future price rises, slumped from 3.05 percent yesterday.
The central bank targets annual inflation of 3 percent with a 1
percentage point margin of error over two years.  Peso Weakens  The peso weakened to 472.52 per  U.S. dollar  from 465.17 on
Aug. 5, the steepest decline since the central bank announced a
$12 billion dollar-buying program in January. Chile’s benchmark
stock index tumbled 5.8 percent to 3,829.10, its biggest loss
since October 2008. The gauge has fallen five days in a row,
reaching its lowest in 14 months.  “At one point people were saying that emerging currencies
like the Chilean peso were in a position to benefit if there was
an external crisis,” Donoso said. “Now we’re seeing that’s not
true and the deterioration we saw last week with strong plunges
in global stocks and an important contraction in commodities
like copper is finally hitting the Latin American currencies.”  Chile’s consumer prices climbed 0.1 percent from June, the
smallest increase this year, the National Statistics Institute
said in a report today. The median estimate of 15 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was 0.2 percent. Annual inflation was 2.9
percent, matching forecasts, while core consumer prices, which
exclude fuel and produce, rose 0.2 percent in July from June.  Growth Eases  Inflation and economic growth in Chile is easing after
policy makers raised lending costs at 12 of their past 14
monthly meetings. The central bank kept rates unchanged at 5.25
percent last month amid a “highly uncertain” global outlook,
according to minutes of the meeting in which a quarter-point
increase was discussed.  Chile’s one-year interest-rate swap rate, which reflects
traders’ views of future rates, tumbled 23 basis points, or 0.23
percentage point, to 5.07 percent. It has declined for eight
straight days, the longest losing streak since November 2009.  Chilean policy makers will keep rates unchanged at their
Aug. 18 meeting before raising to 5.5 percent by November and
5.75 percent by February, according to a survey of investors and
traders published July 27 on the central bank website.  “In terms of monetary policy, we believe the best option
is to hold, as well as moving to a neutral from a tightening
bias,” analysts at the brokerage unit of Banco de Credito &
Inversiones wrote in an e-mailed note today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bryan Gibel in New York at 
 bgibel@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood in Santiago at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  