-- 
China Vanke’s First-Half Profit Rises 5.9% on Home Sales in Smaller Cities

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-09T07:43:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/china-vanke-profit-climbs-as-small-city-demand-drives-sales.html
China Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest
developer by market value, said first-half profit climbed 5.9
percent as it sold more homes in smaller cities that were immune
to government curbs targeting metropolitan areas.  Net income increased to 2.98 billion yuan ($460 million),
or 0.27 yuan a share, in the six months ended June, from 2.81
billion yuan, or 0.26 yuan, a year earlier, the company said in
a filing to the Shenzhen stock exchange yesterday. Revenue
increased 19 percent to 20 billion yuan.  “The government’s property polices certainly have had an
impact on the overall industry, but big listed-companies such as
Vanke are holding up well because the government’s measures are
aimed at speculative purchases,” said Danny Bao, a Hong Kong-
based analyst for Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Ltd., who
rates the stock a “buy.”  Vanke said it sold more so-called mass-market homes in
smaller cities, which helped boost profits as housing prices
rose in all but three cities that the government monitored in
the first six months. China imposed tougher measures this year
to ease speculation and limited home purchases by each family in
metropolitan areas including Shanghai and Beijing. The cabinet
said last month it will extend those curbs to smaller cities.  The stock rose 3 percent to 8.30 yuan, the biggest one-day
gain since June 14, at the 3 p.m. close in Shenzhen trading,
compared with a 0.2 percent gain in the benchmark CSI 300 Index,
which tracks the 300 most valuable stocks listed in Shanghai and
Shenzhen.  Longer Construction Cycles  Vanke, which expanded into smaller cities such as
Qinhuangdao and Taiyuan, completed 1.1 million square meters
(11.8 million square feet) of homes in the six months,
accounting for 15 percent of its target for the year, it said.  “With more fittings in the homes we sell, our construction
cycle has become longer and we are even lagging behind,” Board
Secretary Tan Huajie said in an e-mailed statement late
yesterday. “But with more homes to be completed in the fourth
quarter, we expect the year’s settlement value to be much
higher.”  The company’s contracted sales, based on bookings of
apartments before they are built, rose 64 percent to 74.1
billion yuan in the first seven months from a year earlier.  “Vanke achieved great sales amid the government’s curbs,
but the key is delivery,” Bao said. “They are going to face a
big challenge in second half in delivering those homes to
customers who paid in advance.”  Small Apartments  The developer focused on small and medium-sized homes in
the first half as it aimed to sell them quickly. About 87
percent of its apartments are smaller than 144 square meters, it
said.  “Vanke’s sales are better than its peers because most of
its products target the mass customers rather than high-end
properties that the government is cracking down on,” said
Jinsong Du, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at Credit Suisse
Group AG who has a “buy” rating on the stock. “Their move to
smaller cities also helped because the measures in those markets
weren’t as strict as those in big cities.”  Vanke, the first among China’s biggest developers to report
first-half earnings, had 40.8 billion yuan of cash by the end of
June, up 9.7 percent from the first quarter. It’s “cautious”
about buying more sites, though it will still “seize good
opportunities” for land that may emerge this year, Tan said.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Allen Wan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  