-- 
China Money Rate Down for 6th Day as PBOC Adds Cash on Slowdown

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-08-08T08:58:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/china-money-rate-down-for-6th-day-as-pboc-adds-cash-on-slowdown.html
China ’s money-market rate fell for a
sixth day, the longest losing streak since January, after the
central bank added cash to the financial system for a third week
as signs of an economic slowdown mounted.  The People’s Bank of China pumped a net 44 billion yuan
($6.8 billion) into the economy for the week through Aug. 4.
Total redemptions of central bank bills and  repurchase
agreements  will amount to 192 billion yuan this week, the
highest since early June, according to Wee-Khoon Chong, a fixed-
income strategist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong .
Economists predict China’s inflation rate will stay at the
fastest in three years in July.  “They have been injecting over the last three weeks as
growth is slow and equity is falling,” Chong said.  The seven-day repurchase rate fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 3.00 percent as of 4:54 p.m. in  Shanghai ,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. The rate is unlikely to fall much
further as consumer prices are still high, Chong said.  China’s benchmark stock index fell to a 10-month low after
the U.S.’s credit-rating downgrade rating fueled concern the
economic slowdown will worsen. China should “appropriately”
loosen monetary policy to support economic growth under the
assumption of impending financial crises in the U.S. and  Europe ,
China Securities Journal reported today, citing  Wang Jian ,
secretary-general of the China Society of Macroeconomics under
the National Development and Reform Commission.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, decreased 10 basis
points to 3.76 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The yield on the 3.99 percent government bond due June 2021,
fell three basis points to 4.00 percent, the lowest level since
July 21, according to the Interbank Funding Center.  Consumer-price gains held at 6.4 percent in July from a
year earlier, the fastest rate in three years, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg before data
due tomorrow.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 