-- 
China Vanke’s First-Half Profit Rises 5.9% on Home Sales in Smaller Cities

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-08T11:19:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/china-vanke-s-first-half-profit-rises-5-9-on-home-sales-in-smaller-cities.html
China Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest
developer by market value, said first-half profit rose 5.9
percent as it expanded into the smaller cities where home-buying
demand defied government curbs.  Net income increased to 2.98 billion yuan ($460 million),
or 0.27 yuan a share in the six months ended June, from 2.81
billion yuan and 0.26 yuan a share a year earlier, the company
said in a filing to the Shenzhen stock exchange today. Revenue
increased 19 percent to 20 billion yuan.  “Vanke’s sales are better than its peers because most of
its products target the mass customers rather than high-end
properties that the government is cracking down on,” Jinsong
Du, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG
with a “buy” rating on the stock, said before the earnings.
“Their move to smaller cities also helped, because the measures
in those markets weren’t as strict as those in big cities.”  Vanke’s profits jumped as  home prices  climbed in all but
three cities that the government monitored in the first six
months, even as measures including higher second mortgage down-
payments were intensified to fend off speculators. The cabinet
said last month it will extend the curbs to smaller cities after
limiting home purchases in metropolitan areas including Beijing
and Shanghai.  “Against the backdrop of home-purchase restrictions,
speculation has been refrained,” Vanke said in today’s
statement. “We implemented a strategy to focus on small and
medium-sized homes and aim to sell quickly in the first half of
the year.”  The company’s contracted sales, based on bookings of
apartments before they are built, rose 64 percent to 74.1
billion yuan in the first seven months from a year earlier.  Vanke’s shares fell 1.5 percent today at the 3:00 p.m.
close in  Shanghai , adding to its 2 percent decline this year,
compared with a 3.6 percent loss in the gauge of property stocks
on the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Allen Wan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  