-- 
China Researcher Suggests More Yuan Volatility in Market Slump

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-08T04:47:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/china-researcher-suggests-more-yuan-volatility-in-market-slump.html
China  should use the current slump in
global markets to allow more volatility in the yuan’s exchange
rate, which would help discourage hot money inflows, said Zhang Ming, a researcher at the  Chinese Academy of Social Sciences .  “A market with fluctuations will be far better than a
market with only one-way appreciation expectations in terms of
helping China curb hot money inflows,” Zhang, a deputy director
of the academy’s international financial research bureau, said
in a telephone interview. He forecast the yuan may strengthen 6
percent this year against the dollar.  The Chinese currency rose today by the most since April
after the People’s Bank of China set its daily fixing for the
yuan 0.23 percent stronger from the previous trading day, the
biggest advance since November 2010. The dollar dropped to a
record low against the Swiss franc, fell for a second day versus
the yen and weakened against the euro after  Standard & Poor’s 
downgraded the U.S.’s sovereign credit rating.  The yuan’s strength today is “a natural market reaction”
when consider the dollar’s decline due to the ratings downgrade
and “a rising chance” of a third-round of so-called
quantitative easing in the U.S., Zhang said. The global
financial market swings are “a good opportunity” for China to
allow the yuan to be more flexible, he said.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell today, dragging the
benchmark  stock index  down as much as 20 percent from a November
high. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, which last week entered a so-
called correction after falling more than 10 percent from its
May peak, slumped 2 percent as of 11:50 a.m. local time in  Tokyo .  --Victoria Ruan. Editor:  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  