-- 
China’s Stocks Tumble, Dragging Shanghai Index Down 21% from November High

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-08T05:24:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/china-s-stocks-tumble-dragging-shanghai-index-down-21-from-november-high.html
China ’s stocks fell, dragging the
benchmark index down as much as 21 percent from a November high,
as the loss of America’s top credit rating fueled concern global
economic growth will slow.  Jiangxi Copper Co. and PetroChina Co., the nation’s biggest
producers of copper and oil, dropped at least 2.4 percent after
metals and crude prices slumped. China Cosco Holdings Co. fell
to a record low, pacing losses by shipping lines, on concern
trade will falter.  “The downgrade hammered investors’ confidence in the
economic recovery and it will be hard to turn that pessimistic
sentiment around,” said Mei Luwu, a  fund manager  at Lion Fund
Management Co. which oversees more than $7.8 billion.  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, slumped 99.7 points, or 3.8 percent, to
2,526.69 as of 1:04 p.m. local time, set for the biggest drop
since Nov. 16 and the lowest level since July 19, 2010. A
decline of 20 percent or more signals a so-called  bear market  to
some investors. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  fell 3.8 percent to 2,787.11.  S&P lowered the U.S. long-term rating one level to AA+
after the markets closed on Aug. 5 while keeping the outlook at
“negative.” The rating may be reduced to AA within two years
if spending reductions are lower than agreed to, interest rates
rise or “new fiscal pressures” result in higher general
government debt, the New York-based S&P said.  China’s official Xinhua news service said in a commentary
that the U.S. must cure its “addiction” to borrowing. China
has accumulated $1.16 trillion of the debt and is the largest
individual foreign holder.  Oil, Copper  Gauges tracking materials and energy stocks on the CSI 300
sank at least 4 percent. Jiangxi Copper lost 4.6 percent to
32.75 yuan, set for the lowest close since June 20. PetroChina
retreated 2.4 percent to 9.94 yuan, the lowest since Sept. 28.  Oil sank 2.9 percent, copper slumped as much as 0.9 percent
in  London  and gold topped $1,690 an ounce.  The U.S. accounted for 17 percent of China’s total exports
in the first six months, according to customs data. Exports will
likely slow more quickly than expected because of the global
economic slump, with industries such as shipping, raw materials
and real estate facing the biggest risks, according to Deutsche
Bank AG.  China Cosco, the nation’s biggest listed shipping company,
slipped 5.7 percent to 6.96 yuan, the lowest since the stock
began trading in June 2007. China Shipping Development Co. sank
6.3 percent to 7.12 yuan, the lowest since Oct. 29, 2008.  Europe  Concern  Policy makers held emergency conference calls over the
weekend as they sought to stave off a collapse in investor
confidence that has already wiped out about $5.4 trillion in
global equity values since July 26. The  European Central Bank 
signaled it’s ready to start buying Italian and Spanish bonds to
stem the region’s debt contagion.  China International Capital Corp. closed its technical long
call on China’s stocks in place since June 20, amid concern
Europe’s debt crisis is worsening.  “Any short-covering rally later should be considered an
opportunity for exit,” Hao Hong, a Beijing-based global
equity strategist at CICC, the nation’s biggest investment bank
and top-ranked provider of China research in Asiamoney’s
survey, said in a report today.  Monetary Tightening  The Shanghai stocks measure trades at 11.6 times estimated
earnings, the lowest on record according to daily data compiled
by Bloomberg that stretches back to January 2005. The gauge has
slumped 19.9 percent from its high on Nov. 8 on concern that
growth in the world’s second-biggest economy is slowing as the
government intensifies measures to stem inflation.  The government is scheduled to release economic data
tomorrow including July inflation. CPI probably stayed at a
three-year high of 6.4 percent, according to the median estimate
of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The central bank has raised  interest rates  five times and
ordered lenders to set aside more cash as deposit reserves 12
times since the start of 2010 to contain price rises, which
quickened to the fastest pace in three years in June.  China should “appropriately” loosen monetary policy to
support economic growth under the assumption of an impending
financial crisis in the U.S. and Europe, China Securities
Journal reported today, citing  Wang Jian , secretary-general of
the China Society of Macroeconomics under the National
Development and Reform Commission.  New Loans  Tightening monetary policy to tame inflation will hurt
China’s economic growth, Wang said, according to the report.  China’s four biggest banks made 205.6 billion yuan ($32
billion) of new loans in July, 7.4 billion yuan more than in the
previous month, the China Securities Journal reported today,
citing an unidentified person.  Last month’s total new loans extended by all banks were
probably 550 billion yuan to 650 billion yuan, according to the
Beijing-based newspaper. China’s four biggest banks are the
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., Bank of China Ltd.,
China Construction Bank Corp. and Agricultural Bank of China
Ltd.  China’s money-market rate fell for a sixth day, the longest
losing streak since January, after the central bank added cash
to the financial system for a third week as signs of an economic
slowdown mounted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  