-- 
China’s Yuan Policy ‘Probably Tilting’ on U.S. Debt Woes: Chart of the Day

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-08T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/china-s-yuan-policy-probably-tilting-on-u-s-debt-woes-chart-of-the-day.html
U.S. debt turmoil may be “tilting”
 China  toward letting the yuan move less in synch with the dollar,
which would reduce central bank intervention and slow the growth
of foreign reserves, according to  Societe Generale  SA.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the People’s Bank of China yuan
fixing rate and the U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the
greenback against a basket of currencies of the U.S.’s major
trading partners. The relationship between the two “weakened”
in the past several months as the debate in  Washington  about the
debt ceiling heated up, said Yao Wei, an economist in  Hong Kong 
at Societe Generale.  “Turmoil caused by the poor U.S. fiscal situation serves
as a big warning to Chinese officials that there is no time for
further stalling -- China has to learn to float the currency
now,” Yao said. “Concerns over growth and employment would
continue to be a counter argument to any drastic moves, but the
balance of political thinking is probably tilting” toward a
stronger and more flexible yuan, she said.  The People’s Bank of China yesterday set its daily fixing
for the yuan at 0.23 percent stronger from the previous trading
day, the biggest advance since November 2010, while the dollar
weakened against major currencies after  Standard & Poor’s  on Aug.
5 lowered the U.S.’s rating one level to AA+ while keeping the
outlook at “negative.” The yuan is allowed to rise or fall by
as much as 0.5 percent from the central parity rate on each
trading day against the greenback.  China is by far the largest holder of Treasuries, with
$1.16 trillion, according to Treasury Department data in May.
The world’s second-largest economy had $3.2 trillion of foreign
reserves at June 30, Bloomberg data show. That’s about equal to
the gross domestic product of Germany, whose economy is smaller
than only those of the U.S., China and  Japan .  “China should introduce more volatility to the yuan’s
exchange rate, using the global market turmoil as a good
opportunity,” said Zhang Ming, a researcher at the  Chinese
Academy of Social Sciences .  --Victoria Ruan. Editor: John Liu  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at   ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  