-- 
Classy Babe Zaharias Stormed the Links; Integrating Baseball

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 
2011-08-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/classy-babe-zaharias-stormed-the-links-integrating-baseball-sports-books.html
In “ Cuban Star ,”  Adrian Burgos Jr. 
tells the overlooked tale of how the owner of a Negro League
baseball team imported Latino stars, helping shape the most
American of sports.  The hero is the gambler/genius Alejandro Pompez, who owned
the New York Cubans and went on, after integration, to become a
scout for the Giants. His insight, which won him a spot in the
Hall of Fame, seems simple: Young men from Cuba, the broader
Caribbean and finally from throughout  Latin America  could really
play baseball. He was responsible for the emergence of such
figures as Orlando Cepeda, Felipe Alou, Juan Marichal and, by
extension, many hundreds more.  But he also ran a notorious numbers racket in Harlem in the
1930s -- a part of the  New York  baseball scene often omitted in
the nostalgia-tinged accounts that have become a literary
staple.  Like baseball itself, “Cuban Star” is an American story:
of working the angles, of failure leading to triumph, of
struggle, including the peculiarly difficult passage from
outsider to insider. Pompez, who died in 1974, didn’t live to
see Latino ballplayers make that passage.  “As a black Latino,” Burgos writes, “he dealt with the
racial and cultural cleavages that marked social interactions as
much in the urban North as they did in the Jim Crow South,
despite popularized notions of a melting pot, cultural
pluralism, or multiculturalism.” (Hill & Wang, $28.)  ‘The Way of Baseball’  It isn’t every day a ballplayer cites “Zen and the Art of
Motorcycle Maintenance” and “Siddhartha” among the greatest
influences in his life, but it isn’t every day a ballplayer
writes a book like “ The Way of Baseball .” Shawn Green wasn’t
your average ballplayer, and we’re not talking his .283 batting
average and 328 homers in 15 seasons. We’re talking his approach
to the game, and to life.  His little volume might be seen as a thinking man’s guide
to baseball. This man who worked in front of crowds writes about
solitude. This athlete who inspired cheers writes about silence.  He analyzes the batting stance, the swing, the batter’s
response to a pitch as the marriage of mechanics and meditation.
Thus, sentences you don’t see in most sports memoirs: “My swing
had been my form of active meditation until my ego intervened,
physically pulling me off balance and into the nonexistent
future.” Or: “I created a kind of bubble around what I came to
recognize as my true essence.”  Green  was able to alter his consciousness even as he
changed his batting stance and, more important, his philosophy
of hitting -- an alteration that made the pitcher part of the
batter’s trade.  “By the time the ball left his hand,” he says, “I was
fully alert in the moment, so that the pitcher was my partner in
hitting rather than my opponent.” ( Simon & Schuster , $24.)  ‘Wonder Girl’  Babe Didrikson Zaharias  had skills that rivaled those of
any athlete in the middle of the 20th century. An All-American
basketball player and winner of three Olympic medals in track
and field, she was a polymath who performed, as the editors of
her high-school yearbook put it, “with an ease and grace
rivaling that of a dancer.”  But all that was prologue, for it wasn’t on the field or
barnstorming with a basketball team where she would leave her
greatest mark. It was on the golf links, where she would become
the first woman to play in the Professional Golfers’ Association
of America.  Don Van Natta Jr.’s “ Wonder Girl ” is the story of a woman
who was brash at a time when women were docile, athletically
aggressive when they were passive, self-promoting when they were
accustomed to demurring. Arthur Daley, the fabled New York Times
sportswriter, once asked her what sport she did best. “I do
everything best,” she said.  She won it all -- except a battle against cancer. When she
died in 1956 at age 45, President  Dwight D. Eisenhower  saluted
her for winning “the admiration of every person in the  United
States .”  She left a legacy, and not only on the athletic fields
where women today compete with ferocity and feeling. “In
unwittingly struggling to redefine the way American society
viewed women athletes,” Van Natta writes, “she was redefining
how it viewed women in general.” In that, especially, she was a
winner. (Little, Brown, $27.99.)  (David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 