-- 
Clean Energy Stocks Fall as Solar Sector Hit by ‘Triple Whammy’

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-08-08T23:47:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/clean-energy-stocks-fall-as-solar-sector-hit-by-triple-whammy-.html
Clean energy stocks fell the most in
more than two and a half years, outpacing declines in benchmark
indexes, led by solar stocks hit by falling prices and demand.  The Wilderhill New Energy Global Innovation Index, a global
index of clean energy stocks, fell 6.8 percent today, the most
since Dec. 1, 2008, as the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  dropped
5.5 percent. Battery maker  A123 Systems Inc. (AONE)  led the index
lower, falling 23 percent to $2.99.  Renesola Ltd. (SOL) , a Chinese maker of solar panels, led
declines in solar stocks, closing down 18 percent at $2.76,
after the U.S. credit rating downgrade caused investors to
retreat from riskier assets. Yingli Green Energy Holding Co., a
China-based maker of solar panels, fell 11 percent to $5.08.
Solar stocks have fallen this year due to cuts in subsidies in
 Europe  and manufacturing overcapacity in expansion in Asia.  “This is a triple whammy pulling stock prices lower:
industry-specific issues like overcapacity and a drop in demand
in combination with government debt and budget concerns and
broader  risk aversion  in the financial markets,” said Aaron Chew, analyst at Maxim Group LLC. “Solar is at the top of the
risk pile as even most high-tech names are more secure.”  JA Solar Holdings Co., a Chinese manufacturer of solar
cells and panels, fell 69 cents, or 17 percent, to close at
$3.35 a share in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. JA said today that
its gross margin may plunge in the second quarter on lower
selling prices and inventory provisions.  The Wilderhill index has dropped 30 percent in the past
four months compared to the Dow Jones Industrial Average’s
decline of 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 