-- 
Clean Energy Companies Seek $131 Million of Australian Grants

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-08-08T08:26:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/clean-energy-companies-seek-australia-s-a-126-million-of-grants.html
Carnegie Wave Energy Ltd. (CWE) ,  Panax
Geothermal Ltd. (PAX)  and  Petratherm Ltd. (PTR)  are among companies planning
to apply for A$126 million ($131 million) of Australian
government funding set aside to help renewable energy projects.  “We will be seeking as great a contribution as we can
possibly get,” Kerry Parker, managing director of Brisbane-
based Panax Geothermal, said in a phone interview today. “Our
main challenge is funding. The clear message from investors over
the last six to 12 months is that they want to see a far greater
portion of the costs contributed by the government.”  The Australian government started accepting applications
for a renewable energy funding program aimed at spurring the
development of “emerging” geothermal, wave, solar and other
technologies, Energy Minister Martin Ferguson said today in a
statement. At least a third of the grant money, or A$42 million,
will go to geothermal companies, Ferguson said.  Australia, the developed world’s biggest per-capita
polluter, has set a target of generating 20 percent of its power
from renewable energy sources such as wind and solar by 2020.
The country plans to set up a A$10 billion Clean Energy Finance
Corp. to invest in renewable energy projects seeking to get off
the ground, Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said last month.  ’Flexible’ Funding  The renewable program increased by A$26 million after
 Torrens Energy Ltd. (TEY) ,  Green Rock Energy Ltd. (GRK) ,  Greenearth Energy
Ltd. (GER)  and  Hot Rock Ltd. (HRL)  struggled to attract matching funding and
failed to fulfill the requirements of a previous round of
grants, the Australian companies said in a joint statement
today.  The funding initiative announced today will be more
“flexible,” according to Ferguson’s statement.  Panax, among Australian companies seeking to produce power
from underground heat, is planning to develop a geothermal
project in the Otway Basin in  South Australia .  The geothermal company, whose shares have declined 67
percent in Sydney trading this year, will review the details of
the program before deciding how much money to seek, Parker said.
The company had decided not to spend additional money in
 Australia  until more government funding is available, he said.  Carnegie Wave, focused on wave power technology, intends to
compete for some of the new funding, Michael Ottaviano, managing
director of the Perth-based company, said by phone today.
Carnegie was unsuccessful in 2009 in getting Australian
government funds to promote renewable energy.  “If you are applying, you’re going to need to be open to
the fact this can’t be your sole route to commercialization,”
he said. “That’s something Carnegie has learned in the past.
We’re interested, but we’re pursuing other paths in
jurisdictions like Ireland and Scotland.”  Petratherm will seek as much as A$5 million in funds, Terry Kallis, managing director of the Adelaide-based geothermal
company, said by phone today. Petratherm is targeting funds for
its Heliotherm project, which aims to combine geothermal, solar
and natural gas technologies to producer power, Kallis said.  Carnegie Wave has declined 31 percent in Sydney trading
this year to 7.6 Australian cents, while Petratherm has fallen
4.8 percent to 10 cents. That compares with a 16 percent drop in
the S&P/ASX 200 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 prakash1@bloomberg.net  