-- 
ClimateCare Buys Itself Out From JPMorgan, Targets U.N. Offsets

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-08-08T16:43:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/climatecare-buys-itself-out-from-jpmorgan-targets-u-n-offsets.html
Emissions offset developer
 ClimateCare  said it has been taken private in a  management
buyout  from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  as it seeks to expand
investment in the  United Nations  carbon offset market.  ClimateCare, founded in 1997 to invest in greenhouse gas
emission-reduction projects, has been bought back by the
management and is an independent entity as of today, Edward Hanrahan, an executive director of the company, said by
telephone and e-mail from Oxford, England. He declined to
disclose the price paid. JPMorgan bought the company in 2008, a
year before its purchase of EcoSecurities, an offset buyer.  The company has sold offsets to companies including German
utility EON AG, electronics maker  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and vehicle
manufacturer Land Rover as well as to Britain’s political
parties and The Elders, a group of global leaders that include
Desmond Tutu and  Nelson Mandela .  ClimateCare specializes in emissions-cutting projects that
also enhance sustainable development, focusing on Sub-Saharan
Africa, Hanrahan said. These include fuel-efficient stoves and
clean-water filters. Such projects create credits that can
either be used by companies wishing to voluntarily reduce their
carbon footprint, or by those wishing to comply with emissions
trading systems such as the European Union’s market and the
United Nations’ Clean Development Mechanism, or CDM.  “Moving forward we’ll be doing much more CDM project
development,” Hanrahan said. “We have a large pipeline of
projects which we’re working on at the moment both in the
voluntary market and CDM. We’re working with a number of
partners to develop some new projects as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie at
   cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  