-- 
Colombia’s Peso Posts Biggest Drop This Year on U.S. Downgrade

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-08-08T18:27:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/colombia-s-peso-drops-most-in-three-months-on-u-s-downgrade.html
Colombia ’s peso posted its biggest
drop this year amid concern Standard & Poor’s first ever
downgrade of the U.S. credit rating may worsen an economic
slowdown in the world’s biggest economy.  The peso slid 1.4 percent to 1,814.72 per  U.S. dollar  at
2:03 p.m. New York time, from 1,789.75 on Aug. 5. That’s its
biggest drop since Dec. 28.  “Confidence has been hit with the downgrade and it boils
down to how it will impact growth in the U.S. as consumers think
twice about buying big-ticket items such as cars,” said  Camilo Perez , the head analyst at Banco de Bogota SA, Colombia’s
second-biggest bank. “Riskier assets, especially stocks, are
getting hit as investors seek refuge in more liquid assets such
as U.S. Treasuries.”  S&P lowered the U.S. long-term rating one level to AA+
after the markets closed on Aug. 5 while keeping the outlook at
“negative” as it becomes less confident Congress will end
Bush-era tax cuts or tackle entitlements. The rating may be
reduced to AA within two years if spending reductions are lower
than agreed to,  interest rates  rise or “new fiscal pressures”
result in higher general government debt, the New York-based
firm said. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings last week
affirmed their AAA U.S. ratings.  U.S. stocks tumbled, giving the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
its worst slump since November 2008. Colombian stocks approached
a  bear market , with the IGBC index down 21 percent from a
November high.  ‘Relatively Stable’  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent bonds due July 2024 rose
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.67 percent,
according to the stock exchange. The bond’s price fell 0.146
centavo to 118.750 centavos per peso.  Colombian bonds are “relatively stable” amid today’s
heightened risk aversion after an Aug. 5 report showed consumer
prices rose 0.14 percent in July, Perez said. That compares to
the median estimate among economists surveyed by Bloomberg for a
0.15 percent increase.  “There was concern food prices would lead consumer prices
in July to rise higher than the market was forecasting,” said
Perez. “The report relieved that worry so we continue to have
positive local factors such as controlled inflation and good
fiscal numbers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  