-- 
Commodity Currencies Only Refuge as Intervention Upends Havens Amid Rout

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k ,   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-08-08T17:31:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/commodity-currencies-only-refuge-left-after-intervention-eliminates-havens.html
The currency havens are disappearing
as Switzerland and Japan intervene in foreign-exchange markets,
while U.S. and European debt loads undermine credit ratings.  The biggest beneficiaries in the $4 trillion-a-day  currency
market  may be Norway’s krone and the Australia and New Zealand
dollars, according to Frankfurt Trust, which oversees about $23
billion. All have debt that is less than 48 percent of gross
domestic product, compared with about 60 percent in the U.S., 77
percent in the U.K. and 79 percent in Germany, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Swiss franc and Japanese yen, which had become
favorites of traders skittish about holding dollars and euros,
became perilous after the Swiss National Bank unexpectedly cut
 interest rates  and Japan sold its currency. The yen weakened as
much as 3.2 percent on Aug. 4, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The U.S. came within days of
defaulting and Italian and Spanish bond yields approached levels
that spurred bailouts of Greece and Ireland.  “You want to stay away from the euro and dollar because
this is really an ugly pair and there are alternatives,”
Christoph Kind, the head of asset allocation in Frankfurt at
Frankfurt Trust, said in a telephone interview last week. “I
like currencies like the Australian and  New Zealand  dollars, the
Swedish krona and the Norwegian krone. They are AAA-rated
countries with a currency they can manage and handle, and they
have pretty liquid markets.”  S&P Downgrade  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S.’s AAA credit rating
for the first time on Aug. 5, lowering the ranking to AA+. The
company kept the outlook at “negative,” saying it was becoming
less confident that Congress will end Bush-era tax cuts or
tackle entitlements.  Even after the biggest declines in more than a year last
week, the New Zealand and Australian dollars are the only
currencies besides the franc that rose in the past 12 months
among 10 major peers tracked by the Bloomberg indexes. The kiwi,
as New Zealand’s currency is known, climbed 3.5 percent in the
period, with the so-called Aussie up 2.6 percent, the indexes
show. The franc surged 29 percent.  New Zealand’s dollar depreciated 1.3 percent to 82.21 U.S.
cents at 1:15 p.m. in  New York , adding to last week’s 4.1
percent drop. The Aussie declined 1 percent to $1.0341 after
tumbling 5 percent in the five days to Aug. 5. Those were the
biggest weekly drops for both since at least May 2010.  Commodity Demand  Australia and New Zealand have profited from commodity
demand from  China , whose economy grew 9.5 percent last quarter
from a year earlier. China accounts for 25 percent of
Australia’s exports, with Asia taking more than 70 percent,
Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  said in New
York on April 13. Overseas sales of products such as wool,
lumber and milk account for about 30 percent of New Zealand’s
economy.  Estimates for Australia’s dollar versus the greenback have
climbed 9.4 percent this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Expectations for New Zealand’s dollar have increased
9.3 percent since the end of December.  Norway  had the biggest government surplus of any AAA-rated
country last year at 10.5 percent of gross domestic product,
according to Fitch Ratings. The nation is the world’s seventh-
largest oil exporter. Analysts have raised their fourth-quarter
predictions for Norway’s krone against the dollar by more than
15 percent, Bloomberg data show. Forecasts for the Swiss franc
have increased more than 20 percent.  Krone Performance  The krone weakened 1.8 percent last week and was little
changed at 5.4769 per dollar today. It climbed 0.5 percent
against the euro to 7.7787. The Norwegian currency is 1.3
percent lower in the past year versus its developed-market
counterparts, the correlation-weighted indexes show.  The yen weakened as much as 4.1 percent against the dollar
on Aug. 4, the most since October 2008, after the Bank of  Japan 
intervened to protect the nation’s economic recovery. Japan
acted as the yen approached its post World War II high of 76.25
to the dollar, reached on March 17 in the aftermath of the
nation’s biggest-ever earthquake that spawned a deadly tsunami
and nuclear disaster. The yen dropped 2.1 percent last week to
78.40 and traded at 77.60 today.  Japan may have spent a record amount intervening to stem
the yen’s gains, based on projections of deposits held by
financial institutions at the Bank of Japan. The central bank
estimated that deposits climbed to a total 32.3 trillion yen
($414 billion), it said in a statement on Aug. 5 in  Tokyo . The
figure suggests the government sold about 4.5 trillion yen, a
record, according to Yuichi Takahashi, market economist at Totan
Research Co., a money-market brokerage in Tokyo.  More Intervention  A day before Japan acted, the franc fell 1.9 percent versus
the euro as the SNB lowered its benchmark rate to “as close to
zero as possible” from 0.25 percent.  The Zurich-based bank was countering gains that have pushed
the franc up about 37 percent against the dollar and 27 percent
versus the euro in the past year. The franc still strengthened
about 3.2 percent against the euro to 1.09541 last week and
traded today at 1.0707.  “Intervention is becoming a bigger trend,” said  Geoffrey Yu , a foreign-exchange strategist at UBS AG in  London . “It’s a
trend that is going to continue unless we see a massive reversal
in market moves, which doesn’t look likely.”  Moment of ‘Stress’  South American finance officials, struggling to keep the
two-year decline of the U.S. dollar from hurting their
economies, are seeking to agree on a coordinated response.
Foreign investment inflows that quadrupled since 2003 may
accelerate amid concern that recoveries in the U.S. and  Europe 
are faltering and may force the  Federal Reserve  to begin another
round of asset purchases.  This is a moment of “stress,” Brazilian Finance Minister
Guido Mantega told reporters in Lima on Aug. 5. “We have to be
united to create mechanisms of protection in response to this
situation.” Last year, he said the U.S., Japan and Europe were
sparking a global “currency war” with near-zero interest
rates.  Currencies such as the Aussie, the krone and the kiwi won’t
avoid a “real scare,” said Firas Askari, the head currency
trader in Toronto at Bank of Montreal.  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of stocks sank 8.6 percent last week
amid concern the  U.S. economy  may slip into a recession and as
Europe’s fiscal crisis roiled markets in Italy and Spain,
sending the nations’ bond yields toward 6.5 percent and euro-era
records last week.  ECB Purchases  The euro fell 1.6 percent against the dollar on Aug. 4
after European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet kept
the main rate at 1.50 percent and said policy makers resumed
bond purchases following an 18-week hiatus. He also said policy
makers would offer banks more cash to keep debt-crisis contagion
from engulfing Italy and Spain.  It gained for a second day today after the ECB signaled
it’s ready to start buying Italian and Spanish bonds to tame the
sovereign-debt crisis. In a statement issued in the name of the
ECB president after an emergency Governing Council conference
call last night, the Frankfurt-based central bank said it will
“actively implement” its bond-purchase program.  The 17-nation European currency has dropped 2.2 percent in
the past year amid credit-ranking downgrades into so-called junk
status of nations including Greece and Portugal.  Dollar Slump  The dollar fell 10 percent in the past year, the worst
performer as measured by the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes, as the U.S. recovery faltered and concern mounted the
government would default amid a standoff between President
Barack Obama and the House of Representatives over raising the
nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit.  Obama signed a compromise agreement on Aug. 2, the day the
Treasury had said the nation’s borrowing authority would expire.
In lowering the U.S. rating last week, S&P said it may be cut to
AA within two years if spending reductions are lower than agreed
to, interest rates rise or “new fiscal pressures” result in
higher general-government debt.  “The downgrade reflects our opinion that the fiscal
consolidation plan that Congress and the Administration recently
agreed to falls short of what, in our view, would be necessary
to stabilize the government’s medium-term debt dynamics,” New
York-based S&P said.  ‘Ugly Dog Competition’  Gross domestic product rose at a 1.3 percent annual rate in
the second quarter following a 0.4 percent increase in the first
three months, the Commerce Department in  Washington  said on July
29. Harvard University economics professor Martin Feldstein, a
member of the Business Cycle Dating Committee of the National
Bureau of Economic Research, said he sees a 50 percent chance of
another recession.  “It’s a kind of ugly-dog competition and it’s not really
that you prefer a currency, it’s just which one is under less
pressure at a particular time,” said  Frances Hudson , who helps
oversee about $257 billion as a global strategist at Standard
Life Investments in Edinburgh.  The committee of bond dealers and investors that advises
the U.S. Treasury  said  in quarterly feedback presented to the
government, published on Aug. 3, the dollar’s status as the
world’s reserve currency “appears to be slipping.”  The Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee, which includes
representatives from firms including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and Pacific Investment Management Co., said the outperformance
of haven currencies and those from emerging nations is debasing
the dollar’s status as the world’s reserve currency, according
to comments included in the group’s discussion charts.  Reserve Status ‘Slipping’  International Monetary Fund data show the dollar accounted
for 60.7 percent of global currency reserves in the first
quarter, down from 72.7 percent a decade ago. The euro’s share
fell to 26.6 percent from a peak of 27.9 percent in 2009.  A category the Washington-based IMF calls “other
currencies,” which strategists say includes the Australian, New
Zealand and Canadian dollars soared to 4.7 percent from 1.8
percent at the end of 2007.  “The lack of safe-haven credentials” applies to the
dollar and the euro, said  Alan Ruskin , the global head of Group-
of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York.
“That’s what is funnelling us into some very small markets,
which are having a very hard time accommodating these flows.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  