-- 
Credit Agricole’s Kowalczyk Says Asia to Tolerate Appreciation

-- B y   C h i e n   M i   W o n g
-- 
2011-08-08T01:52:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/credit-agricole-s-kowalczyk-says-asia-to-tolerate-appreciation.html
Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based
senior strategist at Credit Agricole SA, comments on the outlook
for Asian currencies and bonds in a research note released today
following a downgrade of the U.S. credit rating by  Standard &
Poor’s .  “We believe that emerging markets that enjoy strong
fundamentals, most of which are in  Asia , will be fine as long as
the global financial or banking systems are stable and as long
as developed markets are showing at least some GDP growth.  “Currencies opened mostly up and we believe that foreign
exchange may gain amid the dollar’s weakness. Currencies of
countries with current-account surpluses will also be supported
by the fact that central banks are likely, in the long run, to
accept more appreciation rather than face the prospect of having
to invest the dollars and other developed markets currencies
they purchase in increasingly less solid developed markets
government debt.  “Some Asian governments or central banks pledged
monitoring or stabilizing their markets, and we would expect the
South Korean won and the Taiwanese dollar to be particularly
supported.”  On Asian bonds:  “Bonds issued by Asian emerging markets with stronger
fundamentals are likely to benefit from the U.S. credit
downgrade in the long run.  “First, they will be recipients of foreign inflows seeking
new safe havens and foreign central bank demand as foreign-
exchange reserve diversification accelerates. Second, the weaker
global outlook and lower commodity prices may limit the scope
for further monetary tightening, and there has been a signal
from  India  in this direction already.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chien Mi Wong in Singapore at 
 cwong303@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 