-- 
Credit Swaps on U.S. Treasuries Rise After S&P Pulls Top Grade

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-08-08T10:57:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/credit-swaps-on-u-s-treasuries-rise-after-s-p-pulls-top-grade.html
The cost of protecting U.S.
Treasuries from default rose to the highest in more than a week
after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the AAA credit rating of the world’s
largest economy for the first time.  Credit-default swaps insuring U.S. Treasuries for five
years rose 3.5 basis points to 58.5 as of 11 a.m. in London,
according to CMA. The contracts are still below the 29-month
high reached two weeks ago when Congress struggled to raise the
nation’s debt ceiling.  “The bet is that the credit quality of the U.S. will
decline further, and investors will be willing to purchase
protection at higher prices,”  Philip Gisdakis , a Munich-based
strategist at UniCredit SpA, said by phone.  S&P blamed “uncertainty” in the U.S. policymaking process
as the ratings firm cut the government’s top rating one level to
AA+ on Aug. 5. The cost of protecting European  government bonds 
from default tumbled after the  European Central Bank  was said to
buy Spanish and Italian bonds as part of a plan to tackle the
region’s debt crisis.  U.S. Treasuries rose as tumbling stock markets sparked
demand for the safety of government debt, reversing an initial
decline after S&P’s downgrade. The benchmark 10-year yield fell
8 basis points to 2.48 percent in London, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting $10
million of debt from default for five years is equivalent to
$1,000 a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  London  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  