-- 
Crowds Gasp as Shelves Crash, 1,000 Books Fly in RSC’s ‘Tale’

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-08-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/crowds-gasp-as-crashing-shelves-send-1-000-books-flying-in-winter-s-tale-.html
The audience gasps when two towering
bookcases shudder and collide, sending 1,000 volumes tumbling
precipitously to the stage below.  Those packed shelves, sentinels of a rational life that has
just met its own crashing demise, dominate the  Royal Shakespeare
Company ’s lingeringly moving production of “The Winter’s Tale”
at New York’s  Park Avenue Armory .  The ignominious events that unfold quickly and brutally
include a loyal pregnant wife sentenced to death for infidelity,
a vivacious young prince dying of heartbreak and a disconsolate
consigliere devoured by a rampaging bear.  Veering between melodrama and ursine comedy, this fable of
enduring love and the power of forgiveness is a perennial
challenge to directors and designers. Director David Farr and
designer Jon Bausor updated the action to the 18th century,
making the story of Sicilian king Leontes, driven by jealousy to
cruel acts and bitter remorse, a tale of a mind broken and
ultimately healed through words.  “We’ve set it in the Age of Enlightenment, so it has the
world of Kant about it,” Bausor said in an interview from
 London . “I was interested in Leontes resting his idealism on
law and order. His world is stacked up on the shelves on
stage.”  Leontes loses his adoring wife Hermione and his beloved boy
Mamillius. Everything has come crashing down upon him -- in this
case, quite literally.  End is Nigh  “It made sense to destroy this world,” Bausor, 34, said.
“We register that Mamillius was reading these books.”  The result, as the recovering audience quickly surmises, is
a major mess. With the action moving directly to rustic, bawdy
Bohemia, Bausor pulls off a second brilliant effect: The 16-
foot-high bookcases, now set against each other in a giant A
shape, becomes Bohemia, the leaves of the books now leaves of
trees, a bower for the young lovers Florizel and Perdita.  “It was an efficient scene change, shoving everything
forward, making it more in the round,” Bausor understated.  When the intermission comes, curious patrons inevitably
make their way to the stage of the theater, a replica of the
RSC’s Stratford home base. There they see works from the
Enlightenment, along with its shadow image, represented by the
dark tales of the brothers Grimm.  Real Pages  “You have to prepare for them going up and looking at
everything,” Bausor said. “We made the artwork for each one of
those pages -- Grimm’s fairy tales renderings. It helps me and
the director get conceptually through the play. It sets the
rules.”  Ultimately, someone does have to clean it all up after each
show -- especially when the company has four other productions
to prepare for.  “Placing the books is an onerous and long task, which
fortunately I don’t have to do,” said Richard Smith, the RSC’s
principal automation technician (a title that probably would
have baffled theatergoers when “The Winter’s Tale” was first
performed at Shakespeare’s Globe in 1611).  The collapse is controlled from the technician’s rail out
front, with a backup under the stage in case anything goes
wrong.  “When it’s over, it’s all hands on deck,” Smith said, for
another chore he’s happy to turn over to others. “It takes
about 25 minutes to a half hour just to clean it all up.”  Noisily dismantling the scenery during the show has long
been an effect beloved by British designers. I asked Smith if
the  New York  audiences were different from those in London,
especially when those bookcases begin their unsettling topple.  “We do get more whoops here,” he said. “In Britain, it’s
as if nothing happened. Because it’s what we do well.”  “The Winter’s Tale” is running through Aug. 14 in
repertory with four other Shakespeare plays at the Park Avenue
Armory, Park Avenue and East 67th Street. Information: +1-212-
721-6500;  http://www.lincolncenterfestival.org .  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 