-- 
Pistons’ Ben Gordon Won’t Play for Britain National Team Over Insurance

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-08-08T17:11:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/detroit-pistons-ben-gordon-won-t-play-for-britain-over-insurance-impasse.html
Detroit Pistons guard Ben Gordon
won’t play for Britain in this year’s  EuroBasket  finals in
preparation for the  London   2012 Olympics  because he couldn’t
reach an agreement on insurance with the national team.  Their failure to achieve a deal followed complications
linked to the current National Basketball Association lockout,
British Basketball said in an e-mailed statement.  An insurance arrangement between the NBA and the
International Basketball Federation, the sport’s world governing
body known as FIBA, doesn’t cover lockout periods, said Chris
Spice, performance director for British Basketball. Under that
agreement, the national team had to pay 40 percent of insurance
fees for NBA players, he said.  “We have done our best to provide a cover that is close to
what we would have had in a normal season, but in the end things
didn’t work out from a financial or scope-of-cover
perspective,” Spice said today in the statement. The team is
still hoping to make an arrangement with Gordon in time for next
year’s Olympics, according to the statement.  Britain got insurance last week for the EuroBasket games
with 26-year-old  Chicago Bulls  forward Luol Deng.  “You don’t get much change from 100,000 pounds
($164,000),” Spice said yesterday of Deng’s arrangement,
following a warm-up game in Cobham, outside London, where
Britain beat the Netherlands 96-70. British Basketball didn’t
have an estimate of what it would cost to insure Gordon.  EuroBasket finals start Aug. 31 in  Lithuania , and include
24 teams. The event is held every two years, and this month’s is
the 37th held by FIBA  Europe . The top two nations are guaranteed
Olympic spots. Britain qualified for the Olympics as host
through a March FIBA vote.  Gordon, a 28-year-old London native, was named the NBA’s
Sixth Man of the Year, denoting the best substitute player, as a
rookie with the Bulls. He hasn’t played internationally for
Britain.  NBA owners locked out players on July 1 after their labor
contract expired, in a dispute over how to split money from a
league that generated about $4.3 billion revenue last season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  