-- 
Deutsche Bank CEO’s Hedging of Italian Risk Shows Germany Is the Priority

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-08-08T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/deutsche-bank-ceo-s-hedging-of-italian-risk-shows-germany-is-the-priority.html
When  Josef Ackermann  called on
lenders to help bail out Greece last month, the  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
chief executive officer had already cut his potential losses
from the crisis spreading to  Italy  and  Spain .  Five days after lenders agreed to back the Institute for
International Finance’s plan to accept losses on their holdings
of Greek debt, the Frankfurt-based bank said it reduced its
risks linked to Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece and Spain by 70
percent in the first half. In Italy, the lender cut its exposure
to 996 million euros ($1.4 billion) from 8.01 billion euros.  The decision helped the bank to escape losses on Italian
bonds, which have since slumped on speculation the country will
struggle to finance its deficit. It prompted an investigation by
Italy’s securities watchdog and has also opened the bank to
criticism it helped undermine confidence in the country. That
may damage the lender’s franchise in a country where households
save more than other Europeans and pay higher bank fees.  “The signal was that Deutsche Bank thought Italian bonds
would fall,” said  Dirk Becker , an analyst with Kepler Capital
Markets in Frankfurt who recommends that investors buy Deutsche
Bank shares. “The image of a committed bank may have taken some
damage from local businesses and politicians.”  Italian bonds have given investors a loss of 5.8 percent
since the end of June and Spanish bonds a 2.5 percent loss,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German  government
bonds  earned 4.6 percent in the same period, the data show.  ‘The Right Thing’  Ackermann “did the right thing -- prices fell and they
were hedged,” said Kepler’s Becker. “Risk reduction is logical
and part of a bank executive’s job.”  Deutsche Bank cut exposures it took on as part of its
acquisition of  Deutsche Postbank AG (DPB) , Chief Financial Officer
Stefan Krause said on a July 26 conference call. In a letter to
Italian daily Corriere della Sera published on July 29, Deutsche
Bank’s top executive in Italy, Flavio Valeri, said most of the
reduction happened in the first quarter and wasn’t linked to the
turmoil that swept European markets at the end of July. A
spokesman for the bank confirmed the contents of the letter.  The difference in yield, or spread, between Italian 10-year
bonds and similar-maturity German debt surged 147 basis points
to 333 basis points in July and reached a euro-era record of 389
basis points Aug. 4. The spread for Spanish notes rose by 112
basis points in July. A basis point is 0.01 percentage points.  ‘Message’ to Investors  “Deutsche Bank’s buying of protection would have impacted
on Italian spreads both because of the transactions themselves
and the message it sends to other investors,” said Giorgio Questa, a finance professor at Cass Business School in  London 
and a former banker. “Investors watch what Deutsche Bank does
in the fixed-income market.”  Deutsche Bank took on Postbank’s exposures at market value,
 Ronald Weichert , a company spokesman, said by telephone. The
lender holds the majority of its remaining peripheral exposures
on its trading book, he said. Valeri and Ackermann, through
their spokesmen, declined to be interviewed for this article.  Banks pledged on July 21 to participate in a bond exchange
and debt buyback program as part of a new rescue package for
 Greece . The lenders will voluntarily agree to write down the
value of their Greek securities by an average 21 percent as part
of the plan.  “The private investor community will benefit from a more
stable financial and economic environment,” Ackermann said in a
July 21 statement issued by the IIF. “This offer can contribute
substantially to improving the competitiveness of the  Greek
economy .”  ‘Two Levels’  Ackermann, 63, mediated between banks and lawmakers as they
wrangled over the role for investors in the bailout.  “There have always been two levels at Deutsche Bank -- one
where the CEO is involved in talks with political leaders and
the operating level where they have to maneuver a situation,”
said Manfred Jaisfeld, a National Bank AG analyst in Essen, who
recommends investors buy Deutsche Bank shares. “Hindsight is
20-20, but Deutsche Bank has shown that compared to competitors,
they’re better at recognizing risks ahead of time.”  Ackermann counseled German Chancellor Angela Merkel on the
rescue of property lender Hypo Real Estate Holding AG in 2008,
and stood beside Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  on June 30
in Berlin to announce an agreement by banks and insurers to roll
over Greek debt holdings.  “I know it’s always said that I had a special advisory
relationship,” Ackermann said in an ARD television interview
broadcast in August last year. “I didn’t. I always told Mrs.
Merkel clearly that I am primarily a Deutsche Bank employee and
cannot give advice against the interest of Deutsche Bank. One
shouldn’t do that and can’t do that.”  Rome  Bond  Deutsche Bank started in Italy in 1883, when it helped to
underwrite a bond sale for the city of Rome and introduced the
securities to the Berlin stock exchange, according to its
 website . The lender, which opened an office in Milan in 1977,
had 274 Italian branches and about 2.9 million customers at the
end of March.  The bank remains committed to the Italian market and has
recently approved a 270 million-euro capital increase for its
local unit, according to Valeri. The lender plans to open about
30 branches and recruit more than 200 financial advisers in
Italy this year, and has increased credit lines for customers in
the country by 25 percent in the last 18 months, Valeri wrote.  ‘Active in Italy’  Italy accounted for 48 percent of the 1.7 billion euros in
revenue from Deutsche Bank’s retail operations outside  Germany ,
which focus on wealthy clients, the company said in a
 presentation  posted on its website in June. The country was the
largest contributor in a group including  India , Belgium,
 Portugal ,  Poland , Spain and  China .  Italian households saved a gross 14.2 percent of their
gross disposable income  in 2007 , more than the 10.8 percent
average of the 27-member European Union, according to the bloc’s
statistics office in Luxembourg. Italy and Spain “have the most
costly accounts in the EU,” according to a  2009 report  on
consumer current account prices for the European Commission.  “They’re very active in Italy and it may have damaged
their image slightly, but their image has benefited from their
financial strength,” said  Christian Hamann , an analyst with
Hamburger Sparkasse who recommends investors hold Deutsche Bank
stock. “It is more important to make a solid impression than to
be seen as just being fair.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  