-- 
Don’t Hold Defense Budget Hostage to Political Dysfunction: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-08T00:00:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/don-t-hold-defense-budget-hostage-to-political-dysfunction-view.html
The Pentagon says it can handle the $325
billion in cuts that will be required during the next decade as part
of the deal that ended the debt-ceiling crisis. But not a penny more.  The deal created a so-called supercommittee composed of six
Democrats and six Republicans, all members of Congress, who are
charged with coming up with $1.5 trillion in additional reductions
by late November, balanced between defense and domestic spending.
If they fail, the budget would be cut automatically, with at least
$500 billion in reductions from the Defense Department.  This proviso is the only significant concession that President
Obama got in the deal, in exchange for giving up on any tax increase
-- and practically everything else. It is supposed to create special
pressure on Republicans in the forthcoming negotiations, as
Republicans are thought (not without reason) to be fond of defense
spending. But the Pentagon, now led by former CIA Director  Leon Panetta , says that cuts of this magnitude would threaten our
security, harm our troops and their families, and so on.  We aren’t especially fond of defense spending. In particular,
we have no idea whether the warnings by Panetta about the terrible
dangers of larger cuts are accurate, or just blowing smoke as part
of the usual budget game. But we do know that making the size of the
Pentagon’s budget dependent on factors that have nothing to do with
national security -- such as the ability of Republicans and Democrats
to get along on a supercommittee -- is an odd way to go about things.
And we know that Panetta’s position -- $325 billion, OK; $326 billion,
disastrous -- isn’t as absurd as it sounds.  Spending on national security is different from other
 government spending . If you have a program like the  National
Endowment for the Arts , for instance, it makes perfect sense to say,
“This is something good for our nation, and we should have as much
of it as we can afford. In good times we should spend more on it,
and in bad times we should spend less.” Other programs, like those
that subsidize  weatherization  of low-income housing, should be more
resistant to cuts, but their budgets ultimately will have to be
affected to some extent by the state of the economy and the
government’s pocketbook.  In the case of national security spending, even minimal
flexibility makes little sense. We should spend every dollar needed
to make us secure, and not a penny more. Obviously we can’t know in
advance what that exact number is. We can argue about it. And we can
assume that the Defense Department will exaggerate it. But we should
try to compute it as best we can, and then apply it. It should not
be part of hostage negotiations over the federal budget.  If there is really an additional $500 billion that can be
squeezed out of Defense without leaving us inadequately protected,
we should go ahead and squeeze now. If taking even $1 billion -- let
alone $500 billion -- out of the Defense budget will do real damage
to national security, then the Pentagon should be exempt from further
cuts.  The one arrangement that makes no sense is a national security
budget contingent on political battles that have nothing to do with
national security.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:  view@bloomberg.net . 