-- 
DuPont’s Solae Venture Said to Get Bids From Tate & Lyle, KKR

-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-08-08T21:04:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/dupont-s-solae-venture-said-to-get-bids-from-tate-lyle-kkr.html
Solae LLC, a soy joint venture owned
by DuPont Co. and  Bunge Ltd. (BG) , has drawn offers from companies
including Royal DSM NV and  Tate & Lyle Plc (TATE) , said three people
with knowledge of the matter.  KKR & Co. and other private-equity firms also bid, said one
of the people, who declined to be identified as the process is
private. Suitors are studying confidential financial information
on the business, which may fetch as much as $1.75 billion, one
person said.  First-round bids came in about two weeks ago, and
interested parties are receiving management presentations, the
people said. Second-round offers for the business, which makes
soy products used in cereal bars, infant formula and milk,
probably will come in after the U.S. Labor Day holiday, said two
of the people. Cargill Inc. looked at Solae and signed a
confidentiality agreement, though it hasn’t made a bid, one
person said.  DuPont and  White Plains , New York-based Bunge created
Solae, which employs about 2,400 people, in 2003 by combining
two businesses. Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont owns 72
percent of Solae, while Bunge owns the rest. The venture’s more
than 1,000 products include soy proteins used in hot cereals,
sports drinks, vegetarian foods and meat products, according to
its  website .  Potential Bidders  Susan Burns, a Bunge spokeswoman, didn’t return a call
seeking comment. Molly Cornbleet, a Solae spokeswoman, and
 Michael Hanretta , a DuPont spokesman, declined to comment. An
external spokesman for London-based Tate & Lyle, a spokeswoman
for Heerlen, Netherlands-based DSM and a spokeswoman for New
York-based KKR also declined to comment. A Cargill spokeswoman
didn’t respond to a call.  Solae management last month began meeting with potential
bidders, including private-equity funds and European strategic
buyers, two people familiar with the matter said July 25. The
sale may fetch about $1.4 billion to $1.75 billion based on
Solae’s annual earnings of about $180 million before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization, the people said. Citigroup
Inc. is advising on the sale process, according to those people.  DuPont is the third-biggest U.S. chemical maker by sales,
trailing  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  The company, led
by Chief Executive Officer  Ellen Kullman , completed the $6.4
billion purchase of food-additives maker Danisco A/S in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  