-- 
Eastern Europe Rate Pressure May Ease as Food-Cost Decline Curbs Inflation

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-08-09T14:21:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/eastern-europe-rate-pressure-may-ease-as-food-cost-decline-curbs-inflation.html
Eastern  Europe ’s policy makers may
have an easier choice between economic growth and  price
stability  after inflation reports this week will probably show
that declining food costs are alleviating price pressures.  The Czech inflation rate dropped for a second month in
July, a report today showed. Romania and  Hungary  will say
inflation slowed last month, while data in Poland and Slovakia
will show the pace of price increases stabilized after slowing
the previous month, according to Bloomberg surveys. Russia’s
July inflation rate fell to the lowest this year, declining more
than economists estimated.  “We’ve seen inflation essentially turn in the region,”
said Simon Quijano-Evans, an economist at  ING Groep NV (INGA)  in
 London . “In addition we’ll start to have central banks becoming
much more dovish. Growth remains on the top of everybody’s list
of priorities.”  Investors have pared rate-increase bets across the region
as inflation is abating, driven in part by the U.S. and euro-
region economies losing steam. In  Poland  and the  Czech Republic ,
forward-rate agreements eliminated bets on quarter-point
increases for the next six months and in Hungary they predict
unchanged rates for the next 12 months.  Growth is replacing inflation as the priority for policy
makers around the world after declines in stock markets wiped
$5.4 trillion off equity values since markets since July 26,
with a cut in the U.S. credit-rating and a slump in Italian and
Spanish debt intensifying threats to the global economy.  ‘Focus Has Shifted’  To reassure investors, Group of Seven nations last weekend
pledged to “take all necessary measures to support financial
stability and growth,” such as injecting liquidity and curbing
disorderly currency moves. The  European Central Bank  signaled it
will buy Italian and Spanish bonds to stem contagion.  “The global focus has shifted in the last three to six
months from fear of inflation to the fear of a double dip in
economic activity,” said  Michael Ganske , head of emerging-
markets research in London at Commerzbank AG,  Germany ’s second-
biggest lender. “Inflation is a problem in emerging markets in
general and also in central and eastern Europe, but I would say
it has more or less peaked.”  Fed, ECB  Federal Reserve policy makers will meet today after the
unprecedented downgrade of the U.S.’s top credit rating shook
investor confidence in America’s economic recovery. Speculation
is growing Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may announce new steps to
pump up growth.  European Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said in an interview with  Austria ’s ORF radio the global
economy may enter a renewed economic slump and the current
situation is reminiscent of the aftermath of the collapse of
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  in 2008.  Inflation in eastern Europe reached a turning point last
month after Europe’s deadly E. coli outbreak brought down food
costs earlier than economists anticipated by affecting demand
for fresh produce.  Russian inflation fell faster than economists expected, led
by fresh fruit and vegetable prices, an Aug. 4 report showed.
The July rate dropped to 9 percent, the lowest since December,
from 9.4 percent the month before, compared with a 9.2 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Ukraine’s inflation unexpectedly slowed in July for the
first time in five months, an Aug. 5 report showed. The
inflation rate declined to 10.6 percent from 11.9 percent in
June.  Czech Inflation Slows  The Czech inflation rate fell to a lower-than-expected 1.7
percent in July from 1.8 percent June, the statistics office
said today in Prague.  Romania ’s inflation rate probably declined
to 5.3 percent, from 7.9 percent in June, a separate survey of
economists predicts before tomorrow’s data release.  Hungarian consumer-price growth probably slowed to 3.4
percent last month from 3.5 percent in June, the lowest since
April 2009, an Aug. 11 report will show, according to a separate
Bloomberg survey. In Poland, where inflation surged to a 10-year
high of 5 percent in May, prices probably declined last month,
the second monthly drop in a row, while the annual rate picked
up to 4.3 percent, from 4.2 percent in June, a survey predicts
for the Aug. 12 release.  ‘Supportive’ Rates  “Inflation should surprise on the downside in the next 12
months,” said  Neil Shearing , a senior emerging-markets
economist at  Capital Economics  in London. With “growth set to
slow next year, monetary policy will therefore remain
supportive.”  Bank Rossii left its refinancing rate unchanged at 8.25
percent last week after inflation slowed and a weakening global
economy threatens to damp demand for the country’s oil and gas
exports. Urals crude,  Russia ’s export blend, slid 6.7 percent
yesterday.  Bets on higher Czech borrowing costs tumbled after central
bank Governor Miroslav Singer said Aug. 4 that Europe’s debt
crisis will delay monetary-policy tightening by about a quarter.
Policy makers last week held the benchmark rate at 0.75 percent
for a 15 month.  The spread between six-month forward-rate agreements and
the three-month Prague interbank-offered rate was 11 basis
points, the lowest since November. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Rate Bets  In Poland, the comparable spread narrowed to minus 2 basis
points, the lowest since August 2009. The Narodowy Bank Polski
on July 6 left the seven-day  interest rate  unchanged at 4.5
percent, after raising it by 1 percentage point this year. The
central bank lowered its forecast for 2012 economic growth to
3.2 percent from 3.6 percent the same day.  Hungarian forward-rate agreements are 8 basis points above
the three-month Budapest interbank offered rate. The benchmark
rate should remain at 6 percent for an “extended period,”
after staying unchanged since January, central bank President
Andras Simor said July 26.  The latest evidence pointed to a region-wide weakening in
economic momentum. Polish, Czech and Hungarian manufacturing
indexes in July signaled a slowdown in economic growth, which
according to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  will allow central bankers
to refrain from raising interest rates.  Purchasing managers’ indexes in the region “remain on a
downward trend suggesting continued growth moderation,
supporting an on-hold monetary policy stance,” Magdalena Polan
and Marek Raczko, London-based economists at Goldman, said in an
e-mailed note on Aug. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  