-- 
ECB Bond Buying May Reach $1.2 Trillion in Creeping Union Germany Opposes

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-08-08T14:37:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/ecb-bond-buying-may-reach-1-2-trillion-in-creeping-union-germany-opposes.html
The  European Central Bank ’s move to
buy Italian and Spanish bonds to tame the region’s debt crisis
marks a step toward the kind of fiscal union that Germany has
opposed since the founding of the single currency.  While investors and economists say tighter fiscal ties and
increased transfers to the financially weak euro states will be
needed to end the financial contagion, purchases of Italian and
Spanish debt that Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc estimates may
eventually reach 850 billion euros ($1.2 trillion) threaten
fresh political fault lines.  “This huge-risk pooling exercise will not come easily and
the risk of political fallout will be large,”  Jacques Cailloux ,
chief European economist at RBS, wrote in a note. “This might
be the necessary and painful step required to pave the way for
the creation of a common debt instrument, the quid pro quo for
this might be the loss of fiscal sovereignty.”  The unwillingness of euro leaders to forge a U.S.-style
federal fiscal union with the monetary union that now joins 17
states has been a handicap that has fueled economic imbalances
in the region, analysts and investors including billionaire
 George Soros  have said. Germany, the biggest euro economy, has
long resisted such a set-up, saying it would discourage member
states from enforcing budgetary rigor.  German Opposition  “We don’t need a fiscal union and we should oppose it
because that would mark a dissolution of responsibilities,”
Michael Meister, the finance spokesman for Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democrats, said in an interview today.  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond fell 82 basis points to
5.277 percent and the Spanish yield slid 89 basis points to 5.16
percent, the biggest one-day drops since the start of the euro.  “You can argue that markets in a sense are pushing toward
fiscal integration,” said Fabio Fois, economist at  Barclays
Capital  in  London . “It’s really, really still a long way off.”  The outcome of  Europe ’s crisis-fighting effort may
determine whether the euro evolves or runs aground on the
concern that its members are too diverse to be united in one
currency if some aren’t willing to abide by the rules and others
won’t aid those in trouble.  Trichet, one of the architects of the Maastricht Treaty
that established the euro, said in June that he favored a
European  Finance Ministry  and giving the EU veto powers of
national budgets.  ‘Too Bold’?  “Would it be too bold, in the economic field, with a
single market, a single currency and a single central bank, to
envisage a ministry of finance of the union?” Trichet said in a
speech in Aachen,  Germany .  German parliamentary leaders rejected a bid last week by
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  to increase the
euro’s 440 billion-euro bailout fund, the European Financial
Stability Facility, which was set up last year to prevent the
crisis that began in Greece from spreading. About 256 billion
euros have been committed to Greece, Ireland and Portugal.  A Merkel coalition ally, the  Christian Social Union , “will
not support this,”  Horst Seehofer , chairman of the party, said
yesterday. The plan “can’t seriously be desired by anyone.”  Merkel allies also repeated their opposition to bonds sold
jointly by euro nations. Klaus-Peter Flosbach, the financial-
policy spokesman in parliament for Merkel’s bloc, said they
“don’t solve the structural problems, but only move them to the
future.”  In  Italy , Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  is being
criticized for effectively relinquishing sovereignty to win
outside financial support.  ‘Political Downgrading’  The government in  Rome  has ceded power to financial markets
and officials in “Brussels, Frankfurt, Berlin, London and  New
York ,” former European Union competition commissioner Mario Monti wrote in an editorial in Milan’s Corriere della Sera
newspaper yesterday. The result is a “political downgrading”
for Italy that will damage potential economic growth, he wrote.  The ECB bought Italian and Spanish government bonds today,
spurring declines in their yields, according to five people with
knowledge of the transactions. Trichet said after an emergency
conference call yesterday with euro-region central bank
governors that the ECB would “actively implement” its bond
buying program.  The bond-buying decision, which came as EU leaders push
their legislatures to approve the additional firepower for the
EFSF agreed on July 21, reflects its status as the only
institution in the 27-nation EU able to act fast enough to
placate bondholders.  Debt Purchases  The ECB has already bought 77 billion euros of Greek,
Portuguese and Irish debt, according to central bank data. Now
the ECB and the EFSF, which is due to take over the bond-buying
once the July 21 overhaul is ratified, are faced with trying to
shore up Italy, with 1.8 trillion euros in debt, more than
Spain,  Greece , Ireland and Portugal combined.  Signatories of 1991’s Maastricht Treaty dodged the issue of
economic union as countries insisted on maintaining control over
their own purse-strings and tax policies. In doing so, they
ignored the Bundesbank’s call for a “comprehensive political
union’” and instead imposed limits on budgets and debts that
have never been enforced.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at   abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  