-- 
ECB Financing to Portuguese Banks Increased to 46 Billion Euros in August

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-09-05T11:55:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/ecb-financing-to-portuguese-lenders-rose-0-8-last-month-on-debt-crisis.html
The  European Central Bank ’s
financing to Portuguese lenders rose for a second month in
August as the debt crisis limited the banks’ ability to borrow.  ECB financing increased to 46 billion euros ($65 billion)
from 44.2 billion euros in July, the Lisbon-based Bank of
Portugal said today on the BPStat portion of its website. ECB
financing levels peaked at 49.1 billion euros in August 2010.  Portugal in April became the third euro-area country to
seek a bailout after Greece and Ireland. It will receive 78
billion euros under the agreement with the  International
Monetary Fund  and the European Union. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  on April 7 said the central bank “encouraged”  Portugal 
to seek aid, adding that the country’s banks needed to reduce
their reliance on ECB funding.  Portuguese lenders have turned to the ECB because the
government’s struggle to narrow its  budget deficit  has
restricted their ability to borrow. The aid plan earmarks 12
billion euros for Portugal’s lenders.  The Bank of Portugal on May 12 said the country’s banks
must have a core Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 9 percent by
the end of this year, as set out in the bailout package. That
ratio must be at least 10 percent by the end of 2012.  All of Portugal’s lenders passed the European Banking
Authority’s stress tests in July with core Tier 1 capital ratios
higher than the 5 percent minimum requirement. Still, Portugal’s
central bank on July 15 said that  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP) 
and Espirito Santo Financial Group SA should reinforce capital
so they can exceed the minimum capital level “even more
comfortably” and established a reference level of 6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  