-- 
ECB Half-Hearted Bond-Buying Program May Backfire: Euro Credit

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-08-08T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/ecb-s-half-hearted-bond-buying-program-risks-backfiring-again-euro-credit.html
The  European Central Bank  will need
to commit more to its Italian and Spanish bond purchases than it
did trying to cap the yields of  Greece , Ireland and Portugal.  Last week’s decision to end an 18-week fast and resume
buying Irish and Portuguese debt wasn’t unanimous, ECB President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said at a press conference that coincided
with the resumption. Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann was
among the dissenters, according to an official familiar with the
discussions. The Aug. 7 statement heralding the extension of
support to Italy and Spain was issued in Trichet’s name.  Italy’s 10-year borrowing cost declined by 81 basis points
to 5.3 percent yesterday, the biggest one-day drop in yields
since the euro was introduced in 1999, after reaching a record
6.4 percent last week.  Spain ’s 10-year yield has shed 110 basis
points in the past week. The European Financial Stability
Facility must be “effectively and rapidly” overhauled to
provide additional firepower, European Union financial services
commissioner  Michel Barnier  said yesterday.  “Whether this will restore confidence is another big
question,” said Nick Firoozye, head of interest-rate strategy
at Nomura International Plc. in London. “Oftentime, the ECB
showed it’s not that committed. Not all ECB members supported
this intervention. The market will need long-term solutions to
back this up and they are still missing. It’s still unclear what
will happen to the EFSF and there’s still doubt if the new
measures will solve the Greek solvency problem.”  ‘Risky Strategy’  The ECB started snapping up Italian and Spanish bonds
yesterday, after  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the U.S. rating by
one level to AA+ with a negative outlook on Aug. 5. Speculation
about that downgrade, combined with concern that the global
economy is stalling, pushed the extra yield investors demand for
holding 10-year Italian and Spanish debt instead of German bunds
to euro-era records last week.  “The buying of Italian and Spanish bonds is a risky
strategy,” said  Charles Diebel , the head of market strategy at
Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in London. “For it to work, the
ECB will have to be very committed. Given the amount of
reticence -- the fact that the decision was not unanimous and
the ECB’s view this is not their job -- the market will soon
test its resolve.”  No Panacea  The ECB began the bond-buying program on May 10 to
stabilize markets rocked by the sovereign-debt crisis. That
didn’t protect Ireland and  Portugal  from following Greece in
requesting financial aid from the EU and the  International
Monetary Fund , and Greece from securing a second bailout last
month.  The central bank has spent 74 billion euros on the program,
which paused from March. Analysts at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc estimate that 850 billion euros ($1.2 trillion) of
bonds might need to be bought.  Yesterday’s purchases helped to narrow the yield spread
between Italian and German debt to 302 basis points after
reaching a euro-era record of 416 on Aug. 5. The yield
difference between Spanish securities and German bonds pulled in
to 289 after rising to a record of 418 last week.  Gains in Italian and Spanish bond prices may prove short-
lived as investors seek to offload their holdings, said  Luca
Cazzulani , a senior fixed-income strategist at UniCredit SpA in
Milan.  “Investors will probably not forget that so far the ECB
buying has worked only temporarily, and has been the prelude to
a fully fledged bailout,” said Cazzulani. “They may be tempted
to sell into strength. The ball is now back in governments’
hands.”  Purchase Program Performance  The yield on two-year Greek notes has risen 21 percentage
points, or 2,100 basis points, since the ECB started its bond-
purchase program. Portuguese 10-year yields have more than
doubled at 10.96 percent in the same period, while Irish 10-year
borrowing costs have climbed 447 basis points to 9.88 percent.  The ECB’s bond purchases also failed to cap increases in
the cost of buying default insurance. Credit-default swaps on
Greek debt increased to 1,690 basis points from 617 when the ECB
initiated its support. Default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent,
should a borrower fail to pay its debts.  Analysts at UniCredit estimate that the central bank may
have to buy as much as 10 percent of outstanding debt over a
longer period of time, possibly more than 30 weeks, to be
successful.  Italy  has the most debt outstanding in the euro
region. Its debt combined with that of Spain is nearly double
the 1.2 trillion euros owed by  Germany , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Inflation Concern  The ECB may be reluctant to boost its market support on
concern the purchases may stoke inflation by increasing the
 money supply , said Mohit Kumar, head of euro-region and U.K.
interest-rate strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in London.  Trichet last week reiterated the ECB’s tough stance on the
need to curb rising prices even as investors scaled back bets on
the central bank adding to its two rate increases this year. The
ECB held its benchmark rate on Aug. 4 at 1.5 percent.  The central bank has warned the region’s governments that
they must convince investors they will curb deficits and pay
their debts on time. Italy must prove it can implement fiscal
reform, while Spain had to push ahead with plans to recapitalize
its banks, said Deutsche Bank’s Kumar.  “What the ECB is trying to do is to prevent the liquidity
problem from becoming a solvency problem,” said Kumar. “In the
end, the success of this intervention depends on Italy’s and
Spain’s ability to prove to the market this is not a solvency
issue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  