-- 
Education Management Violated Student-Aid Rules, U.S. Says

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n   a n d   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 
2011-08-08T21:17:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/education-management-violated-student-aid-rules-u-s-claims.html
Education Management Corp. (EDMC) , the
second-largest U.S. for-profit college chain, used improper
recruitment practices to secure more than $11 billion in U.S.
student aid, prosecutors said in a civil lawsuit.  Education Management, 41 percent owned by  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  funds, illegally paid recruiters based on the number
of students signed up, a violation of rules for colleges that
get U.S. student grants and loans, the  Justice Department  said
today in a complaint filed in federal court in Pittsburgh.  Prosecutors spelled out their case against the company for
the first time since May, when the Justice Department joined an
employee whistleblower suit. Colleges that receive federal aid
are barred from paying recruiters incentives tied to enrollment
because it may encourage companies to register unqualified
students. The government claimed Education Management enrolled
students who appeared to be under the influence of drugs.  Education Management “fraudulently induced” the Education
Department to make the company eligible for more than $11
billion in federal grants and loans since 2003, according to the
complaint. “Each and every one of the claims it submitted or
caused a student to submit violated” the U.S. False Claims Act,
the government said.  States Join Suit  The industry has been under scrutiny by Congress, state
lawmakers and  attorneys general  who are investigating sales
practices and students’ debt loads.  Illinois ,  Florida ,
 California  and  Indiana  have also intervened in the case, and
filed today’s suit along with the Justice Department.  Education Management, based in Pittsburgh, denied violating
government rules.  “The pursuit of this legal action by the federal government
and a handful of states is flat-out wrong,” Bonnie Campbell, a
former Iowa attorney general who is advising Education
Management, said in an e-mailed statement. The company’s
compensation plan “followed the law in both its design and
implementation,” she said.  Charles Miller , a spokesman for the Justice Department,
declined to comment.  Lynntoya  Washington , a former assistant director of
admissions for Education Management, filed her whistleblower
complaint under seal in 2007.  Michael Mahoney , director of
training for the company’s online division and a former car
salesman, joined her.  Whistleblower lawsuits let private citizens file complaints
that may be joined by the government. The citizens collect a
share of any recovery.  ‘Boiler Room’  Education Management fell $2.18, or 11 percent, to $17.21 at
4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares
have dropped 4.9 percent this year.  The company, which enrolls almost 140,000 students,
operates the Art Institute chain, Argosy University, Brown
Mackie College and South University. The company reported $2.89
billion in revenue in the year ended June 30.  Echoing the whistleblower complaint, the  Justice Department 
and four states said recruiters worked in a “boiler-room”
atmosphere where metrics other than enrollment weren’t
considered in compensation and top salespeople received trips to
 Las Vegas  and the Mexican resorts of Puerto Vallarta and Cancun.  Education Management instructed recruiters to enroll
students “regardless of their qualification,” according to the
complaint. Some were unable to write coherently or appeared to
be under the influence of drugs, while others who registered for
online courses didn’t have computers, prosecutors said.  Apollo Case  The Education Department in July moved to make all
incentive compensation for college recruiters illegal, removing
12 types of exemptions or “safe harbors” that were put into
place under President  George W. Bush . The exceptions allowed the
practice when recruiters weren’t paid solely on the basis of
enrollments.  Education Management’s pay plan for recruiters in July of
2003 was designed to comply with these “safe harbors,” said
Campbell, the company adviser.  At least 27 whistleblower cases have been filed against for-
profit colleges under the U.S. False Claims Act since the 1990s,
primarily alleging violations of federal incentive-compensation
rules, according to a December 2009 article by law firm Gibson,
Dunn & Crutcher LLP, which defends companies against such
complaints.  In all but one case, the Justice Department declined to
intervene, according to the article. In that case, prosecutors
joined the suit to address a different issue.  In 2009, Apollo Group Inc., operator of the University of
Phoenix and the nation’s largest chain of for-profit colleges,
agreed to pay $78.5 million to settle a whistleblower lawsuit
also alleging that the company tied employee compensation to
enrollment. The government didn’t join that case. Phoenix-based
Apollo admitted no wrongdoing.  Today’s case is U.S. v. Education Management, 07-cv-00461,
U.S. District Court, Western District of  Pennsylvania 
(Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net ;
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  