-- 
Emerging Market Stocks Post Biggest Drop Since March 2009 on U.S. Rating

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-08-08T21:25:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/emerging-stocks-slump-dragging-index-down-16-from-may-high-on-rating-cut.html
Emerging-market stocks plunged, with
the benchmark index posting its biggest drop since March 2009,
after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S. debt rating.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated 4.9 percent to
990.18 at 5 p.m. in  New York . Brazil’s Bovespa index tumbled 8.1
percent, China’s Shanghai Composite Index fell 3.8 percent and
 Russia ’s Micex Index sank 5.5 percent.  Mexico ’s peso weakened
2.7 percent against the dollar.  The Shanghai Composite and Colombia’s IGBC index both
dropped to levels that are more than 20 percent below highs
reached last year, while the MSCI gauge extended its 2011
retreat to 14 percent after S&P lowered the U.S. one level to
AA+ and kept a “negative” outlook on Aug. 5. Eastern European
currencies declined as Spanish and Italian bonds rallied.  “Friday’s downgrade, along with recent weakness in the
U.S. economic data and the ongoing European sovereign debt
crisis, highlight the external risks currently facing emerging
markets,” RBC Capital Markets strategists led by  Nick Chamie  in
Toronto wrote in an e-mailed note. “We will be watching closely
for signs of stabilization to take advantage of better entry
levels.”  The MSCI index tumbled 8.5 percent last week as gauges of
U.S. manufacturing and consumer spending trailed economists’
estimates, fueling speculation that the world’s largest economy
may fall back into a recession. Industrial, technology and
energy companies have led the five-day slide on concern slowing
exports to the U.S. and  Europe  will curb earnings. About $5.4
trillion in market value has been erased from global equities
since July 26, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Recovery at Risk  “While measures may come to stabilize financial markets,
the key is whether the real economy could settle back into a
recovery track,” said Chu Moon Sung, a Seoul-based fund manager
at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co., which oversees $29
billion. “Volatility will be here for a while.”  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries jumped 34 basis points, or 0.34
percentage point, to 354, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index. It was the biggest increase since March 2009.  Yields on Brazilian interest-rate futures plunged for a
sixth straight day. The yield on the contract due in January
2013 fell 26 basis points to 11.97 percent, the lowest since
November 2010.  Brazil ’s real weakened 3.1 percent, the most
since May 2010, to 1.6263 per dollar.  Fiscal Outlook  The  S&P 500 Index  retreated 6.7 percent. America’s credit
rating may be cut to AA within two years if spending reductions
are lower than agreed to,  interest rates  rise or “new fiscal
pressures” result in higher general government debt, S&P said
after markets closed in New York on Aug. 5. The Treasury
Department said there is “no justifiable rationale” for S&P’s
move.  “Standard & Poor’s potential downgrade of U.S. debt had
been signaled for a few weeks, so it did not come as a complete
surprise,”  Mark Mobius , the executive chairman of Templeton
Asset Management’s emerging markets group, wrote on the fund
company’s website today. “Nonetheless, the initial market
reaction will likely be a high degree of uncertainty and
volatility, since investors will likely not know where to turn
for assets with lower short-term volatility.”  Yuan Strength  The Shanghai Composite fell to the lowest level since July
2010.  China ’s official Xinhua news service said in a commentary
that the U.S. must cure its “addiction” to borrowing. China is
the biggest foreign owner of Treasuries, holding $1.16 trillion
of the notes as of May, Treasury Department data show.  The yuan strengthened the most since April, touching a
record high, after the U.S. downgrade fueled speculation China
will rein in dollar purchases used to limit appreciation. The
yuan rose 0.21 percent to 6.4268 per dollar, according to the
China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The currency touched 6.4250
earlier, the strongest level since the country unified official
and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  The HSI Volatility Index, a measure of option contracts for
 Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index, climbed 6.1 percent today to the
highest level since May 2010. The gauge has jumped 92 percent in
the past five days, the most on record.  India ’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index declined 1.8
percent, Taiwan’s Taiex Index lost 3.8 percent, Indonesia’s
Jakarta Composite Index sank 1.8 percent and South  Korea ’s Kospi
retreated 3.8 percent.  Program trading on Kospi shares was stopped for five
minutes after Kospi 200 Index futures fell more than 5 percent
for more than a minute,  Korea Exchange  said.  “We’re seeing real panic selling,” said Im Jeong Jae, a
Seoul-based  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management
Co., which oversees about $29 billion. “Concerns about global
economic conditions are affecting Asian markets overall. Korea,
which has relatively more liquidity, is feeling a harder
pinch.”  The South African rand weakened 3.9 percent versus the
dollar. Poland’s zloty depreciated 1.1 percent against the euro,
while the Czech koruna strengthened 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  