-- 
Employment Index in U.S. Drops for Third Time in Four Months

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-08-08T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/employment-index-in-u-s-drops-for-third-time-in-four-months.html
A measure of job prospects in the
U.S. fell in July for a third time in four months, reflecting
declines in  consumer confidence  and help-wanted that indicate
payroll gains will fail to accelerate in the second half of the
year.  The Conference Board’s Employment Trends Index decreased
0.3 percent to 100.6 from the prior month’s reading of 100.9,
the New York-based private research group said today. The
measure was up 4 percent from July 2010.  Today’s figures come on the heels of a Labor Department
report last week that showed payrolls rose by 117,000 workers in
July and the  unemployment rate  fell to 9.1 percent as
discouraged workers left the  labor force . Larger job gains are
needed to keep consumers spending and the economy growing.  The index “is signaling employment growth of less than
100,000 per month through the end of 2011,”  Gad Levanon ,
associate director of macroeconomic research at the Conference
Board, said in a statement. “There is simply not enough growth
in production to warrant stronger hiring.”  The Employment Trends Index aggregates eight labor-market
indicators to forecast short-term hiring trends. On average, the
gauge can signal a rebound in hiring as little as three months
before the fact and can predict job declines six to nine months
in advance, the Conference Board said.  An increase in the number of consumers saying jobs were
hard to get in July, and declines in the number of companies
with openings and in those saying available positions were
difficult to fill contributed to the drop in the index.  July Payrolls  The Labor Department’s payrolls report, released on Aug. 5
also showed private employers added 154,000 workers last month,
more than the median estimate in the Bloomberg News survey.  Consumer spending  dropped in June for the first time in
almost two years as a hiring slowdown caused consumers to
retrench. Purchases fell 0.2 percent last month after a 0.1
percent gain the prior month, Commerce Department figures showed
last week.  Slowing sales is one of the reasons  San Jose , California-
based Cisco Systems Inc., the largest networking-equipment
maker, announced last month it plans to eliminate about 6,500
jobs. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. also announced it will cut about
1,000 jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  