-- 
Indian Bond Yields Drop to Seven-Week Low After U.S. Downgrade

-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-08-08T12:35:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/ten-year-indian-bond-yields-drop-to-seven-week-low-after-u-s-downgrade.html
India ’s 10-year bonds rose, driving
yields to a seven-week low, on speculation turmoil in global
financial markets will prompt the central bank to pause
interest-rate increases.  Stocks extended last week’s rout after  Standard & Poor’s 
cut its top  credit rating  for the U.S. to AA+ from AAA, saying a
fiscal consolidation plan fell short of what was need to reduce
“medium-term debt dynamics.” Downside risks to India’s
economic growth may have increased following the ratings move,
the central bank said in a statement today.  “The  Reserve Bank  of India can’t tighten aggressively if
the global scenario deteriorates further,” said Alok Singh, a
Mumbai-based  fund manager  at BNP Paribas Asset Management India
Pvt. “The probability of a pause in rates has increased.”  The yield on the 7.8 percent bonds due April 2021 declined
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 8.26 percent as
of the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s
trading system. It had earlier touched 8.21 percent, the lowest
since June 20.  The RBI has raised the benchmark repurchase rate 11 times
since the start of 2010, last increasing it by 50 basis points
on July 26 to 8 percent to damp inflation.  The central bank is monitoring global developments and the
impact on India’s currency and macroeconomic stability, the
statement said. “We will respond quickly and appropriately to
the evolving situation,” according to the statement.  India’s economy  may expand 7.2 percent in the year through
March, less than an earlier prediction of 7.7 percent, according
to an Aug. 1 research report from Morgan Stanley. The prime
minister’s council projected 8.2 percent growth from 9 percent
previously on the same day.  The recent developments in the U.S. and the euro area could
have some impact on India, Pranab Mukherjee, India’s finance
minister, said in a statement today.  The softening of global commodity prices will help maintain
the country’s fiscal deficit and check inflation, Mukherjee said.  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs,
declined 21 basis points to 7.78 percent, the lowest level since
April 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  