-- 
Ending the Moral Rot on Wall Street, Part 1: William D. Cohan

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 
2011-08-08T00:00:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/ending-moral-rot-on-wall-street-part-1-commentary-by-william-d-cohan.html
What will it take for Americans to
finally get the message that much of  Wall Street , in its current
form, is a corrupt enterprise in need of a top-to-bottom
overhaul, a task that the year-old Dodd-Frank law, for all its
verbosity, barely attempts?  There is ample evidence in the detritus left behind by the
ebb tide of the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression. There are the thorough -- and thoroughly damning --
reports (along with thousands of pages of accompanying internal
Wall Street documents) produced by the Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission and the Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations. More was exposed by  Anton Valukas , the chairman
of the Chicago law firm Jenner & Block LLP, in his  investigation 
of the accounting shenanigans engaged in by a handful of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s executives in the months leading up to
that firm’s spectacular bankruptcy in September 2008.  Each examination revealed layer upon layer of behavior that
should make us seethe with anger. These include the decision to
manufacture and sell mortgage-backed securities that were
stuffed with loans of questionable value, plus the worthless AAA
ratings placed on them by ratings services paid by Wall Street
to do so. Also the business model that encouraged bankers and
traders to take asynchronous risk with other peoples’ money with
the knowledge that by the time things went wrong, billions of
bonus dollars would be paid out, and no effort would be made to
hold anyone accountable.  Legal Record  Then there is the surfeit of lawsuits brought against Wall
Street -- some since settled, some ongoing -- that add to our
understanding of the deception. One example: the $550 million
fine -- one of the largest ever -- that  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
paid in July 2010 to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The
penalty was assessed to settle a civil lawsuit questioning
whether the bank provided enough information to investors about
the efficacy of a squirrelly synthetic collateralized-debt
obligation it manufactured and sold in April 2007, about four
months after the firm had started to short the mortgage market
with a vengeance.  Documents released along with the lawsuit showed that the
bankers working on the deal, known as ABACUS-AC2007, questioned
its efficacy. One of them,  Fabrice Tourre , a Goldman vice
president, wrote in a January 2007 e-mail that he was “standing
in the middle of all these complex, highly levered, exotic
trades he created without necessarily understanding all the
implications of those monstruosities!!! Anyway, not feeling too
guilty about this, the real purpose of my job is to make capital
markets more efficient and ultimately provide the US consumer
with more efficient ways to leverage and finance himself, so
there is a humble, noble and ethical reason for my job ...
amazing how good I am at convincing myself!!!”  ‘Fabulous Fab’  In the same note, Tourre confided that there was “more and
more leverage in the system ... the entire system is about to
crumble at any moment ... The only potential survivor, the
fabulous Fab.”  If this weren’t cynical enough, Goldman had by that time
decided to make a huge proprietary bet against the mortgage
market, while continuing to sell mortgage-backed securities to
investors at 100 cents on the dollar. In 2007 alone, that short
bet made Goldman almost $4 billion, almost a quarter of the
$17.2 billion in pretax profit the firm made that year. Yet it
didn’t disclose its short to the market until Oct. 4, 2007, well
after the money had been made, and then only in an obscure
letter to the SEC.  No Crime  “During most of 2007, we maintained a net short sub-prime
position and therefore stood to benefit from declining prices in
the mortgage market,” the letter said. Apparently, there’s no
crime in this kind of behavior. There should be.  Goldman wasn’t the only bank to display ethically
challenged behavior. Consider the $154 million fine that
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  paid to the SEC in June 2011 for doing
pretty much the same thing. Or look at the $75 million fine that
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  paid to the SEC in July 2010 for misrepresenting
its balance-sheet exposure to mortgage-backed securities. Citi
told investors it had $13 billion of exposure when it really had
$50 billion.  Or there was the agreement by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  in
February 2010 to pay the SEC a $150 million fine to settle
charges that it misled its shareholders to persuade them to
approve its September 2008 acquisition of Merrill Lynch & Co.
Inc. The bank failed to tell its stakeholders that Merrill had
paid its employees billions in bonuses at the same time it was
losing billions in income.  ‘Half-Baked Justice’  Had the truth been known, Bank of America’s shareholders
might have voted to scuttle the deal. But the firm’s executives,
as well as the federal government, didn’t want that outcome, so
they kept silent, and the deal went through unaltered. The
federal judge who approved the settlement -- after the amount
was increased almost fivefold -- correctly described it as
“half-baked justice.”  Then there is the still-pending civil lawsuit filed by
 Preet Bharara , the U.S. attorney in  Manhattan , against a
mortgage-lending unit of Deutsche Bank AG, accusing it of lying
about the quality of the home loans it issued. The U.S. is
demanding repayment of hundreds of millions in losses suffered
by the government. The Deutsche Bank unit “indulged in the
worst of the industry’s lending practices,” Bharara said.  Boon for Lawyers  There’s much, much more. Indeed, the word at many Manhattan
law firms these days is that legal action related to the
financial crisis is keeping litigation departments busier than
at any time before.  Was all of this immoral, unethical and illegal behavior a
mere aberration, brought on in the years leading up to the
financial crisis by an atypical combination of greed and hubris?  Sadly, no. Rather, it was of a piece with a continuous line
of dubious behavior that has characterized parts of Wall Street
for generations. In 1929, Goldman’s partners -- including the
revered Sidney Weinberg, who led the firm for almost 40 years --
manipulated the stock of the Goldman Sachs Trading Corp., its
publicly traded investment trust, to drive its price higher to
win shareholder approval for a merger with another publicly
traded investment trust. When the crash hit in October 1929,
investors in the trading corporation lost almost everything and
Goldman Sachs itself was nearly bankrupted.  Then there was Goldman’s self-serving behavior during the
months leading up to the bankruptcy of the Penn Central Corp.,
in 1970 -- the largest failure to that date. Once again, Goldman
almost went bankrupt as a result of defrauding its clients.  Analysts’ Conflicts  The most recent incidents weren’t even the first time in
the first decade of the 21st century that Wall Street got
collectively strung up. In April 2003,  New York  Attorney General
 Eliot Spitzer  orchestrated a $1.4 billion “global settlement”
between his state, the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange and
10 of the then-largest Wall Street firms, to penalize the banks
for creating blatant conflicts of interest between their equity-
research departments and their investment-banking divisions.  Spitzer’s investigation showed that Wall Street was willing
to craft its research to its clients’ liking in exchange for
investment-banking business, primarily in the form of
assignments to underwrite lucrative IPOs of hot, technology
companies.  One of the more painful facts about the recent financial
crisis -- the consequences of which we are still suffering -- is
that it was entirely avoidable. Doing so, however, would have
required Wall Street’s bankers, traders and executives to show a
certain self-enlightened prudence about the mountain of risk
they were scaling rather than be driven by collective greed.  Washington  Nexus  In other words, there might well have been a very different
outcome to the events of 2007 and 2008 had Wall Street behaved
as if it had genuine accountability for its actions, as it did
when firms were private partnerships where stakeholders had
their net worth on the line. Instead, the financial industry
figured it would get bailed out by its friends in Washington
because it was too interconnected to be allowed to fail.  That Wall Street executives have been able to avoid any
shred of responsibility for their actions in the years leading
up to the crisis speaks volumes not only about an abject ethical
deterioration but also about the unhealthy alliance that exists
between the powerful in Washington and their patrons in New York.
Our collective failure to demand redress against a Wall Street
culture that remains out of control is one of the more troubling
facts of life in America today.  ‘Say Ka-ching’  You would think that in the wake of the trillions of
dollars spent bailing out Wall Street, a measure of contrition
would be forthcoming. You would be wrong. While the rest of the
country continued to suffer genuine economic hardship in 2010,
bankers and traders and executives received about $150 billion
in compensation. Is it any wonder then that we are repulsed when
we come across the gloating of a banker at JPMorgan Chase, who
upon being congratulated by a colleague for being hired to
restructure the debt of one of the worst deals of the past
decade -- the $8.5 billion leverage-larded acquisition of the
Tribune Co. by the Chicago investor  Sam Zell  in December 2007  -
- replied: “Tnx dude. Can you say ka-ching?”  This decay of Wall Street mores hasn’t gone unnoticed -- at
least not by Bharara, the U.S. attorney for the Southern
District of New York. In a speech in June to a group of
financial journalists, a few weeks after his office won the
high-profile conviction of the hedge-fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam 
on 14 charges of  insider trading , he wondered about the
implications of widespread illegal behavior.  Rampant Corruption  “The bigger and better question may not be whether insider
trading is rampant, but whether corporate corruption in general
is rampant, whether ethical bankruptcy is on the rise, whether
corrupt business models are becoming more common?”  “Some of the most egregious securities frauds,” he added,
have occurred “in some of the most prominent and powerful,
publicly traded companies, consulting firms, accounting firms,
and even law firms.”  These crimes are being committed, he said, by people who
“have already made more money than could ever be spent in one
lifetime and achieved more impressive success than could ever be
chronicled in one obituary. And it begs the question, is
corporate culture becoming increasingly corrupt?”  Yes, it certainly does raise that question.  In a subsequent column, I will propose some measures to
restore public confidence in Wall Street.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article: William D. Cohan
at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 