-- 
Tepco May Take More Fukushima Losses

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-08-09T02:19:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/tepco-may-announce-more-fukushima-losses-in-quarterly-earnings.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. reports
earnings for the April-June period today, its first release of a
quarterly financial statement since an earthquake and tsunami
crippled its Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.  The utility known as Tepco may report a loss of more than
500 billion yen ($6.4 billion), the Nikkei newspaper  said  today,
without citing anyone. Tepco in May announced a loss of 1.25
trillion yen, the biggest for a non-financial company in  Japan ,
for the year through March to take charges for the accident.
Tepco is due to announce its earnings at 3 p.m. local time.  The company may face as much as 11 trillion yen in claims
after the March 11 quake and tsunami caused three reactor
meltdowns, Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit said in
March. Radiation leaks forced 160,000 residents to evacuate. The
utility may take a charge of 500 billion yen for the quarter to
make provision for damages, the Nikkei said.  “Nobody thinks the compensation payments will be less than
1 trillion yen, but Tepco won’t book charges like that because
it would bankrupt the company,” Reiji Ogino, an analyst at
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley in  Tokyo , said yesterday.  Shares of the company fell 11 percent to 345 yen as of
10:56 a.m. on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the biggest drop in
almost two weeks.  Asset Sales  Tepco in May booked a 1.1 trillion yen charge for
containing the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl in 1986 and
the company plans to raise 600 billion yen from selling assets.
It will complete plans to reorganize by the end of the year.  The company will probably have to take more charges for the
quarter for work to stop radiation leaks at the Fukushima
station, which is located about 220 kilometers (137 miles) north
of Tokyo, Ogino said.  Tepco needs to decontaminate millions of liters of water
that flooded basements after being poured onto reactors when
cooling systems were knocked out.  The company started construction of a backup water
treatment system after it encountered problems with equipment
supplied by Areva SA and Kurion Inc. Tepco has not yet provided
costs for the backup system.  Among other construction plans at the plant, the utility
aims to build underground barriers to prevent radioactive water
from leaking into the environment, which may cost more than 100
billion yen, the Mainichi newspaper reported earlier.  Compensation Law  Tepco spokeswoman Ai Tanaka declined to comment on detailed
costs of the plans at the station. The company issued a
statement today saying it wasn’t the source of the report on its
earnings.  The government plans to establish a state-backed entity
with 2 trillion yen of funding to help Tepco compensate those
affected by the nuclear disaster, Trade and Industry Minister
 Banri Kaieda  said.  Japan’s biggest utility also has a higher fuel bill to pay
for thermal power generation after the quake knocked out nuclear
capacity, Ogino said.  Thermal generation by Japanese utilities rose 17.5 percent
in June as power companies including Chubu Electric Power Co.
boosted the use of coal, oil and gas-fired stations to fill in
for nuclear reactors, either forced to shut in the disaster or
idled for regular maintenance.  Chubu Electric estimates its costs may rise by about 300
billion yen after it closed its sole nuclear power plant to
strengthen tsunami defenses, it said on July 29.  Tepco will join other utilities such as Kansai Electric
Power Co. and Kyushu Electric Power Co. in avoiding or revising
full-year profit forecasts, Ogino said. “There is no way Tepco
can provide a forecast,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  