-- 
Commodities Slump as U.S. Rating Cut May Worsen Slowdown, Eroding Demand

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-08-08T10:44:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/metals-grains-drop-as-u-s-downgrade-signals-economic-recovery-may-falter.html
Commodities extended the biggest
weekly drop in three months on speculation the U.S. credit-
rating cut will worsen the economic slowdown, eroding demand.
Gold climbed to a record as investors sought a haven.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
fell as much as 2.5 percent and was down 2 percent by 11:41 a.m.
in  London . The measure lost 5.9 percent last week, the
most since the start of May. Crude oil led the decline, sliding
as much as much as 4.3 percent in  New York . Gold for immediate
delivery soared as much as 3.1 percent.  Group of Seven nations said they will take every action
necessary to stabilize financial markets after S&P lowered the
U.S. rating by one level to AA+. Policy makers held emergency
conference calls over the weekend to stave off a collapse in
confidence that has already wiped out about $5.4 trillion in
global equity values since July 26. The  European Central Bank 
signaled it’s ready to start buying Italian and Spanish bonds.  “Since early March, we have witnessed a slowdown in
physical demand for commodities,” Walter de Wet, head of
commodity research at Standard Bank Plc in London, said today in
a report. “The biggest immediate risk to commodity prices is
not the actual downgrade but a further rise in global economic
uncertainty and policy risk.”  The S&P GSCI index has tumbled 17 percent from this year’s
high on April 11 as global manufacturing activity tracked by a
JPMorgan Chase & Co. index showed the slowest expansion since
July 2009. As investors’ confidence “was fragile already,”
they may further liquidate positions including in commodities,
de Wet said.  Gold Holdings  Money managers cut their net-long positions in 18
commodities by 3.6 percent to 1.23 million futures and options
contracts in the week ended Aug. 2, government data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Bullish gold holdings climbed to the highest
level since at least June 2006 amid surging demand for an
investment haven, while those of crude oil slumped by 16
percent, the most since Jan. 25.  Crude oil for September delivery dropped 3.3 percent to
$83.99 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The price
fell 9.2 percent last week, a second weekly drop.  The pace of global economic growth, slower than previously
expected, is still “sufficient to tighten key commodity
markets” including crude oil and copper, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. commodity analyst  Jeffrey Currie  in London said
today in a report. The bank maintained its recommendations to
investors to stay “long” commodities.  Gold, Silver  Gold for immediate delivery climbed to a record $1,715.75
an ounce today as investors sought to protect their wealth.
Goldman analyst  David Greely  raised the price estimate for gold
in 12 months by 7.5 percent to $1,860 an ounce, according to a
report dated yesterday.  “Despite this rally, the rise in  gold prices  has continued
to lag the plunge in U.S. real interest rates,” the analysts
said, citing a yield decline in 10-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, or TIPS. Inflation-adjusted gold prices
remain “well-below their 1980 highs,” they said.  Silver jumped as much as 5.3 percent to $40.39.  Double-Dip Risk  The  U.S. economy  is heading into a “double-dip”
recession,  Nouriel Roubini , the co-founder and chairman of New
York-based Roubini Global Economics LLC, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television. The European Central Bank can’t keep
buying Italian and Spanish bonds for too long, he said. Advanced
economies, including  Japan  and the U.K., are in trouble, Roubini
said.  Copper for delivery in three months fell 0.7 percent to
$8,976 a ton and aluminum climbed 1.2 percent to $2,431 a ton.  Wheat for December delivery dropped as much as 3.5 percent
to $6.98 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade. Corn for
December delivery declined as much as 2.1 percent to $6.88 a
bushel and soybeans fell as much as 1.5 percent to $13.16 a
bushel, the lowest intraday price since July 6.  -- With assistance from Shamim Adam in  Singapore . Editors:
 Richard Dobson , James Poole  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in London at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  