-- 
EU Crisis Fix Lies in Deployment of Tools, Not More Summits, Katainen Says

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-08-09T14:32:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/eu-crisis-fix-lies-in-deployment-of-tools-not-more-summits-katainen-says.html
Europe ’s best bet to escape the debt
crisis threatening to engulf Italy and Spain is to implement
measures already agreed on immediately instead of searching for
new tools,  Finland ’s Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said.  “Implementing the existing measures is the way to
reinforce trust in the European financial system, not by coming
up with new measures all the time,” Katainen said in a phone
interview yesterday from Helsinki. “We’re not warming up to any
new innovations concerning the European Financial Stability
Facility.”  The euro area’s deepening debt crisis forced the  European
Central Bank  to re-enter bond markets last week as it seeks to
stem investor concern that policy makers have run out of tools
to prevent contagion. The ECB yesterday began buying bonds sold
by  Italy  and Spain in an effort to halt a sell-off and persuade
investors that the euro area’s third- and fourth-biggest
economies won’t need bailouts.  Europe’s leaders on July 21 empowered their 440-billion
euro ($625 billion) rescue fund to buy debt across stressed euro
nations, to aid troubled banks and to offer credit-lines to
repel speculators.  Italian and Spanish yields eased yesterday after the ECB
stepped in to try to bring the two countries’ borrowing costs
below the 6 percent they reached last week. The agreed overhaul
of the EFSF must be “effectively and rapidly put in place” to
provide additional firepower, European Union financial services
commissioner  Michel Barnier  said yesterday.  Yields Easing  Italy’s 10-year yield slipped 17 basis points today to 5.1
percent, while  Spain ’s yield on similar-maturity debt shed 16
basis points to 5 percent.  Katainen’s comments were echoed yesterday by Greek Foreign
Minister Stavros Lambrinidis, who at a meeting with his
Norwegian counterpart in Oslo said the euro area doesn’t need
another crisis summit.  German officials yesterday rejected adding to EFSF capital
because such a move wouldn’t address problems in the region’s
most indebted countries and “misses the point,” said Michael Meister, the finance spokesman for  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
Christian Democrats.  Communicate Clearly  “We shouldn’t have a debate whether any changes have to be
made to what was agreed” at the July 21 summit, Meister said.
“We must communicate clearly that what has been decided will be
implemented and that those responsible in the countries
concerned have to do their homework,” he said.  Investors should give full credit to Italy for speeding up
its austerity measures and targeting structural changes,
Katainen said. Italy plans to erase last year’s 4.6 percent
budget deficit of gross domestic product by 2013, Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi  said on Aug. 6. That’s a year earlier than
previously targeted.  The U.S. lost its AAA rating at  Standard & Poor’s  on Aug.
5, “adding to the markets’ worries and uncertainty,” Katainen
said. The downgrade of the world’s biggest economy by one level
to AA+ sent shares tumbling and pushed gold past a record $1,700
an ounce. Italian and Spanish yields eased after the ECB bought
bonds sold by the two countries.  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings last week
affirmed their top ratings on  U.S. debt .  ‘August Panic’  The stock-market sell-off is “a typical August panic,”
Katainen said. “Many in the financial markets are on holiday
and the thin markets mean single trades can move markets.
Turbulence on the markets is unnecessarily big.”  Still, there is a risk of financial markets freezing, which
could cause problems for companies, Katainen said in a speech in
Sochi today, after meeting his Russian counterpart  Vladimir Putin .  Finland’s ratification of the new EFSF rules is due in the
autumn after parliament convenes on Sept. 6, Katainen said. The
vote could be brought forward if deemed necessary, he said.  The spread, or difference in yield, between Finland’s five-
year note and German bunds of a similar maturity increased to
40.7 basis points at 9:35 a.m. in  London  from yesterday’s 34
basis points, remaining the smallest in the euro area. One basis
point is 0.01 percentage point. The Nasdaq  OMX Helsinki 25 index (HEX25) 
slid for the 11th day, its longest streak of losses in more than
two decades.  Voter disgruntlement over bailing out the euro region’s
fiscal profligates led AAA rated Finland to try and cap its
liabilities by calling for collateral in exchange for new loans.
Nothing could persuade Finland to abandon these demands,
Katainen said.  “We’re working with  Greece  to find the best way to do
it,” Katainen said. “I believe we can find a solution without
any problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  