-- 
European Equities Decline for Seventh Day, Entering Bear Market

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-08-08T16:15:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/european-stocks-halt-selloff-as-ecb-buys-bonds-santander-surges.html
European stocks dropped for a seventh
day to their lowest level since August 2009 as  Standard & Poor’s 
downgrade of U.S. sovereign debt overshadowed the  European
Central Bank ’s purchase of Spanish and Italian  government bonds .  Mining companies, carmakers and technology firms paced the
selloff amid concern that the lowering of America’s credit
rating will exacerbate the economic slowdown. Spanish lenders
retreated even after the ECB was said to buy the country’s
government bonds in a bid to tame the region’s debt crisis.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropped 4.1 percent to
228.98 at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London , for its biggest retreat
since March 2009. The gauge tumbled 9.9 percent last week and
has now fallen 21 percent from this year’s high on Feb. 17,
entering a so-called  bear market , amid concern the global
economic recovery is at risk.  “Macro is clearly dominating at the moment -- it’s going
to feel like we are dipping in and out of a recession for the
immediate future,” said  David Hussey , head of European equities
at Manulife Asset Management who helps oversee $218 billion.
“It’s the wrong time to panic; you have to be measured and wait
and see.”  European and U.S. stocks last week posted their biggest
weekly selloffs since November 2008 as investors fled equities
after U.S. manufacturing and consumer-spending data heightened
speculation that economic growth may be faltering.  Asian equities extended the global rout today after S&P
downgraded the U.S.’s sovereign-debt rating by one level to AA+
on Aug. 5 and maintained its “negative” outlook, citing
political failure to reduce record deficits.  Group of Seven  The Group of Seven nations pledged to “take all necessary
measures to support financial stability and growth,” seeking to
head off a collapse in investor confidence. Officials will
inject liquidity and act against disorderly currency moves as
needed, they said in a statement after a call late yesterday
European time.  Even so, the  VStoxx Index (V2X) , which measures the cost of
protecting against a decline in shares on the Euro Stoxx 50
Index, climbed 15 percent to 45.3, climbing for a ninth straight
day, extending its longest rising streak on record.  National benchmark indexes retreated in all 18 western
European markets.  France ’s  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  dropped 4.7 percent,
 Germany ’s  DAX Index (DAX)  declined 5 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100
Index slid 3.4 percent.  Spain ’s IBEX 35 Index and Italy’s FTSE
MIB Index lost 2.4 percent. Both gauges jumped more than 4
percent earlier today.  ‘Synchronized Slowdown’  “The downgrade is just one factor in a very broad issue --
this is becoming a synchronized global growth slowdown,” said
Ian Harnett, heard of European strategy at Absolute Strategy
Research Ltd. on Bloomberg Television. “Markets on both sides
of the Atlantic are discounting not only a recession, but
actually a very aggressive recession.”  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company,
plunged 5.1 percent to 1,846 pence as commodities extended their
biggest weekly drop in three months amid concern that the
economic slowdown may erode demand. Anglo American Plc lost 6.2
percent to 2,365 pence and Rio Tinto Group sank 6.5 percent to
3,387.5 pence.  Separately, Rio Tinto and Mitsubishi Corp. offered A$1.49
billion ($1.54 billion) for the shares in Coal & Allied
Industries Ltd. they don’t own to take the coal miner private.  PSA Peugeot Citroen, which was today downgraded by Morgan
Stanley to “underweight,” led carmakers lower, tumbling 9.1
percent to 20.38 euros.  Daimler AG (DAI)  sank 7.1 percent to 39.01
euros and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  retreated 6.1 percent to 108.95 euros.  Among technology companies, Alcatel-Lucent SA plunged 9.7
percent to 2.22 euros,  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  lost 8.3 percent
to 5.45 euros and  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  decreased 8.3 percent to 464
pence.  Spanish Lenders  Spanish banks retreated even after the ECB was said to buy
Spanish and Italian government bonds.  In a statement after an emergency Governing Council
conference call last night, the ECB said it will “actively
implement” its bond-purchase program. The bank also called on
all euro-area governments to follow through on the steps they
agreed to on July 21, including allowing the European Financial
Stability Facility to purchase bonds on the secondary market.  Santander, Spain’s largest lender, fell 1.2 percent to 6.37
euros and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  declined 1.8
percent to 6.38 euros in Madrid trading.  France’s  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA sank 8.4 percent to 25.13
euros in Paris. The nation’s second-biggest bank and UniCredit
denied a report in the Mail on Sunday that the lenders may
require a bailout. UniCredit gained 0.4 percent to 1.07 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer in London at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ; 