-- 
ECB Said to Buy Bonds of Italy, Spain to Cap Gain in Yields

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-08-08T17:09:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/european-central-bank-said-to-be-buying-italian-spanish-government-bonds.html
The  European Central Bank  bought
Italian and Spanish government bonds amid concern their rising
bond yields may force the two countries to seek bailouts,
according to six people with knowledge of the transactions.  The ECB later bought Irish and Portuguese bonds, said two
of the people, who asked not to be identified because the deals
are confidential. The ECB said last night it will “actively
implement” its bond-purchase program, signaling it is ready to
start buying Italian and Spanish securities to counter the
sovereign-debt crisis. A spokeswoman for the central bank
declined to comment today.  “I don’t think  Italy  and  Spain  are insolvent, but the
problem they are facing now is a lack of buyers in a highly
risk-averse environment,” said  Peter Schaffrik , head of
European interest-rate strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in
London. “They need an official buyer to replace the eroding
buyer’s base for now.”  The ECB may have spent more than 10 billion euros ($14
billion) buying peripheral bonds, with purchases “heavily
concentrated” in Italian bonds, according to Ciaran O’Hagan,
the head of European interest-rate strategy at Societe Generale
SA in Paris.  Bond Yields Slide  The yield on 10-year Italian bonds fell as much as 82 basis
points to 5.26 percent today, the biggest one-day drop in yields
since the euro was introduced in 1999. The yield difference
between Italian debt and German bunds narrowed to 303 basis
points after reaching the euro-era record of 416 basis points
last week. Spanish 10-year yields slid 88 basis points to 5.16
percent as of 5:58 p.m. in  London .  ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet detailed the steps Italy
must take to overhaul its economy in a letter sent late last
week to Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, Corriere della Sera
reported today.  The letter, also signed by Bank of Italy Governor Mario Draghi, urged the Italian government to speed up asset sales,
including local state-owned companies, and to liberalize the
labor market by making it easier to fire full-time private- and
public-sector employees, Corriere said. The steps were to be
carried out in exchange for the ECB buying Italian bonds, the
Milan daily said.  ECB Buying  With governments failing to act swiftly enough to stop
contagion from  Greece ’s fiscal meltdown, it has fallen to the
ECB to battle a crisis that’s now threatening the survival of
the euro. Buying Italian and Spanish debt may require the ECB to
massively expand its balance sheet and open it to accusations of
bailing out profligate nations, breaching a key principle in the
euro’s founding treaty.  Germany ’s Bundesbank opposes the move.  The ECB began the bond-buying program on May 10, 2010, to
stabilize markets rocked by the region’s fiscal crisis. That
didn’t stop Ireland and Portugal from following Greece in
requesting financial aid from the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund , with Greece receiving a second
bailout last month.  The ECB paused its program from March until Aug. 4. The
central bank’s bond purchases differ from so-called quantitative
easing policies pursued by the  Federal Reserve  and  Bank of
England  because the central bank mops up the liquidity created
by the purchases, meaning the net effect on the money supply is
neutral. The move is aimed primarily at reducing volatility in
the market.  ‘Markets Fragile’  The buying of Italian and Spanish bonds by the ECB came
after  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the U.S. one level to AA+ on
Aug. 5 while keeping the outlook at “negative” as it becomes
less confident the country will be able to reduce its spending.  The credit rating cut, combined with concern that the
global economy is stalling, prompted investors to flee high-
yielding assets in favor of havens.  “Financial markets are already fragile on weak and
vulnerable growth prospects, particularly in the advanced
economy,”  Societe Generale  analysts including Stephen Gallagher
in  New York  wrote in an e-mailed note on Aug. 7. “The S&P move
is not good news. Brace for turmoil in next few days or weeks
and a negative reaction for risk assets.”  Stocks fell around the world, with the MSCI World Index
slumping 3.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  