-- 
European Stocks Fall 21% From High as Banks, Mining Shares Drop

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-08-08T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/european-stocks-fall-21-from-high-as-banks-mining-shares-drop.html
European stocks slid for a seventh
day, pushing the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index down 21 percent from its
February high and into a so-called bear market, on concern that
 Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of the U.S.’s sovereign rating and
the region’s credit crisis will lead to a global recession.  Financial shares, commodity companies and technology
suppliers led the retreat in the Stoxx 600 from the gauge’s 2
1/2-year high on Feb. 17. The industries dropped more than 25
percent.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s biggest mortgage
lender, and Commerzbank AG,  Germany ’s second-largest bank, paced
losses in financial shares.  Rio Tinto  Group and  ArcelorMittal (MT) 
led basic-resource shares lower.  The Stoxx 600 slid 4.1 percent to 228.98 yesterday, its
lowest level since August 2009. The measure has declined 21
percent from this year’s high on Feb. 17 amid mounting
speculation that Europe will fail to contain its sovereign-debt
crisis and that the economic recovery is faltering in the U.S.
Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX)  also entered a bear market today, joining
national indexes in France, Switzerland, Austria, Spain and
Italy.  The debt downgrade “has touched the idea we have of the
U.S. as a powerful nation,” said Emmanuel Soupre, who helps
oversee $7 billion at Neuflize Private Assets in Paris. “It’s
created a phenomenon of vulnerability. Investors fear the
possibility of a very strong economic slowdown.”  The Stoxx 600 last week extended losses from this year’s
peak to more than 10 percent, a retreat known as a correction.  European Stocks Volatility  The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , which measures the cost of protecting
against a decline in shares on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, has
surged 88 percent over the past nine days for its longest streak
of gains on record.  S&P lowered the U.S.’s long-term rating one level to AA+
after markets closed on Aug. 5, while maintaining its
“negative” outlook as the New York-based ratings company
became less confident that Congress will end the Bush-era tax
cuts or tackle entitlements.  European stocks dropped the most since March 2009 yesterday
even after the  European Central Bank  was said to have bought
Spanish and Italian government debt. The ECB had already
purchased 77 billion euros ($109.4 billion) of Greek, Portuguese
and Irish debt, according to central bank data.  A U.S. report that showed the economy added more jobs than
estimated in July failed to allay concern that the global
economy is stalling. Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded last
month at the slowest pace since 2009, according to a report on
Aug. 1. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
 U.S. economy , dropped to 52.7 in July from 53.3 in June, another
report showed on Aug. 3.  Portugal ,  Greece , Ireland  In April, Portugal followed Greece and Ireland to become
the third euro-area nation to seek a rescue from the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund . S&P has reduced its
rating on Greece to CC, two steps above default, from BB+ on
Feb. 17, and Moody’s has cut its stance to Ca from Ba1.  Euro-area leaders announced 159 billion euros in additional
aid for Greece on July 21 and cajoled bondholders into footing
part of the bill.  More European companies have missed analysts’ estimates
since July 11 than have beaten them. About 47 percent of
companies in the Stoxx 600 have posted earnings that fell short
of projections, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
compared with 43 percent that have exceeded forecasts.  The valuation of the Stoxx 600 has fallen to 9.3 times its
companies’ forecast earnings, from 11.5 times at the measure’s
peak this year, Bloomberg data show. That’s the cheapest since
March 2009.  European Lenders Tumble  The Stoxx 600 Banks Index has plunged 35 percent since Feb.
17, the largest decline of the 19 industries in the Stoxx 600,
as results from bank stress tests failed to relieve concern that
they have insufficient capital.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s
second-biggest bank, sank 57 percent, while Lloyds Banking Group
Plc, the U.K.’s largest mortgage lender, retreated 53 percent.
 Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR)  tumbled 57 percent.  Unione di Banche Italiane
ScpA (UBI)  lost 63 percent.  Raw-material stocks declined 31 percent, the second-worst
performing industry, as metal prices retreated.  Rio Tinto, the world’s second-biggest mining company,
plunged 25 percent and  BHP Billiton , the largest, dropped 24
percent.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , the part-owner of the world’s
biggest platinum and diamond producers, decreased 28 percent.
ArcelorMittal declined 42 percent as investors speculated that
the economic slowdown in the U.S. will damp demand for steel.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  fell 48 percent, leading technology shares lower.
The company had its debt rating lowered by S&P on Aug. 2. S&P
cited the Finnish company’s losses in smartphone market share as
it switches to Microsoft Corp.’s Windows Phone operating system.
Nokia reported its first quarterly loss since 2009 on July 21
after handset sales slumped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  