-- 
Europe Gasoline Crack Down; Shell, BP Sell Barges: Oil Products

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 
2011-08-08T13:14:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/europe-gasoline-crack-down-shell-bp-sell-barges-oil-products.html
European gasoline’s premium to  Brent
crude , or crack, dropped to the lowest level in six weeks.  Gasoil on the ICE Futures Europe exchange traded in
backwardation for a second day. Royal Dutch Shell Plc sold on
the gasoline barge market, where prices were little changed.  Light Products  The front-month gasoline crack dropped to $5.70 a barrel as
of 1:11 p.m. London time, according to PVM Oil Associates Ltd.
data on Bloomberg. That’s the lowest level since June 27.  Motor fuel demand in the U.S., an export market for
European refiners, was 2.8 percent lower in the last week of
July than a year earlier, according to the  Department of Energy .
The four-week average for demand is also falling.  Gasoline for immediate loading in northwest  Europe  traded
from $980 to $981 a metric ton, according to a Bloomberg survey
of traders and brokers monitoring the Argus Bulletin Board.
Deals were done from $967 to $997 a ton at the end of last week.  BP Plc was also among sellers of Eurobob fuel, to which
ethanol is added before being sold to motorists. A barge deal is
for no more than 5,000 tons.  Middle Distillates  Gasoil for August delivery dropped $15, or 1.6 percent, to
$897.50 a ton as of 1:36 p.m. local time on ICE. The contract
traded at 50 cents more than September gasoil.  When a futures contract closest to expiry costs more than
later-dated contracts a market is described as being in
backwardation. A backwardated market usually signals rising
demand or reduced supply. The opposite structure is known as
contango. Gasoil is mainly used in heating.  Long, or bullish managed-money bets on gasoil futures and
options were at 63,745 contracts last week, according to ICE
data published today on its website. That’s up 13 percent from
last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  