-- 
Europe Investor Confidence Plunges Most on Record on Debt Crises

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-08-08T08:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/europe-investor-confidence-plunges-most-on-record-on-debt-crises.html
European investor confidence posted
the steepest decline on record in August after stock indexes
around the world tumbled amid debt crises that threaten to push
the global economy into recession, Sentix said.  An index measuring sentiment in the 17-nation euro region
fell to minus 13.5 from 5.3 in July, the Limburg, Germany-based
research institute said in an e-mailed statement today. A gauge
of current business conditions dropped to 3.5 from 19.25. An
indicator of expectations declined to minus 29 from minus 7.75.  Some $5.4 trillion has been wiped off equity markets since
July 26 after Europe’s debt crisis spilled into Italy and  Spain 
and the U.S. saw its  credit rating  cut for the first time in
response to a debt-ceiling impasse that pushed the world’s
largest economy to the edge of default. The Group of Seven
nations last night sought to head off a collapse in investor
confidence, pledging to inject liquidity and act against
disorderly currency moves as needed.  “The mix of EU debt problems, the inability of politicians
to act and the disputes in the U.S. about raising the debt
ceiling unnerved investors significantly,”  Sentix  said in the
statement. “Storm clouds have gathered over the world economic
outlook and a global recession is on the horizon.”  European services and manufacturing growth weakened in July
to the slowest pace since the euro area emerged from recession
two years ago, and signs are increasing that the debt crisis,
which has already forced  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek
bailouts, is starting to weigh on confidence in the region’s
core economies. In  Germany , investor sentiment dropped to a 2
1/2-year low last month and business confidence waned.  ECB Pledge  After an emergency Governing Council conference call last
night, European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet
signaled he’s ready to start buying Italian and Spanish bonds to
safeguard the common currency after the two nations’ bond yields
surged to records last week. The ECB restarted its bond-purchase
program on Aug. 4 after an 18-week hiatus and extended unlimited
liquidity provision to the region’s banks through the end of the
year to calm markets.  The Frankfurt-based institution currently holds about 74
billion euros ($106 billion) of bonds from distressed euro-
region governments.  The  U.S. economy  grew less than forecast in the second
quarter and service industries expanded in July at the slowest
pace in 17 months, indicating the biggest part of the world’s
largest economy had little spark as the second half of the year
began. The Federal Open Market Committee, which has kept
 interest rates  close to zero since 2008 and oversaw the
completion of $600 billion in Treasury purchases in June, will
meet tomorrow.  ‘Questionable’ Conditions  “Countries’ questionable financial conditions raise the
question among many investors of how governments and central
banks can address a potential recession,” Sentix said. “The
answer of politicians to pump more liquidity into financial
markets through more debt is causing more and more discontent.”  A gauge of investor confidence in the U.S. plunged to minus
25.5 from minus 8. Indices for  Japan , the rest of  Asia ,  Latin
America  and Eastern  Europe  also declined, today’s report showed.  Sentix said 822 investors participated in its monthly
survey, which was conducted between August 4 and August 6. The
results are never revised.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  