-- 
Euro Crisis May Pack U.S. Banks With Deposits They Can’t Use

-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-08-08T15:55:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/euro-crisis-may-pack-u-s-banks-with-deposits-they-can-t-deploy.html
The European debt crisis is poised to
flood U.S. banks with something they don’t want and can’t use:
more money.  Cash held by U.S. banks surged 8.4 percent to a record $981
billion during the week ending July 27, the  Federal Reserve  said
in an Aug. 5 report. That’s more than triple the amount firms
had in July 2008, before the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. almost froze bank-to-bank lending.  Even more money may be deposited with U.S. lenders if
investors pull away from European banks amid concern the Greek
debt crisis may spread to Italy or beyond, said Brian Smedley, a
strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York. Those
funds may not be so welcome: With few opportunities to lend them
out profitably, U.S. firms may have to slap fees on depositors
to keep returns from eroding.  “It becomes a loser to hold these excess deposits,” said
Bert Ely, a bank-industry consultant in Alexandria, Virginia.
“At the margin they have to think, ‘What can we do with $50
million of deposits?’ The answer is not much.”  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the world’s largest custody
bank, announced plans last week to charge institutional clients
for unusually high balances above $50 million. In a letter to
customers, the New York-based firm said it’s “taking steps to
pass on costs incurred from sudden and significant increases in
U.S. dollar deposits” linked to events including the Greek
crisis and the uncertainty over the U.S. debt-ceiling debate.  ‘Getting More Worrisome’  The increasing reluctance of European banks to lend to each
other has been on display since early last week. The so-called
Euribor-to-Overnight-Indexed-Swap spread, which reflects the
comparatively higher risk of lending euros for three months
versus overnight, widened to 0.57 percentage point today. The
rate compares with 0.36 percentage point at the start of last
week and 0.32 percentage point a year ago.  The European Central Bank today started buying Italian and
Spanish assets in an attempt to halt the region’s sovereign debt
crisis. The ECB bought Italian and Spanish bonds this morning,
according to five people with knowledge of the transactions,
driving their 10-year yields down to 5.39 percent and 5.3
percent respectively from above 6 percent on Friday. Both
reached euro-era records last week.  “Things in the European  interbank market  have gotten very
slow, and it’s only getting more worrisome by the day,” said
 Carl Lantz , the New York-based head of interest-rate strategy at
Credit Suisse Group AG. “It’s safe to say it feels like 2008 in
the European funding markets.”  Credit-Default Swaps  By contrast, the U.S. Libor-OIS spread -- a stress
barometer for dollar-based bank-to-bank lending markets -- stood
at 0.19 percentage point today, down from 0.24 percentage point
a year ago.  “For U.S. banks, the liquidity profile and the interbank
market is in a much stronger position than what is going on in
 Europe ,” said Jonathan Hatcher, a Jefferies Group Inc. credit
strategist specializing in banks.  Among the world’s biggest banks, nine of the 10 perceived
as the most likely to default are European, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Credit-default swaps on Milan-based  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  surged 23
percent last week to 360 basis points, indicating an investor
would have to pay $360,000 a year to insure $10 million of debt.
For Bilbao, Spain-based  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , such
swaps climbed 13 percent to 314 basis points. Among the largest
U.S. banks,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  had the highest price at 207
basis points, followed by Morgan Stanley at 200 basis points,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  at 166 basis points and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
at 162 basis points.  ‘Enormous’ Liquidity  The relative ease in dollar interbank markets stems partly
from the $2.3 trillion the Fed has pumped into global financial
markets since November 2008 through its purchases of Treasuries,
mortgage bonds and agency debt. Fed balances stood at $1.62
trillion as of Aug. 3, up from $1.05 trillion a year ago, $718
billion in August 2009 and $10.3 billion in August 2008, before
the U.S. mortgage crisis.  “There’s an enormous amount of dollar liquidity because of
what the Fed has done in recent years,” said Raymond Stone, who
tracks U.S. money markets as a managing partner at Stone &
McCarthy Research Associates in Princeton,  New Jersey . “That
certainly helps.”  JPMorgan Deposits  Most of the largest U.S. banks have increased their
deposits. JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s deposits rose almost 13 percent
to $1.05 trillion at the end of June, from $930 billion at the
end of December. Bank of America’s deposits climbed 3 percent to
$1.04 trillion from $1.01 trillion.  Since late 2008, the Fed has been paying interest on
deposits placed with the central bank, known as interest on
excess reserves, or IOER. That rate is currently set at 25 basis
points, or 0.25 percent.  At that rate, banks may struggle to profit from even non-
interest-paying deposits, because the companies must pay
premiums to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. when they route
the money to the Fed. On April 1, the FDIC changed its
methodology for assessing premiums, resulting in an increased
cost for most large banks. Because a deposit at the Fed is
technically an asset, taking the money may stretch banks’
capital-to-asset ratios, which are watched by regulators,  Joseph Abate , a money-market analyst at  Barclays Capital  in  New York ,
wrote in an Aug. 5 report.  ‘Hot Potato’  “The higher deposit cost, the potential need for
additional capital and the flight-prone nature of these balances
clearly outweigh the 25-basis-point return from IOER that they
would earn depositing the money at the Fed,” Abate wrote. Any
reduction in IOER -- a move Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told
Congress in July might be possible -- may create a “serial
round of deposit fees” since banks would try to “push cash
from their balance sheets” like a game of “hot potato.”  In hot potato, players toss a beanbag to each other, trying
to get rid of it as quickly as possible so they aren’t holding
it when the music stops.  “Domestic banks will work very hard to shed those surplus
reserves,” said  Lou Crandall , chief economist at Wrightson, a
 Jersey City , New Jersey-based unit of London-based ICAP Plc, the
world’s largest inter-dealer broker. “They’re not eager to
expand their balance sheets with low-yielding assets even when
they earn a small positive spread.”  Economic Slowdown  Slowing economic growth has capped demand for new loans,
the biggest category of investments for most banks. Deposits
held at U.S. domestically chartered commercial banks climbed 16
percent in the past 31 months to $7.38 trillion, while loans
fell 6.4 percent, according to the Fed.  Yields on securities and loans have been dragged down by
the Fed’s keeping benchmark rates near zero since December 2008,
said  Nancy Bush , contributing editor at SNL Financial, a bank
research firm in Charlottesville, Virginia. That means new
investments will bring lower yields than those already on bank
balance sheets, eroding profitability, she said.  “The one thing I’ve learned over the years is that banks
lead us into recessions and they lead us out,” Bush said.
“They were in the process of leading us out. They were liquid
and recapitalized, and they had the willingness to lend to that
marginal creditworthy borrower. Now that entire thesis is thrown
into question.”  Deposit growth may accelerate if money-market funds that
lend to European banks redirect their investments to U.S. banks,
said Bank of America’s Smedley, a former senior trader and
analyst in the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s markets group.  ‘Very Connected’  Prime U.S. money funds had about $800 billion, or half
their assets as of May 31, in securities issued by European
banks, according to  Fitch Ratings . A Greek default could
threaten European banks that have lent to  Greece  and other
heavily indebted European countries.  During the week of July 27, cash held by U.S. branches and
agencies of foreign banks fell by $65.7 billion, the second
straight weekly decline, according to the Aug. 5 Fed report. At
domestically chartered U.S. banks, cash swelled by $76.2
billion.  “The global banks around the world are all very connected,
and they’re connected through the funding markets,” Smedley
said. “There’s no doubt that if there is an escalation in
concerns about Spain and  Italy  at the sovereign level, and that
spills over to the broader European banking system, it would
most likely lead to an increase in funding costs in the markets
where those banks are active.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  