-- 
European Regulators Won’t Follow Greece’s Ban on Short-Selling

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-08-08T17:39:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/european-regulators-won-t-follow-greece-s-ban-on-short-selling.html
European regulators are unlikely to
follow  Greece ’s unilateral ban on short-selling, implemented as
benchmark equity indexes for  Europe  tumbled.  Greece’s securities regulator banned all short-selling on
the  Athens  exchange for two months starting tomorrow, citing
“extraordinary market conditions prevailing in Greece,”
according to an  e-mailed statement  from the Athens-based
Hellenic Capital Markets Commission today. The European
Securities and Markets Authority said that other national
regulators had no plans to adopt similar measures.  Investors continued to flee equities after  Standard &
Poor’s  downgraded the sovereign-debt rating for the U.S. by one
level to AA+ on Aug. 5 and maintained its “negative” outlook.
The ASE Index in Athens fell 6 percent today, the biggest
decline in more than a year, closing at 998.24, the lowest level
since January 1997, according to Bloomberg data.  “This will reduce the pressure on Greek shares, at least
for some time,”  Eddy Wymeersch , former chairman of the
 Committee of European Securities Regulators , or CESR, said in a
telephone interview today. “The question is what happens to
international exchange-traded funds with Greek shares. It will
be difficult to enforce the ban on transactions outside of
Greece.”  National Decision  ESMA, the European Union agency that oversees national
regulators, said that Greece implemented a national decision and
didn’t coordinate with others.  “To our knowledge, at present, other supervisors will not
be implementing similar bans, although this is always kept under
review,” said Victoria Powell, an ESMA spokeswoman in Paris.  Germany  last year banned naked short-selling and
speculating on European  government bonds  with credit-default
swaps in an effort to calm the region’s financial markets. The
move caused stocks around the world to drop and the euro traded
near a four-year low against the dollar. No other European
regulators followed the ban.  “The German ban was largely a political move,” Wymeersch
said. “The Greek ban seems more like a real move to stop the
downward trend in Greek shares.”  Italy’s securities markets regulator, Consob, has no
“current plan” to ban short-selling, according to an official at
the Rome-based watchdog.  Belgium’s Financial Services and Markets Authority has “no
plans” to extend its existing ban on short selling, Jim Lannoo,
a spokesman for the FSMA said in a telephone interview. The ban
is limited to so-called naked short sales of some financial
stocks including  Dexia SA (DEXB)  and KBC Groep NV, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  