-- 
Mexico’s Cordero Expects Central Bank to Diversify Assets

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r
-- 
2011-08-08T22:12:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/mexico-s-cordero-expects-central-bank-to-diversify-assets-1-.html
Mexican Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said the nation’s reserves haven’t lost value due to
market volatility and that its credit rating won’t be affected
by a downgrade of the U.S. by Standard & Poor’s.  “We don’t believe that this event has affected the outlook
on Mexico’s rating for the moment,” Cordero wrote in an e-
mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News. “Going
forward, we expect Banco de Mexico to continue its policy of
risk management and diversification.”  Mexico’s benchmark IPC stock index plunged 5.9 percent to
31,715.78 today, following declines in worldwide markets after
S&P downgraded the U.S. to AA+ from AAA on Aug. 5. The peso
weakened 2.8 percent against the  U.S. dollar  to 12.3251.  Cordero said Mexico’s  credit rating  of BBB by S&P won’t be
affected by the downgrade in the U.S., which buys about 80
percent of Mexico’s exports. Mexico can partially offset a
weaker U.S. economy by stimulating domestic demand and
diversifying trade, especially with faster growing emerging
markets, he said.  “We were able to maintain important growth rates despite
the weakness observed in the U.S. in the first half,” he said.  Mexico’s economy probably expanded 3.5 percent in the
second quarter and will grow 4.3 percent this year, according to
forecasts from the  Finance Ministry . The economy grew 4.6
percent in the first quarter.  U.S. gross domestic product grew 1.3 percent in the second
quarter and 0.4 percent in the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in  Mexico  City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Roeder at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  