-- 
Mexican Peso Drops to Weakest Level in 2011 on U.S. Downgrade

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-08-08T21:33:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/mexico-peso-weakens-to-lowest-since-february-on-u-s-s-rating-downgrade.html
Mexico’s peso dropped to the lowest
this year after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the AAA rating on debt
issued by the U.S., the country’s biggest trading partner.  The peso fell 2.7 percent to 12.3253 per  U.S. dollar  at 5
p.m. New York time, the weakest since Dec. 31, from 11.9914 on
Aug. 5. The drop erased most of this year’s gain, leaving the
currency up 0.1 percent for the year.  S&P lowered the U.S. long-term rating one level to AA+
after markets closed on Aug. 5 in the country’s first-ever
reduction. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed
their top ratings on Aug. 2 after President Barack Obama signed
a bill raising the country’s debt ceiling and avoiding default.
Mexico sends about 80 percent of its exports to the U.S.  “The downgrade and all this starts to impact sentiment in
a bigger way,” said Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a currency
strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“You have some repositioning out of the more liquid, heavily-
owned trades.”  The yield on Mexico’s peso debt due in 2024 rose 9 basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 6.52 percent, according to
Banco Santander SA. The price of the security fell 0.98 centavo
to 130.89 centavos per peso.  Mexico’s rating of BBB, the second-lowest investment grade,
is unlikely to be cut after the downgrade of the U.S., Finance
Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said today in an interview with
Televisa.  Mexico’s economy will grow 4.3 percent this year, Cordero
said in a separate interview with Radio Formula, maintaining the
previous forecast. The economy expanded 5.4 percent last year,
the most in 10 years.  Inflation Outlook  Inflation is “benign” and the central bank has room to
decide when it will raise the benchmark lending rate, the
 International Monetary Fund  said today in a report on the
country’s finances. The economy will expand 4.6 percent this
year, less than the 4.7 percent forecast in June, the IMF said.  “A more protracted slowdown in the U.S., particularly if
it involved manufacturing, would represent a material drag to
Mexico’s growth given its close integration with the  U.S.
economy ,” the IMF said in the report.  Prices rose 3.28 percent in June from a year earlier, near
the central bank’s target of 3 percent and about half of
 Brazil ’s rate. The national statistics agency reports inflation
for July tomorrow.  Traders didn’t trigger any of the dollar options available
today, the central bank said on its website. The bank has been
buying as much as $600 million through the options every month
since March 2010 to bolster foreign reserves. They allow the
central bank to accumulate dollars, insuring against outflows of
capital and limiting the peso’s appreciation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Jonathan J. Levin} in  Mexico  City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
{Andres R. Martinez} in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  