-- 
Exxon, Chevron Fall on Price Concern After U.S. Rating Cut

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-08-08T20:46:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/exxon-chevron-fall-on-oil-price-concern-after-u-s-rating-cut.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and
other energy companies fell the most in more than two years on
concern that a cut in the U.S. debt rating signals lower crude
oil prices, investors and analysts said.  Exxon Mobil, based in Irving, Texas, dropped $4.63, or 6.2
percent, to $70.19 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, wiping out its gain this year. Chevron, based
in San Ramon, California, fell $7.36, or 7.5 percent, to $90.25.
The one-day declines were the steepest since Dec. 1, 2008.  The downgrade of U.S. debt by Standard & Poor’s Aug. 5
crystallized recession concerns based on rising U.S. and
European debt and a U.S. government report last week that those
out of work 27 weeks or more comprise 50 percent of the
unemployed, said James Glickenhaus, who manages about $2 billion
at Glickenhaus & Co. in  New York .  “People are calling up mutual funds, saying, ‘Get me out
of stocks,’” Glickenhaus, said today in an interview.  Widely owned and easily traded stocks like Exxon are part
of the general selloff, he said.  “This is contagion,” Donald Coxe, who manages $500
million at Coxe Advisors in Chicago, said in an interview.
“Gold is going up because of fear the financial system is going
to implode.”  Oil Falls  Gold rose $61.40 to a record $1,713.20 an ounce, up 3.7
percent at today’s close in New York. Crude oil for September
delivery fell $5.57, or 6.4 percent, to $81.31, on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the lowest price since Nov. 23.  “The S&P downgrade confirmed everybody’s fear,”  Fadel Gheit , a New York-based energy analyst for Oppenheimer & Co.
said today in a telephone interview. “Less confidence in the
 U.S. economy  alone will bring the outlook for consumption lower.
We’ll use less oil.”  Quicksilver Resources Inc. (KWK) , based in  Fort Worth , Texas,
fell $2.65, or 23 percent, to $9.10, the lowest price in more
than two years. The oil and natural-gas producer said it will
raise spending 39 percent this year after missing its second-
quarter production target.  “Every company that’s had the big increase in capital
spending has generally taken it on the chin,” said David M. Heikkinen, an analyst at Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. in Houston
who rates Quicksilver “accumulate” and owns none.  Lowering U.S. credit one level to AA+ won’t hurt Exxon
Mobil’s AAA rating, the highest available, Standard & Poor’s
said today in a statement, citing the company’s global and
diverse business lines and its significant financial strength.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net  