-- 
S&P Lowers Fannie, Freddie Citing Reliance on Government

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-08-08T21:24:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/fannie-mae-freddie-mac-ratings-cut-by-s-p-amid-reliance-on-u-s-backing.html
Standard & Poor’s  lowered credit
ratings on debt issued by U.S.-backed lenders including mortgage
giants  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, citing its own Aug. 5
downgrade of the federal government’s AAA status.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which own or guarantee more
than half of the almost $11 trillion in outstanding U.S.
mortgage debt, were lowered one step from AAA to AA+, S&P said
in a statement today. The downgrade reflects their “direct
reliance on the U.S. government,” the ratings firm said.  The two companies have operated under U.S. conservatorship
since September 2008, when they were seized amid subprime
mortgage losses that pushed them toward insolvency. Since then,
the government-sponsored enterprises have drawn almost $170
billion in Treasury Department aid.  In cutting the nation’s credit rating on Aug. 5, S&P
faulted lawmakers for failing to reduce spending or increase
revenue enough to reduce the nation’s budget deficit. Banking
regulators including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said
that day that government-issued securities would be unaffected
by the sovereign downgrade.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency , which regulates Fannie
Mae,  Freddie Mac  and the  Federal Home Loan Banks , sought to
assure investors that the companies’ bonds were sound.  The Treasury’s commitment to provide capital to Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac “remains unaffected by the Standard and Poor’s
action,” FHFA Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco said today in a
written statement.  Fannie Mae, in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing,
said it “could not predict the ultimate impact” of the
downgrade on its operations or financial condition.  Borrowing Costs  Because the U.S. government -- through lenders including
Washington-based Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac of McLean,  Virginia ,
and the home loan banks -- is the country’s central source of
mortgage funding, the downgrade could lead to higher borrowing
costs for homebuyers.  More important, analysts say, S&P’s move adds volatility to
a market already buffeted by foreclosures, losses at the two
GSEs and stagnant home prices. The U.S. Census Bureau reported
last month that the nation’s homeownership rate fell to 65.9
percent, the lowest level since 1998.  “The issue isn’t necessarily where mortgage rates land,
it’s the uncertainty that this kind of thing engenders in the
market, and that creates fear and panic selling,” said Clifford Rossi, a former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  chief risk officer who is now
executive-in-residence at the University of Maryland’s Center
for Financial Policy. “Until we can get some sort of stability,
it’s keeping people on the sidelines,” he said.  Bond Yields  Yields on GSE bonds jumped to their highest relative to
U.S. Treasuries in more than two years. The downgrade was only
part of the reason for the wider spreads, said Walt Schmidt, a
mortgage strategist in Chicago at FTN Financial, in a note to
clients. The spreads are “based on uncertainties regarding
prepayments and supply, not credit-based downgrade fears,”
Schmidt said.  S&P, a unit of New York-based McGraw-Hill Cos., today also
downgraded the long-term senior debt of 10 of the 12 home loan
banks, from AAA to AA+. Home loan banks sell bonds and provide
liquidity to banks and mortgage investors. The banks’ debt has
an implied government guarantee.  “The FHLB system is classified as being almost certain to
receive government support if necessary,” S&P said.  Chicago ,  Seattle   The ratings firm didn’t downgrade the home-loan banks of
Chicago and Seattle, which were already rated AA+. The home loan
bank  system  had more than $809 billion in assets and $551
billion in outstanding bonds at the end of June.  S&P also lowered, by a notch, senior debt issued by the
Farm Credit System, which guarantees agriculture-related loans,
126 securities guaranteed by the FDIC and four securities from a
National Credit Union Association, which guarantees credit union
deposits.  Moody’s Investors Service, an S&P competitor, reiterated
its Aaa bond rating of U.S. sovereign and related debt on Aug.
3, after lawmakers and the White House agreed to raise the
nation’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  