-- 
Fed’s Sheets Quits as Bernanke’s Chief International Adviser

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-08-08T16:08:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/fed-s-d-nathan-sheets-resigns-as-bernanke-s-chief-international-adviser.html
The  Federal Reserve  said D. Nathan Sheets quit as the central bank’s chief international economic
adviser after almost four years in the position and a day before
policy makers meet.  The Fed, in a statement today in Washington, didn’t say why
Sheets, 46, is leaving the institution. As director of the
Division of International Finance, Sheets briefed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and other officials on economic developments outside
the U.S. and represented the Fed at international meetings.  Steven B. Kamin, a deputy director of the division, will
serve as acting director, the Fed said.  Sheets is leaving as European leaders take action to avert
a widening of the continent’s sovereign debt crisis and U.S.
officials gauge reaction to the Aug. 5 downgrade of the
country’s AAA credit rating by  Standard & Poor’s . The  Federal
Open Market Committee  meets tomorrow in Washington.  “Nathan has provided invaluable insight and stellar
leadership at a time of great volatility in the world economy,”
Bernanke said in a statement. “We thank him for his dedicated
service and wish him well.”  Sheets is using annual-leave days between now and his
official departure date of Sept. 9 and won’t attend tomorrow’s
FOMC meeting, said  David Skidmore , a Fed spokesman.  The departure means all three of Bernanke’s top staff
advisers have left their positions or announced their departures
in the last 13 months. Brian Madigan, former director of the
Division of Monetary Affairs, retired last year, while the Fed
said in May that David Stockton, director of the Division of
Research and Statistics, is retiring Sept. 30.  Sheets, who like Bernanke earned a Ph.D. in economics from
the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology , joined the Fed as an
economist in 1993. As division director since September 2007, he
led a staff of about 120.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  