-- 
Fed Officials Should Set Stage for Asset Purchases, Romer Says

-- B y   J i l l i a n   B e r m a n   a n d   C a r o l   M a s s a r
-- 
2011-08-08T21:49:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/fed-officials-should-set-stage-for-asset-purchases-romer-says.html
Federal Reserve officials may be
“softening up the ground” for another round of asset purchases
or another policy change when they meet tomorrow, said  Christina Romer , former chairman of the White House Council of Economic
Advisers.  “It would be unnerving if they were to come out with
something big and bold tomorrow,” Romer, 52, said of the Fed in
a television interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Street
Smart” with  Carol Massar  and  Matt Miller .  “What they probably will and should be doing is softening
up the ground for either some additional quantitative easing,
some change in their overall policy framework or some
communication about what they expect to happen to their balance
sheet,” said Romer, an economics professor at the University of
California, Berkeley and a former chairman of the White House
Council of Economic Advisers.  The Fed in June completed a $600 billion Treasury bond-
purchase program, known as quantitative easing, aimed at
lowering long-term borrowing costs. Today’s drop in global
stocks, further fueled by concerns over  Europe ’s debt crisis,
adds to pressure on the central bank, which is confronting a
slowing U.S. economy and unemployment stuck above 9 percent. The
policy-making  Federal Open Market Committee  plans to hold a
regularly scheduled one-day meeting tomorrow and release a
statement at about 2:15 p.m.  Even as central bankers contend with slow employment growth
and the first downgrade of the nation’s top credit rating, they
will likely take a “balanced approach” in tomorrow’s
statement, Romer said.  “The Fed is in a tough position tomorrow,” she said.
“What we’ve seen coming out of Europe, when the  European
Central Bank  comes out with a dramatic announcement, that tends
to make people more nervous.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jillian Berman in Washington at 
 jberman13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  