-- 
Fleet Advantage Mines Data to Lease More Trucks, Burn Less Diesel

-- B y   A n t o n e   G o n s a l v e s
-- 
2011-08-08T20:04:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/fleet-advantage-mines-data-to-lease-more-trucks-burn-less-diesel.html
In late 2009,  Fleet Advantage  beat three
established truck-leasing companies in a bid to replace and
manage the 1,500 trailers  Costco Wholesale (COST)  uses to carry
food, electronics, and household goods to its more than 400
stores across the U.S.  Fleet’s winning pitch: competitive lease pricing and technology
that tracks such essentials as fuel consumption and driver
behavior to help customers drive down costs. “We’re a penny
business, so it really comes down to the numbers,” says Sarah L.
Mogk, vice-president for depot operations at Costco. “I haven’t
received anything from anyone else that’s even close to what I’m
getting from them.”  The data are gathered from a small computer, called an
electronic control module, installed in each tractor. It
transmits truck-usage information to Fleet Advantage’s
computers, where the company turns the raw data into customized
reports. The analysis Fleet provides separates the 18-employee
company from larger rivals, such as  Penske Truck Leasing (PAG) 
and  Ryder Systems (R) , says Justin Molavi, a trucking and energy
analyst for  Santa Monica , (Calif.) market researcher IBISWorld.
“[Detailed reporting is] definitely unusual, and it’s the
direction the industry has to go,” says Molavi.  Anticipating that a push for efficiency would favor leasing over
buying, John Flynn, a veteran of the trucking industry, launched
the Fort Lauderdale company in 2008. Stricter emissions
standards were driving up the price of new trucks, fuel costs
were rising, and the Great Recession was making companies
nervous about investing in new tractors and trailers that cost
as much as $150,000. He also noticed advancements in data-
gathering and analytics that he could leverage to make his
company stand out. “We understood the value and made an early
investment in multiple technologies, and now it’s really making
a huge difference,” says Flynn, 63.  Fleet Advantage’s 10 clients, including supermarket chain
Associated Food Stores,  BP (BP) , and explosives maker Dyno Nobel
pay to use Fleet’s 3,000 trucks to haul goods around the
country. Flynn expects $100 million in revenue this year, up
from $45 million in 2010, and projects a similar increase in
2012. The industry is growing as well: Spending on truck rental
and leasing is expected to increase from $17.9 billion this year
to $20.8 billion by 2016, according to IBISWorld. Fleet
Advantage targets Fortune 500 companies that rely on leasing
companies to keep hundreds of trucks on the road delivering
their goods.  HOW THE DATA HELP  Flynn says Fleet’s biggest selling point for its clients is its
ability to use data it gathers to show companies when holding on
to an old big rig costs more than leasing a new one. After about
three or four years, maintenance costs, coupled with increases
in diesel prices, make leasing a newer, more fuel-efficient
tractor cheaper, Flynn says. In addition, Fleet’s monitoring of
driver behavior can reduce fuel consumption, a fleet owner’s
largest expense. Diesel prices at $3.95 per gallon in July were
more than 25 percent higher than a year ago, Energy Information
Administration data show. The trucking industry is expected to
spend $142.9 billion for  diesel fuel  this year, up from $101.5
billion in 2010, according to the American Transportation
Research Institute, an affiliate of the trade group the American
Trucking Assns.  Fleet’s tractor leases are for five- to seven-year terms for
$1,200 to $1,400 a month, Flynn says. Maintenance is not
included, and each truck carries a five-year, 500,000-mile
warranty. Trailers are typically for seven- to eight-year terms
for $275 to $300 a month. Fleet Advantage buys trucks from major
manufacturers, including  Daimler Trucks North America (DDAIF) ,
 PACCAR (PCAR) , and  Volvo (VOLVY) . The company will replace a
tractor after three years without penalty. When customers return
trucks, Fleet Advantage sells them to regional truckers.  Flynn expects to double revenue each of the next two years by
leasing its trucks to Fortune 500 companies and expanding into
Canada and  Mexico , where he plans also to lease used equipment.
In 2014 he wants to target smaller companies and start licensing
Fleet’s truck-tracking software to businesses that want to
manage their own fleets. “The real magic sauce is slicing and
dicing the information,” Flynn says.  To contact the reporter on this story: Antone Gonsalves at
 antonegonsalves@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  