-- 
Football Coach Joe Paterno Hurts Arm, Hip in Penn State Practice Collision

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-08-08T20:22:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/football-coach-joe-paterno-hurts-arm-hip-in-penn-state-practice-collision.html
Joe Paterno, who leads major-college
football with 401 coaching wins, injured his right arm and hip
when a player ran into him during practice at Penn State.  Paterno, 84, conducted this morning’s coaches meeting via
speaker phone from Mount Nittany Medical Center, where he’s
undergoing tests after being blindsided yesterday by a player
running a drill on the  State College ,  Pennsylvania , campus, the
school  said on its website .  He walked away after the collision and surgery doesn’t
appear necessary, according to Wayne Sebastianelli, Penn State’s
director of athletic medicine. The school didn’t say whether
Paterno spent the night at the hospital.  “I expect to be back at practice soon,” Paterno said in a
statement. “I’m doing fine; tell everyone not to worry about
me.”  Paterno broke his left leg in a sideline collision with one
of his players during a loss at  Wisconsin  in November 2006,
forcing him to have surgery.  He was taken by ambulance to the hospital in May 2008 and
was treated for dehydration, and then underwent hip-replacement
surgery in November of that year after injuring the hip while
demonstrating an onside kick during a practice the previous
August.  Paterno, who has coached Penn State for 45 years, last
November became the first major-college football coach to tally
400 wins. He’s 401-135-3, having led the Nittany Lions to a 7-6
record last season that included a 37-24 loss to  Florida  in the
Outback Bowl.  Penn State, which is ranked 25th in the USA Today preseason
poll of coaches, begins its 125th campaign Sept. 3 at home
against Indiana State and then hosts  Alabama  a week later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 