-- 
Forint Weakens to Seven-Month Low Versus Euro on U.S. Rating Downgrade

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-08-08T16:06:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/forint-weakens-to-seven-month-low-versus-euro-on-u-s-rating-downgrade.html
Hungarian shares tumbled for a sixth
day, their longest stretch of losses in almost three years, and
the forint weakened after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S. credit
rating, driving investors from riskier assets.  The BUX gauge of 13 companies lost 3.2 percent to 19,112.42
at the 5:06 p.m. close in Budapest, its lowest since September
2009. The forint slid 0.7 percent to 274.24 per euro after
earlier depreciating as much as 2 percent to its lowest in more
than seven months. Versus the Swiss franc, the Hungarian
currency was 1.9 percent weaker at 254.561 after earlier sliding
to 255.784, the weakest since Bloomberg started tracking the
data in 1993.  Stocks sank worldwide and oil fell while gold increased to
a record as the U.S. rating cut fueled concern that the global
economy will slow. The MSCI All-Country World Index declined for
the ninth day in the longest losing streak since July 2008.  “The sell-off seen in risk assets last week is likely to
be perpetuated in the coming days following the ratings
downgrade of the U.S.,” BNP Paribas SA strategists wrote in a
report today. “ Hungary  is particularly vulnerable in our view,
especially following the news last week that local governments
were seeking to extend their franc debt obligations.”  Mol Nyrt., Hungary’s biggest oil refiner, and OTP Bank
Nyrt., the largest lender, lost more than 3 percent today.  Home Loans  The forint last week had its biggest decline versus the
franc, losing 7.1 percent, on concern municipalities struggling
to repay debt will hurt bank earnings and hamper the country’s
economic recovery. Hungary got an international bailout in 2008
and is the European Union’s most-indebted eastern member.  A weaker forint hurts owners of homes bought with foreign-
currency loans as they pay more in local terms, and it risks
boosting bad loans at Hungarian banks. Almost two-thirds of home
mortgages are denominated in foreign currencies, most of them in
francs, according to central bank data as of June 30.  Magyar Telekom Nyrt., Hungary’s former phone monopoly owned
by Deutsche Telekom AG, retreated 2.1 percent to 515 forint, its
lowest close this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  