-- 
Former CBO Directors Say Spending-Cut Trigger May Fire Blanks

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-08-08T17:23:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/former-cbo-directors-say-spending-cut-trigger-may-fire-blanks.html
Congress may undermine the deal that
raised the U.S. debt ceiling by failing to agree on a plan to
curb the deficit and then softening the impact of automatic
spending cuts that would kick in to achieve the budget targets.  That’s the view of five former directors of the
 Congressional Budget Office . Lawmakers on a new committee
charged with deciding on a budget plan will struggle to reach an
accord, even as the  Standard & Poor’s  decision to downgrade U.S.
debt heightens pressure on the panel, some of the ex-CBO chiefs
say. And while the backup mechanism for across-the-board cuts
may be the best compromise for a divided Congress, it’s a flawed
device with a history of failure, they say.  As part of the debt-ceiling law President  Barack Obama 
signed on Aug. 2, the trigger will be activated if the panel of
12 lawmakers can’t agree on at least $1.2 trillion in savings by
Nov. 23 or if Congress rejects a plan they propose. All five ex-
CBO chiefs said there are ways for Congress to circumvent the
trigger, which wouldn’t go into effect until 2013.  “Even if it fires, the question is ‘how many of the
bullets actually hit your body,’” said  Peter Orszag , a onetime
director of the nonpartisan CBO, which reviews congressional
legislation and budgets.  Orszag, who also headed Obama’s budget office, was
skeptical the committee will strike a grand compromise to curb
entitlement spending and rewrite the tax code even after S&P
said on Aug. 5 it was lowering the nation’s AAA credit rating.  Increasing the Pressure  Robert Reischauer, a Democrat who was in charge of the
budget office from 1989 to 1995, said after S&P’s announcement
that the downgrade will “put a great deal of pressure” on the
new joint committee to report out a significant package.  Donald Marron , who was acting CBO chief in 2006, when
 George W. Bush  was president, agreed, saying the downgrade is
“another wake-up call” for Obama and lawmakers to address
deficit issues. Still, he said, “it’s not obvious to me that we
have compromise bursting out all over the next six months.”  Alice Rivlin , a Democrat who was the CBO’s founding
director in 1975, said she’s holding out hope the six Democratic
and six Republican lawmakers on the so-called super committee
will reach a deal to head off the automatic cuts. None of the
lawmakers, who will come from the House and Senate, have been
named yet.  ‘Destined for Failure’  Former Republican Senator  Alan Simpson , co-chairman of the
president’s fiscal commission, said leaders should appoint
members of a separate panel of senators called the Gang of Six,
which recommended a combination of spending cuts and revenue
increases. If they’re not represented “very well on that super
committee, you will know that it has been destined for
failure,” Simpson said on Bloomberg Television.  The trigger mechanism, which would split spending
reductions equally between U.S. defense and domestic programs,
is the product of months of unsuccessful negotiations among
congressional Republicans, Democrats and the White House to
strike a broader deal to rein in entitlement programs like
Medicare and to overhaul the  tax code .  While the cuts are supposed to be automatic, Congress can
delay or override them if they prove too painful -- defense
spending would be reduced by 9.1 percent over a decade while
non-defense programs would be cut 7.9 percent. That’s what
lawmakers did with the 1985 Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Balanced
Budget Act, the template for the trigger.  Not Touching Benefits  The trigger mechanism also won’t include the entitlement-
benefit cuts that rankle Democrats or call for tax increases
reviled by Republicans, both of which may be necessary to pose a
credible threat of mutual pain on the two parties that would
motivate the super committee to reach a compromise.  The legislation calls for the committee to find savings
through spending reductions and tax increases, beyond the $917
billion in cuts that lawmakers agreed to on Aug. 2. If the panel
agrees on a plan, Congress has until Dec. 23 to hold an up-or-
down vote on it or the trigger will be set off, prompting $1.2
trillion in automatic, across-the-board spending cuts over nine
years, beginning in 2013, after the presidential election.  One target would be Medicare, though the spending reduction
would be capped at 2 percent and aimed at health-care providers,
not benefits. Funding would also be threatened for the  National
Institutes of Health , alternative energy programs and hundreds
more government agencies.  Easy to Finesse  The former budget officials say there are various options
for lessening the trigger’s impact, particularly since there
would be a year-long period before it kicks in. “If they want
to finesse it, it’s not hard,” said Rivlin.  The automatic cuts would be spread equally over the
remaining nine-year window of the legislation, based on a
formula drawn up by the White House Office of Management and
Budget. Congress and its committees would then have to hit those
spending targets through the annual appropriations process,
which allocates federal dollars to specific programs.  Congress could delay some of the most politically unpopular
cuts, such as reductions in reimbursement rates to health-care
providers under Medicare, until the final years of the law, the
ex-budget directors said.  Rudy Penner, a Republican who directed the CBO from 1983 to
1987, said he’s “very dubious about the Medicare trigger.”
Marron added that “Long budget windows give you flexibility to
put stuff off.”  ‘Emergency’ Outlet  Lawmakers could also designate new federal spending as
“emergency” funding that falls outside the caps. While the new
law narrowly defines such spending, it’s the same language from
previous budget-restraint agreements, said Orszag, who directed
CBO from 2007 to 2009, and is now a vice chairman of  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and a contributor to Bloomberg View.  “It was just ignored,” he said. “You can always get
Orwellian and call anything an unanticipated event.”  Marron, who now heads the  Urban Institute ’s Tax Policy
Center in Washington, cited spending on the 2000 Census, which
Congress designated as an emergency. “You have this classic
arms race issue, and people become more and more creative about
identifying things as emergencies,” he said.  Finally, lawmakers have no way of preventing future
Congresses from overturning the cutbacks, which was the case
with the 1985 agreement. In the five years the Gramm Rudman law
was in effect, the triggers were activated twice -- one of which
was reduced by Congress and the other overridden by a subsequent
budget agreement.  Still, Rivlin and Reischauer say the law fostered new
spending restraint.  Curbing ‘Spending Appetites’  “It did curb the spending appetites of lawmakers” and
“that certainly will be the case” with the new law, said
Reischauer, now president of the Urban Institute in  Washington .
He said the trigger’s success also hinges on the outcome of the
2012 elections.  The new trigger is better designed because it’s based on
definable spending caps, said Rivlin, who also led President
 Bill Clinton ’s White House budget office. Gramm Rudman was
pegged to deficit targets that depended on economic fluctuations
that Congress can do little to control, she said.  Rivlin, now a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in
Washington, said she’s also more optimistic the trigger will
exert pressure on lawmakers because the debt has reached crisis
proportions unlike previous budget battles.  Reischauer said while he thinks it’s unlikely the trigger
will be strictly upheld, “Were Congress to waive the rules,
evade the discipline, financial markets would mete out
discipline fairly quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in
Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  