-- 
Four Ways Congress Can Upgrade Our Credit Rating: Peter Orszag

-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 
2011-08-08T14:00:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/four-ways-congress-can-upgrade-our-credit-rating-peter-orszag.html
Now that  Standard & Poor's  has
downgraded the U.S.’s AAA credit rating, it is important to
respond boldly and, at the same time, lower expectations.  The first step is for our political leaders to frankly
acknowledge the problems at hand: The  U.S. economy  will
face a hard slog for an extended period; the political
system is polarized; and, under current policies, the
 budget deficit  will remain intractably large.  To respond to these challenges timidly or not at all
would lead to such gloomy outcomes, we might as well think
big.  What bold actions are legislatively feasible? A good
start toward addressing our fiscal problem over the next
decade would be to end all the 2001/2003 tax cuts when they
expire at the end of 2012. And to give the economy a more
immediate boost, Congress should triple the existing 2
percent payroll tax holiday and extend it for as long as
unemployment remains elevated.  Here’s a more specific four-point plan that could be
carried out within the political system we have. To those
who will scoff that even these proposals are politically
impossible, I’d note that the scope for constructive
legislation has now become so narrow and the costs of doing
nothing so high, we need to make ambitious proposals and
hope that the legislative constraints can be adjusted.  First, use this S&P moment to reduce the deficit much
more. The changes should be enacted now but not take effect
immediately, as the economy remains weak. But we must get
it done over the next decade, and we won’t be able to
without substantial revenue.  Tax Cuts Expire  As I have written before, the most straightforward way
to raise the needed revenue is to allow all of the
2001/2003 tax cuts, not only those for high-earners, to
 expire  at the end of next year. That would lower the 10-
year deficit by more than $3 trillion. (Democrats who
bemoan the role of the tax cuts in driving up the deficit
but then favor extending the vast majority of them are
suffering from cognitive dissonance.)  In particular, we shouldn’t extend any of the tax cuts
past 2012 unless every cent is offset through other
measures. On this, the Obama administration, if it chose
this course, would have the legislative upper hand. Since
under current law all of the tax cuts expire, inertia is on
the side of raising revenue. In combination with spending
reductions imposed by the supercommittee created in the
recent deal to raise the debt limit (or if that group
fails, through automatic reductions), ending the tax cuts
would restore a stable debt trajectory for the next decade
even if economic growth is weak, as is likely.  We must also deal with the deficit problem beyond the
coming decade, and in this case revenue will be a much
smaller part of the solution. The most important driver of
our long-term deficit is the cost of health care. The
Affordable Care Act provides tools that can help contain
cost growth; they should be used aggressively. Congress
should expand them, too, especially by enacting  medical
malpractice reform .  In addition, and although it may be difficult,
Congress should try to reform Social Security now. The
economist  Peter Diamond  and I have put forward one variant
of a  progressive reform plan , which would, among other
things, index the program to increases in longevity.  Expect Slow Growth  Second, in the aftermath of the recent recession, we
can expect sluggish economic activity for years, not
quarters, and we face the risk of another recession. Those
who in January were predicting growth of 4 percent or more
for 2011 did not sufficiently appreciate the evidence from
the economists  Carmen Reinhart  and  Kenneth Rogoff  that what
most often comes after a systemic financial collapse is a
decade of weak growth.  So, to avoid overly hasty fiscal contraction and to
promote job growth, we should triple the current payroll-
tax holiday of 2 percentage points. A 6 percent payroll-tax
holiday would amount to about 2 percent of gross domestic
product (and $3,000 for a family earning $50,000 a year),
which could aid a stalling economy.  Rather than simply expand and extend the payroll-tax
holiday, though, we should  tie it to the unemployment rate .
This would cause the break to automatically disappear as
the labor market recovers and to reappear if the economy
weakens again. By both canceling the tax cuts and revising
the payroll-tax holiday, we would not only substantially
improve the 10-year deficit outlook but also provide more
support for the economy now and make the  tax code  more
progressive.  Third, we must learn to live with structural gridlock
and polarization by preventing legislative inertia from
always leading to inaction. We need more mechanisms like
the budget-balancing trigger that is pulled if the
supercommittee fails, more entities like the Independent
Payment Advisory Board whose recommendations for slowing
Medicare costs take effect if Congress doesn’t act, and
more automatic stabilizers (like the payroll-tax holiday
proposed above) that adjust to macroeconomic weakness
without the need for further legislation.  At the same time, the Senate should amend its rules to
require only 50 votes for any deficit-reducing legislation
(not just changes made through the so-called reconciliation
process) and a threshold even higher than 60 votes (perhaps
something more like 75) for any deficit-increasing
legislation unless it is an emergency response to a
recession. That kind of supermajority rule would be vastly
preferable to a balanced-budget amendment, since it would
apply only to what Congress itself does.  Government’s Role  Finally, we should take this opportunity to reconsider
what government should properly do. We need to invest more
in roads, bridges, railroads and the like, and the best way
to do this would be to scrap the present pork-barrel system
and create a new infrastructure bank. We should also expand
tolling and variable-rate pricing for transportation and
water. This would allow us to use the infrastructure we
have more efficiently and also raise money to invest in new
projects.  Other jobs the federal government currently does could
be shifted out of the public sector. Many other nations,
for example, have successfully sold their postal services
and their air-traffic-control systems to private operators.
(Airline regulation should remain a public function.)
Shedding these operations would allow the government to
better focus on key areas such as infrastructure and
education.  Rahm Emanuel , the former White House chief of staff
and now mayor of  Chicago , once famously remarked that one
should never let a serious crisis go to waste. We also
shouldn’t let wasted opportunity lead to a serious crisis.
Let’s double down on support for  job creation  now and,
after an appropriate lag, reduce the deficit more.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 