-- 
Freddie Mac Swings to Loss, Seeks $1.5 Billion in Aid

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-08-08T22:44:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/freddie-mac-swings-to-loss-seeks-1-5-billion-in-treasury-aid.html
Freddie Mac , one of two mortgage-
finance companies under government conservatorship, reported a
$2.1 billion loss for the second quarter and said it will seek
$1.5 billion in U.S. Treasury aid.  Freddie Mac said it needed the infusion from the Treasury
to eliminate a net-worth deficit of $1.5 billion for the three-
month period ending June 30, according to a Securities and
Exchange Commission filing today. The deficit was partly
attributable to a $1.6 billion quarterly dividend payment to the
Treasury Department, the company reported.  The report is a setback for the company, which in May
posted a $676 million first-quarter profit. The loss reported
today compares with a $4.7 billion loss from the same period a
year earlier.  “Labor market weakness and households’ worries about their
financial security dampened home sales during the quarter,”
Chief Executive Officer Charles E. Haldeman said in a written
statement. “While we expect some improvement in home sales
during the second half of the year, our outlook for the single-
family housing market remains cautious.”  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of Freddie Mac debt also
“could adversely affect our liquidity,” the company reported
in its filing.  $170 Billion  Freddie Mac, of McLean,  Virginia , and its larger rival,
Washington-based Fannie Mae, have survived on government aid
since September 2008, when they were seized amid crippling
losses tied to subprime loans. With today’s request, the two
companies have drawn $171 billion in Treasury aid.  Freddie Mac has tapped $66.2 billion in Treasury aid and
paid $13.2 billion to the agency in the form of dividends on the
government’s almost 80 percent stake in the company.  Seriously delinquent single-family mortgages declined to
3.5 percent from 4 percent a year ago, Freddie Mac said. Loans
made from 2005 through 2008 make up most of the non-performing
assets. More recent loans, with more vigorous underwriting and
lower delinquencies, make up about 46 percent of the portfolio,
the company said.  Freddie Mac also continues to shrink its inventory of
foreclosed houses. The cost of maintaining and selling those
properties fell from $257 million in the first quarter to $27
million at the end of June, the company said.  Loans on multi-family properties such as apartment
buildings showed a profit, with net income of $200 million for
the second quarter. Haldeman called the segment a “bright
spot” in the real estate market.  Fannie Mae  reported a $2.9 billion second-quarter loss on
Aug. 5 and requested $5.1 billion in Treasury aid. The company
has drawn $104.8 billion in taxpayer aid and paid $14.7 billion
in dividends to the government.  The two companies own or guarantee about half of the almost
$11 trillion U.S. mortgage market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 