-- 
Fund Manager Aleksander Efrosman Is Extradited From Poland, U.S. Says

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-08-08T17:39:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/fund-manager-aleksander-efrosman-is-extradited-from-poland-u-s-says.html
Aleksander Efrosman, accused of
cheating investors out of millions of dollars that he used for
his own benefit, including gambling more than $3 million, was
extradited from  Poland , the U.S. said.  Efrosman, 49, who controlled foreign-currency hedge funds
Century Maxim Fund Inc. and AJR Capital Inc., was indicted in
2006. He had fled the U.S. with millions of dollars in 2005,
traveling to  Mexico , Panama and then Poland, using the alias
“Mikhail Grosman” and a fraudulent Russian passport, according
to a statement today by U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch in  Brooklyn .  “This defendant allegedly created a web of lies to fleece
unsuspecting investors,” Lynch said in the statement. “He will
now be held to account for the charged crimes.”  Efrosman, a U.S. citizen, was living in Krakow and was
extradited to the U.S. on Aug. 5, according to the statement. He
faces mail-fraud, wire-fraud and money-laundering charges, and a
maximum penalty of 20 years in prison. He was arrested in Poland
on May 28.  He is accused of stealing money from clients who gave him
$5 million in 2004 and 2005. He gambled more than $3 million at
the Foxwoods Resort Casino in Mashantucket,  Connecticut ,
prosecutors said.  His lawyer, Michael Schneider, couldn’t immediately be
reached.  Made Promises  Efrosman, formerly of Staten Island,  New York , was
arraigned Aug. 6 in federal court in Brooklyn, and ordered
detained, according to the statement. He is scheduled to appear
before U.S. District Judge Nicholas G. Garaufis on Aug. 10.  Efrosman defrauded more than 100 investors by telling them
he would invest their money in the stock market and foreign
currency exchange market, according to prosecutors. He falsely
said that he had a history of profitable trading and that he
would use a “stop-loss” mechanism to ensure that no trade
would lose more than 3 percent, according to the government.  Authorities in the U.S. and  Europe  caught Efrosman by
monitoring his associates’ travel, according to an Aug. 5 letter
from Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel A. Spector to U.S.
Magistrate Judge Andrew L. Carter, who ordered Efrosman
detained.  Followed Associates  When the associates arrived in  Austria , authorities from
that country and  Czech Republic  followed the car that picked
them up from the airport, according to the letter. They lost
track of the car as it traveled eastward to Poland. Polish law
enforcement officials used its license-plate number to locate
and apprehend Efrosman in Krakow.  Efrosman fled the country while on supervised release after
leaving prison in April 2003 for a conviction in a foreign
exchange scheme, according to Spector’s letter. He pleaded
guilty in that case after being extradited from  France .  Efrosman perpetrated a third investment fraud while in
 Panama , where he was joined by his wife and children, according
to Spector’s letter.  “Through his various money-laundering operations,”
Spector wrote, “Efrosman is believed to have millions of
dollars at his disposal.”  Efrosman also used the name Alex Besser and his first name
is sometimes spelled Alexsander.  The case is U.S. v. Efrosman, 06-cr-95, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 