-- 
Group of Seven’s Tools May Be Wrong Fit for Stocks Seeing Recession Danger

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-08-08T12:55:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/g-7-vows-to-take-all-necessary-measures-to-stabilize-economies-markets.html
The Group of Seven nations’ pledges
of liquidity injections and exchange-rate cooperation may be
ill-suited to addressing the concern at the heart of the past
week’s stock-market rout: another global recession.  Currency markets  lack the systemic misalignment of the sort
seen with the dollar strength in 1985 that distorted global
demand, according to Atsushi Ito, a senior rate strategist in
Tokyo at UBS AG. With fiscal policies across developed nations
restrained by attempts to shore up sovereign ratings, and U.S.
companies and households boosting their savings, the challenge
this time may be lack of a source of demand to sustain global
growth.  While European banks have faced risks of losses on
securities issued by nations from  Greece  to  Italy , global money
markets show little sign of the types of strains experienced in
2008 that the G-7 combated by pumping cash into the system. The
U.S. Libor-OIS spread -- a stress barometer for dollar-based
bank-to-bank lending markets -- stood at 0.20 percentage point
today, down from 0.22 percentage point a year ago.  “Policy options have become limited,” said Neil Mackinnon, a strategist at VTB Capital in London who previously
worked at the U.K. Treasury. “These problems are not going to
go away anytime soon. They will remain on the agenda for policy
makers particularly as the risk of a global recession
increases.”  G-7 finance ministers and central bank governors committed
in a joint statement today to “coordinated action where
needed,” including ensuring liquidity. They also pledged to
“consult closely in regard to actions in exchange markets.”
The group comprises the U.S., Japan,  Germany , the U.K.,  France ,
 Canada  and Italy.  Equities Slide  Stocks extended last week’s declines, with benchmarks
falling from Tokyo to London, after the G-7 release, which
preceded Asian stock-market trading. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index
slid 2.6 percent, the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slipped 2.1 percent
as of 2:50 p.m. Frankfurt time, and futures contracts on the
 Standard & Poor’s  500 Stock Index lost 2.3 percent.  “I don’t think at this point in time we are looking at any
kind of policy action that will stimulate growth,” even while
the G-7 statement is useful, said Samiran Chakraborty, a Mumbai-
based economist at Standard Chartered Plc. “We have probably
exhausted a lot of our ammunition in fighting the last crisis.
We might not have enough bullets with us to work this time.
That’s where the worry is.”  Fiscal Constraint  President Barack Obama last week enacted a compromise deal
with Congress that raises the nation’s debt ceiling until 2013
and pledges $2.4 trillion in deficit cuts during the next 10
years. Even with that commitment, Standard & Poor’s cut the U.S.
sovereign rating one step to AA+, a move the administration said
was based on flawed spending calculations.  Businesses are also saving, hoarding a record $1.91
trillion in cash and other liquid assets at the end of the first
quarter, a Federal Reserve report showed June 10. U.S.
consumers’ savings rate was 5.4 percent in June, double the
average during 2001-2007 expansion that ended with the mortgage
collapse.  Monetary policy  is constrained by benchmark rates at less
than 1 percent in the U.S., the U.K. and  Japan , and inflation
risks that have prompted the  European Central Bank  to boost
borrowing costs twice this year.  “The bottom line is that there is no panacea for the
current global markets and economy,” said Ito at UBS, who
previously worked at Japan’s finance ministry. “We are in a
different era, say from the Plaza Accord, when the stronger yen
solved all the major problems,” he said, referring to the 1985
agreement to counter dollar gains that endangered U.S. exports.  Currency Markets  Now, strengthening currencies from the yen to Switzerland’s
franc have been a by-product of investor concerns, rather than
the source of them. The franc has appreciated 38 percent against
the dollar and 28 percent versus the euro over the past year as
a haven from Europe’s debt crisis and a  U.S. economy  struggling
with unemployment in excess of 9 percent.  The yen was at 77.88 per dollar as of 1:51 p.m. in  London .
Japan last week mounted unilateral intervention to counter the
gains.  G-7 officials pledged to “consult closely in regard to
actions in exchange markets and will cooperate as appropriate,”
stepping up their language from previous pledges to “monitor”
currencies and cooperate as appropriate.  During the credit crunch in 2008 and 2009, government
pledges of more than $2 trillion in monetary and fiscal stimulus
and interest rate cuts helped pull the world economy out of the
worst recession since World War II.  Liquidity Abounds  This time around, there is little sign of a liquidity
crunch. Asian central banks from  China  to  Malaysia  and the
 Philippines  are raising reserve requirement ratios to drain cash
from their financial systems.  Cash held by U.S. banks surged 8.4 percent to a record $981
billion during the week ending July 27, the Fed said in an Aug.
5 report. That’s more than triple the amount firms had in July
2008, before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
almost froze bank-to-bank lending.  While the G-7 has been successful in past attempts in
moving currencies through intervention, -- a 2008 study by ECB
economist Marcel Fratzcher found the G-7 was successful in
moving currencies within a year on 80 percent of the 29
occasions it tried since 1974 -- it’s never strayed into stock
markets.  Stock Purchases  That step was taken in 1998 by the  Hong Kong  Monetary
Authority, which purchased $15 billion of stocks as the
territory was rocked by the Asian financial crisis.  “Hong Kong’s was about the only government intervention in
asset markets in history that worked,” as authorities then knew
the short positions and were able to squeeze them out, said
Richard Koo, chief economist in Tokyo at  Nomura Research
Institute Ltd. (4307) , a unit of Japan’s biggest brokerage. That’s
“very difficult” to apply as a model for the G-7, he added.  Part of the G-7’s challenge may be coping with the demise
of the U.S. as the main source of global consumer demand, with
emerging markets yet to provide enough of an offset to keep the
global economy from faltering.  While China’s policy makers have endorsed wage gains and
aimed at increasing the role of domestic spending, the share of
 consumer spending  in the world’s second-biggest economy has
diminished in recent years, standing at 33.8 percent in 2010,
government figures show. By contrast, consumption accounts for
about 70 percent of U.S. gross domestic product.  “This is all happening because the U.S.’s power is
diminishing,” said Motohiro Adachi, an economics professor at
Wakayama University in western Japan. “The world before the
subprime crisis was a global economy completely dependent on
rising U.S. real estate values. That went bust, and we can no
longer expect unlimited U.S. growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in  Tokyo  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  