-- 
Geithner Decision to Stay Gives ‘Continuity’ Amid Market Turmoil

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-08-08T04:49:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/geithner-tells-obama-he-will-remain-as-treasury-secretary.html
Timothy F. Geithner ’s decision to
stay on as Treasury secretary allows the Obama administration to
maintain continuity in economic policy amid investor concern
that the two-year-old expansion may be stalling.  Geithner, the last remaining member of President Barack Obama’s original economic team, will continue at least through
the 2012 election, according to an administration official who
wasn’t authorized to comment publicly.  Geithner, 49, made his announcement after months of
speculation over his future. He told White House officials this
year that he was considering leaving once a deal to raise the
nation’s borrowing limit was reached. Obama signed an increase
in the limit on Aug. 2.  “We can’t afford the loss in continuity at this stage,”
said  Diane Swonk , chief economist at Mesirow Financial Inc. in
 Chicago . “We’re on the brink of another financial crisis.”  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S. AAA credit rating on Aug. 5
for the first time, trimming it one level to AA+ and criticizing
lawmakers for failing to reduce spending or raise revenue enough
to lower record budget deficits. The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  of stocks
slumped 7.2 percent before the announcement to 1,199.38 last
week, the biggest weekly drop since November 2008. Meanwhile
European financial markets were roiled by their governments’
inability to manage the region’s debt crisis.  The Group of Seven nations, including the U.S., said
yesterday in a joint statement that they would take every action
necessary to stabilize financial markets. Members agreed to
inject liquidity and act against disorderly currency moves
should those steps become necessary.  Welcome Decision  “The President asked Secretary Geithner to stay on at
Treasury and welcomes his decision,”  Jay Carney , the White
House press secretary, said in a statement yesterday. Geithner
told Obama on Friday, according to another administration
official who isn’t authorized to speak publicly.  In an interview with NBC and CNBC television yesterday,
Geithner said he decided to remain in his job because “I
believe in this president,” and “if a president asks you to
serve, you have to do it.”  Geithner also said that U.S. government securities are the
“strongest” place to invest and the S&P downgrade “changed
nothing.”  “Everyone can be confident, both here and around the world,
that Treasuries are the most liquid, the strongest place to put
your money at a time like this,” Geithner said, adding that he
thinks  China  will continue to be “strong investors in the U.S.
going forward.” China has accumulated $1.16 trillion of
Treasuries and is the largest individual foreign holder.  Bank Bailouts  As Treasury secretary since January 2009 and president of
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for more than five years
before that, Geithner helped lead efforts to stabilize the
financial system and pull the  U.S. economy  out of the worst
recession since the Great Depression. He was a central figure in
the U.S. government’s bailouts of Wall Street banks including
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , and in the
negotiations with Congress to raise the debt limit.  “He handled the debt-ceiling crisis with great skill, and
we certainly don’t need the disruption of a change of leadership
at Treasury adding to current uncertainties,” said Alice Rivlin,
former President Bill Clinton’s budget director who served on a
fiscal commission Obama set up last year.  Obama’s administration probably wanted to avoid a fight in
the Senate, which would have to approve a new Treasury secretary,
said  Brian Gardner , senior vice president of Washington research
at New York-based Keefe, Bruyette & Woods.  “It would have been very tough to confirm a successor,”
Gardner said.  Treasury’s Challenges  The Treasury secretary’s challenges for the rest of Obama’s
term include increasing employment, overhauling the housing-
finance system, working with Congress to further cut the  budget
deficit  and helping European leaders contain their debt crisis.  Geithner may find himself in another round of debt-limit
debates. The agreement reached in Congress requires that a group
of 12 lawmakers submit savings in November involving all parts
of government. Geithner also will be tackling the future of
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the housing-finance companies that
have received about $130 billion in taxpayer support since they
were seized by the government in 2008.  Geithner had previously signaled to White House officials
that he was considering leaving once the months-long debate over
raising the $14.3 trillion federal debt limit was settled. The
Senate gave final approval to the legislation on Aug. 2, the
date the Treasury gave as the deadline when the U.S. would
exhaust its borrowing authority.  Start Commuting  Geithner said in June he would start commuting to
Washington from  New York  because his son was returning there to
finish high school.  Choosing to remain in office “is the right decision for
him and the markets,”  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist
in New York at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., said in an e-
mail yesterday. “He has not finished the job yet, as the
economic recovery remains fragile and the trillion-dollar
deficits have not been tamed. There is no obvious immediate
replacement waiting in the wings.”  During his term, the U.S. has suffered what Geithner
referred to last month as “unacceptably high, terribly high”
unemployment. The jobless rate has stalled around 9 percent
since April 2009, according to Labor Department data.  “In the middle of this crisis, Geithner probably doesn’t
want to roil markets any more than they have already been, so
it’s best to just say you’re staying for now, even if you are
ultimately planning on leaving,”  Dan Greenhaus , chief global
strategist at BTIG LLC in New York, said in an e-mail.  ‘Replace Him’  Some Republican lawmakers would have liked for Geithner to
go. After the S&P credit-rating downgrade, U.S. Senator  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina Republican, wrote on his Twitter
account that Obama should fire Geithner and “replace him with
someone who will focus on balancing our budget and letting
private sector create jobs.”  Republican presidential candidate  Michele Bachmann  of
Minnesota also called on Obama to dismiss Geithner during an
interview with Fox News after the downgrade was announced.  Banking lawyer H. Rodgin Cohen, senior chairman at Sullivan
& Cromwell LLP, disagreed. Describing himself as an “unabashed
fan” in a telephone interview yesterday, New York-based Cohen
said Geithner’s decision is positive. It “removes numerous
uncertainties overhanging the market,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  