-- 
General Maritime Leads Slump as Oil-Tanker Stocks Plunge

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-08-08T20:49:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/general-maritime-leads-slump-as-oil-tanker-stocks-plunge-1-.html
General Maritime Corp. (GMR)  led declines
by oil-tanker stocks in  New York  as the threat of a second U.S.
recession in three years increased the risk that energy imports
into the world’s largest economy may fall.  General Maritime fell 29 cents, or 39 percent, to 45 cents
in New York Stock Exchange trading. The six-member  Bloomberg
Tanker Index (TANKER)  dropped 11 percent, the most since March 5, 2009,
to the lowest level since May 9, 2003.  “The stock market is discounting problems ahead,” Andreas Vergottis, research director at Tufton Oceanic Ltd., manager of
the world’s biggest shipping hedge fund, said by phone. “It
will be very bad for tankers.”  The  U.S. economy  is heading into a “double-dip”
recession,  Nouriel Roubini , the co-founder and chairman of New
York-based Roubini Global Economics LLC, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television.  Tanker shares retreated as equities slumped globally. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 6.7 percent to 1,119.46, the
lowest level since September. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index slid 5.1
percent, extending its drop from this year’s high to 19 percent.  A return to recession in the U.S. would delay any rebound
in charter rates for tankers until after 2013, said Jonathan Chappell, an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in New York. Hire
costs for very large crude carriers, each able to haul 2 million
barrels of oil, are at the lowest level in 10 years, according
to the analyst.  34% Decline  “What this could do is delay the recovery out further,”
Chappell said.  Hire costs on the industry’s benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-
Japan route fell 1.7 percent to 46.09 industry-standard
Worldscale points today, according to the  Baltic Exchange  in
 London . The decline was the 12th in a row. Rental rates are down
34 percent this year.  Seaborne shipments of oil into the U.S. were forecast to
reach 6.9 million barrels a day, or 17 percent of all crude
shipped this year, an 11-year low, according to  Clarkson
Research Services Ltd. , a unit of the world’s largest
shipbroker. The country is the world’s biggest oil importer.  Owners are facing a glut of ships after ordering the most
in almost three decades in 2007 and 2008 before the world
economy entered its worst recession since World War II. Supply
and demand in the tanker market probably would only return to
balance later than 2013 if demand were to weaken further,
Chappell said.  Negative Rates  Average quarterly rates for VLCCs carrying crude to the
U.S. from the  Middle East  have been unprofitable since October,
according to data from the exchange. It assesses freight costs
on more than 50 international maritime routes.  Unprofitable, or negative, rates mean tanker owners
effectively are paying some of charterers’ costs because agreed
daily hire rates fail to cover all fuel and operating expenses
for a journey.  Tankers will ship an estimated 40.9 million barrels of
crude oil, Clarkson said.  “Trade will slow down, and I wouldn’t be surprised if we
see negative growth,” Tufton’s Vergottis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  