-- 
Generali Second-Quarter Profit Falls on Writedowns

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-08-08T12:36:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/generali-second-quarter-profit-falls-on-writedowns-correct-.html
(Corrects currency from euros to dollars in ninth paragraph
of story that ran Aug. 5.)  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) , Europe’s
third-biggest insurer, said second-quarter profit fell 45
percent, hurt by writedowns of Greek bonds and its stake in
Telco SpA.  Net income declined to 190 million euros ($269 million)
from 346 million euros a year earlier, missing the 261 million-
euro estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The second-
quarter figures were calculated by Bloomberg by subtracting
first-quarter numbers from the first-half results.  “We are confident that we will reach our full-year target
of an operating result of between 4 billion euros and 4.7
billion euros,” Chief Executive Officer Giovanni Perissinotto
said in a statement today.  Generali joined insurer  Unipol Gruppo Finanziario SpA (UNI)  and
Italian banks in writing down Greek debt after signing the
 Institute of International Finance ’s rescue plan last month. The
company wrote down 140 million euros of its 500 million-euro net
exposure, which represents Greek bonds in its own portfolio.  The company wrote down bonds expiring by 2020, which
account for 70 percent of its holdings. Quarterly earnings at
the Trieste, Italy-based insurer were also hurt by a 143
million-euro writedown of the stake held in Telco, the holding
company that controls  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , as well as the
increase of an Italian regional tax, known as IRAP.  Operating Margins  Generali expects higher operating margins both in the life
and non-life segments this year. “We continue our strategy of
expansion in markets with high growth potential and our focus on
efficiency improvements in the core European countries,” the
CEO said.  Quarterly operating profit rose 20 percent to 1.15 billion
euros on growth of its non-life business. The insurer’s non-life
premiums climbed 2 percent to 5.2 billion euros, while the
combined ratio, a measure of profitability, improved to 96.5
percent in the first half from 98.8 percent a year earlier.  “Operating results beat expectations,” Werner Eisenmann,
an analyst at DZ Bank AG, wrote in a note to clients. “New
business in life was still sluggish,” he said.  The insurer, which gets about 13 percent of its operating
income in central and eastern  Europe , is in talks with VTB Group
to form a joint venture to sell its products in  Russia ,
Perissinotto said in May. Generali expects to increase assets
under management in  Asia  and eastern Europe to $30 billion by
2015.  Generali fell 3.3 percent to 11.6 euros in Milan, giving
the company a market value of 18 billion euros. The Bloomberg
Europe 500 Insurance Index, which was down 3 percent today, has
dropped 24 percent in the past six months, compared with
Generali’s 31 percent decline.  Europe at Risk  The euro region is at “serious risk” of breaking up,
Perissinotto said. “Europe faces a serious risk of breaking up
into its constituent parts and finding itself and its various
member states impoverished,” he said. “Unfortunately we have
not seen yet a coordinated response and I urge our central
authorities, such as the ECB, to act in a decisive way.”  Generali cut its exposure to corporate bonds and  Italy ’s
financial industry in the first half, while it boosted the
weight of Italian  government bonds  from 49 billion euros at the
end of March to 51 billion euros.  The CEO also said that the company aims to grow internally
because “it’s no time for acquisitions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  