-- 
Georgia, Russia Should Widen Talks Beyond WTO, Crisis Group Says

-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 
2011-08-08T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/georgia-russia-should-widen-talks-beyond-wto-crisis-group-says.html
Russia  and Georgia, whose relations
have been fraught after a war three years ago, should expand
dialogue beyond talks over Russia’s bid to join the  World Trade
Organization ,  The International Crisis Group  said.  Politicians in both countries should tone down rhetoric
after accusing each other of involvement in terrorism and
spying, the non-profit group said today in a report named
‘Georgia-Russia: Learn to Live Like Neighbors.’ Swiss mediators
assisting in Russia’s WTO negotiations with Georgia may be able
to help the two countries engage, the Brussels-based group said.  “It is time for the two protagonists to talk to each other
more over a negotiating table, whether directly or with the aid
of a third-party, rather than trade allegations about each other
in the press or parliament,” according to the report, released
on the third anniversary of the military conflict.  Russia routed  Georgia ’s army in a five-day war in 2008 over
 South Ossetia , later recognizing the breakaway republic’s
independence from the Caucasus nation as well as that of
Abkhazia, another separatist region. Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  refuses to talk to his Georgian counterpart Mikheil Saakashvili, who he blames for starting the conflict.  Russia and Georgia regularly make regular allegations
against each other on security matters, the group said.  “Georgia accuses Russia not only of supporting a spy
network on its territory but also of playing a role in the dozen
bombings and attempted bombings that occurred across the country
in 2010-2011,” according to the report. “Russian officials
have sporadically accused Georgia, in very general terms, of
assisting Islamist insurgents operating in Russia’s North
Caucasus.”  Troop Withdrawal  The international community should continue pressing Russia
to withdraw its troops to pre-conflict positions and allow
European monitors full access to the region, the group urged.  Russia and Georgia will meet in  Switzerland  in September
discuss the WTO, Georgia’s  Deputy Foreign Minister  Sergi
Kapanadze said today on the phone from Tbilisi.  “It’s up to Russia to agree on transparency over customs
checkpoints in South Ossetia and Abkhazia, and then it will
become a member of the WTO,” Kapanadze said.  Georgia may block Russia’s 15-year bid to join the global
trade body, Medvedev warned in an interview last week.  In the same interview, the president denied reports his
country’s security services were involved in a series of
bombings in Georgia, including one near the U.S. embassy in the
capital, Tbilisi.  Russia has no intention of investigating these attacks,
Manana Manjgaladze, spokeswoman for Saakashvili, said TODAY?
From Tbilisi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  