-- 
German Air-Traffic Controllers Strike Halted by Mediation Bid

-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 
2011-08-08T23:45:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/german-air-traffic-controllers-to-strike-6-hours-tomorrow-on-pay.html
A strike by German air-traffic
controllers was forestalled when Deutsche Flugsicherung GmbH,
the air-navigation agency, sought mediation minutes after a
Frankfurt labor court ruling cleared the way for the strike to
proceed.  The six-hour strike that could have disrupted 2,500 flights
at carriers including  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  was slated to start
at 6 a.m. and would have involved up to 3,400 members of the
Gewerkschaft der Flugsicherung  union .  Before coming to a decision on the appeal ruling, the judge
Rainer Bram had urged the DFS to call in a mediator in return
for the GdF cancelling the strike.  “We wanted to be able to call a mediator in on our own
terms and not those imposed by the court,” DFS Managing
Director Jens Bergmann said after the ruling. “It means we can
discuss all the issues on the table and not simply those
specified by the judge.”  Judge Renate Binding-Thiemann said yesterday the union
could go ahead with a walkout given uncertainty over whether its
claims contradict German law and after it dropped some demands.
The Labor Court for the state of Hesse upheld her ruling.  Bergamann said earlier yesterday that the company had
offered to hold further talks with the union, which were
refused, but hadn’t proposed a revised contract.  The union canceled a six-hour walkout slated for Aug. 4 the
evening before that date when the same Frankfurt Labor Court
granted DFS an injunction on the grounds that the walkout
concerned an issue covered by an existing collective agreement.
While the GdF dropped that issue, DFS had asked yesterday’s
hearing to block a strike on the basis that the union’s demand
for senior managers to have at least 15 years’ experience was
discriminatory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  