-- 
MGM Resorts Beats Estimates on Macau Boom, Vegas Recovery

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-08-08T23:27:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/mgm-resorts-beats-estimates-on-macau-boom-vegas-recovery-1-.html
MGM Resorts International (MGM) , the
biggest casino operator on the Las Vegas Strip, reported second-
quarter earnings that beat analyst estimates as it took control
of a Macau joint venture and a recovery strengthened in  Nevada .  Net income was $3.44 billion, or $6.22 a share, boosted by
a $3.5 billion gain from consolidating Macau on its books. That
compares to a loss of $883.5 million, or $2 a share, a year
earlier when earnings were hit by CityCenter development
writedowns, the Las Vegas-based company said today in a
statement. Excluding items such as the Macau-booked gain, the
loss was 5 cents, smaller than the 13-cent loss average of 23
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Macau is booming while  Las Vegas  stages a broad-based
recovery from its steepest gambling and convention decline. Room
rates have increased at most of MGM’s 10 Las Vegas Strip resorts
and visitors are spending more on food and entertainment as
tourists and conventions return. MGM took a controlling stake in
its Macau joint venture in the quarter, consolidating onto its
books a resort in the world’s biggest gambling market, where
casino betting surged 58 percent last year and 45 percent in the
six months ended June 30.  Spending by tourists who book their vacations independently
or online is strengthening faster than anticipated, adding to
improved conventions and meetings where prices are higher and
the pace of reservations has risen since last year, Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Jim Murren said today in a phone
interview.  ‘Spending More Money’  “If you’re getting growth in the Luxors and Monte Carlos
and New York New Yorks, that’s telling you that the U.S.
customer is spending more money,” Murren said. “That’s
encouraging to us.”  Revenue rose 17 percent to $1.81 billion, beating the $1.61
billion analysts expected. Second-quarter  cash flow  at wholly
owned casinos -- measured as adjusted earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda -- rose 7
percent to $331 million.  MGM plans to redo its Macau credit facility in the fall,
and will seek to also “take another look” at the Las Vegas
parent’s credit facility within the next six months, seeking
improved terms, Murren said in a phone interview. Otherwise the
companies have no need to tap capital markets this year, he
said.  Joint Venture  Ebitda from MGM’s Macau joint venture rose to $170 million
from $61 million a year earlier as sales more than doubled, the
company said. MGM took 51 percent control of the venture, MGM
China Holdings Ltd., in June when partner Pansy Ho sold part of
her stake in a $1.5 billion Hong Kong initial public offering.
The IPO priced at the high end of the range sought.  The company is working with the Macau government to secure
a land grant to build a new casino resort in Cotai, which will
take about three years to open once approvals are received,
Murren said on today’s call.  Resort Ebitda at the $8.5 billion CityCenter joint venture
of hotels, condominiums, a casino and mall on the  Las Vegas
Strip  was $64 million in the second quarter, on revenue of $275
million. MGM and partner Dubai World opened CityCenter in
December 2009.  MGM fell 8.9 percent to $11.54 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading today, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
lost 6.7 percent, as investors retreat from riskier assets on
concern the global economy will continue to slow. MGM China
Holdings Ltd. rose 26 Hong Kong cents, or 1.7 percent, to close
at HK$15.58 before the earnings announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  