-- 
Goldman Sachs GDP Cut Spurs Rate-Bet Delays: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-08-08T22:20:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/goldman-sachs-gdp-cut-spurs-rate-bet-delays-mexico-credit.html
Mexican traders are postponing bets
for interest-rate increases to August after Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Bank of America Corp. lowered the country’s growth
forecast amid concern the U.S. may relapse into recession.  Yields on futures for the 28-day interbank due in August,
known as TIIE, sank 15 basis points in the past week to a record
low 5.02 percent. The contracts indicate traders expect Banco de
 Mexico  to leave its key rate unchanged at 4.5 percent until that
month. They have delayed their estimates for a rate boost 14
times this year. In  Brazil , traders are pricing in the
possibility the central bank may lower borrowing costs by
December after betting on an increase three weeks ago.  Mexico’s growth prospects are dimming after the economy in
the U.S., the Latin American country’s biggest trade partner,
grew less than forecast in the second quarter. Mexico is more
likely to cut  interest rates  than raise them next year, Goldman
Sachs economist  Alberto Ramos  wrote in a research note. Mexico
is the only major Latin American country to keep its key rate
unchanged in the past year as inflation holds near a five-year
low.  “With the data where they are and inflation so benign,
some are betting there could be an even longer pause,”  Gabriel Casillas , chief Mexico economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
Mexico City, said in a telephone interview. “We expected a long
pause.”  The yield on Mexico’s benchmark peso bonds due in 2024 fell
56 basis points, or 0.56 percentage point, in the past month to
6.5 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In Brazil,
yields on similar-maturity government debt fell 13 basis points,
or 0.13 percentage point, in the past five sessions while those
on Colombian debt fell eight basis points.  ‘Highly Dependent’  Goldman Sachs on Aug. 5 reduced its Mexican growth forecast
for this year to 4.1 percent from 4.4 percent and its estimate
for 2012 to 3.9 percent from 4.5 percent, citing weakening
demand from the U.S. A day earlier, Bank of America cut its 2012
growth projection to 4 percent from 4.5 percent, while leaving
its forecast for this year at 4 percent.  “Given the logistical proximity to the U.S., Mexico will
always be an economy that is highly dependent on the U.S.,”
Goldman Sachs’s Ramos said in a telephone interview. “There is
not much they can do. When the U.S. is doing well, they benefit
handsomely. When the U.S. is not doing so well, they are more
exposed than other economies.”  ‘Remain Cautious’  The  U.S. economy , the destination for 80 percent of Mexican
exports, grew at a less-than-forecast 1.3 percent pace in the
second quarter following revised growth of 0.4 percent in the
first three months of the year that was less than previously
estimated, the Commerce Department said July 29. U.S. consumer
spending grew 0.1 percent, the smallest gain since the second
quarter of 2009, the final months of the recession.  Press officials at Mexico’s central bank didn’t return
telephone calls seeking comment.  The  Finance Ministry  maintained its forecast of 4.3 percent
growth this year and 4.2 percent in 2012,  Miguel Messmacher ,
chief economist, said in an Aug. 5 phone interview.  “The different indicators of economic activity aren’t for
the moment sounding any alarms, even though we have to remain
cautious,” Messmacher said from Mexico City.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 19 basis points to
160 at 6:01 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  The peso weakened 2.7 percent to 12.3253 per  U.S. dollar .
It’s up 0.1 percent this year.  Default Swaps  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose 24 basis points to 152, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Mexico’s economy will weather the slump in the U.S. and
grow 4.8 percent this year, said Sergio Luna, head of economic
research at Citigroup Inc. in Mexico City. Central bank Governor
Agustin Carstens will raise the benchmark rate from 4.5 percent
in January, Luna said.  “The market reaction has been disproportionate to the data
in the U.S.,” Luna said in a telephone interview. “We don’t
see a deterioration in the data that indicates any more
difficulty for the U.S. markets. The data in Mexico has also
been much better than that in the U.S.”  Rate Outlook  Economists expect  Banxico , as Mexico’s central bank is
known, to stay on hold until May, according to the median
forecast of 21 economists in a survey distributed Aug. 4 by
Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit.  Inflation slowed in Mexico to 3.28 percent in June from
3.69 percent a year earlier. It touched a five-year low of 3.04
percent in March.  The Mexican economy is still struggling to rebound from its
2009 recession, Goldman Sachs’s Ramos said. Mexico’s economy
shrank 6.1 percent that year, the worst since 1995.  “The recovery from the brutal 2009 recession has been very
moderate,” Ramos said. “Things never accelerated to gain a lot
of momentum.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  