-- 
Gold May Reach $1,800 an Ounce on Haven Demand, Kotak Says

-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-08T07:58:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/gold-may-reach-1-800-an-ounce-on-haven-demand-kotak-says.html
Madhavi Mehta, research analyst with
Kotak Commodity Services Ltd., comments on the outlook for gold
after the precious metal reached a record today.  Bullion for immediate delivery rose as much as 3.1 percent
to an all-time high of $1,715.75 an ounce and traded at
$1,710.80 at 12:26 p.m. Mumbai time. Gold has rallied 20 percent
this year, its 11th annual gain.  Mehta commented today in an e-mail from Mumbai.  On gold prices:  “Gold is moving higher lately on the back of safe-haven
demand as the outlook for major global economies, especially
U.S. and Euro-zone, is weakening. The latest leg of the rally is
because of the U.S. rating downgrade.  ‘‘Gold is not the only asset which is gaining interest amid
uncertainty about the  U.S. economy . Swiss franc and Japanese yen
have also seen some safe haven asset buying. However,
commodities in general are under pressure due to demand
concerns.  ‘‘Investors are likely to favor gold as outlook remains
bullish as haven demand will rise as uncertainty about major
economies intensify. U.S. and Euro-zone debt problems are far
from over. Meanwhile, central banks will continue to infuse
markets with liquidity to support their economy, further
devaluing currency.’’  ‘‘Gold is trading near record high levels and outlook
remains firm. We could see gold hitting $1,800 an ounce level by
the end of the year.’’  On gold demand in India:  ‘‘Indian buyers are becoming accustomed to higher gold
prices. The impact of higher gold prices on Indian demand will
be visible only in the last quarter, which is the peak demand
season due to weddings and festival season.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Mumbai at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  