-- 
Greek Short-Selling Ban Won’t Help Stocks, History Says: Chart of the Day

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-08-08T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/greek-short-ban-won-t-aid-stocks-history-says-chart-of-the-day.html
Greece ’s decision to ban short
selling of securities won’t stop stocks from falling more than
shares in other European countries, if history is any guide.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows Greece’s ASE Index fared worse
than the Stoxx Europe 600 Index when the Mediterranean country’s
securities regulator banned short selling between April 29,
2010, and Sept. 1 that year. The Greek gauge fell 14 percent
over the period of the ban, while the broader measure lost 1.4
percent. In a short sale, investors bet on declines in
securities by borrowing stock to sell on the expectation it can
be purchased at a lower price before handing it back.  Greece’s securities regulator yesterday said it will ban
short selling on the Athens exchange as of today, for a period
of two months, according to an e-mailed statement from the
Athens-based Hellenic Capital Markets Commission. The group
cited “extraordinary market conditions prevailing in Greece”
as its reason for the prohibition. The European Securities and
Markets Authority said that other national regulators had no
plans to adopt similar measures.  “Banning short selling has been long proved to not work
and remains a distinct threat to the free-market principle,”
said Joshua Raymond, a market strategist at City Index Ltd. in
 London . “The market will always feel that it determines rates
and prices and any ban of what actions investors can take merely
postpones them from doing the inevitable.”  European leaders agreed last month to a financing plan for
Greece that includes 50 billion euros ($71 billion) of
contributions from private investors through bond exchanges and
buybacks. On June 30, Greek lawmakers approved 78 billion euros
of tax increases and asset sales. The country has been
struggling with one of the highest debt burdens on the
continent. Last month, European leaders agreed on a second
bailout for the nation in a bid to end the region’s debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  