-- 
Gross Praises S&P’s ‘Spine’ as Buffett Says Analysts Erred

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-08-08T20:21:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/gross-praises-s-p-s-spine-as-buffett-says-rating-company-erred.html
Bill Gross , manager of the world’s
biggest bond mutual fund, said  Standard & Poor’s  showed
“spine” by cutting the U.S. debt rating, contradicting  Warren Buffett  and Legg Mason Inc.’s  Bill Miller , who said the rating
company erred.  “I think S&P has demonstrated some spine; they finally got
it right,” Gross, who has been critical of Treasuries for
months, said in a Bloomberg Television interview with  Tom Keene 
yesterday. The U.S. has “enormous problems,” he said,
referring to the country’s mounting debt.  S&P on Aug. 5 lowered the U.S. one level to AA+ while
keeping the outlook at “negative” as it becomes less confident
Congress will end Bush-era tax cuts or tackle entitlements. The
U.S. merits a “quadruple A” rating, Buffett, 80, said in an
interview with Betty Liu of Bloomberg Television. Legg Mason’s
Miller said S&P was “precipitous, wrong and dangerous” in
lowering the rating after last week’s stock market selloff.  Weakening economic data has prompted concerns about the
U.S. recovery. Nouriel Roubini, chairman of Roubini Global
Economics LLC in New York, said in an interview with Tom Keene
yesterday that the U.S. may be headed into a “double-dip
recession.”  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , which manages $3.6 trillion in assets, said
in a statement that the  Federal Reserve  “will want to continue
supporting the recovery in any manner it can in light of an
extraordinarily anemic real growth rate” this year.  ‘Dirty Shirts’  Gross, 67, has said that Treasuries are unattractive
because yields don’t offer enough compensation for the risk of
inflation. In his monthly investment outlook, published last
week, Gross said investors should buy assets of countries with
“cleaner dirty shirts” and higher real  interest rates ,
including Canada, Mexico,  Brazil  and  Germany .  His  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , the world’s biggest mutual
fund at $245 billion in assets, is lagging 56 percent of rivals
this year as U.S. government debt rallied amid the European
sovereign crisis and concern that the global economy is slowing.
The fund has returned 8.7 percent on average over the past five
years, beating 98 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Newport Beach, California-based Pimco
managed $1.3 trillion in assets as of March 31.  ‘Vulnerable’  Treasuries rallied today as tumbling stock markets sparked
demand for the safety of government debt. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year bonds fell 22 basis points to 2.34 percent at
4:17 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. Bond yields move inversely to prices. The  S&P 500 Index (SPX) 
fell 79.92, or 6.7 percent, to 1119.46.  Gross raised holdings of Treasuries in the Total Return
fund to 10 percent in July, from 8 percent in June, the company
said today on its Web site. The fund has more than doubled
investments in non-U.S. developed countries to 13 percent in
July from 6 percent in April, according to data released today.
In July 2010, the fund had 54 percent of its holdings in
government-related debt, a category that included Treasuries.  With the economy showing sign of weakness, Gross said the
dollar remains “vulnerable” to further losses. For the global
economy to start improving,  China  would need to let its currency
appreciate, he said in the interview.  Yuan Gains  China’s yuan strengthened the after the downgrade. The U.S.
should avoid letting the dollar weaken or taking fresh monetary
steps that may worsen the currency’s depreciation, the Xinhua
News Agency said in a commentary.  The People’s Bank of China set its daily fixing 0.23
percent stronger at a record 6.4305 per dollar, the biggest
advance since November 2010. The currency is allowed to trade up
to 0.5 percent on either side of the official rate.  Buffett said in the interview with Betty Liu that he
doesn’t expect a double-dip recession in the U.S.  “Financial markets create their own dynamics, but I don’t
think we’re facing a double-dip recession ,” said Buffett,
chairman and chief executive officer of Omaha, Nebraska-based
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  “Clearly what stock markets do have is
an effect on confidence, and this selloff can create a lack of
confidence.”  No Alternative  Miller, who agreed with Buffett’s assessment, said the U.S.
is the “most productive economy in the world.”  “There simply is no alternative to the dollar as the
global reserve currency and as the instrument of global trade,”
Miller wrote.  Miller is best known for outperforming the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index for a record 15 consecutive years through 2005.
He trailed the S&P for four out of the next five years as bets
on financial stocks and a recovery in the economy didn’t pay
off. Miller’s $3.1 billion  Legg Mason Capital Management Value
Trust (LMVTX)  has lost 8.1 percent this year, compared with a 3.6
percent decline for the index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Stocks plunged last week amid signs the  U.S. economy  is
slowing and speculation that  Europe  will fail to contain its
sovereign-debt crisis. Reports on manufacturing and consumer
spending trailed economists’ forecasts.  The U.S. cut, announced after the close of trading in New
York, was prompted by rising public debt and “greater
policymaking uncertainty,” S&P said. The U.S. has the top
 credit rating  at both Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings.  Sticking With Treasuries  Buffett said he doesn’t rely on the views of ratings firms
when buying and selling securities. Berkshire is the biggest
shareholder of Moody’s Corp.  Money managers BlackRock, the world’s biggest asset
management firm, Western Asset Management Co., the bond unit of
Baltimore-based Legg Mason, and Northern Trust Corp. have said
the S&P’s rating cut won’t change their view of Treasuries.  Peter Fisher , head of fixed income at BlackRock, said
Treasuries remain the most liquid and transparent investments
even after they were downgraded by S&P. The U.S. will probably
maintain that position over the next years, he said.  “The fact of the downgrade won’t change in the near term
how we use and think of U.S. Treasuries,” Fisher said in a
phone interview from  New York . Treasuries “will still be the
hedging vehicles of choice,” for investors looking to reduce
risk in their portfolios, he said.  Money Funds  Moody’s and Fitch affirmed their AAA credit ratings on Aug.
2, the day President Barack Obama signed a bill that ended the
debt-ceiling impasse that pushed the Treasury to the brink of
default.  The S&P downgrade won’t have an impact on money-market
funds as the ratings company didn’t lower the top grade it gives
to U.S. short-term debt, Fisher said. Money funds are required
to keep 97 percent of assets in top-rated short-term securities
under Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act of 1940  Stephen Walsh, chief investment officer at Western Asset,
said that funds at the firm won’t change the way they invest
because of the downgrade.  “Our conversations with central banks and foreign
investors show that they won’t view Treasuries differently,”
Walsh said in an interview.  Gross said if the U.S. wants to revive the economy by using
government spending, it needs to target investment, not
consumption.  “We need to become more productive as a global exporter,”
Gross said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  