-- 
Michaels Stores Co-Founder Wyly Dies

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-08-08T17:45:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/michaels-stores-co-founder-wyly-dies.html
Charles Wyly, a co-founder of the
Michaels Stores Inc. retail chain and major donor to Republican
campaigns who was fighting fraud and insider-trading accusations
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, has died after a
car accident in western  Colorado . He was 77.  He was turning onto Colorado Highway 82 near Aspen’s
airport yesterday when his 1983 Porsche Targa was hit by a 2006
Ford Freestyle, said Trooper Nate Reid, a spokesman for the
Colorado State Patrol. No charges have been filed against the
other driver, Reid said.  Wyly and his younger brother, Sam, 76, each served as
chairman of Irving, Texas-based Michaels Stores, which sells
arts and crafts in more than 1,000 outlets around the U.S. and
 Canada . In 2006, Bain Capital LLC and the Blackstone Group
acquired Michaels in a transaction valued at $6 billion.  The Wyly family fortune was also built on expanding and
selling the Bonanza and Ponderosa steakhouse chains, Green
Mountain Energy Co. and Sterling Software Inc.  The SEC, in a complaint filed in July 2010 after a six-year
investigation, accused the brothers of using “an elaborate sham
system of trusts and subsidiary companies” in the  Isle of Man 
and the  Cayman Islands  over 13 years to hide their ownership of
stock in four public companies on whose boards they sat,
including Michaels Stores.  ‘Wrong Impression’  In March, the brothers lost a bid to have the lawsuit
dismissed. The SEC has been seeking to impose penalties and to
force the Wylys to turn over $550 million the agency claims they
made from the alleged scheme.  “My reputation is more important to me than anything,”
Charles Wyly told the New York Times last year. “To the extent
that people are bombarded with information, they might have the
wrong impression.”  The SEC may be able to continue pursuing its case against
Charles Wyly by targeting his estate, said Robert Heim, an
attorney with the New York-based firm Meyers & Heim LLP, who
specializes in securities litigation and isn’t involved in the
Wyly matter.  “Depending on what sort of relief the SEC was seeking,
they can go after the estate for items like disgorgement, to the
extent the person profited from any illegal activity,” Heim
said in an interview. “It can hurt the estate because the
person’s not around to defend themselves anymore. It can be
problematic to mount a defense in this situation.”  Dallas  Home  Charles Wyly’s 11,000-square-foot home in the Dallas
neighborhood of Preston Hollow was known for its ritzy parties,
a backyard conservatory and a personal chef who once served
British royalty, the Dallas Morning News reported today.  Unlike his brother, Charles didn’t crack Forbes magazine’s
lists of wealthiest Americans. Forbes  dropped  Sam Wyly from its
list of billionaires this year after estimating his net worth at
$1 billion in 2010.  Charles Wyly contributed more than $1 million to federal
candidates and political parties since 1989, according to the
Washington-based Center for Responsive Politics.  He raised more than $100,000 for former President  George W.
Bush ’s 2000 campaign. With his brother, he funded Republicans
for Clean Air, which didn’t initially disclose its donors as it
aired advertisements for Bush and against rival Senator  John
McCain  of  Arizona  during the 2000 primary election campaign.  Support for Perry  Republican Governor  Rick Perry  of  Texas  received more than
$300,000 from the Wyly brothers since 2000, the  Associated Press 
said, citing Texas Ethics Commission reports.  The Wyly brothers and their wives gave $20 million to help
build the AT&T Performing Arts Center in Dallas. It opened in
2009 and anchors an arts district that includes an opera house,
a symphony hall and museums.  Charles Wyly was born in 1933 and raised in rural
Louisiana. He and his brother, born in 1934, worked for their
parents’ weekly newspaper, the Delhi Dispatch in Delhi,
Louisiana, the Dallas Morning News reported today, citing an
interview with Sam Wyly.  “I would say that he sought the truth,” Sam said of his
late brother, according to the newspaper. “He saw every other
individual as a child of God, as he did himself. He didn’t take
offense to anything, even when people meant to be offensive. It
was an amazing quality to have.”  According to a  biography  on family-authorized website,
Charles Wyly earned a degree in business administration from
 Louisiana  Tech University. He worked eight years at
International Business Machines Corp.  From 1964 to 1977, he held positions including president of
University Computing Co., a computer software company.  He was a founder and served as vice chairman for 16 years
of Sterling Software. He also was a founder of Maverick Capital,
Ltd., an investment management firm. He was a co-founder and
former chairman of Earth Resources Co., an oil refining and
mining company.  He and his wife, Dee, had four children and seven
grandchildren.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Arnold in  Washington  at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at   cstevens@bloomberg.net  