-- 
Hilfiger’s Pricing Power Shows Apparel Profit Holds Up

-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 
2011-08-08T13:25:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/hilfiger-s-new-pricing-power-shows-apparel-profits-holding-up.html
(Corrects consulting firm’s name in 23rd paragraph.)  Retailers are managing to increase
prices and pass on higher costs to shoppers, even in the face of
concern that an economic rebound is waning.  PVH Corp., which owns  Tommy Hilfiger , said profit would
approach the high end of its projections this year after raising
prices.  VF Corp. (VFC) , maker of 7 For All Mankind jeans, is boosting
prices after raising them earlier this year had little impact on
unit volume. Levi Strauss & Co. attributed 7 percent quarterly
revenue growth to “select” price increases on men’s jeans, and
plans to extend those to women, teens and kids. All three
companies said they were positive about the rest of 2011.  “Retailers have passed through apparel price increases
more successfully than most people anticipated several months
ago,” said Jeffrey Klinefelter, an analyst with Piper Jaffray
Cos. in  Minneapolis . “Investors will have more confidence that
they will hit the numbers for the second half.”  Higher apparel prices accounted for 1 percentage point of
the 4.6 percent increase U.S. chains reported in sales at stores
open at least a year in July,  Michael Niemira , chief economist
of the  International Council of Shopping Centers , estimates.
Those same-store sales will climb 4.25 percent in 2011, compared
with 3.5 percent last year, he says.  “I have not changed my view that the consumer would accept
price increases because all the retailers would have the same
cost structure and ultimately would start to pass that
through,” Niemira said Aug. 5. “It’s not like the consumer can
go elsewhere; there is no escape hatch. That pricing power is
coming through into higher profits.”  Consumers Willing  Average prices in the apparel market rose more than 5
percent January through May from the same period a year earlier,
with consumers willing to absorb them, NPD Group Inc., a  Port
Washington , New York-based market research firm, said Aug. 2.
The higher prices followed rising costs for transportation,
materials -- especially cotton -- and labor, particularly in
 China . The clothing industry had faced consumer resistance to
apparel price increases for two decades.  Cotton futures closed at $1.0158 a pound in  New York  on
Aug. 5, down from a record price of $2.197 on March 7 and up 27
percent from a year earlier. The core U.S. consumer price index,
which excludes volatile food and energy, rose 0.3 percent in
both May and June for the first back to back gain in three
years.  Among recent warning signs for the wider consumer sector,
and the economy in general, was a 0.2 percent drop in purchases
in June, according to the Commerce Department. It was the first
such fall in almost two years, and provided evidence that the
hiring slump is hurting household confidence. The U.S. stock
market on Aug. 4 suffered its biggest decline in more than two
years partly on fears of a double-dip recession.  Economy Falters  If the economy falters, the pricing power may not be as
strong, which means fewer apparel units will sell at the higher
prices, Klinefelter said.  There will be clear winners and losers, too.  “It’s going to be very company-specific,”  Christine Chen ,
an analyst at Needham & Co. said. “If you have unique product,
pricing power will exist. But if you have a commodity product
then, no, there will be no pricing power.”  PVH and Greensboro, North Carolina-based VF enjoy the
benefit of owning strong national brands that consumers feel are
worth paying up for. Less well-positioned are  Gap Inc. (GPS) , the
largest U.S. apparel chain, whose July sales retreated 5
percent, and teen retailer  Aeropostale Inc. (ARO) , which reported a 14
percent comparable sales drop in the second quarter.  Gross Margin  Even the more robust apparel makers aren’t passing along
all the cost increases, so their gross margin, the share of
sales after subtracting the cost of goods sold, will still
narrow. PVH’s gross margin, for example, will shrink 150 to 200
basis points this year, Chief Executive Officer Emanuel Chirico
said.  PVH, based in New York, is seeing 5 percent to 7 percent
average unit retail growth since it started increasing prices in
the spring, Chirico said. It is raising its average retail
ticket prices 12 percent to 15 percent after experiencing
average apparel product cost increases of 15 percent, he said.  “We think there’s significant elasticity,” Chirico said.
“So it really gives us a strong feeling about how the second
half will progress.”  In a sign of industry price power, some retailers are
reducing unit orders just 5 percent rather than 10 percent in
the face of 10 percent price increases, Klinefelter said.  Pricing Agreements  In addition, the national apparel brands have passed on
higher prices without major retailers breaking pricing
agreements or offering deep discounts, he added. That “relative
parity” across the market means the consumer is accepting the
price jumps so far, he said.  Pent-up demand for apparel, one of the harder hit
categories during the recession, means consumers are allocating
more of their dollars to that category and less to home
improvement and electronics, Klinefelter said. Freed-up budgets
make it easier to pass through price increases, he said.  Apparel sales rose 6.2 percent in July from a year earlier,
MasterCard Advisors SpendingPulse said Aug. 4. The increase
bested year-over-year gains in the previous two months, while
electronics and furniture fell, it said.  Retailers including  Polo Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL)  plan to raise
prices more on higher-end items than on less expensive goods
because low-income consumers have been hurt simultaneously by
higher costs for food, apparel and gasoline.  “A T-shirt going from $5.99 to $7.99, is a lot different
than a shirt going from $200 to $205 or $210,” Saks Inc. CEO
Steve Sadove said at an April investors conference.  Ribbon Embellishments  The apparel industry is also adding such embellishments as
bows and ribbons, then raising prices more than the cost of the
additional materials, said Chen, who is based in  San Francisco .  To enhance the ultimate price out the door, the industry
also is controlling inventories to minimize discounts, said
Madison Riley, a New York-based managing director for Kurt
Salmon, a retail consulting firm.  Now that cotton prices have retreated, everyone is
wondering what this is going to mean for apparel prices in the
spring, Chen said.  “Will they keep the margin, or lower prices?” Chen said.
“My guess is that they will keep the margin for themselves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in  Washington  at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 