-- 
Immelt Adds Technology Jobs in U.S. as Outsourcing Is Shaved

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 
2011-08-08T16:01:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/immelt-adds-technology-jobs-in-u-s-as-ge-shaves-outsourcing.html
General Electric Co. (GE) , once vilified
in the U.S. for leadership in outsourcing jobs, is pulling more
 information-technology  positions back in-house.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  has said GE will add
more than 15,000  jobs  in the three years through December. About
1,100 will be just outside Detroit in a center for information
technology, a field emblematic of outsourcing. So far, GE has
hired about 660 people in Michigan, a state that led the nation
in jobless rates, making it a symbol of U.S. industrial decline.  “About 50 percent of the IT work was being done by non-GE
employees,” Charlene Begley, chief information technology
officer, said in an interview at the center. “That strategy may
have had its time, but there was a lot of downside. We lost a
lot of the technical capabilities that we have to own.”  Bringing more information-technology work back to GE lets
the company move quickly to develop programs that respond to
technology demands cropping up faster than ever.  “With iPads and whatever mobile devices people want to
use, the need for better user experiences is essential to
competitiveness,” Begley said. “So we’ve got a team that’s
really good at writing user applications that are sexy,
impressive and quick.”  Mature Markets  Companies such as GE and  General Motors Co. (GM)  that once led
in outsourcing are in the forefront of a move in the opposite
direction: adding workers back to their own businesses in mature
markets like the U.K. and the U.S., said John Keppel, president
of information services and chief marketing officer for
outsourcing consultant TPI Inc.  The global value of information-technology outsourcing
contracts fell 20 percent in 2011’s first half, dragged down by
a 51 percent second-quarter drop in the Americas, according to
TPI data released July 20.  “GE, GM and companies like them founded the whole
outsourcing business,” Keppel said in an interview Aug. 3.
“What we’re seeing in America is more about the maturity of the
market. Cleary there are some macro-economic factors and
political factors that play into that to varying degrees.”  Immelt has worked to locate a variety of GE production
sites closer to their markets around the world. The company has
increased its information technology workforce 30 percent to
9,600 worldwide in the past decade and plans to expand to
11,000. Immelt also has been boosting exports of equipment such
as gas turbines and jet engines.  Tax Incentives  GE took advantage of incentives such as  Michigan ’s tax
benefits and skilled workforce. Immelt said in announcing the
Michigan site in 2009 that GE would invest $100 million, while
state officials offered more than $60 million over 12 years in
incentives.  “The change in approach is critical, and it comes right
from the top,” said  Harley Shaiken , a labor professor at the
 University of California  at Berkeley. “He’s addressed it both
from the context of GE and in the importance of the U.S. having
a vibrant, high-tech manufacturing base.”  The shift marks a turn of sorts for a company where
Immelt’s predecessor,  Jack Welch , once told  CNN  that the ideal
scenario for business would be to “put every plant you own on a
barge to move with currencies and changes in the economy.” In
2004, one of the company’s unions sought a study on whether
outsourcing jobs outside the U.S. was damaging GE’s brand.  Anecdotal evidence so far shows a single center employee
can handle work for which GE would have needed three outside
contractors, said Begley, who also runs the segment including
appliances and factory-automation software. She attributed the
difference partly to lower costs with an in-house center.  Outsourcing Pioneer  Manufacturing expenses in the U.S. have narrowed in
comparison to countries like China and  India , helping GE add
skilled jobs like the 125 planned at a flagship gas-turbine
plant in Greenville,  South Carolina , Immelt said in July.  About $17 billion of GE’s $150 billion in sales last year
came from exports, a trend that fuels creation of such
positions, Immelt said July 13. In the second quarter, about 59
percent of GE’s total sales came from overseas.  “GE was a pioneer in outsourcing of high-technology, high
value-added outsourcing” and developed a global production
network, Shaiken said. “Clearly, Jeff Immelt is rethinking at
least part of that direction.”  There’s a difference between outsourcing, which has driven
profits at companies such as  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  in the U.S. and Wipro Ltd. in India, and off-shoring --
using companies outside a country to provide services within its
borders, TPI’s Keppel noted.  ‘Something Magic’  Begley said the Michigan center isn’t a case of the U.S.
versus India.  “I have huge teams in India and they’re incredible.
They’re talented and valuable to GE,” she said. For the
Michigan center, “when you get the chance to create a site and
cherry-pick the talent that all of GE needs -- there’s something
magic there.”  Employees at the center cut across the Fairfield,
Connecticut-based company’s swath of businesses in proportion
with division sizes and current needs.  This summer, as GE Aviation braces for record production of
 jet engines  that use new technology such as composite blades,
the 100 center employees tied to that business are preparing for
the surge. They’re developing a way to simulate production that
will let plants avoid shutdowns to fix kinks found in test runs.  Collaboration’s payoffs are helping convince other U.S.
companies to pull outsourced positions back in-house, said Fred Hochberg, president of the U.S. Export-Import Bank.  One Location  “People in the business world, small and large, are
finding that having your research and design all co-located has
enormous benefits,” Hochberg said in an interview. “The
manufacturing process informs the engineering process and then
the engineering process informs the manufacturing process.”  GE has a $189 billion backlog of orders, so developing
software to manage production is critical, Begley said.
Information technology workers also write programs that handle
tasks from running a hospital’s network of medical records to
comparing power generation in emerging and developed markets.  “Within the IT context, our employees, our businesses, our
customers have demands that are 10 times what they used to be,”
Begley said. “They need instant data anywhere anytime. And for
us to, like, have to call a contractor for that technical skill
slows us down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Layne in  Detroit  at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Detroit at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  