-- 
India, China May Gain From U.S., Europe Problems, Adenwala Says

-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 
2011-08-08T02:38:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/india-china-may-gain-from-u-s-europe-problems-adenwala-says.html
Paras Adenwala , chief executive
officer at Capital Portfolio Advisors in Mumbai, which advises
non-resident Indians on investments in the country, comments on
the outlook for Indian stocks after  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded
U.S.’s AAA credit rating one level to AA+ while keeping the
outlook at “negative.”  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index tumbled 4.9
percent last week, the most since October 2009, to 17,305.87,
amid concerns the world economy may slip into recession.
Adenwala spoke by phone.  On market reaction after U.S. rating cut:  “There could be a knee-jerk reaction and the markets could
fall initially. The downgrade is just a formality as the markets
had begun to fall even before that.  ‘‘The markets already smelt a downgrade happening.’’  On outlook for emerging markets:  ‘‘Countries like India and  China  could emerge winners out
of the problems that are being faced in the West. The overall
sentiment towards emerging markets could start turning
favorable.  ‘‘I would not be surprised if we see higher inflows in
 India  and China.  ‘‘We could see India back to the fore in terms of interest
from foreign funds.’’  On India’s domestic concerns:  ‘‘As far as inflation and interest-rate increases are
concerned, we could be nearing the peak, which again is a big
positive for the markets.  ‘‘We might see some sobriety returning in the tone of the
central bank and a maximum of 50-basis point rise in rates.’’  On advise to clients:  ‘‘This is the time when you should be buying. One should
really step-up the exposure to equities.  ‘‘There is so much of problem and fear on one side and at
the same time, one is reasonably sure that India will keep on
growing at 7 percent at least, if not better. You couldn’t have
asked for more.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in  Mumbai  at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  