-- 
InterDigital Trying to Boost Patents’ Price, Huawei Tells ITC

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-08-08T20:14:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/interdigital-trying-to-boost-patents-price-huawei-tells-itc.html
InterDigital Inc., owner of about
1,300 U.S. mobile-phone patents, filed infringement claims with
a U.S. trade panel last month to boost the price of its
intellectual property portfolio, Huawei Technologies Co. said.  InterDigital “may be using the commission’s investigation
process purely for the purpose of inflating its value as it
prepares to sell its IP assets,” Huawei said in an Aug. 5
letter to the U.S. International Trade Commission in Washington.  InterDigital said July 19 it was considering a sale of its
patent portfolio. The company filed a complaint with the ITC on
July 26 that accused Huawei,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  ZTE Corp. (763)  of
infringing seven patents related to so-called third-generation
wireless technology.  In its complaint, King of Prussia, Pennsylvania-based
InterDigital asked the panel for an order that would block U.S.
imports of mobile phones containing the disputed technology. All
three companies sent letters to the commission saying such an
action would not be in the public’s interest.  There is a “distinct possibility that InterDigital is
using the Commission’s proceeding simply to inflate the value of
its patent holdings with no likely benefit to the kind of
domestic industry intended to be protected by the statute,”
 Sturgis Sobin  of Covington & Burling in Washington wrote on
behalf of Shenzhen, China-based Huawei.  The companies asked that the judge assigned to the case
gather evidence on the public implications of a ruling in
InterDigital’s favor. The ITC has not yet picked a judge.  ‘Good Faith Efforts’  In a July 26 statement, InterDigital said it filed the
complaint after “good faith efforts” to reach a licensing
agreement failed. When asked about the new filings, Jack Indekeu, a spokesman for InterDigital, said the company doesn’t
comment on litigation.  “It makes little sense for the ITC to protect entities
that use patent litigation to compel prelitigation settlements
and use the ITC to drive up settlement amounts,” ZTE, also
based in Shenzhen, wrote in its filing. ZTE and Huawei are
 China ’s two largest makers of phone equipment.  Nokia, based in Espoo,  Finland , won an earlier ITC case
filed by InterDigital over other patents and is awaiting an
appeals court ruling in that dispute.  InterDigital has hired  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  and  Barclays
Capital  to help explore a potential sale to take advantage of
increased demand for wireless patents. InterDigital, whose stock
has risen more than 50 percent since the July 19 announcement,
has said its patents are deeper and stronger than those that
Nortel Networks Corp. auctioned for $4.5 billion in bidding
concluded June 30.  Samsung Electronics Co.,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  have
been named as potential bidders for the InterDigital patents.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Wireless Devices with
3G Capabilities and Components Thereof, Complaint No. 2835, U.S.
International Trade Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  