-- 
Dubai Opts for $4 Billion Repayment Over Refinancing as Economy Recovers

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-08-08T11:56:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/investment-corp-of-dubai-to-repay-4-billion-loan-at-maturity-in-august.html
Dubai, which was on the brink of a
default in 2009, will repay $4 billion of loans this month as
the Persian Gulf business hub opts for repayment over
refinancing after economic growth accelerated.  Investment Corp. of Dubai, one of the emirate’s three main
state-owned holding companies, will repay the loans when they
mature on Aug. 21, the Dubai Government Media Office said in an
e-mailed statement today. “The maturing obligation will be
repaid from internal sources derived principally from cash
dividends received from ICD’s operating subsidiaries.”  Investment Corp. of Dubai began raising a $2.8 billion loan
to help repay the $4 billion facility, two bankers familiar with
the plan said May 11.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and
Emirates NBD PJSC were coordinating the conventional tranche,
while  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and  Mashreqbank PSC (MASQ)  were leading
the Islamic portion, they said.  Dubai, the second-biggest of seven sheikhdoms that make up
the United Arab Emirates, needed $20 billion in 2009 from the
country’s central bank and  Abu Dhabi  to help state-owned
companies through the credit crisis. Dubai and its state-owned
companies borrowed about $113 billion in a bid to become a
regional financial and tourism hub, according to an
International Monetary Fund report published on June 16.  Recovery  The emirate has benefited from stable government in
contrast to the political upheaval sweeping the  Middle East .
Economic growth in Dubai may accelerate to about 2.8 percent,
the IMF forecast in a report published in May. That comes after
growth of 2.4 percent in 2010 and a 2.4 percent contraction in
2009, according to government statistics.  “Dubai is witnessing a recovery and remains a stable
financial center,” Investment Corp. of Dubai’s Chief Executive
Officer Mohammed Al Shaibani said in today’s statement. “The
emirate continues to be an attractive destination for business,
tourism and trade and has proven its resilience in recent
times.”  Investment Corp. of Dubai’s $4 billion three-year facility,
which includes a $2.5 billion conventional loan and a $1.5
billion of Islamic financing, was raised from a group of local
and foreign banks, according to the statement.  Investment Corp. of Dubai, set up in May 2006, has stakes
in more than 30 companies including Emirates, the world’s
biggest airline by international traffic,  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  and
 Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the developer of the world’s tallest
tower in Dubai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  