-- 
Jackson Hewitt Wins Bankruptcy Court Approval of Restructuring Plan

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-08-08T16:17:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/jackson-hewitt-wins-bankruptcy-court-approval-of-restructuring-plan.html
Jackson Hewitt Tax Service Inc. (JTX) , the
second-largest U.S. tax preparer, won court approval of its
reorganization plan, clearing the way to exit bankruptcy
protection later this week.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath approved the pre-
negotiated restructuring plan, which gives control of the
company to lenders, at a hearing today in Wilmington,  Delaware .  “We’re very pleased that the court approved the plan,”
Mark A. McDermott, a lawyer representing Jackson Hewitt, said
after the hearing. The plan will become effective in the “early
part of this week,” allowing the company to exit court
protection, he added.  Jackson Hewitt, based in Parsippany,  New Jersey , listed
$388.6 million in assets and $444.8 million in debt as of Jan.
31, court papers show. The company sought  bankruptcy protection 
in May after U.S. regulators moved to curb the loans that tax
preparers arrange for customers expecting refunds.  Under Jackson Hewitt’s plan, lenders owed about $357
million, will receive a new $100 million  term loan  plus all of
the reorganized company’s equity. The company also will sign a
new, $115 million revolving credit agreement. Existing
stockholders will get nothing under the plan.  The tax preparer reached a settlement with the committee of
unsecured creditors, which opposed the restructuring proposal
from the outset, giving them a share of a trust which will be
funded with $1.1 million cash payment, according to court
documents.  Jackson Hewitt prepared 2.53 million tax returns in 2010,
it said in a regulatory filing. It has about 6,000 franchised
and company-owned offices in the U.S. Last fiscal year, it
earned 94 percent of its income from Jan. 1 through April 30.  The case is In re Jackson Hewitt Tax Service, Inc.,
11-11587,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware,
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  