-- 
Japan, Australia Futures Drop on Global Outlook

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-08-08T23:19:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/japan-australian-stock-futures-drop-on-worsening-global-economic-outlook.html
Japanese and Australian  stock futures 
fell after Standard & Poor’s cut the credit rating for U.S.-
sponsored mortgage finance companies, spurring concern that the
ripple effects of the loss of America’s AAA rating may worsen a
global economic slowdown.  American depositary receipts of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc. (8306) , a large holder of U.S. bonds, sank 4.6 percent from
the closing share price in Tokyo. Those of Honda Motor Co., a
carmaker that gets almost 85 percent of its sales abroad, lost
4.5 percent. ADRs of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the biggest global
mining company and Australia’s No. 1 oil producer, retreated 3.2
percent as commodity prices tumbled.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 8,720 in  Chicago  yesterday, compared with
9,120 in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,780
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index sank 3.9 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index,
the first market to open in the Asia-Pacific region, slid 3
percent in Wellington, set for the lowest close since Sept. 2.  “There are strong concerns the global economy may be
affected by the financial and economic deterioration in the U.S.
and Europe,” said  Fumiyuki Nakanishi , a strategist at Tokyo-
based SMBC Friend Securities Co. “It’s an unpredictable
situation.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.8
percent today. In  New York , the  S&P 500  plunged 6.7 percent
yesterday, slumping 11 percent in three days, the most since
November 2008. It fell to the lowest since September 2010.  U.S. Home Lenders  Standard & Poor’s  Ratings Services yesterday lowered credit
ratings on debt issued by U.S.-backed mortgage lenders including
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , citing its own Aug. 5 downgrade of
the federal government’s AAA status.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which own or guarantee more
than half of the almost $11 trillion in outstanding U.S.
mortgage debt, were lowered one step from AAA to AA+, S&P said
in a statement today. The downgrade reflects their “direct
reliance on the U.S. government,” the ratings firm said.  Also, the rating company changed the outlook for Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. to “negative” from
“stable.” “Our view of these companies’ fundamental credit
characteristics has not changed,” S&P said in a statement as it
cut the outlook on Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire.  On Aug. 5, the rating company cut the U.S. government’s AAA
credit rating by one level to AA+ after a deadlock in Congress
over raising the federal debt limit pushed the nation to the
brink of default. Lawmakers agreed on raising the borrowing
authority only hours before an Aug. 2 deadline.  Europe Plunges  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index yesterday dropped 4.1 percent to
the lowest level since August 2009 as S&P’s downgrade of U.S.
sovereign debt overshadowed the European Central Bank’s purchase
of Spanish and Italian government bonds.  The ECB bought more Italian and Spanish government bonds to
drive yields lower, according to four people with knowledge of
the transactions. The ECB also bought Irish and Portuguese bonds,
said two of the people, who asked not to be identified because
the deals are confidential. A spokesman for the central bank
declined to comment.  “It’s pretty much become all about confidence now,” said
 James Holt , Sydney-based director of BlackRock Investment
Management ( Australia ) Ltd., which oversees about $40 billion.
“You’re seeing how effectively confidence and deception is
overtaking reality, and that’s the big risk now for stock-market
investors.”  Oil Tumbles  Crude oil for September delivery tumbled 6.4 percent to
$81.31 in New York yesterday, the lowest settlement since Nov.
23. It was the biggest one-day decline since futures tumbled 8.6
percent on May 5. The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for
six metals including copper and aluminum sank 3.2 percent, the
lowest level since Nov. 30.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 11 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with drops of 11 percent by the S&P
500 and 17 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 12.3 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 11.2 times for the S&P 500 and 9.3 times
for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in  Tokyo  at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 