-- 
Japanese Stocks Drop for Second Day After S&P Cuts U.S. Credit Rating

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-08-08T07:13:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/japanese-stocks-drop-for-second-day-after-s-p-cuts-u-s-credit-rating.html
Japanese stocks dropped, sending the
 Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average to its biggest two-day decline since
March, after Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services cut the U.S.
government’s credit rating, damping the outlook for  Asia ’s banks
and exporters.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , a large holder of U.S.
bonds, slid 2.6 percent.  Sony Corp. (6758) , a maker of consumer
electronics that gets about 40 percent of its revenue from the
U.S. and Europe, sank 3.8 percent. Nissan Motor Co.,  Japan ’s No.
3 carmaker by market value, lost 2.7 percent after the dollar
weakened, cutting the earnings prospect for the exporter.  The Nikkei 225 fell 2.2 percent to 9,097.56 at the 3 p.m.
close in Tokyo, extending losses even after the Group of Seven
nations said in a statement they would take action to support
markets. Only three stocks gained today on the 225-member gauge.
The broader Topix lost 2.3 percent to 782.86.  The U.S. downgrade “has added another significant issue
for the global economy and stock markets to overcome,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in equities at Pengana
Capital Ltd. in  Melbourne . “The risks remain to the downside
for economic growth, with a re-pricing of U.S borrowings likely
to pose a higher cost of capital in the future.”  Stocks declined even after the Group of Seven nations
sought to head off a collapse in investor confidence following
the U.S. sovereign-rating downgrade and a sell-off in Italian
and Spanish debt.  ‘All Necessary Measures’  The G-7 will take “all necessary measures to support
financial stability and growth,” the nation’s finance ministers
and central bankers said in a statement today. Members agreed to
inject liquidity and act against disorderly currency moves if
necessary.  Today’s drop in Japanese stocks extended a rout that drove
the Nikkei down 5.4 percent last week, the biggest weekly
decline since the five-day period following Japan’s March 11
earthquake.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the U.S.’s AAA credit rating on
Aug. 5 by one level, to AA+, after a deadlock in congress over
raising the federal debt limit pushed the government to the
brink of default. Lawmakers came to agreement on raising the
government’s borrowing authority only hours before an Aug. 2
deadline.  ‘American Policymaking’  “The effectiveness, stability, and predictability of
American policymaking and political institutions have weakened
at a time of ongoing fiscal and challenges,” the ratings
service said in a statement.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index sank as much as
3.1 percent, signaling that U.S. shares will fall today, as
investors weigh the impact of the credit-rating cut. The
downgrade was announced after the markets closed on Aug. 5 in
 New York .  Banks holding U.S. bonds declined today in  Tokyo .
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group retreated 2.6 percent today to
372 yen. Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc., Japan’s second-
largest publicly traded lender, dropped 2.2 percent to 2,310 yen.  Japanese stocks extended declines in the afternoon after
plunges in the Shanghai Composite Index and  South Korea ’s Kospi
index adding to investor anxiety. The Shanghai index fell as
much as 4.9 percent, while the Kospi lost as much as 7.4 percent.  “The flight from risk assets is intensifying,” said
Koichiro Nishio, a market analyst in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. “Investors around the world are looking to
reduce their equity holdings.”  Exporters Fall  Exporters fell after the yen appreciated. Sony declined 3.8
percent to 1,759 yen. Nissan slid 2.7 percent to 748 yen.
Kyocera Corp., an electronic components maker that earns about a
third of its revenue from the U.S. and  Europe , retreated 2.3
percent to 7,500 yen.  The dollar fell to a record low against the Swiss franc and
declined for a second day versus the yen. The U.S. currency
depreciated to as low as 77.58 yen today in Tokyo, compared with
78.50 at the close of  stock trading  on Aug. 5, cutting the value
of overseas income at Japanese companies when repatriated.  Ebara Corp., a pumpmaker, fell the most on the Nikkei,
plummeting 18 percent to 362 yen. The shares declined the most
since at least September 1974, according to Bloomberg data,
after it said first-quarter profit fell 58 percent to 417
million yen ($5.4 million).  “We’re in for another stomach-churning week,” said Nick Maroutsos, a Sydney-based  money manager  and co-founder at
Kapstream Capital, which oversees the equivalent of about $4
billion. “This is a life-changing event in many respects
because no one has ever seen the U.S. have a AA-rated status.
We’re going to see a lot of volatility this week.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 