-- 
Japan Airlines May Seek Air France Accord After Deal With BA

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 
2011-08-08T14:28:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/japan-airlines-may-seek-air-france-venture.html
Japan Airlines Co., considering the
formation of a venture on European routes with British Airways
and  Spain ’s Iberia, may seek a similar tie-up with Air France to
bolster operations on the continent.  “Our alliance with British Airways is the key,” President
Masaru Onishi said in an interview at the carrier’s Tokyo
headquarters on Aug. 5. “If we can cover all of  Europe  with
them, which would include Iberia as well, then we won’t need
other joint ventures. If not, we’ll look to other airlines.”  JAL may also boost cooperation with Oneworld alliance
members beyond BA and Iberia, including  Finnair Oyj (FIA1S)  on European
routes, Onishi said, as it offsets cuts made to its overseas
network during a government-backed restructuring. The carrier
has already formed a venture with AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines 
that sets fares, sells tickets and decides schedules on trans-
Pacific routes to boost sales and pare costs.  “We want to build similar agreements in Europe to our
North American one,” Onishi said. The airline currently flies
to four cities in Europe, after halting flights to Amsterdam,
Milan and  Rome  as part of its turnaround.  Onishi declined to say when he expected to reach an
agreement with British Airways and other carriers. BA and Iberia
completed a merger earlier this year, forming International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA.  SkyTeam No Bar  All Nippon Airways Co., Japan’s largest listed carrier, has
already agreed to a similar tie-up on European routes with
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , which will come into effect in October.  Oneworld allows carriers to cooperate with airlines in
different groupings, so Air France’s membership of SkyTeam
wouldn’t prevent a tie-up, Onishi said. JAL codeshares on Air
France flights to 13 cities, including Paris, Barcelona, Berlin,
Copenhagen, Dusseldorf and Hamburg, according to its website.  “We could expand our business in Europe with Air France and
KLM,” said Onishi.  Air France-KLM (AF)  owns both European airlines.  Air France codeshares with JAL on routes including Paris-
Tokyo and is open to “reinforcing the partnership in a mutually
beneficial way,” spokeswoman Constance Meyenberg said, adding
that the arrangement could be extended to other European cities.  London-based IAG regards  Japan  Airlines as a “key partner,”
spokewoman said Laura Goodes said today. “We’re looking forward
to developing a closer relationship with them,” she said.  AMR Boost  JAL’s venture with American Airlines, which began in April,
covers 10 routes between  Asia  and  North America , including New
York-Tokyo and Beijing-Chicago. The carriers predicted a
combined 13 billion yen ($166 million) in annual sales and cost-
cutting gains from the accord.  “We’ve boosted our competitiveness on trans-Pacific
routes,” Onishi said. “We’ve been able to improve cooperation
and so we’re moving to the second stage, which is making it
stronger,” he said without elaboration.  JAL has also boosted its internal management by learning
from American, Onishi said. For instance, following the March 11
earthquake, the carrier was able to adjust its schedule on a
weekly basis because of techniques learned from its partner,
which meant it was better able to match capacity to rapidly
fluctuating demand, he said. Previously, the airline would have
only adjusted flights in one-month intervals, he said.  IPO Plan  JAL last week reported operating profit of 17.1 billion yen
for the three months ended June 30, an increase of 4.3 percent
from a year earlier. Tokyo-based All Nippon had a first-quarter
operating loss of 8.1 billion yen after Japan’s largest
earthquake on record and ensuing nuclear disaster sapped travel.  JAL expects to make a full-year operating profit of 76
billion yen, after shedding staff, cutting flights and retiring
planes while under bankruptcy-court protection.  The airline, now controlled by the Enterprise Turnaround
Initiative Corp. of Japan, a government-backed turnaround fund,
is considering an initial public offering as early as next year.
It was delisted in February last year after filing for
bankruptcy the month before.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in  Tokyo  at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  