-- 
Junk Bond Risk Rises the Most on Record as Loomis Sees Possible Double-Dip

-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 
2011-08-08T18:36:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/junk-bond-swaps-plunge-most-in-year-as-double-dip-recession-chances-climb.html
Investor confidence in debt from
investment-grade corporates to  junk bonds  to commercial-mortgage
securities plunged after the U.S. credit rating was cut by
 Standard & Poor’s  and on signs the economy is slowing.  The cost to protect high-grade debt soared to the highest
level since July 2010 while a credit-default swap index tied to
junk bonds deteriorated by the most on record. A commercial-
mortgage bond benchmark fell for a ninth consecutive day, to the
lowest level in almost a year.  “The probability of a double dip has certainly been
elevated,” Matthew Eagan, a Boston-based money manager at
Loomis Sayles & Co. with $162 billion of assets, said in a
telephone interview. “This series of events has the potential
to sour confidence and result in an actual lowering of economic
activity. That’s the big risk for high-yield investors.”  Credit markets tumbled after S&P cut the U.S. one step to
AA+ on Aug. 5 after trading ended. That prompted downgrades of
government-backed mortgage-finance companies  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac , while the rating company reduced its outlook on
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. to “negative.” Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. sees a one-in-three chance of a renewed recession in the
U.S. within the next nine months, chief economist Jan Hatzius
wrote Aug. 5 in a note to clients.  Contracts on the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index, tied to the debt of 125 companies, jumped 12.7 basis
points to 115.7 basis points as of 2:28 p.m. in New York,
according to Markit Group Ltd.  2008 Volatility  “We haven’t seen this kind of volatility since 2008,”
said Rich Gordon, a fixed-income market strategist at Wells
Fargo & Co.  Speculative-grade debt, ranked below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and less than BBB- by S&P, fell as investor
concern increased that companies won’t be able to refinance.  The Markit CDX North American High Yield Index, which falls
as investor confidence deteriorates, dropped 3.9 percentage
points to 92.9 percent of face value at 2:29 p.m. in  New York ,
the lowest level since June 2010.  The extra yield investors demand to hold high-yield debt
instead of U.S. Treasuries increased 8 basis points on Aug. 5 to
624 basis points, or 6.24 percentage points, the highest since
September, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  The market is assigning a 30 percent probability of a
recession, according to  Martin Fridson , global credit strategist
at BNP Paribas Investment Partners, using the Fridson-Kong
Model, an econometric measure. The probability was 12 percent on
July 27, Fridson said in an e-mail.  CMBX Index  Commercial mortgage debt extended declines, with the Markit
CMBX index dropping 3.4 points to 60.5, the lowest level since
Aug. 16.  Top-ranked commercial mortgage-backed securities are
yielding about 261 basis points more than Treasuries, according
to a Barclays Plc index. The spread jumped 35 basis points last
week and is at the widest since Sept. 8, the index shows.  “The CMBS market has been derisking for the past couple of
months, and the slide in stocks has exacerbated that trend,”
said Jason Smith, a  money manager  at Neuberger Berman Group LLC
in  Chicago  who helps oversee $85 billion in fixed-income
securities. “The market is struggling to find the right price
for that risk.”  The world’s largest economy shrank 5.1 percent from the
fourth quarter of 2007 to the second quarter of 2009, the most
during any recession since the 1930s, according to the U.S.
Department of Commerce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 