-- 
K&L Gates Sues Former Hong Kong Partner Charged With Theft

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n   a n d   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-08-08T08:07:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/k-l-gates-sues-ex-hong-kong-partner-charged-with-theft-sued-by-companies.html
K&L Gates LLP, a Pittsburgh-based  law
firm  with 2,000 lawyers worldwide, sued a former partner in Hong
Kong after he was charged with theft and forgery in the process
of transferring funds to a Macau casino company.  The law firm “will pursue and support any and all measures
- administrative, civil and criminal - against any wrong-doer to
rectify any harm that has been done,” it said in an e-mailed
statement.  The former partner Navin Kumar Aggarwal is in custody after
police charged him June 24 with three counts of theft and three
counts of forgery. He resigned when confronted with the
allegations in mid-June, K&L Gates said. The firm, which itself
has been sued for at least HK$250.4 million ($32 million), sued
Aggarwal for breach of trust and asked  Hong Kong ’s  High Court  to
freeze his assets.  Aggarwal, 44, is scheduled to appear in court on Aug. 22 to
face the charges related to stealing HK$16.6 million from the
accounts of RIM China Co. held with K&L Gates and transferring
the funds to Wynn International Marketing Ltd. last year. His
lawyer, Gloria Chan, declined to comment when reached by
telephone.  K&L Gates said it “immediately” began collaborating with
Hong Kong authorities when it learned of the matter, and has
hired independent counsel and forensic accountants for an
investigation supervised by its  Asia  Managing Partner David Tang.  Asia Growth  The law firm has been expanding in Asia, announcing the
additions of a  new partner in Shanghai  in June, 10 lawyers in
 Tokyo  in May and a new Hong Kong partner in March. Last year it
hired Rose Zhu from Allen & Overy LLP for its Beijing office.  Valerie Cheung, a spokeswoman for  The Law Society of Hong
Kong , said it has imposed conditions on Aggarwal’s law license.
She declined to elaborate citing ongoing court proceedings.  Aggarwal breached his duties to K&L Gates and should return
the “secret profits” obtained as a result, the law firm said
in its June 27 lawsuit.  A 2010 law firm brochure says Aggarwal was part of the
firm’s Betting and Gaming practice.  Wynn Macau spokeswoman Reddy Leong wrote in an e-mail that
the company doesn’t comment on legal proceedings when asked
about the nature of Aggarwal’s transactions.  Wynn Resorts Ltd (WYNN) , the indirect owner of Wynn International
Marketing, operates two casinos in Macau, a 70-minute ferry ride
from Hong Kong.  Smartworld, Emperor  Smartworld International Ltd. sued K&L Gates on July 6,
along with Aggarwal and former Hong Kong managing partner
Clifford Ng, demanding the return of HK$44 million held in trust
in escrow accounts by the law firm, according to the lawsuit. Ng
is now listed as “ of counsel ” on the firm’s website.  “K&L Gates had failed to follow the usual arrangement
which required it to draft and forward the relevant appointment
of escrow agent letter,” Smartworld said in its court papers.  Emperor Securities Ltd., a unit of  Emperor Capital Group
Ltd. (717) , accused K&L Gates and its Hong Kong partners on July 12 of
being negligent and breaching a contractual agreement after the
law firm failed to return HK$40 million, according to its
lawsuit.  Hind International Investment Ltd. asked for HK$31.4
million back in a writ filed on Aug. 4.  Penguin Assets Ltd and Silver Vision Ltd. claimed K&L Gates
breached their trust and are demanding the return of HK$30
million, the companies said in a lawsuit filed July 7.  The law firm faces two other claims from Wang Qiang and Lam
Shu Chung for HK$75 million and HK$30 million held in escrow
respectively.  Wang is a “victim,” said Calvin Chow of P.C. Woo & Co.
who represents both Smartworld and Wang. He declined to comment
further.  The civil cases are K&L Gates v Navin Kumar Aggarwal
HCA1061/2011, Hind International Investment Ltd v K&L Gates
HCA1352/2011, Smartworld International Ltd. v Navin Kumar
Aggarwal & Ors, HCA1136/2011, Penguin Assets Ltd v K&L Gates
HCA1142/2011, Emperor Securities Ltd v Navin Kumar Aggarwal &
Ors HCA1167/2011, Lam Shu Chung v Navin Kumar Aggarwal & Ors
HCA1244/2011 and Wang Qiang v Navin Kumar Aggarwal & Ors
HCA1048/2011. The criminal case is HKSAR v Navin Kumar Aggarwal
ESC2673/2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ;
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  