-- 
Kanye West’s Hitler Rant, Tears for Amy, Plant Shines: Review

-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 
2011-08-08T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/kanye-west-s-hitler-rant-tears-for-amy-plant-shines-at-big-chill-review.html
Kanye West  stirred up the crowd at
the  Big Chill  festival in the U.K. with a rant about Hitler.  “I walk down the street, and people look at me like I’m
insane, like I’m Hitler,” the 34-year-old U.S. rapper told the
audience at the four-day weekend event in Herefordshire. His
complaints that he was misunderstood were met with boos.  Robert Plant, meanwhile, moved further from his Led Zeppelin days, and the specter of  Amy Winehouse  loomed. West,
 Jessie J  and  Neneh Cherry  paid tribute to the singer.  Dionne
Broomfield  wept at the end of her soulful set as she dedicated
her final song, “Love Is a Losing Game,” to Winehouse, her
godmother and manager, who died on July 23.  West said he was 30 minutes late starting his “most
important gig of the summer” because “I only have half my
voice” and wanted the show to be perfect. U.K. newspaper the
Sun reported that he had a heated backstage argument.  In a 10-minute diatribe, the singer also said that most of
those people who criticized his video “Monster” hadn’t even
seen it. The film includes scenes of cannibalism and lingerie-
clad models hanging from chains.  “Women’s groups started saying that a person that lost the
most important woman in his life is now against women in some
way,” he said, referring to the death of his mother.  West’s machine-gun raps during a two-hour show needed
subtitles. He ran around the stage in an over-expensive
production featuring 20 ballerinas as his rapper’s ego grew even
more bombastic than the fireworks and lasers.  Led Zep Hits  By contrast, Plant played the last gig of his Band of Joy’s
13-month tour dressed down in jeans and with minimal fuss. His
set was immaculate, mixing Zeppelin classics such as “Black
Dog” with newer songs like “Angel Dance.”  The Big Chill has long won recognition for its laid-back
atmosphere and cutting-edge acts -- a reputation much bigger
than its size. The audience is only a fifth of the 200,000 who
mass at Glastonbury,  Fuji Rock  and  Coachella . It started in
1994, featuring mainly ambient music and has slowly been moving
toward a more mainstream approach.  This year’s other headliners included Chemical Brothers,
with a nonstop barrage of dance music, and frenetic guitar
playing from  Mexico ’s  Rodrigo y Gabriela  -- anything but
ambient.  While Plant made jokes about “no reggae” during his set,
there was plenty to be heard from  Steel Pulse  and veteran  Horace
Andy . He reprised one of his earliest songs, “Money Is the Root
of All Evil,” wearing one of the most alarmingly loud scarlet
outfits seen onstage since maybe 1970.  Janelle Monae ordered the crowd to get down at the finale
of her spectacular sci-fi show, at which point a torrential
rainstorm broke out. “I made that happen,” she joked.  The joy is finding  new talent , and those exploring here
would have found  Sneaky , a virtuoso on the electric double bass.
 Smoove and Turrell , a good-time band from Newcastle, northern
 England , can be relied on to fire up any party.  For more information, see  http://www.bigchill.net/ .  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in Ledbury, England, at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 