-- 
Kanye West, Lil’ Kim Give Props to Frizzante, Summery Moscato

-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 
2011-08-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/kanye-west-lil-kim-give-props-to-frizzante-summery-moscato-elin-mccoy.html
Lazing in a hammock, chilled glass in
hand, I’m sipping my new favorite summer wine, moscato d’Asti.  Who knew that this would bond me to the hip-hop community?
Ever since rapper  Kanye West  started giving shout-outs five
years ago to the lightly fizzy, perfumey white wine, moscato has
been a varietal on the rise.  There are four main varieties of the versatile muscat grape,
which can be made in styles from dry to sweet. The star of the
family, though, is moscato bianco, used in Italy’s classic
moscato d’Asti, from the Asti area of Piemonte.  These wines mostly fall in the middle of the sweetness
spectrum and are gently sparkling, or, as Italians say,
frizzante. They’re the frivolous, under-$20 whites in a serious
region that produces collectible, expensive Barolos.  While the grape has been a local staple since the Crusades,
only with modern cellar technology was the current style of
moscato d’Asti possible.  Thanks to heady aromas of orange blossom and rose petals,
refreshing citrus and pear flavors, and only 5 to 6 percent
alcohol, today’s gulpable fizzy moscato could practically be a
breakfast wine. It has day-drinking written all over it.  With light sweetness balanced by zingy acidity, most
examples play well as an easy-drinking aperitif, weekend brunch
wine, sunset-watching beach pour, dessert partner or late night
sipper while stargazing in the hot tub.  After years of being overlooked except by hard-core
Italophiles, the wines now have buzz -- as well as the
inevitable cheap copycat versions from California and  Australia .  According to research company Nielsen, moscato is the
fastest growing white varietal, or as vice president Danny
Brager told  Wine & Spirits Daily  last month, one of this year’s
“speeding bullets.’’  Kanye’s Party  In the U.S. market, retail sales overall grew more than 100
percent last year. It’s hard to know how much the hip-hop
community has helped the market. After Kanye West chose Saracco
Moscato d’Asti to pour at a “listening party’’ in Atlanta in
2005 and then mentioned it in a remixed version of Teairra
Mari’s “Make Her Feel Good,’’ orders poured in to the importer,
Brian Larky of Napa Valley-based  Dalla Terra Winery Direct .  Lil’ Kim slips the line “Still over in  Brazil /Sippin’
moscato’’ into her best-selling single “Lighters Up.’’ Canada’s
Aubrey Drake Graham, who acts and records as Drake, pairs a
glass of moscato with lobster and shrimp in Trey Songz’ “I
Invented Sex.’’ And a song called “Moscato’’ appears on an Ab-
soul disc with Kendrick Lamar that came out earlier this year.  Australian Copy  The buzz is there, ditto the sales, and the name moscato is
easy to pronounce and remember. No wonder Australian plonk label
Yellowtail released their first one this spring. To see how the
ubiquitous big brand copies compare with real Moscato d’Asti, I
set up a blind tasting of nearly two dozen bottles.  The taste gap reminds me of the way remakes of classic films
rarely succeed as well as the original. Most are simple and,
frankly, yucky.  I don’t find the Yellowtail ($7) “more refreshing than a
scoop of sorbet’’ as the press release promises, but people who
like lemon-lime soda will probably love it.  I’d dismissed the pale pink 2011 Innocent Bystander rose
moscato ($15) from Australia because of its oh-so cutesy name.
But I find it’s lively and refreshing, with watermelon and rose
petal aromas and attractive strawberry and citrus tastes that
are definitely adult. The wine comes with a crown cap, like
beer, and in Australia more than a dozen restaurants and hotels
are serving it on tap.  Orange Blossom  My highest scores, though, go to  Italy ’s moscato d’Astis
from the 2010 vintage, which cost between $14 and $16. Two vie
for top place. The Saracco, made by moscato specialist Paolo
Saracco, has fresh lemon-drop acidity, savory elegance, and a
seductive creamy texture. (I’m with Kanye on this one.) The Elio
Perrone Sourgal is delicate, more complex than most, and has a
tantalizing orange blossom aroma and a balance of citrusy fruit
and minerality.  But I also like the sweeter Vietti “Cascinetta’’ with its
ginger and peach aromas and round, peachy flavors. Same for the
La Spinetta “Bricco Quaglia,’’ the first single vineyard
moscato in Italy, made by renowned winemaker Giorgio Rivetti.
Silky textured and frothy, it has a sweet spiciness.  Later, I stop in at my local wine merchant to see what he
stocks and how moscato is playing in my town of 2,800 residents.  “What’s not to like? They have the deliciousness factor,’’
says owner Ira Smith, who shows me the five Moscato d’Astis and
seven other labels he stocks.  He repeats the old truism: Americans talk dry, but really
like to drink sweet. Besides, he says, remember those moscato
d’Astis are made by the same guys who make $250 cult Barolos.  And there’s another, bigger reason. These are fun wines you
don’t have to think about, only enjoy. Just right for summer.  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of the story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 