-- 
Krone Appreciates Versus Euro on Safety Bid Amid Debt Concern

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   E d   B a l l a r d
-- 
2011-08-08T14:53:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/krone-appreciates-versus-euro-on-safety-bid-amid-debt-concern.html
The Norwegian krone strengthened
versus the euro as investors sought the safest assets amid
concern that the European debt crisis may worsen.  The krone advanced versus against a majority of 16 major
peers tracked by Bloomberg as the  European Central Bank  was said
to buy Spanish and Italian  government bonds  in an attempt to
stop the crisis from spreading. The Swiss franc and Japanese
yen, traditionally havens from financial turmoil, also advanced
after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S. credit rating one level to
AA+ from AAA on Aug. 5. The Swedish krona also appreciated
against the 17-member common currency.  The krone is “a good destination for investors to park
some of their money as a safe haven,” said  Carl Hammer , chief
foreign-exchange strategist at Stockholm-based SEB AG. Today’s
gains in the krone and krona are “a sign of strength and of
defensive qualities for both currencies,” he said.  Norway’s krone rose 0.4 percent against the euro to 7.7887
and fell 0.5 percent to 5.5013 per dollar as of 3:30 p.m. in
London. Sweden’s krona gained 0.2 percent to 9.2346 per euro.  “I can see that foreign banks are keen on the story of the
safe haven,” said Ole Haakon Eek-Nielsen, an analyst at Nordea
Bank AB in Oslo. “It’s all the fundamentals: low unemployment,
high real-estate prices, high growth, high growth estimates,
high public budget surpluses, and the oil fund is huge, so if we
face any problem, we can easily fend them off.”  Norges Bank Decision  Norway ’s central bank announces its interest rate decision
on August 10. The bank will raise its overnight deposit rate by
25 basis points to 2.5 percent, according to the median estimate
of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Policy makers in June left the rate unchanged at 2.25
percent and signaled they would raise this month. Still, Norges
Bank Governor Oeystein Olsen said in a June interview that the
bank is ready to rethink its rate plans should the debt crisis
move to bigger European countries.  “The interest rates decision is very important,” said
Nordea’s Eek-Nielsen. “If they hike, that might get the euro-
krone lower.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 