-- 
Kuwait Hopes Oil Price Rebounds in Few Weeks, Minister Says

-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-08-08T09:16:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/kuwait-hopes-oil-price-rebounds-within-few-weeks-minister-says.html
Kuwait hopes  oil prices  will rebound
in the next two or three weeks and “settle” at a level
favorable to producers and consumers, Oil Minister Mohammad al- Busairy said.  “It’s very difficult to discuss the price in this
situation. We hope the price will recover within two or three
weeks from now, but we don’t know,” al-Busairy said in a phone
interview today from  Kuwait City . “There’s no guarantee about
the situation in the States and  Europe , and debt in Italy or
 Spain .”  Oil fell in New York after  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the
U.S. credit rating from the highest level, stoking concern an
economic slowdown will worsen and cut fuel demand in the world’s
biggest crude consumer. Crude for September delivery fell as
much as $3.70 to $83.18 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange and was at $84.44 at 9:39 a.m. London time. The
contract slipped to $82.87 on Aug. 25, the lowest intraday price
since Nov. 26. Prices declined 9.2 percent last week, the most
in three months, and are down 7.6 percent so far this year.  Kuwait would like to see oil prices “settle” to a level
suitable for both consumers and producers, the minister said.
“This is the good price for both of us,” he added.  July Production  Kuwait, the fourth-biggest producer along with the  United
Arab Emirates  in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, produced 2.65 million to 2.7 million barrels a day in
July and reached a “ceiling” of about 2.8 million barrels
“sometimes” last month, al-Busairy said. The minister forecast
output of 2.7 million to 2.8 million barrels a day in August.  The country is capable of producing at a rate of 3.050
million barrels day, al-Busairy said, “but we don’t want to
reach that amount until we need this figure” and until there is
demand on the market.  The Supreme Petroleum Council, the emirate’s highest
decision-making body for oil policy, approved construction in
June of a 615,000 barrel-a-day refinery to help meet domestic
fuel demand. The council also approved plans to upgrade two of
the country’s three existing refineries so that they can produce
cleaner-burning fuels. Kuwait will spend about 9 billion dinars
($33 billion) on both projects, al-Busairy said today.  “The whole amount will be spent over two to three years
from the end of this year,” he said.  The projects are currently being supervised and monitored
by the state Audit Bureau, he said. “We have to give them all
the details in advance, to follow it,” to ensure all procedures
are correct, the minister said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  