-- 
Nestle May Aim to Rebuild in Chinese Baby Food With Pfizer Unit

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-08-08T22:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/nestle-may-aim-to-rebuild-in-chinese-baby-food-with-pfizer-unit.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , the Swiss company said to
be preparing a bid for  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s baby-food unit, may aim to
regain momentum in  China ’s infant formula market by acquiring
the maker of SMA Gold.  Buying the business would propel Vevey, Switzerland-based
Nestle to No. 3 from No. 6 in China’s infant-nutrition market,
Sara Welford, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in  London , said by
phone. It would also offer potential cost savings equal to 10
percent of the unit’s sales, she estimates.  Nestle is the global leader in infant nutrition, the
fastest-growing segment of the packaged-food industry. It’s lost
market share in China since 2005, when it withdrew two varieties
of Neslac milk powder because authorities found they contained
too much iodine. Pfizer, the fourth-biggest baby-food company in
the country, said July 7 it may sell or spin off its nutrition
unit, sparking interest from Nestle,  Danone (BN)  SA and Abbott
Laboratories, according to people with knowledge of the process.  “China is the single most attractive baby-food market and
the company has been losing share there,” said Ildiko Szalai,
an analyst at Euromonitor International in London, who estimates
that Nestle’s share of the market shrank by a third to less than
6 percent from 2005 through 2009. “It’s a priority for them.”  Global sales of baby-food products are likely to gain 6
percent a year from 2010 to 2015, according to  Euromonitor ,
which says that growth is being helped by low private-label
penetration and the importance of infant nutrition to consumers.  Market Growth  China’s baby-food market grew about 21 percent last year to
more than 42.1 billion yuan ($6.5 billion) and will probably
expand about 17 percent a year from 2010 to 2015, the researcher
estimates.  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN)  had an industry-leading
share of about 13 percent in 2009, it says.  Pfizer’s baby-food business, gained through its 2009
purchase of Wyeth, had $1.9 billion in sales last year and
according to people familiar with the matter may fetch $10.5
billion in a sale. The unit makes the SMA Gold line of products
for infants and children and Enercal supplements for adults.  Nestle stepped up expansion in China with the $1.7 billion
purchase in July of a 60 percent stake of Hsu Fu Chi
International Ltd., the country’s biggest confectioner by market
value. The maker of Gerber baby food aims to boost the portion
of sales it gets from emerging markets to 45 percent by 2020
from about 40 percent. Unilever, the maker of Magnum ice cream,
gets about 54 percent from developing regions.  Nestle Acquisitions  Nestle has made 19 acquisitions since the end of 2009,
according to Bloomberg data. The company has said it plans to
use its cash of more than 16 billion Swiss francs ($21 billion)
to invest in existing businesses and make “bolt-on”
acquisitions. Spokeswoman Melanie Kohli declined to comment on
whether Nestle would be interested in acquiring the Pfizer unit.  A purchase of the business may boost profit by about 2
percent within three years, according to Citigroup’s Welford.
So-called organic sales at Nestle’s nutrition unit probably rose
8.8 percent in the first half of 2011, according to Jean- Philippe Bertschy, an analyst at Bank Vontobel in Zurich.  Nestle, the world’s biggest foodmaker, is scheduled to
report first-half earnings tomorrow. Net income probably fell to
4.61 billion Swiss francs, according to the average estimate of
11 analysts compiled by Bloomberg, hurt by higher raw-material
costs and marketing spending. So-called organic sales, which
exclude acquisitions, disposals and currency shifts, rose 6.5
percent, the estimates show.  Nestle last year got 10.4 billion francs, or about 10
percent of revenue, from nutrition brands such as Cerelac and
Nestle Nan. The unit makes products ranging from formula milk
for babies to cereals and snacks for toddlers.  Regulatory Hurdles  Paris-based rival Danone, which produces Bebelac formula
milk, generated about 3.36 billion euros ($4.8 billion), or 20
percent of sales, from baby nutrition products in 2010. Revenue
from the business increased about 10 percent in the first half.  While Nestle and Danone would both be capable of increasing
earnings within three years of buying Wyeth, both would probably
be required to sell parts of the  business , Welford said. Nestle
would likely face regulatory hurdles in  Latin America , while
Danone may encounter similar constraints in the U.K., Ireland,
 Australia  and  New Zealand , she said.  Nestle may decide that the antitrust issues are too great,
according to Jeff Stent, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in
London, who said it’s “questionable” whether the Swiss company
will make an offer for the unit. Nestle would probably have to
sell parts of the Pfizer business accounting for as much as 45
percent of the unit’s sales, he said.  Attractive Option  Wyeth may be the “most attractive” option for Danone,
given a scarcity of large acquisition targets in emerging
markets, Stent said. While the French company would be
“somewhat stretched” to finance a deal, it would be able to
acquire the Pfizer business by increasing its debt, he said.
Danone had net debt of 7.3 billion euros at the end of 2010.  While Mead Johnson may have a strategic interest in
acquiring the Pfizer unit, financially it may find such a
purchase difficult, according to Jean-Philippe Bertschy, an
analyst at Bank Vontobel in Zurich. The Glenview, Illinois-based
company had net debt of $938.1 million at the end of last year.  Pfizer, the world’s biggest drugmaker, has said it doesn’t
expect to make any further announcements about the alternatives
for the two businesses until 2012. The U.S. company, which is
being advised by Morgan Stanley and  Centerview Partners , also
said any transaction may take up to two years to complete.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  