-- 
News Corp. May Increase Quarterly Dividend, Accelerate Share Repurchases

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-08-09T08:15:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/news-corp-may-increase-quarterly-dividend-accelerate-share-repurchases.html
News Corp. (NWSA) , trying to rebuild
investor confidence after a phone-hacking scandal, may raise its
quarterly dividend by 20 percent when the company reports
earnings tomorrow, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The payout probably will rise to 9 cents a share from 7.5
cents, according to projections.  News Corp. (NWS)  may instead hasten
share purchases under a $5 billion buyback, said Brett Harriss,
an analyst at Gabelli & Co., which owns voting and nonvoting
stock of the New York-based company. News Corp.’s board meets
today and earnings are set for tomorrow after markets close.  The dividend and buyback may mollify stock investors stung
by a 25 percent drop since July 4, when a story by the U.K.
Guardian newspaper led to revelations of widespread phone-
hacking by the company’s News of the World tabloid. Chairman
 Rupert Murdoch , 80, will be on an investor conference call after
the profit report, said a person with knowledge of the situation
who wasn’t authorized to talk publicly.  “I think most investors want to see an aggressive
repurchase,” said Harriss, who has a “hold” rating on the
stock. “They would highlight that there’s a $5 billion
authorization and say they intend to repurchase aggressively.”  First Gathering  Today’s board meeting at the Twentieth Century Fox studio
in Los Angeles marks the first formal gathering of company’s 16
directors since the U.K. phone-hacking scandal broke. The public
relations firm Sard Verbinnen & Co., hired to help News Corp.
respond to the crisis, has surveyed the largest shareholders to
gauge investor opinion ahead of the earnings conference call.  News Corp. fell $1.05, or 7.2 percent, to $13.62 yesterday
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading on a day when the  S&P 500 index 
declined 6.7 percent for the biggest drop since December 2008.
The stock slipped 1.4 percent to A$13.76 at the close of trading
in Sydney today.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  Teri Everett, a spokeswoman for News Corp., owner of the
Wall Street Journal and Fox TV networks, didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  In the wake of the scandal, News Corp. formed a Management
and Standards Committee to assist in the official U.K.
investigation and to examine the company’s practices.  Earnings Call  The panel reports to  Joel Klein , a company executive vice
president and director. Klein, in turn, reports to Viet Dinh,
the independent director who heads the Nominating and Corporate
Governance Committee. Both will update the full board, News
Corp. said on July 18.  The dividend projections are based on seven criteria,
including a company’s guidance, dividend history, regression-
analysis and put-call parity. News Corp. last raised its
quarterly payout in February 2010 by 25 percent, to the current
rate from 6 cents.  Murdoch’s participation on the call will be his first in a
year, according to transcripts of past earnings conferences. He
was reported to be traveling and unavailable in November 2010
and didn’t participate on calls in February and May this year.  The News Corp. chairman did take part in a February press
conference announcing the company’s “The Daily” news product
for Apple Inc.’s iPad tablet computer.  David Joyce , a Miller Tabak & Co. analyst in  New York , said
a small dividend increase is possible. Analysts will be most
interested in the outlook for the company and economy after the
phone-hacking scandal forced News Corp. to abandon its 7.8-
billion-pound ($12.7 billion) offer for the 61 percent of
British Sky Broadcasting Plc that it doesn’t own.  Apologies  “We were looking for BSkyB to be part of the company,
because it was going to add a lot to  cash flow , but that isn’t
going to happen now,” said Joyce, who recommends investors buy
News Corp. shares.  Murdoch may also apologize again for the phone-hacking
scandal, Joyce said. The revelations led to the closing of the
168-year-old British tabloid newspaper, the resignations of two
executives and the arrests of at least 11 people.  Last month,  James Murdoch , 38, the company’s deputy chief
operating officer and son of Rupert, apologized for the
newspaper’s phone hacking in testimony before the U.K.
Parliament’s Culture, Media and Sports Committee in  London .  Rupert Murdoch, also the company’s chief executive officer,
apologized to the family of murdered U.K. teen Milly Dowler. The
Guardian’s July 4 report that the News of the World hacked her
telephone and deleted voicemails after the 2002 killing sparked
the scandal.  Share Buyback  “Someone might still ask if there has been any advertiser
concern about the issue spilling into other assets, like in the
U.S., where the FBI is looking into reported claims of 9/11
victims’ hacking,” Joyce said of tomorrow’s earnings call.  News Corp. almost tripled its existing share repurchase
authorization to $5 billion on July 12, a week after the phone-
hacking scandal exploded. The plan was to buy those shares over
the coming 12 months, according to the company announcement at
the time.  The company probably finished the June quarter, the last of
its fiscal year, with $12.3 billion in cash and short-term
investments, according to Harriss. News Corp. closed the March
quarter with $11.8 billion and $15.5 billion of long-term debt,
according to company reports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Golum at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net  