-- 
Nigerian Banking Stocks Heading For 11-Month Low on Concerns About Capital

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 
2011-08-08T13:12:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/nigerian-banking-stocks-heading-for-11-month-low-on-concerns-about-capital.html
Nigerian bank stocks headed for an
11-month low after the central bank nationalized three lenders
it deemed unlikely to meet a Sept. 30 deadline to recapitalize.  The Bloomberg Banking Index, which tracks performance of
the 10 most capitalized banks in the industry, lost 4.5 percent
to 314.17 by 12:16 p.m. in Lagos. A close at the level will be
its lowest since Sept. 27.  The Asset Management Corp. of  Nigeria , or Amcon, took over
Afribank Plc, Bank PHB Plc and Spring Bank Plc on Aug. 6 after
the central bank revoked their licenses saying they were
unlikely to meet the Sept. 30 deadline. Amcon, which assured
depositors they won’t lose their money, yesterday appointed a
new board for the lenders that were renamed Mainstreet Bank
Ltd., Keystone Bank Ltd. and Enterprise Bank Ltd. respectively.  “Given the surprising nature of the announcement, we
expect market sentiments to remain tilted towards the negative
in the near term for the banking sector, and a short-lived run
on the nationalized banks,” Adesoji Solanke, a Lagos-based
banking analyst with  Renaissance Capital , wrote in an e-mailed
note to clients today.  Zenith Bank Plc (ZENITHBA) , the country’s biggest lender by market
value, headed for its lowest close since Sept. 30. The stock
fell 67 kobo, or 4.9 percent, to 12.92 naira by 12:53 p.m.
 Guaranty Trust Bank Plc (GUARANTY) , the second-biggest lender, declined 66
kobo, or 5 percent, to 12.59 naira.  First Bank of Nigeria Plc (FIRSTBAN) ,
the third- biggest lender, lost 4.9 percent to 10.63 naira.  The action of the Nigerian regulators has “exacerbated a
downward slide in the local stocks” that was caused by the debt
crisis in  Europe  and the U.S., David Adonri, chief executive
officer of Lambeth Trust & Investment Co., a Lagos-based
brokerage, said by phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  