-- 
Nigeria Plans to Inject $4.5 Billion Into Three Banks to Restore Stability

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 
2011-08-08T16:02:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/nigeria-to-inject-4-5-billion-into-three-banks-nationalized-on-saturday.html
Nigeria  will inject 679 billion naira
($4.5 billion) into three banks nationalized by the government
two days ago in a further step to restore stability in the
banking system of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer.  The funds will be raised through bond sales today and paid
to the banks, Mustafa Chike-Obi, managing director of Asset
Management Corp. of Nigeria, said by phone from Lagos.  Amcon, as the state-owned company is known, took over
Afribank Plc,  Bank PHB Plc (PLATINUM)  and  Spring Bank Plc (SPRINGBK)  on Aug. 6 after
the central bank revoked their licenses the day before, saying
they were unlikely to meet a Sept. 30 deadline to recapitalize.
This action is the latest by the Central Bank of Nigeria
Governor Lamido Sanusi to clean up the banking industry after
the global financial crisis led to about $10 billion of toxic
debts on lenders’ books.  “The  Nigerian Stock Exchange  has placed the shares of the
affected banks on full suspension as a first step towards their
delisting from the Daily Official List,” the bourse said today
in a statement on its website. This means that no trading will
occur in the shares of these banks as they “no longer exist
following the revocation of their licenses.”  Banking Stocks Fall  Nigeria’s banking stocks fell for a 10th consecutive day.
The Bloomberg Banking Index, which tracks performance of the 10
most capitalized banks in the industry, lost 3.5 percent to
317.30 by the 2:30 p.m. close in Lagos, its lowest since Sept.
27.  Amcon, which was set up by the government to buy the bad
debt of banks, assured depositors on Aug. 6 they won’t lose
their money. New boards of directors were appointed for the
lenders, which were renamed Mainstreet Bank Ltd., Keystone Bank
Ltd. and Enterprise Bank Ltd. respectively.  “The nationalizations bring to an intermediate end a sorry
chapter in Nigeria’s recent banking history,” Sebastian Spio- Garbrah, managing director of New York-based DaMina Advisors
LLP, a frontier-market risk adviser, said in an e-mail to
clients today. “Nigeria’s banks today are safer than many” in
developed countries, he said.  Sanusi fired the chief executives of eight of the country’s
24 lenders in 2009 after a debt crisis threatened the industry
with a collapse, and injected 620 billion naira to rescue
lenders. The crisis was triggered after  oil prices  tumbled and
the benchmark  stock index  slumped 34 percent in 2009.  Managing Banks  “Amcon’s remit just got much larger,” Olubunmi Asaolu,
head of equity research at FBN Capital Ltd., said in a note to
clients today. “In addition to trying to recover bad loans, it
also has to manage three rescued banks for three years after
which it hopes to sell them.”  Amcon yesterday appointed Jacob Ajekigbe, a former managing
director of First Bank of Nigeria Plc, as chairman of Keystone
Bank and Oti Ikomi as managing director, it said in an e-mailed
statement. Falalu Bello was named chairman of Mainstreet Bank,
with Faith Tuedor-Matthews the managing director. Emeka Onwuka,
a former managing director of Diamond Bank Plc, was appointed
chairman and Ahmed Kuru managing director of Enterprise Bank.  The cash injection into the new banks will raise their
capital adequacy ratio to the required 15 percent and enable
them to repay the capital provided by the central bank in 2009,
Chike-Obi said on Aug. 6.  Shares Suspended  The Securities and Exchange Commission suspended the shares
of Afribank, Bank PHB and Spring, it said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  The steps taken these past two days mark an end to
Nigeria’s financial crisis, central bank Deputy Governor
Kingsley Moghalu said on Aug. 6. The nation’s banks will be
adequately capitalized by Oct. 1, and “all of the major
systemic” challenges will have been resolved by the end of the
year, he told reporters in Lagos.  “Although we welcome the fact that the curtains are
finally coming down on this saga which has been ongoing for the
best part of two years, the fact that two of the largest rescued
banks ended up being nationalized is disappointing,” Asaolu
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 