-- 
Obama Allies See ‘Tea Party Downgrade’ as \They Seek to Reassure Investors

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-08-08T02:36:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/obama-allies-see-tea-party-downgrade-as-they-seek-to-reassure-investors.html
The Obama administration sought to
reassure global investors and push back against  Standard &
Poor’s  first-ever downgrade of the nation’s credit rating while
trying to pin responsibility on Tea Party Republicans.  With markets opening for the first time since S&P lowered
the credit rating on  U.S. debt  to AA+ from AAA, Democrats and
Republicans traded blame for the political standoff over the
nation’s debt.  “This is essentially a Tea Party downgrade,”  David Axelrod , President  Barack Obama ’s political strategist and
former White House aide, said yesterday on the CBS program
“Face the Nation.”  S&P’s downgrade followed the biggest weekly selloff in U.S.
stocks in 32 months, with the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  slumping 7.2 percent
to its lowest level since November. Falling stock prices along
with sluggish economic growth and an  unemployment rate  hovering
above 9 percent are clouding Obama’s re-election prospects next
year, and the fallout may hit members of Congress from both
parties.  Investors seeking a haven amid concerns the global economic
rebound is fading have bought Treasuries in recent weeks, even
after S&P warned it may lower the U.S. rating. Yields on
benchmark 10-year notes closed at 2.56 percent Aug. 5, before
S&P announced its decision, down from 3.12 percent a month ago.  Treasury Market  Treasury 10-year futures were little changed in early Asian
trading. Contracts for September delivery rose 1/32, or 31 cents
per $1,000 face amount, to 127 2/32 as of 8:23 a.m. in  Tokyo ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. lawmakers need to come together as they did for a
1980s overhaul of Social Security, and compromise on the medium-
term consolidation of the country’s fiscal position, said  John Chambers , chairman of S&P’s sovereign debt committee.  “This is a problem that has to be addressed by the full
spectrum of political parties,” he said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television.  Two other ratings companies, Moody’s Investors Service and
Fitch Ratings, affirmed their AAA credit ratings for the U.S. on
Aug. 2, the day Obama signed a bill that ended the debt-ceiling
impasse. Moody’s and Fitch both said downgrades were possible if
lawmakers fail to enact debt-reduction measures and the economy
weakens.  Greenspan’s View  Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said U.S.
government bonds are safe investments. “Very much so,” he said
on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program. The S&P downgrade, which
stemmed from the political clash over the debt limit, “hit a
nerve that there’s something basically bad going on,” Greenspan
said.  Greenspan said he expects stocks to continue their decline
as markets open.  “Considering the momentum in which the market went down
over the last week, it is very unlikely, if history is any guide,
that this isn’t going to take a while to bottom out,” Greenspan
said. “So the initial reaction in my judgment is going to be
negative.”  Once regarded by some observers as the greatest central
banker, Greenspan has seen his legacy tarnished since the U.S.
subprime-mortgage market collapsed in 2007. Having run the Fed
from 1987 to 2006, he said in October 2008 that a “flaw” in the
ideology of free-market risk management he had espoused
contributed to the “once-in-a-century” credit crisis.  Origin of Crisis  Former Fed Governor Edward Gramlich, who died in 2007, had
urged Greenspan to strengthen bank oversight during the record
2004-06 mortgage boom. Brooksley Born, who chaired the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission from 1996 to 1999, cited Greenspan as
among those who pushed back at her effort to spur legislation to
make over-the-counter derivatives more transparent. Greenspan
also was widely interpreted to have endorsed Bush administration
tax cuts, which have contributed to record fiscal deficits, in
2001 congressional testimony.  Equity futures sank, signaling the market may extend its
worst slump since the  bull market  began in 2009, while oil slid
as the loss of the U.S.’s top  credit rating  fueled concern the
economic slowdown will worsen.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 2 percent
to 1,173.80 at 8:49 a.m. in Tokyo. The dollar dropped to as low
as 74.85 Swiss centimes before trading at 76.23.  Blame Game  Republicans said Obama bore responsibility for the crisis
over the nation’s long-term debt because he had failed to offer
a plan to lead the country out of unsustainable budget deficits.  “He’s had a chance,” Senator  Lindsey Graham  of South
Carolina said on “Face the Nation.” “We’re three years into
this. And he’s failing. And it’s not the Tea Party’s fault.”  Obama received a briefing from Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and National Economic Council Director Gene Sperling
when he returned to the White House yesterday from Camp David,
the presidential retreat, according to an administration
official who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  Still, there were no plans so far for Obama to address the
S&P action himself, something his aides said would bolster the
credibility of the ratings company, which the administration and
its allies were trying to diminish throughout the weekend.  The Treasury Department said S&P made a $2 trillion error
in calculating the government’s debt in the initial analysis it
presented the government.  ‘Wrong Conclusion’  Geithner said S&P “drew exactly the wrong conclusion”
from the budget agreement reached between the administration and
Congress.  “S&P has shown really terrible judgment and they’ve
handled themselves very poorly,” Geithner said in the
transcript of an interview with CNBC broadcast last night. “And
they’ve shown a stunning lack of knowledge about basic U.S.
fiscal budget math.”  Axelrod said S&P made “an egregious analytical error” in
coming up with the rating and “ theirs was largely a political
analysis.”  He and Geithner said there should be no concern on the part
of investors. The U.S. “is still the safest place to put your
money,” Axelrod said.  “There’s no risk the U.S. would never meet its
obligations,” Geithner said. “We’ve got some challenges ahead
of us, but we’ll be able to work with those challenges.”  Geithner’s Tenure  In another step to try to settle markets, the
administration said yesterday that Geithner would remain in the
job at least through the 2012 elections, following months of
speculation over his future.  Republican presidential candidates jumped on Obama after
the downgrade. Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , the
frontrunner in most polls, said, “America’s creditworthiness
just became the latest casualty” of Obama’s poor leadership.  Axelrod said it was the “strident voices” in the
 Republican Party  who scuttled a possible deal between Obama and
House Speaker John Boehner that would have made deeper cuts to
the deficit.  “The blame game will be intense between the two parties,”
said  Darrell West , director of governance studies at the
Washington-based  Brookings Institution . “It is not clear who
the political winner will be.”  A New York Times/CBS News  poll  last week found that voters
by a 47-32 margin trusted Obama more than congressional
Republicans to make the right decisions about the nation’s
economy. The poll, taken Aug. 2 and 3, was conducted before the
S&P downgrade.  Lost Rating  Five governments have gotten their AAA ratings back after
losing it, and “it’s taken them between nine and 18 years to do
so,” S&P’s Chambers said. “Usually, when you lose a AAA rating
you don’t get it back right away.”  Nathan Gonzales , political editor of the Washington-based,
nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report, said Democrats will
“blame the  Tea Party  for everything” heading into the 2012
election.  “But if the economy hasn’t turned around by next summer,
President Obama has the most to lose,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 