-- 
Obama May Seek to Reduce Truck Emissions by 20%, ATA Says

-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 
2011-08-08T17:43:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/obama-may-seek-to-reduce-truck-carbon-emissions-by-20-percent-ata-says.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s plan to
improve fuel economy for heavy-duty trucks will probably aim to
cut carbon-dioxide emissions by about 20 percent by 2018, said
Glen Kedzie, vice president at the American Trucking
Associations.  The standard will probably set a 6 percent engine-
efficiency improvement target, said Kedzie, who is also
environmental counsel at the Arlington, Virginia-based industry
group and has been briefed by the Environmental Protection
Agency and the  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration .
The efficiency goals should help trucks improve fuel use to 7 or
7 1/2 miles per gallon by 2018, he said.  “Over the last 20 to 25 years, we’ve been flatlining at 6
1/2 miles per gallon, and that’s not a good way to go,” Kedzie
said in a telephone interview. “This is going to really help
the industry overall. Everyone will move ahead and move on.
We’ll get used to it.”  Obama is scheduled to announce the first U.S. greenhouse-
gas emissions rules for trucks tomorrow in Springfield,
Virginia. The administration said in a preliminary proposal in
November that lower fuel costs would counter the added expense
of new technology. Big rigs may cost $5,901 more, and use
between $9,567 and $9,746 less in  diesel fuel  in the first year,
according to the preliminary rule.  Matt Lehrich, a White House spokesman, didn’t immediately
provide comment.  Industry executives, trade associations and environmental
groups have been briefed by regulators in the weeks leading up
to the announcement.  Friction, Aerodynamics  In addition to engine improvements, truck makers will be
able to use changes such as lighter materials, tires with less
friction, engine-idle reduction and better aerodynamics to reach
the 20 percent goal, Kedzie said.  The standards for heavy-duty trucks, such as long-haul 18-
wheelers and garbage trucks, will follow the administration’s
announcement in July of fuel-economy rules for cars and light
trucks that are to take fleetwide averages to 54.5 miles per
gallon by 2025. For heavy-duty trucks, regulations focus on how
much carbon individual truck parts emit, instead of the mileage
standards used for cars.  The truck rules will rely primarily on technologies already
in use rather than pushing the industry to invent new,
breakthrough equipment, said Don Anair, senior vehicles analyst
with the Union of Concerned Scientists in Berkeley,  California .  “It’s a first round of standards,” Anair said. “There’s
a lot of opportunity left to make bigger gains later.”  Owner-Operators  While the American Trucking Associations and the truck
makers have supported the rules,  the Owner-Operator Independent
Drivers Association  says the new standards will make it harder
for its small-business members to survive.  “The price of new trucks is spiraling out of control,”
said Joe Rajkovacz, regulatory director at the Grain Valley,
Missouri-based group. “You’re going to have a reverse incentive
to keep older equipment a lot longer.”  The regulations will probably include incentives intended
to bring advanced technologies like diesel-electric hybrid
transmission systems made by  Eaton Corp. (ETN) , fuel cells and heat-
waste recovery systems to market more quickly, said Mihai
Dorobantu, Cleveland-based Eaton’s senior manager of vehicle
technologies and innovation.  Truck makers will probably receive 1.5 credits for every
diesel-electric system used, Dorobantu said. Manufacturers can
use the credits for hybrid equipment, which is often more
expensive than traditional systems, instead of making other
improvements. Proponents say this is a way to spur investments
in areas that aren’t yet cost-effective.  Cummins Inc. (CMI) , the Columbus, Indiana-based engine maker that
hopes the truck rules will spur demand for newer, more-efficient
 diesel engines , told regulators too many credits for hand-picked
technologies would distort the market.  The agencies will address that concern by cutting off the
credits after a certain target is reached, said Dorobantu of
Eaton, which has worked with companies like FedEx Corp., United
Parcel Service Inc. and  Navistar International Corp. (NAV)  on hybrid-
truck demonstration projects.  To contact the reporters on this story: Jeff Plungis in
 Washington  at   jplungis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 Bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 