-- 
Obama Skips Congress on No Child Law

-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 
2011-08-08T15:42:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/obama-will-bypass-congress-in-easing-no-child-left-behind-law.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration will bypass Congress to override the nation’s
main public-education law, granting waivers to states if they
agree to his schools agenda.  States can avoid the No Child Left Behind law’s 2014
deadline for achieving 100 percent proficiency on standardized
state reading and math exams if they sign off on yet-unspecified
administration “reforms,” U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan
and White House domestic policy adviser  Melody Barnes  said Aug.
5 in a press briefing.  Saying Congress has failed to take action to fix the nine-
year-old law, the  U.S. Education Department  will offer states
waivers as soon as this school year. Duncan opposes the
legislation’s focus on holding schools accountable only through
testing proficiency, which he has said encourages dumbed-down
standards. About 80 percent of U.S. schools risk being labeled
failing if the law isn’t changed.  “I can’t overemphasize how loud the outcry is for us to do
something now,” Duncan said.  Duncan in June said the administration would grant the
waivers if Congress failed to approve legislation changing it by
the start of this school year -- a deadline the legislature
isn’t likely to meet.  Washington Gridlock  The administration’s waivers “could undermine”
congressional efforts to change No Child Left Behind,  John Kline , the Minnesota Republican who chairs the House education
committee, said in a statement. Kline said he will be monitoring
Duncan’s actions “to ensure they are consistent with the law and
congressional intent.”  Kline’s committee is working on a series of bills to change
the law. They include promoting the growth of  charter schools  --
privately run public schools -- and cutting spending by
eliminating half of the federal education programs under the
current law.  Tom Harkin , the Iowa Democrat and Senate education
committee chairman, said he still hopes the Senate can produce a
“comprehensive bill” reauthorizing No Child Left Behind.  “That said, it is undeniable that this Congress faces real
challenges reaching bipartisan, bicameral agreement on
anything,” Harkin said in a statement.  Duncan’s approach differs from past education department
waivers -- supported by many Republicans as a way to ease
regulatory burdens -- because the agency is attaching conditions
to promote administration policies, said  Jack Jennings ,
president of the Washington-based Center on Education Policy, a
nonpartisan research organization.  Executive Authority  “This is a bold use of executive authority by Duncan,”
Jennings, a former general counsel for the House education
committee, said in a telephone interview. “Duncan is certainly
determined to bring about school reform while he’s in office.”  No Child Left Behind, signed into law in 2002, is former
President  George W. Bush ’s signature education initiative.
Officially called the  Elementary and Secondary Education Act ,
the law requires schools to show that all students are
proficient on state standardized reading and math tests by 2014.
Schools also must demonstrate yearly progress toward that goal
or risk losing federal money.  Though specifics haven’t been set for the waivers, schools
would be released from that deadline and annual progress
requirements if they agree to such changes as raising academic
standards and evaluating teacher effectiveness based on student
achievement and other measures, Duncan said. The department will
make details public in September.  “We can’t afford to do nothing,” Duncan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  