-- 
Obama Says Markets Don’t Doubt U.S. Ability to Pay Its Debts After S&P Cut

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-08-08T20:36:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/obama-says-markets-don-t-doubt-u-s-ability-to-pay-its-debts-after-s-p-cut.html
President  Barack Obama , breaking his
silence on the downgrade of federal debt, said the U.S. “always
will be a AAA country” and that he’ll release new
recommendations to deal with the deficit in the coming weeks.  The main obstacle facing the U.S. is the “lack of
political will in Washington” to shrink the country’s long-term
deficit and foster economic growth, Obama said at the White
House in his first public comments since  Standard & Poor’s 
lowered the  credit rating  on U.S. debt to AA+ from AAA on Aug.
5.  The debt downgrade, which has contributed to the worst
stock market slump since 2008, is “not so much because they
doubt our ability to pay our debt,” but because, after a month
of wrangling, the rating service “doubted our political
system’s ability to act,” Obama said. Gridlock “has not been
constructive,” he said.  “Markets will rise and fall, but this is the  United States
of America ,” Obama said. “No matter what some agency may say,
we’ve always been and always will be a AAA country.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated 6.7 percent to
1,119.51 at 4 p.m. in  New York , and the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  slid 634.76 points, or 5.6 percent, to 10,809.85. Yields
on 10-year notes fell 22 basis points, or 0.22 percentage point,
to 2.34 percent at 3:01 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. Two-year yields fell to a record low.  Fannie and Freddie  Equities extended losses after the ratings cut prompted S&P
to also lower debt rankings on  Fannie Mae ,  Freddie Mac  and other
lenders backed by the government.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said after the
president’s remarks that the administration “could not have
been clearer” about the threat of a downgrade if lawmakers
didn’t produce a sufficient compromise.  Obama renewed his call to renew the temporary cut in
payroll taxes for workers “as soon as possible” and to extend
 unemployment insurance . He also called for changes in the  tax
code  that would involve asking the wealthy to pay more.  The administration has tried to reassure global investors
that money put in U.S. Treasury investments is safe and that the
government’s ability to repay its debt hasn’t changed since the
downgrade.  While Obama’s allies blamed a faction of congressional
Republicans for scuttling a bigger deal on cutting the deficit,
Republicans said the president bore responsibility.  ‘He’s Failing’  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican, said
yesterday on CBS Television’s “Face the Nation” program that
Obama never offered a plan to lead the country out of
unsustainable budget deficits.  “He’s had a chance,” Graham said. “We’re three years
into this. And he’s failing.”  Obama said S&P’s action should give “a renewed sense of
urgency” to the work of a so-called super committee that’s
being set up as part of an agreement to raise the national debt
ceiling that Obama signed on Aug. 2.  Congressional leaders have until Aug. 16 to name the
group’s members -- the two top Republicans and Democrats in the
House and Senate each will name three -- and have already
disagreed about whether revenue increases, and not just spending
cuts, should be on the table in the panel’s discussions.  Budget Cuts  The law cuts $917 billion from spending over the next
decade. The super-committee will try to come up with at least an
additional $1.2 trillion in deficit reduction. If not, a trigger
mechanism would kick in, which would reduce spending equally in
defense and domestic programs.  In downgrading  U.S. debt , S&P said it considered the plan
inadequate. It “falls short of what, in our view, would be
necessary to stabilize the government’s medium-term debt
dynamics,” the company said in a statement on Aug. 5.  The debt plan also drew opposition from lawmakers and
interest groups on both ends of the political spectrum, with
Republicans and their allies arguing that it didn’t do enough to
slash spending and rein in the debt and Democratic-leaning
groups saying it savaged programs for the most vulnerable
without asking the wealthy to pay higher taxes.  “Republicans have demonstrated this problem can be solved
without job-destroying tax hikes,” House Speaker  John Boehner 
said in a statement. The special committee will have to make
“tough choices” to rein entitlement programs, he said.  Obama said he would come up with his own set of proposals
for a deficit deal by the congressional committee and pledged
his administration’s “full cooperation” with the panel.  ‘Very Specific’  Carney said at his briefing today that Obama “will be very
specific in his proposals” for cutting the deficit. He said it
would be based on the work of several public and private
commissions, including the panel on deficit reduction the
administration set up last year, and the framework of the
initial “grand bargain” the president negotiated with Boehner.  S&P’s decision on U.S. debt was at odds with the other two
main ratings services, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings. Both affirmed their AAA grades on U.S. debt on Aug. 2,
when Obama signed an increase in the U.S. debt ceiling and a
plan to trim the nation’s deficit.  The new rating is the second-highest and puts the U.S. on
the same level as  Belgium  and  New Zealand , and above Japan and
 China . Under S&P’s definitions, debt rated AA is barely
different from AAA securities and shows that a borrower’s
ability to “meet its financial commitment on the obligation is
very strong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
mtalev@@bloomberg.net  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 