-- 
Obama Says ‘Modest’ Changes to Entitlements Will Cut Deficit

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-08-09T00:43:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/obama-says-modest-changes-to-entitlements-will-cut-deficit.html
President  Barack Obama  told
supporters tonight that the U.S. can tackle its long-term
deficit with “modest adjustments” to entitlement programs and
tax increases on the wealthy.  On a day when U.S. stocks sank the most since December
2008, Obama said that “markets will go up and down” and it’s
more important for this administration and Congress to focus on
the “underlying challenges” of deficit reduction.  The president made his comments at two Democratic National
Committee events in Washington, his first since Standard &
Poor’s Aug. 5 announcement that it is lowering the credit rating
on  U.S. debt  to AA+ from AAA.  At a fundraiser at the Washington home of developer Donahue Peebles, chief executive officer of privately held Peebles
Corp., Obama said by raising taxes on those who can afford it
and making changes to entitlement programs the deficit could be
contained in two or three decades.  “It’s not rocket science,” the president said to about
140 donors who paid $15,000 per family to attend a fundraising
event. The president criticized congressional Republicans for
being unwilling to compromise on increasing revenue to rein in
the deficit, saying they “just want to cut.”  ‘Self-Inflicted’  At a dinner later in the evening with 60 donors and
potential donors at the St. Regis Hotel in  Washington , Obama
said, “We’ve had a tough couple of weeks in the economy” and
“too much of it was self-inflicted. It had to do with political
paralysis here in Washington.”  Concern about the S&P credit downgrade and the state of the
economy helped push U.S. stocks lower. The  S&P 500 Index  lost
6.7 percent to 1,119.46 at 4 p.m. in  New York , its lowest level
since September, as all 500 stocks fell for the first time since
Bloomberg began tracking the data in 1996. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  plunged 634.76 points as approximately $2.5
trillion was erased from global equities.  “The challenges go beyond the stock market,” Obama told
the standing-room crowd. “Corporate profits have been up. The
credit markets have stabilized but what’s absolutely true even
before these last couple days in the stock market is that
recovery wasn’t happening fast enough.”  House Republican leaders said they will continue to resist
Obama’s calls to increase taxes in order to close the deficit.  “Raising taxes in this economy will only make it harder
for working families and the very small businesses we are
counting on to create jobs and get our economy going,” Majority
Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican, said earlier today.  Obama’s re-election fund will get $5,000 of each donation
with the rest going to the Democratic National Committee,
according to a Democratic Party official who wasn’t authorized
to speak publicly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 