-- 
Hochberg Says Ex-Im Bank Won’t Ease Domestic Content Rules

-- B y   E r i c   S a b o   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-08-08T19:36:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/hochberg-says-ex-im-bank-won-t-ease-domestic-content-requirement.html
 U.S. Export-Import Bank President
Fred Hochberg said the lender won’t ease requirements that 85
percent of any export it finances be made in the U.S., rebuffing
demands from  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Boeing Co. (BA)   The two companies have said in congressional testimony that
the domestic content threshold doesn’t take into account the
nature of modern supply networks.  “We will not relax the requirements,” Hochberg said today
in an interview in Panama City.  The lender, backed by the U.S. government, is playing an
expanded role as President Barack Obama seeks to double exports
by 2015. The bank has backed projects valued at more than $24.5
billion this year, eclipsing a 2010 record, and may seek to
increase financing in South Korea, Colombia and Panama after
Congress passes free-trade agreements, Hochberg said.  Demand for the bank’s support from companies such as GE,
Boeing,  KBR Inc. (KBR)  and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  surged after financial
markets seized up in 2008 and banks tightened borrowing
requirements.  The bank loaned $500 million this year to Panama-based Copa
Airlines, a unit of  Copa Holdings SA (CPA) , for the purchase of Boeing
737 aircraft, Hochberg said today.  The bank is considering loans for infrastructure projects
in Panama, where the government plans to spend more than $10
billion in the next five years to build roads and a subway,
Hochberg said.  Congress must reauthorize the Export-Import Bank before
Sept. 30, when its five-year approval expires. While Hochberg
said he expects Congress to act, the lender can function
temporarily if lawmakers miss the deadline, he said.  “We prefer not to have approval delayed,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Sabo in  Panama  City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  