-- 
Swiss Accounts, Insider Trading, Mortgages: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-08-08T11:24:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/off-shore-accounts-insider-trading-metlife-review-mortgages-compliance.html
A  New Jersey  cancer researcher
admitted to hiding millions of dollars from U.S. tax authorities
in accounts at  UBS AG (UBSN)  and other Swiss banks.  Michael Reiss, 60, of Princeton, pleaded guilty Friday in
Manhattan federal court to failing to file reports of foreign
bank accounts in 2008 and 2009. Reiss, who faces as long as five
years in prison at his sentencing in November, was released on a
$200,000 bond.  Reiss had an account at Zurich-based UBS, the largest Swiss
bank, starting in 2000 and transferred the assets in that
account to another Swiss bank in 2002, prosecutors said in a
statement. In 2003, he opened an account at another Swiss bank
in the name of Floranova, a sham foundation created to hide his
ownership of the assets from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service,
prosecutors said. In 2008, the account held $2.59 million.  He will pay a civil penalty of about $1.2 million, his
attorney, Paula Junghans, said. Reiss also agreed to pay at
least $400,000 in taxes, Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel Levy
said.  Reiss, a Dutch national, isn’t a U.S. citizen. He may face
deportation after he’s sentenced, U.S. Magistrate Judge Henry
Pitman said. Junghans declined to comment on the case after
Friday’s proceeding.  Reiss is a  professor  at the Cancer Institute of New Jersey
at the University of Medicine & Dentistry of New Jersey’s Robert
Wood Johnson Medical School in New Brunswick. He researches
cancers of the head, neck, lung and esophagus, according to the
school’s  website .  “At this time it appears the allegations do not involve
university or state monies,” UMDNJ said in a statement. “We
are doing everything we can to determine that that is in fact
the case.”  Prosecutors said Reiss used the services of Beda
Singenberger, a Swiss financial adviser who was charged last
month with conspiring with more than 60 U.S. taxpayers to hide
more than $184 million in offshore accounts.  The Floranova account held assets valued at about $2.6
million as of March 2008, prosecutors said. In November 2008,
Reiss transferred the Floranova assets into another undeclared
account, prosecutors said.  UBS in 2009 paid $780 million to avoid prosecution on
charges that it helped Americans evade taxes and turned over
data on 250 secret accounts. It later handed over information on
4,450 more accounts.  The case is U.S. v. Reiss, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Compliance Action  Ex-Mariner Energy Director Admits Giving Merger Tip to Son  A former  Mariner Energy Inc. (ME)  director pleaded guilty to
passing inside information about the company’s planned
acquisition by  Apache Corp. (APA)  to his son.  H. Clayton Peterson, 65, of Denver, a retired former Arthur
Andersen partner who also serves on the boards of Re/Max
International Inc. and Lone Pine Resources Inc., pleaded guilty
to conspiracy and securities fraud on Friday in Manhattan
federal court. His son, Drew, 35, a financial adviser from
Denver, also pleaded guilty on Friday to the same charges.  Clayton Peterson, who was appointed to Mariner’s board in
March 2006, said he passed information about the planned
transaction in April 2010 to his son. Drew Peterson said he
bought shares of Mariner stock based on the tip and passed on
the information to another unidentified person who also traded
on it.  “I knew that my actions were wrong and I deeply regret my
conduct,” Clayton Peterson told U.S. District Judge Robert
Patterson. “It has ruined my life and my son’s life and I
apologize.”  Apache, the largest U.S. independent oil and natural-gas
producer by market value, on April 15, 2010, announced that it
had agreed to buy Houston-based Mariner Energy for in a deal
valued at the time at $2.7 billion in cash and stock to boost
production and reserves in deep waters off the  Gulf of Mexico .
The purchase was completed on Nov. 10.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on Friday sued
both Petersons in federal court in Manhattan, claiming that Drew
Peterson, his relatives, friends and clients made more than $5.2
million from trading on the information. Of that amount, $5
million was made by the portfolio manager of an unidentified
Denver hedge fund.  Both Petersons face as much as 20 years in prison for
securities fraud and five years for conspiracy and were ordered
released on $500,000 personal recognizance bonds.  “Clayton Peterson has accepted responsibility for his
conduct in this matter, which was an aberration from his
otherwise long and distinguished career,” Clayton Peterson’s
attorney, Steven Glaser, said in a statement. “Mr. Peterson
looks forward to putting this chapter of his life behind him.”  MetLife Says 30 Jurisdictions Are Auditing Unpaid Benefits  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, said more than
30 U.S. jurisdictions are auditing its practices in a review of
whether the industry is holding unclaimed funds owed to
policyholders, beneficiaries or states.  The audits may lead to more payments to beneficiaries,
administrative penalties or changes in procedures, New York-
based MetLife said Friday in its quarterly filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  “The company is not currently able to estimate the
reasonably possible amount of any such additional payments or
the reasonably possible cost of any such changes in procedures,
but it is possible that such costs may be substantial,” MetLife
said.  State regulators are intensifying a probe into unpaid
benefits after Florida Insurance Commissioner Kevin McCarty said
in May that insurers may be keeping at least $1 billion in
unclaimed funds. MetLife and No. 2 Prudential Financial Inc. are
among nine firms subpoenaed in June as part of New York Attorney
General Eric Schneiderman’s probe, a person familiar with the
matter has said.  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the insurer majority
owned by the U.S. Treasury Department, added $100 million to
reserves for death claims at its life insurance unit in the
second quarter, according to a regulatory filing Aug. 4. The
company has changed its claims process to use information,
including data from the Social Security Administration, to
determine when insured people die.  “Our practices in that area are currently, and have been,
completely consistent with all the applicable legal requirements
and all of the historical industry standards,” Jay Wintrob,
chief executive officer of the SunAmerica life unit, said Friday
on a call with analysts.  AIG has received regulators’ inquiries into claims
settlement practices, the New York-based company said in the
filing.  BofA’s ReconTrust Sued Over  Washington  Foreclosure Actions  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s ReconTrust unit failed to conduct
foreclosures as a neutral third party as required by law,
Washington state Attorney General Rob McKenna said in a lawsuit.  ReconTrust, which acted as a trustee handling foreclosures,
had a duty to act in good faith to borrowers as well as lenders,
McKenna said Friday at a press conference announcing the suit.
ReconTrust also concealed or misrepresented the actual owner of
the debt when handling foreclosures, according to the complaint
filed in state court in Seattle.  The lawsuit follows an investigation of Washington
trustees’ foreclosure practices, including faulty documentation.
McKenna said the lawsuit was filed because ReconTrust didn’t
take corrective actions to change its ways.  “They have left us with no choice,” McKenna said.  “We
will have the full attention of ReconTrust and its owner, Bank
of America, and they will be more interested in sitting down and
making things right.”  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, didn’t immediately return a call
for comment on the lawsuit.  The state is seeking civil penalties of $2,000 a violation
and the complaint alleges thousands of violations, McKenna said.
The lawsuit also is seeking restitution for homeowners who
unfairly lost their properties.  The case is Washington v. ReconTrust Co., 11-26867-5,
Superior Court, King County, Washington (Seattle).  WaMu Bank Failure Won’t Result in Criminal Charges, U.S. Says  Washington Mutual Bank’s failure, the biggest in U.S.
history, won’t result in criminal charges against its former
executives, U.S. Attorney Jenny A. Durkan in Seattle said.  A federal investigation of the bank’s collapse included
hundreds of interviews and a review of millions of documents
concerning its operations, Durkan and the Justice Department
said Aug. 5 in an e-mailed statement.  “The evidence does not meet the exacting standards for
criminal charges in connection with the bank’s failure,”
according to the statement.  The bank, the operating unit of  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) , was
seized by regulators on Sept. 25, 2008, and sold to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  for $1.9 billion. The bank had more than 2,200
branches and $188 billion in deposits. The following day, the
parent company filed for bankruptcy.  Former U.S. Attorney Jeffrey Sullivan in Seattle, citing
“intense public interest” in the bank’s failure, said in
October 2008 that his office had created a task force working
with investigators from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the Internal Revenue Service to investigate its
collapse.  Andrew C. Irgens, a lawyer representing Washington Mutual
Inc. in its bankruptcy case, didn’t immediately return a call
and e-mail seeking comment after regular business hours.  Federal prosecutors continue to cooperate with the FDIC in
a lawsuit against three former Washington Mutual executives,
according to the statement.  In its bankruptcy case in Wilmington, Delaware, WaMu is
seeking approval for a reorganization plan that would pay
creditors more than $7 billion. Shareholders have asked U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath to reject the reorganization plan
for a second time because they would get nothing.  The FDIC case is FDIC v. Killinger, 11-00459, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Washington (Seattle). The bankruptcy
case is In re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-12229, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Swatch Among Watchmakers Probed by EU Regulators Over Parts  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the world’s biggest watchmaker, is among
timepiece manufacturers being probed by European Union antitrust
regulators over allegations they refused to supply spare parts
to independent watch menders.  The European Commission said on Friday it will investigate
a 2004 complaint by the  European Confederation of Watch & Clock
Repairers’ Associations , or CEAHR, after an EU court  ruled  that
regulators were wrong to dismiss the group’s objections.  The probe “concerns almost the entire watch industry,”
Swatch said in a statement. “We are confident regarding the
outcome of this investigation.”  The start of EU formal antitrust proceedings “means that
the commission will investigate the case as a matter of
priority,” regulators said in an e-mailed statement. Companies
risk fines of as much as 10 percent of global yearly revenue if
they are found guilty of violating EU competition rules.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the maker of Cartier watches,
supported EU regulators in the court case defending their prior
decision not to begin an investigation. Alan Grieve, a spokesman
for Richemont, declined to comment.  Olivier Labesse, a spokesman for LVMH, and Virginie
Chevailler, a spokeswoman for Rolex, declined to comment on the
probe. A spokesman for Patek Philippe wasn’t immediately
available. CEAHR didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  Lear Corp. (LEA)  Says EU Asked for Information in Antitrust Probe  Lear Corp. said European Union antitrust regulators asked
it for information as part of a probe into possible collusion
between suppliers of electric and electronic car parts.  Terrence Larkin, the company’s general counsel, said it
received a “supplemental request for information” and the
company was cooperating with authorities. EU officials visited
the company’s Paris offices in February 2010, he said on a
conference call Aug. 4.  Southfield, Michigan-based Lear isn’t involved in similar
investigations in the U.S. or  Japan , he said.  Compliance Policy  IRS Won’t Impose Retroactive Ticket Tax on Airlines, Fliers  The Internal Revenue Service won’t collect retroactive
taxes for airline tickets purchased during a lapse in the
government’s taxing authority, agency spokesman Frank Keith
said.  President Barack Obama signed legislation Friday that ends
a partial shutdown of the Federal Aviation Administration and
reinstates the taxes retroactively to July 23, the day after
they expired. Most airlines had raised fares by the amount of
the taxes, but were not authorized to collect the taxes. Getting
the money now would be tough, Keith said.  The levies, including a 7.5 percent fare tax on domestic
flights, generate about $28.6 million a day for the U.S.
government. The IRS decision means that the airlines will be
able to keep the revenue they generated by raising fares.  The airlines, including  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) ,  Delta Air
Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , must begin collecting the
taxes today, Keith said in a statement.  Because the law makes the taxes retroactive to July 23, no
taxpayers who flew during the shutdown and purchased their
airline tickets before that will be owed refunds, Keith said.
Before Congress broke an impasse over extending the taxes, the
IRS asked airlines to refund the tax payments to fliers.  The four top tax legislators in Congress had written to the
IRS, asking the agency not to retroactively collect the taxes.  The FAA’s authority to levy the 7.5 percent tax, as well as
other aviation taxes, lapsed on July 22. Had Congress not acted,
the total forgone taxes would have reached $1.3 billion by Sept.
7, when Congress is scheduled to return from its summer recess.  The Senate voted Friday to end the shutdown and reinstate
the FAA’s taxing authority through Sept. 16. That action
followed the House’s July 20 passage of the bill, which
reinstates the taxes as of July 23. Enactment of the legislation
was delayed because of disagreements between the House and
Senate over issues unrelated to the taxes.  Courts  Wells Fargo Agrees to Settle Wachovia Case for $590 Million  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S. home lender, said it
reached a $590 million settlement in principle with plaintiffs
who claimed in a lawsuit that Wachovia Corp. misled investors.  The accord, subject to court approval, is reflected in the
bank’s financial statements and “will not have a material
adverse effect on Wells Fargo’s consolidated financial
position,” according to a regulatory filing Friday by the San
Francisco-based company. Wells Fargo acquired Wachovia in 2008.  Investors had accused Wachovia of making misleading
disclosures relating to the sale of securities between 2006 and
2008, according to the complaint. The statements related to the
quality of assets linked to the mortgage portfolio of Golden
West Financial, a California home lender it had acquired.  “Wells Fargo agreed to this settlement in order to avoid
the distraction, risk and expense of on-going litigation,” Mary
Eshet, a spokeswoman for the bank, said in an e-mailed
statement. “The settlement agreement does not constitute an
admission of Wells Fargo of liability or any violation of law by
Wachovia.”  Accounting firm KPMG LLP, which did auditing work for
Wachovia and was also listed as a defendant, reached a $37
million settlement, according to a statement released Friday
from law firms representing the plaintiffs. “We’ve agreed to
settle to avoid the cost of litigation and to put this matter
behind us,” George Ledwith, a KPMG spokesman, said in a phone
interview.  “We believe that these settlements reflect an outstanding
result for bond and preferred-security purchasers who were
damaged as a result of false and misleading offering
materials,” the attorneys representing investors wrote in their
joint statement.  Wells Fargo purchased Wachovia for $12.7 billion in 2008,
after surging mortgage defaults brought the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based lender to the verge of collapse. Wells Fargo
picked up $117.3 billion in Pick-a-Pay loans as part of the
deal. More than half of those were found to be credit-impaired,
according to the complaint.  The plaintiffs include the Southeastern Pennsylvania
Transportation Authority, which manages public transport in
Philadelphia and surrounding counties, the Orange County
Employees Retirement System in California and the Louisiana
Sheriffs’ Pension and Relief Fund, a pension plan for sheriffs
and their families in Louisiana.  Amaranth Suit Against JPMorgan Chase Dismissed by Judge  Amaranth Advisors LLC, the commodities fund that collapsed
in 2006, can’t proceed with a lawsuit claiming JPMorgan Chase &
Co. executives helped cause its demise by sabotaging a bailout
by Citadel Investment Group LLC, a judge ruled.  The hedge fund, which lost $2 billion in September 2006 on
natural gas futures and derivatives bets that went awry, can’t
press its claim that JPMorgan officials interfered with its
Citadel deal by casting aspersions on Amaranth’s financial
condition, New York Supreme Court Judge O. Peter Sherwood
concluded.  Amaranth officials can’t prove two JPMorgan executives’
statements were the reason Citadel officials decided to cancel
the bailout effort, Sherwood said in a nine-page ruling Friday.  “We disagree with the court’s conclusion and plan to
appeal,” J.B. Heaton, a Chicago-based lawyer for Amaranth, said
in a telephone interview. Jennifer Zuccarelli, a JPMorgan
spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return a call for comment on
Sherwood’s ruling.  Amaranth officials alleged in the 2007 suit that JPMorgan
sought to force it into default on a margin call to obtain
collateral Amaranth had posted with the bank. Amaranth tried to
stave off its collapse by unloading its bets to other hedge
funds, including Citadel and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , according
to court filings.  Fund officials allege Steve Black and Bill Winters, two
JPMorgan officials warned Citadel offices that “Amaranth is not
as solvent as they are telling you they are,” according to
Sherwood’s decision.  Amaranth executives alleged those statements amounted to
interference with an oral agreement the fund’s officials reached
with Citadel, court filings show.  An appeals court threw out the rest of Amaranth’s claims in
the suit in 2009. The court sent the case back to Sherwood to
consider the so-called “tortuous interference claim.”  Citadel “conducted its own research in connection with the
proposed transaction with the fund and evidence of the
tenuousness of the fund’s financial condition was readily
available,” the judge said in Friday’s ruling.  The case is Amaranth LLC v. JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
603756/2007, New York state Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  Two Telecommunications Execs Convicted by Miami Jury, DOJ Says  Joel Esquenazi and Carlos Rodriguez, former executives of
Terra Telecommunications Corp., have been convicted by a federal
jury on all counts for their roles in a plan to pay bribes to
Haitian government officials at Telecommunications D’Haiti
S.A.M, the U.S. Justice Department said in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 