-- 
England’s Game Against Netherlands Among Soccer Matches Canceled by Riots

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-08-09T18:15:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/london-soccer-club-west-ham-postpones-carling-cup-match-on-police-request.html
England’s soccer exhibition match
against the Netherlands tomorrow night in  London  was canceled
following three days of rioting in the U.K. capital.  The Dutch team, last year’s  World Cup  finalists against
 Spain , had been checking in for their flight to London at
Schiphol Airport in Amsterdam today when players were told of
the cancellation.  “The suitcases of the supporters, the Dutch team and media
were about to be put on the belt when we were told to wait and
then heard the match had been canceled,” Lloyd Vandenberg,
chairman of the Dutch soccer supporters club, said in an
interview from Amsterdam. “This is really disappointing.”  Vandenberg estimated about 1,500 Dutch fans would have
travelled to Wembley Stadium in north London to watch their team
play. Some 300 Dutch fans had already travelled to the British
capital, he added.  A exhibition game between Ghana and  Nigeria , scheduled for
Vicarage Road in Watford tonight, was canceled on the advice of
the local police, Watford soccer club said today.  The English leagues said they’ll make a decision in two
days on whether this weekend’s games in London will take place
as scheduled. Matches outside the capital are not likely to be
affected, the Premier League and Football League said today.  Carling Cup Games  Carling Cup games at West Ham, Charlton, and Crystal Palace
tonight have been called off at the request of police, the clubs
said on their websites. Bristol City said its home game tonight
against Swindon has also been postponed after the violence
spread to southwest  England .  David Bernstein, chairman of the Football Association, said
the decision to call off the England match -- made after talking
with the Metropolitan Police, British government and Brent
Council in northwest London -- was based on safety.  “It’s terribly sad a major sport event of this sort has to
be canceled in this way, but we have to put safety and security
matters first,” Bernstein said at a press conference. “We’ve
done the only thing we could do. There’s no choice in the
situation.”  Bernstein said he hoped the match could be rescheduled for
next year. Adrian Bevington, managing director of Club England,
said the English players were disappointed but agreed with the
decision to cancel.  “We’ve all seen the pictures on the television and the
most important thing at this time is the safety of fans and
general public,” the players said in a statement read by
Bevington.  ‘Totally Crazy’  The Dutch fans said the scenes broadcast around the world
from London show a city that’s “gone totally crazy.”  “I just can’t believe the TV footage of people walking out
of shops with TVs held under their arms,” Vandenberg said.
“It’s not exactly a nice picture that’s being painted here for
the outside world.”  West Ham had been scheduled to host Aldershot at Upton Park
in east London, while Charlton was to play Reading in the city’s
southeast and Palace slated to face Crawley Town at Selhurst
Park.  West Ham  said  that its game was called off “because of the
need to focus police resources elsewhere.”  “The police have told us they believe the match should be
postponed on safety grounds and obviously we’ve taken that
advice,” Charlton Chief Executive Officer Stephen Kavanagh said
in a statement on his club’s  website  last night.  Police Shooting  Rioting began in the north London area of Tottenham on the
night of Aug. 6 after Mark Duggan, a local man of Afro-Caribbean
descent, was shot to death by police. It continued for a third
night in London as petrol bombs were thrown.  A statement from the  Metropolitan Police Service  reported
“serious outbreaks of disorder” including looting, in a number
of London boroughs, including Hackney, Newham, Lewisham, Bethnal
Green and Croydon. In addition to Bristol, violence has also
spread to Birmingham and Nottingham in the Midlands and
Liverpool in the northwest.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  returned today from his
vacation in  Italy  and recalled Parliament from its summer
holiday. London Mayor  Boris Johnson  is also flying back today
from a vacation in  North America .  While West Ham and Charlton called off their games late
yesterday, Crystal Palace and Bristol City announced the
postponement of their matches on their  website s this morning
after meeting with police.  ‘Disappointing’  “It’s disappointing but we totally understand the reasons
given by the police,” Bristol City Chairman Colin Sexstone said
in his club’s  statement . “Clearly the most important factor is
people’s safety and these are exceptional circumstances the
police are dealing with.”  Premier League club Tottenham Hotspur said it’s in talks
with authorities about the Aug. 13 season opener against Everton
at White Hart Lane.  “At this stage the game is going ahead,” Spurs said in a
 statement  on their website. “The club is doing everything it
can to ensure that this remains the position.”  Middlesex County Cricket Club said its matches the next two
days at Lord’s in northwest London have also been slightly
affected. Tomorrow’s game against Yorkshire was moved up to a
noon start from 3:40 p.m., while the next day’s game against
Northamptonshire will start an hour earlier at 11 a.m.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  