-- 
Hong Kong Land Auction Result May Be Dampened by Global Stock Market Rout

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-08-08T08:12:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/hong-kong-land-auction-result-may-be-dampened-by-global-stock-market-rout.html
Hong Kong ’s government, which is
boosting housing supply to ease soaring  home prices , may sell a
site at auction tomorrow at the lower end of forecasts after the
city’s stock market had its biggest two-day drop since 2009.  The land in the Sha Tin district may fetch HK$8.25 billion
($1.1 billion), according to the median estimate of five
surveyors polled by Bloomberg News whose forecasts ranged from
HK$7.24 billion to HK$9.27 billion. Transactions of used
apartments at the 10 biggest private projects in Hong Kong fell
over the weekend from a week earlier as buyers were deterred by
concerns the U.S.’s loss of its top  credit rating  will extend
equity declines, according to Midland Holdings Ltd.  The government has already  sold  14 parcels through auctions
or tenders during this fiscal year, which began in April,
compared with 17 sites in the previous financial year, according
to the Lands Department website. Hong Kong home prices have
surged more than 70 percent since the beginning of 2009,
according to Centaline Property Agency Ltd.  “Developers will be much more careful as there are more
uncertainties in the future direction of home prices,” said
Alnwick Chan, Hong Kong-based executive director at Knight Frank
LLP. “There’ll be impact on the auction, that’s for sure.”  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  fell 2.2 percent at the 4 p.m.
local time close, taking its two-day decline to 6.4 percent, the
biggest such slide since November 2009.  Transactions Fall  The threat of more government curbs, coupled with rising
mortgage rates, drove the number of home transactions in the
city to a 30-month low in July.  Transactions of used apartments at the 10 biggest private
projects fell to 24 over the weekend from 31 a week ago,
according to Midland, the biggest publicly traded real estate
agent in the city. Home prices may drop 5 percent to 7 percent
before transactions pick up as buyers are deterred by a collapse
of global investor confidence after the U.S. sovereign-rating
downgrade and  Europe ’s debt problems, Buggle Lau, chief analyst
at Midland, said in an e-mailed press release yesterday.  At least 970 homes will have to be built on the site, with
a total buildable area of 1.03 million square feet, according to
the  sales document . The government set the minimum apartment
requirement in June when it put up the Sha Tin site and two
others for auction.  ‘Reasonable Profit’  The site that will be auctioned is located on Kau To Shan
hill, a luxury residential area in the east of the New
Territories that’s within walking distance to the  Chinese
University of Hong Kong  and is close to the Sha Tin Race Course.  At HK$7.24 billion, the average cost would be equivalent to
about HK$7,000 a square foot, said Ringo Lam, a director in the
valuation department at AG Wilkinson & Associates in Hong Kong,
whose estimate is at the low end of the range. Developers would
have to sell the homes at about HK$11,500 a square foot to make
“a reasonable profit,” Lam said. Prices for new apartments
nearby are selling for around HK$10,000 a square foot, he said.  Even at the lowest end of the estimates, the price for the
site would still set a record for the New Territories, the area
connecting the rest of Hong Kong to the border with the Chinese
city of Shenzhen. Henderson Land Development Co. holds the
current record with HK$5.6 billion paid for a site in the Tai Po
area in 1997.  ‘Tricky Situation’  The government on June 10 introduced three sites with
minimum unit requirement to be auctioned to developers. Other
than the Sha Tin property, the other sites are in Tseung Kwan O
and  Yuen Long . It also raised down-payment requirements for some
home purchases and foreign buyers the same day, the fourth set
of restrictions imposed since October 2009 to curb residential
prices that have surged over 70 percent in the last 30 months.  “It’s a very tricky situation at the moment,” said Simon Lo, executive director for research and advisory at Colliers
International. “Homebuyers are hesitating as they try to figure
out where the market’s going and what more the government will
do to curb the market. On the other hand, you have a land sale
market that is very active.”  Hong Kong is the world’s most expensive place to buy a home,
55 percent pricier than  London , Savills Plc said in January.  The government may auction as many as 52 plots of land this
year, Financial Secretary John Tsang said in his Feb. 23 budget
speech. The land could yield 16,000 units, almost 80 percent
more than from sites sold last year.  Hong Kong’s mortgage rates have been rising at an
accelerated pace since March following decisions by  HSBC
Holdings Plc (5) , the city’s biggest bank by number of customers,
and rivals to raise them again in July.  The number of housing transactions plunged 60 percent in
July from a year earlier, the seventh straight month of declines,
according to Land Registry data. The value of those transactions
dropped 39 percent, the lowest since April 2009.  “It’s possible developers may get less aggressive when
sentiment is turning worse,” said AG Wilkinson’s Lam. “Having
said that, they can change their minds as easily in the hours
before the auction if some positive news hit the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  