-- 
Moody’s Top U.S. Rating Rebuts S&P

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-08-08T22:03:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/moody-s-affirms-u-s-s-aaa-rating-cites-dollar-s-role-as-reserve-currency.html
Moody’s Investors Service affirmed
the U.S.’s top rating for the second time in a week, rebutting
 Standard & Poor’s  after it stripped the world’s largest economy
of its top credit status.  The U.S. today retained its Aaa ranking with a negative
outlook in part because the dollar’s status as the main reserve
currency allows it to support higher debt levels than other
countries, Moody’s said today in a report. Lawmakers last week
took a “positive step” toward addressing the nation’s record
deficits,  Steven Hess , the senior credit officer at Moody’s in
 New York , said in a telephone interview.  “What we’ve said over the last few months is that we now
see at least both parties having the same goal of deficit and
debt reduction over the long term, even though more needs to be
done,” Hess said. “More important to us than how contentious
the process is, does it produce results? What we’re looking at
is actual policies as opposed to the political debate.”  The dollar, the most widely held currency in central
banks’ global foreign exchange reserves, helps support the
U.S.’s top credit ranking, as does its economy with
“unparalleled size and diversity” and a government that’s
characterized by “political and institutional stability,”
Moody’s said in the report.  Buffett’s View  The U.S. on Aug. 5 lost its AAA ranking by S&P for the
first time ever. The rating firm cited the political failure to
reduce record deficits and weakening “effectiveness, stability
and predictability of American policymaking and political
institutions.” Billionaire  Warren Buffett , the world’s most
successful investor, said S&P erred and the U.S. should be rated
“quadruple-A.”  Lawmakers agreed on Aug. 2 to raise the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt ceiling and put in place a plan to enforce $2.4
trillion in spending reductions over the next 10 years, less
than the $4 trillion S&P had said it preferred.  “We don’t anticipate a scenario at the moment in which the
U.S. would quickly return” to AAA, S&P analyst David Beers said
in a conference call today. “Given the nature of the debate
currently in the country, the polarization of views around
fiscal policy right now, we don’t see anything immediately on
the horizon that would make this the most likely scenario.”  Reserve Role  Moody’s has rated the U.S. Aaa since 1917 and said in a
report today that the dollar’s role as the main  reserve
currency , “unique to the U.S., provides unmatched access to
financing, meaning that the U.S. government can support higher
debt levels than other governments.”  Both rating firms say the dollar will probably retain its
role as the leading global currency.  “The country’s at an important inflection point as far as
how we address the fiscal issues and growth for the future,”
said Kathleen Gaffney, a  money manager  at Boston-based Loomis
Sayles & Co., which oversees $162 billion. “In some sense, I’m
an optimist that the U.S. will eventually get it right. This is
potentially a catalyst for  Washington .”  The dollar rose today against a majority of its most-traded
counterparts as investors sought the refuge of  U.S. government
debt  even after the rating downgrade as global stocks fell and
U.S. stocks sank the most since December 2008. Yields on
Treasury two-year notes reached a record low.  Debt Steps  “Getting there was difficult, but we shouldn’t miss the
fact that they did take an action that was moving in the right
direction,” Moody’s Hess said of the government compromise last
week. “We’re not just looking at the politics. There’s lots of
other things that go on here.”  To keep its Aaa ranking, the U.S. needs to take steps to
rein in the debt-to-gross domestic product ratio to “not far
above” 75 percent by about 2015, which is the ratio that’s
forecast for 2012, Moody’s said in the report. A rating cut may
be triggered before 2013 by weakening “fiscal discipline” or a
worsening economic outlook that causes “adverse fiscal
implications.”  The U.S. public debt to gross-domestic-product ratio of
69.8 percent this year will climb to 73.9 percent in 2012,
according to Bloomberg Government data.  “Another factor that we are going to be watching is the
performance of the economy,” Hess said. Negative outlook means
there’s some possibility that the U.S. rating could go down
anytime during the next two years, he said.  On Aug. 3 Moody’s said the outlook for the U.S. grade is
now negative, after President  Barack Obama  signed into law a
plan to lift the nation’s borrowing limit and cut spending
following months of wrangling between Democratic leaders and
Republican lawmakers.  President Barack Obama’s renewed sense of urgency on the
nation’s debt is “encouraging,” Deven Sharma, president of
S&P, said in an interview on CNBC television today. Obama,
breaking his silence on the downgrade of federal debt, said
today that the U.S. “always will be a AAA country” and that he
will release a new proposal to deal with the federal deficit in
the coming weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  