-- 
Persian Gulf Bonds Attract Investors Amid Flight From Europe: Arab Credit

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-08-09T07:45:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/persian-gulf-bonds-attract-investors-amid-flight-from-europe-arab-credit.html
Qatar, the world’s fastest growing
economy, and  Abu Dhabi  are luring bond investors keen to cut
their investment in markets closer to Europe’s debt crisis.  The average yield on Persian Gulf bonds fell three basis
points, or 0.003 of a percentage point, this month to 4.719
percent yesterday, 12 basis points off the lowest ever level
reached on Aug. 2, the HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai GCC Conventional US
Dollar Bond Index shows.  Yields on Qatar’s sovereign dollar-denominated bonds
touched record-lows last week. Sovereign bond yields of Hungary,
a European Union member, had their biggest weekly jump since
April and Polish debt yields also rose, according to data
compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “I have started in the last three weeks to reduce my
exposure to Eastern European countries” and buy into
“fundamentally strong countries with solid public finances,”
Sergey Dergachev, who oversees $8.5 billion in emerging-market
debt at Union Investment Privatfonds in  Frankfurt , said by e-
mail yesterday. Dergachev said he has been buying Qatar and Abu
Dhabi bonds.  The  European Central Bank  bought debt of Spain and  Italy 
yesterday in their latest bid to ease the area’s debt crisis and
prevent financial contagion.  Standard & Poor’s  downgrading of
the U.S. by one level from its AAA credit rating also spurred
concern among investors about the health of developed economies.
The average yield on European sovereign debt rose the most since
June on Aug. 5.  Divergent Yields  The yield on Qatar’s 6.55 percent sovereign bonds due in
2019 dropped three basis points, or 0.03 of a percentage point,
last week and touched 3.529 percent on Aug. 4, the lowest since
the debt was issued in April 2009. The yield rose six basis
points yesterday to 3.647 percent.  The yield on Hungarian bonds jumped 30 basis points, the
biggest weekly jump since the five days ended April 29, and
Polish debt yields climbed 11 basis points, according to data
compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co. The yield on government bonds
of  Russia , which counts Europe as its biggest trading partner,
rose 14 basis points over the past two days.  Propelled by natural gas exports, the Qatari economy may
expand 20 percent this year after growing 16 percent in 2010,
the  International Monetary Fund  said in April. Abu Dhabi, the
capital of the  United Arab Emirates , holds 7 percent of the
world’s proven oil reserves. Crude, while down 14 percent in
August on concern a global recession will slash energy demand,
will rebound by the end of the year, according to analysts.  Daniel Broby, the London-based chief investment officer at
the Silk Invest Ltd, said his firm hasn’t sold any of its  Middle
East  debt holding. Silk Invest has cash that it “will soon put
to work,” he said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday. The global turmoil “makes our markets look more
interesting because in aggregate, the GCC and frontier markets
in general have greater reserves than outstanding debt.”  ‘Safe Haven Papers’  The extra yield demanded by investors to hold European
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries surged 54 basis points this
month to 319, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co’s EMBI Global
Index. Middle Eastern debt spreads on average climbed 51 basis
points to 402, the data show.  Bonds from the region and North Africa are attracting
capital from advanced countries, said Rawad Hakme, the Dubai-
based co-manager of fixed income at the U.A.E. unit of EFG-
Hermes Holding SAE, the biggest publicly-traded Arab investment
bank.  “Investors will continue to overweight emerging markets in
general, and the Middle East and North Africa in particular,
given the weaker fiscal positions in developed markets,” Hakme
said by e-mail yesterday. “The safe haven papers are in Abu
Dhabi and Qatar.”  The yield on Qatar’s 5.25 percent dollar notes maturing in
January 2020 touched a record low last week at 3.686 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield rose two
basis points yesterday to 3.808 percent. The yield on Abu
Dhabi’s 6.75 percent bonds maturing in April 2019 gained 13
basis points yesterday to 3.72 percent, after hitting an all-
time low of 3.655 percent on Aug. 4, the data show.  Oil Spike  The rally may only be sustained should oil prices rebound,
said Anthony Simond, who helps manage $7 billion in emerging-
market debt, including Qatari sovereign bonds, at Aberdeen Asset
Management in  London .  “The price of oil makes a lot of difference, so if we see
another spike there, that’s obviously good news for the likes of
Qatar and Abu Dhabi, and they could see further inflows,” he
said.  The oil price needed for Persian Gulf countries to fund
budget expenditure has more than doubled since 2006 to $77 a
barrel, according to Deutsche Bank AG. The increase has been
driven by rising public spending aimed at deterring the pro-
democracy uprisings that swept parts of the Middle East this
year, leading to the ouster of the presidents of Tunisia and
 Egypt .  Crude Recovery  Oil tumbled as much as 7.7 percent yesterday to $80.17 a
barrel, the lowest intraday level since November. Prices plunged
9 percent last week.  Analysts are predicting a recovery, with prices in  New York 
rising to $100 a barrel in the fourth quarter, according to the
median of 32 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit default swaps insuring Qatari government debt
against default for five years climbed one basis point yesterday
to 97, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Abu Dhabi default swaps advanced one basis point yesterday
to 96. Default swaps for Poland jumped 43 basis points last week
to 210, and gained six basis points yesterday to 216, the
highest level since 2009, CMA data show. Hungarian contracts
have surged 102 basis points since Aug. 1, to 412 yesterday.  “Eastern  Europe  suffers most from euro zone jitters,
whereas the GCC is both macroeconomically solid and its bonds
have strong local sponsorship,” Union Investment’s Dergachev
said, referring to the Gulf Cooperation Council. “I have not
sold any bonds out of the GCC and I have purchased in  Asia  and
the GCC both conventional bonds and sukuk,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  