-- 
Petrobras Stock on Loan Climbs; Shares Slide on Crude

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-08-09T15:39:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/petrobras-short-selling-triples-stock-plunges-on-crude-decline.html
(Corrects story published Aug. 8 to include operations
other than short-selling in headline and throughout.)  Borrowed stock in Brazilian state-
controlled oil producer  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  rose, indicating
that investors may be seeking to profit from falling crude
prices. The stock plunged 7.6 percent today, the most since
December 2008.  Investors had borrowed 178.8 million shares as of Aug. 5,
or 3.2 percent of the total outstanding, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and  Brazil ’s clearing and depository
corporation, known as CBLC. That’s the highest level since
Bloomberg began tracking the data in October last year.
Investors in Brazil borrow stock to use for short-selling,
hedging and tax purposes. In a short sale, traders bet on
declines by selling a borrowed security in hopes of buying it
back later at a lower price.  “Oil and the whole group of commodities is suffering from
the economic scenario,” said Lucas Brendler, who helps oversee
6.3 billion reais ($3.9 billion) including Petrobras shares at
Geracao Futuro Corretora de Valores SA in  Porto Alegre , Brazil.
Investors “are trying to get a little bit out of it and going
short with some very liquid companies.”  Petrobras plunged to 18.65 reais, the lowest since December
2008, at 4:15 p.m. New York time. The stock has lost 21 percent
in the past week, compared with a 17 percent decline for the
benchmark Bovespa index, which tumbled 8.1 percent today. Oil
fell to the lowest price in more than eight months as investors
fled commodities for assets such as Treasury bills and gold
after  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. credit rating for
the first time.  Stock on loan also increased on OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA, the oil company controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista . Investors borrowed 53.3 million shares at the end of
the last week, 1.6 percent of the total, up 54 percent from 34.7
million, or 1.1 percent, a month earlier, the data show.  OGX retreated 16 percent to 9.20 reais today, the most
since April. The stock is trading at the lowest price since May
2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  