-- 
Petrobras Says Crisis May Reduce Appetite for Company Stakes

-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-08-08T19:07:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/petrobras-says-crisis-may-reduce-appetite-for-company-stakes.html
The global economic crisis and plunge
in stock markets may reduce demand for assets state-controlled
oil producer  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  is seeking to sell as part
of a divestment program, its chief executive officer said.  Petrobras, as the Rio de Janeiro-based company is known,
has stakes in more than 100 companies, CEO Jose Sergio Gabrielli
said today in Sao Paulo. He declined to say which stakes it may
sell as part of a plan to raise $13.6 billion through asset
sales and costs, to help fund a $224.7 billion in spending.  The company aims to complete the sale of some stakes in oil
exploration tracts in 2 to 2 1/2 years, he said. The crisis
won’t alter the company’s five-year investment plan that also
calls for as much as $91 billion in debt sales, Gabrielli said.
Petrobras is investing more than any other company in an effort
to more than double oil production and proven reserves by 2020.  “It is still a bit early to assess the impact of the
crisis,” Gabrielli told reporters. “But the stock plunge
should slow our plan to sell stakes in companies”  Petrobras fell 7.8 percent, or 1.58 reais, to 18.60 reais
at 2:36 p.m. New York time.  Brazil ’s benchmark Bovespa stock
index fell 8.6 percent to 48,392.10 points.  Lower Prices  Lower prices for oil and publicly-traded oil companies will
reduce the value of the exploration blocks and the stakes in
companies Petrobras is planning to sell, said Lucas Brendler, a
 fund manager  at Banco Geracao Futuro de Investimentos.  “Other integrated oil companies are going through the same
scenario of a more complicated market to raise money, and asset
prices are going down,” he said by telephone from  Porto Alegre .
“The assets will be valued much less than when they were doing
the plan, this $13.6 billion isn’t $13.6 billion anymore.”  The Arca Oil Index of leading publicly-traded  oil companies 
fell 7.1 percent to 1,067.76. Oil fell to the lowest price in
more than eight months. Brendler said investors are concerned
about weaker demand for oil in  China  and other emerging markets
as economic growth slows.  The company has a 21.7 percent holding in Braskem SA,  Latin
America ’s largest petrochemicals producer. Petrobras also has
stakes in Brazilian natural gas distribution companies and  power
plants  in Brazil.  All 66 stocks on Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index tumbled,
extending a two-week decline after a U.S. credit-rating
downgrade intensified concern that an economic slowdown in
Brazil’s second-biggest trading partner may worsen and
commodities prices dropped.  Ecopetrol Sale  Ecopetrol SA, the Colombian state-owned  oil company  fell to
a three-week low to trade below a discount price for investors
paying cash to take part in its planned $1.4 billion stock sale,
the country’s largest in about four years as U.S. slumped.  The company slid 1.6 percent to 3,600 pesos at 12:55 p.m.
in Bogota trading, after earlier dropping as much as 1.9 percent
to 3,590 pesos, the lowest intraday level since July 15. The
company seeks to sell 676 million shares at 3,700 pesos per
share, or 3,608 pesos a share for cash payment. The sale is from
July 27 until Aug. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net  or Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at +55-
   pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  