-- 
Pimco’s Gross Increased Treasury Holdings to 10%, Reduced Cash Last Month

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-08-08T17:37:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/pimco-s-gross-increased-treasury-holdings-to-10-reduced-cash-last-month.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at  Pacific Investment Management Co. , boosted
holdings of Treasuries in July during the biggest monthly rally
in the securities since August 2010 as the U.S. confronted the
possibility of default.  Gross boosted his $245 billion Total Return Fund’s
investment in U.S. government securities to 10 percent of assets
in July from 8 percent in June, according to Newport Beach,
California-based Pimco’s  website . He cut cash equivalents and
money-market securities to 15 percent from 29 percent, making it
the lowest level in the fund’s cash holdings since January.  A rally in Treasuries today on demand for a refuge pushed
the yield on two-year notes to a record low 0.23 percent. The
yield on 10-year securities was 2.37 percent after falling on
Aug. 5 to 2.33 percent, the lowest level since October 2010.  Treasuries returned 1.8 percent in July, the most since a
gain of 2 percent in August 2010, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  Standard & Poor’s  showed “spine” by cutting the U.S. debt
rating, Gross said in a Bloomberg Television interview with  Tom Keene  yesterday, contradicting  Warren Buffett  and Legg Mason
Inc.’s  Bill Miller , who said the rating company erred.  Before June, Treasuries were included in a category known
as government and government-related debt, which made up 12
percent of the Total Return Fund in January, the highest level
this year.  Developed Markets  Bonds in developed markets outside the U.S. remained steady
in the fund at 13 percent of holdings, while Gross kept holdings
of emerging-market debt at 11 percent.  Investors should buy assets of countries with “cleaner
dirty shirts” and higher real  interest rates , including Canada,
Mexico,  Brazil  and  Germany , Gross wrote in his monthly outlook
on Aug. 2. Trillions of dollars in future spending cuts and tax
increases are still necessary to stabilize the U.S. debt ratio
as a percentage of gross domestic product to maintain a AAA
credit rating, Gross wrote.  Gross boosted holdings of mortgages to 25 percent from 21
percent, while swap and liquid rates rose to negative three
percent from negative 9 percent.  The government-Treasury category includes holdings of U.S.
Treasury notes, bonds, futures and inflation-protected
securities. The swaps and liquid rates sector includes U.S.
dollar-denominated interest-rate swaps, swaptions,
options, and other derivatives. A negative number in a category
indicates a bet against  U.S. government debt .  Fund Returns  The Total Return Fund has returned 5.39 percent in the past
year, beating 59 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It gained 0.9 percent over the past
month, beating 27 percent of its competitors. The firm managed
$1.34 trillion in assets as of June.  On Aug. 2, President  Barack Obama  signed a bill that ended
the $14.3 trillion debt-ceiling impasse that pushed the Treasury
to the edge of default.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  