-- 
Pound Rises, Gilt Yields Slip as U.K. Seen Shielded From Crisis

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-08-08T12:05:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/pound-rises-gilt-yields-slip-as-u-k-seen-shielded-from-crisis.html
The pound strengthened versus most of
its major counterparts and gilt yields slipped on bets the U.K.
will remain insulated from the fiscal crises roiling the U.S.
and the euro region.  Sterling gained versus all but two of its 16 major peers,
including the dollar, and climbed most against  New Zealand ’s
currency. The  European Central Bank  bought Spanish and Italian
debt today, driving down the nations’ surging bond yields in a
bid to stem the sovereign-debt crisis. The pound touched the
highest level versus the dollar since June 1 after  Standard &
Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. credit rating.  “The U.K. doesn’t have the same sovereign-debt issues that
you have in  Europe  and the U.S.,” said  Neil Jones , the head of
European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
London. “Over the long term, U.K. assets should retain their
status as a relative safe haven. The government here has taken
proactive measures to reduce the deficit.”  The pound gained 0.2 percent to 86.91 pence per euro as of
12:14 p.m. in  London . It reached 86.43 pence on Aug. 5, the
strongest since May 27. Sterling gained 0.1 percent to $1.6414,
after touching $1.6478, and fell 0.7 percent to 127.59 yen.  Yields on 10-year gilts were less than one basis point
lower at 2.68 percent after climbing as high as 2.77 percent
earlier. Two-year note yields increased four basis points to
0.59 percent. They jumped as much as eight basis points to 0.63
percent, the steepest intraday rise in more than two months.  ECB Purchases  The ECB bought Italian and Spanish bonds today, six people
with knowledge of the matter said, after last night pledging to
“actively implement” its bond-purchase program.  “The debt crisis has helped drive gilt yields down quite a
lot because the U.K. has been seen as a safe haven to the
situation in the  euro zone ,” said  Elisabeth Afseth , a fixed-
income analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd. in London.  Benchmark 10-year gilt yields have slumped 72 basis points
this year. Yields on the securities have also been driven lower
as government spending cuts reduce prospects for economic
growth, making interest-rate increases by the  Bank of England 
less likely.  Prime Minister David Cameron’s government has embarked on
the steepest government spending cuts since World War II to
lower the fiscal deficit as bond investors demand higher yields
to buy the debt of highly indebted nations. S&P lowered the
U.S.’s AAA credit rating on Aug. 5 and kept its outlook
“negative,” saying it was becoming less confident in
lawmakers’ ability to tackle the deficit.  Job Sentiment  An index of sentiment toward U.K. employment prospects
dropped 3 points from June to minus 53 in July, while a gauge of
 job security  declined 1 point to minus 22, Lloyds Bank Corporate
Markets said today.  “It’s a given that rates in the U.K. will stay lower for
longer,” said Mizuho’s Jones.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee left the key rate
at 0.5 percent last week and maintained its bond-purchase plan
at 200 billion pounds ($327 billion) amid signs of a faltering
economy. The U.K. economy grew just 0.2 percent in the second
quarter, while manufacturing shrank in July.  Sterling has fallen 7.2 percent in the last 12 months,
making it the worst performer among 10 developed-market
currencies after the  U.S. dollar , according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  