-- 
Property Owners Face Commercial-Mortgage Bond ‘Correction,’ Barclays Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-08-08T17:12:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/property-owners-face-commercial-mortgage-bond-correction-barclays-says.html
Relative yields on securities linked
to debt on everything from skyscrapers to mobile-home parks are
at the highest in 10 months as investors flee risky assets,
raising borrowing rates and crimping new lending.  Last week’s selling, on investor concerns that European debt
woes would spread and on speculation ahead of  Standard & Poor’s 
decision to cut the U.S. AAA credit rating triggered the “most
significant correction” in the history of the commercial-
mortgage backed  securities market , according to Barclays Capital
analysts.  Top-ranked bonds backed by commercial mortgages are yielding
about 261 basis points, or 2.61 percentage points, more than
Treasuries, according to a Barclays Plc index. The spread jumped
35 basis points last week.  The $600 billion market tends to “over-react” to macro
events in part because the universe of buyers has shrunk, and
investors will likely demand higher risk premiums until prices
stabilize for a prolonged period, the Barclays analysts led by
Julia Tcherkassova said in an Aug. 5 report.  “The CMBS market has been derisking for the past couple of
months, and the slide in stocks has exacerbated that trend,”
said Jason Smith, a  money manager  at Neuberger Berman Group LLC
in  Chicago  who helps oversee $85 billion in fixed-income
securities. “The market is struggling to find the right price
for that risk.”  Spreads Widen  Spreads on the safest commercial-mortgage backed securities
are the highest since September 8, after falling as low as 178
basis points on April 26, Barclays index data show. The spread
rose to as high as 15 percentage points more than Treasuries in
November 2008 after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.  Stocks are sinking, extending the worst slump since the
 bull market  began in 2009. The  S&P 500  lost 3.7 percent to
1,155.59 at 1:05 p.m. in New York, sliding under its lowest
closing level since October. Equities extended losses as S&P
also lowered credit ratings on  Fannie Mae ,  Freddie Mac  and other
lenders with a “direct reliance on the U.S. government,”
spurring concern over the ripple effects of the loss of
America’s AAA rating.  Lenders have slowed the pace of originating new loans to
package for sale as securities amid the turmoil, according to a
Jefferies & Co. analysts led by Lisa Pendergast.  The pullback could hurt borrowers that had been relying on
a resurgence in CMBS sales to refinance maturing debt. More than
$22 billion of commercial-mortgage bonds sold this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with
$11.5 billion in all of 2010, the data show. Sales plummeted in
2008 from a record $234 billion in 2007, choking off funding to
property owners.  About $158 billion commercial mortgages packaged into bonds
will need to be refinanced through 2014, according to Citigroup
Inc. data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  