-- 
U.S. Bonds Slide, Biggest Two-Day Decline Since 2009, After S&P Rating Cut

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-08-08T02:05:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/treasury-30-year-bonds-tumble-after-s-p-rating-cut-g-7-pledge-of-support.html
Treasury 30-year bonds fell for a
second day, posting their steepest back-to-back loss in two
years, after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S. debt rating.  Longer maturities led the decline as the Group of Seven
nations announced it would take “all necessary measures” to
support financial stability. Two-year yields were two basis
points away from a record low on speculation the Federal Reserve
will postpone any increase in borrowing costs to help support
the economy.  “The downgrade is hurting Treasuries,” said Hiroki Shimazu, an economist in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., a
unit of  Japan ’s third-largest publicly traded bank by assets.
“The market is really volatile. There have been a lot of
calls” from customers.  Thirty-year yields rose five basis points to 3.89 percent
as of 10:58 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 4.375 percent note maturing in May 2041 declined
27/32, or $8.44 per $1,000 face amount, to 108 15/32.  The rate has climbed 22 basis points in two days, the
biggest increase since July 2009.  The difference between two- and 30-year yields widened to
3.62 percentage points from 3.42 percentage points on Aug. 4,
which was the narrowest since October.  Standard & Poor’s downgraded the U.S.’s AAA long-term
credit rating for the first time on Aug. 5, citing the nation’s
political process and criticizing lawmakers for failing to cut
spending or raise revenue enough to reduce record budget
deficits. S&P lowered the U.S. one level to AA+.  ‘Necessary Measures’  The G-7 will take “all necessary measures to support
financial stability and growth,” the group’s finance ministers
and central bankers said in a statement today. The officials are
seeking to stave off a collapse in global investor confidence
after the U.S. downgrade and as surging Italian and Spanish bond
yields intensified threats to the world economy.  Any selloff in Treasuries will probably be short-lived,
according to Wall Street banks.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. said a drop in Treasuries from the
ratings cut is unlikely to be “sustained.” Barclays Plc said
the downgrade shouldn’t be “significant,” and UBS AG said the
top ranking for U.S. short-term debt will prevent money funds
from being forced to react.  Bond investors from Wall Street banks that trade directly
with the  Federal Reserve  to policy makers in China and  Russia 
are likely to retain their Treasury holding as they see few
alternatives to the world’s deepest and most liquid market.  The dollar remains the world’s reserve currency even as S&P
cited the political failure to reduce record deficits while
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their AAA
credit ratings for the U.S. on Aug. 2.  “The markets are pretty-well braced and have priced this
in,” said Laura LaRosa, director of fixed income at
Philadelphia-based Glenmede, which oversees $20 billion.
“Certainly, we would not cut our Treasury holdings on the S&P
downgrade. We don’t think there’s going to be a huge violent
swing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  