-- 
Treasury Yield Curve Almost Flattest Since October on Fed’s Economic View

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-08-10T15:56:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/treasuries-rise-reversing-loss-as-asian-share-slide-boosts-debt-demand.html
Treasuries rose, pushing yields on
two- and 10-year notes toward record lows reached yesterday, as
stocks tumbled a day after the  Federal Reserve  offered a dimmer
view of the economy than it did in June.  The extra yield Treasury investors get to hold 10-year
notes instead of two-year debt was the narrowest in a year as
investors worried the European debt crisis would grow before
today’s $24 billion auction of the securities, the second of
three note and bond sales this week totaling $72 billion. Stocks
fell as Paris-based lender  Societe Generale  SA retreated 16
percent and  France ’s borrowing costs rose.  “We are seeing a yield grab,” said Larry Milstein,
managing director in New York of government and agency debt
trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and
dealer for institutional investors. “By locking the front end
of the curve for two years, the Fed wants to push investors
further out the curve and push them into risk, and that is what
we are seeing.”  Yields on 10-year notes decreased 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, to 2.12 percent at 11:31 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent
securities maturing in May 2021 rose 1 6/32, or $11.88 per
$1,000 face amount, to 108 27/32.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 3.7 percent after the
gauge’s biggest jump in more than two years yesterday.  Record Fall  The 10-year note yields slid yesterday to an all-time low
of 2.0346 percent after the Fed’s statement before paring their
drop. Two-year note yields dropped three basis points today to
0.16 percent after falling yesterday to a record low 0.1568
percent.  Investors demand about 88 basis points of extra yield to
buy 10-year French debt rather than German bunds.  The difference in yield between two- and 10-year Treasuries
was 1.95 percentage points, the least on a closing basis August
2010. A narrower yield difference, or flatter curve, indicates
investors are betting on lower growth and inflation. The
difference widens as investors demand higher compensation to buy
longer-term securities on concern the economy may strengthen,
spurring inflation.  ‘Grinding Lower’  “Until we have some resolution in stocks or some notion
that  Europe  is contained there will be very limited room for
Treasuries to sell off,” said Christian Cooper, head of U.S.
dollar derivatives trading in New York at Jefferies Group Inc.,
one of the 20 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “We are
grinding lower and lower in yields, and the inevitable questions
arise about are we Japan and if the yield curve should be this
flat.”  The extra yield 10-year securities offer over the Fed’s
target rate for overnight lending between banks shrank to 1.92
percentage points, the least since January 2009.  Demand increased at a $32 billion sale of three-year
Treasuries yesterday, the first note auction since S&P cut the
 U.S. debt  rating on Aug. 5. The yield was 0.50 percent, the
lowest since the beginning of records in May 1981. Investors bid
for 3.29 times the amount offered, the most since May for these
monthly auctions.  The 10-year securities scheduled for sale today yielded
2.305 percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 2.918
percent the last time the notes were sold July 13.  Fed Role  “The dramatic change in sentiment, with the Fed
guaranteeing low rates, provides some support,” said
Christopher Bury, co-head of fixed-income rates at Jefferies
Group Inc., one of the 20 primary dealers obliged to participate
in government auctions. “The near-term risk is that we’ve come
too far too fast and we could get a concession into the
auctions.”  Investors submitted orders for 3.17 times the amount of
debt offered last month, compared with the average of 3.11 for
the past 10 auctions.  Indirect bidders, the group that includes foreign central
banks, bought 42 percent of the debt, the least since October.
Direct bidders, non-primary dealers buying for their own
accounts, purchased 13.9 percent. A $16 billion 30-year auction
tomorrow will complete this week’s note and bond sales.  Treasuries advanced yesterday after Fed officials promised
to keep their benchmark at a historic low at least through mid-
2013 to help revive economic growth. Policy makers cut the
target rate to a range of zero to 0.25 percent in 2008.  Cash Flows  U.S. debt rallied as the central bank said U.S. economic
growth is “considerably slower” than anticipated.  “We had a good influx of cash into the market yesterday,”
said Paul Horrmann, a broker in New York at Tradition Asiel
Securities Inc., an interdealer broker. “Yields responded
pretty aggressively. We’ve had a back-up from the lows. The Fed
is saying they expect a depressed labor market and a tough road
ahead so they need to have low rates to spur growth.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to hold  interest rates 
at virtually zero provoked the most opposition among voting
policy makers in 18 years as central bank consensus frayed.
Three of his colleagues dissented from the decision to apply a
specific date to the Fed’s low rate pledge for the first time.  Societe Generale posted a record decline and led a drop in
French banking shares as the cost of insuring the country’s
government bonds increased. UniCredit SpA,  Italy ’s biggest bank,
paced a retreat in Italian banks after the country’s credit-
default swaps widened.  The bank’s shares slumped as much as 23 percent and were
down 16 percent at 21.89 euros in Paris. Credit-default swaps on
the bank rose 29 basis points to a record 299 basis points.  Treasuries have returned 6.8 percent this year, according
to indexes complied by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  Japan ’s government bonds have
gained 1.1 percent, while German bunds have advanced 4.3
percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  