-- 
Record Cash Shows S&P 500 Finances Beat U.S. After Downgrade

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-08T20:33:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/record-cash-showing-s-p-500-finances-beat-u-s-as-america-loses-aaa-rating.html
The combination of the past two
weeks’ $1.94 trillion equity wipeout, record cash levels and
rising dividends means the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is
offering comparable values to Treasuries.  The plunge from July 22 to Aug. 5 erased 11 percent from
the benchmark gauge for American equities as Congress and
President  Barack Obama  battled over the deficit and borrowing
limits that prompted S&P to downgrade the U.S. government’s AAA
credit rating for the first time. At the same time, 10-year
Treasuries have returned 3.6 percent as investors sought the
refuge of  government bonds , pushing yields down 40 basis points
to 2.56 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While the U.S. government is running record deficits, chief
executive officers have more money than ever after boosting cash
for 10 straight quarters to $963.3 billion, 58 percent more than
in December 2007 near the start of the credit crisis, S&P data
show. More than 160 companies in the gauge pay dividend yields
above the 10-year note, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Many corporations are in better shape than even the
 United States ,” E. William Stone, who helps oversee $109
billion as chief investment strategist at PNC Wealth Management
in Philadelphia, said in a telephone interview Aug. 6. “These
companies are in a position to weather pretty much any sort of
financial storm. Hopefully we won’t see that again. It certainly
would argue for that tilt towards larger, stable companies with
sustainable dividends.”  Economic Slowdown  Stocks slumped as reports on manufacturing and consumer
spending showed the world’s largest economy is slowing. The S&P
500 had its biggest weekly loss in 32 months, falling 7.2
percent to 1,199.38, the lowest level since Nov. 30, 2010. After
markets closed for the week on Aug. 5, S&P lowered the U.S.
 credit rating  one level to AA+ and said it may be reduced
further in the absence of spending cuts and amid a refusal by
Congress to let the Bush-era tax cuts expire.  The S&P 500 retreated 6.7 percent to 1,119.46 at 4 p.m. in
 New York . The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 634.76 points,
or 5.6 percent, to 10,809.85.  The retreat has pushed the index’s valuation to 13.1 times
profits in the last year as of Aug. 5, the lowest level since
the month the  bull market  began in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Concern about weakening economic data has
overshadowed an earnings season that has seen per-share profits
grow 18 percent and sales increase 13 percent at companies in
the  S&P 500  that reported second-quarter results since July 11.  ‘Under Pressure’  While the loss of the top credit rating is unlikely to
damage short-term financing sources, it adds to the cycle of
events that has erased $5.4 trillion from the value of shares
worldwide since July 26, according to Paul Zemsky, the New York-
based head of  asset allocation  for ING Investment Management,
which oversees $550 billion.  “Markets were already under pressure and this adds fuel to
the fire,” he said in an e-mailed statement Aug. 6. “There is
little positive news to counteract this event. The real risk is
that falling equity prices spook the consumer and cause them to
pull back further. This is how this type of event gets
transferred into the real economy.”  Zemsky’s Recommendations  Zemsky said he cut investments in equities before last
week’s decline. He recommended buying companies whose earnings
are most-tied to economic growth such as industrials on
expectations they fell too far. The S&P 500 Industrials Index
has lost 14 percent since July 22, compared with the full
gauge’s 11 percent retreat.  Owning companies with the highest payouts did little to
preserve capital during the last recession. From the market’s
peak on Oct. 9, 2007, the S&P 500 dropped 55 percent including
reinvested dividends to its low on March 9, 2009. S&P’s Dividend
Aristocrats index, tracking companies that have raised payouts
for 25 years, slid 47 percent over the same period.  Returning money to shareholders means companies have less
to spend on capital equipment and hiring. Orders for durable
goods unexpectedly fell 1.9 percent in June as demand for
machinery, computers and business equipment slipped, the
Commerce Department said July 27. Employers have added an
average of 108,000 jobs a month in April through July, down from
162,000 in the previous four months, Labor Department data show.  S&P 500 Performance  The S&P 500 has lost 9.2 percent since June 30, when the
U.S. Federal Reserve’s bond-purchase program expired. Fed policy
makers will meet tomorrow. Euro-region central bank governors
held emergency talks yesterday aimed at stopping Spain and  Italy 
from becoming victims of the sovereign crisis.  The U.S. downgrade “is one more reason that leads me to
believe that we are in a cyclical  bear market ,” Thomas O’Halloran, a  fund manager  at Jersey City, New Jersey-based Lord
Abbett & Co., which manages about $114 billion, said in a
telephone interview Aug. 6. “The issue that the market was
worried about was the sovereign crisis in the U.S. and  Europe .
The debt downgrade is just another negative data point that
suggests we are in an over-leveraged state in the developed
world, including the U.S.”  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their
AAA credit ratings Aug. 2, the day Obama signed the bill that
ended the debt-ceiling impasse.  European Bond Yields  Italian and Spanish bond yields rose relative to benchmark
German bunds for a second week. The yield on 10-year Italian
securities increased to 6.09 percent from 5.87 percent a week
earlier and the yield gap with bunds reached a high of 416 basis
points. The Spanish yield spread reached a high of 418 basis
points, before the 10-year note pared losses.  S&P 500 companies have put money aside and paid down debt
after the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.
Cash on corporate balance sheets excluding financial, utility
and transportation stocks represented about 9.7 percent of
market value as of March 31, up from the 20-year average of 6.7
percent, S&P data show.  U.S. companies have authorized $331.8 billion in buybacks
this year and carried out $182 billion, data compiled by Birinyi
Associates Inc. show. They bought back $342.7 billion in 2010,
the most since 2008, when they repurchased $387.2 billion,
according to data from the Westport, Connecticut-based money-
management and research firm.  ‘Less Anxiety’  “If you actually put that money to work in some form,
share repurchases or dividends, it says you have less anxiety
about the future,” Mike Ryan, the New York-based chief
investment strategist at UBS Wealth Management Americas, said in
an Aug. 5 telephone interview. His firm oversees $774 billion.  “It’s shareholder-based cash deployment that we’ll see,
because I don’t think visibility on the economy is so strong
that corporate treasurers and CFOs are going to start throwing
money at either acquisitions or building new plants and
technology,” he said.  DirecTV (DTV)  in El Segundo,  California , Oak Brook, Illinois-
based  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and 38 other companies with a history of
repurchasing shares are recommended holdings in a “balanced
global portfolio,” according to a note Aug. 3 from  Robert Buckland , Citigroup Inc.’s chief global equity strategist. The
stocks may provide relative value during periods when equity
demand is limited, he wrote.  The S&P 500 dividend yield reached 2.13 percent on Aug. 4,
the highest since August 2010. The average payout on 100 of its
biggest companies is 2.23 percent, within 0.33 percentage point
of the yield on 10-year notes. Of the 162 companies with
dividends higher than the bond’s yield, 31 are utilities such as
Duke Energy Corp. and 29 are financials including BlackRock Inc.
and Aflac Inc.  ‘Excellent Strategy’  “Dividend investing is an excellent strategy for the
current market environment,”  Brian Belski , Oppenheimer & Co.’s
New York-based chief investment strategist, wrote in a note
today. “We focus not only on growth in dividend payouts, but
also on cash levels and earnings growth” in recommending 23
stocks in the note, because “we have found that trends in these
factors make dividend yields more believable.”  Treasury Yields  The drop in Treasury yields and the rise in the S&P 500
dividend payout have lowered the spread between the two to 43
basis points as of Aug. 5, the narrowest it has been since the
2008 financial crisis, Bloomberg data show.  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , the second-largest U.S. phone carrier, and
14 other S&P 500 stocks that offer a dividend yield greater than
the current 10-year Treasury note are projected to boost their
dividend payouts, according to a Bloomberg forecast.  Chief strategists at 13 banks from Barclays Plc to UBS AG
say the S&P 500 will surge 17 percent through Dec. 31, the
average estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Their projection that
the index will reach 1,401 hasn’t budged in four weeks.  “We have been looking to invest in companies with higher
cash balances because they are able to either reinvest for
growth or make distributions to shareholders,” Brian Jacobsen,
chief portfolio strategist at San Francisco-based Wells Fargo
Funds Management, said in a telephone interview Aug. 6. His firm
manages $228 billion. “Investors are tired of getting very low
interests on their  savings accounts  and on their bond holdings,
and they will start to stretch for yield.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  