-- 
Red Sox Rally to Defeat Rival Yankees 3-2 in 10 Innings, Take AL East Lead

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-08T05:32:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/red-sox-rally-to-defeat-rival-yankees-3-2-in-10-innings-take-al-east-lead.html
The  Boston Red Sox  rallied to beat
the rival New York Yankees 3-2 in 10 innings to move into first
place in the American League Eastern Division.  The Red Sox scored the tying run off Yankees reliever
Mariano Rivera in the bottom of the ninth inning and then won
the series finale on a run-scoring single by Josh Reddick in the
10th at Fenway Park last night.  David Ortiz  started Boston’s 10th-inning rally with a one-
out double off Phil Hughes, the Yankees’ seventh pitcher. After
 Carl Crawford  was intentionally walked, Reddick ripped a hit
into the left field corner to score pinch-runner Darnell McDonald with the winning run.  “I was expecting that, luckily I got a good pitch to
handle,” Reddick, who had been 0-for-4, said of the intentional
walk to Crawford. “You’ve got to make the best of your
opportunity, keep riding this wave as long as you can and
hopefully I can keep helping this ballclub win.”  The  Red Sox  won two of three games in the series and have
10 wins in their 12 meetings against the Yankees this season.  Boston improved to 70-43 and took a one-game lead in the
division over New York, which fell to 69-44.  Eduardo Nunez  and Brett Gardner hit solo home runs for the
Yankees, who led 2-1 before Rivera blew the save in the ninth.
Marco Scutaro hit a leadoff double off Rivera and scored on a
sacrifice fly by Dustin Pedroia.  Phillies’ Streak Ends  The San Francisco Giants and  Tim Lincecum  beat Philadelphia
3-1 yesterday to snap the Phillies’ nine-game winning streak.
The Giants had lost the first three games of the series, which
was a rematch of last year’s National League Championship Series
won by San Francisco.  The  Atlanta Braves  beat the  New York  Mets 6-5 as Chipper Jones singled in the winning run in the top of the ninth inning.
In other NL games, it was St. Louis 8, Florida 4; San Diego 7,
Pittsburgh 3; Milwaukee 7, Houston 3; Cincinnati 8, the Chicago
Cubs 7; Washington 3, Colorado 2; and Arizona 4, the Los Angeles
Dodgers 3.  Elsewhere in the AL, it was Toronto 7, Baltimore 2; Oakland
5, Tampa Bay 4 in 10 innings; the Chicago White Sox 7, Minnesota
0; Kansas City 4, Detroit 3; Texas 5, Cleveland 3; and the Los
Angeles Angels 2, Seattle 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  