-- 
Repo Rates Rise on Volatility as S&P Downgrades U.S. Credit

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-08-08T16:44:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/repo-rates-rise-on-volatility-as-s-p-downgrades-u-s-credit.html
Rates for borrowing and lending
Treasuries in the repurchase-agreement market rose after an
increase in volatility following the Aug. 5 decision by  Standard
& Poor’s  to lower the U.S.’s  credit rating  to AA+.  The average level of overnight Treasury general collateral
repo rates traded through 10 a.m. New York time with ICAP Plc,
the world’s largest inter-dealer broker, was 0.08 percent, up
from 0.02 percent at the same time on Aug. 5. The rate was at
almost the six-month average of 0.087 percent.  Treasury options volatility, as measured by the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch MOVE Index, rose Aug. 5 to the highest
since March 17 as Standard & Poor’s analysts David Beers and
 John Chambers  said in a conference call that the U.S. is
unlikely to regain its top long-term credit rating quickly even
as the dollar remains the world’s reserve currency. The credit-
rating company kept the outlook for the debt at “negative,”
and said the rating could be cut again in two years if agreed
upon federal spending cuts aren’t achieved.  “It’s market volatility that matters,” said Ira Jersey,
an interest-rate strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in New
York, one of 20 primary dealers that trade directly with the
 Federal Reserve . “There’s a misconception that ratings matter
to repo margins and haircuts. That’s not true.”  VIX Rises  The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index is known, advanced as much as 28 percent to 40.96.
 Europe ’s VStoxx Index climbed as much as 17 percent to 46.11.  The average rate for overnight federal funds, known as the
fed effective rate, rose to 0.13 percent from 0.08 percent on
Aug. 5, and down from as high as 0.17 percent from Aug. 1, the
highest level since Feb. 2. That compares with the central
bank’s target rate for overnight loans between banks of zero to
0.25 percent.  Money market rates have held near historic lows for most of
this year as the budget stalemate and the Fed’s debt purchases
have reduced the amount of Treasuries available for borrowing
and lending in the repo market.  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at  interest
rates  close to the Fed’s target rate are called general
collateral. Those in highest demand have lower rates and are
called “special.”  The average rate for borrowing and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repo market was 0.043 percent on Aug. 5,
according to index data provided on a one-day lag behind by the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. That was down from 0.277
percent Aug. 1 and up from a low of minus 0.005 percent this
year on June 29.  The DTCC index is a weighted average of all general
collateral repo transactions during a day. The DTCC processes
about $3.6 trillion in repos transactions daily.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  