-- 
Republican Candidates Challenging Obama Focus Attacks in Iowa

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-08-08T15:38:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/republican-candidates-who-want-to-replace-obama-focus-attacks-in-iowa.html
The Republican presidential campaign
descends in full force on  Iowa  this week, as the state prepares
to host a straw poll that could start winnowing the field of
candidates seeking to challenge President Barack Obama in 2012.  As a prelude to the Aug. 13 straw poll, as many as nine of
the Republican candidates will  participate  in a nationally
televised debate in Ames, Iowa, on Aug. 11. A popular stop for
the White House contenders also will be the  Iowa State Fair , a
major event in the state that will hold the nation’s first
nomination contest early next year.  The straw poll’s importance took a hit when former
 Massachusetts  Governor  Mitt Romney , the frontrunner in most
surveys of Republican-leaning voters, decided against actively
competing in it. Still, the contest -- which doubles as a
fundraiser for the state  Republican Party  -- is viewed as a
potential springboard by several other candidates, including
former  Minnesota  Governor  Tim Pawlenty , and Representatives
Michele Bachmann of Minnesota and  Ron Paul  of Texas.  “It’s an important piece in regard to momentum for
candidates and how they can use that momentum for making the
case they need to make to the American people and also for
fundraising,” Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus told reporters on an Aug. 3 conference call. He said he
anticipates the party’s field won’t be settled until Labor Day.  Early Popularity  While the straw poll is designed to gauge the early
popularity and organizational ability of Republican presidential
hopefuls, it isn’t necessarily an indicator of who will win the
party’s caucuses in Iowa next year. Romney finished first in the
2007 straw poll, then former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee  won
the Republican caucuses in January 2008. Television evangelist
Pat Robertson won the 1987 straw poll, while then-Senator Bob Dole of Kansas triumphed in the 1988 caucuses.  Participating in the straw poll requires $30 admission
tickets, so better-financed candidates often pick up that cost
and provide bus rides to the venue at  Iowa State University  in
Ames. They also lure supporters with free food and
entertainment. Pawlenty plans to serve  Famous Dave’s  barbeque at
his straw poll headquarters, while Bachmann will have country
singer Randy Travis serenading her supporters.  The state’s  Democratic Party  doesn’t hold a comparable
event, and the Republican straw polls attract only a small
fraction of Iowa voters. In 2007, about 14,300 ballots were
cast, and Romney won with just 4,516 votes.  Money at Stake  “For better or worse, the straw poll is a factor” in the
Republican presidential race, said David Yepsen, a former
political writer at the  Des Moines  Register who is now director
of the Paul Simon Public Policy Institute at  Southern Illinois
University Carbondale . Some candidates, if they perform poorly,
“will see their money dry up and that will bring an end to
their campaign,” he said.  Bachmann, 55, began a week of campaigning leading up to the
straw poll by attending church services in the Des Moines area
yesterday and speaking at a county party fundraising event. In
her remarks, she repeatedly mentioned the “horrific downgrade”
by  Standard & Poor’s  on Aug. 5 of the U.S. credit rating to AA+
from AAA.  “The president has failed to inspire confidence in our
markets,” she told more than 50 people gathered at the  Fort Des
Moines Museum and Education Center .  ‘Titanium Spine’  Touting her “titanium spine” for fighting for what she
believes in, Bachmann also reiterated her call for the
resignation of Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  because of
his handling of the  U.S. economy  and the nation’s debt.  Pawlenty told reporters today that Obama and Democratic
leaders in Congress made the nation’s debt situation
“exponentially worse” by boosting spending.  “He seems un-capable or unwilling to lead in a concrete,
bold way on the most pressing financial issues of our time,”
Pawlenty told reporters over breakfast at a restaurant in
Urbandale, Iowa.  Pawlenty, citing the “psychological effect” of the
downgrade and issues with European finances, called this a
“very dangerous moment in terms of people’s outlook.”  Bachmann’s straw poll performance will demonstrate whether
her campaign has the organizing muscle to back up popularity
that showed her essentially tied with Romney in Iowa in a June
poll by the Des Moines Register, Yepsen said.  “I wonder if she can live up to her expectations,” he
said.  Paul’s Showing  Iowa political analysts have predicted Paul, 75, will
finish significantly better than his fifth-place showing four
years ago, as he benefits from a more organized and larger
network of supporters in the state. Craig Robinson, editor of
the Iowa Republican website and a former state party political
director, has predicted Paul could finish first or second.  The stakes in the straw poll may be highest for Pawlenty,
50. He has placed his greatest emphasis on Iowa since he began
pursuing the presidency, yet the Des Moines Register poll showed
him in sixth place. A poor straw poll showing would fuel the
view that he is failing to gain traction in the state.  “It’s an important event, but it’s not the ultimate
event,” Pawlenty told reporters today. “There’s a lot of
uniqueness to the straw poll that gives some advantage to
candidates like Ron Paul or  Michele Bachmann . But within that,
we’re going to do well.”  Third-Place Finish?  Pawlenty said his fundraising wouldn’t be hurt by a third-
place finish.  “It depends who the other two spots are. How close it is.
If the other two, if you’re viewed not, in the long term,
credible national candidates, then that’s less significant than
if they are,” he said.  Asked if he was referring to Bachmann and Paul, Pawlenty
said he didn’t mean to suggest they weren’t viable national
candidates.  “If somebody came in first who the country didn’t view as
a credible candidate, that’s less of a hurdle to going forward
for fundraising and political support,” he said.  Besides the candidates, issue-advocacy groups are working
to boost turnout at the straw poll. That has resulted in
 complaints  about potential conflicts of interest because a paid
organizer for Pawlenty’s campaign has also worked for  Strong
America Now , a group pushing for the candidates to pledge to cut
federal debt.  Nine Candidates   The Iowa Republican Party  listed nine candidates on the
straw-poll ballot, which will also offer a write-in option for
the first time. Candidates who rented space for the event were
guaranteed a ballot spot. Besides Bachmann, Pawlenty and Paul,
those were former Senator Rick Santorum of  Pennsylvania , former
pizza chain executive Herman Cain and Representative Thaddeus McCotter of  Michigan . The ballot will also include Romney,
former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of Georgia and former Utah
Governor Jon Huntsman Jr.  Texas  Governor Rick Perry, who is contemplating a bid,
won’t be on the ballot.  Romney’s campaign announced June 9 that he wouldn’t compete
in the straw poll, saying he would forgo all such non-binding
contests. In his second White House bid, he’s playing a lower-
key game in Iowa while focusing more on the first primary state
of  New Hampshire , where he owns a vacation home and where he is
well known because of his governorship in Massachusetts.  Romney, 64, isn’t ignoring Iowa this week. Along with
participating in the debate, he is scheduled to attend an Aug.
10 house party in Des Moines and visit the state fair.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Des Moines, Iowa, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  