-- 
Rice Futures Halted in Tokyo as Radiation Weighs On First Trades Since ’39

-- B y   J a e   H u r   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 
2011-08-08T09:09:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/rice-in-tokyo-gains-after-seven-decade-halt.html
Rice futures in  Tokyo  surged in their
first appearance on the bourse since 1939, triggering a
suspension of trade, on concern radiation from the stricken
Fukushima nuclear plant may spread to crops and curb supply.  Trade closed with no deals concluded on the  Tokyo Grain
Exchange  after prices hit 18,500 yen ($238) per 60 kilograms
from the opening, compared with the bourse’s reference price of
13,500 yen. The bourse posted today’s settlement at 14,100 yen
after the market closed and expanded the daily maximum price
limit to 1,000 yen for tomorrow from 600 yen.  The exchange listed rice contracts today for the first time
since the start of World War II to boost flagging volumes and
profit. The resumption comes as fallout from the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi power plant may spread after it was found cattle had been
fed cesium-tainted rice straw. Spinach, mushrooms, bamboo shoots,
tea, milk, plums and fish have been found to be contaminated
with cesium and iodine as far as 360 kilometers (224 miles) from
the station operated by Tokyo Electric Power Co.  “People are very concerned that rice supplies may be
smaller on fear of radiation contamination,”  Nobuyuki Chino ,
chairman of the exchange’s rice futures trading committee, told
reporters in Tokyo. “This was reflected in the prices,” said
Chino, who is also president of Tokyo-based grain company
Continental Rice Corp.  ‘Worsened Image’  Commercial stockpiles of rice, a Japanese staple, may drop
to the lowest level in four years in 2012, after the March
earthquake and nuclear disaster curbed production, possibly
spurring the government to release its reserves, according to
the agriculture ministry.  “Today’s session has worsened the image of the exchange,”
said  Kazuhiko Saito , chief analyst at Tokyo-based commodity
broker Fujitomi Co. “The reference price and daily maximum
limit were too low and too narrow and didn’t reflect current
consumer concern over supplies in coming years.”  Consumers are starting to hoard rice from last year because
of radiation fears,  Kyodo News  reported on Aug. 5. An expansion
of the bourse’s daily limit may cause excessive speculation,
prompting farmers to complain about prices, Saito said.  The Central Union of Agricultural Cooperatives,  Japan ’s
largest farmer group, strongly opposed the rice trade resumption
as it would distort prices with speculation and damage stable
supplies, the group, also and known as JA-Zenchu, said in a
 notice  on July 1.  Night Session  In night-session trade, which is settled the following day,
the closing price will be a reference price for tomorrow’s trade,
exchange spokesman Shigeru Nomura said today by phone. If
there’s no trade during the session, the bourse will set a
reference price at 16,400 yen for tomorrow, he said.  Faced with criticism from consumer groups and opposition
party politicians that lax government control has endangered
 food safety , the ministry has tightened rice screening before
the harvest begins in eastern Japan.  The government  ordered  Fukushima and 13 nearby prefectures
to test rice samples before the harvest. Authorities will ban
shipments from areas where they find grains containing cesium
exceeding 500 becquerels a kilogram. Rice production in
Fukushima and neighboring Ibaraki, Miyagi and Iwate prefectures
amounted to 1.56 million metric tons last year, out of the
country’s total of 8.5 million tons.  ‘Growing Concern’  “The timing couldn’t be worse for rice-trade resumption
following growing concern over radiation contamination in some
food products,” said Hiroyuki Kikukawa, general manager of
research at IDO Securities Co.  Japan is self-sufficient in the grain as the government
protects growers from foreign competition with a tariff of 341
yen ($4.35) a kilogram on imports. Rice harvesting normally
starts in some western areas of Japan later this month.  Kansai Commodities Exchange , based in  Osaka , also started
trading domestic rice futures today. Trading was suspended 72
years ago when the government put grain production and
distribution under its control to secure supplies during the war.  The two exchanges list yen-denominated contracts, with
deliverable grades including “koshihikari,” a popular rice
brand grown in Japan. Imported rice is excluded from physical
delivery at the exchanges as the government maintains control
over foreign purchasing and sales.  The Tokyo exchange selected non-glutinous brown rice
produced in the eastern prefectures of Chiba, Ibaraki and
Tochigi as the standard grade for the contracts. Deliverable
brands include rice grown in 12 other prefectures including
Fukushima, Miyagi and Iwate, where cattle were contaminated with
radioactive rice hay.  The government approved rice futures trading on a trial
basis for two years and may decide to halt trading if the market
is inactive or unused by hedgers. The Tokyo exchange trades corn,
soybeans, coffee, raw sugar and so-called azuki beans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  