-- 
Rousseff Urged by Opposition to Clean Up Agriculture Ministry

-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 
2011-08-08T19:39:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/rousseff-urged-by-opposition-to-clean-up-agriculture-ministry.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  is
dealing with corruption allegations inside the  Agriculture
Ministry  differently from the way she did at the Transportation
Ministry for political reasons, an opposition Senate leader
said.  Last month, Rousseff forced Transportation Minister Alfredo Nascimento and more than two dozen other officials to resign
amid allegations of kickbacks and overbilling at an agency whose
budget is the size of  Paraguay ´s $18 billion economy.
Nascimento’s Party of the Republic withdrew its support for the
government in the Senate on Aug. 2.  Stories published in Veja magazine on July 30 and Aug. 6
alleged that Agriculture Minister Wagner Rossi, a member of the
Democratic Movement Party of  Brazil , or PMDB, has been leading a
corruption scheme inside the ministry. Milton Ortolan, the
ministry’s executive secretary, resigned Aug. 6 amid the
allegations of kickbacks and embezzlement. The PMDB is
Rousseff’s largest ally in Congress.  “The president’s reaction to this case is different
because now we are talking about the main party in her
coalition,” said Senator Alvaro Dias, leader of the opposition
Brazilian Social Democracy Party in the Senate, in a telephone
interview. “The government is adopting a strategy of deflecting
accusations rather than acting.”  Speaking to reporters in Brasilia, Rossi today said he has
asked the country’s comptroller to investigate the allegations.
He has also denied knowing of or taking part in corruption
schemes, according to a  statement  published on the ministry’s
website. Ortolan denied all accusations in his resignation
 letter , published on the ministry’s website.  Rousseff reiterated her confidence in Rossi, who she
believes is taking all the necessary measures regarding the
accusations, a spokesperson from the presidential press office,
who cannot be named due to internal policy, said Aug 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  