-- 
S&P Seen Surrendering to Tea Party Costing U.S. Taxpayer

-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 
2011-08-08T16:22:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/s-p-seen-surrendering-to-tea-party-at-expense-of-u-s-taxpayer.html
Standard & Poor’s, the rating
company that downgraded the debt of the United States to AA+
from AAA for the first time, now finds itself assailed by
investors led by billionaire  Warren Buffett  for making a
political decision that has more to do with Tea Party politics
than the financial stability of the U.S.  S&P officials, shrugging off a $2 trillion calculation
error, blamed “uncertainty” in the policymaking process on
Aug. 5 when they cut the assessment of the U.S. government’s
ability to pay its debt, citing Congress’s failure to agree on
as much long-term deficit reduction as the credit-rating company
wanted. Buffett, the world’s most successful investor, said S&P
erred and the U.S. should be rated “quadruple-A.”  The New York-based subsidiary of McGraw Hill Cos., whose
inflated grades of mortgage-backed investments -- paid for by
the banks that created the toxic debt -- were blamed by
Congressional investigators for fueling the financial crisis,
rattled investors around the world and provided fodder for
President Barack Obama’s rivals in the 2012 elections.
Treasuries rose, the dollar gained, global stock markets
tumbled, oil sank and gold rallied to a record.  ‘Political Decision’  “Clearly the ratings downgrade was a ‘political decision’
in the sense that the politics explained the timing of this,
because the numbers have been irrefutable for a decade,” said
 Robert Litan , vice president for research and policy at the
Kauffman Foundation in Kansas City, Missouri. “It gives an
enormous amount of ammunition to the Tea Party. They said the
deal didn’t go far enough and they’ll say ‘see.’”  Litan, a former consultant to the U.S. Treasury, said
yesterday in a telephone interview that he agreed with the
downgrade, if not the timing. “The charts that show exploding
deficits have been around for over a decade,” he said.  S&P’s decision was at odds with the other two main ratings
companies, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings. Moody’s
reiterated its top Aaa rating for the U.S. today, citing the
dollar’s status as the main reserve currency.  The new rating from S&P is the second-highest and puts the
U.S. on the same level as Belgium and  New Zealand , and above
Japan and  China . Under S&P’s definitions, debt rated AA is
barely different from AAA securities and shows that a borrower’s
ability to “meet its financial commitment on the obligation is
very strong.”  Market Reaction  “I think S&P has demonstrated some spine; they finally got
it right,” Bill Gross, the manager of the world’s biggest bond
fund and co-chief investment officer at Pacific Investment
Management Co. who has been critical of Treasuries for months,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview with  Tom Keene 
yesterday. The U.S. has “enormous problems,” he said,
referring to the country’s mounting debt.  Gold futures surged to a record $1,718.20 an ounce as
demand increased for a psychological store of value. Gold, one
of 118 elements in the periodic table, pays no interest or
dividends like equity or debt.  The dollar depreciated 0.7 percent versus the Swiss franc.
The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index fell 3.3 percent to 1,159.91 as
of 11:45 a.m. in  New York . Benchmark indexes in Australia and
China tumbled, dropping more than 20 percent below their highs
last year. Oil fell as low as $82.52 a barrel, the lowest price
in more than eight months.  Group of Seven  Members of Group of Seven nations agreed to inject
liquidity into financial markets as needed and the  European
Central Bank  started buying Italian and Spanish bonds to curb
the region’s financial crisis, sparking a rally in the debt of
the most-indebted nations.  S&P’s action may hurt the  U.S. economy  over time by
increasing the cost of mortgages, auto loans and other lending
tied to the  interest rates  paid on Treasuries. JPMorgan Chase &
Co. estimated that a downgrade would raise the nation’s
borrowing costs by $100 billion a year. The U.S. spent $414
billion on interest in fiscal 2010, or 2.7 percent of gross
domestic product, according to Treasury Department data.  After weeks of debate, lawmakers agreed on Aug. 2 to raise
the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling and put in place a plan
to enforce $2.4 trillion in spending reductions over the next 10
years, less than the $4 trillion that S&P had said it preferred.  ‘Extremely Difficult’  S&P analysts David Beers and John Chambers said that the
“extremely difficult” political discussions over how to reduce
the more than $1 trillion  budget deficit  carried more weight in
their decision than the nation’s debt.  The “debate this year has highlighted a degree of
uncertainty over the political policymaking process which we
think is incompatible with the AAA rating,” Beers said on an
Aug. 6 conference call with reporters.  Chambers, the chairman of S&P’s sovereign debt committee
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television that “this is a
problem that has to be addressed by the full spectrum of
political parties.”  S&P’s decision provided Republican leaders with an
opportunity to criticize Obama’s administration.  Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney, the
frontrunner in most polls, said in a statement that the
downgrade is a “deeply troubling indicator of our country’s
decline under President Obama.”  ‘Beyond Their Competence’  Senator Jim DeMint, a South Carolina Republican and
favorite of the fiscally conservative  Tea Party  movement who
voted against the debt deal, said the downgrade vindicated his
decision. “The deal was not a serious attempt to solve our
spending and debt problem -- it was a political solution meant
to kick the can down the road,” he said.  Democrats disagreed. “We have the people who helped cause
the financial crisis now claiming that they’re the experts on
what the American budget should be,” Representative  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat, said in a telephone interview
before the downgrade was announced. “It’s beyond their
competence and I’m just puzzled that people pay attention.”  S&P maintained its AAA rating on the U.S. during George W. Bush’s presidency as the national debt grew to pay for wars in
Afghanistan and Iraq, tax cuts in 2001 and 2003, Medicare
prescription drug benefits and the bailout of Wall Street.
Together, those costs added $3.4 trillion to the national debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stimulus Package  Obama’s stimulus package will total $830 billion by 2019,
according to a May 2011 Congressional Budget Office report, half
the cost of the Bush tax cuts and less than two-thirds of what
has been spent on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. The U.S.
went from budget surpluses averaging $139.7 billion from 1998
through 2001 to a deficit of $1.29 trillion last year, Bloomberg
data show. The shortfall peaked at $1.42 trillion in 2009, the
first year of Obama’s presidency.  Federal revenue as a percentage of gross domestic product
fell over the past several years as the weakened economy sapped
income tax receipts. Revenue was 14.9 percent of the economy in
2009 and 2010, the least since 1950, according to the Office of
Management and Budget.  Under the administration’s February budget, which would
have allowed tax cuts to expire in 2013 for individuals making
more than $200,000 and married couples making more than
$250,000, revenue would reach 20 percent of GDP by 2021. Most
Republicans say they would like to keep federal revenue closer
to 18 percent of GDP, nearer to the post-World War II norm.  BlackRock, Buffett  The debate will continue, said Litan. “Our politics were
dysfunctional before this and I think they’ll be even more
dysfunctional now,” the former Treasury consultant said.
“Anything that’s a gift to the Tea Party makes it even less
likely that we’ll get compromise.”  BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest money manager, and
Buffett, the chairman of Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., said the decision doesn’t reflect any inability
of the U.S. to pay its debts. Buffett is Moody’s largest
shareholder with a 12.4 percent stake.  Treasuries surged, with the yield on benchmark 10-year
notes falling 0.19 percentage point to 2.37 percent as of 11:53
a.m. in New York, the lowest since January 2009. Strategists at
JPMorgan said any drop in Treasuries from the ratings cut is
unlikely to be “sustained,” while Barclays Plc said effects
from the downgrade shouldn’t be “significant.”  Bond Demand  There’s been no lack of foreign demand for Treasuries. The
amount of U.S. bonds held outside the country has risen to $4.15
trillion from $2.19 trillion in mid 2007.  S&P’s move “doesn’t change anything about the risk of U.S.
Treasuries,”  Peter Fisher , New York-based BlackRock’s head of
fixed income and a former undersecretary of the  U.S. Treasury 
Department, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  “S&P’s going to be hoisted on its own petard,” Fisher
said in another interview. “They’re going to have to follow
through and start knocking down ratings on all sorts of things
or look like they’re just mucking around in American politics.”  Credit-default swaps that protect against default on U.S.
notes for five years fell 11 percent last week to 55.4 basis
points, CMA data show. That compares with an increase of 16
percent to 74.2 for swaps linked to Germany, an 18 percent climb
to 143.8 for France, and a 4.5 percent increase to 77 for U.K.
government securities. S&P rates those countries AAA.  Economists said S&P erred by basing its decision on
politics instead of sticking to the assessment of the nation’s
finances.  “They think they’re giving an honest appraisal but they
have instead become hopelessly entangled in the politics of the
national debt,”  Chris Rupkey , the chief financial economist at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview on Aug. 5. “The U.S. is not out
of money, it has the financial resources to make good on its
debt, and it should not have been downgraded.”  ‘Basic Math’  John Bellows, the Treasury’s acting assistant secretary for
economic policy, said in a blog post that S&P initially
overestimated future deficits by $2 trillion over 10 years.  “After Treasury pointed out this error -- a basic math
error of significant consequence -- S&P still chose to proceed
with their flawed judgment by simply changing their principal
rationale for their credit-rating decision from an economic one
to a political one,” he wrote.  S&P said in a  statement  that the revision lowered its
forecast for the debt-to-gross domestic product ratio in 2015 by
two percentage points and didn’t affect its ratings decision.
S&P said in the Aug. 5 report that the ratio of debt to GDP
would reach 77 percent in 2015 and 78 percent by 2021.  S&P Scrutiny  In 2009, when S&P reaffirmed the U.S.’s AAA rating,
analysts led by Nikola Swann wrote that the ratio would approach
90 percent by 2013.  “The old fashioned ratings agencies where humans make the
decision to downgrade are always wrong,”  Christopher Whalen ,
managing director at  Institutional Risk Analytics , said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  S&P, Moody’s and Fitch came under scrutiny for ratings of
financial products linked to subprime mortgages after losses and
writedowns by the world’s biggest financial institutions reached
$2.1 trillion.  The Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission called S&P and
Moody’s “key enablers of the financial meltdown” in its
January report. In April, a Senate panel said that the rating
companies engaged in a “race to the bottom” to assign top
grades on mortgage-backed securities in order to win fees from
banks.  ‘Last People’  S&P kept an A- rating on Iceland until October 6, 2008,
when the country’s government was forced to guarantee all
domestic bank deposits after its currency plunged. The company
reaffirmed its AAA rating for Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
financial products unit on Sept. 12, 2008, three days before the
bank failed. It downgraded Bear Stearns Cos. to BBB on March 14,
2008, two days before JPMorgan agreed to buy the failing
securities firm.  “There is no reason to take Friday’s downgrade of America
seriously,” Nobel Laureate Paul Krugman said in a New York
Times column. “These are the last people whose judgment we
should trust.”  While S&P cut Japan’s credit rating to AA- in 2002, the
country has no difficulty borrowing. Japan’s 10-year notes yield
1 percent, compared with 2.41 percent for AAA rated German
bunds, Bloomberg data show.  “In those rare cases where rating agencies have downgraded
countries that, like America now, still had the confidence of
investors, they have consistently been wrong,” Krugman wrote.  ‘Key Factors’  S&P said in its report that the failure by politicians to
act on increasing government revenue also was a consideration in
its decision. It no longer assumes that the 2001 and 2003 Bush
tax cuts would expire by the end of 2012 “because the majority
of Republicans in Congress continue to resist any measure that
would raise revenues.”  Politics is listed as one of five “key factors” in S&P’s
methodology for grading governments. “Part of our analysis
assesses how government policymaking affects a sovereign’s
credit fundamentals,”  Ed Sweeney , a spokesman for the ratings
company, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  S&P gives 18 sovereign entities its top ranking. The U.K.,
with a debt estimated at 80 percent of GDP this year, or 6
percentage points higher than the U.S., has the top credit
grade. In contrast with the U.S., its net public debt is
forecast to decline either before or by 2015, S&P has said.  ‘Mismanaged Country’  “To downgrade you have to argue there’s an increased
chance that we won’t pay our debts,” said Peter J. Solomon,
founder of New York-based investment bank Peter J. Solomon Co.
and a one-time counselor to the Treasury Secretary under
President Jimmy Carter. “I don’t think that’s been proven, I
think it’s been proven that we always will pay our debts.”  Solomon said yesterday in a telephone interview that
politicians are wrong to criticize S&P’s decision. “If I were a
politician I wouldn’t shoot the messenger,” he said. “This is
really a mismanaged country.”  Alice Rivlin , former President Bill Clinton’s budget
director who served on a fiscal commission Obama set up last
year, called the downgrade “entirely symbolic.”  S&P “has no inside information and has done no original
research, so they aren’t telling anyone anything they didn’t
know already,” Rivlin said in an e-mail. “It is not like
downgrading a company or a complex security, where they might
actually be contributing new information -- although their track
record before the crisis doesn’t inspire confidence there
either.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  