-- 
S&P’s Dubious Downgrade of U.S. Is a Reminder on Revenue: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-08T00:00:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/s-p-s-dubious-downgrade-of-u-s-is-a-reminder-on-revenues-view.html
We’ll find out soon enough what the
markets will make of the decision by  Standard & Poor’s  to
downgrade its rating of U.S. sovereign debt to AA+ from AAA. But
the early response from the people who matter most in the
controversy -- the Asian and European nations that Hoover up
Treasuries -- seems to show a score of: U.S. 1, S&P 0.  The playing down of the downgrade by  officials  in  Japan ,
 South Korea , Britain,  Russia  and elsewhere ( China , the biggest
purchaser, has been vague) was probably to be expected. After
all, the value of a rating service comes when it digs deep into
a corporate balance sheet and finds things that catch potential
investors unawares. In this case, the budgetary shenanigans and
political machinations of Washington are completely and
embarrassingly out in the open, and S&P’s report didn’t contain
one iota of information the public didn’t already know.  Rather, S&P’s explanation for the downgrade was entirely
political, reflecting the company’s view that the “effectiveness,
stability and predictability of American policymaking and
political institutions have weakened at a time of ongoing fiscal
and economic challenges.”  The Treasury claims that S&P’s conclusion, which will
likely cause the dollar to sink and push up domestic  interest
rates , stemmed in part from a “basic math” error involving $2
trillion in cumulative deficits. It is also clear the firm
relied on two questionable assumptions: first, that the George W. Bush tax cuts are certain to be extended before they expire in
2012, which is anything but certain; and second, that one can
predict with any sort of assurance where the political winds
will lead us a decade from now. One wonders how S&P can so
specifically predict a net U.S. debt-to-GDP ratio of 85 percent
in 2021 just paragraphs after it laments the total lack of
“predictability” in the nation’s political system.  That said, let’s look at the upside of S&P’s decision. We
hope it will reinforce just how inadequate the debt-ceiling
compromise was in terms of the long-term financial picture in
the U.S. We wish the so-called supercommittee in Congress much
luck in paring spending, but the $1.5 trillion in cuts it is
supposed to find won’t make a significant dent in the federal
debt.  Also, S&P’s entry into the political playing field should
give further impetus to efforts, under the Dodd-Frank financial
reform package, to end the overreliance on ratings from private
firms in U.S. regulations and laws. Perhaps  Washington  can also
take a closer look at the cozy relationship between the rating
firms and the big banks that pay them while being subject to
their scrutiny, which played no small role in the housing bubble.  We recently commended the rating services insofar as they
are able to play a constructive role in the American and
European debt crises. S&P’s downgrade decision did not clear
that bar. But we give the report credit for highlighting a
difficult political truth: at some point revenue must be
enhanced, whether through raising taxes on the wealthy and
middle class, reforming the  tax code , instituting a national
value-added tax or some combination thereof. If placing the full
faith and credit of the U.S. on a par with that of  Belgium  -- a
nation that has now gone 421 days without a government -- was
necessary to drive that point home in Washington, we’ll owe S&P
a debt of gratitude.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 