-- 
HSBC Tops Family Office List as Money Firms Manage Rises 17%

-- B y   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-08-08T23:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/hsbc-tops-family-office-list-as-money-firms-manage-rises-17-.html
Seth Abraham, former president of  New
York ’s  Madison Square Garden , has used the same barber for 37
years.  “I followed him through five salons,” Abraham, 63, says.  Abraham is equally loyal to his money managers, Sam Katzman
and Paul Tramontano, who have looked after his assets for more
than 15 years. When Katzman and Tramontano left  Citigroup Inc. ’s
Smith Barney brokerage unit -- now Morgan Stanley Smith Barney
-- in 2007 to form Constellation Wealth Advisors LLC, Abraham
also jumped ship.  Constellation is a family office, a luxe kind of financial
adviser first established by the Rockefellers, the Guinness
brewing family and other dynasties. Family offices manage money,
handle taxes and, in some cases, buy private jets, scout
vacation homes, hire butlers and find drug treatment programs
for wayward progeny, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its
September issue.  The latest financial titan to set up a family office is
 George Soros . In July his hedge fund, Soros Fund Management LLC,
told clients it would during the rest of the year return money
to all outside investors, amounting to less than $1 billion of
its $25.5 billion in assets, and would then operate as a family
office. Single family offices are not required to register with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  These days, you don’t have to be a Carnegie or a Soros to
have a family office cater to your every whim. If you have as
little as $5 million, you can take your pick of hundreds of
multifamily firms.  Constellation , with $4 billion under management, is tied
with  Pitcairn , based in Jenkintown,  Pennsylvania , for No. 23 in
Bloomberg Markets’ first annual ranking of family offices.  HSBC No. 1  The list, which ranks 50 firms by assets, is topped by HSBC
Private Wealth Solutions, a unit of London-based  HSBC Holdings
Plc ’s private bank. Private Wealth Solutions oversees $102
billion for families in 18 offices around the world.  New York-based Bessemer Trust Co. is No. 2, with $44.5
billion under management.  Seven of the top 10 providers of family-office services are
owned by or affiliated with big banks. In addition to HSBC, the
list includes Switzerland’s  UBS AG  (No. 3), San Francisco-based
 Wells Fargo & Co.  (No. 5) and Atlanta-based  SunTrust Banks Inc. ,
which bought 70 percent of  Palm Beach Gardens , Florida-based
GenSpring Family Offices LLC (No. 7) in 2001.  The amount of money managed by the 50 top firms increased
17 percent, to $477 billion, in 2010 from 2009. The number of
multifamily-office firms in the U.S. has doubled in the past 10
years, according to Wheaton, Illinois-based  Family Wealth
Alliance LLC , which provides consulting services to the
industry.  Growing Families  Banks and independent firms pursue the business because one
client can beget many more as a family grows, says Anna Nichols,
a managing director at the  Family Office Exchange , a Chicago
organization that represents 330 wealthy families.  “They can be clients for generations,” Nichols says.  To make the list, the normally secretive companies had to
serve more than one family and provide the amount of assets they
oversee and the number of clients they serve. Those that
declined weren’t included.  The tussle in the business is between banks and independent
firms. The boutiques say the banks are more likely to break the
cardinal rule in the industry: Don’t flog your products.  “The big firms have become manufacturing companies --
manufacturers of financial products,” Constellation’s Tramontano
says.  Conflict of Interest  Pushing clients to buy shares of mutual funds or  hedge
funds  run by a bank is a conflict of interest, says G. Randolph Webb Jr., chief executive officer of Signature, a family office
in Norfolk,  Virginia , with $2.2 billion of assets under
management.  “Capital is moving away from the product-driven side of the
industry,” Webb says.  HSBC  offers its families both its own  funds  and those
managed by outside firms, says Mary Duke, head of global family
wealth in New York.  “They are not compelled to choose us,” she says.  HSBC Private Bank , which manages funds for some family-
office clients, will no longer maintain overseas accounts for
U.S. residents, the bank announced in July. The move comes amid
a crackdown by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and  Justice
Department  on U.S. residents who use offshore accounts to avoid
taxes.  Letters to Clients  Before it announced the global change of policy, HSBC had
begun sending letters to U.S.-domiciled clients with accounts in
 India , saying they would need to close their offshore accounts.
In April, a New Jersey businessman named Vaibhav Dahake pleaded
guilty to conspiring with bankers at HSBC to hide money in India
from the IRS.  Asked about the Dahake case, HSBC spokeswoman Juanita Gutierrez said, “HSBC does not condone  tax evasion , and we have
no further comment.”  Independent registered investment advisers such as
Constellation controlled 11.5 percent of the $13.4 trillion U.S.
wealth-management market in 2010, up from 9.5 percent in 2007,
according to data from research firm  Aite Group LLC  in  Boston .
Brokers from the largest banks manage 38 percent, down from 41
percent in 2007, Aite says.  By any measure, catering to the wealthy is a growth
business. The number of individuals worldwide with $30 million
of liquid assets to invest rose 10.2 percent to 103,000 in 2010,
according to a June  report  by  Cap Gemini SA  and  Merrill Lynch
Global Wealth Management , a unit of Bank of America Corp. That
$30 million club controls $15 trillion of capital in total.  Fee Squeeze  Getting clients with big money doesn’t mean you’re going to
make big money, says Elizabeth Nesvold, managing partner at
 Silver Lane Advisors LLC , a New York-based investment bank that
specializes in mergers and acquisitions of wealth-management
companies.  The heavy increase in competition means many new family
offices are willing to cut rates, she says. Most charge annual
fees equal to a percentage of a family’s liquid assets; 0.35 to
0.75 percent is the normal range, according to the Family Office
Exchange.  Labor-intensive work such as taking a client’s son or
daughter on a college tour is often included in the fee, Nesvold
says, and if those tasks multiply, profits go down quickly.  Bessemer had a profit margin of 13 percent in 2010 compared
with  21 percent  at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , whose internal
family office is called  Ayco Co.  (Goldman chose not to
participate in the ranking.)  Personal Service  Bessemer is owned by its employees and the descendants of
Henry Phipps, a partner of  Andrew Carnegie . Phipps started the
firm in 1907 to manage his proceeds from the sale of Pittsburgh-
based Carnegie Steel Co. Bessemer now serves more than 2,000
multigenerational families.  John Hilton, CEO of Bessemer, says the advantage of working
for a private firm like his is that there are no shareholders to
satisfy. And it means he can go the extra mile for his clients.
One of his employees once waited in line at the Department of
Motor Vehicles in New York for a client who had just moved to
the city and needed a license. The Bessemer staffer called the
client as she reached the front of the line.  No. 1 HSBC Private Wealth Solutions has grown partly by
catering to  Asia’s newly rich . Last year, the region housed 3.3
million millionaires, according to Cap Gemini and Merrill Lynch,
compared with  Europe ’s 3.1 million.  Asia’s New Billionaires  Bernard Rennell, global head of HSBC Private Wealth
Solutions, who’s based in  Hong Kong , says his group targets
families with $500 million or more.  Asia ’s new billionaires
often come seeking help with succession plans, Rennell says.
HSBC came up with a bespoke solution for an Asian tycoon who
wanted to pass along a controlling stake in his company to his
seven children without giving all of them a chance to meddle in
the company’s day-to-day workings.  The banks’ family offices have gotten bigger partly by
buying boutiques.  Bank of Montreal  bought the name and client
assets of MyCFO Inc., founded by technology entrepreneur Jim Clark, in 2002. Now called  Harris MyCFO , it’s No. 9 in the
Bloomberg Markets ranking, with $18.3 billion. Atlantic Trust,
No. 11 with $14.8 billion, is an amalgam of three wealth
managers that Atlanta money-management company  Invesco Ltd.  put
together from 2001 to 2004.  Kirk Bowman, a venture partner at  Accel Partners , a
venture-capital firm in  Palo Alto ,  California , says he looked at
the big investment banks before handing his fortune over to
MyCFO.  “It’s better to have someone who’s investment-vehicle
agnostic as opposed to someone who’s got an unnatural incentive
to put you in their product,” Bowman, 45, says.  Nimble Investor  Unlike the big banks, Constellation is nimble enough to
pounce on unique investments, Tramontano says. Recently, Abraham
and other clients invested in a partnership that’s buying
apartment buildings across the U.S. The venture is projected to
deliver a 7 percent cash flow yield, without the fees that come
with doing such an investment through a fund. Abraham even got
to meet the partnership’s managers before committing his cash,
he says.  It’s that kind of personal touch that makes family offices
popular, Tramontano says. The strategy has certainly worked for
Constellation. It has gone from zero to almost $4 billion in
assets in just four years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony Effinger in Portland, Oregon, at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net .
Elizabeth Ody in New York at 
 eody@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net .
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 