-- 
SEB’s Jha Says Favors Singapore Dollar, Rupiah, South Korean Won

-- B y   C h i e n   M i   W o n g   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 
2011-08-08T03:48:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/seb-s-jha-says-favors-singapore-dollar-rupiah-south-korean-won.html
Sailesh K. Jha, Singapore-based head
of Asia markets strategy at Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB,
comments on the outlook for Asian currencies in a Bloomberg
Television interview today following a downgrade of the U.S.
credit rating by  Standard & Poor’s .  The Swedish bank forecasts the  Singapore dollar  will
strengthen 1.2 percent to S$1.20 per dollar in one month and the
Indonesian rupiah will gain 1 percent to 8,460.  South Korea ’s
won will rise 2.3 percent to 1,050, Jha said.  “Investors would actually welcome stabilizing comments
from global policy makers at this juncture and I think that is
going to be coming. That’s the reason why we are bullish on
Asian currencies and equities going forward.  “This risk-off sentiment that we are seeing today, and
probably may last for the next couple of days, is going to be
fairly short-lived because any sort of risks in financial
markets or downside risks with the outlook of the global economy
will see Asian central bank coordination with their counterparts
in the U.S. and  Europe  to stabilize that sentiment.  “Problems we are seeing in the developed world are majorly
positive for Asian risky assets in our opinion.”  On S&P downgrade:  “This downgrade actually accelerates the timetable for U.S.
policy makers to embark on their significant fiscal
consolidation package, which clearly last week they didn’t due
to the political and economy constraints.  “The downgrade then means rather than waiting until
potentially the end of October to early November to get their
act together in terms of announcing further fiscal consolidation,
it could come sooner rather than later.  “The debt dynamics of the U.S. remain quite challenging
but that’s essentially a structural issue that’s going to remain
over the next several years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chien Mi Wong in Singapore at 
 cwong303@bloomberg.net ;
Rishaad Salamat in  Hong Kong  at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 