-- 
Singapore Narrows 2011 Growth Forecast Range as Global Risks Threaten Asia

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-08-08T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/singapore-narrows-2011-growth-forecast-range-to-5-6-as-global-risks-rise.html
Singapore  reduced the top end of its
growth forecast for 2011 as a faltering U.S. economy and the
European debt crisis heightened the risks to global expansion.  The Southeast Asian nation’s gross domestic product will
probably rise 5 percent to 6 percent this year, Prime Minister
Lee Hsien Loong said in a televised message yesterday on the eve
of the island’s National Day. The government previously
predicted growth of as much as 7 percent.  “ Asia , led by China and  India , is expected to continue
growing but the global outlook remains uncertain,” Lee said.
“Europe’s debt problems are far from solved despite the recent
bailout of  Greece  by the European Union. The  U.S. economy 
remains sluggish.”  Asia faces the threats of weakening demand and rising
currencies after  Standard & Poor’s  cut its U.S. credit rating
and a sell-off in Italian and Spanish debt intensified risks to
the world recovery. Singapore remains vulnerable to fluctuations
in overseas orders for manufactured goods even as the government
boosts financial services and tourism, making it the most
volatile Asian economy, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  “If the U.S. goes into a recession, then no doubt
Singapore will get hurt significantly,” said Kun Lung Wu, a
Singapore-based analyst at Credit Suisse. “That’s not our
current view yet. We still expect U.S. growth to continue but at
a very weak level.”  Economy Shrinks  Credit Suisse lowered its growth estimate for Singapore in
2011 to 5.5 percent from 6.5 percent yesterday and said there
are “downside risks” to the outlook if  Europe ’s debt crisis
deteriorates further.  Singapore’s GDP rose 4.9 percent in the first half of 2011
from a year earlier, Lee said yesterday.  The $223 billion economy shrank last quarter from the
previous three months as manufacturing slumped, adding to signs
of slower growth in Asia after the region led the global
recovery from the 2009 recession. Europe’s debt woes and a
struggling U.S. economy have contributed to a loss in investor
confidence that has wiped about $6.7 trillion off stocks
worldwide since the beginning of May.  “ Japan  has the added burden of the earthquake and tsunami
recovery,” Lee said. “These three key economies are struggling
to find the decisive leadership they need to resolve their
domestic challenges and these will weigh them down and dampen
global prospects.”  Inflationary Pressure  The island’s economy probably contracted 7.7 percent in the
second quarter from the first, according to the median estimate
of nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Initial
government estimates released last month showed a 7.8 percent
decline. The revised figures will be released tomorrow.  Inflationary pressures are rising in the nation of 5
million people even as growth slows from a record 14.5 percent
pace in 2010. Last month, the central bank raised its inflation
estimate for 2011 to 4 percent to 5 percent, from a previous
estimate of 3 percent to 4 percent.  The  Singapore dollar  has reached unprecedented levels since
the central bank said in April it would allow further
appreciation to tame price gains, the third monetary policy
tightening in a year. It rose for the first day in five
yesterday against its U.S. counterpart, climbing to S$1.2161 and
leading gains in Asian currencies on speculation global funds
will shift more cash into non-dollar assets after the U.S.
sovereign rating downgrade last week.  Foreign Workers  The island will celebrate its 46th year of independence
today with an annual parade of tanks, artillery and fighter jet
displays.  The government is moderating the flow of foreign workers
and immigrants and reviewing social safety nets, Lee said.  Lee’s ruling People’s Action Party won the May general
election with the smallest margin of popular votes since
independence as voters expressed discontent over the rising cost
of living and competition with foreigners for jobs and housing.
Lee pledged his party will change the way it rules after the
opposition won a record number of seats.  “While we always put Singaporeans first, let us not turn
negative on foreigners,” he said yesterday. “Singapore has
prospered because we’ve been open to the world and alive to
economic competition and change. This is how we have attracted
investment, created jobs for ourselves and made Singapore a
vibrant city.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  