-- 
Sirius XM Subscribers Urge Judge to Reject Antitrust Accord

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-08-08T20:36:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/sirius-xm-radio-judge-defers-ruling-on-settlement-of-subscriber-lawsuit.html
A federal judge heard objections to
the settlement of a lawsuit by  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI)  subscribers
who claimed the satellite radio broadcaster broke the law when
it raised prices after merging with its only rival.  U.S. District Judge Harold Baer in  Manhattan  made no
decision today on approving the accord after subscribers argued
at a hearing that the agreement gives them too little and the
lawyers too much.  Subscriber Carl Blessing of  Florida  sued Sirius XM in 2009,
claiming it violated federal antitrust and state consumer-
protection laws when it raised prices and levied a music royalty
fee after Sirius Satellite Radio and XM Satellite Radio
completed their merger in 2008. Blessing said in his complaint
his monthly rate jumped 40 percent to $27.88 after the merger.  “I rely on satellite radio every day for weather and
news,” Marguerite Willis, a subscriber from  South Carolina  who
commutes 180 miles a day for work, told the judge. “I have no
alternative. Combining Sirius and XM created a firm with
monopoly power in rural South Carolina.”  The subscribers said New York-based Sirius XM broke
promises it made to win approval of the merger from the U.S.
Federal Communications Commission and  Justice Department . Sirius
XM said the increases were imposed to cover higher costs.  Baer in March let the federal antitrust claim proceed as a
class-action, or group, lawsuit, on behalf of Sirius XM
subscribers. He denied class-action status on the state-law
claims.  Preliminary Approval  The class and Sirius XM reached a pretrial settlement, and
Baer gave preliminary approval to the agreement in May.  “The settlement is appropriately scaled to the scope of
the case,” John Marjoras, a lawyer representing Sirius, told
the judge today. “There were hard-fought negotiations. We fully
expected to go to trial.”  The accord, valued at $180 million, provides that prices
for basic service and  Internet access , as well as the music
royalty fee, will remain at current levels through the end of
the year. Subscribers who canceled can reconnect without paying
a fee. Those whose plans expire after Dec. 31 can renew before
that time at current rates. Subscribers will get no cash.  “The expectation was that the price would increase $2 a
month” after a cap imposed by the FCC expired in July, Joseph
Sabella, a lawyer representing the class, told the judge. He
said there were 67 objections to the settlement out of 15
million class members.  $13 Million  Objectors argued that Sirius XM never said it would raise
prices before year-end. Some objected to language in the accord
that would release Sirius from further claims. They also
objected to the $13 million Sirius would pay for fees and
expenses to the lawyers representing the class.  Sabella said “$13 million, considering the value conveyed
on the class, is certainly justified.” He added that if the
judge reduced the fees, the money would go back to Sirius, not
the class members.  Sirius dropped 24 cents, or 12.7 percent, to $1.65 at 4:30
p.m.  New York  time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares
have risen 1.2 percent this year. The company said it had 21
million subscribers as of June 30, 8 percent more than the
previous year.  Sirius XM provides 135 channels of commercial-free music as
well as talk shows featuring  Howard Stern  and  Martha Stewart ,
which carry advertisements, and professional sports.  The basic monthly charge is $12.99. In 2009, Sirius XM
increased the rate a subscriber paid to get service on an
additional radio to $8.99 a month from $6.99. The class also
complained about a $2.99 charge for Internet access, which had
been free. The music charge, assessed after new royalty rates
with  record companies  were set, amounted to $1.98 a month.  The case is Blessing v. Sirius XM Radio, 1:09-cv-10035,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  