-- 
Skilled Workers Follow the Money in Flight From Portugal: Chart of the Day

-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-08-08T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/skilled-workers-follow-the-money-in-flight-from-portugal-chart-of-the-day.html
Portuguese net migration, the numbers
entering minus those leaving, is set to slide beyond the lowest
level in almost two decades as workers join investors in fleeing
a debt crisis that’s hammering  job creation  and economic growth.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows those entering Portugal over
people leaving fell to 3,815 in 2010, the lowest since 1992. Net
migration data, last issued by the National Statistics Institute
on June 7, may slip into negative territory unless the country
can reverse an exodus of workers seeking employment abroad,
according to Economy Minister Alvaro Santos Pereira.  “Our jobless rate hasn’t gone higher because many
Portuguese are leaving,” Santos Pereira told parliament on Aug.
2. “If nothing is done, we will certainly all have emigrated.
The government is totally committed for that not to happen.”  Unemployment rose to 12.4 percent in the first quarter, the
highest figure in at least 13 years, as the economy fell into a
recession. About one in five of the most qualified Portuguese
workers live abroad, Santos Pereira, who used to be an economics
professor at Simon Fraser University in  Canada , wrote in a book
this year titled “ Portugal  in the Hour of Truth.”  Surging borrowing costs and debt levels forced the nation
in April to become the third euro region member after Greece and
Ireland to seek aid from the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund . The economy will shrink by 2 percent this year
and 1.8 percent in 2012, the central bank said on July 12. The
country’s economic growth has averaged less than 1 percent a
year in the past decade, one of the weakest rates in  Europe .  About 5.1 million Portuguese or people of Portuguese origin
live outside the country, according to Foreign Affairs Ministry
data, compared with a resident population of about 10.6 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net ;
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 Acullen8@bloomberg.net .
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  