-- 
FIFA Is Said to Open Corruption Cases Against Caribbean Soccer Officials

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-08-08T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/soccer-body-said-to-start-corruption-cases-against-officials-in-caribbean.html
Soccer’s governing body will start
corruption proceedings against more than 10 Caribbean officials
after a probe into allegations they took money from a candidate
in its presidential election, according to two people familiar
with the matter.  FIFA on July 26 gave the officials from the Caribbean
Football Union 48 hours to come forward with information about a
meeting where Mohamed Bin Hammam, a one-time challenger to FIFA
President  Sepp Blatter , allegedly offered envelopes stuffed with
$40,000. Bin Hammam, the former head of soccer in  Asia , is
appealing the lifetime ban he was given from the sport.  Zurich-based FIFA’s ethics panel will meet today and is
likely to bring the cases after more witnesses came forward to
give details of the May 9 and 10 meeting at a hotel in Port-of-
Spain,  Trinidad and Tobago , according to one of the people with
knowledge of the investigation. The pair were granted anonymity
because they weren’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly.  “We cannot speculate on what will happen,” FIFA said in
an e-mailed statement. Ben Spencer, a spokesman for the
Confederation of North, Central American and Caribbean
Association Football, didn’t respond to an e-mail or telephone
messages seeking comment.  Bin Hammam  became the highest-ranked soccer official to be
excluded from the sport on July 23.  FIFA  has spent a year trying
to deal with corruption allegations linked to the presidential
election as well as the choice of host for the World Cup, which
brings in $4 billion.  Warner Quits  One of FIFA’s vice presidents, Trinidad-based Jack Warner,
quit the sport after being suspended pending the investigation
into him and Bin Hammam. He arranged the Qatari’s meeting with
the CFU and the duo were first suspended May 29. FIFA dropped
its case against Warner, saying “the presumption of innocence
is maintained,” following his withdrawal from the sport. Warner
was also head of Concacaf, the regional body.  The new cases would lead to the largest mass suspension of
officials in FIFA’s 107-year history. Six officials were
suspended in October after allegations of vote buying linked to
 World Cup  bidding.  The inquiry has been led by former U.S. Federal Bureau of
Investigation director Louis Freeh.  FIFA told the officials they would face less severe
punishment should they come forward with information on the
case. The Caribbean authorities may get lifetime bans if they
were found to be withholding information. Some of the attendees
have changed their stories about what happened, according to one
of the people.  ‘Zero Tolerance’  “Truthful and complete reporting will be considered in
mitigation by the ethics committee when deciding on potential
sanctions,” FIFA said last month. “Any person who has relevant
information but does not come forward during this 48-hour period
will be subject to the full range of sanctions.”  Blatter secured a fourth four-year term unopposed after Bin
Hammam, the only other candidate, withdrew. Blatter promised a
“zero tolerance” approach to fighting wrongdoing upon re-
election on June 1.  Cuba was the only member of the 25-strong CFU that didn’t
send a delegate to the Trinidad meeting where Bin Hammam pitched
for votes. Officials from nine countries told investigators they
had accepted or were offered envelopes full of cash. The
remaining 15 denied any knowledge of the incident or refused to
take part in the probe.  “Many cases, which look very simple, are not as simple as
they look and this one could be a complicated case,” Guido Tognoni, a former adviser to Blatter at FIFA, said in a
telephone interview.  ‘Flimsy’ Evidence  Bin Hammam, 62, said he’ll appeal to the Court of
Arbitration for Sport and Swiss civil courts if FIFA doesn’t
overturn his ban, which he claims is based on “flimsy”
evidence. On Aug. 4, he complained about the time taken to
publish the reasons behind his suspension.  “This delay is suspicious in that it gives FIFA the time
to devise a justification for a decision that it was always
going to make anyway,” he said on his  blog . “This is also
outrageous as FIFA has been quick to publicize my guilt while
holding up my opportunity to appeal.”  The ethics committee will also hear a case against Lisle
Austin, a Barbados official who briefly replaced Warner as head
of Concacaf. He’s alleged to have broken FIFA statutes
concerning taking legal action in civil courts. All disputes
must be settled by governing bodies or the Swiss-based Court of
Arbitration for Sport, according to FIFA. Ryan Toohey, a
spokesman for Austin, wasn’t immediately able to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  