-- 
Sotheby’s Shares Fall 13% Amid Concern About Art Market Rally

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-08-08T20:58:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/sotheby-s-shares-plunge-13-amid-concern-about-resilience-of-art-market.html
Sotheby’s (BID)  shares plunged as much as
20 percent today amid concern that the art market rally since
the 2008 financial crisis will fizzle.  Shares of the publicly traded auctioneer closed down $5.17,
or 13 percent, to $33.44, and are off 39 percent since their
April 5 high this year. In the past three sessions, they’re down
16 percent.  Stocks around the world have tumbled as investors fretted
about a global relapse into recession. Late Friday, Standard &
Poor’s cut the U.S. credit rating.  “Global financial equity markets are a proxy for global
wealth,” said Rommel Dionisio, an analyst with Wedbush
Securities, who has an “outperform” rating on the shares.
“There’s reason for concern. It depends on how pronounced or
severe this downturn is.”  On Aug. 3, Sotheby’s reported its best-ever quarterly
profit of $127 million, with record sales of $3.4 billion for
the first half of 2011. In a conference call after the earnings
release, Chief Executive Officer William Ruprecht said he
believed “market volatility” around the world “in other
arenas” has encouraged participation in the art market.  Ruprecht also referred to economic volatility “that the
media is awfully good at frightening people with on a daily
basis.”  The shares initially rallied the morning after the
earnings, then slid amid the 4.8 percent daily in the  Standard &
Poor’s  500 Index. The index is down 11 percent in three
sessions. If equity markets decline further, potential
consignors of art may choose to wait until prosperity returns,
Dionisio said.  The auction season begins for Sotheby’s on Sept. 13, with
Chinese works of art in  New York .  To contact the writer on the story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 