-- 
South Africa ‘Confident’ on Growth, Budget Even After U.S. Debt Downgraded

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-08-08T14:27:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/south-africa-confident-on-growth-budget-even-after-u-s-debt-downgraded.html
South Africa said it is “confident”
about projections for economic growth and the  budget deficit 
even as risks to the global economy increased following a
downgrade of U.S. debt.  The National Treasury and  Reserve Bank  “will continue to
actively monitor the situation to mitigate any financial
stability risks and any adverse short-term and long-term effects
on the broader economy,” the institutions said in a joint
statement e-mailed today. Growth and fiscal projections will be
updated in the mid-term budget due in October, they said.  The Reserve Bank on July 21 left its benchmark  interest
rate  unchanged at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent as it tries to
bolster the flagging recovery in Africa’s biggest economy. Gross
domestic product growth probably slowed in the second quarter
from 4.8 percent in the previous three months, as  Europe ’s debt
crisis cut demand for South African exports, Deputy Governor
 Daniel Mminele  said last week.  Manufacturing, which makes up 15 percent of South Africa’s
economy, is under pressure after the Purchasing Managers Index
declined to a two-year low of 44.2 in July, indicating a drop in
production. South Africa’s jobless rate, the highest of 61
countries tracked by Bloomberg, increased to 25.7 percent in the
second quarter.  The Treasury in February forecast a budget deficit of 5.3
percent of GDP in the fiscal year through March 2012. It
predicted the economy will grow 3.4 percent this year.  The central bank sees “no reason to make any significant
changes” to foreign currency reserves after  U.S. debt  was
downgraded to AA+ from AAA by  Standard & Poor’s  last week,
Mminele said an e-mailed response to questions today.  South Africa’s own credit rating at Standard & Poor’s is
not under threat, and the country has “deep and liquid”
financial markets and “adequately capitalized financial
institutions, supported by a robust regulatory framework,” the
Reserve Bank and Treasury said. The country is rated BBB+, the
third-lowest investment-grade score, by S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  