-- 
South Korea’s Biggest Investor Sees Bottom for Nation’s Stocks This Week

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-08-09T07:32:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/south-korea-s-biggest-investor-sees-bottom-in-stocks-this-week.html
South Korea ’s  National Pension
Service , the nation’s biggest investor, said corporate earnings
may buffer concerns over U.S. and European debt that dragged the
 Kospi Index (KOSPI)  to its biggest six-day decline in three years.  The Kospi, which slumped 17 percent the past six days,
reached an intraday level today that was more than 20 percent
below its May 2 record. The gauge may reach a bottom this week,
Kim Hee Seok, head of the firm’s investment strategy division,
said by phone yesterday. The fund, which had 340 trillion won
($310 billion) of assets in June, plans to buy more stocks this
month than it had originally targeted, Kim Seok Joo, a spokesman
at the pension fund, said by phone today.  “We made the revision because we as a long-term investor
thought recent market sell-offs present good bargain-hunting
opportunities over the medium-to-long-term,” Kim, the
spokesman, said. National Pension is overseen by South Korea’s
welfare ministry.  The Kospi sank 3.6 percent today to its lowest close since
Sept. 9. Stocks globally have slumped the past two weeks as
manufacturing and consumer spending data showed the  U.S.
economy , which accounted for 10.7 percent of South Korea’s
exports last year, is slowing.  Standard & Poor’s  cut its rating
on  U.S. debt  by one level to AA+ on Aug. 5, citing the failure
of the political system to rein in the  U.S. budget deficit .  Market Bottom  The Kospi rallied from an intraday slump of as much as 9.9
percent today after Korea Teachers Pension, the nation’s second-
largest public pension fund, said it purchased about 70 billion
won of stocks during the recent selloff, and plans to buy more
stocks if prices fall further.  “I think we’re now at a bottom,” Chief Investment Officer
Lee Yun Kyu of the fund, which manages about 9.5 trillion won,
said by phone today.  Korea Teachers  has room to invest 300
billion won for the rest of the year, Lee said.  The Kospi fell as much as 24 percent from its May 2 record
amid mounting concerns over the strength of the global economy.
A decline of 20 percent or more signals a so-called  bear market 
to some investors.  Kospi stocks are trading at 8.9 times estimated profit, the
lowest level since November 2008, even as analysts forecast its
companies to boost per-share earnings by 51 percent in the next
12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s more than
twice the 22 percent growth anticipated for the MSCI All-Country
World Index, which measures developed and emerging-market
equities.  Limited Declines  “South Korean companies’ performance and credit quality
are not problematic,” Kim, National Pension’s investment
strategy head, said yesterday. “I believe chances of a further
steep decline in the benchmark index are limited.” He didn’t
immediately return four phone calls seeking comment today.  The National Pension Service said in June it will increase
the representation of domestic stocks to 19.3 percent of assets
in 2012 from 18 percent planned for this year.  The Kospi has fallen 12 percent this year, compared with
the MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s 15 percent slide. The Kospi’s
price-earnings ratio is the lowest in  Asia  after  Pakistan ’s
benchmark index, data compiled by Bloomberg show. MSCI’s global
index trades for 10.8 times, while the emerging-markets gauge is
at 9.7 times.  The Kospi’s percentage decline the past six days is the
steepest six-day loss since October 2008, the month after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Market Monitoring  South Korea’s Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan asked other
ministers in a meeting today to bolster the market monitoring
system, the ministry said in a statement today. The government
should try to restore market confidence, Bahk said.  “Volatility will be here for a while,” said Chu Moon Sung, a Seoul-based  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset
Management Co., which oversees $29 billion. “While measures may
come to stabilize financial markets, the key is whether the real
economy could settle back into a recovery track.”  South Korea’s industrial production expanded at the slowest
pace in nine months in June, the nation’s statistics agency
reported on July 29. The U.S. economy is heading into a
“double-dip” recession,  Nouriel Roubini , the chairman of New
York-based Roubini Global Economics LLC, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television yesterday.  Trading Halt  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  said the nation’s
financial officials need to consider what potential measures may
be needed to address turmoil in markets, according to comments
posted on his presidential website.  Program trading on Kospi shares was stopped for five
minutes today and yesterday after  Kospi 200 Index (KOSPI2)  futures fell
more than 5 percent for more than a minute,  Korea Exchange  Inc.
said. Trading of shares on the Kosdaq Index, which has more than
1,000 stocks, was also halted today and yesterday after the
index tumbled in excess of 10 percent for more than a minute,
triggering automatic curbs.  The exchange operator will keep a close eye on short
selling and arbitrage transactions, Korea Exchange said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday before markets opened, after an
emergency meeting by Chairman Kim Bong Soo and other officials.  Investors typically use short sales to capitalize on an
expected decline in the security’s price. It is the practice of
selling a security that the seller does not own but is committed
to repurchase eventually.  Foreign Investors  Overseas investors were net sellers yesterday for a sixth
day, divesting a net 1.18 trillion won of Kospi equities,
according to Koscom Corp., which provides financial data from
 Korea Exchange . Foreign investors have sold a net 3.7 trillion
won  this year  until yesterday.  South Korean stocks fell more than expected as investors
overreacted to developments abroad, said Min Sung Kee, director
general of the financial markets department at the Bank of
 Korea .  “It seems investors, mostly individual investors, are
responding excessively in so-called herd behavior,” Min said in
a telephone interview yesterday from  Seoul .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ; 