-- 
Rand Falls to 10-Week Low on Global Growth Concern; Bonds Drop

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-08-08T15:08:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/south-african-yields-rise-on-global-growth-concern-rand-falls.html
The rand fell to the lowest level in
more than 10 weeks against the dollar and  South Africa ’s 10-year
bonds dropped for a second day after the U.S. lost its top
 credit rating , fueling concern the global recovery will falter.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy tumbled for a
third day, falling as much as 2.1 percent to 7.0698 per dollar,
the weakest since May 25. It traded 1.9 percent lower at 7.0560
at 4:37 p.m. in Johannesburg. Against the euro, the rand
retreated for a fifth day, declining 1 percent to 9.9786 per
euro, the lowest since April 19, 2010.  Stocks slumped worldwide and emerging-market currencies
declined after  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the U.S. rating by one
level to AA+, prompting investors to sell riskier assets. Group
of Seven nations said they will take every action necessary to
stabilize financial markets, and the  European Central Bank 
bought Italian and Spanish government bonds today to stop the
fiscal crisis from infecting the area’s third- and fourth-
largest economies.  “Rand weakness is broad-based, which illustrates just how
it tends to under-perform most currencies in times of turmoil,”
Standard Bank Group Ltd. strategists, led by Johannesburg-based
Michael Keenan, wrote in a research note today. “Despite
assurances from G-7 leaders that they would do ‘whatever it
takes’ to calm investor fears, participants are fleeing to safe
havens such U.S. treasuries, Japanese bonds, the Swiss franc and
Japanese yen.”  South Africa remains “confident” about its projections
for economic growth and the  budget deficit  even as risks to the
global economy increased following the U.S. debt downgrade, the
National Treasury and  Reserve Bank  said in a joint statement
today. The nation’s economy is forecast to expand 3.7 percent
this year, the Reserve Bank’s Governor Gill Marcus said July 21.  The 6.75 percent government securities due 2021 weakened 15
cents to 91.390 rand, driving the yield up two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 8.049 percent.  Rising yields are “a knee-jerk reaction to the U.S.
downgrade,” Tradition Analytics researchers led by
Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw wrote in a e-mailed note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  