-- 
Airlines Roll Back Fares as U.S. Ticket Taxes Are Reinstated

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-08-09T03:19:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/southwest-pulls-back-fare-increases-on-faa-bill.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  joined  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  in rolling
back fare increases of more than 7.5 percent for most tickets
after federal taxes and fees were restored over the weekend.  Carriers including  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines ,  JetBlue
Airways Corp. (JBLU) , Frontier Airlines and Virgin America Inc. also
started returning fares to levels in place before July 22, when
the taxes lapsed, said Rick Seaney, chief executive officer of
Dallas-based travel website FareCompare.com.  “There is going to be an avalanche today,” Seaney said.
Southwest, the biggest discount carrier and the largest U.S.
airline by domestic passengers, led the way in retrenching on
fares starting last night.  Federal taxes were suspended at midnight on July 22 amid a
stalemate in Congress over funding for the Federal Aviation
Administration, costing the government $28.6 million in lost
taxes a day, and carriers raised fares by an identical amount
and pocketed the difference. Congress reached a compromise last
week to restore the funding and the FAA’s taxing authority.  “We did adjust our fares to account for the taxes being
reinstated,” Brandy King, a spokeswoman for Dallas-based
Southwest, said in an e-mail. “A large majority of our
customers will not see an increase in relation to the tax
reinstatement.”  American, JetBlue  Mike Trevino, a spokesman for Chicago-based United; Tim Smith, a spokesman for American; and JetBlue’s Alison Croyle all
said fares were lowered to reflect the reinstated taxes.  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  has rolled back the fare increase,
Michelle Mohr, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index fell 4.3 percent at 4:05
p.m. New York time, joining the rout in U.S. stocks. Tempe,
Arizona-based US Airways tumbled 10 percent for the worst
decline.  The expiration of the FAA’s revenue-raising authority last
month halted collection of a 7.5 percent sales tax on domestic
tickets and a fee of $3.70 per flight segment. Increasing base
fares by the same amount produced more revenue for airlines
without consumers seeing a difference in the total ticket price.  That translated into a fare increase of about 10 percent in
the past two weeks, or $400 million since the standoff over the
FAA bill began, estimated  Jamie Baker , a  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
analyst in New York. Like Seaney, he predicted last week that
Southwest would lead airlines in repealing the fare increase
once the taxes were reinstated.  Travel Demand  Demand for travel doesn’t appear to be strong enough to
support what would amount to a $40 or $50 price increase for
domestic tickets if airlines attempted to keep their higher
prices in place once the taxes resume, Seaney said last week.  A decline in the price of crude oil, from which  jet fuel  is
derived, is helping airlines cover expenses even if the recent
fare increase was only temporary, said Helane Becker, a Dahlman
Rose & Co. analyst in  New York . Oil fell 13 percent in the two
weeks ended Aug. 5, and extended that drop today.  “I don’t think they needed to keep these fares in place,”
she said. “They really were not in place long enough to make a
difference one way or the next.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  