-- 
South Africa’s Mines Debate Weighs on Economy, Minister Says

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-08-08T14:56:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/south-africa-s-mine-nationalization-debate-damaging-economy-minister-says.html
South Africa  is hurting its economy
by debating the nationalization of mines and should focus
instead on “adding value” to the metals and minerals it
produces, said Mineral Resources Minister Susan Shabangu.  Nationalization “led to the collapse of the Eastern bloc”
20 years ago, Shabangu said today on Johannesburg-based SAFM
radio. Boosting the value South Africa’s natural resources would
help to tackle poverty, she said.  The ruling  African National Congress  is studying
nationalization after its youth wing called for mines to be
taken over by the government. Shabangu has instead called for an
increased focus on so-called beneficiation, whereby metals and
minerals are processed or treated to raise their value before
being exported.  Both sides say their recommended course of action would
create jobs in a country where a quarter of people are
unemployed, while redistributing wealth to black citizens
disadvantaged under apartheid.  The government will increase efforts to boost black
involvement in mining, Shabangu said today. The industry hasn’t
fully complied with rules aimed at reallocating wealth and its
progress in employing more black people will be monitored more
regularly, she said.  Wealth Distribution  While white men still dominate top management and earn more
than black people, nationalization wouldn’t help to reallocate
wealth,  Cyril Ramaphosa , a member of the ANC’s highest decision-
making body and chairman of mines investor  Shanduka Group , said
in the Johannesburg-based Sunday Times yesterday. ANC Treasurer-
General Mathews Phosa and Public Enterprises Minister  Malusi
Gigaba  last week also spoke out against nationalization.  South Africa, which has set up a state mining company, is
consolidating government-controlled mining interests and will
propose a final state-ownership plan to the Cabinet, Shabangu
said.  The group set up by the ANC to study nationalization will
probably complete its assessment around July or August next
year, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  