-- 
South Australia’s Premier Rann Plans to Step Down on Oct. 20

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-08-08T03:04:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/south-australia-s-premier-rann-to-step-down.html
South Australia  Premier Mike Rann,
the nation’s longest serving Labor party leader, said he plans
to leave his position on Oct. 20.  The premier announced the date of his departure during a
televised news conference today in Adelaide during which he
endorsed Education Minister Jay Weatherill as his successor. The
October departure is earlier than plans announced by Rann last
week while he was traveling in  India .  He will remain as premier for the time being to help
oversee discussions with  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  on a proposed
expansion of the Olympic Dam mine, Rann said today, adding that
talks will continue next week.  Rann, once the nation’s most popular state premier, has
faced falling support in South Australia after 17 years as state
Labor leader and nine as premier. His approval rating was 31
percent between April and June, down from 43 percent in March,
2010, according to a Newspoll survey published in the Australian
newspaper on June 21.  The survey of 874 people gave the Labor party 46 percent
support compared with 54 percent for the Liberal opposition. The
poll had a margin of error of 3.4 percentage points.  BHP, the world’s largest mining company, said in May that
it expects the government to decide on its plan to expand the
copper, uranium and gold mine by the second half of the year.  Rann said last week he would step down once he completes
negotiations with Melbourne-based BHP.  The company is “confident” of getting government
approvals for the expansion of the project, which contains the
world’s largest uranium deposit and the fourth-biggest copper
and gold resource, Dean Dalla Valle, president of BHP’s uranium
customer sector group division, said May 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  