-- 
Stick With U.S. Stocks After S&P Cut, Barclays’s Olsen Says

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-08-08T14:12:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/stick-with-u-s-stocks-after-downgrade-barclays-s-olsen-says.html
U.S. stocks are attractive, even
after  Standard & Poor’s  stripped the world’s largest economy of
its top  credit rating  for the first time, because the companies
are inexpensive and have global reach,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said.  “Don’t join the crowd and try to pile out,” Hans Olsen,
head of Americas investment strategy at Barclays Wealth, said in
a telephone interview yesterday. The unit of the London-based
bank oversees 170 billion pounds ($279 billion). “Valuations
and earnings power are still there, that’s for sure, and those
who can should hold with their equity positions,” he said.  S&P cut the nation’s AAA credit rating for the first time,
criticizing lawmakers for failing to reduce spending or raise
revenue enough to reduce record budget deficits. The  S&P 500
Index (SPX)  fell 2.3 percent to 1,172.19 as of 10 a.m. in New York,
following a two-week rout that dragged the benchmark gauge down
11 percent and erased its 2011 gain.  U.S. stocks won’t be impaired by the cut because companies
can expand their profit margins as they access global markets
even as the economy slows, the New York-based strategist said.
Investors aren’t likely to abandon the country’s equity market
because stocks are inexpensive using price-earnings ratios.  “American companies have earnings power because they have
depth and reach of where their products are sold and they have
margins because they’ve been absolutely laser-like in their
focus on margins,” he said. “Those revenues translate into
earnings, and the price that you pay for those revenues and
earnings is on the lower end of what it’s been over 10 years.”  Cheaper Stocks  The S&P 500’s valuation has dropped to 13.1 times profits
in the last year, the lowest level since the month the  bull
market  began in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Concern about weakening economic data has overshadowed an
earnings season that has seen per-share profits grow 18 percent
and sales increase 13 percent at companies in the measure that
reported second-quarter results since July 11.  “Longer term, the global economy is still growing, albeit
slowly,” Olsen said. “This probably will cause companies to be
even more ruthless in their cost-cutting to protect profit
margins -- and as a result, one could remain constructive on
profitability.”  Barclays is reaffirming its “overweight” rating on
developed-market equities “for sure,” said Olsen, who was
hired from JPMorgan Chase & Co. last month as the top Americas
strategist, a new position managing a team of strategists for
the region. Olsen oversees the creation of investment strategies
for wealthy clients in the Americas and reports to  Aaron Gurwitz , the chief investment officer for Barclays Wealth.  ‘Stay In The Ring’  “They’re cheap and they’re supported by their earnings,”
Olsen said. “Even if the earnings were to get a bit of a
haircut, these valuations still support those earnings.”  Barclays is reaffirming its recommendations, although the
rating cut will boost stock-market volatility, he said.
Investors have had “a dreadful two weeks” and some investors
who have “bad-news fatigue” have decided to sell stocks
because they want to wait until markets calm before investing
again.  “Short-term, it’s going to be like being a boxer in the
ring: You’ll be jabbed and crossed by this information,” he
said. “The key will be to just stay in the ring.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  New York  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  