-- 
Stocks Could Rebound From Downgrade Plunge, U.S. Equity Strategists Say

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-08-08T15:40:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/stocks-could-rebound-from-downgrade-plunge-u-s-equity-strategists-say.html
America’s debt downgrade won’t keep
the nation’s stocks down in the long term, and investors should
consider buying large companies and dividend-paying stocks,
according to U.S. equity strategists.  Bigger companies will do better than smaller ones because
they hold so much cash and will be viewed as safer, according to
an Aug. 7  Citigroup Inc. (C)  note. Investors should also look for
stocks that pay dividends as the world’s largest economy slow,
Oppenheimer & Co. wrote in a note today.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
said that while the next two weeks may be “turbulent” for
equities, the overall impact will be minimal.  Standard & Poor’s lowered the U.S. long-term rating one
level to AA+, from AAA, after markets closed on Aug. 5 while
keeping the outlook “negative,” citing less confidence that
Congress will end Bush-era tax cuts or tackle entitlements.
 Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service still hold a AAA
rating. Some strategists say that while the downgrade may hurt
the economy, last week’s 7.2 percent drop in the  Standard &
Poor’s  500 Index shows equity investors were anticipating it.  “The medium- to long-term effects of the U.S. sovereign
downgrade are minimal, even as the short impact could be
turbulent,”  Thomas Lee , JPMorgan’s equity strategist in  New
York , wrote in an e-mailed note.  S&P 500  Performance  The S&P 500 fell 3.7 percent to 1,155.64 at 10:35 a.m. in
New York today, extending its decline since July 22 to 14
percent. The index’s 4.8 percent tumble on Aug. 4 marked its
biggest daily drop since February 2009.  The downgrade may spook investors, causing sentiment to
grow more bearish in the short term, strategists at Barclays
Plc, Citigroup and JPMorgan said. Rising cash levels relative to
debt and earnings growth should push the S&P 500 higher by the
end of the year, they said.  Barry Knapp, the New York-based head of U.S. equity
strategy at  Barclays Plc (BARC) , said he may lower his 1,450 year-end
target if sales in the back-to-school season are disappointing,
signaling a hit to confidence that may impair  consumer spending .
Investors should buy companies most-tied to the economy, since
they will benefit first when stocks rebound, he said.  ‘Overblown’ Recession Fears  “The fears of a global recession are way overblown and
that the actual effect of a downgrade is very little in the
short run,” Knapp said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu. “When clients have
asked me, ‘Should I be moving into defensive high-yielders?’ my
answer is no.” He said, “Cyclicals will lead the rebound so
you run the risk of whipsawing yourself if you go to defensives
here.”  While  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  lowered its year-end target
for the S&P 500 to 1,400 from 1,450, Oppenheimer’s New York-
based chief investment strategist,  Brian Belski , held his 1,325
estimate, saying dividend-paying stocks are an “excellent
strategy for the current market environment.”  Companies in the index have put money aside and paid down
debt after the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression. Cash on corporate balance sheets excluding
financial, utility and transportation stocks represented about
9.7 percent of market value as of March 31, up from the 20-year
average of 6.7 percent, S&P data show. Those large companies
with strong balance sheets may benefit in a risk-averse
environment, according to Citigroup and Morgan Stanley.  ‘Attractive’ Cash Levels  “Given attractive corporate cash levels, one could see
large well capitalized companies benefit from money flows
seeking respectable returns with relative safety,” wrote  Tobias Levkovich , Citigroup’s chief U.S. equity strategist in New York.
“From an equity market perspective, this could augur well for
larger market cap entities.”  Stocks tied to the economy have plunged more than consumer
staple companies as investors speculated the world’s largest
economy may be faltering. The  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Cyclical Index lost
16 percent from July 22 through Aug. 5, while the Morgan Stanley
Consumer Index is down 8.6 percent in the same period.  “The downgrade could be a significant drag on U.S. growth
in 2012 if it prompts U.S. politicians to implement all the
fiscal tightening measures that are scheduled,”  Andrew Garthwaite , a London-based strategist at Credit Suisse AG, wrote
in a note today. “This combined with other cyclical risks
reinforces our underweight of cyclicals and overweight of
defensives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  