-- 
Strauss-Kahn Sued by Hotel Housekeeper for ‘Violent and Deplorable Acts’

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-08-09T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/strauss-kahn-accuser-files-lawsuit-for-damages-over-alleged-sex-assault.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the former
International Monetary Fund chief criminally charged with
sexually assaulting a hotel housekeeper, was sued by the woman
for what her lawyer called “violent and deplorable acts.”  Nafissatou Diallo, who emigrated to the U.S. from Guinea,
filed the complaint yesterday in New York State Supreme Court in
the Bronx, where she lived at the time of the incident. The
criminal case against Strauss-Kahn, 62, a onetime French
presidential hopeful, is pending in state court in  Manhattan .  Diallo, who revealed her identity in media interviews last
month, was working at the Sofitel hotel in midtown Manhattan May
14 when she entered Strauss-Kahn’s suite, where the incident
took place. Strauss-Kahn, whose lawyer has said the encounter
wasn’t forcible, was arrested and charged with sexual assault
and attempted rape.  “Believing that he was immune from the laws of this
country, defendant Strauss-Kahn intentionally, brutally and
violently sexually assaulted Ms. Diallo and in the process
humiliated, degraded, violated and robbed Ms. Diallo of her
dignity as a woman,” her lawyers said in the complaint.  The suit seeks unspecified monetary damages for physical
and psychological harm, damage to Diallo’s reputation, career,
and mental anguish, for the assault, battery, intentional
infliction of emotional distress and false imprisonment.
Strauss-Kahn has pleaded not guilty to criminal charges and
denied any wrongdoing.  ‘Vindicate Her Rights’  “Ms. Diallo has filed her lawsuit now because she wants to
vindicate her rights and hold Dominique Strauss-Kahn accountable
for the violent and deplorable acts committed against her,”
defense lawyer  Kenneth Thompson  said yesterday in an interview.
“We expect that the District Attorney will stand by this
victim, because to abandon her would also be an abandonment of
other women who are going to be raped or sexually assaulted in 
the future.”  The Manhattan District Attorney’s office is still
investigating the criminal case. Strauss-Kahn, who remains free
while he awaits trial, is scheduled to return to court Aug. 23.  On July 1, prosecutors told a judge that the criminal case
was hurt by Diallo’s “substantial credibility issues,” which
included lying to a grand jury about her actions immediately
after the alleged attack as well as regarding details of her
life history.  It’s unusual for such a civil suit to be filed before the
criminal case has been resolved, said New York attorney Paul Callan, who isn’t involved in the case.  ‘Fearful’ of Dismissal  “Thompson is fearful the criminal case is going to be
dropped so he’s throwing out the rule book,” said Callan, who
represented the estate of Nicole Brown Simpson in a lawsuit
against former professional football player  O.J. Simpson .  Simpson was found liable for his ex-wife’s death after
being acquitted on charges of murdering her and her friend Ron
Goldman.  According to Diallo’s civil complaint, a naked Strauss-Kahn
appeared in the Sofitel luxury suite and “charged at Ms.
Diallo, who was startled that anyone was in the room and tried
to leave.”  He grabbed her breasts, closed the door of the hotel room,
and pushed her into a bedroom where he tried to force her to
perform oral sex, according to the complaint. She struggled to
free herself and pleaded with him to stop, her lawyers said.  Blocked Her Exit  Strauss-Kahn, undeterred, blocked her exit and pushed her
down the hallway toward the back of the suite, according to the
filing. He pulled up her dress, pulled down and tore her
pantyhose and grabbed her vagina with so much force that, for
several days after, she felt pain whenever she urinated, the
complaint stated.  Strauss-Kahn forced Diallo to the back of the suite and
down on her knees outside of a bathroom at the end of the
corridor, according to the lawsuit.  “Strauss-Kahn violently grabbed the back of Ms. Diallo’s
head, shoved his penis into her mouth against her will and then
forcibly held the back of her head with his hands as he thrusted
his penis back and forth in her mouth,” according to the
complaint. Strauss-Kahn “moaned until he ejaculated inside her
mouth,” her lawyers said in the filing.  After the attack, Diallo was emotionally distraught and
hotel employees saw that she was shaking, spitting repeatedly
and gesturing that she wanted to throw up, according to the
complaint.  The suit also seeks to introduce other alleged crimes by
Strauss-Kahn involving purported sexual assaults on women in
other hotels or apartments used by him around the world.  Leaks to Media  The suit states that because of leaks to the news media,
some people believe Diallo “made up the sexual assault in order
to shake down” Strauss-Kahn for money. She has been vilified in
news reports around the world and called a “professional con-
artist,” Thompson wrote in the filing.  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s New York Post “assaulted her reputation” by
running articles that falsely stated she is a “prostitute” and
the “infamous Sofitel maid/hooker” who was “turning tricks”
while in the protective custody of prosecutors, according to the
complaint. Diallo sued the New York Post for libel in the same
Bronx court last month.  Proceeding with a civil case that seeks monetary damages
may harm the criminal case, Callan said.  “It undermines the credibility of a victim whose
credibility is already very shaken,” he said. “Prosecutors
will not like this at all.”  District Attorney  Erin Duggan, a spokeswoman for Manhattan District Attorney
Cyrus Vance Jr., declined to comment on the lawsuit. She said
the criminal case was “continuing.”  It is easier to prove a civil case than a criminal case.
The “preponderance of the evidence” is all that is necessary
in a civil case, whereas criminal jurors must be convinced
“beyond a reasonable doubt.”  “If there’s a little more evidence on the side of one
party than the other, that party wins,” Callan said.  Callan said he thinks a Strauss-Kahn civil attorney will
seek an immediate deposition of the victim.  “There will be a lot more to cross-examine her on,” he
said.  “We have maintained from the beginning that the motivation
of Mr. Thompson and his client was to make ‎money,” Strauss-
Kahn’s criminal defense attorneys,  Benjamin Brafman  and  William Taylor , said in an e-mailed statement. “The filing of this
lawsuit ends any doubt on that question. The civil suit has no
merit and Mr. ‎Strauss-Kahn will defend it vigorously.‎”  Bronx Advantage  A lawsuit filed in the Bronx, as opposed to in Manhattan,
may work to the housekeeper’s advantage, Callan said.  The Bronx is probably “the best jurisdiction for her
because of the heavy minority and immigrant populations in the
borough which would probably be more sympathetic to her than to
Strauss-Kahn,” the lawyer said.  Even if Diallo wins the lawsuit, Callan said, it may not be
easy to recover any damages.  “Strauss-Kahn’s assets might not be so easy to attach,
even if you get a verdict against him,” said Callan. “A lot of
the money is in his wife’s name and a lot is in  France .”  Prosecutors revealed that the criminal case may be in
jeopardy more than a month ago. Diallo stated in a 2004
application for asylum that she had been gang-raped in  Guinea ,
prosecutors said in a June 30 letter to defense attorneys filed
with the court. She had “cried and appeared markedly
distraught” in two interviews when recounting the rape,
according to prosecutors.  Accuser’s Admission  She admitted in June that the rape hadn’t happened,
prosecutors said.  Diallo also changed her story about what happened
immediately after the incident at the Sofitel, according to the
letter. Diallo, who told the grand jury she had fled to a main
hallway after the attack, later said she proceeded to clean a
nearby room and then returned to Strauss-Kahn’s room before
reporting the incident, according to the letter.  Diallo’s lawyer said in the complaint yesterday that
“contrary to some reports, at no point and time did Ms. Diallo
go back and clean” any other hotel room.  A person familiar with the matter said in July that, in a
translated summary of taped conversations with a friend
imprisoned in  Arizona , the housekeeper said in her native
Fulani, “Don’t worry. This guy has money. I know what I’m
doing.” The person didn’t want to be identified because the
information wasn’t public.  Diallo, along with her lawyer and prosecutors, listened to
the tapes together on July 27, Thompson said. Thompson told
reporters that Diallo’s comments had been “merged together”
and mischaracterized.  The civil case is Diallo v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-307065, New
York State Supreme Court (Bronx County); The criminal case is
People v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-02526, New York State Supreme Court
(New York County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York State Supreme Court
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  