-- 
Sweden’s Borg Rejects Austerity as Crisis May Hit Surplus

-- B y   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-08-08T13:38:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/sweden-s-borg-rejects-austerity-as-crisis-may-hit-surplus.html
Swedish tax payers won’t have to face
fiscal austerity because of the global market turbulence even as
the crisis has the potential to reduce budget surpluses in the
largest Nordic economy, Finance Minister Anders Borg said.  “Sweden has a starting position of strength compared with
many others with our strong public finances and where our
 exchange rate  can weaken, as it has, and act as a buffer for the
economy,” he said today in Stockholm. “One thing we can be
entirely clear about -- and this we’re rather alone in being
able to say -- is that Swedish households won’t need to prepare
for austerity in the form of tax increases or spending cuts.”  European leaders, led by the  European Central Bank , are
trying to contain a debt crisis that started in  Greece  last year
and now threatens to envelope Italy and Spain.  Standard & Poor’s 
on Aug. 5 cut the U.S. one level to AA+ while keeping the
outlook at “negative” amid concern over spending and a lack of
 tax revenue . Sweden’s benchmark OMX index is down 20 percent
this year as stock markets tumble globally, threatening to
derail  consumer spending  and economic growth.  “It’s a little too early to draw conclusions on how this
will affect the Swedish economy,” Borg said. “We haven’t yet
gathered all the information for the budget. But the normal
situation is that weaker growth does impact public finances,
while we foresee a significant budget surplus next year.”  Swedish economic growth accelerated to a seasonally
adjusted 1 percent in the second quarter, from 0.8 percent in
the first three months of the year. The economy expanded 5.7
percent last year, the most in the European Union, as exports,
which account for about half of output, recovered from the
financial crisis. Public finances will show surpluses of 0.3
percent of gross domestic product this year, 1.8 percent 2012
and 2.8 percent in 2013, the government estimated April 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim McLaughlin in  Stockholm  at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  