-- 
Swiss Franc Strengthens to Records Versus Dollar and Euro on Safety Bids

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-08-08T16:16:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/swiss-franc-strengthens-to-another-record-versus-the-dollar-on-safety-bid.html
The Swiss franc strengthened to a
record against the dollar as concern that policy makers are
failing to stem the European debt crisis, coupled with a U.S.
credit-rating downgrade, boosted demand for the safest assets.  The franc extended its year-to-date gains versus all of its
16 major peers tracked by Bloomberg. It stayed higher against
the euro even as the  European Central Bank  was said to buy
Italian and Spanish government bonds to tame surging borrowing
costs. The Swiss cabinet planned to discuss the strength of the
currency during an extraordinary session today after the  Swiss
National Bank  last week cut  interest rates  in an attempt to curb
its advance.  “The Swiss franc is the gauge of how nervous the market
is,” said Jane Foley, a senior foreign-exchange strategist at
Rabobank International in London. On today’s ECB buying, “we
all know that doesn’t solve the European debt crisis. It’s just
buying time and it remains the case that the politicians haven’t
convinced the market.”  The franc advanced 1.3 percent to 75.73 centimes per dollar
as of 4:33 p.m. in London, after appreciating to a record 74.85
centimes. It strengthened 1.8 percent to 1.0759 per euro.  The Swiss government was meeting today amid concern the
strength of the franc may hamper economic growth and cramp
exports, which account for more than half the economy.
 Switzerland ’s central bank unexpectedly cut rates on Aug. 3 to
fight currency gains that have seen the franc surge 19 percent
against a basket of nine developed-market peers this year,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  Central Bank Measures  The SNB “knew last week that they were swimming against
the tide, and unfortunately that still remains the case,” said
Foley. “The next few weeks and months are going to be crucial
for the euro and throughout that period most investors aren’t
going to want to dump their Swiss positions.”  The ECB today bought Italian and Spanish government bonds,
according to people with knowledge of the transactions. It also
bought Irish and Portuguese bonds, said two of the people, who
asked not to be identified because the deals are confidential. A
press officer for the ECB declined to comment.  Italian 10-year yields dropped 81 basis points to 5.28
percent, while the yield on Spanish debt of a similar maturity
slid 88 basis points to 5.18 percent.  Trusting the ECB  The debt purchases are unlikely to encourage investors to
sell the franc, or alternative haven currency, the Japanese yen,
according to  Ray Farris , chief strategist for Asia-Pacific fixed
income and global head of foreign-exchange strategy at Credit
Suisse Group AG in  Singapore .  “Both may drop initially in response to new ECB
intervention,” he wrote in an e-mailed report today. “But we
fear that it will take some time for the market and particularly
the Japanese and the Swiss themselves to trust European policy
action sufficiently to give up wanting the Swiss franc and yen
as insurance policies against policy fatigue or mistakes.”  Swiss unemployment remained at the lowest in 2 1/2 years in
July as companies boosted their workforce to meet global export
demand. The jobless rate held at 3 percent when adjusted for
seasonal swings from June, the State Secretariat for Economic
Affairs in Bern said in an e-mailed statement today. That’s the
lowest since January 2009 and in line with the median forecast
of 11 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 