-- 
Syria Crackdown Spurs Growing Censure

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-08-08T20:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/syria-s-rising-deaths-spur-condemnation-as-arab-states-recall-ambassadprs.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
faced renewed pressure to end his government’s deadly five-month
crackdown against protesters after three Arab countries withdrew
their ambassadors from Damascus and Turkey said it was preparing
to send a “decisive” message to its neighbor.  Saudi Arabia ,  Kuwait  and Bahrain recalled their envoys
yesterday, a day after Syrian troops backed by tanks killed more
than 100 people in assaults on towns across the country.
Activists estimate the death toll at more than 2,200 since
protests began in mid-March, inspired by the revolts that ousted
the leaders of Tunisia and Egypt. The  Arab League  and the Gulf
Cooperation Council condemned Assad’s policies, urging him to
meet demands for political change.  Arab criticism of Syria “could have an impact on the Assad
regime, it makes it increasingly isolated,” Chris Phillips, a
London-based analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit, said in
a telephone interview. “That will increase the leverage that
Saudi and  Turkey  have over Syria and might pressure it into
making concessions.”  Turkey will relate its views in a “decisive” manner to
Syrian officials during a meeting today, Turkish Prime Minister
Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Aug. 6. His country had “reached the
last stretch of patience” with its neighbor, he said. Turkey’s
Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  will meet Assad in Damascus
today, said an official, who declined to be identified because
of ministry guidelines.  Gulf States  The GCC, which called on Aug. 6 for “an immediate
cessation to all acts of violence,” will also meet soon to
discuss Syria, Kuwaiti Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed Al-Sabah
said yesterday. The group comprises the six Sunni Muslim-ruled
monarchies of  Bahrain , Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, the  United Arab
Emirates  and Saudi Arabia, which is a rival for regional power
with Shiite Muslim-led  Iran , Syria’s main ally.  Saudi Arabia “demands an end to the killing machine and
bloodshed, and asks for reason to prevail before it is too
late,”  King Abdullah  said in a statement to announce the recall
of his ambassador.  Many countries “will interpret King Abdullah’s remarks as
permission for stronger action against Syria,” said Dawood al-
Shirian, a political analyst and editor-in-chief of
Alarabiya.net.  Tank Assaults  Syrian forces have launched attacks in towns and cities
including Hama and Deir al-Zour in central Syria, as well Maarat
al-Numan in the northern province of Idlib, in the past week.
Tanks, machine guns and armored vehicles were used in the
assault on Deir al-Zour, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab
Organization for Human Rights, said by telephone from Damascus.  Activists say demonstrations on the past three Fridays have
drawn at least 1 million people, many now invigorated by the
Muslim holy month of Ramadan. In Syria, as in other mostly
Islamic countries, family and community groups gather to break
the daily Ramadan fast after sunset, and people attend prayers
at mosques more often than at other times.  Ahmed el-Tayeb, the grand imam of Al-Azhar mosque in Cairo,
Sunni Islam’s highest seat of learning, said in a statement that
the situation “has gone too far,” and called for an end to
“this Arab and Islamic tragedy,” according to  Egypt ’s state-
run Middle East  News Agency .  “The widespread oppression, violence, arrests and
intimidation that the Syrian people are subjected to represent a
human tragedy that cannot be accepted,” MENA cited the imam as
saying yesterday. “Blood only fuels revolutions.”  Hama Withdrawal  Syria said its army began withdrawing from the central city
of Hama, a focus of anti-government protests, after
“accomplishing” its mission of restoring normality there,
state-run SANA news agency said. Assad appointed a new defense
minister, Dawoud Rajhah, Al Arabiya television reported
yesterday, without saying how it obtained the information.  Assad, who came to power in 2000, has blamed the protests
on foreign-inspired plots. More than 500 members of the security
forces have been killed,  according to  the government.  The  United Nations Security Council  issued a statement Aug.
3, expressing “grave concern” at the deaths and human-rights
abuses in  Syria . Stronger action, such as a resolution
condemning the crackdown, has been backed by the U.S. and its
European allies, and blocked by countries including  Russia .  The U.S. was “heartened” by Saudi Arabia’s withdrawal of
its ambassador from Syria, said State Department spokesman Mark
Toner. The message to Assad is that he “has fewer and fewer
friends,” Toner told reporters in  Washington  yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 