-- 
Syria Deaths Spur Growing World Condemnation

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-08-08T13:41:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/syria-s-mounting-deaths-spur-condemnation-as-saudi-arabia-pulls-ambassador.html
Syria ’s escalating crackdown on
protesters left at least 100 people dead yesterday, according to
activists, as it draws growing condemnation from the Arab world.  King Abdullah recalled Saudi Arabia’s ambassador to Syria
early today, saying the violence is unacceptable, further
isolating President Bashar al-Assad’s government. The Kuwaiti
and Bahraini foreign ministers then announced the recall of
their envoys from Damascus. Kuwaiti Foreign Minister Sheikh
Mohammed Al-Sabah told reporters today that the Gulf Cooperation
Council will meet soon to discuss Syria.  After days of tank attacks in towns and cities that
continued today in Maarat al-Numan, there are few signs that
Assad is preparing an exit. Equally, there has been no loss of
momentum by protesters. Activists saying the past three Fridays
have drawn at least 1 million to the streets, now invigorated by
the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. They estimate the death toll
at more than 2,200 since protests began in mid-March, inspired
by the revolts that ousted the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt .  “The regime in Syria has played all of its cards and now
we are seeing a quantum leap in terms of the levels of
repression,” said Peter Harling, a Damascus-based analyst with
the  International Crisis Group , a conflict-resolution advisory
organization. “You had four months of mismanagement of this
crisis by the regime with no progress.”  In Syria, as in other mostly Islamic countries, family and
community groups gather to break the daily Ramadan fast after
sunset, and people attend mosque more often than at other times.  ‘Killing Machine’  Saudi Arabia “demands an end to the killing machine and
bloodshed, and asks for reason to prevail before it is too
late,” King Abdullah said in a statement to announce the
recalling of his ambassador. “Syria’s future lies between only
two options: Either it chooses wisdom willingly, or drifts into
the depths of turmoil and loss, may God forbid.”  Sunni Muslim-ruled  Saudi Arabia  is a rival for regional
power with Shiite-led  Iran , Syria’s main ally.  The  Arab League  and the GCC condemned Assad’s policies this
month, calling for “an immediate cessation to all acts of
violence,” and urged him to meet demands for political change.  As well as killing at least 100 protesters yesterday,
security forces arrested hundreds more, Ammar Qurabi of the
National Organization for Human Rights in Syria said in a
telephone interview. The violence took place in the eastern city
of Deir al-Zour, in the central province of Homs and in the
northern province of Idlib, Qurabi said.  Tank Assaults  Tanks, machine guns and armored vehicles were used in the
assault on Deir al-Zour, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab
Organization for Human Rights, said by phone from Damascus.
Maarat al-Numan, in Idlib province, was under attack by about 50
tanks today, he said.  Saudi Arabia’s criticism of Assad doesn’t reflect
enthusiasm for the Syrian opposition, said  Paul Salem , director
of the  Carnegie Endowment for International Peace’s   Middle East
Center  in Beirut.  The Gulf kingdom would “prefer the revolt would go away,”
he said. “Things have gotten so bad in Syria that being quiet
about it is no longer tolerable for Arab public opinion.”  Khalid Rashid, a witness from Deir al-Zour, told  Al Jazeera 
television that tanks shelled mosques and houses and fired
randomly in the city, and that snipers shot at any moving object
in the streets.  Shooting at Demonstrators  Police also fired at demonstrations that began after sunset
yesterday in Damascus, the town of Sanamin in south Syria and
the port of Latakia, according to Al Jazeera and Al Arabiya
television.  King Abdullah ’s intervention shows that “the noose is
tightening around Bashar,” said Jamal Khashoggi, a former
editor-in-chief of Saudi Arabia’s Al Watan newspaper. Saudi
officials have been urging Assad to stop the violence and “were
dismayed by the response of the Syrians, that they are
confronting armed gangs,” he said.  Assad, who came to power in 2000, has blamed the protests
on foreign-inspired plots. More than 500 members of the security
forces have been killed, Deputy Foreign Minister Fayssal Mekdad
told  India’s News X channel .  The  United Nations Security Council  issued a statement Aug.
3, expressing “grave concern” at the deaths and human-rights
abuses in Syria. Stronger action, such as a resolution
condemning the crackdown, has been backed by the U.S. and its
European allies, and blocked by countries including  Russia .  Italy recalled its ambassador to Syria on Aug. 2 to protest
the “horrible repression” and urged other European countries
to do the same.  ‘Stronger Action’  Many countries, including those in the west, “will
interpret King Abdullah’s remarks as permission for stronger
action against Syria,” said Dawood al-Shirian, a Saudi analyst
and editor-in-chief of Alarabiya.net.  Economic sanctions, possibly against Syria’s oil
production, remain the way “to make clear to Assad that he has
to stop the violence and fundamentally must resign,” Ruprecht Polenz, a member of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s party who heads
the German parliament’s Foreign Affairs Committee, told
Deutschlandradio in an interview today.  U.S. Ambassador to Syria  Robert Ford  told senators at his
confirmation hearing on  Capitol Hill  Aug. 1 that unilateral U.S.
sanctions “don’t have much bite” because there is so little
trade between the two countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in  Riyadh , Saudi Arabia, at   dabunasr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 