-- 
U.K.’s Rating May Depend on Osborne’s Cuts

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-08-08T11:33:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/u-k-s-rating-may-depend-on-osborne-s-cuts.html
The U.K.’s ability to keep its AAA
credit rating after the U.S. was downgraded may depend on the
government sticking to its plan to cut the deficit even as the
recovery falters, economists said.  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne today hailed the
“credibility” of his plan for Britain’s biggest fiscal squeeze
since World War II. That contrasts with U.S. arguments on the
debt limit, which  Standard & Poor’s  said showed the
“effectiveness, stability, and predictability of American
policymaking and political institutions have weakened.”  “The U.K. will hold its AAA because the chancellor has no
intention of scaling back his deficit plan,” said Nick Parsons,
head of research at National Australia Bank in London. “Any
formal change in stance would lead to a downgrade.”  S&P, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings have all
assigned the U.K. the top grade with stable outlooks, indicating
a change soon isn’t likely. It’s a contrast with France, which
may be vulnerable to a downgrade after S&P lowered the U.S. to
AA+ from AAA on Aug. 5.  France is the most costly AAA country to protect against
default. Credit default swaps on  France  trade at 153.6 basis
points, more than double the U.K.’s 77.5. Spain is at 360.3
basis points and Italy at 333.8 basis points.  A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a swap protecting
$10 million of debt.  ‘Bullish’  U.K. bonds rose today, pushing the yield on 10-year gilts
down 1 basis point to 2.68 percent as of 11:53 a.m. in London.
The premium on the debt over German bunds narrowed to 28.3 basis
points from 34.1 basis points on Aug. 5.  Andy Chaytor , a rates strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, advises investors to “stay bullish” on U.K. bonds.  “The only way this is wrong is if the commitment to fiscal
austerity wavers,” he said in an e-mailed note today. “There
are no signs of this at all.”  The government plans to eliminate Britain’s structural
budget deficit by 2015. Osborne wrote in the Daily Telegraph
newspaper today that the U.S. rating cut and  Europe ’s debt
crisis are a “vindication” of his efforts and show that
governments can “earn credibility.”  S&P cut the U.S. rating after criticizing lawmakers for
failing to do enough to reduce the deficit and left the grade
with a negative outlook. Lawmakers agreed Aug. 2 to raise the
nation’s debt ceiling and to make $2.4 trillion in spending cuts
over the next 10 years, less than the $4 trillion S&P said was
needed. Moody’s and Fitch affirmed their ratings that day.  Rating Scare  The U.K. has benefited from political will to cut the
deficit and ignore the criticism of voters and opposition
politicians. It suffered a credit-rating scare in 2009, when S&P
lowered the outlook to “negative.” The outlook was restored to
“stable” in October 2010 after the coalition government showed
“a high degree of cohesion in putting the U.K.’s public
finances onto what we view to be a more sustainable footing,”
S&P said.  As the government cuts spending, the  Bank of England  is
setting aside concern about inflation that’s more than double
its 2 percent target to aid the economy. It held its benchmark
 interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent this month, and
Governor  Mervyn King  will present the bank’s new economic
forecasts on Aug. 10.  ‘Plan A’  “The difficult decisions in terms of spending cuts have
still to come through, and it remains to be seen if the economic
and political circumstances over the next few years are
supportive of those cuts,” said  Simon Hayes , an economist at
 Barclays Capital  in London. “A question mark over the U.K.’s
rating is likely to be there for some years.”  Vince Cable, U.K. business secretary and a member of the
Liberal Democrats, the minority coalition party, affirmed his
commitment to the budget plans after the U.S. downgrade.  “Well it isn’t  George Osborne ’s strategy, it is our
government’s strategy, that we work together on and we share,”
Cable told the  BBC  on Aug. 6.  The opposition  Labour Party  has challenged the plans,
saying they’ve sacrificed growth.  Ed Balls , who speaks on
Treasury matters for Labour, said yesterday that “by trying to
go too far and too fast to bring down the deficit, Mr. Osborne
choked off last year’s recovery.”  Economic growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the second quarter
from 0.5 percent in the previous three months. The National
Institute for Economic and Social Research cut its 2011 growth
forecast to 1.3 percent from 1.4 percent last week.  “With the euro zone looking messy and the U.S. in a mess
it puts the U.K. in a better light,” said  Alan Clarke , chief
U.K. economist at  Scotia Capital  in  London . “Osborne has a
right to be smug but not to be complacent. We’re not growing
much and public finances haven’t improved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  