-- 
U.K. NHS, Hurricane Patent, Berkshire Hathaway: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-08-08T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/u-k-nhs-hurricane-patent-berkshire-hathaway-intellectual-property.html
The U.K.’s  National Health Service 
considers patents for diagnostics and genes “unacceptable,
unenforceable and detrimental to the delivery of patient
services” and is deliberately ignoring them, the U.K.’s
Financial Times  reported .  At a meeting of the U.K.’s Human Genetics Commission,
 Michael Hopkins  of the  Science Policy Research Unit  at the
 University of Sussex  said health-care systems throughout  Europe 
have similar policies, according to the Financial Times.  To date, Hopkins said, patent holders haven’t turned to
litigation to enforce these patents, and “many companies would
shy away from suing a hospital,” the Financial Times reported.  Because of the National Health System’s attitude toward
patents, the U.K. “is one of the worst” countries to operate
in, said Berwyn Clarke of that country’s  Lab21  diagnostics
company, according to the Financial Times.  Patent Issued on New Method of Measuring Hurricane Intensity  A scientists from a federal research lab in  Florida  is one
of two inventors issued a patent on a new hurricane-intensity
scale.  Patent 7,970,543, issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office June 28, covers a method of predicting the destructive
potential of hurricanes based on the total amount of kinetic
energy, rather than on wind speed alone.  The new scale looks at the effects of a hurricane on
coastal communities through wind, storm surges and wave damage.  According to the patent, after Hurricane Katrina’s damage
to Louisiana and  Mississippi  in 2005, scientists began looking
at tropical cyclone intensity and its relevance to destructive
potential. The U.S. avoided damage from major hurricanes last
year. Katrina caused about $45 billion in insured losses after
striking the  Gulf Coast .  Michael Powell of Coconut Grove, Florida, one of two
inventors listed on the patent,  told the Florida Keys Reporter 
that there were hopes “these new scales would do a better job
of showing the risk of a hurricane before it makes landfall.”
He’s with the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration ’s
Atlantic and Meteorological Laboratory.  His co-inventor, Timothy A. Reinhold of Tampa, Florida, is
senior vice president of research and chief engineer with the
 Insurance Institute for Business and Home Safety , a non-profit
organization, according to the Florida newspaper.  The patent is assigned to the U.S. government. The
application for the patent was filed in March 2008 with the
assistance of Washington’s  Novak Druce & Quigg LLP .  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Berkshire Hathaway Unit Sued Over ‘Juno’ Mark for Sports Bra  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s  Brooks Sports  unit was sued for
trademark infringement by a Minnesota-based retailer of women’s
clothing.  Junonia Ltd.  of Mendota Heights, Minnesota, objects to
Brooks’s use of “Juno” for one of its sports bras. The
Minnesota company said it has registered “Juno,” “Junonia,”
“Junowear,” “Junoesque” and “Juno’s Closet” as trademarks
with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  Although the parties have attempted to negotiate a
resolution of the dispute, the discussions have come to naught,
Junonia said in its court papers. It claims the public is
confused by Brooks’s use of the Juno mark and is likely to
assume, mistakenly, that an affiliation exists between the two
companies.  Junonia asked the court to order Brooks to halt its
allegedly infringing activities, and for an award of Brooks’s
profits derived from its use of the Juno mark. Additionally, it
seeks removal of the Juno mark from all Brooks promotional
materials and awards of attorney fees and litigation costs.  Brooks didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment on the lawsuit.  The  Minnesota  company is represented by  Norman M. Abramson 
and  Lori Wiese-Parks  of Minneapolis-based  Gray Plant Mooty Mooty
& Bennett PA .  The case is Junonia Ltd. v. Brooks Sports Inc, 0:11-cv-
02211-JRT-JSM, U.s. District Court, District of Minnesota.  De Beers  Accused of Infringing Hearts on Fire’s ‘Sublime’ Mark  De Beers Diamond Jewellers Ltd. was sued for trademark
infringement by a Boston-based diamond company.  Hearts on Fire Co.  filed the suit in federal court in
Boston Aug. 3. The company objects to London-based De Beers’s
use of “Sublime Symmetry” and claims it infringes Hearts on
Fire’s “Sublime” trademark.  That mark was registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office in February 2006, according to court papers. Hearts on
Fire said the phrase has become an identifier of its good and
services.  De Beers is accused of trying to trade off the goodwill
associated with Hearts on Fire’s “Sublime” mark.  The London diamond company filed an application March 30 to
register “Sublime Symmetry” as a trademark and would use it
for the same classes of goods for which Hearts on Fire uses
“Sublime,” according to the complaint. Although that
application was rejected in June, De Beers continues to use it,
Hearts on Fire said in its pleadings.  De Beers also filed a petition in March to have Hearts on
Fire’s “Sublime” trademark registration canceled, according to
court papers.  Hearts on Fire asked the court to order De Beers to abandon
its attempt to register “Sublime Symmetry” as a trademark, and
to bar the U.K.-based diamond company from its use.  Additionally, the company asked for awards of De Beers
profits attributable to its alleged infringement, money damages,
attorney fees and litigation costs.  The company also seeks an order for corrective advertising,
to be paid for by De Beers.  De Beers didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment on the lawsuit.  Hearts on Fire is represented by  Bruce E. Falby  and  Robert
P. Sherman  of  Chicago ’s DLA Piper LLP.  The case is Hearts on Fire Co. v. De Beers Diamond
Jewellers Ltd., 1:11-cv-11391-WGY, U.S. District Court, District
of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  Coventry First Drops Trademark Suit Against Doe Defendants  Coventry First LLC, a closely held buyer of life insurance
policies for the secondary market, dropped a trademark-
infringement suit it filed against 10 unidentified defendants.  The case was filed in federal court in  Pennsylvania  June 7
and never served on any defendants. The Fort  Washington ,
Pennsylvania-based company sued the unnamed defendants it
accused of posting false messages through Twitter Inc.’s short
messaging service.  The messages accused the company of “rooting for mass
deaths” as a way of increasing  shareholder value , according to
exhibits filed with the complaint.  According to another exhibit, a separate posting made
through Twitter said that “the faster people die, the more
Coventry First profits.”  Paul Allen Levy  of the Washington-Based  Public Citizen 
public-interest group  said in a blog posting  that he represented
the anonymous poster after Coventry sent a subpoena to Twitter
seeking the poster’s identity. He filed a motion to stop the
subpoena. First Coventry then dropped the case.  He said counsel for Coventry made a “tactical mistake” by
sending a subpoena to Twitter without filing a motion to take
early discovery. Levy praised  San Francisco ’s Twitter for being
“a strong defender” of defendants’ right to notice.  The company was represented by  Camille M. Miller  and
 Melanie A. Miller  of Cozen O’Connor of Philadelphia.  The case is Coventry First LLC v. Does 1-10, 2:11-cv-03700-
JS, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Philadelphia).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Stephens’s Righthaven Gets Extension on Sanctions Payment  Stephens Media Group’s ongoing attempts to enforce its
copyrights through Righthaven LLC, a separate entity, got a
brief reprieve in its case against the Democratic Underground.  The suit, filed in August 2010, was related to what
Righthaven said was unauthorized posting to the Democratic
Underground’s website of content from one of Stephens’s
newspapers.  After filing a request for delay in paying a $5,000
sanction a day after the payment was due, Righthaven was given
an extension until Aug. 8 to make the payment.  The court responded Aug. 2 to another Righthaven request in
which the  Las Vegas  company asked what it meant when it ordered
the company to produce several court documents to all parties in
every proceeding involving Stevens Media.  Righthaven had argued that there were more than 70 cases
that fell within the court’s order, and complying with the court
order would “vastly exceed the amount of time counsel
anticipated dedicating to this portion of complying with the
court’s order.”  Earlier the court found fault with the nature of the
relationship between Righthaven and Stephens, saying that
Righthaven may not have the right to sue for copyright
infringement.  In its Aug. 2 order, the court told Righthaven that its
difficulties with getting the court documents to the parties in
all the cases was a problem of its own making. Righthaven and
its lawyers “should concentrate their efforts on material
issues and court orders, not wishful research,” U.S. District
Judge Roger L. Hunt said in his order.  Instead of complaining to the court about time constraints,
Hunt said the company should obtain additional help. He refused
to grant Righthaven a stay on the money sanction past Aug. 8.  He also chided Righthaven for what he called “its practice
of filing suit against a party and then entering settlement
negotiations (and frequently settling) without ever serving the
party.”  The case is Righthaven LLC v. Democratic Underground LLC,
2:10-cv-01356-RLH-GWF, U.s. District court, District of Nevada
(Las Vegas).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 