-- 
U.K. Police to Review Role of Twitter, Social Messaging in London Rioting

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-08-08T17:48:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/u-k-police-to-review-role-of-twitter-social-messaging-in-london-rioting.html
London  police will review the role
messages sent via Twitter Inc.’s messaging service and other
social-networking sites played in two nights of rioting that led
to more than 215 arrests and injured at least 35 police
officers.  “The police are ahead of the curve in  information
technology  and would have experience of the use of social-
networking sites by troublemakers,” said Steve O’Connell, a
member of the Metropolitan Police Authority, which monitors
London’s  Metropolitan Police Service . “The bad guys were using
these sites to target areas quickly. Small bands of ne’er-do-
wells were descending on high-quality stores to loot.”  The disturbances began Aug. 6 in the north London suburb of
Tottenham, after a local man, Mark Duggan, was killed in an
exchange of gunfire with police. Last night, police battled
rioters and looters in several areas of the capital. Officers
also dispersed youths at Oxford Circus in London’s main West End
shopping district and today were trying to suppress incidents in
the east London borough of Hackney.  Social media have been used to coordinate demonstrations
against Middle Eastern regimes, campaign for Saudi women’s right
to drive and for lower prices for cottage cheese in  Israel . In
the U.K., the use by troublemakers of Twitter -- and mobile
phones -- may help authorities identify them and restore peace
to London, O’Connell said by telephone.  “My expectation is that the police, like all of us, can
access Twitter,” he said. “I would expect the Met to use every
technology available to get it sorted out, make the arrests, and
bring peace back to our neighborhoods.”  May Vacation  U.K. Home Secretary Theresa May broke off her vacation to
return to the U.K. and meet today with the Met Police’s Acting
Commissioner Tim Godwin and other police chiefs, Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s spokesman, Steve Field, told reporters in
London.  Sean Garrett , a Twitter spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Of the 215 arrests, 27 have resulted in charges, mostly for
burglary, according to the Metropolitan Police website. At least
nine officers were injured overnight in what the police
described as “copycat criminal activity.” Deputy Prime
Minister  Nick Clegg  said today last night’s violence had
“absolutely nothing” to do with the death of Duggan.  “It was needless, opportunistic theft and violence --
nothing more, nothing less -- and it is completely unacceptable,
and the people who have suffered are those who have lost their
businesses, shopkeepers who have lost their shops,” he said.  Walthamstow, Chingford  Looters attacked stores in Walthamstow, Chingford and
Ponders End in northeast London as well as in Brixton in the
south, the Metropolitan Police said in a  statement on its
website .  “Officers are shocked at the outrageous level of violence
directed against them,” Metropolitan Police Commander Christine
Jones said in a statement. “We will not tolerate this
disgraceful violence. The investigation continues to bring these
criminals to justice.”  Police made 61 arrests and 26 officers were injured in
Tottenham Aug. 6 when a peaceful protest for the man shot by
police descended into rioting. The  Independent Police Complaints
Commission  is investigating the shooting.  “The IPCC awaits further forensic analysis to enable us to
have a fuller and more comprehensive account of what shots were
discharged, the sequence of events and what exactly happened,”
the commission said in a statement yesterday. It said in an
earlier statement during the day that “speculation that Mark
Duggan was ‘assassinated’ in an execution style involving a
number of shots to the head are categorically untrue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 