-- 
Police Deploy in Force to Stop U.K. Riots; Commons Recalled

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-08-09T20:58:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/u-k-home-secretary-cuts-short-vacation-as-160-arrested-in-london-rioting.html
Police deployed extra forces on the
streets of London to prevent a fourth night of unrest after 563
people were arrested in Britain’s worst rioting since the 1980s.
Prime Minister  David Cameron  recalled Parliament.  The prime minister, speaking outside his Downing Street
office in London after a meeting with ministers and security
chiefs, said there will be 16,000 officers on duty in London
tonight, up from 6,000 last night. Police leave was canceled and
Metropolitan Police Deputy Assistant Commissioner Stephen Kavanagh said the London force was preparing for “mass disorder
again tonight.” The House of Commons will meet in emergency
session on Aug. 11.  “I’m determined, the government is determined, that
justice will be done,” Cameron said. “This is criminality pure
and simple, and it has to be confronted and defeated.”  Cameron cut short his Italian vacation to deal with the
violence in which gasoline bombs have been thrown and vehicles,
homes and businesses torched. Kavanagh said police would
consider using all the tactics and equipment available,
including rubber bullets. Armored vehicles were used for the
first time in London last night, when the violence spread to
other cities.  Violence in Manchester  The focus of violence tonight switched to the northwestern
English city of Manchester. Rioters set fire to a property in
Salford, west of the center, and Miss Selfridge, a clothing
retailer in the main shopping area, Greater Manchester Police
said. Television pictures showed shop windows smashed and small
groups of people being confronted by police.  Police said they made 15 arrests, including one man on
suspicion of using  Facebook Inc .’s social networking site to
incite disorder.  West Midlands Police  said this evening  it was dealing with
small-scale unrest in the center of Birmingham and in
Wolverhampton and West Bromwich, with some stores broken into
and cars set on fire.  Stores in some parts of London and other cities closed
early today. John Lewis Plc, the country’s largest department-
store operator, said it shut shops in Liverpool and Swindon
earlier than usual.  Tottenham Shooting  The unrest began on Aug. 6 in the north London suburb of
Tottenham, after a local black man, Mark Duggan, was shot and
killed by police who stopped his car intending to make an
arrest. The area has one of the biggest concentrations of black
people in the country.  Rioting and looting have since spread across  London , with
police describing it as “copycat criminal activity” and
political leaders saying there is no link to the shooting. Some
of the areas hit, such as Tottenham, are among London’s poorest,
though others are not.  Cameron’s government has embarked on the biggest cuts to
public spending, including welfare and on the police, since
World War II to bring down the  budget deficit , though most of
these have yet to take effect.  The claimant-count  unemployment rate  for Londoners aged
16-24 was 5.4 percent in June, according to Office for National
Statistics data. That’s down from a peak during the recession of
6.6 percent in September 2009 and a 1993 high of 14.2 percent.  BlackBerry smartphone maker  Research in Motion Ltd. (RIM)  said it
is helping police probe reports the company’s messaging service
was being used by rioters to plan the disturbances.  Some 105 people have been charged in London, police said
today, including at least 63 with burglary, five with handling
stolen goods, two with assault on police and four with
possession of offensive weapons.  1980s Riots  Though student-led protests against increases in university
tuition fees descended into unrest last year, this week’s
rioting has been the worst in London since at least 1985, when
violence broke out in Tottenham in the north of the city and
Brixton in the south after the deaths of black women during
police searches.  Insurers face a bill of “well over” 100 million pounds
($162 million), Nick Starling, director of general insurance at
the  Association of British Insurers , said in an e-mailed
statement.  U.K. stocks rose as investors awaited the outcome of
today’s U.S. Federal Reserve meeting. The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  closed
up 1.9 percent at 5,164.92 in London after earlier plunging as
much as 5.5 percent. The pound declined against the euro and the
dollar.  Banks Closed  The unrest closed about 200 bank branches across London
today, according to an estimate compiled by the British Bankers’
Association.  The violence comes a year before London stages the 2012
 Olympic Games  and at a time when the capital is seeking a new
chief of police. Commissioner Paul Stephenson quit last month as
a scandal over phone-hacking at News Corp.’s now defunct News of
the World newspaper escalated. Parliament’s vacation was delayed
last month so lawmakers could discuss phone-hacking.  A statement from the  Metropolitan Police Service  reported
“serious outbreaks of disorder” last night in a number of
London’s 32 boroughs, including Hackney in the northeast, Newham
in the east, Ealing in the west and Lewisham and Croydon in the
south. “Last night was the worst the MPS has seen in current
memory for unacceptable levels of widespread looting, fires and
disorder,” it said.  A 26-year-old man shot in his car in Croydon last night
died in the hospital, the police said at today’s press
conference. Children as young as 11 were arrested for looting,
Kavanagh told reporters.  “People should be in no doubt that we will do everything
necessary to restore order to Britain’s streets and make them
safe for the law-abiding,” Cameron said.  Match Postponed  Tomorrow’s exhibition soccer game between  England  and the
Netherlands at Wembley Stadium in northwest London has been
postponed, England’s Football Association  said in a statement .
“We do not need the additional burden of a crowd of 80,000
people on our streets tomorrow,” the police said in a
statement.  Tim Godwin, the acting police commissioner, said there were
no plans to bring the Army in to assist with quelling the riots,
as he urged parents to keep their children indoors tonight.  “We will be very robustly policing,” he told reporters.
“We will pursue each and every one that’s involved. There were
far too many young people on the streets of London last night,
in places which were both dangerous and violent.”  The Metropolitan Police said on its Twitter Inc. feed that
between 400 and 500 officers are investigating the riots. Police
are  posting pictures of suspects  and requesting that the public
alert them to messages boasting about looting.  Cleanup Tour  London Mayor  Boris Johnson  broke off his vacation in  North
America  and toured the Clapham Junction area in southwest London
today, encouraging groups of locals who gathered to clear up the
damage. Cameron also visited districts hit by the unrest.  The  Independent Police Complaints Commission , which is
investigating the Aug. 6 Tottenham shooting, said in a statement
today that there was “no evidence” that a non-police handgun
found at the scene was fired during the incident.  Cameron will preside over another meeting of the
government’s COBR emergency committee to discuss developments at
9 a.m. tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net ;
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  