-- 
U.S. July Conference Board Employment Trends Index (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-08-08T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/u-s-july-conference-board-employment-trends-index-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S. employment trends index
from the Conference Board.  The Conference Board Employment Trends Index decreased slightly in July to
100.6, down from June’s revised figure of 100.9. The July figure is up 4 percent
from a year ago.  Says Gad Levanon, Associate Director of Macroeconomic Research at The
Conference Board: “The Employment Trends Index declined in three of the past four
months, and is signaling employment growth of less than 100,000 per month through
the end of 2011. Despite weak employment growth in recent months, GDP has been
growing even slower in the first half of 2011. There is simply not enough growth in
production to warrant stronger hiring.”  This month’s decrease in the ETI was driven by negative contributions from
three out of the eight components. The weakening indicators include The Conference
Board Consumer Confidence Survey “Jobs Hard to Get,” Percentage of Firms With
Positions Not Able to Fill Right Now and Job Openings, which is a forecasted
component.  The Employment Trends Index aggregates eight labor-market indicators, each of
which has proven accurate in its own area. Aggregating individual indicators into a
composite index filters out so-called “noise” to show underlying trends more clearly.  The eight labor-market indicators aggregated into the Employment Trends Index
include:  Percentage of Respondents Who Say They Find “Jobs Hard to Get” (The Conference
Board Consumer Confidence Survey)  Initial Claims for  Unemployment Insurance  (U.S. Department of Labor)  Percentage of Firms With Positions Not Able to Fill Right Now (National
Federation of Independent Business Research Foundation)  Number of Employees Hired by the Temporary-Help Industry ( U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics )  Part-Time Workers for Economic Reasons (BLS)  Job Openings (BLS)  Industrial Production  (Federal Reserve Board)  Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales (U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis)  The Conference Board publishes the Employment Trends Index monthly, at 10 a.m.
ET on the Monday that follows each Friday release of the Bureau of Labor Statistics
employment situation report.  The technical notes to this series are available on The Conference Board
website:  http://www.conferenceboard . org/data/eti.cfm.  Employment Trends Index (ETI) 2011 Publication Schedule
Index Release Date (10 AM ET)         Data for the Month
* Tuesday, September 6                August
* Tuesday, October 11                 September
Monday, November 7                    October
Monday, December 5                    November  SOURCE: The Conference Board
 http://www.conference-board.org 
