-- 
U.S. Treasuries Remain a ‘Safe Haven,’ ADB’s Iwan Azis Says

-- B y   S u n i l   J a g t i a n i
-- 
2011-08-08T02:02:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/u-s-treasuries-remain-a-safe-haven-adb-s-iwan-azis-says.html
U.S. Treasuries remain a “safe
haven,” Iwan Azis, head of the  Asian Development Bank ’s Office
of Regional Economic Integration, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television today. He was commenting on the impact on
Asia of  Standard & Poor’s  decision on Aug. 5 to lower the U.S.
sovereign credit rating one step to AA+ from AAA.  On the consequences for markets and Asia:  “If there is anything significant, it’s going to be the
psychological effect on the market. What is more serious is
really the possible impact on the real sector, on the Asian
economy, especially the export sectors; the fact the  U.S.
economy  will be slowing down, and the U.S. is still the largest
market of final goods exports from Asia.  “And then also the high probability of the continued
weakening of the  U.S. dollar , which also means the strengthening
of the currencies in Asia; that also is not too good news for
exports.  “The capital flows coming into the region will continue,
and that will at least put further pressure for regional
currencies to strengthen, which also means bad news for
exports.”  On the potential rise in U.S. borrowing costs:  “For export-orienting economies, like Thailand, South
Korea, Taipei  China  and so forth, it’s not really a good
development for their export prospects. It’s not just the
slowing down of the U.S. economy, but also the strengthening of
their currencies vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar.”  On safe havens in the government bond markets:  “In general, there is no haven in the Earth now because
really the  U.S. Treasury  has been traditionally the most
important safe haven.  “I don’t think there will be a major, major shift in terms
of the preference of the market, in terms of considering the U.S.
Treasury as a safe haven.  “I think it is still a safe haven, and after all it is
only one notch down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sunil Jagtiani in Singapore at 
 sjagtiani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  