-- 
U.S. Rating Downgrade Exacerbates Currency Misery for Elpida, Fuji Heavy

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-08-09T03:34:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/u-s-downgrade-exacerbates-yen-misery-for-elpida-fuji-heavy.html
Japanese exporters said the U.S.’s
loss of its AAA credit rating will hinder efforts to weaken a
near-record high yen that is crimping their overseas earnings.  “I’m very worried that this super-strong yen situation may
last over a prolonged period,” Yasuyuki Yoshinaga, president of
 Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270) , maker of Subaru cars, said in an
interview yesterday. “Money is flowing to the yen because of
weakness in the U.S., European economies and concerns about U.S.
credit.”  The yen rose to as much as 77.06 against the dollar today,
its third straight daily gain, as investors shunned the
greenback after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the rating on the U.S.’s
long-term debt to AA+. The gains returned the yen close to
levels that last week prompted the government to sell  Japan ’s
currency for the first time since March.  “We’re in trouble,” said Yasuo Shirai, chief financial
officer at  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665) , the world’s third-largest maker
of computer-memory chips. “The dollar is losing trust after the
rating on the  U.S. Treasury  was cut.”  Cutting Profit  For Tokyo-based Elpida, earnings forecasts are based on
exchange rate of 80 yen to the dollar, with each 1 yen rise
cutting annual profit by about 3 billion yen ($39 million).  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said in parliament
today that volatile exchange rates could have a “negative
impact” on the economy. Board member Sayuri Shirai said she’s
“very worried” about an excessively strong yen because it
could hurt corporate sentiment.  The Japanese government is ready to sell yen again if it
sees speculative trades driving the currency higher, Vice
Finance Minister Fumihiko Igarashi said on public broadcaster
NHK yesterday. A stronger yen erodes exporters’ overseas
earnings when repatriated and reduces their competitiveness.  “Our sales are being strongly impacted by the foreign
exchange,” Yoshio Kokubo, managing director at Tokyo-based
 Pilot Corp. (7846) , told reporters today. “It exasperates me. It’s
America and  Europe ’s problem.”  The expected exchange rate for Pilot, which manufactures
and sells stationery, is 82 yen for the first half of this year,
Kokubo said.  “We have no idea what level it will be in the second half-
year,” he said.  South  Korean Won   A stronger yen benefits companies that rely on raw
materials bought overseas. Export profits at Suntory Holdings
Ltd., the Osaka-based whiskey and beer maker, are about equal to
the cost of imported raw materials, said Kozo Chiji, managing
executive officer at Suntory.  “We are not really affected by strong yen, but we hope the
exchange ratio will be stabilized,” Chiji said.  Mami Imada, a spokeswoman at Tokyo-based Sony Corp.,
declined to comment, citing the company’s policy not to comment
on market fluctuations.  Akira Kadota, a Tokyo-based spokesman at Panasonic Corp.,
declined to comment, as did Keisuke Ohmori, a spokesman at
Toshiba Corp.  Toyota Motor Corp., Nissan Motor Co. and Honda Motor Co.
also declined to comment.  The S&P decision to cut the U.S. credit rating also may
hurt profit for South Korean companies by raising the value of
the won, said Lee Seung Woo, an analyst at Shinyoung Securities
Co.  LG, BYD  “This is an unprecedented event,” Lee said. “It’s more
likely to be negative than positive.”  North America  accounts for 28 percent of revenue at Samsung
Electronics Co. and 22 percent at  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  LG is “watching” the unfolding market reactions, said
Sally Lee, a spokeswoman in  Seoul . Samsung also is monitoring
the situation, a spokesman, Nam Ki-Yung, said.  BYD Co Ltd. (1211) , the Chinese carmaker part-owned by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., doesn’t expect much impact
from any U.S. slowdown as the company prepares to debut its E6
electric car there, said Paul Lin, a spokesman for BYD.  “We are targeting the new-energy vehicle segment,” Lin
said. “The segment has potential to grow so the current
developments won’t likely impact our plan.”  ‘Button Down’  Indian software exporter Infosys Ltd. earned 66 percent of
its revenue from North America in the year ended March 31.  The actions it took to skirt the worst of the 2008 global
recession, including winning new orders outside its traditional
markets of Europe and the U.S., may brace it against further
downturns, Chief Executive Officer S. Gopalakrishnan said in an
e-mail.  “We were able to react very quickly in the past when the
recession happened,” Gopalakrishnan said of the Bangalore-based
Infosys,  India ’s second-largest software exporter. “These
responses are still fresh in our memory and I believe that the
industry may be able to withstand another global downturn.”  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) , the nation’s third-largest software exporter,
generates about 41 percent of its sales from the U.S. The
biggest impact of the downgrade may be on consumer sentiment,
said T.K. Kurien, chief executive officer of Wipro’s
information-technology unit.  “If there’s concern, it’s how much people would button
down their current-year spending,” Kurien said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  