-- 
U.S. Unlikely to Regain AAA Soon, Dollar to Keep Reserve Status, S&P Says

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-08-08T14:57:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/u-s-unlikely-to-regain-aaa-soon-dollar-to-keep-reserve-status-s-p-says.html
The U.S. is unlikely to regain its
top long-term  credit rating  quickly even as the dollar remains
the world’s main reserve currency, said Standard & Poor’s
analysts David Beers and  John Chambers  in a conference call.  “We don’t anticipate a scenario at the moment in which the
U.S. would quickly return” to AAA, Beers said. “Given the
nature of the debate currently in the country, the polarization
of views around fiscal policy right now, we don’t see anything
immediately on the horizon that would make this the most likely
scenario.”  S&P cut the U.S. from AAA by one level to AA+ while keeping
the outlook at “negative” on Aug. 5, citing the political
failure to reduce record deficits. The ranking may be cut to AA
within two years if spending reductions are lower than agreed
to,  interest rates  rise or “new fiscal pressures” result in
higher general government debt, the New York-based firm said.
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their AAA
credit ratings for the U.S. on Aug. 2.  “Elected officials across the spectrum are unable to
proactively take measures to put U.S. public finances on
sustainable footing in the same manner as some most highly rated
countries,” Chambers said in the conference call.  Debt Limit  Lawmakers agreed on Aug. 2 to raise the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt ceiling and put in place a plan to enforce $2.4
trillion in spending reductions over the next 10 years, less
than the $4 trillion S&P had said it preferred.  Still, the dollar is likely to keep its role as the main
reserve currency “for lack of alternative,” Chambers said. The
greenback rose today against a majority of its most-traded
counterparts as investors sought the refuge of  U.S. government
debt  even after the rating downgrade as global stocks fell.
Yields on Treasury two-year notes reached a record low.  “We think the dollar will remain the key international
currency under any plausible scenario,” Chambers said. “We
expect the dollar to retain that position and that is going to
result in lower financing cost than otherwise would be the case,
not only for the government, but for the private sector.”  While Moody’s and Fitch affirmed the top AAA rating for the
U.S., they said downgrades are possible if lawmakers fail to
enact debt reduction measures and the economy weakens.  S&P gives 18 sovereign entities its top ranking, including
 Australia ,  Hong Kong  and the  Isle of Man , according to a July
report. The U.K. which is estimated to have debt to GDP this
year of 80 percent, 6 percentage points higher than the U.S.,
also has the top credit grade. In contrast with the U.S., its
net public debt is forecast to decline either before or by 2015,
S&P said in the statement yesterday.  New Zealand  is the only country other than the U.S. that
has a AA+ rating from S&P and an Aaa grade from Moody’s.  Belgium 
has an equivalent AA+ grade from S&P, Moody’s and Fitch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  