-- 
U.S. Downgrade Is `Blow to Confidence,’ El-Erian Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-08-08T19:56:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/u-s-downgrade-is-blow-to-confidence-pimco-s-el-erian-says-tom-keene.html
Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of  U.S.
government debt  to AA+ is a “blow to confidence” and raises
questions about the core of the financial system, said Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed A. El-Erian.  “This is not so much about America’s ability to repay its
government debt, it is much more about the continued failure of
policy makers to get their arms around what’s needed,” said El
Erian, chief executive and co-chief investment officer at the
world’s biggest manager of bond funds, said in a radio interview
on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt.  The U.S. bond market is entering a different era where
investors and policy makers recognize that problems in the
economy are structural, were accrued during many years and will
need to be addressed with similarly broad solutions, El-Erian
said.  Policy makers will need “courage” to deal with the full
scope of the problems facing the  U.S. economy , El-Erian said.  “There’s no other country that’s either able or willing to
provide the risk-free rate,” El-Erian said. “What happens to a
global system that has at its core not a AAA, but a AA+ on
negative outlook. That is an issue people are trying to get
their arms around. We have been discussing this for weeks and
weeks at our investment committee here at Pimco.”  Gross Cash  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Newport Beach, California-based Pimco, boosted holdings of
Treasuries in July during the biggest monthly rally in the
securities since August 2010 as the U.S. confronted the
possibility of default.  Gross increased the $245 billion Total Return Fund’s
investment in U.S. government securities to 10 percent of assets
in July from 8 percent in June, according to  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pimco’s  website . He cut cash equivalents and
money-market securities to 15 percent from 29 percent, making it
the lowest level in the fund’s cash holdings since January.  “Our hope was that the S&P downgrade would be a wake-up
call that would lead to what you’ve heard me refer to as the
‘Sputnik moment,’ the realization that we need to do something
different,” El-Erian said. “We need to come together.”  The initial response by the government wasn’t promising,
El-Erian said. President  Barack Obama ’s administration and S&P
engaged in a “very unfortunate and public clash” about the
rating decision, while Democrats and Republicans played the
“blame game” in trying to saddle each other with
responsibility for the downgrade, El-Erian said.  “Let’s hope we can get over this initial reaction because
there’s a lot at stake,” El-Erian said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  