-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Raw Materials Decline on Rating Cut

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-08-08T11:29:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-raw-materials-decline-on-rating-cut.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  METAL PRICES: ($/ton)  Last  % Chg RSI
Copper          9,009   -0.4  31
Aluminum        2,435   +1.4  36
Zinc            2,175   -1.2  30
Lead            2,339   -0.9  24
Nickel         22,400   -0.5  36
Tin            23,350   -4.1  23  
TOP STORY:  Commodities Drop as U.S. Credit-Rating Cut May Worsen Slowdown  Commodities extended the biggest weekly drop in three
months as concern deepened that the U.S. credit-rating cut may
worsen the economic slowdown, eroding demand. Gold climbed to a
record as investors sought a haven.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Commodity Currencies a Refuge as Intervention Upends Havens (2)  The currency havens are disappearing as Switzerland and
 Japan  intervene in foreign-exchange markets, while U.S. and
European debt loads undermine credit ratings.  Saudi Spare Oil Falls to Three-Year Low With Record Demand (1)  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest exporter of crude, is
consuming more of its own oil than ever, eroding the ability to
cover global shortages as demand rises to an all-time high.  Oil Tankers Sail to India From  Iran  After $1.4 Billion Payment  Two oil tankers are sailing to India’s west coast from Iran
after the South Asian nation paid 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion)
to partially clear debt on its purchases, ship-tracking data
show.  Kuwait Hopes Oil Price Rebounds in Few Weeks, Minister Says (1)  Kuwait hopes  oil prices  will rebound in the next two or
three weeks and “settle” at a level favorable to producers and
consumers, Oil Minister Mohammad al- Busairy said.  Allianz Seeks to Buy More Wind, Solar Plants to Boost Returns  Allianz SE, Europe’s biggest insurer, aims to acquire more
wind farms and solar plants to help boost investment returns.  Ruble Sinks Most of BRICs as Oil Erases 2011 Gain: Russia Credit  The ruble is weakening the most of the biggest emerging-
market currencies as oil erases its 2011 advance, cutting demand
for assets in the world’s biggest crude producer.  Clean Energy Companies Seek Australia’s A$126 Million of Grants  Carnegie Wave Energy Ltd., Panax Geothermal Ltd. and
Petratherm Ltd. are among companies planning to apply for A$126
million ($131 million) of Australian government funding set
aside to help renewable energy projects.  Hedge Funds  Oil Bets Decline Most in Six Months: Energy Markets  Hedge funds cut bullish bets on crude oil by the most in
more than six months on growing concern that the faltering
economic recovery will sap energy demand.  Reliance’s July Fuel Exports at 1.3 Million Tons, Ship Data Show  Reliance Industries Ltd., owner of the world’s biggest
refining complex, exported at least 1.3 million metric tons of
oil products last month, shipping data show.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Falls, Heads for Biggest Monthly Drop Since December 2008  Copper fell for a fourth day in  London , on course for the
biggest monthly drop since December 2008, as commodities and
equities slid after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S. credit
rating. Tin reached an 11-month low.  China  May Buy Metals as Prices Plunge, Macquarie Says  Chinese buyers may return to the market to buy metals
“relatively quickly” after a selloff, helping commodity prices
to rebound, Macquarie Group Ltd. said.  MINING:  NMDC to Double Iron Ore Output in Karnataka as Mining Restarts  NMDC Ltd.,  India ’s largest iron ore producer, aims to
almost double production from its mines in Karnataka to meet
local demand after the nation’s top court allowed the company to
restart operations in the southern state.  European Stocks Resume Decline as Mining Companies Retreat  European stocks resumed their decline after a selloff in
mining companies overshadowed a rally in financial shares as the
region’s central bank was said to start buying Spanish and
Italian  government bonds . U.S. index futures and Asian shares
declined.  Rio, Mitsubishi Bid A$1.49 Billion for Rest of Coal & Allied (4)  Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second- biggest mining
company, and Mitsubishi Corp. offered A$1.49 billion ($1.55
billion) for the shares in Coal & Allied Industries Ltd. they
don’t own to take the coal miner private.  China Aluminum Prices May Gain on Power Cuts, Chinalco Says  Prices of aluminum in China, the world’s largest producer,
may be supported as power shortages in summer could curb
production, said an executive at Aluminum Corp. of China.  Analysts Still Bullish After 27% Bovespa Slump: Chart of the Day  While Brazilian stocks slid into a bear market, analysts’
share-price forecasts have barely budged.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Record Gold Prices Hurting India Demand, Rajesh Exports Says  Record gold prices are hurting demand in India, the world’s
biggest bullion consumer, said Rajesh Exports Ltd., India’s
largest jewelry maker and exporter.  Gold Tops $1,700 for First Time as U.S. Rating Cut Spurs Demand  Gold climbed above $1,700 an ounce for the first time after
Standard & Poor’s cut the top U.S. credit rating, fueling a
slump in equities and the dollar amid concern that the global
economy is slowing.  Gold Prices May Reach $1,800 An Ounce by Year End, Kotak Says  Gold prices, at a record today, could extend gains and
reach $1,800 an ounce by the end of the year as investors seek a
haven amid global economic uncertainty, according to Kotak
Commodity Services Ltd.  Shanghai Gold Exchange to Increase Margin to 11% From Aug. 11  Shanghai Gold Exchange will increase the trade margin
requirement to 11 percent for its gold forward contracts from
settlement on Aug. 11, the bourse said in a statement posted on
the website today.  Goldman Raises Gold Forecasts, Keeps Long Recommendation (1)  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. boosted its gold-futures forecasts
to $1,645 an ounce, $1,730 an ounce and $1,860 an ounce on a
three-month, six-month and 12-month horizon as it expects real
U.S. interest rates to stay lower for longer.  AGRICULTURE:  Indonesia  Exporters Withhold 10,000 Tons of Coffee on Low Price  Coffee exporters in Indonesia’s southern Sumatra, the
country’s main growing region, are withholding shipments of
about 10,000 metric tons of beans because of a decline in
prices, an industry group said.  Wheat Falls for Fourth Day as U.S. Rating Cut ‘Spooks’ Markets  Wheat declined for a fourth day in  Chicago , the longest
falling streak in six weeks after the U.S. credit rating was
cut, fueling economic concerns and prompting investors to avoid
riskier assets. Corn and soybeans also fell.  Sugar Resumes Decline on Supply Speculation; Coffee Retreats  Sugar resumed its decline in London on speculation supplies
may be plentiful amid ample beet crops in the Northern
Hemisphere. Coffee dropped.  Tokyo  Rice Halted After First Futures Trading Since 1939 (2)  Rice futures in Tokyo surged in their first appearance on
the bourse since 1939, triggering a suspension of trade, on
concern radiation from the stricken Fukushima nuclear plant may
spread to crops and curb supply.  Rubber Slumps to Lowest in Almost Four Weeks on U.S. Rating Cut  Rubber declined for a third day to the weakest level in
almost four weeks after Standard & Poor’s lowered the U.S.
credit rating, spurring a slump in equities and the dollar and
deepening concern the global economy may slow.  Rubber Exports From Indonesia Climbs as Production Expands (1)  Rubber output and exports from Indonesia, the second-
largest grower, surged 20 percent in the first half after
favorable weather in the main growing regions boosted tapping,
an industry group said.  SHIPPING:  North Sea Troll September Daily Crude Oil Loadings to Drop 5.7%  North Sea loadings of Troll crude oil will fall by 5.7
percent to 260,000 barrels a day in September from this month,
according to a loading program obtained by Bloomberg News.  China Evacuates 130,000 People Ahead of Tropical Storm Muifa  China has evacuated more than 130,000 people in the
northeastern province of Liaoning in preparation for the arrival
of tropical storm Muifa, according to Nen.com.cn, a news website
controlled by the provincial government.  Chamber of Shipping Backs IMO Moves on Curbing Vessel Emissions  The International Chamber of Shipping is backing moves by
the  International Maritime Organization  to curb vessel
emissions, it said in a statement distributed today.  Tanker-Derivatives Traders ‘Super Cautious,’ SSY’s Goggin Says  Traders in forward freight agreements used to bet on, or
hedge, crude oil shipping costs are being “super cautious”
today and it’s “hard to find good bids,” Ben Goggin, a broker
of the contracts at SSY Futures Ltd. in London, said by e-mail.
Prices for August contracts on the  Saudi Arabia  to Japan route
fell 1.6 percent to 46.75 Worldscale points, he said.  Frontline Rises 0.2% in Oslo Trading; Norden and Torm Decline  Frontline Ltd., the world’s largest operator of
supertankers, rose 0.2 percent to 46.16 Norwegian kroner in
Oslo. D/S Norden A/S fell 1.5 percent in Copenhagen and Torm A/S
fell 9 percent in the Danish capital. Braemar Shipping Services
Plc slid 1.9 percent in London.  ECONOMIES:  Yuan Jumps Most Since April on U.S. Downgrade, Record Fixing  The yuan strengthened the most since April, touching a
record high, as a Standard & Poor’s downgrade of the  U.S. debt 
rating fueled speculation China will rein in dollar purchases
used to limit appreciation.  Geithner Decision to Stay Gives ‘Continuity’ Amid Market Turmoil  Timothy F. Geithner’s decision to stay on as Treasury
secretary allows the Obama administration to maintain continuity
in economic policy amid investor concern that the two-year-old
expansion may be stalling.  Swaps Show Rate Rises May Slow as Inflation Holds: China Credit  China will slow the pace of interest- rate increases and
yuan gains as inflation levels off and the faltering expansion
in the U.S. and  Europe  threatens export growth, derivatives
contracts show.  Trichet Draws ECB ‘Bazooka’ as Italy, Spain Debt Purchases Begin  European Central Bank  President Jean- Claude Trichet
started buying Italian and Spanish assets today in his riskiest
attempt yet to tame the sovereign debt crisis.  G-7 Seeks to Calm Investor Fear After World Stock Selloff (1)  Group of Seven nations sought to head off a collapse in
investor confidence after the U.S. sovereign- rating cut and a
slump in Italian and Spanish debt intensified threats to the
global economy.  AAA Rated  France  May Be Vulnerable to Downgrade After U.S. Cut  The decision by Standard & Poor’s to downgrade the U.S.
credit rating leaves France as the AAA country most likely to
lose its top grade, some investors and economists say.  Employers Ready to Hire Can’t Find Workers Among 9.1% Unemployed  Bill Begal says he has spent almost $2,000 since March on
help-wanted ads in newspapers, websites, and state employment
services up and down the East Coast to find sales and
administrative staff for his Rockville, Maryland-based disaster-
cleanup company.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks, Oil Fall on U.S. Rating; Italy Bonds Gain as ECB Buys  Stocks, U.S. index futures and oil fell, while gold reached
a record high and Treasuries gained after Standard & Poor’s cut
the AAA rating on America’s debt. Bonds of Europe’s most-
indebted nations surged as the European Central Bank started
buying Spanish and Italian debt.  Dollar Weakens to Record Versus Franc as S&P Lowers U.S. Rating  The dollar dropped to a record low against the Swiss franc
and fell for a second day versus the yen after Standard & Poor’s
downgrade of the U.S. added to concern the fiscal health of the
world’s biggest economy is slipping.  Yuan Advances Most in a Week on U.S. Downgrade, Record Fixing  China’s yuan strengthened the most in a week, touching a
17-year high, as a Standard & Poor’s downgrade of the U.S. debt
rating fueled speculation China will rein in dollar purchases
used to limit appreciation.  European Stocks Resume Slump as U.S. Growth Concerns Escalate  European stocks resumed a selloff as Standard & Poor’s
downgrade of U.S. debt overshadowed the European Central Bank’s
purchase of Spanish and Italian government bonds. U.S. index
futures and Asian shares dropped.  U.S. Stock Futures Fall as S&P Downgrade Spurs Economic Concern  U.S. stock futures declined, following the biggest weekly
drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since 2008, amid concern
that a downgrade of the nation’s credit rating by S&P may worsen
an economic slowdown.  Oil Falls to Trade Near Eight-Month Low as S&P Cuts U.S. Rating  Oil fell in  New York  after Standard & Poor’s lowered the
U.S. credit rating from the highest level, stoking concern an
economic slowdown will worsen and cut fuel demand in the world’s
biggest crude consumer.  Goldman Sachs Keeps Constructive Outlook on Commodities (1)  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. maintained its constructive
outlook on commodities and kept its overweight recommendation on
raw materials relative to other assets, saying global economic
growth is “sufficient” to drive demand.  Obama Ally Blames Tea Party as Geithner Blasts S&P’s Cut (1)  The Obama administration sought to reassure global
investors and push back against Standard & Poor’s first-ever
downgrade of the nation’s credit rating while trying to pin
responsibility on Tea Party Republicans.  Syria Deaths Spur Growing Condemnation as Saudi Envoy Pulled (1)  Syria’s crackdown on protesters, which activists say
claimed at least 100 lives yesterday as the five-month death
toll passed 2,200, is cementing international condemnation and
bringing it closer to home.  SPORTS:  Arsenal Poised to Complete Oxlade-Chamberlain Signing: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
media, with clickable links to the Web.  N.Z.’S Rugby World Cup Odds Cut After Beating Australia (Table)  U.K. bookmaker William Hill Plc offers the following odds
to win the Sept. 9-Oct. 23 Rugby World Cup in  New Zealand :  Woods Targets PGA Championship as Ex-Caddie Wins With Scott (1)  Tiger Woods said he’s still searching for consistency
heading into this week’s U.S. PGA Championship. His former
caddie is already back in winning form with new boss Adam Scott.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  