-- 
Ukraine Keeps Tymoshenko in Custody as U.S., EU Voice Concerns

-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 
2011-08-08T10:08:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/ukraine-keeps-tymoshenko-in-custody-as-u-s-eu-voice-concerns.html
A Ukrainian court ruled to keep
former Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko  in custody during her
trial, amid concern by the U.S. and the European Union and
street protests by her supporters.  The District Court in Kiev, the Ukrainian capital, rejected
a request by Tymoshenko’s lawyer Yuriy Sukhov to release her on
bail, Natalia Lysova, a spokeswoman for the former premier, said
by phone today. Judge Rodion Kireyev earlier turned down an
appeal to release Tymoshenko.  Tymoshenko was arrested Aug. 5 after Kireyev ruled that she
had violated court rules and sought to obstruct her trial, in
which prosecutors claim that her government agreed to pay too
much to buy Russian natural gas in 2009. Tymoshenko says
President  Viktor Yanukovych  engineered the case to silence his
opposition before elections next year.  “The U.S. shares those concerns and urges that Mrs.
Tymoshenko’s incarceration be reviewed and consideration be
given to her immediate release,” according to an Aug. 6
statement on the website of the U.S. Embassy in  Kiev , which
requested access to the former premier.  The EU, which Ukraine wants to join and with which the
former Soviet state seeks to sign the so-called Association
Agreement this year, is “extremely concerned” by the arrest,
 Catherine Ashton , the EU’s foreign policy chief and Enlargement
Commissioner Stefan Fule said in an Aug. 6 statement.  “Events are therefore a cause for concern about the state
of the rule of law in Ukraine,” they wrote.  Tymoshenko, 50, has been at odds with Yanukovych since
2004, when she helped lead the Orange Revolution that overturned
his victory in presidential elections. She was ordered not to
leave Ukraine in December during a separate investigation into
the sale of emissions permits to  Japan  in 2009.  Tymoshenko’s supporters announced Aug. 5 protests near the
court, which is on Kiev’s main street Khreshchatyk, and set up
tents there.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  