-- 
UniCredit, Intesa Erase Gains as Investors Focus on U.S. Rating

-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-08-08T10:36:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/unicredit-intesa-erase-gains-as-investors-focus-on-u-s-rating.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) 
erased much of their earlier gains triggered by the  European
Central Bank ’s purchase of Italian bonds, leading to a plunge in
yields of the country’s debt.  UniCredit and Intesa Sanpaolo, which own more than 100
billion euros ($143 billion) of Italian government debt, gained
as much as 8.5 percent and 9.3 percent respectively. The lenders
gave back much of the gains after European stock markets turned
lower as investors focused on the U.S. losing its AAA credit
rating. UniCredit added 0.2 percent to 1.07 euros and Intesa
gained 0.5 percent to 1.31 euros at 12:20 p.m. The benchmark
FTSE MIB index fell 0.3 percent to 15,970.7.  “We are seeing a recovery of Italian  government bonds  due
to the ECB’s announcement,” said Gianpaolo Rivano, who helps
manage 150 million euros in funds for Milan-based Gestire. “In
theory this should translate to an increase of shares in the
banking sector, but we saw that only in the very first part of
the session. Now we are seeing jitters because investors’ focus
is back on the U.S. downgrade by S&P.”  A July 21 agreement by European Union leaders to enhance
the region’s bailout fund and allow it to aid countries like
Italy and  Spain  before they needed bailouts failed to end the
contagion. Bond yields in both countries surged to euro-era
highs last week, slamming their banks on investor concern that
possible writedowns of their bond holdings would leave the
lenders undercapitalized and cut off from funding.  The yield on  Italy ’s 10-year bond fell 75 basis points to
5.346 percent after the ECB beyond buying Italian and Spanish
debt. The 10-year yield remains 100 basis points above its
average for the past decade as investors remain concerned about
the government’s ability to bring down the region’s second-
biggest debt at 1.8 trillion euros ($2.6 trillion).  The  risk aversion  pushed the shares of the two-biggest
Italian banks, the largest buyers of  government securities , to
their lowest in more than two years.  UniCredit, the country’s biggest bank, lost 23 percent
between the July 21 meeting and today’s market opening, while
Intesa shed 28 percent in the same period. The two represent
about 20 percent of the FTSE MIB and their slump since the start
of July helped wipe out the gain in indexes for the year, with
the FTSEMIB now down 20 percent in 2011.  “Banks are still trading above their bottom valuations and
even if they have been already hammered, we don’t have a
genuinely constructive view,” Intermonte said in a note to
investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Milan at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.n   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 