-- 
Dubai Shares Slump to Lowest Since March on U.S., Global Growth Concern

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-08-08T13:29:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/united-arab-emirates-shares-rise-on-speculation-drop-overdone-emaar-gains.html
Dubai’s stock index retreated to the
lowest since March as global financial markets slumped amid
concern that  Standard & Poor’s  downgrading of the U.S.’s credit
rating may stall the global economic recovery.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the world’s tallest
tower, declined 1.7 percent. Aramex PJSC, the  Middle East ’s
largest courier company, dropped to the lowest in almost two
months. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  lost 0.8 percent to 1,473.07, the
lowest since March 17, at the 2 p.m. close in the emirate. It
had earlier gained as much as 0.9 percent after plunging 3.7
percent yesterday. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  decreased 0.3
percent.  “There’s a lot of volatility as investors wait to see how
the rest of the global markets react; sentiments are jittery,”
said Mohammed Ali Yasin, chief investment officer at Abu Dhabi-
based financial services company CAPM Investments PJSC. “We may
see tough times in the coming few sessions based on
international developments rather than what’s happening
internally.”  Emerging market stocks retreated as they traded for the
first time since S&P announced the one-level reduction in the
U.S.’s sovereign-debt rating to AA+ on Aug. 5. The Treasury
Department said there is “no justifiable rationale” for S&P’s
move, while S&P’s officials stood by their decision and laid
blame on a political system that failed to adequately address
 deficit reduction  in the compromise law that President  Barack Obama  signed this month to avert a default.  Oil Drops  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index tumbled 2.7 percent after
sliding 8.5 percent last week. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
futures decreased 2.3 percent and the STOXX Europe 600 Index
slid 2.1 percent. The European measure had earlier gained as
much as 0.8 percent after the region’s central bank was said to
start buying Spanish and Italian government bonds.  Oil for September delivery slid as much as 5 percent to
$82.52 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  before
trading at $83.68. The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation
Council, including the United Arab Emirates and  Saudi Arabia ,
supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Emaar dropped to 2.83 dirhams, the lowest since July 28.
Aramex lost 2.8 percent to 1.74 dirhams.  “United Arab Emirates equity markets have very few
companies that are directly correlated to global macro”
developments, said Akram Annous, Middle East and North Africa
strategist at Al Mal Capital PSC in Dubai. “This was viewed as
an Achilles heel for most of the last two years, but is now
providing some protection.”  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  gained 0.4 percent after
yesterday falling 2.5 percent. Oman’s MSM 30 Index and Qatar’s
 QE Index (DSM)  declined 0.8 percent. Bahrain’s BB All Share Index lost
0.2 percent, retreating for an eighth day. The Kuwait Stock
Exchange Unweighted Index also decreased 0.2 percent, while
Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  declined 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  