-- 
US Airways Seeks Halt to Alleged Pilot Slowdown on Harm to Public, Airline

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-08-08T20:52:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/us-airways-seeks-court-order-temporarily-blocking-alleged-pilot-slowdown.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  asked a federal
court to temporarily block its pilots union and individual
pilots from taking part in or encouraging an alleged work
slowdown.  US Airways , which sued the  US Airline Pilots Association 
last month, said in papers filed today in federal court in
Charlotte, North Carolina, that it will suffer immediate harm
unless the court issues the temporary restraining order.  “The current situation is untenable for US Airways, the
traveling public, and the pilots who refuse to accede to the
threats and intimidation” of those who allegedly support the
job action, the airline said in the court filing.  The airline, based in Tempe,  Arizona , sued its pilots union
on July 29, claiming it was engaged in a work slowdown that
violated federal labor law.  “Approximately 11,750 members of the travelling public
have had their flights canceled during the last 10 days,”
according to a US Airways brief submitted today in support of
its requested court order.  James Ray, a spokesman for the US Airline Pilots
Association in  Charlotte , didn’t immediately return a phone call
seeking comment.  Airline labor relations are governed by the  Railway Labor
Act , which makes it illegal for unions to strike or stage work
slowdowns or sickouts unless they have been released from
contract talks by the  National Mediation Board . Work slowdowns
have resulted in court orders prohibiting employees from taking
part in such actions and in fines against unions.  Seniority List  US Airways has been unable to negotiate a single contract
covering its pilots since the 2005 merger of America West
Holdings Corp. and US Airways because of disagreements over how
the pilots from the carriers should be placed on a merged
seniority list.  Michael Cleary, president of the pilots’ union, has
encouraged the work slowdown since the suit was filed last
month, the airline said.  Pilots who flew for the stand-alone US Airways are
concentrated in the eastern U.S., while former America West
pilots operate primarily in the western U.S. The two pilot
groups continue to operate under separate contracts with
different pay rates and work and scheduling rules.  A hearing on the request for a restraining order is
scheduled for Aug. 12, according to court records.  The case is US Airways v. US Airline Pilots Association,
11-00371, U.S. District Court, Western District of  North
Carolina  (Charlotte.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  