-- 
Chavez Begins Second Stage of Chemotherapy in Cuba

-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 
2011-08-08T16:07:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/venezuela-s-chavez-cried-after-informed-of-his-cancer-by-castro.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  said
that tests taken yesterday in Cuba went “well” and that he’s
beginning his second stage of chemotherapy today.  Chavez, who is being treated for an undisclosed type of
cancer, returned to Cuba on Aug. 6 for what he said would be
more than a week. He said today that he’s gaining muscle mass
and is recovering to be able to continue leading his so-called
Bolivarian revolution. Radiation therapy may be needed after the
chemotherapy, he said.  “All of my exams, from blood work to tests of my organs
from the liver, kidneys to the heart came out well,” Chavez
said today on state television by telephone from  Havana . “I’m
gaining weight again and in very high spirits.”  Chavez, a 57-year-old former paratrooper, has ruled  South
America ’s largest oil-producing country since 1999. He has vowed
to run for re-election next year and win another six-year term,
which would end in 2019. Chavez was operated on to remove a
“baseball-sized” tumor from his pelvis on June 20. The
government has declined to release further details on his
health, including what kind of cancer he is fighting.  ‘Not Immune’  On Aug. 6, before leaving for Cuba, Chavez said that the
economic crisis stemming from the credit downgrade of the U.S.
and sovereign debt problems in  Europe  will surely impact the
country as oil prices fall.  “We’re working to unhinge ourselves from the hegemonic
capitalist system. It’s not easy, we’re not immune,” Chavez
said the day of his departure. “Of course we can get hit by the
fall in  oil prices , it already started. But we have
international reserves to guarantee economic and social
stability in the country.”  Venezuela, a country of about 29 million people, had $29.3
billion of reserves on Aug. 4, according to the central bank.
The average price of Venezuela’s oil and refined products for
export fell to $103.45 a barrel on Aug. 5, from $107.84 a week
earlier, according to the Oil Ministry.  Yields on the government’s benchmark 9.25 percent bonds
maturing in 2027 rose 35 basis points to 13.72 percent today at
11:57 a.m. in  New York  today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The price fell 1.75 cents on the dollar to 71.25
cents, the lowest since June 21.  In a taped interview yesterday on the Televen network,
Chavez revealed for the first time that he cried alone on June
18 after being told he had cancer by former Cuban leader  Fidel Castro .  ‘New Chavez’  “I cried for my children,” Chavez, who is divorced with
four children, said. “After I cried in the bathroom, I told
myself, ‘this is nothing I can’t handle,’ and I accepted it.”  The ruler said cancer has been like a rebirth, giving life
to a “new Chavez.” He said he ignored the pain he began
feeling at the end of last year, desperately wanting to
celebrate Venezuela’s bicentennial and a summit of Latin
American and Caribbean leaders July 5 before submitting to
medical care.  Castro told the South American leader he would survive the
cancer just as he had overcome an attempted coup in 2002, Chavez
said.  Chavez also said he would win next year’s presidential
election, although perhaps by a small margin. “I’m betting the
revolution’s fate on the organization of the people and civic-
military union. The election is just one more event,” Chavez
said.  Chavez said  Venezuela  remains stable. He also said his
supporters must stay alert because of a permanent U.S. threat
against his government.  Asked by former Venezuelan Vice President Jose Vicente Rangel, the journalist interviewing him, how he would like to
die, Chavez said, “I wouldn’t like to die.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  