-- 
VIX, Global Volatility Gauges Soar After S&P Lowers U.S. Rating

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i ,   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-08-08T13:45:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/vix-global-volatility-gauges-soar-after-s-p-lowers-u-s-rating.html
Volatility indexes soared around the
world, lifting the VIX for a third day and sending Europe’s
gauge toward a record ninth-straight gain, after  Standard &
Poor’s  stripped the U.S. of its top  credit rating .  The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index is known, advanced 11 percent to 35.45 at 9:42 a.m. in New
York. Europe’s VStoxx Index climbed 8.7 percent to 42.68 and
Hong Kong’s HSI Volatility Index advanced 6.1 percent to 35.93,
both rising to the highest since May 2010.  Korea ’s Kospi 200
Volatility Index surged as much as 59 percent for the biggest
intraday gain in its eight-year history. The India VIX rose 16
percent to 28.78, its highest level since June 2010.  “We’re in one of the most interesting times in financial
history and everyone is grasping for something to hold onto but
no one knows, because this is unprecedented,” Brenna Hardman, a
derivatives broker at MEB Options LLC, said in a telephone
interview from the CBOE floor. “You’re going to see the market
whip around quite a bit as everyone looks for leadership. The
market is so sensitive right now.”  Stocks tumbled from  Hong Kong  to Mumbai and  Frankfurt ,
sending benchmark Asian and European indexes down as much as 20
percent from their peaks, as the U.S. downgrade, coupled with a
deepening euro-region sovereign debt crisis, lifted demand for
options to protect stocks from more losses. Morgan Stanley, the
sixth largest  U.S. bank  by assets, said the cut may have a
“material adverse” impact on financial markets.  S&P Downgrade  S&P lowered the long-term credit rating of the world’s
largest economy to AA+ from AAA after U.S. equity markets closed
on Aug. 5. S&P said it cut the credit rating because a deal
struck last week to raise the federal debt ceiling and cut the
budget didn’t go far enough and the agency now believes the
political divide in  Washington  is such that meaningful progress
on debt-reduction is less likely than previously assumed.  The S&P 500 tumbled 1.7 percent to 1,179.30 on concern
consumer and business confidence will deteriorate. The Stoxx
 Europe  600 Index dropped 2 percent to 234.10. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index, which entered a so-called correction last week
after falling more than 10 percent from a May peak, lost 2.6
percent to 122.84.  “We’re in for another stomach-churning week,” Nick Maroutsos, a Sydney-based  money manager  who oversees the
equivalent of about $4 billion at Kapstream Capital, said on
Bloomberg Television’s “First Up” with Susan Li today. “This
is a life-changing event in many respects because no-one has
ever seen the U.S. have a double-A status. We’re going to see a
lot of volatility this week.”  Volatility soared last week before the credit-rating cut as
investors snapped up options to protect stocks amid growing
concern the U.S. may slip into a recession and that Europe can’t
contain its sovereign-debt crisis.  Volatility Spikes  “Sovereign U.S. debt rating changes will feed into the
high volatility that we are in,” Gaurav Mehta, a derivatives
analyst at Mumbai-based brokerage Ambit Capital, said in a
telephone interview. “We expect India VIX to spike all the way
to 35.”  The measure of Indian option prices has averaged 20.73 over
the past year, according to Bloomberg data.  The HSI Volatility Index of options of the  Hang Seng Index 
surged 56 percent on Aug. 5, the biggest one-day gain in its
decade-long history. The gauge has almost doubled in the past
week. The  VStoxx Index (V2X)  of Euro Stoxx 50 options prices extended
its longest rising streak on record after jumping 42 percent
last week. The European stock index today fell 2 percent for a
record 11th straight day of loss.  Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said
yesterday he expects stocks will keep slumping after S&P cut the
U.S. credit rating.  “Considering the momentum in which the market went down
over the last week, it is very unlikely, if history is any
guide, that this isn’t going to take a while to bottom out,”
Greenspan told NBC’s “Meet the Press” program.  U.S. stocks have slumped for two straight weeks as reports
on manufacturing and consumer spending showed the world’s
largest economy is slowing. The  S&P 500  has retreated 11 percent
since July 22, the biggest loss over the same amount of time
since March 2009, when the equity bull market began.  More than 39 million options on stocks, indexes and
exchange-traded funds changed hands on U.S. exchanges on Aug. 5,
according to a preliminary tally by the Chicago-based OCC, which
settles all trades. That topped an Aug. 4 record of 36.1 million
contracts and a prior high before this week of 30.8 million on
May 6, 2010, when a 20-minute rout erased $862 billion from the
value of U.S. shares before stocks rebounded.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in  New York  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 