-- 
Walker Union Fight Intensifies as Wisconsin’s Recalls Threaten Republicans

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-08-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/walker-union-fight-intensifies-as-wisconsin-s-recalls-threaten-republicans.html
Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker  knows
how to attract crowds -- especially shouting, fist-shaking ones
waving recall placards and clamoring for his political scalp.  Twenty-six new governors took office in January, and none
has incited a stronger backlash than Republican Walker, 43, the
Harley-riding preacher’s son who, barely six weeks in office,
provoked tens of thousands of protesters to converge on the
Capitol in Madison.  Voters often say they want decisive action from their
leaders, and that’s what they got in Wisconsin. One result is
six recall elections tomorrow against Republican state senators
who supported Walker’s bill curbing collective bargaining rights
for most public employees.  “He’s the hated real deal for the Democrats and the adored
real deal for the Republicans,”  Charles Franklin , a political
science professor at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, said
in a telephone interview. “That’s the dilemma he faces. He’s a
genuinely polarizing figure.”  While Walker’s name is not on any of the ballots, his
agenda provoked the record number of recall elections, and they
are seen as a referendum on his policies, Franklin said. If
Republicans suffer a net loss of three seats, Democrats will
control the state Senate, blunting Walker’s agenda.  $30 Million  The nonpartisan  Wisconsin Democracy Campaign  predicts $30
million will be spent by pro- and anti-recall forces on
tomorrow’s elections, most from outside interest groups eager to
influence a fight that embodies national political divisions.
Two of 14 Democrats who left the state to try to block a vote on
Walker’s collective bargaining bill face separate recall votes
on Aug. 16.  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , also a Republican, drew
national attention by challenging teacher unions in his state.
In Wisconsin, Walker has been battling public employee unions
and their compensation packages for almost a decade, starting
with his election as  Milwaukee  County executive in 2002.  “He believes unions are the biggest problem government
has,” said Milwaukee County Supervisor Lynne DeBruin, who
worked with Walker for eight years and considers herself a
fiscally conservative Democrat. “I was not surprised to see him
go after them, big-time.”  Democratic Opponent  Most public employee unions supported Walker’s Democratic
opponent, Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett, in the 2010 election.
Walker mobilized Republican majorities in the Wisconsin
Legislature to eliminate a two-year, $3.6 billion  budget deficit 
by cutting spending and not raising taxes. The signature move
was his unexpected plan to curb collective bargaining for public
employee unions other than those representing police and
firefighters.  “We went in to solve our problems in Wisconsin and we
did,” Walker said in a July 16 interview on Bloomberg TV in
Salt Lake City. “Anytime you have a crisis you can either let
it overcome you or you can take it head-on.”  The governor was unavailable to comment for this article,
said his press secretary, Cullen Werwie.  “Recall Walker” bumper stickers are a common sight on
automobiles, even though, under state law, the governor cannot
be removed until he’s been in office for one year. As Walker
spoke at Devil’s Lake State Park on June 27, a sailboat floated
behind him with “RECALL WALKER” emblazoned on the mainsail.
Booing protesters confronted him at the reopening of a highway
rest stop in Beloit on July 19, also demanding his recall.  Government Role  The Colorado-born Walker represents a voting bloc that
believes government is too big and intrusive, taxes are too high
and entitlement and social service costs are unsustainable.
These forces helped elect Republican governor candidates  Rick Scott  in  Florida , Nikki Haley in  South Carolina ,  John Kasich  in
 Ohio  and  Rick Snyder  in  Michigan  in elections in November.  Walker is “very personable, very intelligent and very
articulate, and he rarely tells you what he’s thinking,”
DeBruin said in a telephone interview from Milwaukee. “He’s not
someone who needs the adulation of 30 people around him. He’d
rather go down with the sinking ship than moderate.”  This is a departure for Wisconsin, a state with a moderate
political legacy defined by former governor and U.S. Senator
Robert M. La Follette, a Republican who ran for president in
1924 on the Progressive Party ticket.  While New York’s Democratic Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
negotiated concessions from his state public employee unions,
Walker pushed the changes through the Legislature. He signed the
bill March 11, and the state  Supreme Court  overruled a lower
court decision June 15 that had blocked the measure.  ‘Warm and Fuzzy’  “Compromise is nice. It’s warm and fuzzy but in politics
it’s not always achievable,” said Milwaukee County Sheriff
 David Clarke , a Walker supporter. “He’s willing to upset people
who voted for him in the last election. The recall elections are
indicative of the anger he created, not just from the left but
the middle as well.”  Wisconsin ’s borrowing costs have dropped since Walker took
office in January. The extra yield demanded to hold the state’s
AA rated debt due in 2019 narrowed to 0.11 percentage point Aug.
3 above an index of AA+ rated general obligation 7-year debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 0.37
point above the index Dec. 27.  Joseph Rice, a Milwaukee County supervisor, said Walker has
“deeply held” views on the role of government and a
sensitivity to what taxpayers can afford. He said Walker went
after “decades-old problems” to fix state government.  “Sometimes reforms are not easy to swallow,” Rice said.  59% Disapprove  A  University of Wisconsin  Survey Center  poll  released July
13 reported 59 percent of state residents disapprove of Walker’s
job performance. Sixty-two percent of Independents said they
disapprove.  “His objective seems to be to flatten the middle class and
teachers and funnel the money to big business on the foolish
thought that they’ll create jobs,” said Robert Rienzi, an
accountant who lives in the Milwaukee suburb of Shorewood and
has two recall signs in his front yard -- one for Walker and one
for his state senator, Republican Alberta Darling.  Walker ran on an anti-tax, pro-business platform and a
pledge to make government employees pay more for their pensions
and health care and won with 52 percent of the vote. He didn’t
make collective bargaining curbs an issue.  “Here in Wisconsin, we don’t need a seating chart to bring
Republicans and Democrats together -- all we need are the  Green
Bay Packers ,” Walker said in a conciliatory Feb. 1 state of the
state  message , referring to the National Football League team’s
Super Bowl appearance that month.  ‘Dropped the Bomb’  Six days later Walker “dropped the bomb,” as he said, on
his cabinet, unveiling the collective bargaining proposal.  In a February taped conversation Walker had with a liberal
blogger posing as businessman and conservative activist  David Koch , the governor compared his proposal to then President
 Ronald Reagan ’s firing of air traffic controllers in 1981.  “This is our moment,” Walker said to blogger Ian Murphy,
who goes by the name Buffalo Beast. “If they think I’m caving
they’ve been asleep for the last eight years because I’ve taken
on every major battle in Milwaukee County and won, even in a
county where I’m overwhelmingly overpowered, and because I don’t
budge.”  Walker has collected $2.5 million this year in his
political war chest, in anticipation of a recall vote next year,
which would occur if opponents collect 540,000 valid signatures
within 60 days. Walker said July 16 if the debate is whether his
changes have worked, “I think we win,” he said.  The outcome of tomorrow’s vote will hinge on turnout and
will put Walker’s agenda and his certitude to test, said Joe
Heim, a professor of political science and public administration
at the University of Wisconsin - La Crosse.  “He was the right person at the right time last
November,” Heim said. “But he’s divided the state in a manner
that no previous governor has done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  