-- 
Wallabies Add Forwards to Tri-Nations Squad as Springboks Recall Brussow

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-08-08T00:54:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/wallabies-add-forwards-to-tri-nations-squad-as-springboks-recall-brussow.html
Australia  added prop Salesi Ma’afu
and No. 8 Radike Samo to its rugby squad to face  South Africa  in
the Tri-Nations following a 16-point loss against New Zealand
two days ago.  The 26-man roster, which also included second-rower  Nathan Sharpe , arrived in Durban last night ahead of the Aug. 13 match
at King’s Park. Australia coach  Robbie Deans  released lock Dan Vickerman from the squad that fell to a 30-14 loss at Eden Park
in Auckland.  The Wallabies, who last won the southern hemisphere’s
annual championship in 2001, trail the All Blacks by four points
in the standings following their 12th straight loss at Eden Park,
which will stage this year’s Rugby  World Cup  final. Australia
was upset by Samoa in its season-opening Test on July 17 before
beating South Africa six days later.  “We haven’t been able to get the momentum we’d like
leading into a World Cup, but we’ve still got two good
opportunities,” Wallabies prop Ben Alexander told reporters.
“All our games at the World Cup will be away from home. So if
we can get a good win this weekend in a hostile environment, I
think that will go a long way towards rebuilding our confidence
and get us going again.”  South Africa suffered back-to-back losses last month in
Australia and New Zealand. The Springboks left 21 frontline
players at home for the Tri-Nations away games, citing injuries
and the need to rehabilitate them before the team begins the
defense of its world title.  South Africa selectors yesterday added flanker Heinrich
Brussow to its squad for the two home matches. The Tri-Nations
has been truncated this year because of the Sept. 9-Oct. 23
World Cup, which will be hosted by  New Zealand .  Brussow, who was out of action for almost two months
because a hamstring strain, was called up after coming through a
domestic Currie Cup match two days ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 