-- 
Wells Fargo, Mariner Energy, Langford, BofA, SAC, Facebook in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-08-08T10:26:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/wells-fargo-mariner-energy-langford-bofa-sac-facebook-in-court-news.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S.
home lender, said it reached a $590 million settlement in
principle with plaintiffs who claimed in a lawsuit that Wachovia
Corp. misled investors.  The accord, subject to court approval, is reflected in the
bank’s financial statements and “will not have a material
adverse effect on Wells Fargo’s consolidated financial
position,” according to a regulatory filing Aug. 5 by the San
Francisco-based company. Wells Fargo acquired Wachovia in 2008.  Investors had accused Wachovia of making misleading
disclosures relating to the sale of securities between 2006 and
2008, according to the complaint. The statements related to the
quality of assets linked to the mortgage portfolio of Golden
West Financial, a California home lender it had acquired.  “Wells Fargo agreed to this settlement in order to avoid
the distraction, risk and expense of on-going litigation,” Mary
Eshet, a spokeswoman for the bank, said in an e-mailed
statement. “The settlement agreement does not constitute an
admission of Wells Fargo of liability or any violation of law by
Wachovia.”  Accounting firm KPMG LLP, which did auditing work for
Wachovia and was also listed as a defendant, reached a $37
million settlement, according to a statement Aug. 5 from law
firms representing the plaintiffs. “We’ve agreed to settle to
avoid the cost of litigation and to put this matter behind us,”
George Ledwith, a KPMG spokesman, said in a phone interview.  Wachovia, in marketing 30 separate bond and preferred
security sales totaling more than $35 billion, referred to the
“pristine” quality and conservative underwriting of its Pick-
A-Pay portfolio, and the adequacy of loss reserves and capital,
which ultimately proved untrue, according to the complaint.
Pick-A-Pay loans, or option-ARMs, let homeowners defer some
payments on adjustable-rate home loans and add them to the
principal.  “We believe that these settlements reflect an outstanding
result for bond and preferred-security purchasers who were
damaged as a result of false and misleading offering
materials,” the attorneys representing investors wrote in their
joint statement.  For more, click here.  Ex-Mariner Energy Director Admits Passing Merger Tip to Son  A former director of  Mariner Energy Inc. (ME)  pleaded guilty to
passing inside information about the company’s planned
acquisition by  Apache Corp. (APA)  to his son.  H. Clayton Peterson of Denver, a former Arthur Andersen
partner who also served on the board of Re/Max International
Inc., pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud Aug. 5
in Manhattan federal court. His son, Drew, also pleaded guilty
Aug. 5.  Clayton Peterson, who was appointed to Mariner’s board in
March 2006, said he passed information about the planned
transaction in April 2010 to his son, who traded on the tip.  “I knew that my actions were wrong and I deeply regret my
conduct,” Clayton Peterson, 65, told U.S. District Judge Robert
Patterson. “It has ruined my life and my son’s life and I
apologize.”  Clayton Peterson faces as much as 20 years in prison for
securities fraud and five years for conspiracy. He was ordered
released on $500,000 bond.  For more, click here.  Ex-Alabama County Official Langford Loses Bribe Case Appeal  Larry P. Langford, a former Birmingham, Alabama, mayor and
Jefferson County Commission president serving a prison term for
bribery, lost an appeal of his convictions.  The decision was posted Aug. 5 by the federal appeals court
in Atlanta.  Langford, 63, is serving a 15-year prison term for taking
bribes in connection with the refinancing of sewer debt when he
headed the county commission. He was removed as mayor when he
was convicted in 2009.  Jurors found Langford solicited cash, loan payoffs and
designer suits from William Blount, former head of a securities
firm in Montgomery, Alabama, and Albert LaPierre, a consultant,
in return for bring Blount into sewer-system refinancing.  “The evidence of Langford’s guilt in accepting many bribes
-- including testimony by Blount, corroborated by extensive
documentation, that he paid Langford $240,000 in cash, clothing
and jewelry so that Blount’s investment-banking firm would
receive millions of dollars’ worth of fees from financial
transactions in Jefferson County -- was overwhelming,” the
appeals court said in its opinion.  Michael Rasmussen, an attorney for Langford, declined to
comment on the ruling, saying he hadn’t yet read it.  Jefferson County, with its seat in Birmingham, defaulted on
sewer bonds in 2008 after the financial crisis pushed up the
cost of the floating-rate debt and triggered an early repayment
clause it couldn’t afford.  It is negotiating with creditors to avert what would be
the largest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history.  The case is U.S. v. Langford, 7:08-cr-00245, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham). The appeal is
U.S. v. Langford, 10-11076, U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th
Circuit (Atlanta).  For more, click here.  U.S. Again Asks Judge to Clear Comcast-NBC Merger Accord  The U.S.  Justice Department  urged a federal court to
approve the settlement outlining conditions for permitting
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s takeover of NBC Universal in response to a
judge’s threat to block the deal.  The Justice Department defended an “alternative
arbitration mechanism” through which online video distributors
could get content from Comcast-NBC following criticism last
month from U.S. District Judge Richard Leon in Washington. Leon
said at a July 27 hearing he was concerned that an arbitration
process to be overseen by the department wouldn’t allow appeals.  The process, which would use an outside, neutral
arbitrator, provides a “speedier and less costly alternative,”
the Justice Department said in court filing Aug. 5. The online
video distributors would still have the option of arbitration
overseen by the Federal Communications Commission, whose
decisions can be appealed, according to the filing.  Comcast’s proposed acquisition of NBC Universal won
approval Jan. 18 from U.S. regulators, under an agreement with
the FCC and the Justice Department that imposed conditions
designed to protect the emerging online-video market. The
settlement is pending final approval by Leon.  “I’m giving you fair notice I am not sure I am going to
sign this,” Leon said at the July 27 hearing. “This not a fait
accompli, not in this court.”  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  BofA’s ReconTrust Sued Over Washington Foreclosure Actions  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s ReconTrust unit failed to conduct
foreclosures as a neutral third party as required by law,
Washington state Attorney General Rob McKenna said in a lawsuit.  ReconTrust, which acted as a trustee handling foreclosures,
had a duty to act in good faith to borrowers as well as lenders,
McKenna said Aug. 5 at a press conference announcing the suit.
ReconTrust also concealed or misrepresented the actual owner of
the debt when handling foreclosures, according to the complaint
filed in state court in Seattle.  The lawsuit follows an investigation of Washington
trustees’ foreclosure practices, including faulty documentation.
McKenna said the lawsuit was filed because ReconTrust didn’t
take corrective actions to change its ways.  “They have left us with no choice,” McKenna said.  “We
will have the full attention of ReconTrust and its owner, Bank
of America, and they will be more interested in sitting down and
making things right.”  “ReconTrust operates in compliance with applicable state
and federal laws,” Jumana Bauwens, a spokeswoman for Charlotte,
North Carolina-based Bank of America, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “We disagree with the Attorney General’s concerns on this
issue and will vigorously defend the services of ReconTrust
against this challenge,” she said. “We make every effort to
reach out to delinquent customers to offer home retention
options as well as foreclosure avoidance programs.  Foreclosure
is always our last resort.”  Washington is a so-called nonjudicial foreclosure state,
where courts don’t review documents and banks hire trustees to
handle home seizures.  The state is seeking civil penalties of $2,000 a violation
and the complaint alleges thousands of violations, McKenna said.
The lawsuit also is seeking restitution for homeowners who
unfairly lost their properties.  The case is Washington v. ReconTrust Co., 11-26867-5,
Superior Court, King County, Washington (Seattle).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  U.S. District Court Must Decide Lehman Claims, JPMorgan Says  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , sued for $8.6 billion by bankrupt
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., said the defunct firm’s common-
law claims against it must be decided by a U.S. district court
judge rather than a bankruptcy judge.  In a court filing Aug. 5 in Manhattan, the New York-based
bank said the U.S. Supreme Court ruling in the Anna Nicole Smith
case limited the power of bankruptcy judges to rule on such
claims.  JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S. bank, has been fighting
Lehman’s suit in bankruptcy court, fending off demands for the
return of $8.6 billion in collateral, plus “tens of billions”
in damages for allegedly accelerating the former investment
bank’s demise. After the ruling in the Smith case, a district
judge must determine damage claims brought under  New York  state
law, JPMorgan said in the filing.  “Those claims, through which plaintiffs seek to augment
the estate by recovering damages for JPMorgan’s alleged
misconduct in precipitating LBHI’s bankruptcy filing, are
legally indistinguishable from the state-law tortuous
interference counterclaim in Stern,” the bank said, referring
to the Supreme Court case known as Stern v. Marshall.  Recent rulings by higher courts have left bankruptcy cases
in disarray. U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff threw out demands by
the liquidator of Bernard Madoff’s firm for billions of dollars
in damages from London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)  The Supreme
Court’s June decision limited bankruptcy courts’ ability to rule
on state-law claims as well as ending any chance for heirs of
Smith, a former Playboy model, to collect a $449 million
judgment against the estate of J. Howard Marshall, the Texas
billionaire to whom she had been married.  According to JPMorgan, Lehman’s demand for return of the
collateral can’t be decided by a bankruptcy judge either. Those
claims were made to pad out bankrupt Lehman’s estate, and “fall
outside the claims-allowance process” that is the business of a
bankruptcy court, it said.  Lehman disagreed about the impact of Stern v. Marshall.  “The Stern court left untouched the bankruptcy courts’
authority to enter final judgments on common-law claims” that
stem from the bankruptcy, it said in a filing.  The Lehman suit is  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, 10-03266, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Amaranth Suit Against JPMorgan Chase Dismissed by Judge  Amaranth Advisors LLC, the commodities fund that collapsed
in 2006, can’t proceed with a lawsuit claiming JPMorgan Chase &
Co. executives helped cause its demise by sabotaging a bailout
by Citadel Investment Group LLC, a judge ruled.  The hedge fund, which lost $2 billion in September 2006 on
natural gas futures and derivatives bets that went awry, can’t
press its claim that JPMorgan officials interfered with its
Citadel deal by casting aspersions on Amaranth’s financial
condition, New York Supreme Court Judge O. Peter Sherwood
concluded.  Amaranth officials can’t prove two JPMorgan executives’
statements were the reason Citadel officials decided to cancel
the bailout effort, Sherwood said in a nine-page ruling Aug. 5.  “We disagree with the court’s conclusion and plan to
appeal,” J.B. Heaton, a Chicago-based lawyer for Amaranth, said
in a telephone interview. Jennifer Zuccarelli, a JPMorgan
spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return a call for comment on
Sherwood’s ruling.  The case is Amaranth LLC v. JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
603756/2007, New York state Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  WaMu Bank’s Failure Won’t Result in Criminal Charges  Washington Mutual Bank’s failure, the biggest in U.S.
history, won’t result in criminal charges against its former
executives, U.S. Attorney Jenny A. Durkan in Seattle said.  A federal investigation of the bank’s collapse included
hundreds of interviews and a review of millions of documents
concerning its operations, Durkan and the Justice Department
said Aug. 5 in an e-mailed statement.  “The evidence does not meet the exacting standards for
criminal charges in connection with the bank’s failure,”
according to the statement.  The bank, the operating unit of  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) , was
seized by regulators on Sept. 25, 2008, and sold to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. for $1.9 billion. The bank had more than 2,200
branches and $188 billion in deposits. The following day, the
parent company filed for bankruptcy.  Former U.S. Attorney Jeffrey Sullivan in Seattle, citing
“intense public interest” in the bank’s failure, said in
October 2008 that his office had created a task force working
with investigators from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the Internal Revenue Service to investigate its
collapse.  Andrew C. Irgens, a lawyer representing Washington Mutual
Inc. in its bankruptcy case, didn’t immediately return a call
and e-mail seeking comment after regular business hours Aug. 5.  Federal prosecutors continue to cooperate with the FDIC in
a lawsuit against three former Washington Mutual executives,
according to the statement.  In that case, the FDIC accuses former Washington Mutual
Inc. Chief Executive Officer Kerry Killinger, former Chief
Operating Officer Stephen Rotella and David Schneider, the
bank’s former home-loans president, of taking extreme risks with
the bank unit’s home-loans portfolio, causing billions of
dollars in losses.  The FDIC accuses the executives of disregarding the bank’s
long-term safety and fixating on rewarding themselves. The men
received more than $95 million in compensation from January 2005
to September 2008, according to the suit.  The FDIC case is FDIC v. Killinger, 11-00459, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Washington (Seattle). The bankruptcy
case is In re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-12229, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Cohen, SAC Should Be Dropped From Fairfax Suit, Lawyer Says  Billionaire  Steven A. Cohen  and his SAC Capital Advisors LP
should be dropped from a lawsuit accusing it and other hedge
funds of conspiring to spread negative information about  Fairfax
Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH) , a lawyer argued in court.  Fairfax, a Toronto-based insurer, sued the hedge funds in
2006, alleging they acted to harm the company because they were
betting its stock price would decline. Fairfax seeks more than
$8 billion in damages.  “We simply didn’t do anything to injure Fairfax,” Martin
B. Klotz, a lawyer for Cohen and SAC Capital, told New Jersey
Superior Court Judge Stephan C. Hansbury Aug. 5 in Morristown.
“We did nothing to participate in the enterprise alleged
here.”  Fairfax alleges that the funds coaxed John Gwynn, a former
insurance analyst at Morgan Keegan & Co. in Memphis, Tennessee,
into giving them his negative Fairfax reports before they were
published. It also says the funds disseminated false information
about the company to the media, the government and ratings
services.  The hedge funds named in the suit, including Stamford,
Connecticut-based SAC Capital, James Chanos’s New York-based
Kynikos Associates LP and Daniel Loeb’s New York-based Third
Point LLC, have denied Fairfax’s accusations.  Lawyers for Fairfax are scheduled to argue later against
the request by Cohen and SAC Capital that Hansbury rule in their
favor without the need of a trial.  The case is Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. v. SAC Capital
Management LLC, L-2032-06, Superior Court of New Jersey, Morris
County (Morristown).  For more, click here.  Facebook Says Ceglia Computers Show ‘Smoking Gun’ of Fraud  Facebook Inc. said its inspection of computers turned over
by  Paul Ceglia , the western New York man who claims he’s
entitled to half of Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg’s
holdings in the social-networking company, shows “smoking gun”
evidence of fraud.  Ceglia sued Facebook and Zuckerberg last year, claiming
that a two-page contract Zuckerberg signed in 2003 gave Ceglia
half of the company when the service was started the following
year. Since then, Palo Alto, California-based Facebook has grown
to become the world’s biggest social-networking site.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Leslie Foschio in Buffalo, New York,
last month ordered Ceglia to let Facebook run forensic tests on
his computers, hard drives and electronic storage media, as well
as on the contract and the e-mail he says support his claim.  “Defendants have uncovered smoking-gun evidence that the
purported contract at the heart of this case is a fabrication,”
Facebook said in its court filing Aug. 4.  In a publicly filed version of the motion papers, Facebook,
citing a confidentiality order in the case, didn’t identify the
evidence it says was “embedded in the electronic data on
Ceglia’s computer.”  Paul Argentieri, a lawyer for Ceglia, declined to comment
on Facebook’s claim, citing Foschio’s July 13 confidentiality
order.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  For more, click here.  Dowler Lawyer Says Reporters Admit Phone Tapping Knowledge  As many as two dozen U.K. reporters at more than one
newspaper admit they knew phone-hacking occurred, according to a
lawyer for potential victims of privacy breaches by  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
News of the World tabloid.  “Sources” at three U.K. police forces also told the
lawyer,  Mark Lewis  of Taylor Hampton Solicitors Ltd., that they
knew of officers providing journalists information in exchange
for payments, he said in an interview in his office in  London .  While the phone-hacking scandal has mostly affected News
Corp., U.K. lawmakers called Aug. 4 for  Piers Morgan , the host
of CNN’s “Tonight” show and a former editor of the Daily
Mirror, to return to Britain to answer questions.  That request came after singer Paul McCartney’s ex-wife
Heather Mills told the British Broadcasting Corp. that their
phone had been hacked. McCartney told a group of U.S. television
critics Aug. 4 that he planned to contact U.K. police about
Mills’s claims, the Telegraph reported.  “It used to be that every journalist who phoned up would
say ‘yeah, this used to happen -- of course I never did it’,”
said Lewis, who represents the family of murdered schoolgirl
Milly Dowler, whose phone was hacked. He said between a dozen
and two dozen journalists had told him they knew of hacking
instances. “Everyone knew it happened.”  Lewis declined to name the publications whose journalists
had phoned him, or the police officers implicated in corrupt
payments. A spokesman for London’s Metropolitan Police said the
force won’t comment on speculation.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News Corp.’s News
International U.K. publishing unit, didn’t return a call for
comment.  The scandal has snowballed since 2007, when News of the
World royal reporter Clive Goodman and private investigator
Glenn Mulcaire were jailed for phone hacking. Police are probing
the extent of phone and computer hacking by journalists and
illegal payments to officers, while Prime Minister David Cameron
last month announced a public inquiry into the saga that will
investigate whether other papers hacked phones.  For more, click here.  Stanford Liquidators Win Bid to Get $20 Million in U.K. Assets  Stanford International Bank’s liquidators won a bid to gain
access to $20 million of assets frozen in the U.K.  Grant Thornton  LLP, which is liquidating the Antigua-based
bank, will use the money to fund its plan to recover assets for
victims of R. Allen Stanford’s alleged Ponzi scheme. Judge
Elizabeth Gloster ordered Aug. 4 the release of $20 million,
with $5 million to be made available to Grant Thornton
immediately.  Stanford, 61, faces civil and criminal allegations that he
defrauded investors of more than $7 billion using bogus
certificates of deposit issued by Stanford International Bank.
Stanford denies the claims. His criminal trial was postponed
until January 2012 because of health problems.  About $100 million of Stanford International Bank’s assets
are held in the U.K. in various hedge funds. The money has been
the subject of a legal battle over access to the funds. The U.K.
Serious Fraud Office wants to hand the assets to the U.S.
Department of Justice.  Grant Thornton said it will use the money to fund lawsuits
against banks and advisers who worked with Stanford. The
accounting firm also hopes to clawback funds from investors who
profited from the alleged fraud, its lawyers said.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest trial
and appeals news, click here.  Litigation Departments  News Corp. Director Leading Inquiry Has Ties to Murdochs  News Corp.’s independent directors, obligated to assess
 Rupert Murdoch  and other top executives’ handling of the
company’s phone-hacking scandal, are relying for guidance on
Viet Dinh, a board member with personal ties to the Murdoch
family.  Dinh, 43, is point man between the independent board
members and a panel that New York-based News Corp. created to
cooperate with authorities probing phone hacking by the defunct
News of the World tabloid and to evaluate company standards.  A Washington attorney and Georgetown University Law Center
professor, Dinh has been a friend of Chief Executive Officer
Rupert Murdoch’s oldest son Lachlan since 2003 and is godfather
to Lachlan’s second child. In 1992, a decade before they met,
the South China Morning Post, then owned by Murdoch, helped Dinh
free his sister from a Hong Kong refugee camp.  “Usually it’s required that an investigation like this is
undertaken by a committee of independent directors,” said Jay
Lorsch, a Harvard Business School professor who has served on
the boards of four publicly traded companies. “It’s very hard
to be objective if you’re involved in any way -- financially or
emotionally -- with the family of the chief executive you are
supposed to be supervising.”  Dinh will update directors on the scandal at an Aug. 9
board meeting in  Los Angeles , two people familiar with the
situation said. The “management and standards” committee,
established by News Corp. last month, reports to board member
and Executive Vice President Joel Klein, a former assistant U.S.
attorney general and New York City schools chief, who then
reports to Dinh, the company said in a July 18 statement.  Dinh declined to comment for this story, as did  Lachlan
Murdoch , who is an investor in Australian media companies and
has been a News Corp. board member since 1996. Teri Everett, a
News Corp. spokeswoman, had no comment.  For more, click here.  Allen & Overy Sues Nimbus for Legal Fees After Delayed IPO  Allen & Overy LLP, the U.K.’s third most profitable law
firm, sued Nimbus Communications Ltd., claiming the Indian media
company failed to pay some of its legal fees after delaying its
initial public offering.  Nimbus’s lawyer Chandra Mohan said Aug. 4 that the parties
are in negotiations. The London-based law firm is seeking
$226,490 from Nimbus for breach of contract, according to its
lawsuit filed with the Singapore High Court in February.  Allen & Overy -- through its former Singapore joint law
venture with Shook Lin & Bok LLP -- was the legal adviser to
Deutsche Equities India Pte and  Edelweiss Capital Ltd. (EDEL)  on the
proposed share sale. Nimbus was required to pay all legal fees
related to the IPO whether it was completed or not by Nov. 30,
2007, according to the lawsuit.  While Mumbai-based Nimbus has paid Allen & Overy $150,000,
an agreed fee cap was voided after the company missed deadlines
to file its draft prospectus to the Indian regulator and
complete the share sale, according to court filings. The law
firm’s fees ranged from $180 an hour for a paralegal to $675 for
a partner.  Nimbus hasn’t filed its response, Mohan said. Ken Aboud,
Allen & Overy’s managing partner in Singapore, declined to
comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Allen & Overy LLP v Nimbus Communications Ltd.
S101/2011 in the Singapore High Court.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 