-- 
Two Men’s Lawsuit on Treatment by Troops to Go Forward, Appeals Court Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-08-09T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/two-men-s-lawsuit-on-treatment-by-troops-to-go-forward-appeals-court-says.html
Former U.S. secretary of defense
 Donald Rumsfeld  must face a lawsuit filed against him by two
American men claiming they were wrongfully held and tortured by
U.S. forces in  Iraq .  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Chicago yesterday upheld a
lower court ruling last year allowing the men, Donald Vance and
Nathan Ertel, to pursue claims that Rumsfeld should be found
personally liable for their treatment.  Ertel and Vance, in a 2006 federal lawsuit, claimed they
were taken into custody, then held at the U.S. Army’s Camp
Cropper while working for Iraqi-owned Shield Group Security
after reporting to the U.S. what they believed was illegal
activity by their employer and American personnel.  “We conclude that plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged
that Secretary Rumsfeld acted deliberately in authorizing
interrogation techniques that amount to torture,” U.S. Circuit
Judge David Hamilton wrote for the three-judge panel.  Whether Vance and Ertel can actually prove that assertion
“remains to be seen,” the court said.  David B. Rivkin, a lawyer for the former defense secretary,
criticized the court ruling in a statement issued by Rumsfeld’s
office in  Washington . He said it endangers U.S. soldiers.  ‘Decision Is Troubling’  “Today’s decision by the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals
is a blow to the U.S. military,” Rivkin, a partner in
Cleveland-based Baker Hostetler LLP, said yesterday. “This
decision is troubling, particularly for the uniformed
personnel throughout the entire chain of command who are
defendants in this lawsuit. Having judges second-guess the
decisions made by the armed forces halfway around the world is
no way to wage a war.”  Charles Miller , a spokesman for the U.S. Justice
Department, said by phone he couldn’t immediately comment on the
court’s  decision . The department is representing Rumsfeld and
the U.S. in the case.  The defense was appealing a ruling last year by U.S.
District Judge Wayne Andersen in  Chicago . Rumsfeld resigned his
position in the Cabinet of President George W. Bush in December
2006.  “They had an important decision to make involving the
constitutional rights of citizens in the difficult context of a
wartime, which is when constitutional rights get strained,”
attorney Michael Kanovitz, who represents Vance and Ertel, said
by phone yesterday. “It made the correct choice to protect
those rights.”  Stripped of Access  Ertel, a native of  Virginia , had worked as a government
contractor for 13 years, according to the complaint. Vance, who
was born in  Illinois , had served in the U.S. Navy.  “Plaintiffs are not now, and never have been, terrorists
or enemies of the  United States ,” according to their complaint.
After reporting what they’d observed, they were stripped of
their access passes to  Baghdad ’s so-called Green Zone by other
Shield workers, requiring them to seek “rescue” by U.S. armed
forces in April 2006, according to last year’s ruling.  The men were then taken to the U.S. Embassy, separated,
questioned by FBI and military intelligence agents, and later
held in solitary confinement at Camp Cropper near Baghdad
International Airport, according to the complaint.  The men claimed they were subjected to sleep and food
deprivation, threats of violence, actual violence and prolonged
solitary confinement, according to last year’s decision.  In Solitary  Vance was held in solitary for three months, while Ertel
was kept in the same state for six weeks, according to
yesterday’s majority ruling, citing their complaint. They were
never charged with a crime.  The appellate panel rejected the plaintiffs’ claims for
lost personal property.  Agreeing with Andersen, the majority said it saw “no
persuasive justification” for depriving U.S. citizens “of a
civil judicial remedy “for torture or even cold-blooded murder
by federal officials and soldiers, at any level, in a war
zone.”  U.S. Circuit Judge Daniel Manion disagreed with the
majority’s conclusion that the men could pursue claims that
their constitutional rights were violated.  Rivkin argued before the appellate panel on behalf of
former U.S. Vice President and Defense Secretary  Dick Cheney ,
who served under presidents  George W. Bush  and  George H.W. Bush ,
and for former Defense Secretary William S. Cohen, who served
under President  Bill Clinton . Cheney and Cohen had filed a
friend-of-the-court brief, and weren’t parties to the lawsuit.  ‘Completely Deferential’  In his statement yesterday, Rivkin predicted the ruling
would be reversed.  No trial date has been set, Kanovitz said. Asked what his
clients sought as compensation, he replied, “They are
completely deferential to the jury. Whatever the jury thinks is
just.”  The lower case is Vance v. Rumsfeld, 06-cv-06964, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago). The
appellate case is Vance v. Rumsfeld, 10-1687 and 10-2442, 7th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  