-- 
Yen Strength Erodes Intervention as Swaps Show Haven Intact: Japan Credit

-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-08-09T04:57:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/yen-erodes-intervention-as-swaps-show-haven-intact-japan-credit.html
The yen has clawed back almost all of
its loss against the dollar last week when Japan carried out an
estimated 4.5 trillion ($58.4 billion) in sales of its currency,
underscoring the nation’s haven status for investors fleeing
debt crises in the U.S. and  Europe .  The yen has rallied in the past three days, coming within
1.1 percent of its record 76.25 against the dollar reached in
March, as  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. and the  European
Central Bank  was forced to buy Italian and Spanish bonds to
quell a sovereign-debt crisis. Japanese government bond risk
dropped to two-year low relative to its global peers.  Japan’s efforts to stem the yen’s gains have been
“partially reversed,” a development that is “credit
negative” for the nation’s recovery, Moody’s Investors Service
said in a report yesterday. The current-account surplus narrowed
in June by more than analysts forecast, data showed yesterday,
as the currency’s advance eroded exports.  “What we’re seeing is something like an ‘ugly-queen’
contest -- if you go for the least ugly one, you end up with
 Japan ,” Taketoshi Tsuchiya, Tokyo-based director of credit
trading at Barclays Capital Japan Ltd., said in an interview.  Contracts to insure Japan’s debt against default rose 0.5
basis points to 94.5 yesterday, while the average of 63
sovereigns climbed 4 basis points to 239. That widened the
premium over Japanese swaps to 144.5, highest since July 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Record Intervention  Bank of Japan  data last week showed that estimated deposits
it held in custody for financial institutions climbed to 32.3
trillion yen, suggesting the government engaged in a record 4.5
trillion yen of currency intervention, according to Yuichi
Takahashi, a Tokyo-based economist at money-market brokerage
Totan Research Co. Masaaki Kanno, chief economist at JPMorgan
Securities Japan Co., said in a report that an intervention
amount of about 4.56 trillion yen would be a “good guess,”
based on BOJ deposit data.  “Japan’s intervention hasn’t received good feedback,
judging from various reports, limiting its impact,” said
 Akitsugu Bandou , a senior economist in Tokyo at Okasan
Securities Co., one of the 25 primary dealers obliged to bid at
government debt sales. “Investors are reducing their positions
to buy on dips. The market will be stable because JGBs get
bought when yields go up.”  G-7 Statement  The yen tends to strengthen during economic and financial
turmoil because Japan’s trade surplus makes it less reliant on
foreign capital. The current-account surplus shrank 50.2 percent
from a year earlier to 527 billion yen in June, the  Finance
Ministry  said yesterday. The median estimate of 12 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 40.1 percent decline.  The yen reached 77.06 per dollar today, matching the
closing level on Aug. 3 a day before last week’s intervention
that drove currency to as weak as 80.24. The yield on Japan’s
benchmark 10-year government fell two basis points to 1.035
percent as of 1:46 p.m. in  Tokyo , after earlier touching 0.975
percent, the least since November.  Group of Seven ministers and central bank governors pledged
in a statement to “take all necessary measures to support
financial stability and growth.” Officials will inject
liquidity and act against disorderly currency moves as needed,
they said after a call on Aug. 7. The ECB said in a statement it
will “actively implement” its bond-purchase program.  “The Bank of Japan’s unilateral intervention may become
permissible as a result of the statement, with some in the
market even speculating a coordinated intervention may be
possible,” Keiji Matsumoto, a currency strategist in Tokyo at
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., said yesterday. “The market will
welcome the action to a certain degree as a measure to curb
excessive weakening of the dollar.”  Toyota Forecast  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the nation’s biggest carmaker, has said
that every one yen gain against the dollar cuts operating profit
by 34 billion yen, according to its current full-year outlook,
which is based on 80 yen to the dollar. Nissan Motor Co. and
Honda Motor Co. forecast the same  exchange rate .  The extra yield investors demand to own Japanese corporate
bonds instead of similar-maturity government debt was at 65
basis points yesterday from 27 basis points before a record
earthquake on March 11, according to Nomura Securities Co.’s
Bond Performance Index.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index of credit-default swaps
soared 9 basis points to 135 as of 9:12 a.m. in Tokyo, Deutsche
Bank AG prices show. The index has climbed from 98 basis points
a day before the quake, according to prices in  New York  from
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Government Action  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  Japan’s Vice Finance Minister Fumihiko Igarashi said
yesterday the government will take action if there’s excessive
speculation in the  currency markets , while they aren’t targeting
specific levels when intervening.  “While Japan’s external strengths insulate it from market
contagion, they attract capital seeking a safe haven from the
turmoil and uncertainties roiling the euro area and U.S.,”
 Thomas Byrne , senior vice president at Moody’s, wrote in a
report. “Even the apparently ample resources available to the
government of Japan will not be enough to forestall fundamental
market pressures in the global currency markets.”  ‘Negative Factors’  Japan’s gross domestic product will probably grow 4.3
percent in the third quarter and 5 percent in the fourth as the
nation recovers from the earthquake and tsunami that triggered a
nuclear crisis, according to a survey of 41 economists by the
government-affiliated Economic Planning Association. That would
follow three quarters of contraction.  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 1.3 percent annual rate in
the second quarter, after a 0.4 percent pace in the prior
period, the worst six months since the recovery began in June
2009, Commerce Department figures showed July 29.  “Negative factors such as the nuclear power issue and the
strong yen are coming one after another, but they can’t drive
the economy much lower than it already is,” Tsuchiya at
Barclays said about Japan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  