-- 
Yuan Advances Most in a Week on U.S. Downgrade, Record Fixing

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-08-08T09:20:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-08/yuan-jumps-most-since-april-on-u-s-rating-downgrade-pboc-s-record-fixing.html
China ’s yuan strengthened the most in
a week, touching a 17-year high, as a  Standard & Poor’s 
downgrade of the U.S. debt rating fueled speculation China will
rein in dollar purchases used to limit appreciation.  The People’s Bank of China raised its  reference rate  for
the currency by the most since November after S&P cut America’s
top credit rating by one level to AA+ on Aug. 5. The U.S. should
avoid letting its currency weaken or taking fresh monetary steps
that may worsen the dollar’s depreciation, Xinhua News Agency
said yesterday in a commentary. China is the biggest foreign
owner of Treasuries, holding $1.16 trillion of the securities as
of May, U.S. Treasury Department data show.  The yuan rose 0.07 percent to close at 6.4360 per dollar as
of 4:30 p.m. in  Shanghai , paring earlier gain of as much as 0.24
percent, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
The currency touched 6.4250, the strongest level since the
country unified official and market exchange rates at the end of
1993.  “Investors may have chosen to lock-in gains as they are
still wary of taking risks after the U.S. credit downgrade,”
said Carlos Cheung, a Hong Kong-based foreign-exchange dealer at
Bank of Communications Ltd. “From the fixing, you can see the
government doesn’t hesitate to appreciate the yuan.”  The People’s Bank of China set its daily fixing 0.23
percent higher at a record 6.4305 per dollar. The currency is
allowed to trade up to 0.5 percent on either side of the
official rate.  Foreign Reserves  In  Hong Kong ’s offshore market, the yuan appreciated 0.14
percent to 6.4265, based on data compiled by Bloomberg. Twelve-
month non-deliverable forwards appreciated 0.16 percent to
6.3782, a 0.9 percent premium to the onshore spot rate.  Premier Wen Jiabao is promoting the use of yuan in
international trade and finance to reduce the country’s reliance
on the dollar. China’s $3.2 trillion of foreign-exchange
reserves are the world’s largest. Brazil, India and  Russia  have
combined holdings of about $1.1 trillion.  China must stop buying dollars and allow the exchange rate
to be decided by market forces “as soon as possible,” Yu Yongding, a former central bank adviser, wrote in a commentary
in the Financial Times on Aug. 5. The nation’s accumulation of
dollar-denominated assets is vulnerable to devaluation of the
U.S. currency, he wrote.  “China may accept faster yuan appreciation as the downside
of holding U.S. dollar assets is greater than that of slower
export growth,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based
senior strategist at Credit Agricole SA.  Inflation Risk  The nation’s reserves have exceeded a “reasonable” level
and issuance of yuan for dollars flowing into the country is
putting pressure on efforts to control the  money supply ,
People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said April 18.
“The build-up could cause big risks,” he said, without
elaborating.  “The U.S. rating cut could be an opportunity for China to
step up efforts to increase the appeal of the yuan,” said Banny Lam, a Hong Kong-based economist at CCB International Securities.
“Yuan appreciation can also help to ease imported prices as
inflation remains at a high level.”  The yuan has risen 2.4 percent against the dollar this year
and will appreciate 2.2 percent to 6.30 per dollar by the end of
December, according to the median estimate of 30 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  China’s inflation held at a three-year high of 6.4 percent
in July, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg before government data is released tomorrow.
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said at the end of June that there would be
“difficulties” keeping the rate within the government’s 4
percent ceiling this year after it exceeded that level every
month in the first half.  “Inflation is the No. 1 concern,” said  Pu Yonghao , Hong
Kong-based chief investment strategist for Asia-Pacific at UBS
Wealth Management in a Bloomberg Television interview.
“Allowing the exchange rate to appreciate will help to contain
inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  