-- Amazon Apologizes for Christmas Eve Outage Affecting Netflix
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-12-31T19:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/amazon-apologizes-for-christmas-eve-disruption-affecting-netflix.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  apologized for a
Dec. 24 disruption in its cloud-computing services that hindered
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  customers from watching movies, and said it is
taking steps to prevent a recurrence.  Netflix said last week that many users in the Americas were
unable to access online content on Christmas Eve because of an
outage caused by Amazon’s Web storage and computing system.
Amazon didn’t identify Netflix in its  statement , which was
posted online on Dec. 29, according to Tera Randall, a
spokeswoman for Amazon Web Services.  “We want to apologize,” Seattle-based Amazon said. “We
know how critical our services are to our customers’ businesses,
and we know this disruption came at an inopportune time for some
of our customers.”  Amazon, the largest online retailer, has billed its 6-year-
old cloud-computing offering as a cheap and safe way for
customers to outsource their data centers. It’s a business that
may bring in about $1.5 billion in revenue for Amazon in 2012,
according to  Colin Sebastian , an analyst at Robert W. Baird &
Co. in  San Francisco . Occasional outages can undermine
confidence in the service, which makes it possible for companies
like Netflix to run their operations via the Internet.  While Amazon Web Services accounts for a fraction of the
$62 billion in sales analysts are projecting for the company in
2012, the business is more profitable than the retail
operations. The segment has about a 10 percent operating margin,
Sebastian said. That compares with a 1 percent  margin  expected
in 2012 for the entire company, according to the average of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Accidentally Deleted  The disruption began at at 12:24 p.m. Seattle time on Dec.
24 and continued until the following day, according to Amazon.
The problem was related to Amazon’s Elastic Load Balancing
service, which apportions demand for computing power among the
servers that are most able to handle the work loads.  Amazon said that data was accidentally deleted in a
maintenance process run by a small number of developers, which
prompted high latency and error rates for technology that
manages the load balancers. At the peak of the event, 6.8
percent of ELB load balancers were affected, the company said.  The outage occurred in the eastern U.S., where Amazon has 
data centers in northern  Virginia . That region was hit by storms
earlier this year that caused Netflix to lose control over 
streaming content for about three hours on June 29.  Amazon Web Services is used by companies in more than 190
countries, letting them rent servers for their websites, support
mobile applications and store customer data, according to
Amazon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  