-- AMF Bowling Executives Seek $1 Million in Bonuses
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-12-31T16:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/amf-bowling-executives-seek-1-million-in-bonuses.html
AMF Bowling Worldwide Inc., the
world’s largest bowling-alley operator, asked a bankruptcy judge
for permission to pay as much as $1.03 million in bonuses to
three executives after the company is sold or reorganized.  Chief Financial Officer Stephen Satterwhite would receive
as much as 150 percent of his annual salary if AMF’s earnings
exceed expectations or a buyer pays more than $350 million,
according to papers filed Dec. 28 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Richmond,  Virginia .  Controller Rachel Labrecque and General Counsel Daniel McCormack also would share in the bonus pool. The payments are
needed “to meet numerous challenging performance goals” and
the only probable opponents are unsecured creditors, AMF said.  AMF in November filed for court protection for the second
time in 11 years, seeking to implement a restructuring agreement
reached with holders of most of its $216 million in first-lien
debt and  iStar Financial Inc. (SFI) , the landlord for most of its
bowling centers. The restructuring is subject to competing
offers through a court-supervised auction.  In addition to the executives, AMF plans to pay as much as
$140,000 to six non-insider employees to keep them at the
company during the bankruptcy case, according to court papers.
AMF asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Huennekens to hold a
hearing Jan. 17 on the two bonus plans.  The company, based in Mechanicsville, Virginia, runs about
300 bowling centers with more than 20 million visitors a year,
according to its  website . AMF previously filed to reorganize in
July 2001 and exited with a confirmed Chapter 11 plan in
February 2002 by giving unsecured creditors 7.5 percent of the
new stock.  The case is In re AMF Bowling Worldwide Inc., 12-36495,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  