-- Eagles’ Andy Reid Won’t Return for 15th Season as Coach, AP Says
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-12-31T05:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/andy-reid-won-t-return-for-15th-season-as-eagles-coach-ap-says.html
Andy Reid  won’t return as coach of
the  Philadelphia Eagles  following the worst season of his 14-
year tenure, the  Associated Press  reported, citing three
unidentified people with knowledge of the situation.  Reid will meet with Eagles owner  Jeffrey Lurie  today to
discuss his future, which may include an advisory role in the
front office, one person told AP. Reid is due $6 million in
2013, the final year of his contract, the report said.  “Whatever he chooses will be the right thing,” Reid said
of Lurie at a news conference following yesterday’s 42-7 loss to
the  New York Giants . “He’s always done things for the best
interest of the Eagles and I completely understand either way.”  Reid, 54, has the longest tenure of any active National
Football League coach, a run that’s produced nine postseason
berths without a Super Bowl title. His dismissal would cap a
five-month stretch that began with the death of Reid’s oldest
son, Garrett, in his dorm room at the Eagles’ training camp from
what was later declared a heroin overdose.  The Eagles started this season 3-1 and then lost 11 of
their final 12 games, including an eight-game losing skid, to
finish 4-12 and in last place in their division.  “We weren’t very good,” Reid said. “Coaching, that’s my
responsibility, and playing, which is my responsibility, so
I take complete blame for the year. That’s what I get paid to do
and we weren’t good enough.”  Reid has led the team to 140 wins, the most for a coach in
franchise history. The Eagles won seven division titles under
Reid, with five National Football Conference championship game
appearances and a Super Bowl loss after the 2004 season.  After an 8-8 record in 2011, Lurie said it was the “most
disappointing season since I’ve owned the team,” and that the
franchise needed to improve in 2012 for Reid to keep his job.  “I have a lot of respect for Jeff Lurie,” Reid said
yesterday. “So I go in eyes wide open. Either way, I
understand. That’s how it is, this is the business that I’ve
chosen. I’ve been very fortunate to have been here as long as I
have and if I’m here again, I’ll love every minute of it. If I’m
not, I’ll understand that, too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  