-- Arizona Stadium Proving Trojan Horse for Taxpayers: Muni Credit
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-12-31T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/arizona-stadium-proving-trojan-horse-for-taxpayers-muni-credit.html
Glendale,  Arizona ’s bet on becoming
the Phoenix area’s sports and entertainment hub is resulting in
higher taxes, fired workers and rising penalties on its debt.  The city confronts new budget cuts after agreeing last
month to pay $308 million over the next 20 years to keep the
National Hockey League’s Phoenix Coyotes, which had the worst
attendance in the NHL last season. After downgrades by both
Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service that cited the
hockey payments, investors demanded a 7.5 percent higher penalty
on city debt compared with 11 months ago.  “If you look back to 2009, they were a perfectly normal
city,” said Neene Jenkins, an AllianceBernstein analyst in New
York. The company oversees about $32 billion in municipal
securities and bought debt offered in Glendale’s latest sale.
“It’s a bigger issue than just the arena. The risk, coupled
with recessionary factors, has really hit Glendale.”  The city joins municipalities nationwide, from Wenatchee,
 Washington , to Harrison, New Jersey, that had their ratings cut
after economic gains from sports projects fell short amid the
longest recession since the 1930s. Glendale is now weighing
budget reductions of $20 million over the next four years,
including the elimination of 64 mostly vacant jobs by June.  Staffing Cuts  “Every city department from the city court to code
compliance to economic development will see cuts of staffing or
operation and maintenance in the budget,” said Julie Frisoni, a
Glendale spokeswoman. She said that about two-thirds of the
positions identified for cuts aren’t held by anyone.  Glendale is looking to curb spending even though a tax
increase won support at the polls in November. Voters rejected
an initiative to overturn a sales-tax increase passed by the
City Council in June -- a step that officials warned would
devastate the budget. The boost, from 2.2 percent to 2.9 percent
for a total combined rate of 10.2 percent when county and state
levies are included, is expected to generate as much as $25
million a year before expiring in 2017. The city is making cuts
now to wean itself off the extra money by then, Frisoni said.  Glendale, a former farming community of 230,500 west of
Phoenix, is the fifth-most populous Arizona city. In 2003, the
municipality issued $155.2 million in revenue bonds backed by
sales taxes to finance what is now called  Jobing.com Arena . That
lured the Coyotes from Phoenix, where the team had relocated
from Winnipeg, Manitoba, in 1996.  Football Stadium  Construction of a venue for the National Football League’s
Arizona Cardinals also began in 2003 in the city, financed by
the Arizona Sports and Tourism Authority, which is supported by
its own taxes. Glendale paid for some surrounding
infrastructure. The team began playing at what is now known as
 University of Phoenix Stadium  in 2006.  The city also ventured into baseball, issuing debt in 2008
to finance a $200 million spring-training facility called
Camelback Ranch for Major League Baseball’s Los Angeles Dodgers
and Chicago White Sox. Taxes from a planned adjacent development
and aid from the state sports authority were to repay the debt.  The national economy and the city’s development hopes began
to crumble before the first pitch was thrown at the ballpark.  Paying Losses  The owner of the Phoenix Coyotes sought bankruptcy court
protection in 2009. The league purchased the team for $140
million with Glendale agreeing to cover its losses to keep the
franchise playing at its arena -- $50 million over the past two
years. While the Coyotes won the Pacific Division title last
season, home-game attendance was the lowest in the 30-team NHL.  Development around the sports facilities stalled. The
Westgate City Center, a mixed-use retail project adjacent to the
hockey arena, wasn’t fully built when the lender repossessed the
property last year. A sports-themed project of housing, retail,
lodging and office space around the spring training facility
never materialized.  “The economy crashed so fast and so hard,” said Glendale
City Councilwoman Yvonne Knaack, who has served since 2007.
“There was supposed to be this huge development to support
Camelback Ranch,” she said. Now, around the ballpark, “it’s
all field, all empty.”  Building Permits  The value of building permits in Glendale plummeted to $118
million in fiscal 2011 from $582 million in 2007 as a Freddie
Mac Arizona home price index  fell  51 percent from May 2006 to
August 2011, wiping out six years of gains. Sales-tax revenue
fell to $53.8 million in 2010 from $65.6 million in 2008. Debt
payments have depleted the reserve fund, which had $70 million
in 2007, said Diane Goke, the city’s chief financial officer.  In May, confronting a $32 million deficit, Glendale fired
49 workers -- the latest in cuts that have eliminated about 300
jobs and trimmed operating costs by 25 percent, Goke said. It
also moved forward on an arena lease with potential Coyotes
buyer Greg Jamison, the former San Jose Sharks chief executive
officer who has a tentative agreement with the league.  Under a lease approved Nov. 27, Glendale will pay the team
an average of $15 million annually to manage the rink. This
year’s amount will be less because of a lockout that has
canceled play so far this season. Though Horatio Skeete, the
acting city manager, estimated it would cost $6 million to run
the arena without the Coyotes playing there, the city projects
it will be financially better off in the long term by providing
home ice to the team.  Rating Cuts  The municipality’s general-obligation bond rating was cut
two steps by S&P on Dec. 12 to A-, four levels above non-
investment grade. That followed a Moody’s downgrade on Nov. 30
to A2, its sixth-highest rank. Both companies cited declines in
Glendale’s reserve fund from the payment for the Coyotes and the
effects of the 18-month recession that ended in June 2009.  After the rating cuts, Glendale sold about $240 million of
excise-tax revenue bonds to refund previously issued debt, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Debt maturing in nine years was
priced to yield 2.53 percent, or 1.15 percentage points more
than  benchmark AAA munis  with similar maturities, the data show.  That extra yield penalty was 0.08 percentage point higher
than what investors demanded on similar-maturing Glendale
excise-tax debt sold in January, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Glendale is “a good example -- and hopefully a warning
sign to others -- that when you deviate from your core purpose,
you increase your risk,” said Alan Schankel, managing director
of fixed-income research at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia.  Refinancing Savings  Still, the refinancing will save the city $9.5 million in
the current fiscal year and $43 million through 2038, Goke said.
The city was also able to issue all its securities, unlike in
the January sale, when much of the deal went unsold.  “The fact that we sold all of our bonds and we actually
got a pretty good rate for them shows that investors are willing
to invest in the city of Glendale and believe in the long-term
success of the city,” she said.  Those savings, coupled with new development on the horizon
bode well for the city, Goke said. Part of the vacant land
around the baseball facility was recently purchased, while a
plan has been announced to build a 500-bed hospital near the
hockey rink. A  Tanger Factory Outlet Centers Inc. (SKT)  mall opened
near the arena in mid-November.  Knaack, the councilwoman, said she regrets approving the
baseball stadium, though she still sees the chance for economic
gain from the hockey arena.  “We’re stuck with it,” Knaack said. “But on the other
hand, look at the potential we have. To me, we have a lot more
potential because of it.”  Following is a pending sale:  FAIRFAX COUNTY, VIRGINIA plans to sell about $300 million
in general-obligation bonds as soon as Jan. 9, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Moody’s Investors Service rates the debt
Aaa, its highest grade. (Added Dec. 28)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  