-- Arsenal Sets Two-Week Walcott Contract Deadline: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-12-31T11:31:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/arsenal-sets-two-week-walcott-contract-deadline-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Walcott Deadline  Arsenal has given forward Theo Walcott a two-week deadline
to agree on a new contract with the 13-time English champion,
the  Daily Mail  reported.  The Gunners are “optimistic” the 23-year-old will extend
his stay at the Emirates Stadium, and the England national team
player’s preference is to remain in north London, according to
the newspaper.  Walcott’s contract expires at the end of the season,
meaning Arsenal risks losing him without getting a transfer fee.
The club offered Walcott 75,000 pounds ($121,000) a week but he
wants closer to 100,000 pounds, as well as assurances he’ll be
played as a central striker, the Mail said. Walcott scored three
times and assisted in two goals when he started in that position
in the Gunners’ 7-3 win over Newcastle two days ago.  Villa Spending  Aston Villa manager Paul Lambert will get 10 million pounds
to spend in the January transfer window in an effort to stave
off relegation,  the Daily Telegraph  reported.  The money was made available to Villa’s manager following a
transfer conference yesterday with the team’s American owner
Randy Lerner, the newspaper said. Villa is just a point outside
the relegation zone following a 3-0 home loss to Wigan two days
ago. That defeat followed an 8-0 defeat at Chelsea and a 4-0
reversal against Tottenham at Villa Park.  The Midlands-based team wants to sign at least three new
players and will also try to offload some of its biggest earners
such as goalkeeper Shay Given, winger Charles N’Zogbia and even
record signing Darren Bent, the Telegraph said.  Zaha Battle  Manchester United will this week start the bidding for
Crystal Palace’s 20-year-old forward Wilfried Zaha by making an
8 million-pound offer, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  The Ivory Coast-born player last week said he’s ready to
move up to the Premier League and sees his future with United or
Arsenal, the newspaper said.  Palace wants to keep the winger until the end of the season
but Zaha’s declaration that he wants to leave the second-tier
team may force the club’s hand, the Mirror said.  Alonso May Return  Former Liverpool midfielder Xabi Alonso may be poised to
make a return to the Premier League, the  Daily Mail  reported.  The Spaniard, 31, quit the Reds in 2009 to join Real
Madrid, where he won the league title last season. Talks over
extending his contract there are on hold, according to the Mail.  “I’ve no idea what will happen,” the Mail quoted Alonso
telling reporters in Spain. “There is always a chance I could
go back to the Premier League as I always enjoyed good times
there.”  Cole to QPR?  Joe Cole is close to joining Queens Park Rangers on loan
after the bottom-of-the-table team opened talks with Liverpool,
the  Mail  reported.  Cole, 31, would join on loan with a view to a permanent
move if QPR manages to avoid relegation, the newspaper said. The
midfielder was left out of Liverpool squad yesterday as the Reds
beat QPR 3-0 at Loftus Road.  There may even be a chance for Cole to move to QPR
permanently if he’s able to agree on a severance package with
Liverpool over the remaining 18 months of his 90,000 pounds per
week contract, the Mail said. Cole was given his professional
debut in 1998 by QPR coach Harry Redknapp when the pair were
together at West Ham.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  