-- Most Asian Stocks Drop as U.S. Budget Talks Stall; Fairfax Gains
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-12-31T10:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/asian-stocks-drop-paring-2012-gains-as-u-s-budget-talks-stall.html
Most Asian  stocks  declined, paring
this year’s advance, with a deadline looming for the  U.S.
Congress  to reach a budget agreement to avert automatic tax
increases and spending cuts.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto  Group, the world’s largest
mining companies, led declines among companies with earnings
closely tied to economic growth. Fairfax Media Ltd. surged 7.4
percent, paring its slump in 2012, amid speculation billionaire
 Gina Rinehart  and investor John Singleton may seek control of
Australia’s second-largest newspaper publisher.  China Resources
Power Holdings Co. (836) , a Hong Kong-listed mainland utility, rose
1.4 percent after a survey showed Chinese manufacturing speeding
up.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  was little
changed at 466.50 as of 6:28 p.m. in Hong Kong. About five
shares fell for every four that rose. Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock
Average posted the biggest annual advance since 2005, surging 23
percent, and the benchmark MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 14
percent in 2012 as central banks from the U.S., Europe, Japan
and China took action to spur economic growth.  “Some investors are looking through this in the hope that
politicians can find a middle ground that will allow the
increasing momentum in the economy not to be impeded,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd.
in Melbourne, in a phone interview today. “We’re in a period of
frenetic negotiations. It’s disappointing that politics has got
in the way to such an extent, with investors becoming
increasingly nervous that this will drag on into the new year.”  China Factories  Asian shares pared declines after China’s manufacturing
expanded at a faster pace in December, according to the final
reading of a Purchasing Managers’ Index from HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics today. The 51.5 figure, the highest since
May 2011, compares with the 50.9 preliminary reading published
Dec. 14 and 50.5 in November. A reading above 50 indicates
expansion.  China Resources Power, the fourth biggest listed-power
generation company in China, gained 1.4 percent to HK$19.78.
 Citic Pacific Ltd. (267) , which makes steel, mines iron ore and sells
cars, gained 2.5 percent to HK$11.56. China Longyuan Power Group
Corp., a wind farm producer, gained 2.7 percent to HK$5.36.  “This improvement was mainly driven by an expansion of
production, on the back of a strong increase in new business
inflows,” said Xiaoping Ma, a China economist at HSBC Holdings
Plc in a note today. “We expect Beijing to keep its pro-growth
fiscal and monetary policy stance in place, and pursues an
appropriate pace of growth in total social financing as well as
tax cuts. Growth in infrastructure investment is expected to
maintain strong momentum as there are still plenty key
construction projects in the pipeline.”  Markets Close  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  lost 0.5 percent for an
annual gain of 15 percent.  New Zealand ’s Exchange 50 Gross Index
retreated 0.4 percent, taking its 2012 gain to 24 percent. Hong
Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI) , up 23 percent this year, slid less than
0.1 percent and China’s Shanghai Composite gained 1.6 percent.  Markets in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Indonesia, Thailand,
Philippines and Vietnam are closed today for a holiday. Trading
in Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong and Singapore ends early
today ahead of the New Year holiday.  Thailand’s SET Index surged 36 percent this year, the
biggest advance by any Asian benchmark gauge after Pakistan’s
Karachi 100 Index.  Cliff Talks  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures expiring in March rose
0.3 percent, paring a decline from after U.S. markets closed
Dec. 28. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  rejected the latest
Republican offer to resolve the crisis as Minority Leader  Mitch
McConnell  reached out to Vice President  Joe Biden  to try to
break the impasse.  Congress is working to avert more than $600 billion in tax
rises and spending cuts, known as the fiscal cliff, and a
failure risks a recession, the  Congressional Budget Office  has
warned. The Senate will resume its session today.  PT Bumi Resources (BUMI)  slumped 73 percent in 2012 in Jakarta,
the biggest slide among companies on Asia’s benchmark stocks
index. Bumi is at the center of a dispute between its founders
 Nathaniel Rothschild  and Indonesia’s Bakrie Group amid ongoing
investigations in London and Indonesia into possible financial
anomalies.  Sharp Corp. tumbled 55 percent this year as the TV maker
warned last month about its ability to survive amid competition
from overseas rivals. Japan’s largest liquid-crystal-display
maker is selling as much as 9.9 billion yen ($121 million)
selling shares to Qualcomm Inc. in a bid to restore its balance
sheet.  Indian Drinkmaker  India’s  United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP)  posted the largest gains among
Asian stocks this year, soaring 286 percent, as Diageo Plc said
it will buy a controlling stake in the country’s largest
distiller for $2.04 billion.  BHP Billiton  lost 0.8 percent to A$37.10. Rio Tinto slid
0.8 percent to A$66.01. Newcrest Mining Ltd. retreated 1.5
percent to A$22.18.  Fairfax soared 7.4 percent to 51 Australian cents.
Rinehart, who failed in a bid for a board seat this year, and
Singleton own 15.14 percent of Fairfax and agreed to consult on
key issues related to boosting “shareholder value,” according
to a filing today.  Rinehart and Singleton may seek control of the publishing
company to pursue asset sales after teaming up to boost their
say at the newspaper publisher, said Mark McDonnell, Sydney-
based analyst at BBY Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  