-- Berkshire’s CTB Buys Martin to Expand Grain-Handling Unit
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-12-31T20:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/berkshire-s-ctb-buys-martin-industries-to-expand-grain-business.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s
agricultural-products unit CTB Inc. purchased closely held
Martin Industries Corp. to expand its offerings to the grain
industry. Terms weren’t disclosed.  Martin and its subsidiaries including LeMar Industries make
bucket elevators, grain conveyors and other devices for loading
and unloading the crop from storage, according to a statement
today by Milford, Indiana-based CTB. LeMar, based in  Des Moines ,
 Iowa , employs almost 200 people.  CTB Chief Executive Officer Victor Mancinelli has won
praise from Berkshire’s billionaire Chairman  Warren Buffett  for
expanding the unit through  takeovers . CTB makes equipment for
handling grain, poultry, pigs and eggs and this year acquired a
Dutch company that makes neck breakers and chicken eviscerators.
LeMar’s senior managers will report to the Brock Grain Systems
division after the acquisition.  The deal means CTB can “offer its customers and dealers a
complete grain preservation package,” Mancinelli said in the
statement. “The acquisition also provides CTB with additional
engineering expertise and talented people as well as with
manufacturing options in the heart of the U.S. grain belt.”  Martin’s other subsidiaries include Riley Equipment, a
maker of bulk material handling products; Hall Industries, a
custom designer and metal fabricator; Midwest Bearing & Supply,
a bearing and power transmission supply house; and Grain Reclaim
Machine Co., a grain-pickup service.  Buffett said in 2010 that CTB would expand for decades and
was on a farming “superhighway.” The billionaire’s son Howard,
a farmer and Berkshire director since 1993, endorsed the deal to
buy the company in 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  