-- Billionaire Bulgheronis Back YPF in $1.5 Billion Shale Deal
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-12-31T21:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/billionaire-bulgheronis-agree-to-1-5-billion-in-ypf-shale-deal.html
Bridas International SA, an oil
holding controlled by Argentina’s billionaire Bulgheroni
brothers, agreed to invest $1.5 billion with  YPF SA (YPF)  to develop
shale oil reserves in Patagonia.  Bridas and  state-controlled  YPF will have 60 days to
negotiate terms of the accord, which will give Bridas 50 percent
stakes in the Bajada Anelo and Bandurria areas in southwestern
Argentina, the Buenos Aires-based company said late Dec. 28 in a
regulatory filing. The partnership plans to drill 130 wells, YPF
said in a separate statement.  The agreement with Bridas is the second  venture  announced
by YPF since the government seized control of Argentina’s
largest oil producer from Repsol SA in April. An agreement to
develop shale with  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-largest U.S. oil
company, was announced earlier this month and is also pending
settlement of terms.  YPF is seeking to develop the Vaca Muerta shale formation
in  Argentina ’s Neuquen province, which is estimated to hold at
least 23 billion barrels of oil equivalent, according to a
report released by independent auditor Ryder Scott in February.
YPF owns about 13 billion barrels, the report said.  Bridas will also loan $500 million to YPF to help it
develop the reserves, according to the Dec. 28 accord.  Brothers Carlos and Alejandro Bulgheroni own a 50 percent
stake in Bridas Corp. through their holding Bridas Energy
Holding Ltd. The remaining 50 percent in Bridas Corp. is owned
by China National Offshore Oil Corp., or Cnooc. Carlos
Bulgheroni declined to say at a press conference Dec. 28 whether
Bridas International, which signed the agreement with YPF, was a
subsidiary of Bridas Corp. or Bridas Energy.  Strategic Partners  Bridas Corp. owns a 40 percent stake in and operates Pan
American Energy LLC, Argentina’s second-largest oil producer.  BP
Plc (BP/)  owns the remaining shares.  YPF Chief Executive Officer Miguel Galuccio in August said
that to boost output, YPF needs to invest $37.2 billion during
the next five years, $2.5 billion of which is to come from
strategic partners and $5 billion from bond sales and bank
loans. The remainder should come from its own  cash flow , he
said.  YPF delayed a foreign bond sale after the Argentine
government was told Oct. 26 by a U.S. court to repay owners of
defaulted sovereign debt who declined to join creditors in
restructuring borrowings.  Delayed Sales  YPF’s bond sale, which is seeking as much as $500 million,
has probably been postponed until March, Galuccio said earlier
this month. The producer is considering a second international
bond sale next year, he said. Galuccio made the Dec. 28
announcement along with the Bulgheroni brothers in  Buenos Aires .  Chief Financial Officer Daniel Gonzalez on Nov. 7 said YPF
signed a contract with three banks to organize an international
bond sale and would proceed when market conditions allowed. This
would be YPF’s first international bond sale since its
nationalization.  The agreement with Bridas was announced after markets
closed on Dec. 28. YPF’s American depositary receipts rose 0.2
percent to $14.55 at the close in  New York  today. The ADRs, each
worth one ordinary share, have dropped 58 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  