-- Boise State Spurns Big East for Mountain West in All Sports
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-01-01T05:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/boise-state-will-spurn-big-east-move-and-stay-in-mountain-west.html
Boise State University  dropped year-
old plans to join the Big East Conference and will remain in the
Mountain West Conference for all sports.  The Boise, Idaho-based school’s decision, which was
announced yesterday in a  joint statement  on the Mountain West
website, comes as the Big East tries to survive several schools’
departures due to lost revenue opportunities associated with a
new college football playoff format.  “Without question, conference affiliation has been an
odyssey for Boise State, with all the unexpected turns and
changes that term suggests,” Boise State University President
Robert Kustra said. “The benefits of geographic footprint,
revenue, and national exposure have to be balanced against the
changing circumstances of conference realignment.”  Boise State said a year ago it would join the  Big East  in
football and the Big West in all other sports.  Even though it never played a game as a league member, it
will have to pay a $5 million exit fee to the Big East, though
there are contract provisions that may lower the amount and the
Mountain West is expected to help with the payment, ESPN said,
citing unidentified people.  The Providence, Rhode Island-based Big East will lose its
status as an automatic qualifier for college football’s
lucrative Bowl Championship Series when a new playoff system
begins in 2014. The Mountain West also lacks an automatic
qualifier for the playoff.  Still Scheduled  Central Florida, Houston, Memphis, San Diego State and
Southern Methodist are scheduled to join the Big East for
football in July 2013; Tulane and East Carolina in July 2014;
and Navy in July 2015. Those moves would create a 12-team league
that also includes Connecticut, Cincinnati, South Florida and
Temple.  Boise State is the most recent school to withdraw from the
Big East in the past two years. Texas Christian announced plan
to join before moving to the Big 12 instead; Rutgers is moving
to the Big Ten; and Louisville is joining the Atlantic Coast
Conference.  The Big East’s seven non-football schools -- DePaul,
Georgetown, Marquette, Providence,  Seton Hall ,  St. John’s  and
Villanova -- voted unanimously this month to leave the
conference to pursue a new basketball framework.  With the addition of San Jose State and Utah State on July
1, 2013, the Mountain West will have 10 all-sport schools and
Hawaii as a football-only school. The other members will be  Air
Force , Colorado State, Fresno State,  Nevada ,  New Mexico , Nevada-
Las Vegas and  Wyoming .  “Maintaining the Broncos program as part of the already
solid foundation we have established creates a posture of great
stability for the Mountain West going forward,” said
Commissioner Craig Thompson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  