-- Brent-Dubai Rises to Two-Week High; Shell Buys Oman: Asia Crude
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-12-31T09:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/brent-dubai-rises-to-two-week-high-shell-buys-oman-asia-crude.html
Brent crude’s premium to Middle East
benchmark Dubai grade rose to the highest level in more than two
weeks.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  bought a cargo of Oman crude
through the Platts pricing window.  The February Brent-Dubai exchange for swaps, which measures
the European oil’s premium to Mideast crude, gained for a fourth
day, advancing 4 cents to $5.12 a barrel, the highest since Dec.
14, according to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd., a London-
based broker. The front-month spread has widened $1.47 this
year. The March EFS lost 5 cents to $4.37.  Shell bought a 475,000 barrel Oman shipment for February
after purchasing at least 19 Dubai partial cargoes in the Platts
window in December from Phibro LLC, a unit of  Occidental
Petroleum Corp. (OXY) , according to a Bloomberg News survey of people
who monitor the trades.  Dubai partial deals must be consolidated into one shipment
when the same buyer and seller agree to trade 19 or more of the
25,000 barrel lots during a month. The seller can choose to
supply Dubai, Upper Zakum or Oman varieties to the buyer.  Shell bought its 19th Dubai partial cargo from Phibro today
at $107.45 a barrel, the survey showed. The European oil major
also bought three from Mercuria Energy Trading SA at $107.75 a
barrel apiece.  OAO Surgutneftegas sold six 100,000 metric-ton cargoes of
East Siberia-Pacific Ocean, or ESPO, crude for February loading
at premiums of $5.10 to $5.60 a barrel to benchmark Dubai oil,
said two people who participate in the market, asking not to be
identified because they aren’t authorized to speak to the media.  China SPR  China  may start building the third phase of its strategic
petroleum reserve next year, which will have a total capacity of
28.2 million cubic meters, China Oil, Gas & Petrochemicals said
in an e-mailed report today citing unnamed officials with the
National Energy Administration. The three SPR phases may still
fail to reach the goal of providing enough oil to cover the
country’s demand for 90 days, according to the newsletter,
published by the Xinhua News agency.  Benchmark Asia-Pacific  refining margins , or the profit from
processing Dubai crude into fuels such as diesel and gasoline
priced in the regional oil-trading hub of Singapore, averaged
$3.55 a barrel during the last five days, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The 30-day average was $2.74.  Mideast Crude  Dubai crude’s backwardation, when near-term shipments cost
 more  than future deliveries, fell 17 cents a barrel. Spot prices
were $1.97 higher than cargoes for two months later, according
to PVM data.  Abu Dhabi’s Murban and Upper Zakum were unchanged at
discounts of 50 cents and 5 cents a barrel, respectively, to
their official selling prices, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Qatar Land remained at 60 cents below its OSP while
Qatar Marine was at a 13 cent premium.  The official selling price for Oman oil in February will be
$106.16 a barrel, based on the average of daily futures
settlement prices this month on the Dubai Mercantile Exchange.
That sets the medium-sulfur crude at 0.9 percent less than
January’s price of $107.14.  Today’s settlement at 12:30 p.m. Dubai time was $106.47 a
barrel, the exchange said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in  Singapore  at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  