-- Canadian Dollar Gains on Optimism U.S. May Reach Deal
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-12-31T22:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/canadian-dollar-gains-on-hope-u-s-avoids-recession.html
The Canadian dollar gained for the
first time in four days versus its U.S. counterpart as U.S.
President  Barack Obama  said congressional leaders were “close”
to a deficit-reduction deal to avoid tipping the nation’s
largest trading partner into recession.  Canada’s currency rose against the majority of its 16 most-
traded peers as Obama said a deal to avert a recession from
legislated austerity measures was “within sight.” The currency
had the biggest intraday jump in a month after  Bloomberg News 
reported a tentative accord that would allow taxes to go up on
families earning more than $450,000 a year and extend
 unemployment benefits  for one year.  “It looks increasingly like there’s a deal that’s on the
table,” David Doyle, a strategist at Macquarie Capital Markets,
said by phone from Toronto. “Doubtful it gets voted on by both
houses before the day is out, but I think it’ll be constructive
that the deal has been agreed to, and I think you’ve seen that
across the board, with most risk assets responding positively.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.5 percent to
99.21 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5:11 p.m. in Toronto, its largest
intraday gain since Nov. 23. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0080.  The currency advanced 2.9 percent against the U.S. dollar
this year. It will strengthen to 97 cents per U.S. dollar by the
second quarter of 2013, according to the median estimate of 41
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Crude Oil  Crude oil , Canada’s largest export, climbed 1 percent to
$91.74 a barrel in New York, and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rose 1.7 percent.  Canada’s benchmark  10-year bonds  fell for the first time in
three days, pushing the yield up three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.8 percent. The 2.75 percent security
maturing in June 2022 declined 26 cents to C$108.22.  The  U.S. economy  faces a recession in the first half of
2013 if lawmakers are unable to avoid the tax and spending
changes, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  “I don’t think the market is sitting there going, we
absolutely think they’re going to get this sorted out by
midnight tonight, but I think the belief is if it’s not done by
midnight tonight it will be done very soon after, very early in
January,” said  Shane Enright ,  executive director  at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC World Markets unit, by phone
from Toronto.  The Canadian dollar rose earlier after data showed China’s
manufacturers unexpectedly expanded at the fastest pace in 19
months in December, boosting optimism that a recovery in the
world’s second-biggest economy is gaining traction.  The final reading of a  Purchasing Managers ’ Index was 51.5
in December, according to a statement from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics today. That compares with the 50.9 preliminary
reading on Dec. 14 and a final 50.5 in November. A level above
50 indicates expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at  