-- Chavez Resting After New Setback in Battle Against Cancer
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2013-01-01T20:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/chavez-suffers-new-complications-after-operation-maduro-says.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ’s
family said the ailing leader spent a day resting following a
new setback in his battle against cancer, dismissing speculation
on social media that he’d passed away in a Cuban hospital.  Technology Minister Jorge Arreaza, Chavez’s son-in-law,
wrote on his Twitter account that Chavez spent a “calm and
stable” day yesterday accompanied by his children. Arreaza is
in Cuba along with other members of Chavez’s family as the 58-
year-old leader struggles to recover from a fourth surgery in 18
months to treat an unspecified form of cancer. Arreaza told
supporters not to believe “the rumors” of Chavez’s death.  Chavez suffered new complications in his battle against
cancer, forcing his vice president and chosen successor to stay
on in Cuba as the president struggles to recover from a
respiratory infection.  “We were informed of new complications that occurred as a
result of the respiratory infection we already knew about,”
Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  said Dec. 30. “The president’s
state of health continues to be delicate, presenting
complications that are being attended to in a process not
without risks.”  Maduro made the announcement in a national address from
Havana. Chavez, who won a third presidential term on Oct. 7,
hasn’t appeared in public since flying to Cuba 22 days ago to
undergo surgery. He is due to start his third six-year term on
Jan. 10, though the government has said that the date and place
for the swearing-in ceremony are flexible.  ‘Death Watch’  “The important and telling thing is that Maduro didn’t go
back to Venezuela,” said Russ Dallen, head bond trader at
Caracas Capital Markets, in an Dec. 31 interview from Miami.
“Why would he not come back unless it’s death watch?”  Maduro said that he had met with Chavez’s medical team
several times since flying to Cuba on Dec. 29, and that Chavez
told him personally about the new complications. Maduro didn’t
provide details on the developments.  “We’ve decided to stay in  Havana  for the coming hours to
accompany the comandante and the family, staying on top of the
evolution of his current situation,” Maduro said.  Chavez, who named his socialist revolution after the 19th-
century South American liberator  Simon Bolivar , was last seen in
public boarding a Cuba-bound plane Dec. 10. The Venezuelan
government today released a statement it said was by Chavez in
which he congratulated Cuba on the 54th anniversary of its
revolution.  ‘Fraternal Solidarity’  “On this very special Jan. 1, when the circumstances of
the fight for life have united the Cuban and Bolivarian
revolutions more than ever, we come together in prayer and in
hope to celebrate our fraternal solidarity,” said the
statement, which was e-mailed to media.  Chavez said on Dec. 8 that voters should elect Maduro to
protect his legacy if his illness prevents him from remaining in
office.  Caracas Mayor  Jorge Rodriguez , a top Chavez ally, canceled
a New Year’s Eve concert in downtown Caracas’s Plaza Bolivar,
asking that people gather to pray for Chavez’s health instead,
the mayor’s office said in a Twitter message.  Chavez suffered “complications” during his fourth
operation for cancer on Dec. 11 due to bleeding, Maduro said
Dec. 13. Surgeons took corrective measures in time to control
the bleeding, he said.  ‘Stable’ Condition  A week later, Information Minister Ernesto Villegas said
that Chavez was in “stable” condition after his medical team
controlled a respiratory infection.  By Dec. 24, Maduro told state television that Chavez had
recovered enough to talk with him for about 20 minutes,
including 15 minutes the former paratrooper devoted to giving
economic instructions.  Venezuela ’s leader was in good spirits,
walking and doing some exercises, Maduro said.  Should Chavez die, the manner in which power is passed to a
new leadership may depend on whether Diosdado Cabello is re-
elected as National Assembly president in a vote scheduled for
Jan. 5, said Dallen.  Under the constitution, if Chavez is unable to start his
new term on Jan. 10 and doesn’t step down, the National Assembly
president must determine if the absence is temporary or
permanent. If his absence is deemed permanent, the head of
parliament must call for an election within 30 days, though
Cabello wields sufficient power to delay the vote and remain in
power, Dallen said.  Chosen Successor  While Chavez earmarked Maduro as his successor, Cabello, a
former lieutenant who fought alongside Chavez in a 1992
attempted coup, is by no means out of the picture, Dallen said.  Maduro and Cabello “are both moving their players on the
grand chessboard,” Dallen said. “It’s in Cabello’s interests
to play the long game. It’s in Maduro’s interests for things to
happen more rapidly because the government is popular right now
and he’s the chosen successor.”  Cabello said Dec. 26 that Chavez’s electoral victory
outweighs swearing-in protocol and that the constitution doesn’t
dictate the time and place of the ceremony.  “What’s true is that everything points to 2013 being a
hard year of big changes,” opposition leader Henrique Capriles Radonski, who lost to Chavez by more than 10 percentage points
on Oct. 7, wrote on his blog yesterday in an end-of-year message
titled “2013: The future is ours.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  