-- China Manufacturing Pickup Shows Rebound Gains Traction: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-31T07:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/china-s-manufacturing-expands-at-fastest-pace-since-may-2011.html
China ’s manufacturing unexpectedly
expanded at the fastest pace in 19 months in December, boosting
optimism that a recovery in the world’s second-biggest economy
is gaining traction.  The final reading of a  Purchasing Managers ’ Index was 51.5
in December, according to a statement from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics today. That compares with the 50.9 preliminary
reading on Dec. 14 and a final 50.5 in November. A level above
50 indicates expansion.  China’s  economy  may have rebounded after a seven-quarter
slowdown as the government increased spending on infrastructure
and accelerated investment-project approvals. The pickup may
smooth the ruling Communist Party’s once-a-decade transition to
a new generation of leaders headed by  Xi Jinping , who took
office as general secretary in November.  “Momentum is likely to be sustained in the coming months
when infrastructure construction runs into full speed and
property market conditions stabilize,”  Qu Hongbin , chief China
economist at HSBC in Hong Kong, said in the statement.
Manufacturing output and purchasing accelerated this month, even
as new export orders showed a “slight fall” on weak demand in
 Europe ,  Japan  and the U.S., HSBC said.  The median forecast of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News was for a final reading of 50.9.  A separate, government-backed purchasing managers’ index
probably rose to 51 in December from 50.6 the previous month,
according to the median  estimate  in a  Bloomberg News  survey of
25 economists ahead of the report due tomorrow. That would be
the highest reading in eight months.  Stocks Rise  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index of stocks advanced
1.6 percent to finish 2012 up 3.2 percent, the first annual gain
in three years. The gauge has risen 16 percent since this year’s
closing low on Dec. 3 as a pledge by the nation’s new leaders to
promote the development of towns and cities boosted optimism
corporate earnings will improve.  Chinese industrial companies’ profits rose for a third
month in November, statistics bureau data showed on Dec. 27.  Japan’s  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , the world’s second-largest maker of
construction equipment, sees a “best-case scenario” for China
demand to increase 20 percent in the fiscal year starting April
1, Chief Executive Officer Kunio Noji said on Dec. 18.  Economic growth probably accelerated to 7.8 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, up from a three-year low of
7.4 percent in the previous period, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 34 economists this month.
The government will release its report Jan. 18.  Wider Deficit  The nation will target a 50 percent increase in the  budget
deficit  next year, a person familiar with the matter told
Bloomberg News last week, a sign that extra spending may aid
domestic demand and sustain growth as exports struggle.  Elsewhere in  Asia ,  South Korea ’s inflation eased to the
slowest pace in four months in December, with consumer prices
rising 1.4 percent from a year earlier, data showed today.
Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong may announce the
country’s annual growth rate in his new-year message today while
a survey showed Sri Lanka inflation probably moderated in
December from a three-month high.  Portugal  will release industrial production and retail
sales data for November, while the Dutch statistics agency may
confirm growth contracted in the third quarter. In the U.S., the
Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas  will release its index of Texas
manufacturing activity for December.  Controlling Risks  The pace of China’s rebound may be tempered by a slowdown
in credit growth. In its quarterly monetary policy report
released Dec. 28, the People’s Bank of China highlighted the
need to control risks as one of its objectives, a possible sign
of growing concern that a surge in non-bank lending over the
past two years will lead to defaults.  Today’s report “further suggests the recovery is on track
and that growth may remain strong” in the first quarter, Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Hong
Kong , said in a note. “Nonetheless, we are concerned about the
sustainability of the recovery” in the second half given the
central bank’s comments, which suggest regulators may tighten
controls to contain financial risks, Zhang said.  The findings of a private survey modeled on the U.S.
Federal Reserve’s Beige Book also question the recovery’s
staying power. Improvements in retailing, real estate and mining
in the fourth quarter were countered by rising inventories and
lower corporate borrowing, according to the China Beige Book
report issued last week.  The nation’s budget deficit may widen to 1.2 trillion  yuan 
($193 billion) in 2013, including the sale of 350 billion yuan
of bonds to fund local governments, Bloomberg reported on Dec.
27, citing a person who asked not to be identified because the
deliberations are not public. A bigger gap may help pay for tax
cuts and measures to boost urbanization and consumer demand.  --Zheng Lifei, Zhou Xin. With assistance from Nerys Avery in
Beijing and Shamim Adam, Rina Chandran and Ailing Tan in
 Singapore . Editors: Scott Lanman, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net ;
Zhou Xin in Beijing at   xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  