-- China Insurers Rise on Fund Management Entry: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-31T08:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/china-insurers-rise-on-fund-management-entry-shanghai-mover.html
Chinese insurers rose in Shanghai
trading after the nation’s securities watchdog said they would
be allowed to set up mutual funds, boosting optimism that the
industry would benefit from increased demand.  China Life Insurance Co. (601628) , the nation’s largest insurance
company, jumped 5.8 percent, the most in more than six months,
to 21.40 yuan at the close of trading.  New China Life Insurance
Co. (601336)  surged 10 percent, while Ping An Insurance (Group) Co.
gained 3.4 percent. The benchmark  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP)  Index added
1.6 percent after manufacturing expanded at a faster pace.  The  China  Securities Regulatory Commission posted draft
rules on its website yesterday allowing insurers’ asset
management units and securities brokerages to set up mutual
funds, a move the regulator said seeks to “attract various
funds into the capital market.” While it could only contribute
marginally to profits, the new policy reinforces prospects that
insurers may benefit more from a possible market rally as the
nation’s  economic growth  stabilizes, said Guodu Securities Co.  “Insurers have taken massive impairment charges this year
after the market fell, therefore their results will improve
noticeably if equities reverse declines as expected,” Deng Ting,
Guodu’s Beijing-based analyst, said by phone. “In a market
rally, any positive news can be played up.”  Citic Securities Co. (600030) , China’s biggest listed brokerage,
climbed 1.5 percent to 13.36 yuan in Shanghai trading.
Everbright Securities Co. rose 3.6 percent.  Economic Recovery  China’s manufacturing unexpectedly expanded at the fastest
pace in 19 months in December, boosting optimism that a recovery
in the world’s second-biggest economy is gaining traction.  The Shanghai Composite fell 5.2 percent in the first nine
months of this year as China’s economic expansion cooled. China
Life’s profit slumped 56 percent to 7.4 billion  yuan  ($1.2
billion) for that period after recording 29 billion yuan in
impairment losses to recognize declines in its stock holdings.
The equity gauge has rallied 15 percent this month.  A fund management operation could only make a “fairly
small” contribution to insurers’ profits since most of the fund
management companies’ net income is less than 1 billion yuan,
Guodu’s Deng said. The CSRC is seeking public feedback on its
new rules, which require insurers and brokerages to have at
least 20 billion yuan in assets under management.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  