-- China IPOs, Serb Bad Debt Rules, Airplane Web: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-12-31T13:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/china-ipos-serb-bad-debt-rules-airplane-web-compliance.html
China  asked initial public offering
advisers to inspect their clients’ financial statements over the
next three months as regulators step up efforts to combat fraud.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission  said  on its
website Dec. 28 that it will randomly examine “self-
inspection” reports from investment banks and accounting firms.
The CSRC will take legal action against issuers and advisers if
misconduct such as earnings manipulation and financial
irregularities is found, according to the statement.  Several recent high-profile fraud cases involving Chinese
companies have prompted mainland and Hong Kong regulators to
toughen rules on IPO advisers. Hong Kong’s securities regulator
this month proposed making banks criminally liable for false
statements in IPO documents.  In 2011, the CSRC issued a warning letter to Ping An
Securities Co., adviser of Hunan Shengjingshanhe Bio-Technology
Co. and suspended the licenses of two Ping An employees after it
rescinded approval for Shengjingshanhe’s IPO plan due to “major
omissions” of financial information.  The number of companies awaiting approval for IPOs in China
swelled to more than 800 in December as regulators delayed
reviewing new applications on concern a flood of shares may
further weigh on the nation’s benchmark stock market.  Compliance Policy  Serb Central Bank Amends Bad Debt Rules to Boost Credit Activity  Serbia ’s central bank has amended rules on bad debt,
allowing lenders to transfer non-performing loans from their
portfolios to third parties and release funds for greater credit
activity.  Non-performing loans stood at 399.5 billion dinars ($4.6
billion) at the end of the third quarter this year, accounting
for 19.9 percent of banks’ credit portfolios, according to
central bank  data . Loan-loss reserves stood at 127.9 percent of
all non-performing loans.  “Considering that the high level of problematic loans is
to the greatest degree a consequence of late loan repayments by
companies, new regulatory solutions allow banks to cede the
claims” in line with international practice and standards, the
Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije said in an e-mailed
statement Dec. 28.  It also called on banks to “invest additional effort” and
“restructure claims against companies that have a chance to
recover despite difficulties.”  The new rules, taking effect on Dec. 31, will also allow
banks to determine the creditworthiness of their retail clients
based on income and loan track-record, allowing them to be more
flexible in determining customers’ credit risk, it said.  FCC Eases U.S. Licensing Rules for Internet Access on Airliners  The U.S. Federal Communications Commission Dec. 28 moved to
ease licensing requirements for in-flight Internet services.  The FCC, which shares regulation of in-flight
communications with the FAA, has since 2001 authorized companies
to offer Internet service on a case-by-case basis, the agency
said in a news release. The new rules set up a way to establish
that systems meet standards for not interfering with aircraft
controls, a step toward getting FAA approval, the FCC said.  The agency in an  order  set rules for satellites to
communicate with mobile devices used by aircraft passengers and
crews. In such systems, an antenna on the airplane communicates
with satellites, and mobile technologies such as Wi-Fi spread
signals within the aircraft’s hull, the FCC said.  The new rules will allow “faster, more efficient”
licensing of the technologies, the agency said.  Brokers Must Seeks Owners of Unclaimed Funds, Wash Post Says  Brokers will be required to search for customers they have
lost track of to send them dividends, interest payments and
other distributions under a new rule adopted this month by the
Securities and Exchange Commission, the Washington Post
reported.  The rule will apply when checks exceeding $25 remain
uncashed. When that occurs, the obligation to search for and
notify the securities holder applies, the SEC said, according to
the newspaper. The notice would have to be mailed no later than
seven months after the check was sent, the paper reported.  China Securities Regulator Proposes Rules for Insurers’ Funds  Chinese insurers rose in Shanghai trading after the
nation’s securities watchdog said they would be allowed to set
up mutual funds, boosting optimism that the industry would
benefit from increased demand.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission posted draft
rules on its website yesterday allowing insurers’ asset
management units and securities brokerages to set up mutual
funds, a move the regulator said seeks to “attract various
funds into the capital market.” While it could only contribute
marginally to profits, the new policy reinforces prospects that
insurers may benefit more from a possible market rally as the
nation’s  economic growth  stabilizes, said Guodu Securities Co.  China’s manufacturing unexpectedly expanded at the fastest
pace in 19 months in December, boosting optimism that a recovery
in the world’s second-biggest economy is gaining traction.  The  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP)  fell 5.2 percent in the first nine
months of this year as China’s economic expansion cooled. China
Life’s profit slumped 56 percent to 7.4 billion  yuan  ($1.2
billion) for that period after recording 29 billion yuan in
impairment losses to recognize declines in its stock holdings.
The equity gauge has rallied 15 percent this month.  A fund management operation could only make a “fairly
small” contribution to insurers’ profits since most of the fund
management companies’ net income is less than 1 billion yuan,
Deng Ting, Guodu’s Beijing-based analyst, said by phone.  The CSRC is seeking public feedback on its new rules, which
require insurers and brokerages to have at least 20 billion yuan
in assets under management.  Compliance Action  SEC Halts Southridge Trading After Statement on Kinross Venture  Trading in  Southridge Enterprises Inc. (SRGE)  was halted by the
U.S. Securities Exchange Commission after the mining company
said last week it was forming a partnership with  Canada ’s
 Kinross Gold Corp. (K)  in  Mexico .  The temporary suspension was initiated because of questions
regarding the accuracy of statements made by Southridge
concerning “certain claims regarding a joint partnership and an
arrangement to obtain funding and to change the listing venue
for Southridge stock,” the SEC said Dec. 28 in a statement.  Kinross, Canada’s third-largest producer of the metal, on
Dec. 26 denied a statement from Southridge that the two were
entering a partnership to develop projects in Mexico.
Southridge, based in  Dallas , rose as much as 88 percent in over-
the-counter trading after it said earlier the same day the
companies were working to finalize an agreement for the Cinco
Minas and Gran Cabrera properties.  “Kinross wishes to make clear that there is no such joint
partnership, joint venture or other similar such arrangement or
agreement in place, and nor do we expect there to be such a
joint partnership, agreement, acquisition, investment or other
equivalent transaction involving Kinross and Southridge in the
foreseeable future,” Toronto-based Kinross said in a separate
statement Dec. 27.  The SEC said the suspension in Southridge trading would be
from 9:30 a.m. New York time Dec. 28 through Jan. 11.  No one immediately responded to an e-mail or voice-mail
messages left at the Texas phone number listed on Southridge’s
latest press release.  Countrywide Loan Probe Ended by House Panel With No Action Taken  A U.S. House panel ended a probe of alleged preferential
lending by Countrywide Financial Corp. to lawmakers and aides
without taking action, saying the “serious matters” submitted
for review fall outside its jurisdiction.  Allegations surrounding mortgage loans to House members and
staffers through Countrywide Chief Executive Officer Angelo
Mozilo’s “Friends of Angelo” initiative or other so-called VIP
programs are either too old or involve people no longer employed
in the House, the Ethics Committee’s Republican chairman and
ranking Democrat said in a statement Dec. 27.  Ethics Committee Chairman Jo Bonner of  Alabama  and
Representative Linda Sanchez of California said the committee
conducted its own review of the role of Countrywide’s VIP unit,
finding that while it offered quicker, more efficient processing
and some discounts, the loans met basic underwriting standards
and didn’t offer the best deals available in the marketplace.  The Senate Ethics Committee completed an investigation in
2009 saying lawmakers including former Banking Committee
Chairman Christopher Dodd and Senator Kent Conrad didn’t violate
rules when they refinanced loans with Countrywide.  Fannie Mae, which bought billions of dollars in mortgages
from Countrywide under an exclusive agreement, has been under
U.S. conservatorship since September 2008. Countrywide was
acquired by  Bank of America  Corp., which has spent more than $40
billion to clean up mortgages inherited in the deal.  Mozilo, 74, agreed to a record $67.5 million regulatory
settlement in 2010 to resolve claims that he reaped about $140
million by selling Countrywide stock while misleading investors
about the quality of the company’s loans.  U.K. Regulator’s Rule-Tightening Hits Trouble on REITS, FT Says  U.K. property companies and investment managers are
preparing to contest a proposal by the Financial Services
Authority that may prevent the marketing of real-estate
investment trusts to retail customers, the Financial Times
reported today.  The watchdog organization said in the summer that financial
advisers will be prevented from marketing “exotic investments”
to unwary clients. Lawyers said the FSA’s definition of
“unregulated collective investment schemes” might include
REITs, which offer tax benefits and have long been marketed to
small investors.  Peter Cosmetatos, finance chief at the  British Property
Federation , says it’s “absurd” to compare REITs to
unauthorized collective investment schemes.  The FSA said the consultation is continuing and the rules’
structure is “not a foregone conclusion.” The agency is
expected to announce rules by the end of March.  Small investors account for about 8 percent of shareholders
in U.K.-listed REITs.  Courts  Porsche Wins New York Court Dismissal of Hedge Funds’ VW Lawsuit  Porsche Automobil Holding SE (PAH3)  won an appeals court ruling
dismissing a lawsuit by hedge funds that accused the German
carmaker of concealing a plan to corner the market in  Volkswagen
AG (VOW)  shares.  There is an “inadequate connection” between New York and
the events at issue in the case, with only e-mails and phone
calls taking place in New York, the Appellate Division of the
state Supreme Court said in a decision Dec. 27.  Porsche asked the appeals court in November to reverse a
lower court’s decision rejecting its motion to dismiss the 2011
suit by 26 hedge funds including David Einhorn’s Greenlight
Capital Inc.  The funds, which had bet that Volkswagen stock would fall,
claimed Stuttgart, Germany-based Porsche misled investors by
denying through much of 2008 that it intended to  acquire 
Volkswagen, which is based in Wolfsburg,  Germany , and by using
manipulative trades to hide its stock positions. The plaintiffs
sought more than $1 billion in damages.  The appeals court said witnesses and documents in the case
are located in Germany, which provides an “adequate alternative
forum.”  Robert Giuffra, an attorney for Porsche at Sullivan &
Cromwell LLP, described the decision in a statement as “an
important victory for Porsche.”  Porsche is also being sued in  Europe  over the issue.  James B. Heaton, an attorney for the plaintiffs, declined
to comment about the decision.  The case is Viking Global Equities LP v. Porsche Automobil
Holdings SE, 650435/2011, New York state Supreme Court, New York
County ( Manhattan ).  Interviews  Hintz Says U.S. Banks ‘Re-Pricing Their Businesses’  Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
talked about the outlook for the U.S. financial industry in
2013.  He spoke with  Tom Keene  and Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  