-- China Seeks to Counter Illegal Financing as Infractions Spread
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-31T09:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/china-seeks-to-counter-illegal-financing-as-infractions-spread.html
Regional Chinese governments
increasingly use “illegal and irregular” methods to fund their
work, the  Finance Ministry  said, drawing attention to the
challenges  China  faces in tackling $1.7 trillion in local debt.  Regional governments have wrongly injected assets into
financing vehicles and borrowed illegally from non-bank
institutions, the ministry said in  a notice  posted on its
website today. Local leaders must head off “fiscal and
financial risks” by correcting that wrongdoing, the ministry
said.  The notice reflects concern among China’s new leaders over
local government debt, which reached $1.7 trillion by the end of
2010, according to China’s National Audit Office. Finance
Minister  Xie Xuren  has pledged to increase local governments’
tax income as part of fiscal reforms aimed at easing the debt
burden.  “A fundamental solution is still absent for the problem,”
 Sun Mingchun , the head of China research at Daiwa Capital
Markets in  Hong Kong , said by phone today. “Local governments
are undertaking a lot of projects and duties but they are not
given financing options -- it’s just unreasonable.”  Sun said governments should be allowed to sell bonds so
they don’t have to rely on “back door” ways of raising money.  Local governments must not count on future revenue from
land sales to finance debt vehicles, according to the notice.
They also shouldn’t raise funds from the public or use schools
as loan collateral, it said.  The ministry issued rules earlier this month barring
government and Communist Party agencies with administrative
powers from selling debt and offering guarantees for others
unless they had the legal authority to do so.  Credit Positive  Moody’s Investors Service said Dec. 12 the reforms outlined
by Xie, the finance minister, would enhance local governments’
transparency and budget flexibility.  The Chinese government has not updated the local government
debt figure ever since it published the $1.7 trillion figure in
June 2011. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said at a briefing in
March that China added only 300 million  yuan  ($48 million) net
local government debt in 2011 and the debt level was within a
“controllable and safe” range.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  