-- Copper Climbs as Chinese Manufacturing Adds to Growth Signals
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-12-31T10:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/copper-climbs-as-chinese-manufacturing-adds-to-growth-signals.html
Copper rose in  London , closing in on
an annual climb, after the strongest gain in 19 months in
Chinese manufacturing added to signs of improving growth in the
world’s largest consumer of the metal.  A  Purchasing Managers ’ Index released today by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed a final reading of 51.5
in December, the highest since May 2011. Chinese industrial
production and retail sales topped estimates in November and
industrial companies’ profits had a third monthly increase,
reports showed this month.  “Manufacturing in  China  is running strongly,” Steve Hardcastle, head of client services for industrial commodities
at Sucden Financial Ltd. in London, said by phone.  Copper for delivery in three months added 0.7 percent to
$7,941 a metric ton by 10:10 a.m. on the London Metal Exchange.
Prices are up 4.5 percent this year and down 3.2 percent for the
fourth quarter. Copper for delivery in March rose 0.7 percent to
$3.614 a pound on the Comex in  New York .  The LME will be closed tomorrow for New Year’s Day and
Comex floor trading will be shut. Net-long  positions , or wagers
on rising prices, held by funds dropped to 14,988 Comex futures
and options contracts as of Dec. 25 from 24,531 a week earlier,
according to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Concern about the so-called fiscal cliff in the U.S. “is
causing some nervousness,” Hardcastle said. Lawmakers in the
nation, the second-largest copper user, will continue talks
today as they near a midnight deadline to avert higher taxes and
cuts in  government spending . A failure to reach an agreement
risks a recession, the  Congressional Budget Office  has said.  Copper stockpiles tracked by the LME swelled for a 16th
session to 320,050 tons, the highest since Feb. 6, daily figures
showed. They fell 14 percent this year, the third drop in a row.
Zinc stocks jumped 49 percent, the sixth annual increase, and
nickel inventories rose 55 percent, the first gain since 2009.  Aluminum, nickel, tin, lead and zinc climbed in London. Tin
is up 22 percent this year, leading gains among the LME’s six
main metals, and nickel is down 7.9 percent, the only decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  