-- Corporate Sales Primed for Another Record in 2013: Canada Credit
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-12-31T15:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/corporate-sales-primed-for-another-record-in-2013-canada-credit.html
Canadian firms are poised to exceed
2012’s record bond issuance next year as they take advantage of
the lowest borrowing costs in two decades amid a slowing
economy.  Companies including Telus Corp., Alimentation Couche-Tard
Inc. and RioCan Real Estate Investment Trust issued C$89.4
billion ($89.3 billion) in the past 12 months as yields on a
broad  index (SPTSX)  of Canadian-dollar corporate debt dropped to 2.89
percent this month, the lowest since at least 1992. Corporate
fixed-income returns exceeded those on the Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index for a second straight year.  “We could see a nice record year in 2013 in corporate
bonds,” said Patrick O’Toole, a Toronto-based  money manager  who
helps oversee C$70 billion at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce’s CIBC Global Asset Management. “We don’t see any
change to what’s happened in the last four or five years of
investors saying ‘stock market volatility is tough to stomach. I
want to be better diversified’ and importantly, ‘I want to be
paid for my investments.’”  Corporations will issue as much as C$96 billion of debt in
2013, according to Royal Bank of  Canada  projections, with
domestic financial institutions selling the majority, or C$52
billion, driven mostly by maturities.  Royal Bank, Canada’s largest lender, forecast C$23 billion
in sales by non-financial corporations, as much as C$10 billion
in securitizations, about C$6 billion in high-yield debt and C$5
billion in issuance from companies outside Canada.  Low Rates  Issuance surged to a record this year in Bloomberg figures
dating back to 1999, as companies looking to lock in low
borrowing costs found investors seeking to improve on government
bond returns. These conditions will likely continue, with the
central bank holding rates steady at 1 percent until the final
quarter of 2013, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of 23 economists.  “I expect a robust new issuance calendar in 2013,” Susan Rimmer, head of corporate and financial debt capital markets at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, said in an interview in
Toronto . “We witnessed record new issues in 2012 and I would
expect in 2013 the same kind of conditions are going to
persist.”  Provincial Bonds  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own the debt of Canadian investment-grade corporations
rather than the federal government fell one basis point to 135
basis points last week, or 1.35 percentage point, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. The spread between corporate
and federal government debt has narrowed 48 basis points this
year. Corporate bonds have returned 6.55 percent percent this
year.  In the provincial  bond market , spreads widened one basis
point to 74 basis points last week from the week before, and
widened four basis points this year. Provincial bonds have
returned 3.31 percent in 2012, while federal  government bonds 
returned 2.34 percent.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year bonds fell, pushing the yield up
4 basis points to 1.1 percent at 10:02 a.m. in Toronto. The 2.75
percent security maturing in June 2022 declined 34 cents to
C$108.17.  Equity volatility has risen on concern U.S. lawmakers will
fail to reach a deficit reduction deal in time to avoid tax
increases and spending cuts set to take effect tomorrow. The
Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, known as the
VIX, reached its highest level since November 2011 last week
relative to the CBOE S&P 500 3-Month  Volatility Index , data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  GDP Growth  Canada’s gross domestic product grew 0.1 percent in October
after stalling in September and shrinking 0.1 percent in August,
 Statistics Canada  said on Dec. 21. The economy will  slow to a
1.8 percent rate of growth in 2013, from 2 percent this year and
2.6 percent in 2011, according to the median estimate of 29
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That would be the slowest annual
pace since the recession of 2009. The U.S. consumes about three
quarters of Canada’s exports.  If the U.S. avoids recession, corporate issuance next year
may surpass RBC’s C$96 billion projection, which was based on
“a very cautious” scenario, said Altaf Nanji, senior credit-
research analyst at  RBC Capital Markets .  “There’s a lot of torque in the system,” Toronto-based
Nanji said in a telephone interview. “If you can alleviate some
of the roadblocks it really could take off.”  Telecommunications operators may turn to debt markets to
finance bids in wireless  spectrum auctions  the government plans
to hold in the first part of next year, Nanji said, predicting
the companies will issue C$2.5 to C$3 billion in 2013.  Pipeline Approvals  Another boost to issuance next year may come if pipeline
projects such as TransCanada Corp.’s Keystone XL project, which
is under U.S. government review, gets approved, according to
Darcy Briggs at Franklin Templeton Investments Corp.’s Bissett
Investment Management.  “Should some pipeline capacity be approved then a number
of pipeline projects that are on hold currently could need
funding, which would mean increased issuance,” said Briggs, a
Calgary-based money manager whose firm oversees C$4.3 billion in
fixed-income assets.  Appetite for lower-rated deals may sharpen on any signs of
improvement in the global economy as risk appetite improves.  “Within the investment grade corporate bond market we
expect to see a gradual movement down into the triple-B
category, from the A and AA category, in part from the search
for yield,”  Robert Follis , a credit analyst at Scotiabank said
in a phone interview from Toronto. He expects issuance to fall
next year as investors opt for stocks.  High Yield  However Paul Tepsich, who manages the C$62.8 million
Advantaged Canadian High-Yield Bond Fund for the Bank of  Nova
Scotia  at High Rock Capital, predicts the growing number of
retirees in Canada will help drive Canadian debt issuance to new
records in the coming years as investors seek yield more
reliable than stock dividends, he said.  The growing appetite for yield will particularly favor
speculative-grade bonds, said Tepsich. Companies sold a record
C$4.4 billion of Canadian-dollar high-yield debt this year, 52
percent more than in 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Canadian  junk bonds  returned 16 percent this year,
including reinvested interest, and investment-grade corporate
bonds gained 6.5 percent. That beat stocks on the TSX, which
made investors 6.1 percent with dividends reinvested.  “The one thing in  capital markets  in  North America  that
won’t change is the baby-boomers are hitting 60,” Tepsich said.
“In a low-interest rate environment, which I think we’re going
to see for more than three years, we’ll continue to see them
kind of grind towards true yield as opposed to equity-based
dividend yield.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  