-- Credit Has Best Rally in Europe Since 2009 With Central Bank Aid
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2012-12-31T12:03:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/credit-has-best-rally-in-europe-since-2009-with-central-bank-aid.html
Corporate credit markets had their
best year since 2009 in  Europe  as confidence was boosted by
unlimited central bank funding allied with pledges to do
whatever it takes to save the common currency.  The cost of insuring against default tumbled, with the
Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings declining 273
basis points this year to 482, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the biggest rally since a 58 percent
tightening three years ago and was led by Turin, Italy-based
Fiat Industrial SpA and German travel operator TUI AG..  The  European Central Bank ’s decision to hold benchmark
borrowing costs close to zero and pump as much as 1 trillion
euros ($1.3 trillion) into the region’s financial system helped
fend off a credit crunch. ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s
announcement in July that the euro wouldn’t be allowed to
crumble allayed concerns the crises in  Greece ,  Spain , Ireland
and  Portugal  would trigger financial meltdown.  “The man of the year for the  bond market  has to be Mario
Draghi,” Chris Iggo, the London-based chief investment officer
for fixed income at AXA Investment Managers Ltd. said in a note
to clients. “He reduced the risk of the single currency
breaking up and put in place a potential mechanism for dealing
with the debt crisis.”  Financial Debt  The cost of insuring financial debt is heading for the
biggest-ever annual decline and earlier this month traded at the
lowest levels since May 2011. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index
linked to senior debt of 25 banks and insurers was little
changed today at 143 basis points after falling from 279 at the
start of the year. The subordinated index was 1 basis point
lower at 237, down from 512 at the beginning of 2012.  London-based Lloyds Banking Group Plc has the best
performing derivative contracts in the Markit Financial index
with the cost of swaps on the lender’s senior debt dropping
about 61 percent.  Commodities trader Glencore International Plc’s five-year
credit-default swaps are the best-performing of the 125
investment-grade companies in Markit’s iTraxx Europe Index,
tightening 272 basis points this year to 198, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The company is due to complete its $33 billion
takeover of Switzerland-based Xstrata Plc by the end of January.  The gauge of investment-grade debt fell about 56 basis
points this year, the first decline in three years.  ‘Potential Stigma’  A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
10 million euros of debt from default for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “Anything in Europe carried the potential stigma of a euro
breakup and re-denomination but clearly the market is much more
relaxed on this tail risk after the policy reactions and
promises,” said Arif Husain, the London-based director of
European fixed-income at AllianceBernstein Ltd., which oversees
$407 billion.  Reassured by the central bank backstop, corporate
treasurers seized on record-low borrowing costs by issuing
almost 294 billion euros of debt this year, the most since 2009
when a record 383.5 billion euros of non-financial securities in
euros and pounds were issued, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bond yields plunged to a record 1.91 percent on average
from 4.4 percent at the start of the year, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Euro Corporate Index shows.  Volkswagen Bonds  Volkswagen AG, Europe’s biggest carmaker, and utility
Electricite de France SA led issuance, with VW pricing eight
benchmark-sized euro-denominated bonds in the second half of the
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While company debt investors earned 13 percent on their
holdings this year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Euro Corporate Index, pickings are forecast to be slimmer next
year as sales slow.  Issuance may fall by as much as 37 percent in 2013,
according to Credit Agricole SA, with returns on investment-
grade debt predicted to slump by a third at Societe Generale SA
and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  “We believe around 4 percent returns will be possible,”
SocGen credit strategists led by  Suki Mann  told clients in a
note. “To beat that, investors will have to look closely at the
higher beta names and sectors, particularly the subordinated
financials sectors.”  As investors sought out higher-yielding assets, relative
yields on European securitizations and typically safer covered
bonds plunged. Buyers demand 72 basis points more than interbank
rates to buy senior notes backed by U.K. prime residential
mortgages, approaching the lowest since January 2008, and a drop
from 165 basis points a year earlier, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. data.  Covered Bonds  Sales of covered bonds from European banks dropped to about
198 billion euros from 294 billion euros a year ago, according
to JPMorgan. Covered bonds, known in  Germany  as pfandbriefe, are
backed by mortgages or public-sector loans and differ from other
forms of asset-backed securities in that the notes are
guaranteed by the issuer.  Investors demand 126 basis points above the asset swap
spread to buy European covered bonds compared 203 basis points a
year ago, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Jumbo Covered
Bonds Index shows.  Spreads on European commercial mortgage-backed securities
fell more than 50 percent to 275 basis points, the lowest since
July 2008, according to JPMorgan data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  