-- Diamond Says Sleep With Your Kids, Spare Parents: Books
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-12-31T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/diamond-says-sleep-with-your-kids-don-t-kill-your-folks-books.html
Human beings and apes went their
separate ways 6 million years ago, Jared Diamond notes near the
beginning of “ The World Until Yesterday .” Yet agriculture has
been around for just 11,000 years, and the first state
government arose only 5,400 years ago.  In other words, life as we know it accounts for a small
fraction of human history. By looking closely at the world’s
last few “traditional” (i.e., tribal) societies -- especially in
New Guinea, where he’s spent much of the past half-century --
Diamond shows what it must have been like before that.  He deftly explodes a few myths, beginning with Jean-Jacques
Rousseau’s “speculative and ungrounded theory” that “humans were
naturally compassionate in a state of nature, and that wars
began only with the rise of states.”  The reality was the opposite -- maniacal xenophobia and
perennial war. If you encountered a stranger on your path, you
had essentially two options: run or fight.  The percentage of people that tribal societies typically
lost in conflicts dwarfs German and Russian war losses during
the 20th century (even if the numbers seem less dramatic at
first because they aren’t in the millions).  That’s why they’ve so often accepted state control with so
little protest: Since states, for their own reasons, suppress
tribal warfare, life under their authority is less dangerous and
a lot more pleasant.  Lessons Learned  “The World Until Yesterday” is packed with fascinating
information of this kind. But because Diamond has constructed it
as a series of lessons we can learn from what once were called
primitive peoples, it’s also problematic.  I don’t doubt his good faith when he declares, “My own
outlook on life has been transformed and enriched by my years
among one set of traditional societies, that of New Guinea.” (He
previously wrote about these societies, among others, in his
Pulitzer Prize-winning book, “ Guns, Germs and Steel .”)  But then what does he tell us we can learn from them? To
value mediation as a method of settling legal disputes. To treat
the elderly with greater dignity. To watch our salt and sugar
intake.  Fifty years of study -- for that?  Diamond’s most intriguing discussion, in terms of novel and
usable information, involves child rearing. I was happy to find
him advocating, for example, that parents allow small children
to share their beds; I’m still mad about how strictly my own
parents barred me from theirs.  Too Obvious  But even when Diamond offers convincing arguments about
“the precocious development of social skills” in the children of
hunter-gatherers, he dulls them with an irritating habit of
belaboring the hyper-obvious:  “Naturally, I’m not saying that we should emulate all
child-rearing practices of hunter-gatherers. I don’t recommend
that we return to the hunter-gatherer practices of selective
infanticide, high risk of death in childbirth and letting
infants play with knives and get burned by fires.”  Or, on the elderly: “I don’t know any individual American
whose devoted care of his aged parents goes as far as pre-
chewing their food, nor any who has strangled his aged parents
and been publicly commended as a good son for doing so.”  Much like his friends in the New Guinea jungle, for whom
“there is no time pressure, no schedule,” Diamond is in no hurry
to get where he’s going.  What disturbs me more than the leisurely blandness of his
style, though, is his apparent conviction (or maybe it came from
his agent or his publisher) that he had to make his book
relevant by delivering news you can use. The idea that knowledge
isn’t sufficient in itself is depressing if not insulting.  I was absorbed as I read “The World Before Yesterday.”
But faced with the embarrassing question its subtitle poses --
“What Can We Learn From Traditional Societies?” -- I would have
to answer: Not all that much.  “The World Until Yesterday” is published by  Viking (PSON)  in the
U.S. and  Allen Lane  in the U.K. (498 pages, $36, 20 pounds). To
buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 