-- Emaar Drops as U.A.E. Said to Cap Expat Mortgages: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-12-31T07:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/emaar-drops-as-u-a-e-said-to-cap-expat-mortgages-dubai-mover.html
Dubai’s real estate stocks fell, led
by  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  after the United Arab Emirates was said
to have capped mortgages for expatriates, prompting concern a
recovery in the property industry may be at risk.  Shares of the developer of the world’s tallest skyscraper
dropped 1.1 percent, the first decline since Dec. 25, to 3.77
dirhams, at 10:30 a.m. in the emirate, trimming this year’s
rally to 47 percent. The stock led a drop in the benchmark DFM
General Index, which slipped 0.4 percent. Builder  Arabtec
Holding Co. (ARTC)  and property companies  Drake & Scull International (DSI) 
PJSC and  Deyaar Development (DEYAAR)  PJSC also fell.  The second-biggest Arab economy issued guidelines to
restrict mortgages for expatriates to 50 percent of property
value, according to three bankers who saw a circular issued
yesterday. Home loans to U.A.E. citizens can be as much 70
percent of the value of the property for the first house and 60
percent for a second house, two of the bankers said. The bankers
declined to be identified because the information isn’t public
yet. There were no loan-to-value limits under the earlier
policies.  The changes would be “clearly negative if implemented and
could be even more so if applied retrospectively,” said  Julian Bruce , Dubai-based head of institutional trading at EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE. The move “might take the shine off the anticipated
continuation of year-end window-dressing,” he said.  Nobody was available at the Abu Dhabi-based central bank to
comment when Bloomberg News called.  Dubai’s real estate market is showing some signs of
recovery after prices plunged about 65 percent over four years
since the onset of the global credit crisis. Property prices in
Dubai have crept up this year as the economy recovered and banks
revived mortgage lending.  The recovery will help Emaar post a  16 percent gain  in 2012
profit to 2.07 billion dirhams ($564 million), according to the
 average estimate  of 11 analysts on Bloomberg. Arabtec shares
have rallied 47 percent in 2012 and Deyaar’s have surged 69
percent, outpacing a 20 percent gain in the  DFM General Index. (DFMGI)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  