-- Emerging Stocks Cap 15% 2012 Gain as Chinese Output Grows
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-12-31T21:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/emerging-stocks-climb-for-sixth-day-on-china-s-factory-output.html
Most emerging-market stocks rose,
pushing the benchmark index to a 15 percent advance in 2012, as
Chinese manufacturing expanded and U.S. lawmakers negotiated to
avert automatic tax increases and spending cuts.  Zhuzhou CSR Times Electric Co. (3898) , which supplies electrical
systems for China’s railways, gained for a fourth day.  China
Life Insurance Co. (601628)  jumped the most in three weeks as the
nation’s securities watchdog said insurers would be allowed to
set up mutual funds.  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the world’s biggest
maker of personal computers, fell to a five-week low after the
chief executive officer cut his stake. China’s Shanghai
Composite Index climbed to a six-month high.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index was little changed at
1,055.20 in New York, as 189 stocks rose while 163 fell. Chinese
factory output grew at the fastest pace in 19 months, HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said today. While, the U.S.
House of Representatives doesn’t plan any votes on the budget
tonight, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell said lawmakers
are “very, very close” to a deal to avert the $600 billion in
tax increases and spending cuts set to start at midnight.  “We’re getting farther away from this fear of a hard
landing in  China  and getting closer to some kind of meaningful
recovery in the rate of growth of the world’s second-largest
economy,” Michael Gayed, the chief investment strategist at
Pension Partners LLC, said by phone in New York.  Chinese Rebound  Equity markets in Russia,  Hungary ,  Poland , the Czech
Republic, South Korea,  Taiwan , Indonesia, Thailand and the
 Philippines  were closed for holidays. Markets in Brazil,  Chile 
and Argentina were also closed.  The 21 nations in the developing-nations gauge send about
17 percent of their exports to the U.S. on average, World Trade
Organization data show. Allowing the tax increases and spending
cuts to take effect would cause a recession in the first half of
2013, according to the U.S. Congressional Budget Office.  “Most traders have their eyes on the U.S. fiscal cliff and
how it unfolds,” said Alex Mathews, the head of research at
Geojit BNP Paribas Financial Services Ltd. in Kochi, South
India.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, added 1.5
percent to $44.35, and rallied 17 percent this year. The Chicago
Board Options Exchange  Emerging Markets  ETF Volatility Index, a
measure of options prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, dropped 5.8 percent to 21.70.  Zloty Rallies  The Shanghai Composite of domestic Chinese shares climbed
1.6 percent to its highest level since June 20. The gauge jumped
15 percent this month, the most since July 2009. The  BSE India
Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, slipped less than 0.1 percent for a
26 percent gain in 2012. The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI) 
gained 0.5 percent to a record, led by a 9.4 percent surge in
 Kuala Lumpur Kepong Bhd. (KLK)   India’s Sensex had the biggest gain this year among the so-
called BRIC nations, while the  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP)  was the worst
performer with a 3.2 percent increase. Brazil’s  Bovespa Index (IBOV) 
rose 7.4 percent and Russia’s Micex Index added 5.4 percent.  Mexico’s  IPC Index (MEXBOL)  was little changed, falling less than
0.1 percent.  Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB (FEMSAUBD) , owner of Latin
America’s largest convenience store chain, fell 1 percent,
leading decliners on the gauge.  Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SA ,
operator of the nation’s stock exchange jumped 3.4 percent, the
steepest one-day rally in almost a month.  South Korea’s won advanced 0.6 percent against the dollar
in offshore trading today after inflation slowed, extending this
year’s advance to 8.3 percent. Poland’s zloty led gains among
major emerging market currencies in 2012, climbing 9.4 percent
versus the euro and 11 percent against the dollar. Argentine’s
peso has dropped 13 percent this year, the worst performance
among developing-nation currencies.  Utilities Drop  PT Bumi Resources (BUMI) , which slumped 73 percent in Jakarta in
2012, was the worst performer on the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) 
for the year. Its parent, Bumi Plc, is at the center of a
dispute between its founders Nathaniel Rothschild and
Indonesia’s Bakrie Group.  United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP) , India’s largest distiller, had the
biggest gain on the  MSCI gauge  this year after climbing 286
percent.  Diageo Plc (DGE)  said in November it will buy a controlling
stake in United Spirits for $2.04 billion.  Health-care companies rose the most among the 10  industry
groups  in the MSCI index of developing nations, rallying 32
percent this year, while utilities were the worst performers
with a 2.4 percent advance. Brazilian power companies led
utility declines as lawmakers intervened to cut tariffs, with
Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA, the state-controlled power
generator, sinking 65 percent in 2012.  Chinese PMI  Zhuzhou CSR, based in Hunan, China, jumped 4.7 percent in
Hong Kong today. The final reading of a Purchasing Managers’
Index for China was 51.5 in December, according to data released
today by HSBC and Markit Economics. That compares with a 50.9
preliminary reading issued Dec. 14 and a final 50.5 in November.
A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  China Life Insurance rose 3.1 percent in Hong Kong, its
third day of gains.  New China Life Insurance Co. (1336)  added 2.6
percent and  Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. (2318)  gained 1.9 percent.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission posted draft
rules on its website yesterday allowing insurers’ asset
management units and securities brokerages to set up mutual
funds, a move the regulator said seeks to “attract various
funds into the capital market.”  Emaar Slides  Lenovo sank 2.2 percent in Hong Kong, its second day of
losses after Chief Executive Officer  Yang Yuanqing  sold 29
million shares of the company.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, dropped 1.6 percent, the most in two weeks. The
United Arab Emirates, where foreigners make up more than 80
percent of the population, issued guidelines to restrict
mortgages for expatriates to 50 percent of property value,
according to guidelines issued by the central bank yesterday and
obtained by Bloomberg News.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries narrowed 7 basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 264 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  