-- Ten Ways for Obama to Remake the World
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-31T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/ten-ways-for-obama-to-remake-the-world.html
We could be nearing a golden hour in
 U.S. foreign policy , that  rare moment  when a newly re-elected
president  theoretically  has the experience and clout to make
good things happen. As President  Barack Obama  told Russian
President  Dmitry Medvedev  last March before an unanticipated
open microphone, “This is my last election. After my election I
have more flexibility.”  We can think of many places more deserving of presidential
flexibility than  Russia , which is in such a state of pugnacious
isolationism that it will simply pocket any concessions.
Instead, Bloomberg View has put together a list of foreign
policy challenges that merit the spending of political capital
in 2013. Instead of focusing on worthy perennials -- ratifying
the Law of the Sea Treaty, or rediscovering  Latin America  (as
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  astutely suggested) -- we’ve
tried to find areas where a sharp course correction is essential
and might pay big dividends.  -- Let 2013 be the year that the U.S. starts taking  North
Korea  seriously. A U.S. policy predicated on getting the North
Koreans to give up their nuclear weapons before trying to
resolve larger issues -- beginning with a peace treaty for the
Korean peninsula, which is still technically at war -- is a
nonstarter. Kim Jong Un may not be the  sexiest man alive , but
he’s not crazy.  -- The administration needs to abandon its reticence about 
repression  in Bahrain, where a ban on demonstrations in October
showed a  retreat  from once-promised reforms. The U.S. should
reimpose the cutoff of arms sales to Bahrain that it lifted in
May. It should also pursue a  report  suggesting that Bahrain
violated its Fair Trade Agreement with the U.S. by firing 2,700
people who participated in 2011 pro-democracy strikes. The U.S.
belongs on the side of the Arab Spring, not the Arab Winter.  -- In Syria, the administration should get off the
sidelines and work to consolidate the opposition to the regime
of Bashar al-Assad; fund, equip and train rebel forces that sign
up to a nonsectarian agenda; and renew efforts to persuade the
 United Nations Security Council  to take action.  -- On Iran, the U.S. should continue to lead the global
sanctions effort. Yet it should simultaneously reopen the door
to a deal under which Iran complies with  International Atomic
Energy Agency  demands on monitoring, access and information, and
halts nuclear fuel production -- with the exception of enriching
uranium to the maximum 3.5 percent level that is required to
fuel civilian power stations, a level of enrichment that’s a red
line for Iran. A fully monitored Iranian low-enrichment program
entails risks and may not satisfy the government in  Israel . But
it has as good a chance of blocking Iran from acquiring a
nuclear weapon as airstrikes, with fewer risks and unintended
consequences.  -- We learned after the presidential election that the
Obama administration, planning for a potential loss, had been
 codifying  the U.S. approach to killing terrorists with unmanned
drones. Let’s hope electoral victory hasn’t stemmed progress.
Obama pushed the drone war into overdrive four years ago, and
more than 2,500 people have been killed in about 300 strikes,
mostly in  Afghanistan  and Yemen. Going ahead, we need clear
rules on whether the 2001 authorization of the use of force in
Afghanistan is a legitimate legal basis for killings taking
place 12 years later and as far away as North Africa; how names
are added to the “kill list”; whether the Central Intelligence
Agency or military should run the program, whether American
citizens such as Anwar al-Awlaki have greater legal protections
than noncitizen targets; and what the criteria should be for
deciding on a strike as opposed to capturing the terrorist.  -- In its zeal to prevent another global financial crisis,
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission has drafted rules to
make the  derivatives market  more transparent. Problem is, the
CFTC has moved much more quickly than its global counterparts
and risks fomenting regulatory  arbitrage , in which it pushes
trading away from U.S. markets to countries with more opaque
rules. The U.S. needs to work with global regulators on rules
that will be comparable enough to prevent market participants
from exploiting regulatory gaps.  -- Will the legalization of marijuana by Colorado and
Washington force a truce in the U.S. war on drugs? Mexicans and
Central Americans, tens of thousands of whom have died in the
crossfire, can only hope so. Legalization is actually better for
Mexico than creeping decriminalization, which expands the U.S.
market for Mexican drugs instead of supplanting it. If the U.S.
lets the state laws stand, the larger challenge will be ensuring
continued cooperation in the fight against more dangerous drugs
such as heroin and cocaine. The U.S. can advance that cause by
de-emphasizing shiny helicopters and special drug squads in
favor of support for judicial and legal reforms to fight
corruption. It can also get rid of the “certification”
charade, which conditions U.S. assistance to countries on their
willingness to help it with its drug-demand problem.  -- We hope that the 51st year of the U.S. embargo against
Cuba will be its last. Obama eased some restrictions in his
first term -- and he won half the Cuban-American vote in
November. He can now encourage free-market advocates in Cuba by
lifting sanctions that even most Cuban-Americans don’t think
serve any purpose -- the sooner the better, given the flood of
Cuban emigres that new travel freedoms may begin to unleash this
month.  -- The U.S. will pursue trade deals such as the Trans-
Pacific Partnership, an agreement among 11 nations in  Asia  and
the Americas, along with a possible deal to eliminate barriers
with the European Union. Yet such discrete growth-boosting
agreements shouldn’t be achieved at the expense of U.S.
engagement with the  World Trade Organization , which still offers
the best framework for easing trade disputes and creating a
global system of rules. The first step would be to lead the rest
of the world back to negotiations that ended in 2011, after the
collapse of the Doha Development Agenda in a dispute between
 Brazil ,  India  and  South Africa  on one side, and the U.S. and
Western Europe on the other.  -- Earlier in his presidency, Obama rightly calculated that
investments in Israeli-Palestinian peace-making would bring few
returns, but disengagement has become a  dangerous policy  as
Palestinian supporters of negotiations are  losing the argument 
to militants. To bolster  Mahmoud Abbas , the relatively moderate
chairman of the strapped  Palestinian Authority , the U.S. should
press Israel to stop withholding  tax revenue  it collects on
behalf of the authority and to cease its aggressive expansion of
Jewish settlements in the West Bank.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 