-- End of the World As We Know It and I Feel Fine
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2012-12-31T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/end-of-the-world-as-we-know-it-and-i-feel-fine.html
Most of us acknowledge that some of
our most cherished beliefs are based on faith, not facts. Even
so, it takes a lot to dislodge those beliefs. When we are
confronted by contrary evidence, we may dig in even more deeply.
Consider a cautionary tale, exotic to be sure, but helping to
explain why evidence-challenged thinking persists in a lot of
areas, including politics and business.  Harold Camping , a Christian radio talk-show host, predicted
that the world was going to end on May 21, 2011, with the coming
of the rapture. He contended that the Earth would be ravaged,
that all human beings would be judged, and that believers would
ascend to heaven. He said that those who weren’t saved would
experience five months of “hell on earth” until the annihilation
of creation on Oct. 21, 2011.  Camping’s program could be heard daily on his network,
 Family Radio , one of the largest Christian broadcasting networks
in the U.S., which benefited from a budget of tens of millions
of dollars. His prediction was followed by millions of people
around the world, and a lot of them seemed to believe it.  But did they, really? Social scientists have offered two
different hypotheses about those who appear to hold extreme
beliefs.  The first is that they are entirely sincere. They are
influenced by figures of authority and also by trusted peers.
When they express a belief that the world is ending -- or any
other extreme belief that is essentially a matter of faith --
they mean it.  Sincere Belief  The second hypothesis is that people who purport to accept
extreme beliefs often lack conviction and are responding to
social pressures. If you could somehow get them in private, you
would find a lot more skepticism, uncertainty and doubt.  It isn’t easy to test the competing hypotheses. Economist
 Ned Augenblick  of the  University of California  at Berkeley and
his co-authors have now provided such a test. At least for
Camping’s followers, the answer is unambiguous: Their belief was
entirely sincere.  Here’s how the test went. Four weeks before May 21, 2011,
Augenblick and his co-authors  asked  a number of Camping’s
followers: Would you prefer to have $5 today or some greater
amount of money after May 21? That greater amount ranged up to
$500. The researchers posed exactly the same questions to
members of the Seventh-day Adventist Church, who also believe
that Judgment Day is coming, but not by a specified date.  The median cutoff answer from  the Seventh-day Adventists 
was $7 -- well within the range of answers given by most people.
By contrast, the median cutoff answer from Family Radio members
was $500, meaning that they would prefer $5 now to $500 on May
22. As far as the researchers could tell with the payments they
offered, there was no amount that Family Radio members would
prefer on May 22 to $5 today -- compelling evidence that they
sincerely believed that the rapture was coming on May 21.  We know, of course, that the rapture didn’t come on that
day. Did Family Radio members conclude that the whole idea was a
fraud? Not at all.  Camping himself quickly  recovered , insisting that he
had been correct, but that the world wasn’t ending for a while,
because of a divine decision to delay implementation: “On May 21
Christ did come spiritually to put all of the unsaved throughout
the world into judgment. But that universal judgment will not be
physically seen until the last day of the five month judgment
period, on October 21, 2011.”  This kind of fancy footwork is characteristic of leaders
and followers, who often respond by doubling down in the
aftermath of false apocalyptic  prophecies .  Contrary Evidence  For decades, social psychologists have invoked findings of
this sort to support the idea that people seek to avoid
“cognitive dissonance” by dismissing evidence that is
inconsistent with their deepest beliefs. When people are
sincerely committed to the truth of some proposition, they will
work hard to hold on to it, even if the facts stand in their way.  Our desire to maintain our deepest convictions may be so
intense that contrary evidence doesn’t merely fail to undermine
those convictions; on the contrary, and bizarrely, it may
fortify them. For example, researchers have  found  that after
hearing about apparently credible evidence to the contrary, many
people who believed that  Iraq  had weapons of mass destruction
ended up thinking the same thing they thought before -- only
more strongly.  The good news is that in the face of clear contradictory
evidence, people eventually find it hard to maintain false
beliefs. In May 2012, Camping asked for forgiveness for his
mistaken prediction about Judgment Day. “God has humbled us
through the events of May 21,” he wrote. “We must also openly
acknowledge that we have no new evidence pointing to another
date for the end of the world.”  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Felix Frankfurter professor of law
at  Harvard University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“ Simpler : The Future of Government,” forthcoming in 2013. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 