-- Leonardo Outdoes Hockney, Hirst for 2012 Art Headlines
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-12-31T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/leonardo-outdoes-hockney-hirst-for-2012-art-headlines.html
For a man born 560 years ago,
 Leonardo da Vinci  made a great deal of news in 2012.  The exhibition of his work at the National Gallery, London,
had the public standing in line from before dawn for tickets.  In Paris, later in the spring, another show built around
the cleaned “Virgin and Child With St. Anne” was equally
thronged. This contained a recently identified contemporary
version of the  Mona Lisa , which historians said was probably
produced in the master’s studio in parallel with the original.  Leonardo’s year ended on a lower note. Earlier, there were
also indications that some remnants of his lost “Battle of
Anghiari” may exist behind a wall in the Palazzo Vecchio,
Florence,  Italy . However, the search to find it was put on hold
in September.  This month, it was announced the Museum of Art,  Dallas , had
failed to agree a price for the “ Salvator Mundi ” -- a painting
newly attributed to him and included in the National Gallery
exhibition. If Dallas can’t afford a Leonardo, one might wonder,
who can?  On the other hand, maybe Texas is better off without it.
Though I agree it is an authentic Leonardo, it is an odd and not
very attractive work.  Among younger artists, 75-year-old  David Hockney  enjoyed a
spectacular twelve months, beginning in January with “A Bigger
Picture,” an array of paintings and drawings mainly done within
the previous few years, and only shortly before the opening.  The show attracted more than 600,000 visitors in a short
two-and-a-half-month run at the  Royal Academy .  Getting Better  They would probably still have been lining up down
Piccadilly, if the exhibition had not had to move on to Bilbao,
 Spain . It’s now at the Museum Ludwig, Cologne,  Germany  (until
Feb 3, 2013). At each venue it has looked different, and in
certain ways better.  The Cologne version has the best installation of Hockney’s
3, 9 and 18 camera films, including an astonishing room with
moving, synchronized, multi-image films of the same road at
different times of year, one season to each wall.  Hockney didn’t receive a unanimously positive reaction from
critics. I suspect that was because in painting and drawing the
landscape he has been doing something that contemporary artists
aren’t supposed to do. The art world is quite a conformist
place, though it likes to think it loves “transgression.”  Another celebrated British artist with the initials D.H.
had a big, museum show in Olympic year.  “ Damien Hirst ” at Tate Modern was also popular in terms
of attendance: 463,087 visitors in a five-month run.  Plastic Skulls  It broke another kind of record, with some of the most
expensive items ever marketed in an exhibition shop, including
an edition of painted plastic skulls at 36,800 pounds ($59,388)
each and a set of plates at 10,500 pounds.  The visitors were not wrong to flock to Tate Modern,
because this was a good representation of Hirst’s work. Close
examination of the labels, however, revealed some less
flattering figures.  A surprising proportion of the works on show, and almost
all the best, were two decades old or more. In an artist who is
47 years old, this was not an encouraging sign.  A startlingly lackluster show of new  oil paintings  at  White
Cube  in London’s Bermondsey tended to confirm that Hirst,
temporarily or permanently, has run out of new ideas. That isn’t
good for someone who is, at least partly a conceptual artist.
His work may well not last as well as Leonardo’s has when he’s
not 47, but 560 years old.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Craig
Seligman  on books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 