-- Fiscal Cliff Uncertainty Slowed Structured Note Sales in U.S.
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2012-12-31T21:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/fiscal-cliff-uncertainty-slowed-structured-note-sales-in-u-s-.html
Sales of structured notes in the
U.S. dropped about 78 percent during the final week of the year
as the possibility of Congress failing to agree on a budget deal
constrained issuance.  Investors bought $213.6 million of the securities in the
five days ended Dec. 28, down from $968.7 million in the
previous period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Banks
sold $2.08 billion of structured notes in December, the slowest
month since January 2010, when Bloomberg began collecting
comprehensive data on the securities registered with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  The prospect of the so-called “fiscal cliff,” more than
$600 billion in tax increases and federal spending cuts set to
automatically take effect tomorrow if a deal is not reached,
contributed to the December slowdown, said Deryk Rhodes, vice
president of structured product trading at Incapital LLC in Boca
Raton,  Florida .  “Some people are definitely holding off,” he said. “I’ve
had a few clients say, ‘Hey, I’m interested. I’m just going to
pull the trigger next week.”’  President  Barack Obama  said today an agreement to avert the
fiscal cliff appeared to be “within sight.”  December is traditionally a slow time for sales, said John Tessar, senior vice president at JVB Financial Group LLC in Boca
Raton, Florida.  “It’s that time of year when people take their vacations
and very little gets done,” he said. “Unfortunately it’s an
expected and self-fulfilling prophecy.”  During the comparable week in 2011, investors bought $535.2
million of structured notes in the U.S., 37 percent less than
the previous period, Bloomberg data show.  Biggest Offering  Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  sold $22.6 million of five-year auto-
callable notes linked to the stock price of Apple Inc., the
largest offering last week. The securities, issued Dec. 27,
yield 10 percent a year as long as the share price doesn’t fall
below 65 percent of its initial value, according to a  prospectus 
filed with the SEC. The German bank can call the notes monthly
after one year. UBS AG distributed the securities for a 2.5
percent fee.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in  New York  at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  