-- Geithner Tells Congress U.S. Reaches Debt Limit
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-12-31T23:53:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/geithner-tells-congress-u-s-reaches-debt-limit.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  told Congress that the U.S. hit its statutory debt
limit, necessitating emergency steps announced last week as a
way to keep funding the government and avoid default.  Geithner said he had issued a “debt issuance suspension
period” for the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund,
effective today and to last until Feb. 28, 2013. The letter said
the Treasury was taking similar action for the Postal Service
Retiree Health Benefits Fund.  “Federal retirees and employees will be unaffected by
these actions,” according to Geithner’s letter. It said the
funds “will be made whole” after Congress increases the debt
limit.  Geithner said on Dec. 26 the department expected to hit the
$16.4 trillion debt ceiling today, while various “extraordinary
measures” he can take would create about $200 billion of
“headroom” to avoid possible default.  Asked whether the U.S. debt limit was reached, a Treasury
official responded by e-mail: “As Secretary Geithner laid out
last week, we will reach the statutory debt limit today.”  Debt Limit  Republicans have attempted to use the need for a debt-limit
increase to force deeper spending cuts, replicating the 2011
showdown that caused the U.S. to come within days of default and
led to a credit-rating downgrade.  Congressional leaders were negotiating with President
 Barack Obama ’s administration over ways to avoid more than $600
billion in spending cuts and tax increases scheduled to go into
effect tomorrow.  The U.S. House of Representatives doesn’t plan
any votes on the  federal budget  tonight, meaning that Congress
for now will fail to avert what is commonly referred to as the
“fiscal cliff.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  