-- India’s Sensex Swings Between Gains, Losses as Wipro Advances
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-12-31T04:22:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/india-s-stock-futures-fall-as-central-bank-warns-of-rising-risk.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stocks swung between gains
and losses, with the BSE  India  Sensitive Index poised to
complete its biggest annual advance since 2009.  The Sensitive Index, or Sensex, was little changed at
19,449.38 as of 9:30 a.m. in Mumbai, after changing direction at
least seven times.  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  headed for a six-month high after
shareholders approved a demerger plan.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) 
led energy companies higher.  ITC Ltd. (ITC)  paced declines among
consumer-staple shares.  The Sensex has risen 26 percent this year, the most since
an 81 percent surge in 2009, amid government steps to open the
economy to offshore investment. Lower savings, “relatively
high” inflation and moderating investment and consumption have
boosted risks to the economy, the  Reserve Bank  of India said in
its biannual  Financial Stability Report  on Dec. 28.  Europe ’s
debt crisis and the so-called fiscal cliff in the U.S. offer
“major downside risks” to global growth, the RBI said.  “Indian stocks have run up sharply on the back of global
liquidity,” Rajendra Wadher, a director at PRB Securities Ltd.,
said in a phone interview today. “If liquidity tapers off or
moves away to other markets due to the risks highlighted by the
RBI, markets will correct in the near term.”  In the U.S., Congress worked with little more than a day
remaining to avert more than $600 billion of tax increases and
federal spending cuts. There were still “significant
differences” between Democrats and Republicans, Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  said yesterday. The U.S. accounted for 11
percent of India’s exports in the six months to September 2011,
commerce ministry data show.  Wipro, the third-largest Indian software exporter, jumped
1.5 percent to 397.8 rupees, poised for the highest close since
July 3. Reliance rose 0.6 percent to 845.15 rupees, on course
for its highest close since Oct. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net 
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  