-- Iron Ore Rises Most Since October as China Mills Seen Restocking
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-12-31T12:59:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/iron-ore-rises-most-since-october-as-china-mills-seen-restocking.html
The price of iron ore delivered to
 China , the largest importer, gained 3.9 percent, the most since
October, amid speculation the country’s steel mills are re-
stocking after stockpiles of the alloy fell to a three-year low.  Ore with 62 percent iron content at the port of Tianjin
 climbed  to $144.90 per dry metric ton, the highest since May 3,
according to The Steel Index. That’s the largest one-day gain
since Oct. 9 and means the price advanced 25 percent this month.  “The re-stocking cycle may be starting in China on a pick-
up in steel consumption while steel inventory is at its lowest
point since end-2009,” analysts including  Johnson Leung  at
Jefferies Group Inc. in  Hong Kong  said in an e-mailed report
today, citing data from Mysteel.  Iron-ore is reversing a slump from Sept. 5, when the cost
slid to the lowest in nearly three years amid stalling steel
demand in China, the biggest producer. Still, the price of
imported ore is rising faster than domestically produced supply,
which may curb demand for shipments, according to Jefferies.  Steel reinforcement-bar futures in China had their biggest
monthly gain in 3 1/2 years after data showed the country’s
manufacturing expanded in December. Rebar for delivery in May
rose 1.8 percent to end at 3,988  yuan  ($640) a metric ton on the
Shanghai Futures Exchange, the highest closing price for the
most active contract since July 10. Prices gained 14 percent in
December, the most since July 2009.  “There is just more confidence in the physical market,”
Ben Goggin, a broker of  iron-ore  swaps at ICAP Plc in  London ,
said by e-mail today. “Sentiment is pushing steel futures up,
sentiment is driving Chinese demand, and there’s tighter supply
in China.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  