-- Italy Debt Rallies in Euro-Area Bonds’ Best Year as Crisis Eases
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-01-01T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/italy-rallies-in-euro-area-bonds-best-year-as-debt-crisis-eases.html
Italian and Portuguese bonds rallied
in 2012 as euro-area  government securities  had their best year
on record after policy makers stepped up efforts to contain
market turmoil that threatened to destroy the currency bloc.  A pledge in July from European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  to do “whatever it takes” to safeguard the monetary
union pulled down  Spain ’s borrowing costs from a euro-era
record. Irish securities delivered the best returns since 1993
as the ECB outlined a bond-buying plan that eased tension in
 Europe ’s three-year-old debt crisis. German bunds underperformed
French and Austrian peers as record-low yields dented demand for
the region’s top-rated fixed-income assets.  “We have seen a significant change in sentiment,” said
Mohit Kumar, head of European fixed-income strategy at Deutsche
Bank AG in  London . “ Portugal , Ireland,  Italy , they’ve all done
really well. The primary support for the market came from the
ECB, which removed the risk of an aggressive selloff in any of
the markets and of a breakup of the euro region.”  Portuguese bonds handed investors a 57 percent return
through Dec. 28, the largest since at least 1994, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Italian debt rose 21 percent, the
first annual gain since 2009, while Irish sovereign securities
returned 29 percent.  An  index  of all euro-region  government bonds  surged 12
percent, the most since Bloomberg began collecting the data in
1999, and extending the previous year’s 1.5 percent advance.  Debt Turmoil  The gains in Italian and Portuguese securities followed
their worst year on record in 2011, when investors’ faith in
lawmakers’ ability to manage debt burdens across the region
faded. As market turmoil deepened, European leaders outlined
plans for tighter bank supervision, budget coordination and a
so-called political union, while the ECB said it would backstop
the government-bond market by buying securities of distressed
countries that request aid from the region’s rescue fund.  The action prompted money managers at Pacific Investment
Management Co., which runs the world’s biggest bond fund, and
BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest money manager with $3.7
trillion in assets, to buy Spanish and Italian debt.  “The ECB has provided much greater stability and has
clipped the tail-risk of an imminent downward spiral across the
euro zone,”  Andrew Balls , the London-based head of European
 portfolio management  at Pimco, said in an interview with  Guy
Johnson  on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” on Dec. 19.
“That’s a real, significant positive.”  An increase in Spanish or Italian yields would represent a
buying opportunity for Pimco, he said.  Spain’s Backstop  Spain’s bonds were still the euro area’s third-worst
performers in 2012, according to the Bloomberg/EFFAS bond
indexes, gaining 6.2 percent. German securities, Europe’s
benchmark government debt, had the lowest return at 4.5 percent,
followed by the 5.8 percent gain for Dutch securities.  Spanish 10-year yields fell to 5.26 percent on Dec. 28,
down from a euro-era high of 7.75 percent reached on July 25.
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said on Dec. 14 the nation won’t
lose access to debt markets and doesn’t need to trigger the ECB
support by asking for financial aid at the moment.  “We expect Spain to request a bailout program in early
2013,” Maxime Alimi, a Paris-based euro-area economist at Axa
Investment Managers, wrote in the firm’s yearly outlook,
published on Dec. 13. Elections in Italy in February, and in
 Germany  in September, will ensure politics is “in the
spotlight,” he wrote.  Receding Risks  Ten-year  Italian yields  fell 261 basis points, or 2.61
percentage points, last year to 4.5 percent. The rate ranged
between 4.35 percent and 7.18 percent.  Spanish and Italian debt was boosted in the first two
months of the year after the ECB lent 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) to banks via two so-called Longer-Term Refinancing
Operations in December 2011 and February 2012, some of which was
used to buy bonds. As the effect of the LTROs wore off,
borrowing costs began to climb again, prompting the ECB to
announce its bond-buying plan aimed at curtailing bets against
the currency union.  The introduction of the LTRO “continued to provide support
for non-core markets during the first few months of 2012,” said
Nishay Patel, a strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London,
referring to higher-yielding securities in the region. “Risks
associated with a euro-area breakup have receded in the last six
months.”  Negative Yields  In the so-called core markets, Austrian, Belgian, Dutch and
French securities all outperformed benchmark bunds after
Germany’s  10-year bund yields  dropped to a record-low 1.13
percent in June and its two-year rates fell below zero for the
first time, reaching an all-time low of minus 0.097 percent on
Aug. 2.  A negative yield means investors will receive less in
repayments on the German securities through maturity than the
amount they pay to buy them.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold French 10-year
bonds instead of bunds narrowed to 69 basis points, down from a
2012 high of 153 basis points set on Jan. 6. The so-called
spread between Belgian and German 10-year securities was 74
basis points, down from as much as 279 basis points on Jan. 9.  The  Dutch-German spread  narrowed to 18 basis points from 82
on April 24, while the Austrian-German difference was 44 basis
points from 162 on Jan. 6.  German 10-year yields may rise to 2.06 percent by the end
of the fourth quarter 2013, according to analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Record Restructuring  Greece , which last auctioned bonds in March 2010, pushed
through the biggest sovereign restructuring in history in 2012
to reduce its obligations and maintain access to rescue funds.
Private investors forgave about 100 billion euros of debt in
March.  The price of Greece’s 2 percent bonds maturing in February
2023, which were provided as part of the debt writedown, fell to
13.29 percent of face value in May, before climbing to 48.45 as
of Dec. 28.  In December, when fresh measures were required to trim the
debt load and release international aid, Greece used 11.3
billion euros of its latest loan from Europe’s bailout fund to
buy back 32 billion euros of the bonds it issued in March.  2013 Sales  Ireland and Portugal, the two other euro-region nations
under international aid programs, will both return to the  bond
market  in 2013, according to Lloyds Banking Group Plc. Ireland
will probably sell 8 billion euros of securities, while Portugal
may auction 6.6 billion euros, London-based strategists
Achilleas Georgolopoulos and Vatsala Datta wrote in a Dec. 14
note to clients.  The remaining euro-region nations will sell about 789
billion euros of bonds this year, down 55 billion euros from
2012, they forecast.  “There are still many risks for investors to navigate
going forward,” said Craig Veysey, head of fixed income at
Sanlam Private Investments Ltd. in London, a unit of Sanlam
Group, which oversees $72 billion. The elections in Italy and
Germany may mean “politicians steer clear from further
commitments” to extend euro-zone integration, he said.
“Worries about Greece, Spain and Italy can come to the fore
again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at   pdobson2@bloomberg.net . 