-- J&J Sirturo Wins FDA Approval to Treat Drug-Resistant TB
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-12-31T17:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/j-j-sirturo-wins-fda-approval-to-treat-drug-resistant-tb.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  won accelerated
U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval for its tuberculosis
tablet Sirturo, the first medicine in 40 years that provides a
new way to treat the contagious lung infection.  The FDA cleared Sirturo to be added to existing therapies
for use by adults whose illness is resistant to multiple drugs,
 New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J said today in a statement.
The FDA cleared Sirturo based on the second of what are
typically three clinical trial phases, an option the agency has
when a drug treats a serious disease and fills an unmet need.  There were 8.7 million new cases worldwide of tuberculosis
in 2011, with multidrug-resistant forms accounting for as many
as 400,000 cases, according to a World Health Organization
 report . The international charity Doctors Without Borders called
approval of Sirturo “an immense milestone,” and FDA
Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  said the drug adds a new weapon
“to the arsenal for fighting this deadly, contagious disease.”  “The fact that the drug is active against drug-resistant
forms of the disease makes it a potential game changer,” Dr.
Manica Balasegaram, executive director of the Doctors Without
Borders Access Campaign, said in an e-mailed statement.  Most drug-resistant cases occur in  China ,  India , the
Russian Federation and  South Africa , according to the WHO. While
tuberculosis was once the leading cause of death in the U.S.,
the drug-resistant version of the illness affected about 98
people in the nation last year, according to the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention.  Shorter Treatment  Finding a treatment for tuberculosis was the passion of
Paul Janssen, founder of J&J unit Janssen Pharmaceutica NV,
whose sister died of the disease, said Paul Stoffels, J&J’s
chief science officer and worldwide chairman of its
pharmaceuticals group. U.S. approval will help gain clearance in
other countries where the disease is more of a burden, he said.  “We’ll be able to treat many more people and get them
cured for tuberculosis,” Stoffels said in a telephone
interview. “In the long run, treatment might get simplified,
get shorter.”  J&J sought approval for the drug, known chemically as
bedaquiline, based on the second phase of clinical trials. The
company, the world’s second-biggest seller of health-care
products, plans to start a final-phase trial in the first
quarter of 2013 to study bedaquiline use for nine months
compared with a placebo, Chrispin Kambili, the global medical
affairs leader for bedaquiline, said in a telephone interview.  Long-Lasting Cough  Typical treatment currently for multidrug-resistant
tuberculosis can be as long as two years, Kambili said. The
disease is characterized by a long-lasting cough. The study
beginning next year will aim to examine 600 patients over five
years.  Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis is defined as not
responding to the two most popular drugs that are typically
first used against the illness: isoniazid and rifampicin,
according to the WHO.  Approval from the FDA and European authorities where J&J
also has applied for marketing authorization will help the
company achieve approval in parts of the world where U.S. and EU
opinions serve as references, Stoffels said.  J&J will request a voucher from the FDA that allows a
company that gained approval for a drug to treat a neglected
disease to seek an expedited review of another treatment. The
company hasn’t chosen which medicine it will use the voucher on
if it gets one, Stoffels said.  While more patients responded to the treatment regimen when
bedaquiline was added to the lineup, more patients who took the
medicine in studies also died, Kambili said.  “We were puzzled by this observation,” he said.  In one trial, 10 of 79 bedaquiline-treated patients died
compared with two of 81 who took a placebo, the FDA said in a
 report .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  