-- Japan Rebuke to G-20 Nations May Signal Moves to Weaken Yen
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-12-31T07:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/japan-rebuke-to-g-20-nations-may-signal-more-moves-to-weaken-yen.html
Japanese purchases of foreign bonds
to weaken the yen may become more likely as the nation rejects
trading partners’ rights to criticize its currency policies.  “Foreign countries have no right to lecture us,” Finance
Minister Taro Aso told reporters at a briefing in  Tokyo  on Dec.
28. He said that the U.S. should have a stronger dollar and
questioned whether major Group of 20 nations had stuck to
pledges from 2009 to avoid competitive currency devaluations.  Japan’s new Prime Minister Shinzo Abe may accept trade
friction as a cost of spurring growth and countering deflation
through a looser monetary policy and weaker yen. The currency is
set to complete its biggest annual decline in seven years after
Abe’s Liberal Democratic Party secured a landslide victory in
this month’s lower-house election. During his campaign, Abe said
foreign-bond purchases were a possible monetary tool.  “The LDP wants to boost stock prices before the upper-
house election in July next year, and the easiest option for
them is to weaken the currency,” said  Satoshi Okagawa , a senior
global-markets analyst in Singapore at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking
Corp., a unit of Japan’s second-biggest bank by market value.
“The explicit policy to weaken the yen is likely to upset the
U.S. and  China .”  The yen was at 86.08 per dollar as of 7:30 a.m. in  London 
after touching 86.64 on Dec. 28, the weakest since August 2010.
It traded at 113.53 per euro.  Currency Promises  The currency has dropped more than 10 percent versus the
greenback since the end of 2011, set to complete the biggest
annual slump since 2005. At the same time, the yen remains about
30 percent higher than it was five years ago.  In his Dec. 28 comments, Aso, a former prime minister, said
that  Japan  and other countries made “a promise not to resort to
competitive currency devaluations” at a G-20 meeting in 2009.
“How many countries have kept the promise? The U.S. should have
a stronger dollar. What about the euro?” he asked. “Foreign
countries have no right to lecture us” as Japan is the only
major economy to keep the pledge, Aso said.  The U.S. criticized Japan for undertaking unilateral sales
of the yen in August and October last year, after Group of Seven
economies earlier jointly intervened to weaken the currency in
the aftermath of an earthquake and tsunami.  “Rather than reacting to domestic ‘strong yen’ concerns by
intervening to try to influence the  exchange rate , Japan should
take fundamental and thoroughgoing steps to increase the
dynamism of the domestic economy,” the Treasury Department said
in a report in December last year.  Shrinking Economy  The  Liberal Democratic Party  faces the task of reviving
growth after the economy contracted for the past two quarters,
meeting the textbook definition of a recession. The nation’s
industrial output tumbled more than forecast in November to the
lowest level since the aftermath of last year’s record quake.  At the same time, stock prices are climbing, with Toyota
Motor Corp. at a more than two-year high, as a weaker yen and
prospects for central-bank easing brighten the outlook for
exporters. Such improvements may cause concern for some of
Japan’s Asian neighbors.  “ South Korea  is one of the countries most vulnerable to
the weak yen policy as many export items are in direct
competition, such as cars and electronic goods,” said Lee Sang Jae, a Seoul-based economist at Hyundai Securities Co. “Japan
will try whatever it can to stop the deflation and to weaken the
yen for export growth.”  Shirakawa’s Caution  After a Dec. 28 call with U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy
F. Geithner , Aso said he had told Geithner that the yen was
making some corrections from one-sided moves and Aso would keep
monitoring changes in the currency.  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa, whose five-year
term ends in April, has rejected suggestions that the bank buy
foreign bonds and called for respect for the BOJ’s independence.
Such a policy would amount to currency intervention, which is
the responsibility of the finance minister, he says.  At the same time, the Nikkei newspaper on Dec. 29 cited
Shirakawa as saying that central bank and government must work
together to overcome deflation. Abe is pressing for the Bank of
Japan to adopt a 2 percent inflation target, compared with a
current goal of 1 percent. Consumer prices excluding fresh food
fell 0.1 percent in November from a year earlier, showing the
central bank is struggling to fulfil even the lesser ambition.  The LDP proposed in its campaign manifesto establishing a
joint BOJ, Ministry of Finance and private sector fund to buy
foreign bonds. Takatoshi Ito, a former finance ministry official
and a possible contender to become central-bank governor, said
in a Dec. 6 interview that the BOJ “can and should buy foreign
bonds,” adding that such a move is possible if the finance
minister publicly declares support for it.  In a note this month,  Australia  and New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. said that foreign bond purchases are contrary to the
legislation governing the BOJ. At the same time, it’s possible
that the government may cajole the central bank into putting
money into a proposed private-public vehicle for investment in
foreign asssets, the lender said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  