-- Reid, Smith Are Among Seven NFL Coaches Fired as Jets Keep Ryan
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-01-01T05:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/jets-oust-general-manager-reid-fired-as-nfl-teams-make-changes.html
Andy Reid  of the  Philadelphia Eagles 
and Lovie Smith of the  Chicago Bears  were among seven of the
National Football League’s 32 head coaches to get fired a day
after the conclusion of the regular season.  Mike Tannenbaum of the New York Jets was among five general
managers who lost their jobs yesterday.  The  San Diego  Chargers fired coach Norv Turner and GM A.J.
Smith; the Arizona Cardinals released coach Ken Whisenhunt and
GM Rod Graves; the  Cleveland Browns  parted with GM Tom Heckert
and coach Pat Shurmur; Kansas City Chiefs coach Romeo Crennel
and Buffalo Bills coach Chan Gailey both were let go; and the
Jacksonville Jaguars dismissed GM  Gene Smith .  Last season, seven coaches lost their jobs, though not in
the same day. Three were fired during the season, two the day
after it ended and two more in the ensuing weeks.  Rex Ryan will remain the Jets’ coach in 2013, team owner
 Woody Johnson  said, a day after New York completed a 6-10 season
with a 28-9 loss to the Bills. Johnson said he’ll begin an
immediate search to replace the 43-year-old Tannenbaum, who had
been the team’s general manager since 2006 after working as
assistant GM beginning in 2001.  “Mike devoted 15 years of service to the Jets, and I want
to thank him for his hard work and dedication,” Johnson said.
“Although he helped guide us to two consecutive AFC
championship games, we are not where we want to be and a new
general manager will be critical to getting this team back on
the right track.”  The Jets reached the playoffs three times and never won a
division title in Tannenbaum’s seven years overseeing personnel.
Their regular-season record was 57-55 during that span.  Reid Fired  Reid, whose 14-year run with Philadelphia was the longest
of any active coach in the NFL, was let go after the Eagles
finished the season 4-12, capped by a 42-7 loss to the New York
Giants two days ago. He steps down with a 130-93-1 record.  Eagles owner  Jeffrey Lurie  spoke to the franchise staff
yesterday, giving Reid a game ball to commemorate his role as
the coach with the most victories in team history. After
applause, Reid said his tenure was “the greatest 14 years of my
life.”  “Sometimes change is good and I know Jeffrey does nothing
that isn’t best for the organization, so I know that the next
guy that comes in will be phenomenal,” Reid said. “The
ultimate goal is the  Super Bowl . Everybody in this room, I wish
you a big ring on that finger in the near the future.”  The 54-year-old Reid led the Eagles to successive National
Football Conference championships from the 2001 to 2004 seasons,
and again after the 2008 campaign. Philadelphia beat the  Atlanta
Falcons  to reach the February 2005 Super Bowl, falling 24-21 to
the  New England Patriots .  Bears’ Move  Lovie Smith  had been the Bears’ coach since 2004, leading
the team to three division titles, a Super Bowl appearance after
the 2006 season and an 81-63 record.  Chicago began the season 7-1 and finished at 10-6. The
Bears beat the Detroit Lions 26-24 two days ago and would have
qualified for the playoffs had the Minnesota Vikings not topped
the  Green Bay Packers .  The firing of the Chargers’ Turner and Smith following a
7-9 season was announced by team President Dean Spanos.  “Both Norv and A.J. are consummate NFL professionals, and
they understand that in this league, the bottom line is
winning,” Spanos said in a statement. “My only goal is the
Super Bowl, and that is why I have decided to move in a new
direction with both our head coach and general manager
positions.”  Chargers’ Season  Turner, 60, went 56-40 in six years leading the Chargers,
who missed the playoffs the last three seasons after going 13-3
in 2009. San Diego lost to the New England Patriots in the
conference championship game during his first season. Smith had
been the team’s GM since 2003.  Whisenhunt, 50, departs Arizona with a 45-51 record in six
years with the team. His tenure included the Cardinals’ first
Super Bowl appearance, a 27-23 loss to the Pittsburgh Steelers
during the 2008 season.  Arizona won its first four games this season and then
dropped 11 of its final 12, finishing 5-11 with a defeat two
days ago to the San Francisco 49ers. It was the third straight
year the Cardinals failed to qualify for the playoffs.  Graves led the Cardinals’ personnel department since 2003
and was with the team for 16 years.  The Browns, who finished the season with a 24-10 loss to
the Pittsburgh Steelers to fall to 5-11, were 9-23 in two years
under the 47-year-old Shurmur. Heckert had been Cleveland’s GM
since 2010 and the team hasn’t made the playoffs since the 2002
season.  “We felt that these moves were in the best interests of
the Cleveland Browns and our future,” Jimmy Haslam, who became
majority owner of the Browns in October, said in a statement.  Full Season  Crennel, 65, went 2-14 with the Chiefs in his only full
season leading the team after going 2-1 on an interim basis in
2011.  Clark Hunt, the Chiefs’ chairman, said today that “no
final determination has been made” on keeping GM Scott Pioli.  “I am embarrassed by the poor product we gave our fans
this season, and I believe we have no choice but to move the
franchise in a different direction,” Hunt said in a statement.
“The entire football operation will remain under review.”  Crennel was 24-40 with the Cleveland Browns from 2005 to
2008.  The 60-year-old Gailey, whose staff also was let go, led
the team to successive 6-10 finishes after 4-12 in his first
season. Buffalo hasn’t made the playoffs since the 1999 season.  “This will be the first place that’s ever fired me that
I’ll pull for,” Gailey, who coached the  Dallas Cowboys  in
1998-99, assisted on several other NFL teams and was a college
coach, said in a statement. “We didn’t get the job done.”  Contract Honored  The Jaguars will honor the two years left on the contract
of Smith, who had been the team’s GM for the past four seasons.  Jacksonville tied the Kansas City Chiefs for the NFL’s
worst record at 2-14, scored the fewest points (15.9) per game
and had the league’s lowest average rushing yards of 85.6 per
game. It was the team’s worst record since the franchise began
in 1996.  Jaguars owner  Shahid Khan  said in a statement that the team
“simply must do better for our fans.”  “Now it is time for the Jacksonville Jaguars to begin a
new chapter,” Khan, who assumed control of the team a year ago,
said in in a statement. “We’re not looking back. I’ve made it
clear from Day 1 that we pledge nothing less than to deliver the
first Super Bowl championship to Jacksonville.”  A day after the 2011 regular season ended the St. Louis
Rams’  Steve Spagnuolo  and Tampa Bay Buccaneers’ Raheem Morris
were fired. The Indianapolis Colts later released  Jim Caldwell 
and  Oakland Raiders  parted with  Hue Jackson , while the
Jacksonville Jaguars’ Jack Del Rio, the Miami Dolphins’  Tony Sparano  and the Kansas City Chiefs’ Todd Haley were fired during
the season.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  