-- Judge Seeks Bond Called High in Samsung-Apple Phone Case
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2013-01-01T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/judge-seeks-bond-called-high-in-samsung-apple-phone-case.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  should post a
bond equal to 88 percent of the value of smartphones found to
infringe  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  patents if it loses a U.S. trade ruling and
wants to keep selling the devices, a judge said.  U.S. International Trade Commission Judge Thomas Pender in
October found that more than a dozen models of Samsung mobile
phones, media players and tablet computers infringed patents on
the iPhone and other Apple products.  Pender, in a recommendation posted Dec. 28 on the agency’s
website, said Samsung should face a ban on imports of the
infringing products. Pender also specified bonds Samsung is to
post if the full commission accepts his decision to ban imports
and the company wants to keep selling the products during a 60-
day period when President  Barack Obama  could overturn the ban.  “That’s a high rate,” Christopher Marlett, founder of MDB
Capital, an intellectual-property consultancy, said in an
interview. “With those economics, it will be difficult for
Samsung to decide whether to sell the products at all.”  The six-member trade commission is to finish its
investigation by Feb. 25.  Samsung could try to avoid the bonds by changing product
designs to address the dispute, and Apple could ask the
commission to decide whether the new equipment still infringes
its patents, Rodney Sweetland III, a lawyer with Duane Morris
LLP in Washington who specializes in ITC cases, said in an
interview.  Even if the commission were to order an import ban, it
would probably give Samsung time to work around the patents to
ensure there is no disruption to consumers and carriers,
Sweetland said.  Global Battle  Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung is battling Apple
worldwide over smartphone and tablet-computer technology.
Samsung lost a $1 billion jury verdict in August against Apple,
based in Cupertino,  California .  At stake is a market that Bloomberg Industries said grew 62
percent last year to $219 billion. Samsung has more than a
quarter of global mobile-phone sales compared with Apple’s 17
percent, though the iPhone has 34 percent of the U.S. market to
Samsung’s 18 percent, according to market researcher  ComScore
Inc. (SCOR)   Among tablet computers, Apple had about 70 percent of the
market in the second quarter, compared with 9.2 percent for
Samsung and 4.2 percent for  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , according to IHS
ISuppli.  Rounded Corners  The products involved in the ITC case include models of the
Galaxy Tab tablet, and the Galaxy Nexus and Galaxy S II
smartphones. Not included are some popular products including
the Galaxy S III smartphone and Galaxy Note II pen-equipped
phone.  Samsung “will continue to take all appropriate measures to
ensure the availability of our innovative products for American
consumers,” Adam Yates, a company spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  “We remain confident that the full commission will
ultimately reach a final determination that affirms our
position,” Yates said. “Patent law must not be manipulated to
give one company a monopoly over rectangles with rounded
corners, or technology that is being improved every day by
Samsung and other companies.”  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Pender, in his Dec. 28 order, said Samsung should pay bonds
of 32.5 percent on sales of media players and 37.6 percent for
tablet computers. Samsung argued for lower payments based on a
royalty rate of 4.9 percent, Pender said in his order. The judge
accepted Apple’s suggested rates.  Four Patents  In his Oct. 24 decision, Pender found Samsung had violated
four patents including one for design of the front face of the
iPhone and one for touch-screen technology co-invented by Apple
co-founder Steve Jobs.  The case is one of more than three dozen between the makers
of about half of the world’s smartphones.  The two companies have run up hundreds of millions of
dollars in legal bills in their patent disputes. Apple’s lawyers
have argued it revolutionized the smartphone industry when it
introduced the iPhone in 2007, only to see copycats from Samsung
and other companies making handsets that run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android operating system.  The trade commission has twice before forced companies to
alter foreign-made smartphones if they wanted to keep selling
them in the U.S.  HTC Corp. (2498)  phones were held up at the border in
May after Apple won a trade case. Google’s Motorola Mobility
unit was ordered to remove a feature to coordinate schedules
from its phones after it was found to infringe a  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
patent.  The Apple case against Samsung is In the Matter of
Electronic Digital Media Devices, 337-796, and Samsung’s case is
In the Matter of Electronic Devices, Including Wireless
Communication Devices, Portable Music and Data Processing
Devices, and Tablet Computers, 337-794, both U.S. International
Trade Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net  or
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  