-- Kingfisher Air License to Lapse After Failing to Show Funds
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-12-31T10:50:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/kingfisher-air-license-to-lapse-after-failing-to-show-funds-1-.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) ’s operating
license will lapse tonight, after the grounded Indian carrier
failed to convince authorities it has enough funds to restart
operations following five straight years of losses.  The carrier can seek to renew the license within two years,
an aviation ministry official, who declined to be identified
citing rules, said. A revival plan the airline submitted to the
nation’s aviation regulator last week wasn’t backed by details
of funding, Civil Aviation Minister Ajit Singh said Dec. 26.  Kingfisher, controlled by liquor tycoon  Vijay Mallya , has
been seeking cash for more than two years and said it’s in talks
with possible investors, including Etihad Airways PJSC. The
airline may start on a smaller scale with funds provided by its
parent UB Group before selling a stake to an investor, according
to Kapil Kaul of the CAPA Centre for Aviation.  “There would be a gradual resumption, which could be more
determined and focused on a very realistic business scale,”
Kaul, the head of CAPA’s Indian unit, said. “Once they start,
they could build a 20-plane operation and then the second stage
of capitalization will come from an investor.”  Shares Decline  Shares of Kingfisher fell 2.3 percent to 14.90 rupees at
close of trading in Mumbai. The stock declined 29 percent this
year, after plunging 68 percent in 2011.  Kingfisher’s permit, issued in August 2003, is valid until
today, according to the Directorate General of Civil Aviation’s
 website.  The carrier is yet to provide information on funding
sought by the regulator, the ministry official said.  Kingfisher spokesman Prakash Mirpuri didn’t respond to an
e-mail and a call to his mobile phone seeking comment. The plan
presented to the DGCA includes the money needed to support the
revival, Mirpuri said Dec. 26. The company will show the
availability of funds as soon as the regulator is satisfied with
the proposal, he said.  In September, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government
eased airline ownership rules allowing overseas carriers to own
as much as 49 percent in local operators. Jet Airways ( India )
Ltd., the nation’s largest listed carrier, is also said to be in
talks with Etihad for a stake sale.  The aviation regulator suspended Kingfisher’s permit in
October following flight disruptions caused by strikes triggered
by unpaid wages. Employees later agreed to resume work after
management pledged to pay salaries.  Kingfisher, which was No. 2 in India by market share last
year, has piled up  debt  of 85 billion rupees ($1.6 billion). It
pared more than two-thirds of its flights and returned planes to
lessors before halting operations in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  