-- Knight Capital Group Sued Over $3.75-a-Share Getco Bid
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-12-31T19:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/knight-capital-group-sued-over-3-75-a-share-getco-bid-1-.html
Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) , the
trading firm that closely avoided bankruptcy this year after
computer errors, was sued by an investor who contends the stock
is undervalued in a $3.75-a-share takeover by Getco LLC.  Knight directors are duty-bound to seek out the best price
for company shares and “locked-up” the Getco deal in violation
of those duties, shareholder Ann Jimenez McMillan said in a
Delaware Chancery Court complaint made public today.  The price is “unfair and grossly inadequate,” and will
deny investors “their right to share proportionately and
equitably in the true value of the company’s valuable and
profitable business, and future growth,” the plaintiff’s
lawyers said in court papers.  Chicago-based trader Getco agreed to buy Knight, based in
 Jersey City ,  New Jersey , earlier this month in a $1.4 billion
deal, beating rival suitor Virtu Financial LLC, according to
people familiar with the bidding.  Knight lost more than $450 million in August when
improperly installed software triggered unintended orders. Getco
and five other financial firms provided $400 million to help
Knight in exchange for convertible securities representing more
than 70 percent of its equity.  In the lawsuit, McMillan asks for class-action, or group
status, on behalf of all outside stockholders, unspecified
damages, and an order to stop the deal under its present terms.  Knight spokeswomen Kara Fitzsimmons and Nicole Weiss didn’t
immediately reply to voice and e-mail messages seeking comment
on the lawsuit.  Knight rose 2 cents to $3.51 in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading at 1:35 p.m.  The case is McMillan v. Knight Capital Group, CA8163,
Delaware Chancery Court, (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  