-- Kushner Said to Sell Observer Building for $95 Million
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-12-31T21:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/kushner-said-to-sell-observer-building-for-95-million.html
Jared Kushner sold the Manhattan
office building that houses his  New York  Observer newspaper to
GreenOak Real Estate LP for $95 million, according to two people
with knowledge of the transaction.  The sale was completed on Dec. 28, said the people, who
asked not to be named because the deal was private. The building
at 321 W. 44th St. near Times Square is about 85 percent
occupied, one of the people said.  An entity controlled by the Kushner family bought the
building for $85 million in 2007, near the peak of the real
estate  market . Jared Kushner, the president and chief executive
officer of Kushner Cos., the prior year purchased the New York
Observer, a weekly newspaper that focuses on the city’s
political, media and real estate elite.  The newspaper, one of the largest tenants in 321 W. 44th
St., has a five-year lease, with an option to terminate after
one year, one of the people familiar with the deal said. Kushner
may either buy a new building and house the publication there,
or move it into a property his family already owns, the person
said.  Matthew Hiltzik , a Kushner spokesman, declined to comment
on the sale, which was reported earlier today by the New York
Post. Andrew Yoon, chief operating officer of GreenOak, also
declined to comment.  GreenOak, the investment firm started by former leaders of
Morgan Stanley’s property fund unit, acquired the building with
East End Capital, which holds a minority stake. The two firms
previously teamed to buy a 15-floor office building at 256 W.
38th St. in New York’s garment district for about $30 million.  GreenOak was founded in 2010 by Sonny Kalsi, Fred Schmidt
and John Carrafiell, who ran Wall Street’s largest real estate
investing group at Morgan Stanley until the market crashed.
GreenOak expects most of its deals to be for office buildings,
followed by retail properties and hotels, according to marketing
materials. In the U.S., it will concentrate on large coastal
cities such as New York,  Boston  and  Los Angeles .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  