-- Natural Gas Futures Fall on Forecasts for Milder U.S. Weather
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-12-31T20:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/natural-gas-futures-fall-on-forecasts-for-milder-u-s-weather.html
Natural gas fell in New York as the
outlook for mild January weather signaled lower demand and
reduced the first annual gain in five years.  Futures dropped 3.4 percent as MDA Weather Services in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland , predicted above-normal temperatures in
the eastern U.S. over the next six to 14 days. Gas snapped a
four-year losing streak as record demand from  power plants 
during an unusually hot summer helped shrink an  inventory glut .  “In the first half of January, the weather on the Eastern
Seaboard doesn’t look too threatening,”  Stephen Schork ,
president of Schork Group Inc., a consulting group in Villanova,
 Pennsylvania , said. “The surplus is going to be expanding for
the next couple of weeks. As soon as we work through the current
overhang, we will start to see some semblance of firmness in the
markets.”  Natural gas for February delivery dropped 11.8 cents to
settle at $3.351 per million British thermal units on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . The futures climbed 12 percent in 2012
to post their first annual gain since 2007. Prices increased 0.9
percent from October through December, making it the third
straight quarterly gain.  Futures trading volume was 54 percent below the 100-day
average at 2:55 p.m. The market will be closed tomorrow in
observance of New Year’s Day.  Gas has staged a sharp turnaround since plunging to a 10-
year low of $1.902 in April after the fourth-warmest U.S. winter
on record  crimped demand  and a surplus swelled to a six-year
high. Electricity generators responded to the low prices by
burning a record amount of fuel as it became cheaper than coal
in most regions, Energy Department data show.  $3 Gas  Prices may head back toward $3 in the coming weeks amid
milder weather and a sell-off that typically takes place in
January and February based on historical seasonal trends, Schork
said. He expects prices to rally again toward the end of March.  The low temperature in  Chicago  on Jan. 8 may be 28 degrees
Fahrenheit (minus 2 Celsius), 11 above normal, and  New York
City ’s low may be 10 above the usual reading at 37 degrees,
according to AccuWeather Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania.  About 50 percent of U.S households use gas for heating,
Energy Department data show.  “It’s expected to be a lot hotter in the next two to three
weeks,” said Victor Zevallos, an energy trader at INTL Hencorp
Futures LLC in Miami. Weekly inventory “withdrawals are going
to be smaller and that will make prices go down,” he said.  2012 High  Futures have plummeted 15 percent since rising to a one-
year intraday high of $3.933 on Nov. 23 on below-average weekly
stockpile declines due to mild weather.  This year will probably overtake 1998 as the hottest on
record in the U.S., according to the  National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration . The first 11 months were the warmest
start to any year in the contiguous 48 states since the nation
began keeping records in 1895, NOAA’s Climatic Data Center  said 
Dec. 6.  U.S.  gas inventories  totaled 3.652 trillion cubic feet in
the week ended Dec. 21, a record high for this time of the year,
the department said last week. Stockpiles had reached an all-
time high of 3.929 trillion during the week ended Nov. 2.  A  surplus  widened to 12.8 percent above the five-year
average for the seven-day period from 4.6 percent at the end of
November. The surplus had risen to 61 percent at the end of
March.  Speculative Bets  Money managers cut U.S. natural gas bets on to the lowest
level since April given the outlook for mild weather mid-
January, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Dec. 28 Commitments of Traders report.  Net-long bets on four gas contracts, or  wagers  on rising
prices, fell by 9,566 futures equivalent, or 13 percent, to
63,061 in the week ended Dec. 24, CFTC data show.  The net position includes an index of four contracts
adjusted to futures equivalents: Nymex natural gas futures,
Nymex  Henry Hub  Swap Futures, Nymex ClearPort Henry Hub
Penultimate Swaps and the ICE Futures U.S. Henry Hub contract.
Henry Hub, in Erath,  Louisiana , is the delivery point for the
benchmark New York futures.  The Energy Department expects spot Henry Hub prices to
average $3.68 in 2013, up 32 percent from 2012, amid lower
production growth, according to its Dec. 11  Short-Term Energy
Outlook .  Total Production  Total U.S. marketed gas production will average 69.59
billion cubic feet a day next year, up 0.5 percent from a daily
record 69.22 billion in 2012, the monthly report said.  Output rose 4.5 percent this year as drilling technologies,
such as hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, made it more economic
to extract gas from shale deposits such as the Marcellus in the
Northeast. The U.S. produced 83 percent of its energy in the
first nine months of the year, on track to be the highest level
since 1991, department data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  