-- NFL Players’ Bid to Reopen Revenue Suit Rejected
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B e t h   H a w k i n s
-- 2012-12-31T19:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/nfl-players-bid-to-reopen-revenue-suit-rejected.html
A federal judge rejected a bid by
National Football League players to reopen a 2011 settlement of
a lawsuit over revenue.  The National Football League Players Association claimed
the league hid a $123 million-per-club salary cap for the 2010
season. The players sought $3 billion in damages, saying owners
violated an earlier agreement requiring uncapped salaries that
season.  U.S. District Judge David S. Doty in  Minneapolis  today
rejected the claim, finding that the earlier agreement, reached
in 2006, had expired and the players had waived such claims
through their 2011 collective-bargaining agreement. The 2011
accord, settling a labor dispute, included a stipulation of
dismissal of any claims, pending or not, Doty said.  Because the stipulation of dismissal was executed after the
2006 agreement expired, “the court is without jurisdiction to
enforce” it, Doty said. “The NFLPA released the claims it
attempts to assert in the underlying action.”  The players will consider “any and all other options in
light of this decision,” George Atallah, an NFLPA spokesman,
said in an e-mail today. “We respect the judge’s order, but it
does not mean that the owners didn’t collude.”  The NFL team owners colluded on salaries for the 2010
season, and the players were unaware of this when the
collective-bargaining agreement was reached in August 2011,
Jeffrey Kessler, a lawyer for the players, said in a Sept. 6
hearing before Doty.  ‘Desperate Time’  “It never occurred to us that there was collusion over a
salary cap,” Kessler said at the September hearing. “We would
have asserted that claim at that desperate time for the players,
had we known about it.”  “There was no secret salary cap,” Gregg Levy, a lawyer
for the league with Covington & Burling, said at that hearing.
“The union agreed to give up that claim in exchange for a new
agreement.”  The broader lawsuit was brought by the late Philadelphia
Eagles Hall of Famer Reggie White. The suit initially resulted
in a 1992 settlement and later in the 2011 settlement, which
headed off a threatened lockout.  The case is White v. National Football League, 92-cv-00906,
U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota (Minneapolis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Hawkins in Minneapolis at  Hawkins@visi.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  