-- Nissan’s Ghosn Calls on Abe to Weaken Yen, Mend China Ties
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2012-12-31T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/nissan-s-ghosn-calls-on-abe-to-weaken-yen-mend-china-ties.html
Don’t count  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) 
President  Carlos Ghosn  among those impressed with new Japanese
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s ability to weaken the yen against
all major global currencies.  “We are way long from what I consider a neutral
territory” of about 100 yen to the dollar, the Brazilian-born
president of  Japan ’s second-largest automaker told reporters
during a year-end briefing at Nissan’s headquarters in Yokohama,
Japan. “Please bring it back to the neutral territory so that
we can do our job without a handicap.”  Ghosn’s  exchange-rate  dissatisfaction, echoed by  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  President  Akio Toyoda , underscores the frustrations
of manufacturers in a country where the yen surged almost 40
percent over four years to a postwar high in 2011. While pledges
of weakening the currency and stoking inflation helped Abe and
his party win a landslide victory in Japan’s mid-December
elections, currency forecasters predict the yen may strengthen
from current levels.  The yen has tumbled more than 10 percent this year,
including a 4 percent drop in the past month, making it the
worst performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Prior to 2012, it had been the best-performing major
currency for three of the preceding four years, undermining
Japanese automakers’ ability to compete against Detroit-based
 General Motors Co. (GM) , Germany’s  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and South Korea’s
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)   Shifting Production  Toyoda, who heads Japan’s largest automaker, said at a
separate year-end briefing last month that compared with decades
ago, the yen has more than quadrupled.  The exchange rate is at a level that is “beyond what
companies can cope with” and continues to hurt Japanese
manufacturers, Toyoda said on Dec. 20, speaking as chairman of
the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association.  Ghosn, who made his comments before Abe’s swearing in as
premier, has led Japanese automakers in moving production
outside Japan in the past years to counter the yen’s strength.
Nissan made three in four vehicles outside Japan, compared with
about half for Toyota, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Every one-yen move against the dollar will have 20 billion
yen ($232 million) and 35 billion yen impact on Nissan and
Toyota’s annual operating profits, respectively, according to
the companies.  Regarding  China , where a territorial dispute with Japan led
to a consumer backlash that hurt sales of Japanese brands in the
world’s biggest auto market, Ghosn said the company will
continue monitor to assess how long the slump persists.  China Risks  Nissan, which announced in June that it will invest 5
billion  yuan  ($803 million) to build a new plant in Dalian,
northeast China, doesn’t see risks to current and planned
capacity, Ghosn said. The country accounted for about a quarter
of its worldwide sales in 2011.  “If this turmoil is going to have a long term impact on
Chinese consumers shying away from Japanese brands, obviously we
will have to reflect it in our long-term plans,” he said.  Nissan will be “watching very carefully the first few
months of each government” in Japan and China, before making
decisions on further investments in China, Ghosn said.  The automaker’s sales have fallen every month in China
since September, when large-scale anti-Japan protests broke up
and consumers shunned Japanese products over the disputed islets
known as Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese.  ‘Peaceful Path’  “Japanese carmakers may not have to change their
strategies in China immediately,” said  Satoru Takada , a Tokyo-
based auto analyst at Toward the Infinite World Inc. “But they
are approaching closer and closer to the timing that they will
have to re-examine the plans.”  Abe, who was sworn in as prime minister on Dec. 26, also
campaigned by pledging to defend Japanese territory and waters.
China hopes Japan will stick to its “path of peaceful
development and play a positive role in maintaining peace in
 Asia ,” Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told a
briefing in Beijing Dec. 26.  Ghosn said he expects 2013 to be another record year for
the global  auto industry , with total sales rising 3 to 4 percent
to 82 million to 83 million vehicles.  Demand will mainly come from China, the U.S.,  Russia ,
India,  Brazil , the  Middle East  and Southeast Asia, while Europe
will extend declines and Japan is “very likely to contract” if
the government doesn’t intervene to boost consumption, he said.  Toyoda said he hopes bilateral ties between Japan and China
normalize as soon as possible to prevent further impact on auto
sales.  “Next year, I want it to be a peaceful year where nothing
goes wrong,” said Toyoda. “A year where we can go to work
every day, build every day, and sell every day. That’s it.”  Ghosn said Nissan remains committed to electric vehicle
technology even as the sales of EVs fall short of the company’s
target in 2012. The maker of the battery-powered Leaf vehicle
said last month that it plans to introduce or refresh 15 hybrid
models by March 2017.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  