-- NSGB Jumps on Bets Bank to Benefit as Pound Weakens: Cairo Mover
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2012-12-31T14:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/nsgb-jumps-on-bets-bank-to-benefit-as-pound-weakens-cairo-mover.html
National Societe Generale Bank (NSGB)  rose
the most in more than two weeks on bets shareholders will
benefit from the Egyptian pound’s depreciation as its parent
sells a majority stake to  Qatar National Bank SAQ. (QNBK)   Shares of NSGB advanced 3.3 percent, the most since
December 12, to 35.21 Egyptian pounds at the close in Cairo,
valuing  Egypt ’s second-biggest publicly traded lender at 15.6
billion pounds ($2.5 billion). Doha-based QNB said earlier this
month it will pay  France ’s Societe Generale SA $1.97 billion for
77 percent of NSGB. The transaction will probably close in the
first half, Paris-based SocGen said.  While the two banks reached an agreement on the “nominal
value” of the transaction, the tender offer price for the
pound-denominated shares will be set “based on the foreign
 exchange rate  prior to the sale’s execution,” said Mohamed Radwan, head of international sales at Cairo-based investment
bank Pharos Holding. QNB has also said it plans to bid for the
remaining shares that SocGen doesn’t own in compliance with
Egyptian regulation.  The Egyptian pound, subject to a managed float, weakened to
a record low as the central bank started selling dollars in
auctions to restrict demand for the currency after foreign
reserves plunged almost 60 percent since last year’s uprising.
The currency weakened 2.8 percent today to 6.3639 a dollar, 
according to central bank data on Bloomberg.  Maridive Soars  Two analysts  recommend investors buy the shares of NSGB,
while five have a hold rating on the stock and eight say sell,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dollar-denominated stocks have also gained.  Egyptian
Kuwaiti Holding Co. (EKHO) , a Cairo-based private equity firm, rallied
4.1 percent to $1.28, the highest level since Oct. 29. Offshore
services company  Maridive & Oil Services (MOIL)  rose 3.6 percent to
$1.16, the highest close since Sept. 30.  Other stocks that stand to gain from the pound’s
depreciation against the dollar are  Orascom Construction
Industries (OCIC) ,  Egyptian Financial Group-Hermes Holding (HRHO) ,  Orascom
Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE)  and  Orascom Telecom Media and Technology
Holding SAE,  Radwan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net  