-- Pakistan Bus Bomb Kills 20 Shiites on Pilgrimage to Iran Sites
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-12-31T06:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/pakistan-bus-bomb-kills-20-shiites-on-pilgrimage-to-iran-sites.html
Pakistan  ordered its military to
airlift home the bodies of at least 20 Shiite Muslims killed in
the country’s southwest, the latest attack on the minority sect
that has been repeatedly targeted by Sunni extremists.  A car bomb yesterday struck a convoy of three buses bound
for Shiite holy sites in neighboring  Iran . The attack in the
Mastung district of Baluchistan province triggered a fire in one
of the vehicles, state-run Pakistan Television reported.  Prime Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf condemned the attack and
asked the army to fly the remains of the victims from the site
of the incident, which took place about 30 kilometers (18 miles)
south of Quetta, the capital of Baluchistan.  Attacks on Shiites are common in Pakistan, where the
community accounts for about 15 percent of the country’s 200
million people. This year, militants linked to Pakistan’s
Taliban movement have targeted Shiites from the ethnic Hazara
group. At least 320 Shiites died in targeted attacks in 2012 in
Pakistan, according to New York-based  Human Rights Watch . Over
100 were killed in Baluchistan, most of them Hazara, it said.  Pakistani officials have blamed Sunni guerrillas of the
Sipah-e-Sahaba movement and allied militant groups for the
sectarian killings. The attacks come as Pakistan’s army battles
Taliban fighters in the northwestern tribal region bordering
 Afghanistan .  In the latest violence there, Taliban killed 21 security
personnel kidnapped last week from their posts near the city of
Peshawar, according to a statement from President Asif Ali Zardari’s office.  Airport Strike  The president has “strongly condemned the gruesome”
killings of members of a tribal police force, his office said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday. Pakistan’s Taliban wants to
overthrow the country’s elected government and regularly attacks
security and civilian targets.  Peshawar  is a gateway to the volatile tribal region where
foreign and local militant groups have sanctuaries they use as a
base to also attack U.S.-led forces in Afghanistan. Pakistani
forces thwarted a strike on Peshawar’s airport on Dec. 16,
killing 10 militants armed with rockets, suicide jackets and
hand grenades, according to the military.  About a third of the 3,879 people killed in militant
violence in Pakistan in 2012 were civilians, the Conflict
Monitoring Center, a group headed by retired Pakistan army
personnel, said in its annual report today. Of those killed, 589
were members of the security forces. Militant groups have
carried out 400 attacks this year, compared with 246 in 2011,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  