-- Pentagon’s 800,000 Civilians Face Furlough Warnings Soon
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-12-31T21:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/pentagon-s-800-000-civilians-face-furlough-warnings-soon.html
The Defense Department is preparing
to notify its 800,000 civilian employees that some of them may
have to take unpaid leave next year if lawmakers can’t agree on
a budget deal, according to a U.S. defense official.  While the notification would go out to all the Pentagon’s
civilian workers, only a portion of them would be likely to face
eventual furloughs under the automatic spending cuts known as
sequestration, said the official, who asked not to be identified
discussing personnel plans.  More than $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts
are set to start taking effect this week unless lawmakers can
agree on an alternate deficit-reduction plan. The potential
effect on civilian defense workers gained attention yesterday,
when  Senator Lindsey Graham  said Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
told him he’d have to send out “layoff notices” that would
amount to “shooting the Defense Department in the head.”  Panetta “is worried to death that if we don’t fix the
sequestration, we’re going to destroy the finest military in the
world, at a time we need it the most,” Graham, a Republican
from  South Carolina , said on “Fox News Sunday.”  Gordon Adams , a professor at American University in
Washington who was an official in the White House budget office
during the Clinton administration, criticized Graham’s comments
as “hyperbole” over what would actually be some unpaid days
off.  “What the secretary probably said was that prudence would
lead him to notify Pentagon civil servants that there might be
some furloughs if sequester happened,” Adams said in an e-mail.
“If sequester is ‘fixed,’ it might be for none of them.
Certainly, none of them are layoffs.”  Troops Exempted  The White House budget office told Congress in July that it
would exempt military pay and benefits from sequestration,
meaning the administration won’t fire uniformed personnel or
reduce their pay or benefits.  Panetta has previously raised the prospect of eventual
furloughs for civilians.  “I do not expect our day-to-day operations to change
dramatically on or immediately after January 2, 2013, should
sequestration occur,” Panetta wrote in a Dec. 20 letter to
Pentagon officials. “Should we have to operate under reduced
funding levels for an extended period of time, we may have to
consider furloughs or other actions.”  As the Obama administration and congressional leaders
sought a last-minute deal to avert tax increases, the debate
returned today to the unresolved cuts in defense and domestic
spending.  Congressional Debate  Democrats in Congress want to delay the spending cuts for
two years, at a cost of $200 billion, though they haven’t
identified new savings to pay for it.  Republicans are insisting that any delay in sequestration
be offset with new savings, which remains among the biggest
sticking points in the final hours before the deadline.  The Pentagon’s top 10 contractors rose 1.2 percent at the
market’s close in  New York , compared with a 1.7 percent gain in
the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) , after President  Barack Obama 
said a deal was “within sight.”  About $500 billion would be cut from planned defense
spending over a decade under sequestration. Those automatic cuts
would come on top of $487 billion in defense reductions already
planned over 10 years.  The across-the-board cuts would slice into military weapons
programs and research funds. The Pentagon reductions may total
as much as $62.3 billion in fiscal 2013, or 12 percent of its
base budget, which excludes war funding. The government’s fiscal
year begins Oct. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in  Washington  at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  