-- Philadelphia Eagles Fire Andy Reid After 14 Seasons as Coach
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-12-31T16:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/philadelphia-eagles-fire-andy-reid-after-14-seasons-as-coach.html
Andy Reid  was fired by the
 Philadelphia Eagles  following an 4-12 season that included an
eight-game losing streak, ending a coaching tenure that produced
nine postseason berths yet never a  Super Bowl  title.  The dismissal capped a five-month stretch that began with
the death of Reid’s oldest son, Garrett, in his room at the
Eagles’ training camp from what was later declared a heroin
overdose.  Reid’s 14-year run with the Eagles was the longest of any
active coach in the  National Football League . His dismissal was
announced in a statement from  Jeffrey Lurie , the team’s owner.  Lurie, speaking in front of Eagles’ staff today, said
Reid’s discipline, obsession with being great and ability to
relate to players and other organization members wouldn’t be
forgotten.  “I can’t tell you the long-lasting and sustainable
qualities that Andy brought to this team, and we will have that
forever,” Lurie said at the meeting, which was broadcast on the
team’s website. “It’s time for a change, for Andy, for us.”  Lurie then gave Reid a game ball to commemorate his role as
the coach with the most victories in team history. After
applause, Reid said his tenure was “the greatest 14 years of my
life.”  “Sometimes change is good and I know Jeffrey does nothing
that isn’t best for the organization, so I know that the next
guy that comes in will be phenomenal,” Reid said. “The
ultimate goal is the Super Bowl. Everybody in this room, I wish
you a big ring on that finger in the near the future.”  NFC Championships  The 54-year-old Reid led the Eagles to successive National
Football Conference championships from the 2001 to 2004 seasons,
and again after the 2008 campaign. Philadelphia beat the Atlanta
Falcons to reach the February 2005 Super Bowl, falling 24-21 to
the  New England Patriots .  Reid replaced the fired Ray Rhodes in 1999, leading the
team to a 5-11 record after taking quarterback Donovan McNabb
with the first pick of that year’s draft, a selection that drew
boos from Eagles fans attending the event. The team went 59-21
the following five years, reaching the playoffs each season.  Reid’s teams won seven division titles, earned nine playoff
berths and had only two losing seasons through his first 13
years. After an 8-8 record in 2011, Lurie said it was the “most
disappointing season since I’ve owned the team,” and that the
franchise needed to improve in 2012 for Reid to keep his job.  Coaching Tree  Reid steps down with a 130-93-1 record. Several of his
assistants have gone on to NFL head-coaching jobs, including
 Brad Childress , Ron Rivera,  John Harbaugh ,  Steve Spagnuolo  and
Leslie Frasier.  After opening this season at 3-1, with wins over the  New
York  Giants and  Baltimore Ravens , the Eagles dropped their next
eight, including a 31-6 loss to the Washington Redskins and a
30-22 defeat to the Carolina Panthers on “Monday Night
Football.” The finished the season yesterday with a 42-7 loss
to the Giants.  They played the entire campaign without All-Pro defensive
tackle Jason Peters, who ruptured his Achilles’ tendon.
Quarterback  Michael Vick  sat out six games after suffering a
concussion in a Nov. 11 loss to the  Dallas Cowboys .  Juan Castillo, who was moved to defensive coordinator in
2011 after serving as the team’s offensive line coach from 1998
to 2010, was fired and replaced by secondary coach Todd Bowles
in October after the Eagles blew a 10-point fourth-quarter lead
against the Detroit Lions, falling to 3-3. In early December,
defensive line coach Jim Washburn was fired following the team’s
eighth straight defeat, a 38-33 loss to the Cowboys.  Son’s Death  Reid took a six-week leave from the team in 2007 after the
arrests of his sons, Garrett and Britt. Garrett Reid, who had
been working as a strength and conditioning coach for the Eagles
since his release from prison in 2009, was found dead in his
room at the team’s camp at Lehigh University in Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania, in August.  Bill Belichick , who joined the New England Patriots in
2000, has now led the same team longer than any active NFL head
coach.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  