-- Pimco’s Gross Sees Less Return, Stubborn Unemployment
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2012-12-31T23:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/pimco-s-gross-sees-less-return-stubborn-unemployment.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said he
expects stocks and bonds to return less than 5 percent in 2013
amid a sluggish economy as the effect of Federal Reserve
stimulus diminishes.  Gross’s comments, made in a special report on Bloomberg
Television, reaffirmed his December investment outlook that
“structural headwinds” may lower real economic growth below 2
percent in the U.S. and other developed nations. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index gained 16 percent this year as the Fed stoked
risk appetite by buying U.S. bonds in a strategy called
quantitative easing. The Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
Corporate and Government Index gained 5.2 percent.  “Ben Bernanke is not Rumpelstiltskin -- he can only spin
straw into gold for so long,” Newport Beach, California-based
Gross said of the Fed chairman in an interview on “America’s
Fiscal Debate” with  Erik Schatzker . “QE is having an impact,
but the impact is fading,” Gross said.  With globalization, technological and demographic changes
restricting growth, investors should seek returns from
commodities such as oil and gold, U.S. inflation-protected
bonds, high-quality municipal debt and non-dollar emerging
market stocks, Gross wrote in this month’s investment  outlook 
article on Dec. 4, reiterating earlier recommendations.  The firm’s  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  has gained 10.4 percent this
year, beating 95 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer
Allianz SE,  managed  $1.92 trillion as of Sept. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Schatzker in  New York  at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  