-- Pound Rises a Second Day Against Euro as U.K. Sentiment Improves
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-12-31T12:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/pound-rises-a-second-day-against-euro-as-u-k-sentiment-improves.html
The pound strengthened for a second
day against the euro after data showed U.K. executives’
confidence for 2013 improved this month, indicating the risk of
a triple-dip recession may be receding.  Gilts held their biggest weekly gain in a month as U.S.
lawmakers debated ways to prevent automatic spending cuts and
tax increases that risk triggering a recession. Yields on
British two-, five-, 10- and 30-year bonds fell to the lowest on
record this year as the deepening crisis in the euro-region and
the  Bank of England ’s asset-buying program boosted demand. The
pound is set for its fourth yearly advance against the euro, the
longest since the 17-nation currency’s introduction in 1999.  “I don’t buy into the euro-positive story and ultimately
sterling will be better placed against the euro,” said  Neil Mellor , a foreign-exchange strategist at  Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. (BK)  in  London . “You can’t look at any euro-zone country and
conclude that 2013 is going to be a positive year. Sterling is
one of the more difficult currencies to try and pin down. Our
working presumption is that it’s going to remain trapped
somewhere between the euro and the dollar.”  The pound appreciated 0.3 percent to 81.52 pence per euro
as of 12:15 p.m. London time, after gaining 0.5 percent on Dec.
28, the biggest increase since Dec. 6. It has gained 2.2 percent
against the common currency in 2012. Sterling was little changed
at $1.6171, having risen 4.1 percent this year.  Business Sentiment  Lloyds Banking Group Plc said in a report today an  index  of
business sentiment rose to 40 from 35 in November. A gauge
measuring the outlook for the economy increased to 20 from 17,
which Lloyds said is consistent with “broadly flat underlying
growth” at the end of this year.  A rising pound shows the challenges new Bank of England
Governor  Mark Carney , who takes over from  Mervyn King  in July,
will face as he tries to boost an economy weighed down by
recession in the euro region. Investors seeking a haven have
pushed the pound higher even as the central bank increased bond
 purchases  to 375 billion pounds, a move that usually debases a
currency.  The Bank of England decided to pause its program of so-
called quantitative easing in November, saying risks from the 
euro-area crisis had receded and inflation concerns persist.  The 10-year gilt yield was little changed at 1.82 percent,
after dropping six basis points, or 0.06 percentage points, last
week, the biggest decline since the period ended Nov. 30. The
1.75 percent bond due in September 2022 traded at 99.41. The
rate fell to 1.407 percent on July 23, the  lowest  since
Bloomberg started tracking the data in 1989.  ‘Capping Yields’  That yields have remained “near those record lows reflects
both that domestic monetary policy has been effective in capping
yields and that the euro crisis has been supportive too,” said
 Sam Hill , a fixed-income strategist at  RBC Capital Markets  in
London. “Heading into 2013 it is expected that low and stable
yields will continue to be an important part of the slow
recovery. If there is any threat to this status quo it wouldn’t
be too surprising to see expectations of more QE grow.”  The gilt market was scheduled to close at 12:15 p.m. in
London and will resume trading on Jan. 2.  Gilts returned 2.8 percent this year through Dec. 28,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds gained
4.5 percent and Treasuries earned 2.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  