-- Raw-Material Gauge Signaling Demand Pickup on Outlook for China
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-12-31T18:38:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/raw-material-gauge-signaling-demand-pickup-on-outlook-for-china.html
A  gauge  of raw-material prices
ranging from burlap to steel may point to improving global
growth amid signs of an industrial recovery in  China  and the
U.S., the biggest users of commodities.  The Journal of Commerce-Economic Cycle Research Institute
Industrial Smoothed  Price Index , which tracks the annual growth
rate of 18 commodities, rose today to its highest since
September. Nine components, including ethylene and red oak,
aren’t traded on U.S. exchanges and are less influenced by
investor sentiment.  A U.S. budget impasse and Europe’s recession sent the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodity prices down as
much as 11 percent since reaching a five-month high on Sept. 14.
Since then, government reports showed signs that the U.S.
housing market is recovering while Chinese manufacturing in
November expanded at the fastest pace in 19 months. The U.S. and
China are the two biggest commodities users. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. said this month that growth in  emerging markets  will boost
demand for raw materials and tighten supply.  “Chinese economic growth could give a real shot of
adrenaline to many commodities,” said Chad Morganlander, a
Florham Park, New Jersey-based fund manager at Stifel Nicolaus &
Co., which oversees about $130 billion of assets. “We’re
optimistic about growth on a global basis as well as a
resurgence in  commodities markets .”  China’s economy  may have rebounded after a seven-quarter
slowdown as the government boosted spending on infrastructure
and accelerated investment-project approvals. A  Purchasing
Managers ’ Index climbed to 51.5 in December, the highest since
May 2011, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said today. A
level above 50 indicates expansion.  Budget Talks  U.S. tax increases and spending cuts scheduled to start
tomorrow may still send the  U.S. economy  into a tailspin unless
lawmakers come to a budget agreement.  “There’s reason for caution” on economic growth
prospects, said Jonathan Guyer, the chief investment officer of
Longview Funds Management LLC in Columbia, Maryland, who helps
oversee about $19 million of assets.  Even so, there are signs that the global economy is
starting to improve, and measures including the JoC-ECRI index
often have “less noise, and reflect real demand,” Guyer said.  The JoC-ECRI tracks the ratio of price changes from a year
earlier. The index rose to 7 today, the highest since Sept. 20.
It averaged minus 3 last month and minus 6.6 percent this year.
The S&P GSCI was down about 0.1 percent this year through Dec.
28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  