-- RBA Rejuvenates Mortgage Bonds With Rate Cuts: Australia Credit
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-12-31T01:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/rba-rejuvenates-mortgage-bonds-with-rate-cuts-australia-credit.html
Australian lenders will boost sales
of residential mortgage-backed bonds by 12 percent in 2013,
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  predicts, as interest-rate cuts spur a
recovery in the world’s second-most costly housing market.  Issuance may reach as much as A$15 billion ($15.6 billion),
from A$13.4 billion this year, as yields extend declines, said
 David Goodman , head of global capital markets strategy worldwide
at the nation’s second-biggest bank. That contrasts with  Europe ,
where Barclays Plc estimates offerings will fall at least 10
percent. National Australia Bank Ltd. priced RMBS at 110 basis
points more than swaps this month, 30 basis points less than
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia  paid on similar debt in August.  Australia’s central bank has carried out the developed
world’s steepest rate  reductions  since October 2011, stoking
optimism of a revival in residential construction and forecasts
for rising prices. Home values may increase as much as 5 percent
next year, from less than 1 percent in the first 10 months of
2012, Australian Property Monitors forecast this month.  “The RBA is telling us that they want to re-engineer a
domestic housing and construction recovery, so with that
backdrop we’re pretty comfortable” about the underlying
collateral of RMBS, said Goodman. “We expect spreads will be
tighter.”  Demand Improves  The share of Australian home owners missing payments on
their mortgages dropped “significantly” in the third quarter
as borrowers benefited from interest-rate cuts and unemployment
remained low, according to  Fitch Ratings .  The proportion of home loan payments more than 30 days late
fell to 1.36 percent in the three months ended Sept. 30, from
1.54 percent in the previous quarter, the ratings company said
in a statement on Dec. 24.  Support from the government has proved unnecessary on five
RMBS sales since August, when AMP Bank Ltd. sold the first aid-
eligible notes without federal backing since March 2011,
according to  data  from the Australian Office of Financial
Management. The government agency has bought mortgage bonds
since 2008 under a A$20 billion initiative to spur competition
in the home loan market.  “We’ve supported the market and certainly preserved the
RMBS mechanism and I think we’ve achieved our aim in that
regard,” Rob Nicholl, chief executive officer of the AOFM, said
in a Dec. 18 interview. “If there are other investors around
and they’ll step in and take our place, then we see that as a
sign of a healthy market.”  Covered Bonds  RMBS offerings lagged in the first half of this year as the
four biggest Australian banks opted to use their loans as
collateral for covered bonds instead.  Commonwealth Bank, National  Australia  Bank, Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. and Westpac accounted for 24 percent
of RMBS sales this year, down from 53 percent in 2011, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Members Equity Bank Pty capitalized on this lack of supply
in September, paying a 135 basis-point spread to sell mortgage-
backed notes in its largest Australian-dollar deal since March
2011. National Australia Bank further cut costs this month,
pricing its largest portion of notes at the narrowest spread
seen since July 2011 for similar-maturity debt.  Australia’s banks, the biggest borrowers in domestic debt
markets, “are in a strong position to see off a slowdown in the
economy in 2013, based on their strengthened balance sheet and
solid profitability,” Fitch Ratings wrote in a Dec. 16 report.  Jobless Rate  The unemployment  rate  -- seen as one of the main threats to
the housing market -- unexpectedly dropped to 5.2 percent in
November and an extra 13,900 jobs were created, the statistics
bureau said this month. The nation’s economic growth will slow
to 2.7 percent in 2013 from 3.5 percent this year, according to
strategists’ forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. That remains more
robust than the 2.42 percent average growth predicted globally.  Slightly higher  house prices , increasing rental yields and
more building approvals suggest property investment may improve,
the  Reserve Bank  of Australia said after its latest interest-
rate cut. Lend Lease Group, the nation’s largest developer,
applied last month to build multimillion-dollar harborside
apartments in Sydney as part of a A$6 billion project.  Dwellings in Australia cost 6.7 times average annual income
as of the third quarter of 2011, the second-least affordable
behind  Hong Kong ’s, Illinois-based consulting company
Demographia said in a report in January.  Asset-Backed Notes  RMBS issuers face competition for investors’ attention from
providers of auto loans, financing for medical professionals and
consumer leases. Sales of notes backed by assets other than
mortgages swelled to a record A$5.1 billion this year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Investors recognize asset-backed securities tend to pay
their money back quicker, and the bonds generally offer a higher
margin than other structured debt, according to Ross Horsburgh,
head of treasury and commercial risk at FlexiGroup Ltd.  FlexiGroup, which  provides  finance on computers and
appliances, paid 150 basis points more than the bank bill swap
rate to sell ABS with a weighted average life of 1.32 years in
August, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Firstmac Ltd., a home-loan provider, offered investors 5
basis points less this month for mortgage-backed notes with an
average life more than twice as long, the data show.  FlexiGroup will consider bringing a deal to the market next
year if conditions remain right, Horsburgh said.  Extra Yield  “ABS will be attractive relative to RMBS given the spread
pick-up for shorter-dated paper,” said Raymond Lee, a Sydney-
based portfolio manager at Kapstream Capital, adding that the
notes also help investors diversify away from mortgages. “But I
don’t think it will damage demand as ABS deals are not as
abundant as RMBS, and are also much smaller.”  Investors are seeking higher-yielding debt as  interest
rates  on Australian financial notes fall to the lowest on
record, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The
rate has fallen 201 basis points this year to 4.30 percent as of
Dec. 28. Globally, lenders pay an average 2.48 percent, 231
basis points less than on Dec. 31, 2011, the indexes show.  Mortgage providers may look to take advantage of this
demand in 2013.  “RMBS still offers very good value,” according to Eva Zileli, a senior manager, secured funding, in group treasury at
National Australia Bank. “We would hope to come to the market
next year with another ABS deal and another RMBS.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  