-- RBC Leads Banks as Takeovers Hit a 5-Year High
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-12-31T13:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/rbc-leads-banks-as-takeovers-hit-a-5-year-high-corporate-canada.html
Royal Bank of Canada  was the top
investment-banking adviser on Canadian deals for the second
straight year as mergers surged to a five-year high, led by
energy.  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ’s BMO Capital Markets unit rose to the
second spot, while  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  was third, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD
Securities unit was fourth, while  Bank of America Corp .’s
Merrill Lynch unit was fifth. Bankers say they expect more
transactions next year.  “We are, based on what we see today, cautiously optimistic
that the level of activity for 2013 will be better than 2012,”
Goldman Sachs  Canada  Chief Executive Officer John P. Curtin Jr.
said in an interview from Toronto.  Canada’s economic stability, improvements in the  U.S.
economy  and a return of confidence to global markets may fuel
more takeovers in 2013. Mining and energy will drive deals next
year, while areas such as real estate will continue to be busy,
according to investment bankers.  Canadian companies were involved in 2,365 announced deals
valued at $216.9 billion in 2012, up 19 percent from $182.8
billion in 2011 and the highest year since 2007, according to
Bloomberg data. The figures and rankings are as of today and
subject to change as more deals are recorded.  Royal Bank’s  RBC Capital Markets  unit worked on 102
acquisitions valued at $69.6 billion in 2012, including advising
Nexen Inc. on its $15.1 billion sale to Cnooc Ltd. of  China  and
 Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s C$6.1 billion ($6.13 billion) offer
for Viterra Inc., according to Bloomberg data.  Cnooc-Nexen  “We were fortunate we were on the two largest deals,”
Peter Buzzi, co-head of mergers and acquisitions at RBC Capital
Markets, said in an interview in Toronto. “If you weren’t on
the Nexen deal it’s virtually impossible to be top of the league
tables.”  Canada’s largest transaction in 2012 was Cnooc’s bid for
Nexen, which received Canadian government approval on Dec. 7.
Glencore’s takeover of Viterra, Canada’s largest grain handler,
was the second-largest acquisition.  “Nexen was a long-standing relationship; we’ve done a lot
of work with the company over the years,” Buzzi, 52, said.
“The relationship we have with Glencore is more recent, and
it’s really a function of our growth outside Canada.”  Other large deals included the C$5.2 billion bid for
Calgary-based Progress Energy Resources Corp. by Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. of  Kuala Lumpur , which also received Canadian
government approval Dec. 7. BMO Capital Markets advised
Progress, helping the Toronto-based firm land a top-three
standing for a second year with 57 deals valued at $47.7
billion.  BMO Evolution  “This is an evolution for us,” Darryl White, BMO Capital
Markets’ head of global investment and corporate banking, said
in an interview from Toronto. “If you were to go back five or
10 years, in all candor, you’d find that our franchise was
underrepresented as far as the largest deals were concerned.”  Goldman Sachs, which ranked fifth last year, reclaimed a
top-three spot for the first time since topping Canadian
rankings in 2010. The New York-based firm worked on 23 deals
valued at $46.8 billion, advising companies including Calgary-
based Nexen, CGI Group Inc. and  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)   “On balance we are pleased with our improved positioning
and we are proud of the effort our team put forth,” Curtin, 62,
said. “We would not have our success in Canada without the
broad support and involvement of our colleagues around the
world.”  Stronger Market  In 2011, RBC ranked No. 1 after advising on $36.3 billion
in deals, edging ahead of Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce,
with C$36.1 billion of takeovers. BMO Capital Markets was third,
with $34.8 billion.  Next year will see a stronger market for takeovers in
Canada as the economy improves, aided by a U.S. recovery and a
stronger China, according to  Mike Boyd , head of global mergers
and acquisitions at Toronto-based CIBC. The U.S. economy is
forecast to grow 2 percent next year, with Canada growth
estimated at 1.8 percent, based on Bloomberg surveys.  “I do think M&A in the mining sector will rebound in 2013,
with a stronger economic outlook, and we’ll continue to see a
fair bit of activity in the oil-and-gas sector,” said Boyd,
whose firm ranked seventh with $25 billion of deals. “We saw
much stronger activity in 2012 than we had in previous years in
energy, and that’s a trend we’ll see continue in 2013.”  The Canadian government’s clarification of Investment
Canada rules on foreign takeovers, as well as its position on
state-owned enterprises owning  Alberta ’s oil-sands companies may
change how deals are done, according to Boyd.  Joint Ventures  “In the oil-sands we will see more joint ventures,
minority investments and those kinds of things, but I don’t
think it will have a significant impact on overall M&A
activity,” Boyd said.  Canadian acquisitions in 2012 weren’t limited to the
country’s resources. Banks were active, with Royal Bank,
Canada’s largest lender by assets, agreeing on Oct. 23 to buy
Ally Financial Inc.’s Canadian auto-finance and deposit business
in a $4.1 billion deal.  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , the third-largest
lender, offered in August to buy the Canadian banking operations
of ING Groep NV for C$3.13 billion.  Quebec  companies were also busy. BCE Inc., Canada’s largest
telecommunications company, offered to buy Astral Media Inc. in
a C$3.38 billion takeover amended in November to address
concerns by the country’s broadcast regulator on competition and
ownership concentration in television and radio. Alimentation
Couche Tarde Inc. of Laval, Quebec, bought Statoil Fuel & Retail
ASA, Scandinavia’s biggest gas-station operator, in a $2.6
billion takeover. Montreal-based CGI Group spent $2.7 billion in
August to buy U.K. computer-services provider Logica Plc.  ‘Competitive Advantage’  RBC also topped the rankings based on the number of deals,
almost double the 57 transactions by second-place BMO  Capital
Markets . TD Securities was third with 40 deals, followed by CIBC
with 33 and Scotiabank with 30 deals.  RBC’s Buzzi credits his firm’s relationships with Canadian
companies and its global platform for its top ranking.  “That’s what we put forward as our competitive advantage
and every year we hope that results in us being No. 1 in the
league tables,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  