-- Record Company Bond Sales Looming as Costs Drop: Turkey Credit
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-12-31T09:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/record-company-bond-sales-looming-as-costs-drop-turkey-credit.html
Turkish companies from Sabiha Gokcen
International Airport to  Alarko Holding AS (ALARK)  are poised to issue a
record amount of international bonds next year after costs
dropped and the country earned an investment-grade rating.  Non-financial companies sold $3.1 billion of debt on
overseas and local markets in 2012, more than 10 times the $270
million in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Of the
total bond sales, $1.2 billion were conducted by two Turkish
non-financial companies in international markets. The average
dollar-bond yield dropped to 3.6 percent last week from almost
twice that in January, bringing it 100 basis points below the
emerging-market average, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
indexes that include yields on bank bonds.  Foreign issuance by Turkish companies will grow further in
2013 as demand remains robust amid speculation the country may
win a second upgrade to investment-grade status, said Derin
Altan, a debt finance director at Unlu & Co., an Istanbul-based
investment bank. Beermaker Anadolu Efes Biracilik & Malt Sanayii
AS sold  Turkey ’s first non-junk corporate bonds in October,
before  Fitch Ratings  increased the sovereign’s rating one level
to BBB- on Nov. 5, citing an easing in economic risk and lower
 government borrowing .  “More Turkish companies are expected to sell Eurobonds
with the anticipation of a second rating upgrade in the first
half,” Altan said in an interview on Dec. 27. “About $2
billion to $3 billion of non-bank Turkish Eurobond sales are
possible in 2013.”  Airport Bonds  Moody’s Investors Service rates Turkey’s foreign debt one
level below investment grade at Ba1, while Standard and Poor’s
puts it two steps below at BB.  Sabiha Gokcen International Airport in Istanbul won
regulatory approval last month to sell as much as 500 million
euros ($664 million) of bonds, according to a statement on the
Capital Markets Board’s website. The company is owned by  GMR
Infrastructure Ltd. (GMRI) , Limak Holding AS and  Malaysia Airports
Holding Bhd. (MAHB)   Alarko Holding, an Istanbul-based company with interests in
construction and energy, will be among those looking to sell
debt next year, according to Chief Executive Officer Ayhan Yavrucu.  “Rates have fallen so much, many corporates in Turkey will
be considering bond sales as a faster and increasingly cheaper
alternative of finding finance,” Yavrucu said in an interview
in Istanbul Dec. 19. “We should be considering too.”  Tupras Debt  Efes raised $500 million of the total $1.2 billion in
dollar bonds sold by Turkish companies this year. The same
month, oil refiner  Tupras Turkiye Petrol Rafinerileri AS (TUPRS) 
borrowed $700 million in a debut offering of bonds due in May
2018.  The premium investors demand to hold Turkey’s dollar debt
over U.S. Treasuries has fallen by 205 basis points, or 2.05
percentage points, this year to 182, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co.’s EMBI Global Index. Turkey’s premium is 89 basis points
below the average for  emerging markets .  Five-year credit-default swaps on Turkey were unchanged at
127. That compares with 131 for  Russia , 83 for  Poland  and 144
for  South Africa . The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or cash if a borrower
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Declining Yields  Yields on benchmark two-year  lira bonds  have dropped 486
basis points this year to 6.15 percent at 10:09 a.m. in Istanbul
today, the best performance among 20 major emerging markets,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The lira was little
changed at 1.7877 per dollar, leaving this year’s gain at 5.8
percent.  Turkey’s susceptibility to risk is high due to the size of
the country’s external imbalances, and geo-political tensions
remain a concern, “as they could increase international
investors’ risk aversion and make it more difficult to finance
the current-account deficit,” Moody’s said Nov. 20 in an annual
credit report.  “A material deterioration in the government’s public-
finance metrics would also result in downward movement in the
outlook or, in extremis, in the rating itself,” it said.  Turkey’s $11.2 billion sale of state assets this month,
including operational rights for toll roads, bridges,
electricity grids and a power plant, will also need financing
partly through bonds, according to Altan at Unlu & Co.  Asset Sale  A group comprising  Koc Holding AS (KCHOL) , Turkey’s biggest group
of companies, Istanbul-based private equity firm  Gozde Girisim
Sermayesi Yatirim Ortakligi AS (GOZDE)  and Malaysia’s UEM Group Bhd bid
$5.7 billion for the rights to operate bridges and roadways in
an auction in Ankara Dec. 17.  Celikler Taahhut Insaat & Sanayi AS, an Ankara-based
builder and miner, bid $2.25 billion to buy the 600 megawatt
Seyitomer power plant and operate the  coal mine  that feeds it on
Dec. 28.  Turkey also sold power grids in Istanbul and Izmir for $3.2
billion. The deals may let the nation meet state-asset sale
goals for the first time in four years in 2013, further
narrowing the budget gap, Finance Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said in
an interview with CNBC-e television on Dec. 20. Altan estimates
the road development may require about $1 billion in financing
through bond markets.  “We would expect primary issuance to continue with the
corporates in 2013, taking full advantage of pricing for an
investment-grade bond,” London-based UBS AG analysts Kathleen Middlemiss and Tatiana Boroditskaya wrote in an e-mailed
research note Dec. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai on 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  