-- Research Prowess of U.S. Colleges Is Exaggerated
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V e d d e r
-- 2012-12-31T23:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/research-prowess-of-u-s-colleges-is-exaggerated.html
U.S. college presidents make no
apologies for their schools’ support for research. After all,
American institutions  dominate  global surveys of universities,
and most lists put a big emphasis on research accomplishments.  Of the 20 top schools for 2012 on the widely used Shanghai
Jiao Tong University  rankings , for example, 17 are American.
Colleges are “carefully evaluated using several indicators of
research performance.”  Yet there has been little scrutiny of whether most of this
research on campuses today is worth it.  Historically, a lot of basic and some applied research at
U.S. universities has paid off, with many advances in computer
and biomedical sciences. Science, however, like virtually
everything else in life, is subject to the law of diminishing
returns. As more and more resources are added to producing
something, less and less additional output occurs at the margin.  The first $10 billion in annual federal research support
for higher education probably yields a bigger payoff than the
second, third or fourth $10 billion increment. Committees
disbursing funds at the National Institutes of Health or the
 National Science Foundation  rank proposals and finance those for
which resources are available, knowing that the 10th proposal
approved is less likely to be scientifically or commercially as
promising as the first or second one.  Applied Research  U.S. total research spending was estimated at $436 billion
for 2012, in a  forecast  done by the Battelle Memorial Institute,
absorbing $2.85 of every $100 of U.S. output. What may come as a
surprise is how little of the work is directly financed by
universities themselves -- about 3 percent of the U.S. total,
according to the National Science Foundation.  Nor are U.S. universities conducting most of this work,
either. More than 80 percent of research dollars in the U.S.
goes to applied research and development, very little of which
is financed or carried out in university facilities, but in
corporate laboratories.  Although most basic research (investigations of fundamental
principles, rather than the commercial application of ideas)
occurs in university laboratories, about 40 percent takes place
in nonacademic industrial settings. Some of it occurs at federal
government-owned research centers managed by universities, such
as the  Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory .  Yet far less than 30 percent of university faculty is in
the hard sciences and engineering fields that receive the vast
majority of outside research funds. The work that takes place on
campus is supported largely by giving faculty ever-lower
teaching loads. A  recent survey  of 30,000 faculty by the Higher
Education Research Institute at the University of California at
Los Angeles shows an increase in the proportion of faculty with
very low teaching loads. In 2007-08, only 7 percent of American
faculty members taught less than four hours a week. By 2011-12,
this figure had risen to almost 15.6 percent, according to the
UCLA study, and at private universities it exceeds 31 percent.  This work might be worth it if a lot of high-quality or
influential material was produced. The evidence, however, shows
this isn’t the case.  The professors may be teaching less, but they aren’t
exactly spending much time on research, either. The UCLA survey
shows that almost 62.6 percent of faculty members spend fewer
than eight hours a week on research endeavors. The typical
professor surveyed publishes only about one paper a year, mostly
for low-circulation academic journals.  Shakespeare Industry  A study  conducted  by Mark Bauerlein, a professor of English
at Emory University, for the Center for College Affordability
and Productivity examined the publications of 156 faculty
members in English departments at four high-quality state
schools (the State University of  New York  at Buffalo and the
universities of Georgia, Illinois and  Vermont ). The study shows
that “there is a glaring mismatch between the resources these
universities and faculty members invest and the impact of most
published scholarship.”  For example, one essay on Shakespeare appearing in a volume
of essays in 2004 collected one citation in the 111 books
written on Shakespeare in the years 2008 and 2009. Four other
essays on Shakespeare didn’t receive a single citation.  Do we really need  one book a week  written on the Bard (the
400th anniversary of whose death is in 2016)? What is the point
of subsidizing scholarly writing that virtually no one reads or
cites? Maybe society would be better off if English professors
had done more teaching and less researching, perhaps helping to
keep college costs lower.  Defenders of the emphasis on research argue that it
strengthens teaching. Tell that to the thousands of students
paying for classes taught by inexperienced adjunct teachers and
graduate students because their professors are off writing one
of the almost 1,000 articles a year published on Shakespeare
that very few people read. An  analysis  of 58 studies dealing
with university research and teaching by John Hattie and H.W.
Marsh concluded there is zero relationship between research and
teaching. Or, as Cardinal  John Henry Newman  put it in 1853 in
“The Idea of a University”: “To discover and to teach are
distinct functions.”  If too much university research is of  dubious value  and
also doesn’t enhance the quality of teaching, a strong case can
be made to reverse the gradual reduction of classroom time, and
the shift toward research in the past half-century. Incentives
are out of whack. Universities get generous overhead funds from
federal research grants, and those who publish receive larger
salary increases.  A more objective cost-benefit analysis of all university
research is overdue. This might help shift attention to where it
belongs: on much-needed improvements in the teaching and
training of the next generation.  (Richard Vedder directs the Center for College
Affordability and Productivity and teaches economics at Ohio
University. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Richard Vedder at  vedder@ohio.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 