-- Tribune Co. Emerges From Bankruptcy
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-12-31T17:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/tribune-co-emerges-from-bankruptcy.html
Tribune Co., owner of the  Chicago
Tribune , Los Angeles Times and six other daily papers, emerged
from bankruptcy, four years after a doomed leveraged buyout by
billionaire  Sam Zell  led to Chapter 11 proceedings.  Distributions to creditors have been initiated, the
Chicago-based company said today in a statement. As part of its
exit from bankruptcy, Tribune Co. also closed on a new $1.1
billion  term loan  and a $300 million revolving  credit line .  The company is now in a position to begin a wide-ranging
sale of assets including stakes in the Food Network and
CareerBuilder Inc., newspapers including the Times and the
Tribune as well as real estate, Lance Vitanza, managing director
at CRT Capital Group LLC, said in a interview.  “It’s all for sale,” Vitanza said. “If they reorganize
around anything it will be the TV assets, but we wouldn’t be
surprised if they sell those too.”  In addition to eight daily newspapers, Tribune Co. owns 23
television stations and stakes in more than 50 websites.  Peter Liguori, a Tribune Co. board member and former Fox
Broadcasting Co. chairman, is expected to be the new chief
executive officer when current CEO Eddy Hartenstein gives up his
position after the company’s next board meeting, Vitanza said.  Liguori, 52, who was named to Yahoo! Inc.’s board earlier
this year, is a consultant at private equity firm  Carlyle Group
LP (CG)  and previously served as  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA) ’s
chief operating officer.  Advertising Slump  Gary Weitman , a Tribune spokesman, declined to comment.  Tribune Co. filed for bankruptcy after Zell, a real-estate
developer, orchestrated an $8.3 billion leveraged buyout of the
company in 2007, just before a global recession and a slump in
print advertising devastated the newspaper industry.  The buyout loaded Tribune Co. with debt, and Zell failed to
pull off a turnaround of the newspapers. He put the company into
bankruptcy in December 2008, triggering a court fight between
bondholders who held Tribune’s pre-buyout debt and the lenders
who funded the takeover. A settlement approved by the  bankruptcy
court  allowed the older creditors to try to recover some of
their losses by pursuing lawsuits against shareholders and
managers, including Zell.  In November, Tribune Co. won approval from the Federal
Communications Commission to transfer its television and radio
licenses to new owners -- including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
Oaktree Capital Management LP and Angelo, Gordon & Co. -- the
last hurdle to emerging from bankruptcy. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Kevin Carey accepted Tribune’s proposal to divide ownership of
the newspaper and television company among its lenders in July.  New Owners  Asset sales will be the quickest way JPMorgan, Oaktree and
Angelo, Gordon & Co. can profit from their new ownership stakes,
Vitanza said.  “They will get maximum value by breaking the company into
little pieces and selling it off piecemeal,” Vitanza said.  The company’s owners have been seeking an adviser for a
possible sale of at least some of its newspapers, people
familiar with the situation said earlier this month.  Rupert Murdoch , chairman and CEO of  News Corp. (NWSA) , plans to take a close
look at Tribune Co.’s newspaper assets once they’re available,
according to a person with knowledge of his thinking.  Tribune Co.’s board -- Bruce Karsh, Ken Liang, Peter
Murphy,  Ross Levinsohn , Craig A. Jacobson, Liguori and
Hartenstein -- will meet in the next several weeks, the company
said. The directors will ratify the company’s executive officers
at that time. Until then, Hartenstein will remain in the CEO
job, Tribune Co. said.  “Tribune emerges from the bankruptcy process as a multi-
media company with a great mix of profitable assets, strong
brands in major markets and a much-improved capital structure,”
Hartenstein said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  