-- SC Global Falls After CEO Maintains Offer Price: Singapore Mover
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-12-31T04:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/sc-global-falls-after-ceo-maintains-offer-price-singapore-mover.html
SC Global Developments Ltd. (SCGD) ,
 Singapore ’s luxury developer, dropped the most in almost three
months after saying Chief Executive Officer Simon Cheong doesn’t
plan to raise the price in his buyout offer.  Cheong “has no intention of increasing the offer price”
of S$1.80 per share, the company said in filing to the Singapore
stock exchange yesterday. The offer will close on Jan. 16,
according to the statement. The stock, which has closed above
Cheong’s offer price for 14 days, declined 4 percent to S$1.825
at the close of trading in Singapore. The shares posted their
biggest decline since Oct. 8.  Cheong’s S$745 million ($609 million) buyout offer is
“fair and reasonable,” Prime Partners Corporate Finance Pte,
an independent financial adviser, said on Dec. 26, recommending
shareholders accept the offer, according to a circular sent to
investors.  Traders had been betting the most lucrative takeover offer
in Singapore will get even sweeter for the luxury property
developer. At 61 percent more than the stock’s 20-day  average ,
Cheong offered the biggest premium for any acquisition of a
developer in Singapore on record, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Since then, SC Global’s second-largest investor,
Wheelock & Co., bought shares above the deal price, and the
stock closed at S$1.90 last week, indicating traders expect
Cheong to pay more.  Facing Risks  “The risk is that if Wheelock doesn’t tender shares, then
they may not be able to completely get it privatized and then
they could incur heavy extension charges,” said Vikrant Pandey,
a Singapore-based analyst at UOB Kay Hian Pte, which advised
investors to sell SC Global shares in the offer.  As a company with foreign shareholders, SC Global faces
fines for failing to sell units within two years of completing
developments. That law is designed to ensure land in Singapore,
an island state with a population of more than 5 million, isn’t
hoarded for speculation.  There is currently no discussion with  Wheelock Properties
Ltd. (20)  for a merger, SC Global said in a separate filing yesterday.  The stock rose to the highest in almost five years on Dec.
17 after Wheelock said it bought 1.07 million shares at S$1.81,
exceeding Cheong’s offer price. Wheelock, also a developer, said
it named Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as its financial adviser in
relation to Cheong’s offer.  Still, sales have slowed after Singapore took steps to
discourage speculation in real estate, requiring foreigners to
pay an additional 10 percent tax on property purchases and
adding levies on second or third homes. Amid fluctuating sales,
SC Global reported losses in three of the four most recent
quarters, and  earnings  are expected to fall  79 percent  in 2012,
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  When Cheong made the offer, he said that an unlisted
company would have more flexibility if it didn’t have to report
results on a quarterly basis and said that SC Global hasn’t
tapped capital markets in at least six years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net  