-- Spain’s Iberdrola, Bolivia to Meet on Seizure of Businesses
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-12-31T10:40:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/spain-s-iberdrola-bolivia-to-meet-on-seizure-of-businesses.html
Iberdrola SA (IBE)  executives and Bolivian
officials are likely to meet soon to discuss compensation for
 Spain ’s largest utility after the nationalization of its
Bolivian operations, Energy Minister Juan Jose Sosa said.  Bolivian army and police seized buildings occupied by
Iberdrola on Dec. 29, hours after President  Evo Morales  ordered
the nationalization of four business units owned by the company.
The South American nation may hold talks next week with
Iberdrola in Bolivia’s capital of  La Paz , Sosa said.  “I would imagine that next week they’re going to be
here,” he said yesterday on a state-controlled radio and
television show, according to  Agencia Boliviana de Informacion ,
a state-owned news service. “We’re going to talk, always in a
cordial atmosphere, to see in what way we can arrive at a
transition that is favorable for both sides.”  Morales has moved to put the telecommunications, energy and
water industries under state control since taking power in 2006.
In June, the government nationalized the Colquiri tin and zinc
mine owned by  Glencore International Plc. (GLEN)   As in past takeovers, Bolivian authorities seized several
buildings from the Iberdrola units in La Paz, Argentine CN23 TV
showed. Employees didn’t oppose their entrance.  “We have been forced to make this decision as we want to
have egalitarian electricity rates in rural and urban areas,”
Morales said Dec. 29 in a broadcast from the presidential
palace.  Shares Drop  Iberdrola shares dropped 1.3 percent to 4.08 euros at 9:56
a.m. in  Madrid  trading, after earlier falling as much as 2.8
percent, the most since Nov. 28.  “Assuming there will be no news of compensation for
Iberdrola” the shares will close lower, Gonzalo Sanchez- Bordona, an analyst at  Banco BPI SA (BPI) , said in a telephone
interview from Madrid.  The takeover comes seven months after Bolivia expropriated
assets of Spain’s  Red Electrica Corp. (REE) , which is still in the
process of being compensated by the government.  “This provides, in our view, little hope for Iberdrola to
reach a quick agreement,” Sanchez-Bordana said.  The latest seizure follows a series of Spanish company
takeovers by Latin American governments, as Argentine President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  took control of oil company YPF
SA when her government seized 51 percent of the company’s shares
from Spain’s  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  in April. Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  agreed to pay $1.05 billion to nationalize  Banco
Santander SA (SAN) ’s local unit in May.  ‘Political Decision’  Iberdrola was notified by Bolivia that the government has
nationalized its electricity holdings in the South American
country, according to spokesman Jose Luis Gonzalez Besada.  “We expect to obtain a fair value from our stakes in the
Bolivian companies,” he said in a telephone interview from
Madrid yesterday. “We understand it is a political decision and
we will kindly and cordially speak with the country’s
authorities.”  The units include two electricity distributors, a service
company and an investment firm tied to the power business, said
a Bolivian government official in a telephone interview from La
Paz. He asked not to be identified as he isn’t an authorized
spokesman.  Defend Itself  Iberdrola should receive compensation after an independent
review of its assets within the next six months, Morales said in
his television broadcast.  At least 15 companies have been nationalized in  Bolivia 
since 2006.  “Spain laments Bolivia’s government’s decision to
nationalize these four businesses, which have Spanish,
Argentinian and North American companies among their
shareholders,” Spain’s Foreign Affairs Ministry said in a
statement sent by e-mail Dec. 29.  Iberdrola’s electricity distributors are the largest in La
Paz and the city of Oruro. Only 33 percent of homes in rural
Bolivia and 87 percent of urban homes have access to
electricity, the Energy Ministry said on its  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  