-- Sundance Surges as Congo Mining Permit Boosts Deal Confidence
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-12-31T00:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/sundance-surges-as-congo-mining-permit-boosts-deal-confidence.html
Sundance Resources Ltd. (SDL)  surged the
most in 17 months after gaining a permit for its iron ore mine,
boosting confidence that a A$1.14 billion ($1.2 billion)
takeover offer from Sichuan Hanlong Group will go ahead.  Sundance, developing the $4.7 billion Mbalam rail, port and
iron-ore mine bordering Cameroon and the Republic of Congo, rose
as much as 17 percent, the most since July 18, 2011. Sundance
traded at 37 Australian cents at 11:11 a.m. in Sydney.  Congo approved a mining permit for the Nabeba deposit that
forms part of Mbalam, paving the way for work to start once
financing is confirmed, the Perth-based company said today in a
statement.  China  Development Bank earlier this month delayed
approving backing for Hanlong’s takeover, in part because it
sought to review the mining permit.  “It’s one of the key approvals that they needed to get
further uncertainty removed from the project,” Hayden Bairstow,
a Sydney-based resources analyst with CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets
Ltd., said by phone. “Confidence in the industry has been
shaken in terms of funding these high-cost, long-life projects
in places like West Africa.”  Hanlong, a Chinese investor in highway and power projects
that already owns 14.15 percent of Sundance, delayed the
acquisition after  China Development Bank  failed to agree on
terms for a loan by a Dec. 13 deadline. China is urging its
companies to buy assets overseas and secure energy and commodity
resources to meet domestic demand.  Hanlong in August cut its takeover offer for Sundance by 21
percent to 45 cents a share after iron ore prices fell. The
initial 57 cents-a-share offer was agreed to in October 2011.  The purchase of Sundance is scheduled to be completed by
March 1, Hanlong said in a statement on Dec. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  