-- U.K. Commercial Property Investment Fell 9% on Non-London Slump
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-12-31T12:43:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/u-k-commercial-property-investment-fell-9-on-non-london-slump.html
Investors bought 30 billion pounds
($49 billion) of income-producing property in the U.K. this
year, about 9 percent less than in 2011, according to broker
 Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)   London real estate deals totaled 18 billion pounds in 2012,
the most in four years, the Chicago-based broker said in a
report today. Purchases outside the U.K. capital reached 12
billion pounds, the lowest amount in that period.  A lack of prime properties available for purchase and
limited lending by U.K. banks means investors with cash will
start developing properties in central London in 2013, and those
buildings will be in demand when they’re completed, the company
forecast. Development tends to generate greater potential
returns than investments in completed buildings with rent-paying
tenants in place.  “Given the limited finance for this type of activity,
pricing will be competitive for those with equity and therefore
we expect to see more overseas capital looking for opportunities
to partner with local specialists and fund prime developments,”
Jones Lang said.  Other investors will try to improve the quality of existing
buildings in  London  or change their use to increase rental
income and boost the selling price, according to the company.
Blackstone Group LP, manager of the world’s biggest property
fund, has begun to cash in that sort of investment.  Banks will continue to sell off distressed loan books
secured by real estate in 2013 and funds that bought loans from
financial institutions in 2009 and 2010 may sell them this year,
according to the report.  U.K. funds will consider buying real estate outside London
next year, the broker predicted. “In the regional markets,
capital values have not yet started to recover and an
anticipated recovery has yet to be priced in,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 