-- U.K. Financial Advisers Move to Hourly Fees With Commissions Ban
-- B y   A n t h o n y   A a r o n s
-- 2012-12-31T12:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/u-k-financial-advisers-move-to-hourly-fees-with-commissions-ban.html
U.K. financial advisers won’t be
able to charge commissions on some products under new rules
designed to make the fees paid by consumers more transparent.  Under the Financial Services Authority’s Retail
Distribution Review, which takes effect today, advisers will
charge clients hourly fees for counsel on investments and be
subject to tougher standards for training and accreditation.  “These changes are about making the cost of advice
clearer, where else would you buy something without knowing in
advance how much it costs?” Linda Woodall, head of investment
intermediaries at the FSA, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Customers will now know how much advice is costing them, the
service that they are receiving and be reassured that their
adviser is qualified.”  The FSA says the new rules will reduce mis-selling and
build  consumer confidence  after faith in the industry was shaken
by a number of scandals linked to improper sales of some
products. U.K. banks are repaying billions of pounds to
customers who were wrongly sold payment-protection insurance.  Financial advisers will have to clearly describe their
services as independent or restricted, the FSA said.  Independent advisers will be able to consider all types of
retail investment products which could meet the customer’s needs
and consider items from all firms across the market.  A restricted adviser will only be able to recommend certain
products, providers, or both, meaning they might only offer
items from one company, or just one type of product.  The RDR was one of the regulator’s top priorities before
the financial crisis in 2008 and the banking system was bailed
out by the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 