-- U.S. Mortgage Firms Said to Near $10 Billion Settlement
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-12-31T20:26:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/u-s-mortgage-firms-said-to-near-10-billion-settlement.html
U.S. regulators led by the Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency will replace a largely fruitless
effort to find victims of botched foreclosures at the 14 biggest
mortgage servicers with flat penalties, five people briefed on
the talks said.  Bank of America Corp. ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are among servicers that
may make concessions totaling about $10 billion, said the
people, who requested anonymity because the discussions are
private. The funds would compensate borrowers whose homes were
wrongfully seized using faulty paperwork and aid homeowners in
danger of default, the people said.  The penalties would supplant a system allowing borrowers
who lost homes in 2009 and 2010 to seek compensation after
foreclosure reviews. The program, which housing advocates said
failed to reach its intended targets, was set up under consent
decrees the banks signed with regulators in 2011. It drew
356,000 applicants out of what the advocates said were 4.4
million eligible borrowers. Today is the application deadline
and no borrowers have yet received compensation, the OCC said.  “They’re trying to fix a system that was faulty from the
beginning,”  Ira Rheingold , executive director of the National
Association of Consumer Advocates, said in a phone interview.
“The people in charge created a program that was not designed
to help homeowners.  They’ve been trying in fits and starts to
improve it. I think at some point they threw up their hands and
said, ‘This is not working.’”  Federal Reserve  An announcement of the new enforcement action could come as
soon as this week, the people said. The  New York  Times reported
on the $10 billion figure in today’s editions.  Robert Garsson, a spokesman for the OCC, declined to
comment on a potential agreement with banks. He said the agency
would continue working to compensate homeowners who have applied
for relief under the consent decrees. Spokesmen for the other
regulators involved in the process, the  Federal Reserve  and the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., also declined to comment.  “The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency is
committed to ensuring the Independent Foreclosure Review
proceeds efficiently and to ensuring harmed borrowers are
compensated as quickly as possible,” Garsson said in an e-mail.  Dan Frahm , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America,  Amy Bonitatibus  at New York-based JPMorgan,
Vickee Adams at Wells Fargo in  San Francisco  and Citigroup’s
 Mark Rodgers  declined to comment.  Eligible Borrowers  It’s too soon to tell whether the new agreement between
banks and regulators will leave more money in consumers’ pockets
than the so-called independent foreclosure reviews, housing
advocates said. If all eligible borrowers had applied for and
received compensation after the reviews, banks could have paid
out far more than $10 billion, the advocates said. The
agreements allowed homeowners to get as much as $125,000 plus
the value of lost home equity.  “All of the problems with the process that we outlined for
over a year made it clear that it was unlikely that serious
compensation would come out of that without changes,” said Alys Cohen, staff attorney at the National Consumer Law Center.
“Changes could have been made but weren’t, and in light of that
it’s important to get bank payments into the hands of
homeowners.”  The 2011 enforcement actions required lenders to strengthen
systems for handling foreclosure documents and communicating
with borrowers who are behind on payments. Banks were forced to
hire independent reviewers to probe wrongdoing in home seizures.  Home Seizures  As consumer advocates complained about a lack of
interaction with borrowers, banks were saddled with costs from
hiring independent reviewers such as PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
and Promontory Financial Group LLC. Under the agreement, those
firms reviewed samples of 2009 and 2010 foreclosures while any
borrower who felt wronged could also file a complaint.  The deal with the OCC is among other efforts by federal and
state governments to hold banks accountable for botched home
seizures.  Separately, U.S. state attorneys general and federal
authorities are continuing to press regional banks to accept a
settlement over mishandled foreclosure documents similar to a
deal reached with larger competitors this year, according to
people briefed on the talks.  U.S. Bancorp,  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) ,  SunTrust
Banks Inc. (STI)  and London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  have held talks
with state and federal officials who investigated claims that
loan servicers mishandled foreclosure documents.  Robo-Signing  State attorneys general led by  Tom Miller , an Iowa
Democrat, began an investigation of mortgage servicers in
October 2010 after reports that practices including “robo-
signing” had led to improper foreclosures. The probe culminated
in a $25 billion settlement in February among the five biggest
servicers -- Wells Fargo, JPMorgan, Bank of America, Citigroup
and Detroit-based Ally Financial Inc. -- and 49 states and the
federal government.  “Our negotiations with additional servicers are ongoing,”
said Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Miller.  The deal with the largest servicers compensates borrowers
who lost their homes to foreclosures, forgives debt, gives
payment forbearances, arranges short sales and refinances
mortgages at lower rates. It also specifies new standards for
fair servicing of mortgages. In return, the banks received
limited protection from independent litigation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  