-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Fall as Obama Hopeful on Budget Deal
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-12-31T19:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/u-s-company-credit-swaps-fall-as-obama-hopeful-on-budget-deal.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk fell the most in more than a month as President  Barack Obama  said an agreement to avert the so-called fiscal cliff
appeared to be “within sight.”  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 5
basis points to a mid-price of 94.4 basis points at 2:01 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
steepest decline since Nov. 19.  Obama said at an event at the White House he was
“hopeful” Congress will reach a smaller deal that prevents tax
increases for all wage earners. The president said the main
sticking point was how to avoid the automatic federal spending
cuts set to begin tomorrow.  Under a proposed deal, income tax cuts would be extended
for annual income up to $450,000, said an official who spoke on
condition of anonymity, with rates rising to 39.6 percent on
income above that. Expanded unemployment insurance would be
continued through 2013.  Lawmakers face a looming deadline to reach a deal that
would avoid the more than $600 billion in tax increases and
spending cuts set to take effect after today that the
Congressional Budget Office said would probably cause a
recession in the first half of 2013.  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
recommended trading in dollar-denominated fixed-income
securities end at 2 p.m. New York time today and a full-market
close tomorrow, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  