-- U.S. Gasoline at Pump Averaged Record High in 2012, AAA Says
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2012-12-31T18:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/u-s-gasoline-at-pump-averaged-record-high-in-2012-aaa-says-1-.html
Motorists in the U.S. paid record
high prices for gasoline in 2012, as severe weather and
political tensions drove up the cost of fuel.  The national average price of  gasoline  in 2012 was $3.60 a
gallon, nine cents more than the previous annual record set last
year, said Heathrow, Florida-based AAA, the nation’s largest
motoring group.  Prices touched $3.94 a gallon on April 5 and 6 after  crude
oil  rallied as the U.S. and European nations imposed an embargo
on Iranian oil exports to pressure the Persian Gulf nation over
its nuclear program. Prices sank as low as $3.22 a gallon on
Dec. 20 amid lower demand and higher supply in winter, when
motor fuel faces looser emissions regulations.  “Factors as volatile as major hurricanes, refinery outages
and tension in the Middle East resulted in significant
frustration for people filling up their cars,” Avery Ash, a
spokesman for AAA, said in an e-mailed statement.  Hawaii, Alaska and California were the three most expensive
states, while  South Carolina ,  Missouri  and  Mississippi  were the
cheapest.  Gasoline prices will probably drop next year than in 2012
because of increased domestic crude production and lower motor-
fuel demand, Ash said.  Rising Production  The U.S. produced 6.98 million barrels of oil a day in the
week ended Dec. 21, the most since March 1993, according to
Energy Department data. Drillers in states like  North Dakota  and
 Texas  have spurred the output growth with increased use of
methods such as directional drilling and hydraulic fracturing.  The four-week average for gasoline demand the week ended
Dec. 21 was 3.3 percent below a year earlier,  MasterCard Inc. (MA) 
said last week. Year-to-date fuel consumption is 3.6 percent
below the same period in 2011. The information is based on
credit-card swipes and cash and check payments at about 140,000
U.S. gasoline stations.  If U.S. legislators fail to reach a budget deal, the
economy could fall into a recession, further depressing price
forecasts for next year, Ash said.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said negotiators could
reach a U.S. budget deal today that would protect all but top
earners from a tax increase at midnight.  The biggest sticking point in the final hours before the
deadline is how to cancel or delay more than $600 billion in
automatic spending cuts to defense and domestic programs, said
two congressional aides familiar with the talks. Lawmakers also
were narrowing the annual income level at which tax rates would
increase in 2013 to between $400,000 and $500,000.  “What happens with gas prices this year will be impacted
by decisions in Washington this month,” Ash said. “Yet no
matter what happens in Congress, AAA is optimistic that gas
prices will be less expensive than in 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  