-- U.S. Aware of Report of al-Qaeda Bounty on Ambassador
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2012-12-31T18:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/u-s-aware-of-report-of-al-qaeda-bounty-on-ambassador.html
The U.S. is aware of reports that
al-Qaeda’s  Yemen  affiliate has offered a reward in gold for
anyone who kills the U.S. ambassador in Yemen, State Department
spokesman Peter Velasco said today.  The threat comes as the U.S. has ramped up its covert
program of drone air strikes this year targeting senior al-Qaeda
operatives in remote areas of Yemen.  The group al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula offered three
kilograms of gold, worth about $160,000, for killing Ambassador
Gerald Feierstein, according to an audio statement produced by
the group’s media arm and posted on militant websites Dec. 29,
the  Associated Press  reported.  “We take these threats very seriously,” Velasco said by
telephone.  “Our embassy in Yemen already operates in a highly
sensitive and difficult situation,” he said. “We continue to
support the government, military and people of Yemen in their
efforts against violent extremism and terrorism.”  He wouldn’t comment on whether security has increased since
the threat.  Feierstein, a career Foreign Service officer who is a
specialist in Near East and South Asian Affairs, has served as
ambassador to Yemen since September 2010.  The U.S. is known to have carried out at least 42 air
strikes against the group in Yemen this year, including four
this month, according to the website the Long War Journal, which
 tracks  such reports. It says there were 10 known U.S. strikes in
Yemen in 2011.  The Long War Journal, a project of the Foundation for the
Defense of Democracies, a Washington policy group, says there
were 193 reported al-Qaeda casualties from the strikes this
year, up from 81 in 2011, and 35 civilian casualties, up from
none the year before.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  