-- TVA Nuclear Slowdown Snaps 7-Day Advance in Southeast
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-12-31T17:20:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/tva-nuclear-slowdown-snaps-7-day-advance-in-southeast.html
The  Tennessee Valley Authority 
slowed the 1,123-megawatt Watts Bar 1 reactor in Tennessee early
today, snapping a seven-day advance for nuclear output in the
Southeast.  Generation  nationwide  declined by 0.6 percent to 90,632
megawatts, or 89 percent of capacity, according to U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission data compiled by Bloomberg. Output was 6.4
percent less than a  year earlier  with eight of 104 nuclear
reactors offline.  Tennessee Valley  reduced  the Watts Bar 1 unit, located
about 55 miles (88 kilometers) southwest of Knoxville, to 20
percent of capacity from full power to conduct maintenance on a
feed water valve on the non-nuclear portion of the plant,
according to Ray Golden, a company spokesman based in Knoxville.  “The repair has been completed and the plant is conducting
post maintenance testing,” Golden said in an e-mail.  The Watts Bar decline led production lower by 2.3 percent
to  27,987 megawatts  in the Southeast, known as the NRC’s Region
2, according to commission data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the lowest level since Dec. 23 and the  first decline  in a week.  Seabrook Slowdown  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE) ’s 1,295-megawatt Seabrook 1 reactor,
the largest nuclear unit in the NRC’s Northeast, or Region 1,
cut power to  56 percent  of capacity from 100 percent yesterday.  “We’re down temporarily while we do maintenance on the
secondary side of the plant,” Alan Griffith, a company
spokesman based at the plant, said in a phone interview. “As
soon as we complete the work we will be at full power. This is
what we consider routine scheduled maintenance.”  The unit, situated about 13 miles south of Portsmouth,  New
Hampshire , led the decline in the Northeast, where nuclear
generation fell by 0.3 percent to 24,193 megawatts.  Susquehanna 2, a  PPL Corp. (PPL)  plant with the capacity to
generate  1,140 megawatts  in  Pennsylvania , ran at 86 percent of
power from 44 percent yesterday. The unit began increasing
output Dec. 28 after an electrical connection caused an
automatic shutdown, according to a company statement.  “We are still in the process of going through the various
checks and tests on that unit as it returns to full power,” Joe Scopelliti, a spokesman based at the plant, said in an e-mail
responding to questions.  Grand Gulf Scram  Entergy Corp. (ETR) ’s 1,297-megawatt Grand Gulf 1 reactor in
 Mississippi  operated at 1 percent of power early today after
automatically shutting Dec. 29 because of a turbine trip,
according to an  event notification  on the commission’s website.  As of Dec. 29, the unit was “in hot shutdown with decay
heat removal to the condenser and the electrical line-up is in a
normal configuration,” the report showed. “The cause of the
turbine/generator trip is under investigation.”  A protective relay may have malfunctioned, shutting the
plant down when there was not disturbance in operating
conditions, said Mike Bowling, a company spokesman based in
Jackson, Mississippi.  Reactor maintenance shutdowns, usually undertaken in the
U.S. spring or fall when energy use is lowest, may increase
consumption of natural gas and coal to generate electricity. The
average refueling down time was 43 days in 2011, according to
the  Nuclear Energy Institute .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  