-- Why Do We Drink Champagne on New Year’s Eve?
-- B y   B e c k y   S u e   E p s t e i n
-- 2012-12-31T15:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/why-do-we-drink-champagne-on-new-year-s-eve-.html
Ever wonder why we celebrate New
Year’s Eve with champagne? The answer dates back at least 1,500
years. And it involves a mix of history, location and -- not
least -- skillful marketing.  In the late fifth century, King Clovis, the reigning
monarch of northern  France , was fighting to defend his
territory. Legend has it that he promised his wife, the
Burgundian princess Clotilde, that if he won his next battle, he
would convert to Christianity. He won, and in 496 he was
baptized in a church in the city of Reims, in the heart of
France’s Champagne region.  For centuries afterward, kings of France were crowned in
Reims, eventually at a great cathedral built there. Before
trains and cars, trekking out to Reims was a major undertaking.
So, after a coronation, the royal court would linger in the
Champagne region for a while, and partake of the local wines.  In the Middle Ages, the wine world was very different from
what it is today. Like other agricultural products, wine was
commonly consumed within a year after it was produced. Grapes
were harvested and fermented for a few weeks, then exported
during the fall and winter, usually shipped in barrels. The
wines of Champagne at the time were “still,” not effervescent as
champagne is today.  Fizzy Wine  As the trade picked up over the centuries, and more and
more wine was exported, sometimes new barrels weren’t opened
until spring -- when the wine inside would be fizzy. This
happened because the yeasts that had been fermenting the wine
went dormant when the cold weather arrived in the fall. As the
weather warmed, the yeasts “woke up” and started consuming the
grape sugars left in the wine. Alcohol is one of the byproducts
of yeasts fermenting grape juice. Another is carbon dioxide, the
same stuff that carbonates soda. When fermentation occurs in a
closed container, the carbon dioxide infuses the liquid and
forms sparkling wine.  Although this process was happening in other wine regions,
Champagne had several advantages. Its major towns were located
on rivers at a time when water was the shipping highway of the
world. And the region supplied wine not only to the French court
in Paris but also to England and Holland -- coastal areas too
far north to grow their own grapes -- where sparkling wine was
gaining in popularity.  Enter the famous monk  Dom Perignon , at the end of the 17th
century. Perignon didn’t actually “invent” champagne, but he
improved the quality of his abbey’s vineyards and its wine. As
demand for effervescent wine grew, he began packaging the
product in bottles, helping to maintain its sparkle. He also
figured out how to stopper the bottles with corks, and how to
secure the corks with string.  In 1728, King Louis XV, a champagne fan, decreed that only
Champagne’s wines could be shipped in bottles; other French
wines were to be shipped in barrels. This made it possible for
Champagne’s merchants to reliably deliver sparkling wine to
their customers. At the time, quite a bit of champagne was
consumed at the French court. In addition to being fun, it was
considered a light and beneficial beverage.  Seeing a ready market, merchants in Champagne began
switching over from wool, cloth and other local commodities to
sparkling wine.  It wasn’t easy. Champagne’s complicated production and
aging methods, along with variable glass quality, meant that a
great deal of wine was often wasted. Many cellar workers also
suffered injuries or even death when they were hit by exploding
bottles, or slipped on the rivers of champagne created when
blocks of stacked bottles shattered in underground aging
caverns. The early producers who succeeded probably were more
lucky than careful.  They were also relentless marketers. With champagne known
to please the courts of France and England, producers began
promoting their sparkling wines in the other major cities of
Europe -- even going as far as Russia and the U.S.  Aspirational Beverage  At first, royal favor made champagne an easy sell to the
nobility. But with the rise of industrialization in the 19th
century, the nobles were no longer guaranteed to be the
wealthiest consumers. Champagne producers dangled their products
in front of the newly rich merchant class: an aspirational
beverage. Of course, these new customers couldn’t afford to
drink champagne every day, but they could afford it on special
occasions. Soon they began ordering it for all celebrations.
Champagne became de rigueur at festivities from weddings to ship
christenings -- to ringing in the New Year.  New Year’s Eve celebrations probably originated millennia
ago as religious ceremonies, part of solstice rituals. And
associating drink with religious observances has endured as a
tradition since pagans made offerings to their gods with a
special mead or wine. Over the ensuing centuries, as New Year’s
Eve evolved from a religious festivity to a secular one, the
concept of a drink fine enough for the gods became intertwined
with champagne’s reputation as a celebratory extravagance. And
that reputation is what champagne marketers continue to offer.
The drink’s status has been maintained for centuries by
intentional association with opulence.  Plus, it’s fun. We enjoy seeing the froth of the wine as it
fills our glass, and we delight in watching the magically
renewing bubbles as we drink. Champagne tingles on the tongue,
and its fizz seems to carry aromas and flavors straight to our
heads.  Even so, people rarely drink too much champagne. In
addition to price considerations, it’s not easy to consume
bubbles fast -- except, perhaps, on New Year’s Eve.  (Becky Sue Epstein is the author of “Champagne: A Global
History” and an editor at Intermezzo Magazine and the Tasting
Panel. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Becky Sue Epstein at
 Becky@BeckySueEpstein.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  