-- Wine Underpants Join Space Whisky on Sale: Elin McCoy
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2013-01-01T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/wine-underpants-join-space-whisky-on-sale-elin-mccoy.html
Dark, cold outer space is the new
wine and spirits frontier.  The extraterrestrial terroir taste in Meteorito, a cabernet
made at  Chile ’s  Tremonte  winery, comes from a 4.5-billion-year-
old meteorite from the asteroid belt between Jupiter and Mars.  Winery general manager Ian Hutcheon, owner of the nearby
 Centro Astronomico Tagua Tagua  and anxious to join his two
passions, submerged the 3-inch space rock in some of his 2010
cabernet for a year.  In a blind tasting with colleagues, he found the bottled
wine had a livelier and fresher taste, “with a curious twist.”
It’s coming soon to New York, where it will cost about $20 a
bottle.  The  Ardbeg  whisky distillery on the Scottish island of
Islay, on the other hand, announced that it had sent plastic
vials of unaged single malt molecules where no dram had gone
before: the international space station, 250 miles above earth.  The mission: a two-year study with space research company
NanoRacks LLC to see how the famously peaty spirit ages in near
zero-G. The cost to find out how complex flavor molecules called
“terpenes” interact with charred oak in this atmosphere is
half a million dollars.  Will all this result in new aromas and flavors for a space-
inspired whisky? We’ll beam down the results in 2013.  Space’s vast potential for wine and spirits was only one
highlight among 2012’s weird and wacky stories.  Robot Rack  An over-the-top wine rack in the style of a giant
Transformer  robot  toy is posted on Craigslist for $7,000. Six
feet tall, weighing 1,000 pounds and made from old automobile
and motorcycle transmission parts in  China , it’s billed by its
 Arizona  owner as “ridiculously cool.”  Most of the 32 welded bottle slots store wines vertically,
so it isn’t ideal for super pricy wines, but perfect for the
fan-boy geek who has everything. First posted in June, it’s
still available.  The French designers of a cute vine-pruning, data-
collecting robot named  Wall-Ye V.I.N. , which debuted in
September, are now taking orders. Red with white trim, Wall-Ye
is 20 inches tall and has two arms, four wheels and six cameras.  It’s solar-powered, doesn’t get tired, drunk, or go on
strike, and costs 25,000 euros ($33,100). Chateau Mouton
Rothschild offered its prestigious vineyards for test runs,
according to Agence France Presse.  Wine Perfume  The newest wine pairing is with perfume, long a no-no combo
for serious tasters. After being called out by a winemaker at
Napa Valley’s Rombauer Vineyards for wearing a vanilla scent,
fragrance marketer  Kelly Jones  set herself the task of making
five perfumes, introduced in 2012, that she says enhance wine.  “I didn’t want scents to smell like wine spilled on my
shirt,” Jones said in a telephone interview. “For ‘Notes of
Merlot’ I picked up on the varietal’s whiffs of candied
violet.”  Others may prefer to try out new mini-aerosol flavor-spray
for the mouth,  Wahh Quantum Sensations , which provides a
fleeting feeling of drunkenness “without the harmful effects of
alcohol.” Designer Philippe Starck and Harvard University
scientist David Edwards say the purpose is to “accent life with
a magic wand.”  2012 was also a year of strange wines we definitely don’t
need, like  Almond Roca  cream dessert wine from Washington State,
which takes chocolate-infused wines to a new, treacly level.  Nude Prince  U.K. merchant Sheldon’s Wine Cellars offers the
“uncomplicated, easy-drinking” 2011  Royal Blush Rose , with a
label based on nude Prince Harry photos taken at an August bare-
it-all-party in Las Vegas.  And there are the wines of Dr. Ruth Westheimer. Labels of
her Sonoma-made Vin d’Amour chardonnay, cabernet, and white
zinfandel feature a portrait of the famous 84-year-old sex
 therapist .  Dr. Ruth says the obvious -- that wine helps couples relax
and get aroused, but too much impairs performance. Which is why
she wanted her wines to have a weak 6 percent alcohol. Fifty
shades of chutzpah!  Eroticism is also key to the just-launched G-Spirits line
of vodka, single malt whisky, and rum, created by former
bartenders Maximilian and Julian Goldbach in  Germany .  Before
bottling, every single drop of booze is poured over the naked
breasts of beautiful women, like Hungarian playmate of the year
Alexa Varga, to give the taste “a unique erotic character.”  X-Rated Labels  According to Max Goldbach, their customers, mostly men
(surprise!), range from 18 to 72. Lest you are worried about how
sanitary this is, the website claims that medical personnel
supervise. The labels are X-rated, which is why you’ll have to
go to the website to view.  Maybe G-Spirits call for the nuttiest wine accessory of
2012,  Vinderpants . Advertised as “underpants for your wine,”
the cotton and spandex bottle coverings appeal, I think, only to
those with a very special sense of humor. Still, there were just
two left in stock on Amazon.com when I checked right after
Christmas.  ( Elin McCoy  writes about wine and spirits for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art and  Craig
Seligman  on books.  To contact the writer of this story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 