-- Zimbabwe May Halve Mining Fees After Impala, Rio Protest
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2012-12-31T11:56:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-31/zimbabwe-may-halve-mining-fees-after-impala-rio-protest.html
Zimbabwe  plans to halve mining
levies in 2013 after companies including  Impala Platinum
Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  complained that increases this year are hindering
development, Deputy Mines Minister Gift Chimanikire said.  “We have proposed to the Ministry of Finance that the
mining fees be reduced by 50 percent,” he said in a Dec. 28
interview from Harare, the capital. “We’re now waiting for the
Ministry of Finance to approve the new fee structure, which will
happen in the new year.”  Zimbabwe, which has the biggest platinum and chrome
reserves after  South Africa , in February raised diamond-mining
licenses to $5 million from $1 million, while an application for
a platinum-mining license climbed to $500,000 from $200,
according to the Government Gazette. The government, which said
the revised fees were meant to deter speculative holdings of
mineral claims, in April said it planned to review the duties
following complaints.  The country is trying to boost revenue from mining and
other industries as it seeks to recover from a decade-long
recession that ended in 2009 when neighboring countries brokered
the formation of a coalition government to ease a political
dispute between President  Robert Mugabe ’s Zimbabwe African
National Union-Patriotic Front part and the Movement for
Democratic Change of Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai .  Impala, which is based in Johannesburg and and controls
Zimbabwe’s biggest platinum operation, said on Feb. 16 that the
increase in fees will cost $1 billion and bankrupt the country’s
mining industry.  Diamonds, Gold  The decision to raise fees has harmed the outlook for the
industry, the country’s Chamber of Mines, whose members include
Impala’s Zimplats unit, London-based  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) ,  China ’s
Sinosteel Corp. and closely held Metallon Corp Ltd., said on
Dec. 3. Rio mines diamonds in Zimbabwe, Sinosteel produces
chrome and Metallon is a gold miner.  Zimplats shares have declined 29 percent this year, falling
to A$8.50 in Sydney. Impala, which has a bigger operation in
South Africa, climbed 1 percent to 167.70 rand by the close in
Johannesburg today, paring its retreat this year to 0.2 percent.  “Preference will be given to small-scale miners since they
are the ones who extensively lobbied government compared to
established miners, although their considerations are also being
looked at,” Chimanikire said.  Finance Minister  Tendai Biti  was not immediately available
for comment when his office was called by Bloomberg. The Chamber
of Mines of Zimbabwe’s chief executive officer and chief
economist, who are authorized to speak on behalf of the
organization, are on leave, according to an official at the
chamber who couldn’t be identified in line with its policy.  Zimbabwe earned $1.6 billion from mineral production from
January to October, the chamber said in a Dec. 11 statement. The
southern African country produced 12.48 metric tons of gold in
the period, generating $657.6 million, while platinum output of
9.21 tons earned $404.7 million, the chamber said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  