-- ‘Iron Man 3’ Delivers $174.1 Million Hit to Start Summer
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-05-06T22:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/-iron-man-3-is-2nd-best-opener-with-175-3-million-in-sales.html
“ Iron Man  3” burst into theaters
with $174.1 million in U.S. and Canadian ticket sales, giving
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Marvel division its second straight mega-hit
to start a summer movie season.  The opening-weekend haul for the superhero film starring
Robert Downey Jr. was the second-biggest of all time, behind
“Marvel’s The Avengers” in May 2012, researcher Holllywood.com
Box-Office said today in a statement. With $504.8 million in
international receipts, “Iron Man 3” has collected $678.9
million worldwide in 12 days of release, more than either
earlier “Iron Man” generated in its entire theater run.  The performance highlights Disney’s multifilm, multiprong
strategy for Marvel, acquired in December 2009 for $4.2 billion,
according to David Hollis, executive vice president for motion
picture distribution. He credited earlier Marvel pictures that
paved the way with fans, characters interwoven among movies and
the marketing muscle that Burbank, California-based Disney, the
world’s largest entertainment company, brings with its theme
parks, TV networks and retail stores.  “It was a very deliberate strategy how they created the
unique overlaps and intertwined the characters,” Hollis said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “The response has been
nothing short of extraordinary.”  Disney’s approach has led moviegoers to consider “Iron Man
3” as a sequel to “The Avengers,” last May’s superhero
ensemble that  took in  $1.51 billion at the global box office,
rather than as a follow-up to “Iron Man” and “Iron Man 2,”
according to Phil Contrino, chief analyst for BoxOffice.com.  Armored Suit  In the film, the ingenuity and confidence of Downey’s
billionaire industrialist character, Tony Stark, are tested
after a surprise attack destroys his laboratory and the armored
suits he uses to fight villains.  Ben Kingsley stars as The Mandarin, an embittered genius
who gains access to advanced technologies. Don Cheadle returns
as Stark’s friend, James Rhodes, and  Gwyneth Paltrow  reprises
her role as Pepper Potts.  The success of “Iron Man 3” should carry over to “Thor:
The Dark World,” set for release in November, and the next
“Avengers,” Hollis said. The “branded tent-pole” film
strategy limits Disney’s theatrical risk by focusing on pictures
the audience is familiar with, and provides content for Disney’s
other divisions, he said.  “Momentum begets momentum,” Hollis said. “They’re all
tied together and they all will be higher.”  In addition to “Thor” and the planned 2015 sequel to
“The Avengers,” Disney’s Marvel slate includes an April 2014
“Captain America” sequel, and “Ant-Man” in 2015, according
to Box Office Mojo.  Summer Prospects  The strong debut for “Iron Man 3” also gives a lift to
Hollywood at the start of summer, after an 11 percent decline in
domestic ticket sales and attendance so far this year.  “If you can start off in May with a gigantic film like
this, you’ve got tens of millions of people exposed to trailers
and other materials for ‘‘World War Z,’’ ‘‘After Earth’’ and so
on,” said Gitesh Pandya, chief executive officer of
Boxofficeguru.com. “It’s a very positive indicator that we’re
going to have a very strong summer season.’  More than 20 films are projected to gross $100 million or
more domestically this summer, up from 12 a year earlier,
according to Bloomberg Industries research.  The lineup includes a new ‘‘ Star Trek ” from  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s
 Paramount Pictures , “Man of Steel” and a third “Hangover”
from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  Warner Bros ., and “The Wolverine,”
part of the Marvel “X-Men” series from News Corp.’s Fox.  International Receipts  Pandya, who had expected “Iron Man 3” to sell $165
million in tickets this past weekend, is now forecasting that
the movie will gross more than $400 million in North America and
$1.3 billion worldwide, based on the opening and favorable word
of mouth. That would put it in the top five of all time,
according to Box Office Mojo  rankings .  The movie, shot partially in  China , is on pace to do
slightly better than “The Avengers” outside of  North America ,
according to Hollis. The opening day set records in 10
countries, including  Russia  and in China, where Disney and
partner DMG Entertainment released a tailored version with more
footage with well-known local stars.  Some 55 percent of domestic “Iron Man 3” theatergoers
were over 25 years old and the single-biggest group of attendees
was couples, according to Hollis. Family attendance, at 27
percent, exceeded that of “The Avengers” 24 percent,
indicating the picture had a broad appeal, he said.  Imax Revenue  Showings at theaters that use  Imax Corp. (IMX) ’s large-screen
technology grossed about $28.6 million worldwide over the
weekend, Imax said today in a statement.  Imax, based in Mississauga, Ontario, was little changed at
$27.80 today in  New York .  Regal Entertainment Group (RGC) , the largest
U.S. theater operator, slipped 1.4 percent to $18.46. Disney
advanced 0.4 percent to an all-time closing high of $65.06.  Expectations for “Iron Man 3” were strong enough that
Disney used the debut to seek a bigger share of the revenue from
from cinema owners, prompting a public showdown that ended just
a week before the opening. Hollis declined to discuss details of
the negotiations.  “The magnitude of a gross like this is extraordinary for
everyone’s bottom line,” Hollis said.  Disney Acquisitions  Disney Chairman and CEO  Robert Iger  has spent more than $15
billion since 2006, purchasing animation studio Pixar, comic
book publisher Marvel Entertainment and Lucasfilm Ltd., home of
“ Star Wars .”  The company has reduced the number of movies it releases to
concentrate on well-known pictures from those studios or
familiar content such as July’s “The Lone Ranger,” starring
 Johnny Depp .  The approach gives Disney the chance to become the first
studio to generate more than $2 billion in annual domestic
ticket receipts in 2015, said  Paul Sweeney , director of North
American Research at Bloomberg Industries, citing “Star Wars”
and multiple Marvel films. The company will also have a Pixar
movie, “Finding Dory,” and a “Pirates of the Caribbean,”
based on Box Office Mojo’s  list  of upcoming releases.  “Historically, Disney’s live action business has been a
laggard,” Sweeney said. “They chose to fix it via acquisition.
I think we are really going to see the fruits of this strategy
in 2015.”  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell to $210.9 million
from $249.7 million a year earlier, Hollywood.com said.
Attendance is down 11 percent year to date.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for May
to May 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  