-- ADCB Raised at JPMorgan on Cutting Low-Quality Assets Exposure
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 2013-05-05T05:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/adcb-raised-at-jpmorgan-on-cutting-low-quality-assets-exposure.html
Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC, (ADCB)  the
third-biggest lender by assets in the  United Arab Emirates , was
raised to overweight at JPMorgan Chase & Co. after it cut
exposure to low quality assets.  “ADCB management has commendably turned around the
franchise over the last two-three years by cleaning up the asset
book, prudently managing liquidity while conserving spreads
better versus regional peers and strengthening the capital base
by disposal of non-core assets,” analysts including Naresh Bilandani wrote in a research report. This has made “the
business model much simpler -– simplicity receives a plus from
bank investors in the current regulatory scenario.”  ADCB said last week it settled lawsuits against Morgan
Stanley,  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service Inc. and
others over its purchase of Cheyne SIV notes. The bank reported
a 4 percent increase in  first-quarter profit  to 830 million
dirhams ($226 million), beating analysts’ estimates.  JPMorgan raised the recommendation from neutral and
increased the price estimate to 5.50 dirhams from 5 dirhams. The
 stock  closed at 4.61 dirhams last week. It has surged 55 percent
this year, outpacing the 30 percent climb for  Abu Dhabi ’s ADX
Banks Index.  JPMorgan also raised the price estimate of  First Gulf Bank, (FGB) 
its top pick among banks in the  Middle East  and North Africa, to
18 dirhams from 13.50 dirhams. The overweight recommendation was
maintained.  The stock  has risen 25 percent this year to 14.55
dirhams last week.  National Bank of Abu Dhabi,  the U.A.E.’s biggest bank by
assets, was cut to neutral from overweight at JPMorgan, saying
the shares are “trading close to their June 2014 fair value and
the relative valuation of NBAD looking stretched versus peer
regional names.”  The stock  gained 31 percent this year to 12.25
dirhams last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  