-- Africa Enthralls Goldman With Record Bond Sales: Credit Markets
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-05-06T15:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/africa-enthralls-goldman-with-record-bond-sales-credit-markets.html
Sub-Saharan African nations outside
 South Africa  are selling $7 billion of debt this year, more than
in the past five years combined, as  yields  more than double
those of Treasuries lure investors repelled in the past by
violence and corruption.  With the International Monetary Fund forecasting growth in
sub-Saharan  Africa  to outpace all regions except emerging Asia
in 2013, eight countries from  Nigeria  to Kenya have sold or plan
to offer record amounts of bonds overseas. Average yields on
African  debt  fell 88 basis points in the past 12 months to 4.35
percent, versus 1.75 percent for 10-year Treasuries, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Africa is captivating bondholders as governments take
advantage of record-low  interest rates  to fund infrastructure
projects, such as the construction of roads, railways, ports and
hydropower plants. Policy makers in the world’s poorest
continent of more than a billion people are seeking to reduce
reliance on donor aid by improving tax collection and
diversifying their commodities-dependent economies.  “It’s a hugely exciting story,”  Jim O’Neill , the chairman
of Goldman Sachs Asset Management who plans to retire this year,
said in an April 23 interview with Bloomberg Television in
London. “The only thing one has to be a little bit careful of
are many of those markets are still very undeveloped and
suddenly there’s a lot of people around the world regarding
Africa to be sort of fashionable and trendy.”  Bond Plans  Nigeria, sub-Saharan Africa’s largest oil producer, plans
to offer $1 billion of Eurobonds this year and a $500 million
diaspora bond, Minister of State for Finance Yerima Ngama said
in an interview in London on Feb. 5. Kenya, East Africa’s
largest economy, expects to sell sovereign bonds by September,
raising as much as $1 billion, Finance Minister Robinson Githae
told reporters in the nation’s capital of Nairobi on March 11.  Tanzania has enlisted New York-based Citigroup Inc. to help
it get a  credit rating  before issuing a maiden Eurobond of at
least $500 million by year-end. East Africa’s second-largest
economy attracted $2.5 billion of bids for a private offering of
$600 million in debt in March, Finance Minister William Mgimwa
said March 19 in an interview in  Dar es Salaam .  Angola plans to sell $2 billion this year after a $1
billion private sale in 2012,  VTB Bank OJSC (VTBR)  Chairman Andrey Kostin, who helped arrange the first issuance, said by telephone
Oct. 31 after meeting President Jose Eduardo dos Santos in
Luanda. Miguel Bastos de Almeida, a spokesman for the minister
of finance, said May 3 he couldn’t comment on debt plans.  ‘Significant Potential’  Uganda and Mozambique may also sell foreign-currency bonds
of more than $500 million each over the next few years, Moody’s
Investors Service said in a report released in October.  “We see significant potential in Africa,” Kristin Lindow,
a sovereign analyst at Moody’s in New York, said in an e-mailed
reply to questions May 3. “Investors’ search for portfolio
diversity as well as yield contributes to high demand for
initial offerings from issuers in a frontier region with
demonstrated growth potential.”  While sub-Saharan Africa is getting a fresh look from
investors, 11 nations count among the 25 most corrupt of 174
countries measured by Berlin-based  Transparency International .
Nigeria and Kenya rank 139th, Angola 157th and the  Democratic
Republic  of Congo 160th. Nigerian Central Bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said in March Africa’s second-largest economy remains
plagued by corruption.  Political Risks  “The current conditions of a lot of liquidity out there is
not going to last forever, but these political risks that are
there and perhaps being under-appreciated are not going away,”
Mark Rosenberg, a senior Africa analyst at Eurasia Group, said
by telephone from New York on April 19. “There are headwinds in
all these countries. When the money dries up the risks will
still be there.”  Ivory Coast , the world’s biggest cocoa producer, defaulted
on dollar bonds two years ago after ex-leader  Laurent Gbagbo 
refused to cede power to  Alassane Ouattara . Zambian President
 Michael Sata  fired the governor of the central bank and its
board, reversed a foreign takeover of a bank and halted mineral
exports within two weeks of taking office in September 2011.  “For governments, great, don’t look a gift horse in the
mouth,”  Charles Robertson , global chief economist at
 Renaissance Capital , said in an April 25 phone interview from
London. “I still don’t believe investors are getting risk-adjusted returns in the dollar-bond space.”  Zambian Woes  Zambia and Nigeria are still dependent on single
commodities for government revenue. Qua Iboe, one of Nigeria’s
main export grades of crude oil, has declined 13 percent since
reaching a 10-month high in February. Copper, which accounts for
80 percent of Zambia’s export revenue, posted its biggest
monthly decline since May 2012 last month.  Yields on Zambian bonds due September 2022 have jumped 20
basis points, or 0.2 percentage point, in 2013 to a record 5.66
percent May 3. Lawmakers are seeking to lift immunity from
prosecution against former President  Rupiah Banda , who is
accused of abusing his authority, a charge he denies. Zambia
aims to borrow another $1 billion overseas this year, Deputy
Finance Minister Miles Sampa said by phone April 16.  While rates for Zambia have been rising, yields for
benchmark dollar-denominated debt issued by Nigeria, Gabon,
Ghana, Ivory Coast, Namibia, the Congo, Senegal and the
Seychelles have declined this year.  ‘Money Plentiful’  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation, has seen yields on
its existing $500 million of dollar debt due 2021 drop 274 basis
points since their January 2011 sale to 4.05 percent on May 3,
down from a peak of 7.30 percent in October 2011.  Ghana, which has seen yields on its $750 million of
Eurobonds due October 2017 fall 343 basis points to 4.82 percent
since their October 2007 issue, plans to sell more than $1
billion in dollar debt this year, according to two people with
knowledge of the plans. Borrowing costs on Gabon’s $1 billion
dollar bonds maturing December 2017 have fallen 478 basis points
to 3.13 percent since their December 2007 sale.  Rwanda, whose economy is growing at an annual pace of more
than 7 percent just 19 years after a genocide in the country
killed about 800,000 people, raised $400 million in a debut
Eurobond last month, at a 6.875 percent coupon. Yields on the
10-year notes, which lured demand of $3.5 billion, were
unchanged at 6.91 percent by 2:48 p.m. in Kigali, the capital.  Debt Canceled  “Money is plentiful and investors are keen to pick up
yield given that yields are internationally very low,” Giulia Pellegrini, a sub-Saharan Africa economist at JPMorgan, said by
phone from London on April 22. “Some of these countries have
made improvements in terms of macroeconomic stability, to some
extent economic diversification.”  The  World Bank  and IMF seven years ago began canceling $37
billion of debt owed by the world’s poorest countries including
Rwanda and Tanzania, Zambia and Uganda. More than half the
continent’s population lives on less than $1.25 a day, according
to the World Bank.  Programs of debt forgiveness have helped 45 African nations
from Angola to Zambia cut debt to about 42 percent of gross
domestic product this year from an average 120 percent in 2000,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and IMF  estimates . South
African debt is forecast by Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  to
peak at 40 percent of GDP in 2016 compared with more than 100
percent for the U.S. and an average 93 percent in the euro-area.  Roads, Power  Sub-Saharan Africa needs more than $93 billion a year to
overcome inadequate road networks and power and water shortages
that shave at least 2 percentage points off  economic growth 
annually, according to the World Bank. The IMF  estimates  the
region will post growth rates of 5.6 percent in 2013, faster
than the 1.2 percent expansion in the developed world, according
to the Washington-based lender’s World Economic Outlook report
released last month.  “A combination of a solid regional growth outlook and
improving governance levels suggests that yields should remain
reasonably well anchored,” Shilan Shah, an Africa economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in London, wrote in an April 30 report.
“This is likely to prompt a number of other countries to tap
international markets.”  Default Swaps  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. fell. The Markit CDX
North American Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreased 0.18 basis point to a mid-price of 71.4 basis points
as of 11:48 a.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, increased 0.62 basis point to 14.45 basis
points as of 11:46 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Bonds of Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America
Corp. are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers today, accounting for 4.1 percent of the
volume of dealer trades of $1 million or more as of 11:49 a.m.
in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja, Nigeria, at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  