-- Alibaba Seen Avoiding Facebook Flop With IPO Below $100 Billion
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-05-06T10:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/alibaba-seen-avoiding-facebook-flop-with-ipo-below-100-billion.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. doesn’t
want to be the next Facebook Inc. -- at least for its
prospective initial public offering. The world’s biggest online
retailer is considering a more conservative valuation than what
the social-networking company achieved last year, a person
familiar with the situation said.  While Alibaba, based in Hangzhou,  China , has said it has no
timetable for an IPO, analysts are anticipating an offering this
year or next. Proceeds from the IPO would be used along with
additional cash to buy back stock held by  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , said the
person, who asked not to be named because the plans are private.  Alibaba, which has made Jack Ma a billionaire since he
founded the company in 1999, is already in the early stages of a
Facebook-like speculative fever over its valuation. With revenue
projected to increase about 59 percent this year, echoing
Facebook estimates at the time of its IPO, some analysts have
said Alibaba could be valued at as much as $100 billion -- right
around the $104 billion price tag Facebook fetched in its
offering.  While investors may clamor to own a piece of the world’s
biggest e-commerce platform, that kind of price could produce
disgruntled shareholders and a legacy of ill will if the stock
drops -- the same fate that befell Facebook, which went on to
lose half of its market value. Investors, who have seen the
most-traded U.S.-listed  Chinese stocks  fall 6.8 percent this
year while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has rallied 13
percent to a record, also need to be comfortable with the price.  ‘Irreplaceable’ Business  A more reasonable valuation might be about $62.5 billion,
the median of eight estimates by investment banks and research
firms since February, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s 84 times the estimate of last year’s net income by Morgan
Stanley analysts. Facebook’s IPO valued the company at 107 times
the previous year’s net income, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “If investors want to buy into the future, Alibaba’s
growth potential and dominant status in China’s e-commerce
business is irreplaceable,” said Alex Wang Tingting, a Beijing-
based analyst at Internet consulting group iResearch.
“Investors will find Alibaba very attractive.”  The company has no timetable for an IPO, Alibaba spokesman
John Spelich said by phone. Ma, the executive chairman, said
last year the company may go public within five years. Jonathan Lu will replace Ma as chief executive officer this month. It’s
not known how much of the company might be listed.  Online Bazaar  Alibaba doesn’t sell merchandise itself. Instead, it runs
platforms including Taobao Marketplace and Tmall.com that
connect retail brands with consumers, a cross between Amazon.com
Inc. and  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  The estimated value of goods sold on Alibaba
last year, everything from consumer staples to cement and
aluminum, was $180 billion, about triple those sold through
Amazon, said Eric Qiu, analyst at Guosen Securities Co. in Hong
Kong.  Even at the smaller $62.5 billion valuation, Alibaba’s
price relative to earnings would well exceed EBay, whose $70.4
billion market value is 27 times last year’s net income,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Amazon.com is valued at
$117 billion -- 86 times this year’s projected earnings, the
data show. Amazon recorded a net loss last year.  In a move to strengthen its mobile business, where an
increasing number of shoppers place orders, Alibaba last month
said it paid $586 million for an 18 percent stake in Sina
Corp.’s Weibo unit, which is China’s largest Twitter-like
service.  Harnessing Growth  While Alibaba already dominates in China, the company may
position its IPO as a bet on gaining even deeper penetration to
harness growth, the person said. Online retailing in China more
than doubled each year from 2003 to 2011 and is projected to
more than triple to $395 billion from 2011 to 2015, according to
a McKinsey & Co.  report  in March. China had 564 million  Internet
users  at the end of 2012, 10 percent more than a year earlier,
according to the government-run China Internet Network
Information Center.  Alibaba has seen up-close the travails of an overpriced IPO.
Its Alibaba.com business-to-business unit went public in 2007 at
a multiple of 54 times bankers’ projections of the following
year’s earnings before accounting for stock-based compensation,
and the stock almost tripled on its debut before trading as much
as 72 percent below the IPO price.  Alibaba.com  While revenue more than tripled during Alibaba.com’s run as
a public company, the stock lost value as the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index (HSI)  plunged to a four-year low in 2008. Five years after
the IPO, Alibaba bought minority shareholders out for $2.5
billion, valuing the stock at about 19 times the previous year’s
 net income , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Alibaba.com “wasn’t exactly a stock market darling,” said
Josef Schuster, founder of Chicago-based IPOX Schuster LLC,
which oversees about $1.3 billion. “So they want to be careful,
I’m sure.”  Most crucial to a successful IPO will be resisting
temptations to let pre-IPO hype boost the price to an
unreasonable level.  “If they list, it will be the largest IPO this year,”
said Guosen’s Qiu, who said Alibaba is worth about $100 billion.  A $100 billion Alibaba valuation would price the company at
134 times last year’s net income, based on Morgan Stanley
estimates.  The $100 billion valuation “doesn’t make sense,” said
Schuster. “They need institutions for such a large deal, and
institutions are learning from the Facebook experience and
aren’t going to pay.”  Sales, Profit  Morgan Stanley estimates Alibaba’s revenue for the 12
months through December of this year may increase 59 percent
from 2012 to $7.48 billion, and another 44 percent in the next
year, Morgan Stanley analysts Jordan Monahan and  Scott Devitt 
said in a March 6 research note.  Net income this year at Alibaba may reach $2.18 billion,
more than double last year’s $746.3 million, according to the
Morgan Stanley note.  A former English teacher, Ma, 48, owns about 7.4 percent of
Alibaba Group, according to a September Hong Kong stock exchange
filing. Other big investors include DST Global, Silver Lake
Management LLC and  SoftBank Corp. (9984)   Some shareholders will sell portions of their stake while
others have told the company they would be buyers in an IPO, the
person said.  Alibaba may also take the opposite approach of Facebook in
selecting IPO underwriters, the person said. While Morgan
Stanley controlled most of the decision-making in the company’s
IPO, Alibaba plans to rely on advice from more banks.  The company is talking to exchanges and hasn’t selected its
listing venue yet, the person said. Under an agreement with
Yahoo, the stock would be listed either in  Hong Kong  or the U.S.,
according to a regulatory filing.  IPO Course  Alibaba’s eventual IPO course will likely reflect the
desires of management as well as existing shareholders. Members
of the board, chaired by Ma, also include Yahoo Executive Vice
President Jacqueline Reses and SoftBank President Masayoshi Son.  The company needs money to develop its logistics, financial
and cloud-computing businesses, said Liu Shengjun, executive
deputy director of China Europe International Business School in
 Shanghai . It has used debt markets for funding in the past two
years.  Alibaba took out $4 billion in loans last year to help take
its Hong Kong-listed unit private and  buy back  $7.1 billion of
shares from Yahoo, trimming the U.S. company’s stake to  23
percent  on a fully diluted basis. This year, Alibaba agreed to
borrow $8 billion from nine banks that will be used to refinance
debt and possibly to help fund the buyback of the remaining
Yahoo stake, people familiar with the matter said May 2.  “One of the bottlenecks is that management has raised a
lot of debt to buy back shares,” Liu said. “The amount of debt
is quite substantial.”  Mobile Shopping  The company has begun several initiatives to try to capture
the mobile shopping that is taking place through smartphones and
tablet devices.  By buying a stake in Weibo, Alibaba gains access to the
company’s 46.2 million daily active users -- 75 percent of whom
access the service through mobile devices, according to Sina.  Alibaba said in April that it was working with five Chinese
handset makers to use its operating system, called AMOS, as it
takes on Google Inc. and China-based  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,
which runs a messaging service, for mobile-device users.  In addition, Alibaba is offering a credit-payment service
to provide  consumer credit  to Taobao Marketplace and Tmall.com
shoppers. The credit limit is up to 5,000  yuan  ($812) per month,
according to the company.  Social Commerce  Alibaba’s diversifications into social commerce and mobile
software may help the company keep a hold on dominance in
China’s e-commerce business as it matures. And while the
company’s track record may reassure investors, it’s the
expectation of future growth that will convince them to pay
Alibaba’s asking price, said David Tawil, the co-founder of
Maglan Capital LP, a New York-based distressed hedge fund that
manages about $50 million.  “They own this marketplace that nobody else owns, that’s
growing at a pace that nobody else is growing,” he said.
“That’s a great thing, and that’s what they lead with.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net  