-- Asian Leaders’ Tough Talk Hides Failure of Leadership
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2013-05-05T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/asian-leaders-tough-talk-hides-failure-of-leadership.html
Visiting  China  in 1928, when a rising
 Japan  had begun to prey on its neighbor, the Japanese poet Akiko
Yosano took a surprisingly broad-minded view of anti-Japanese
passion among the Chinese: “It’s surely frightful from the
imperialists’ point of view,” she wrote in her  travelogue , “but
for the Chinese people it must be celebrated in the name of
humanity.”  Writing last year in the Asahi Shimbun, as anti-Japanese
rioting erupted in China, the writer Haruki Murakami had a
wholly unsympathetic  take  on the same phenomenon. He assailed
the “cheap alcohol” of nationalism that “makes you speak loudly
and act rudely” and leaves you “with nothing but an awful
headache the next morning.”  I was recently reminded of these contrasting responses, as
Chinese and Korean leaders protested high-profile Japanese
visits to  Tokyo ’s Yasukuni Shrine, which commemorates, among
others, Japanese indicted for  war crimes  during Japan’s early
20th-century invasions and occupations of China and  Korea .  The South Korean foreign minister canceled his visit to
Japan. Japan’s conservative Prime Minister Shinzo Abe then
caused further outrage by appearing to question whether Japan
had actually invaded its neighboring countries.  Korea Boiling  Abe’s remarks were never likely to go down well in Korea,
where anti-Japanese sentiments are kept on the boil by the issue
of “comfort women” forced into sexual slavery by the Japanese in
their occupation of Asia during World War II.  But the reaction in China, where Abe’s grandfather Nobusuke Kishi was accused of employing Chinese as slave labor in the
1930s, was also predictably fierce.  Undaunted, Abe threatened a robust military response by
Japan to any Chinese presence on the Senkaku Islands.  This dangerous diplomatic brinkmanship, which could spark
war, cannot be grasped without reference to  Asia ’s tormented
history in the first half of the 20th century, when Japanese
imperialists sought to turn a large part of the Asian mainland
into a resource for their hungry economy.  But the exploration of “ancient enmities” can only take us
part of the way in understanding the real sources and potential
of conflict today. It is always worth asking about resurgent
nationalisms or freshly ignited tempers over territorial
disputes: Why now?  When in the 1920s Akiko Yosano wrote benevolently about the
nascent Chinese sense of nationality, it seemed essential to the
survival of a country ravaged by civil war and threatened by
Japanese imperialism. But why have anti-Japanese sentiments
resurfaced in 2013 when Japan is trying to recover from two lost
decades and China seems to have surpassed its old rival’s
economic and political power?  A plausible explanation of the fresh outbreaks of
nationalism in  East Asia  must necessarily begin with internal
politics and the vulnerability of rulers.  It may seem strange today but  Mao Zedong  discouraged public
discourse about the Japanese invasion and waived reparations.
During his reign, “the Rape of Nanking” was far from becoming
Chinese shorthand for Japanese brutality.  The People’s Republic of China sought diplomatic
recognition from Japan. Furthermore, the communists in the 1950s
and 1960s already had a bogey: the nationalists in  Taiwan  and
Western imperialists worldwide.  Economic Distraction  China’s troubled history with Japan came to be
reinterpreted, as the historian  Rana Mitter  shows in his
forthcoming book on the Sino-Japanese War, in the post-Mao era.
This was when communist leaders, ushering their country into a
market economy, first began to face the problems of uneven
growth, which now included social unrest on a huge scale.  They became desperate to boost their credibility after the
killings of unarmed protestors near  Tiananmen Square  in 1989,
and images of the perfidious and vicious Japanese came in handy.
The commemoration of the Sino-Japanese War is now central to the
post-Cold War Chinese strategy of finding new foils
internationally and fresh ideological legitimacy at home.  And it can claim some success: Chinese nationalists, both
virtual and real, have been a force to reckon with since NATO’s
accidental bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade in 1999
sparked large demonstrations.  As in China, anti-Japanese nationalism in  South Korea  has a
potentially large constituency and is a touchstone of national
identity. But it coexists in uneasy symbiosis with extreme
inequality and unemployment -- problems created by a lopsided
national development that favored state support for big
conglomerates.  Certainly, the country’s new president, Park Geun Hye,
faces many other challenges besides a rogue neighbor to the
north and an impenitent former occupier to the east. But she,
too, may discover that in an unequal and fractious country,
anti-Japanese nationalism remains the best way to orchestrate
national unity.  Shinzo Abe is also playing a tricky domestic game that
shapes his international gambits. He has just started an
ambitious program to stem years of falling prices and reinflate
Japan’s economy.  A majority of Japanese public opinion remains opposed to
his historical revisionism. But a rising stock market and
improving business sentiment -- among other initial results of
Abenomics -- seem to have emboldened Abe, and account at least
partly for his confident diplomatic maneuvering aimed at the
Chinese.  But Abe still needs Chinese and Korean tolerance for the
steadily devalued yen, and his growth strategy will suffer if
Japan’s exports to China don’t recover. Japan also seeks to
cooperate with China in dealing with the looming threat from
 North Korea .  If Abenomics turns out to be  more sizzle than steak , as the
economist and Japan watcher Richard Katz argues, economic
setbacks at home will make Abe assume a more aggressive posture
with his neighbors. Nationalism remains, despite decades of
economic and cultural globalization, the default escape mode for
politicians in trouble; and, as the events of 1914 proved,
populist amplifications of it can quickly destroy the
geopolitical equilibrium achieved by deeply interdependent
economies.  Certainly, as the centenary of World War I approaches, some
extra caution will become imperative for “politicians and
polemicists,” who, as Murakami wrote, “lavish us with this cheap
alcohol and allow things to get out of control.”  ( Pankaj Mishra  is the author of “From the Ruins of Empire:
The Revolt Against the West and the Remaking of Asia” and a
Bloomberg View columnist, based in  London  and Mashobra,  India .
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 