-- Audi to Consider Doubling Production at Mexican Factory
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-05-05T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/audi-to-consider-doubling-production-at-mexican-factory.html
Audi AG (NSU) , the world’s second-largest
maker of luxury cars, will consider doubling capacity at a plant
in Mexico to 300,000 vehicles in the longer term and adding
production in Brazil to take on global leader  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW)  in the Americas.  The new Mexico factory, which will build 150,000 of the Q5
sport-utility vehicle annually starting in 2016, has enough
space to eventually build a second model such as a Q6 SUV, Chief
Executive Officer Rupert Stadler told reporters at the
groundbreaking for the plant. The automaker will decide this
year on whether to start building cars in Brazil.  Audi’s rise to surpass  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz as the
second-biggest premium brand was chiefly fueled by its presence
in  Europe  and an early entry into  China . The Ingolstadt,
Germany-based automaker is banking on an expanded production
presence in the Americas to help gain ground in the region.  “In 2020 every seventh Audi from our worldwide production
will go” to  North America , Stadler said in a speech at the
groundbreaking ceremony in Mexico over the weekend. “Then we
have reached our goal and strengthened America as a third pillar
of our sales in addition to  Asia  and Europe.”  Audi, which accounted for more than half of parent company
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s profit last quarter, plans to locally source at
least 65 percent of the content for the factory in San Jose
Chiapa, a town between Mexico City and the port of Veracruz. The
$1.2 billion investment will create 3,800 jobs in the town, the 
CEO said.  Brazil Production  A decision on possibly producing cars in Brazil should be
made this year amid efforts by the Brazilian government to wall
off the market, said Bernd Martens, Audi’s purchasing chief.  “From a strategic point of view it would be good to be
there because the economy is developing and we believe the
number of people who can afford an entry-level premium car is
set to grow,” Martens said.  Audi is looking into producing cars using VW’s modular
toolkit system in  Brazil  and may do so on a smaller scale within
one of VW’s existing plants in the country, he said.  Audi has been making progress in recent years winning over
more American customers with a broader product line up. In the
first four months, its U.S. sales rose 15 percent to 47,343
cars. Still, that’s about half what its two main rivals sell.
Mercedes, which Audi passed globally in 2011, sold 92,822
vehicles to lead the U.S. luxury segment, while BMW delivered
88,127.  U.S. Race  BMW and Mercedes “are more established in the market, have
more dealers and entered the SUV market in the U.S. at a much
earlier stage than Audi, all of which are key advantages,” said
Tim Urquhart, a London-based analyst at IHS Automotive. “Over
the long run we are expecting Audi to take share from Mercedes-
Benz in particular and this will be helped to a degree by Q5
production beginning in Mexico.”  Audi’s U.S. sales will rise 48 percent to 206,301 vehicles
in 2018 from 139,347 last year, IHS forecasts. That compares
with a 15 percent increase during the same period to 316,479 at
Mercedes and a 20 percent gain to 338,491 at BMW.  Globally, Audi is boosted by its lead in China and Europe.
Deliveries in the first quarter rose 6.8 percent to 369,500
vehicles, trailing the BMW brand by 11,900 vehicles and widening
the gap over Mercedes to 44,600.  Profit from Audi is critical to funding Volkswagen’s
expansion strategy, which is aimed at surpassing  General Motors
Co. (GM)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  as the world’s biggest automaker.
Audi accounted for 56 percent of the Wolfsburg, Germany-based
manufacturer’s first-quarter operating profit.  Labor Costs  Volkswagen is betting on Mexico’s lower labor costs to
further pad Audi’s profit margins, which already beat BMW and
Mercedes. The VW unit reported operating profit as a percentage
of revenue of 11.1 percent in the first quarter, beating BMW’s
9.9 percent and Mercedes’s 3.3 percent.  Auto workers in Mexico are about 20 percent cheaper than in
the U.S. and  Canada , according to Luis Lozano, the lead
automotive partner at PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLP in Mexico City.
Mercedes operates a factory in  Alabama , while BMW makes SUVs in
South Carolina. Labor costs in  Mexico  are about $7 per hour,
Stadler said.  The expansion is part of Audi’s efforts to go global,
breaking out of its German-dominated production network. Until
four years ago, Audi produced 75 percent of its vehicles in the
German cities of Ingolstadt and Neckarsulm. By 2017, the share
of the German plants is forecast to fall to 45 percent as annual
production rises to 1.9 million vehicles from 1.5 million last
year, according to data from IHS Automotive.  Audi will next year for the first time produce more cars
outside  Germany  than within the country, Martens said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  