-- Austerity Not Working Amid Safe Asset Shortage, Says ANZ’s Smith
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-05-05T00:25:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/austerity-not-working-amid-safe-asset-shortage-says-anz-s-smith.html
Austerity policies designed to shrink
the size of government budgets are holding back growth in
 Europe , said  Mike Smith ,  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ) ’s chief executive officer.  High valuations for commercial banks will also persist as
long as central banks continue quantitative easing, said Smith,
the head of the country’s third-largest lender by market value,
in an interview with Australian Broadcasting Corp. television
today.  An index of Australian banks has risen to the biggest
premium to resources stocks on record, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, and ANZ’s share price has risen to more
than twice the value of its net assets for the first time since
2008 even as the growth in its net income slows.  “There is a huge amount of money chasing fewer and fewer
good quality high-yielding assets,” he said. “Obviously the
supply of good assets is in demand. That creates an increase in
price” for assets such as bank stocks.  Higher  capital requirements  intended to limit the amount of
debt being taken on by commercial banks were slowing credit
growth in Europe, and  Australia ’s financial regulator, the
Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority, should “push back a
little bit” on new banking rules being proposed in the region,
Smith said.  ‘Just Doesn’t Work’  “If you think about it, what does Europe need to get out
of the mess?  The only thing that will actually work is growth,
and if you constrain, if you take credit supply out of the
contents of Europe, how are you going to get growth?” he said.
“All of this austerity just doesn’t work, you’ve got to create
some stimulus as well.”  Non-farm employment in the U.S. picked up more than
forecast in April, the Labor Department reported May 3, sending
that country’s jobless rate to a four-year low amid growing
confidence about the country’s economic outlook.  Still, the additional liquidity created by banks in the
U.S. and U.K. expanding their balance sheets through
quantitative easing “is not going to dry up any time soon,”
even as the yield on longer-dated bonds suggests the market
anticipates rising U.S. interest rates in about 18 months’ time,
Smith said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  