-- Beware of Hysteria Over New Health-Insurance Rates
-- B y   T o p h e r   S p i r o
-- 2013-05-05T22:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/beware-of-hysteria-over-new-health-insurance-rates.html
Last month,  Maryland  made public the
premiums that health insurers want to charge next year under the
Affordable Care Act, one of the first states to do so. Premiums
for non-employer health-insurance coverage were eye-popping,
with a proposed average increase of 25 percent.  As insurers submit their proposals in every state this
spring, a pattern of such large premium increases may emerge.
And opponents of the 2010 health-care law will pounce. But the
news media and the public shouldn’t succumb to their hysteria.  The proposed premium increases in Maryland were driven by a
projection of the health status of the insured population, known
as morbidity. Because the health-care law guarantees all sick
people access to insurance, the pool of insured people could
become less healthy overall, increasing expected costs.  This is the same reason that a recent report by the Society
of Actuaries projected a 32 percent increase in average costs
for non-employer insurance coverage nationwide. (The authors of
the report are affiliated with companies owned by UnitedHealth
Group Inc., a major insurer.) But this projection takes into
account only one factor that influences costs.  A more comprehensive analysis was recently conducted for
Covered  California , the state’s new health-insurance
marketplace. California is among the states where current
insurance market protections are the weakest -- and where the
health-care law will have the most impact.  The law’s market protections guarantee access to insurance
to people who are ill or who have pre-existing conditions, and
they prohibit insurers from charging them higher rates. They
also limit how much more insurers can charge older people versus
younger people. In California, these protections are projected
to increase premiums by an average of 14 percent.  More Coverage  Other reforms under the health-care law require insurers to
provide greater coverage -- for example, by paying for
prescription drugs, mental health care, maternity care and other
essential benefits. In California, this additional coverage is
projected to increase premiums by another 17 percent.  Do these projections mean that Californians can expect to
pay 31 percent more under the health-care law? No. The
projections don’t involve employer-provided coverage, which 89
percent of privately insured Californians have. And most people
with non-employer coverage will pay much less for better
coverage.  How can this be? For starters, people who make less than
400 percent of the federal poverty level -- up to $94,000 for a
family -- will get tax credits that reduce their average premium
costs by more than 65 percent.  What’s more, premiums aren’t consumers’ only costs; they
also have deductibles, co-insurance and co-payments. While
providing more coverage increases premiums, it lowers out-of-pocket costs. And to help with these, the health-care law
provides subsidies for low-income people.  In California, the Affordable Care Act is expected to lower
total health-care costs by an average of more than 40 percent
for most people who now have non-employer coverage.  The benefits will be even greater for people who are
currently uninsured, who have been offered Swiss cheese
insurance, who were priced out of the market or who were denied
insurance altogether. A narrow focus on premium changes ignores
the millions of Americans who have been shut out of a
dysfunctional market.  Premium proposals are just that: starting bids that will be
reviewed by state and federal regulators, who should heighten
their scrutiny. Fortunately, by limiting profits and
administrative costs, the health-care law helps recoup any
excessive premiums. This protection has already returned more
than $1 billion to consumers.  When comparing premiums before and after the health-care
law, we also shouldn’t lose sight of the benefits of improved
coverage and insurance market protections. A plan that covers
 prescription drugs  is very different from one that doesn’t;
comparing their prices is like comparing apples and oranges.  More important, when people get sick or are diagnosed with
a medical condition, or just grow older, their premiums will now
remain stable. That security has real value -- even to the
fraction of high-income, young and healthy people who may pay
more.  (Topher Spiro is the vice president for health policy at
the Center for American Progress. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Topher Spiro at  tspiro@americanprogress.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 