-- Boston Bombing Suspects Re-Ignite Terrorist Trial Debate
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-05-05T15:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/boston-bombing-suspects-re-ignite-terrorist-trial-debate.html
Two brothers suspected in the  Boston
Marathon bombings  are prompting renewed debate about how the
U.S. should prosecute cases of domestic terrorism and whether
the incidents are tied to a broader threat.  “We are still in a global war against radical Islamic
jihadists,” Representative Tom Cotton, an Arkansas Republican
and veteran of the wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan , said today on
NBC’s “Meet the Press.” The Obama administration is wrongfully
“putting us back in a law enforcement model” to handle the
suspects, he said.  Deliberations over whether intelligence officials missed
clues that could have prevented the highest-profile terrorist
attack on U.S. soil since Sept. 11, 2001, are occurring as
authorities investigate whether the suspects had help in
planning the April 15 bombing that killed three people and
wounded more than 260.  Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, was killed in a shootout with police
on April 19. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, was captured by authorities
later that day after a manhunt that paralyzed the  Boston 
metropolitan area. He was found hiding in a boat in the backyard
of a home in Watertown, Massachusetts, and taken to the hospital
for treatment of multiple gunshot wounds.  “Not all of these plots are associated in any way with al-
Qaeda training,”  Jane Harman , president and chief executive
officer of the Woodrow Wilson Center for International Scholars,
a Washington policy group, said on NBC. Harman is a former
Democratic congresswoman from  California  who served as the
ranking member on the House Intelligence Committee.  Internet Research  Individual attacks such as the Boston bombings can be
planned through Internet research and without formal al-Qaeda
ties, she said.  Lawmakers briefed by federal law-enforcement officials have
said the Tsarnaev brothers, ethnic Chechens who came to the U.S.
with their parents as refugees from  Russia ’s Caucasus region,
were motivated by radical Islam they learned mostly over the
Internet.  One thing Congress must do to protect the U.S. is to change
the “broken-down” immigration system, Senator  Richard Durbin 
of  Illinois , the chamber’s second-ranking Democrat, said on
CNN’s “ State of the Union .”  Tamerlan Tsarnaev last year visited Dagestan, the center of
separatist violence in the Caucasus region, for six months,
according to his father. The trip is a subject of scrutiny as
investigators attempt to reconstruct events leading to the
Boston bombing.  Tracking Visas  The U.S. needs to track visas “so that we know not only
when they arrive but when they leave,” Durbin said. The Senate
Judiciary Committee will begin considering bipartisan
immigration legislation this week.  “There had to be assistance” in planning the bombing,
Representative  Peter King , a  New York  Republican and member of
the House Intelligence and Homeland Security Committees, said on
the CNN program.  King said it was “difficult to believe” that the Tsarnaev
brothers could have carried out the attack by themselves.
Training overseas or help from people in the U.S was probably
involved, he said.  Investigators are scrutinizing Katherine Russell, the widow
of Tamerlan Tsarnaev, who lived in a Cambridge,  Massachusetts ,
apartment with him and their 2-year-old daughter. The younger
suspect, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, told interrogators that the
pressure-cooker bombs used in the attack were assembled at the
older brother’s apartment, according to a U.S. official who was
briefed on the questioning and asked not to be identified.  Russell’s lawyer, Amato DeLuca, has said his client is
cooperating with the investigation.  Death Penalty  The younger Tsarnaev, now held at a federal prison medical
center west of Boston, is charged with using and conspiring to
use a weapon of mass destruction and may face the death penalty
if convicted.  Dzhokhar Tsarnaev told investigators the original plan was
to target the city’s July 4 celebration and that the brothers
attacked last month’s race after building their bombs faster
than expected, according to an official briefed on the matter.  Three 19-year-old college friends of the younger Tsarnaev
have been taken into custody. Two have been charged with
conspiring to obstruct justice by removing items from Tsarnaev’s
dormitory room, and one was charged with willfully making false
statements to investigators.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  