-- Nets Remove Carlesimo as Coach After Playoff Exit to Bulls
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-05-05T17:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/bulls-beat-nets-99-93-in-game-7-to-advance-to-nba-semifinals.html
The  Brooklyn  Nets said P.J. Carlesimo
won’t return as coach next season, a day after the team was
eliminated from the National Basketball Association playoffs.  Carlesimo had a 35-19 record and guided Brooklyn to the
postseason for the first time since 2007. He was named interim
coach on Dec. 27 when Avery Johnson was fired following 10
defeats in 13 games. The search for a new coach will begin
immediately, the Nets said in an e-mailed news release today.  The Chicago Bulls last night beat the Nets in a decisive
seventh game to advance to the second round of the playoffs.  “The Brooklyn Nets organization would like to thank P.J.
for his efforts with the team in his roles as both head coach
and assistant, and for his contributions to the team’s success
both on and off the court,” Nets General Manager Billy King
said in the release.  Carlesimo was coach of the SuperSonics for their last
season in  Seattle  and first year in Oklahoma City, as the
Thunder. He also spent three seasons at both the Portland Trail
Blazers and the Golden State Warriors, and has a 239-315 record
in the regular season and a 6-13 mark in the playoffs.  Joakim Noah had 24 points and 14 rebounds as the Bulls beat
the Nets 99-93 yesterday. Chicago will travel to Miami to meet
the Heat tomorrow in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference
semifinal series.  “It’s disappointing,” the Nets’ Deron Williams said. “We
felt like this was our series, but they came out and played a
great game.”  The Nets moved this season to the $1 billion Barclays
Center in Brooklyn from  Newark , New Jersey.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net  