-- Chelsea Beats Manchester Utd.; Liverpool Ties Everton 0-0
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-05-05T23:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/chelsea-beats-manchester-utd-liverpool-ties-everton-0-0.html
Chelsea boosted its chances of a top-
four finish in soccer’s Premier League with a 1-0 win at
champion Manchester United. Liverpool and Everton drew 0-0 in
the Merseyside derby.  Juan Mata ’s deflected shot in the 87th minute gave Chelsea
the win yesterday against the Red Devils, who last month secured
their record-extending 20th English league title. United’s
Rafael was red-carded in the 89th minute for kicking  David Luiz .  The victory put third-place Chelsea one point ahead of
Arsenal having played a game fewer than the Gunners. The top
four teams qualify for the Champions League, and Chelsea hosts
fifth-place Tottenham in two days.  “It was a massive win,” Chelsea interim manager  Rafael Benitez  said in comments on his team’s website. “We knew we had
to get six or seven points to guarantee finishing in the top
four. When the goal came it was a massive step forward for us.”  United, which leads the standings with 85 points followed
by Manchester City on 72, was the less energetic team at Old
Trafford as Chelsea chased a place in Europe’s elite club
competition.  Antonio Valencia  and Tom Cleverley shot over the crossbar
for United and  Robin van Persie  put the ball wide of goal.
Chelsea’s Oscar had his shot pushed on to a post by goalkeeper
Anders Lindegaard, and Demba Ba and Victor Moses failed to
convert opportunities.  United’s  Wayne Rooney  complained that Ramires fouled him in
the build-up to the goal. As play continued, Oscar passed to
Mata, whose left-foot shot went in off  Phil Jones .  “We have three more games,” Mata said in a televised
interview. “We deserve to play in the Champions League next
season. If we play together like today we can do it.”  Europa League  Chelsea has already reached the final of this season’s
Europa League, where it faces Benfica. A win against Tottenham
in two days would all but guarantee the Blues a top-four finish
because of their goal-difference superiority over Spurs, which
it leads by three points.  United manager  Alex Ferguson  bemoaned his team’s flat
performance.  “We took our foot off the pedal in a big way, there was no
edge to the game,” Ferguson said. “Chelsea deserved to win.”  Everton continued its sequence of not winning at Anfield in
the league since 1999, though prevented a home victory in
Liverpool defender  Jamie Carragher ’s last derby before retiring.  “I’m slightly disappointed,” Carragher said. “It’s a
fair result, there weren’t too many chances at either end.”  The visiting team had a second-half effort from Sylvain Distin disallowed because of a foul on goalkeeper  Jose Reina .
Everton’s Marouane Fellaini earlier volleyed Leighton Baines’s
free kick wide.  The result leaves seventh-place Liverpool with 55 points,
five behind Everton.  Sunderland-Stoke  Two days ago, Arsenal and Tottenham had 1-0 wins over
Queens Park Rangers and Southampton, respectively. Wigan won 3-2
at West Brom and Reading had a 4-2 victory at Fulham. Norwich
lost 2-1 at home to  Aston Villa , and the games between  Swansea
and Manchester City, and West Ham and Newcastle, were scoreless.  Sunderland, which is one place above the three-team
relegation spots, hosts Stoke tonight and can move five points
clear of the drop zone with a victory.  QPR and Reading are already certain to be demoted to the
second-tier Championship. Last-place QPR has 25 points, Reading
28, Wigan 35 and Sunderland 37.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  