-- China’s CNPC Defends Chengdu Chemical Plant Plan Amid Opposition
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-05T05:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/china-s-cnpc-defends-chengdu-chemical-plant-plan-amid-opposition.html
China ’s largest oil producer defended
plans for a chemical plant in southwestern Sichuan province,
saying it will improve  air quality  by providing higher-standard
oil products and curbing car-emission pollutants.  China National Petroleum Corp. has “adopted various
scientific measures” to ensure there won’t be any negative
impact on the environment from the project near the provincial
capital Chengdu, an unnamed spokesman in charge of environmental
protection at the company said in an interview  posted  yesterday
on Chinawestnews.net, a news portal affiliated with the Sichuan
government.  Thousands of police officers and security staff were
deployed in Chengdu yesterday after word spread on the Internet
about a protest against the planned facility in Pengzhou, about
40 kilometers (25 miles) north of the city, the  Associated Press 
reported. In a separate demonstration yesterday in Kunming, the
capital of neighboring Yunnan province, hundreds of people took
to the streets to oppose the construction of another chemical
plant planned by state-owned CNPC in nearby Anning, the official
 Xinhua News Agency  reported.  Calls to the press offices of the Sichuan and Yunnan
provincial governments weren’t answered today outside of normal
working hours.  Opposition to CNPC’s plans underscores growing concern that
industrial plants are damaging the environment and people’s
health. Environmental issues have replaced land disputes as the
main cause of social unrest in China, which now sees 30,000 to
50,000 so-called mass incidents every year, Chen Jiping, a
former vice general secretary of the Communist Party’s Committee
of Political and Legislative Affairs said in March.  Police Clash  Confrontation between local governments and residents over
the construction of industrial projects is increasing. Last
October, the eastern city of Ningbo halted plans to produce the
chemical paraxylene at a plant run by state-owned  China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) , also known as Sinopec, after
hundreds of residents clashed with police.  In July, the coastal city of Qidong scrapped a project that
involved building a pipeline to discharge waste from a paper
mill after thousands protested. The same month, the Shifang city
government in Sichuan halted construction of a Sichuan Hongda
Co. copper plant after police fired tear gas at demonstrators
who said the project would pollute the environment.  The plant CNPC wants to build in Pengzhou will produce
refined oil products and ethylene, according to the report on
Chinawestnews.net. The project in Anning, Yunnan, will have
annual production of 500,000 tonnes of paraxylene, a
carcinogenic chemical used in the production of polyester film
and fabrics, Xinhua said.  In a statement carried by Chinawestnews.net on May 3, CNPC
said the plant in Pengzhou has been approved by the national
environmental protection agency and the  National Development and
Reform Commission . Production won’t start until the project
meets environmental protection standards, it said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  