-- Citigroup Says Firms to Delay Deals to Cut Debt: Corporate India
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-05-06T05:06:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/citigroup-says-firms-to-delay-deals-to-cut-debt-corporate-india.html
Indian companies may defer plans to
acquire rivals and add capacity by about three years as they
focus on reducing record debt, according to Rahul Shukla,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s local head of corporate banking.  Net debt at companies, excluding banks and finance firms,
on the S&P BSE200 index more then doubled to $196 billion as on
Dec. 31 from $92 billion in 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It would take two to three years for companies to cut
their liabilities, Shukla said.  A delay in investments may stall Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram’s attempt to revive growth in  Asia ’s
third-largest economy, said Anjan Ghosh, head, corporate ratings
at the Indian partner of Moody’s Investors Service. The nation’s
central bank forecast industrial activity will remain subdued
after a gauge measuring company expenditure on machinery, shrank
in 16 out of the 20 months through February and car sales grew
at the slowest pace since 2003.  “In the past, when the government had policy
pronouncements, the corporate sector backed it, lapped it up and
put up the requisite investments,” Shukla, 44, said in an
interview in Mumbai. “Today they are saying they will not lead
but follow actual government and public capex before they go out
and do it.”  The $1.8 trillion economy expanded at a decade-low 5
percent in the 12 months to March, according to an estimate from
the statistics agency. The central bank forecasts gross domestic
product may rise 5.7 percent in the year that began April 1. The
nation has the potential to grow at 8 percent, Chidambaram said
in a speech on April 24.  Walk Out  Two years of policy paralysis before Singh appointed
Chidambaram as the finance minister in 2012 and allegations of
corruption against officials have contributed to a logjam and
deterred spending on infrastructure.  GMR Infrastructure Ltd. threatened to walk out of a highway
project in January, citing delays, while  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) ,
 India ’s biggest engineering and construction company, is seeking
to boost overseas revenue as business slows at home.  The volume of mergers and acquisitions in India dropped in
the first-quarter to $4.65 billion, the lowest since 2009. While
overseas companies have bought rivals and increased stakes in
their units, there has been no transaction larger than $500
million where Indian companies bought rivals.  ‘Major Challenge’  “Project, cash-flow uncertainty is undermining investor
sentiment,” ICICI Bank Ltd. Chief Executive Office Chanda Kochhar said in an interview with Bloomberg TV India. “Reviving
confidence is major challenge.”  A push by banks to improve bad loan ratios is also
prompting companies to focus on cutting debt, said Shukla. The
government has ordered state-run lenders to cut gross bad loan
ratio to 1 percent of total assets by March, Rajiv Takru,
secretary at department of financial services, said on April 14.
The measure was at 4 percent of total assets as of September.  State Bank of India (SBIN) , the nation’s biggest lender, last
month said it will seize the collateral pledged by  Kingfisher
Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  as the grounded carrier struggles with a 86
billion-rupee ($1.6 billion) debt pile and five years of losses.  State-run  United Bank of India (UNTDB) ’s 515 million rupee of loan
to  Bilcare Ltd. (BILC) , a medical packaging company, have been
classified as delinquent, according to an advertisement
published in the Times of India newspaper on April 8.  Debt Doubles  The lender, in the advertisement, said it reserves its
right to initiate legal action against the company. Bilcare said
 in an e-mail response that there’s a “mismatch in cash flows”
and the company is in talks with  United Bank  to revamp its debt.  Net debt at members of the BSE200 index more then doubled
in 2008 from a year earlier to $91.6 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. By 2010, that swelled to $133 billion.  “The Indian banking system, which had supported most of
the financing, has also become far stricter,” said Shukla. That
“pushes balance sheets towards deleveraging versus carrying a
lot of debt or rescheduling over a period of time. We see that
across different companies.”  Volatility in the markets is preventing companies from
selling shares and use the proceeds to pay debt. The Sensex’s
30-day  volatility  more than doubled to 15.88 on May 3 from the
year’s low on Jan. 10. The value of initial public offerings
have dropped 55 percent to 3.5 billion rupees starting January
in the worst start to a year since 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Loan Payments  Companies are refinancing to extend the tenure of their
loans amid lack of equity funding opportunities, according to
Shukla. Most are borrowing from overseas, he said.  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , India’s biggest convertible bond
defaulter, raised $647 million selling five-year bonds backed by
the State Bank of India, to repay U.S. dollar-denominated debt.
Vedanta Resources  Plc, the oil and metals producer controlled
by Indian billionaire Anil Agarwal, is looking to refinance
around $3.5 billion of loans, three people familiar with the
matter said in March.  “Ultimately you have to raise equity and deleverage
yourself,” Shukla said. “Any equity raising leads to dilution
and promoters think twice before taking that option.”  Investment Restrictions  To attract investment and boost growth before elections
next year Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government has eased
rules to allow foreign direct investment in retail and airlines.
Chidambaram said in March restrictions in about two dozen
industries from telecommunications to banking can be removed or
relaxed.  “People will wait for concrete signals before they go out
and start putting up investments,” Shukla said. “People have
to see more effects of actual implementation of these policies
to give them greater confidence.”  Etihad Airways PJSC last month became the first to purchase
a stake in an Indian carrier after Singh allowed foreign
airlines acquire stakes in local rivals. Etihad said it will
purchase 24 percent stake in Jet Airways (India) Ltd.  India on May 2 approved Ikea’s proposal to invest 102
billion rupees in the South Asian nation.  Still, projects to add new capacity has significantly
dropped, said  State Bank  Chairman Pratip Chaudhuri. The lender’s
profit probably fell 8 percent in the three months ended March
31, according to a median  survey  of 39 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. That’s the first decline in net income in seven
quarters.  “If you look at projects stuck, the numbers are
historically bad,” Elena Okorochenko, managing director for
Asia-Pacific sovereign ratings at  Standard & Poor’s , said in  New
Delhi  on May 4. “The announcements are there, the measures are
there, the figures are not yet showing that investments, and
growth generated by the investments, are picking up.”  Slowdown Spreading  The slowdown may be spreading to consumption spending, the
 Reserve Bank  of India said on May 3, as it cut its benchmark
rate to 7.25 percent from 7.5 percent. Borrowers have become
risk averse because of governance concerns and delays in
approvals, it said.  “As much as reform measures are important, necessary and
urgent, what is even more important is to implement reforms,”
 Reserve Bank of India  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said in an
interview to Bloomberg TV India on May 4. “There is need to
revise sentiment. If few large investors get cracking, that
itself will have a huge multiplier effect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  