-- Clyne Discards Everything He Once Said in Driving NAB
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-05-06T03:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/clyne-discards-everything-he-once-said-in-driving-nab.html
Cameron Clyne, catapulted to the helm
of  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  in the depths of the global
financial crisis, saw only one way out.  Throwing away the playbook he had used as a  management
consultant  advising banks to embrace risk to achieve higher
returns, Clyne adopted a more conservative approach for
 Australia ’s  largest  lender by assets. The 6-foot-6 (1.98 meters)
former rugby player  closed  an investment-banking unit, shrank
the ailing U.K. property portfolio and broke away from his
biggest competitors by luring borrowers with lower  mortgage
rates , he said in an interview last month in Sydney.  Clyne, 45, also gave up a 35th-floor office for a desk
among his  staff  at the company’s headquarters in  Melbourne  and
reached out to irate customers through radio shows.  “We are at our best when we are boring,” said Clyne, who
took over as chief executive officer in January 2009. “We are
not going to do anything spectacular. We are going to deliver
what we say to our customers.”  Under Clyne’s stewardship, NAB  shares  have climbed 62
percent, while credit-default swaps, the cost of insuring
against losses on its debt, have tumbled 44 percent. The stock
rose 0.2 percent to A$33.79 at 1:36 p.m. in Sydney today.  “Clyne has been the right man for the NAB turnaround,”
said  Angus Gluskie , Sydney-based chief investment officer at
White Funds Management Pty, which owns NAB shares. “He has
certainly been able to give the business new momentum in terms
of its position in the Australian marketplace, as well as being
able to limit the damage from some of their weaker areas.”  Worst Performer  Still, NAB is the worst performer since the end of 2008
among Australia’s four biggest banks,  trailing  Melbourne-based
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and Sydney-based
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia  and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)   Shares have been weighed down by NAB’s U.K. operations,
where mounting bad debts last year triggered the first drop in
profit since 2009. The U.K.’s foundering economy torpedoed
Clyne’s plans to sell the business or expand through
acquisitions, leading him to shrink the unit by cutting more
than 1,400 jobs starting last year.  NAB, Australia’s most valuable bank a decade ago, is now
ranked fourth. Its  return on equity , a measure of how well the
firm reinvests earnings, was 14.2 percent at the end of
September, lower than its competitors, and its net interest
margin, or the profitability of its lending operations, also
lagged behind at 2.11 percent. Earnings from its biggest unit,
lending to businesses, slid 1.5 percent in the fiscal year,
adding to investors’ concerns.  “In the last few years, they have materially
underperformed their peers,” said Simon Burge, chief investment
officer at Sydney-based Above the Index Asset Management Pty,
which owns NAB shares. The U.K. unit in particular “has just
been a noose around the bank’s neck.”  ‘Fairly Tumultuous’  Clyne, who had been running NAB’s New Zealand unit since
2007, was appointed to the bank’s top job on July 31, 2008, six
days after news of losses on credit-market investments triggered
the biggest one-day drop in its stock in 21 years.  The former PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC consultant, who had
been responsible for about 1,000 people as the firm’s youngest-
ever Australia managing partner before leaving for NAB in 2004,
faced the task of turning around a 150-year-old bank with about
40,000 employees. What followed was a “fairly tumultuous”
time, he said, describing a five-month transition that ended
when he took over from CEO  John Stewart .  “At some point, I was wondering if I would make it to the
first of January,” Clyne said, recounting working for as many
as 40 days at a stretch without a break. “You just didn’t know
how the world was going to play out.”  Paring Risk  As CEO, Clyne immediately began paring risk. He told
investors three months after taking over that his primary focus
would be on improving shareholder returns, which had been
weighed down since 2001 by losses and writedowns at a Florida
mortgage business that was subsequently sold.  Clyne cut expenses, divested assets and trimmed dividends
for the fiscal year ended in September 2009 by 25 percent to 146
cents a share. He has since increased the payout to shareholders
to 180 cents, which still trails the 194 cents returned to
investors in fiscal 2008.  He also shut the investment-banking unit, nabCapital, which
had racked up losses during the global financial crisis. Clyne
moved assets he wanted to exit -- mainly U.K. and U.S.
investments, including collateralized debt obligations,
commercial property and structured-asset-finance holdings --into
a new unit with a portfolio valued at about A$26.5 billion
($27.2 billion) at the end of March 2009.  No Disasters  Over the next 3 1/2 years, Clyne cut that portfolio by 73
percent to A$7.2 billion by the end of September 2012. The
bank’s value at risk, a measure of potential trading losses in
one day, dropped 43 percent to A$8 million by the end of
September, after climbing to A$14 million in September 2008,
according to company filings.  Those measures show that Clyne is on the right track, said
Brett le Mesurier, an analyst at BBY Ltd. in Sydney, who
recommends clients buy NAB shares.  “The best thing that has come out of his time so far as
CEO has been that there have been no new disasters,” he said.
“When you run a bank, one of the most important things is to
avoid making large mistakes, and he has managed that.”  Investor Doubts  NAB’s success in winding down positions through trading,
rather than writing down the value of the assets quickly and
digesting what could have been a $5 billion loss, has given
Clyne confidence to handle the remaining U.K. assets, he said.  He moved 5.6 billion pounds ($8.7 billion) of commercial
real estate onto NAB’s own balance sheet in October, and in
March he said the remaining U.K. operations had become
profitable. The economic climate in that country will determine
prospects for the business, which Clyne described last month as
a “work in progress.”  Investors are less convinced that his approach will work.  “Every update on that situation tends to be worse than
before,” said  Paul Xiradis , CEO of Ausbil Dexia Ltd., which
manages A$9.5 billion in assets in Sydney. “The perception is,
they are yet to get their hands around the issue.”  At home, Clyne inherited funding constraints that
threatened to crimp profitability as global  capital markets 
froze. The bank’s retail unit, which could have collected
deposits to close the gap, was instead shrinking. Clyne boosted
NAB’s share of funding from deposits to 66 percent as of
September 2012, up from 56 percent four years earlier, by
offering higher rates.  Mahogany Offices  Becoming CEO during the financial crisis affected Clyne’s
management style, he said. One of his first steps was to
relinquish the executive suite used by his predecessor on the
35th floor of a building on Melbourne’s Bourke Street. He took a
desk about 20 meters (66 feet) from the staff cafe on the third
floor of an office in the Docklands area, where executives for
the domestic operations sit.  “No one is critically inspired by a leadership 30 miles
from the frontline,” Clyne said. “They don’t want missives
from remote mahogany offices.”  The crisis also shaped how he viewed customers, he said.  “There was genuine public anger around financial
institutions,” especially in  North America  and  Europe , Clyne
said. “There was a different sort of anger here, because banks
were very profitable.”  Radio Shows  Defusing that anger and winning back customers’ trust
became a priority. Clyne has participated in six radio talk
shows, taking calls from people who ask him about issues ranging
from mortgage rates and the safety of Internet banking to NAB’s
funding of local colleges. He plans to do another show within
two months, said  Brian Walsh , a spokesman for the bank.  The focus on customers’ concerns and a drive to win market
share for NAB’s retail bank led Clyne to begin abolishing fees
on credit cards and bank accounts in his first year as CEO,
winning praise from Australia’s Treasurer,  Wayne Swan , and
forcing competitors to follow suit.  Clyne also promised clients lower rates on mortgages amid
mounting public discontent that Australia’s four largest banks,
which control about 85 percent of the A$1.1 trillion home-loan
market, were moving lockstep in raising borrowing costs.  A February 2011 advertising campaign, begun on Valentine’s
Day and featuring the lender in a mock relationship breakup with
its three competitors, helped Clyne win 1 million new clients
and boost NAB’s share of  mortgage loans  to about 15 percent from
12.8 percent in August 2009, according to filings.  Incomplete Turnaround  Still, NAB remains the third-largest  mortgage  lender in an
economy whose growth rate is set to drop to 2.5 percent this
year, according to a February central bank forecast. Mortgages
are expanding at almost the slowest pace since at least 1977,
central bank data show. Competition has increased, and gains in
market share for home loans may slow, Clyne said.  The turnaround isn’t complete. The bank in March changed
some senior managers and said it planned to cut costs by A$800
million within five years. Clyne, who was awarded A$8.8 million
in total compensation including salary,  stock options  and other
benefits for the 12 months through September, vowed to simplify
products, reduce duplication across units and invest in new
technology to reach the savings target.  First-half  results , scheduled to be announced May 9, may
help allay investor doubts. Profit probably rose 42 percent to
A$2.91 billion for the six months ended March 31, according to
the average of eight analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Clyne is growing into his position after having “tripped”
a few times, said Ausbil Dexia’s Xiradis.  “He has learned a lot, he has benefited from the
experience NAB has gone through,” the  fund manager  said. “From
here, he would be a better, more seasoned banker and can tackle
the issues far more aggressively than before.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  