-- Ernst Gets First PGA Tour Win in Playoff After Mickelson Falters
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-05-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/derek-ernst-win-wells-fargo-playoff-for-first-title-on-pga-tour.html
Rookie Derek Ernst captured his first
U.S.  PGA Tour  golf title by beating  David Lynn  in a playoff at
the Wells Fargo Championship, a tournament he entered as the
fourth alternate and with a world ranking of 1,207.  Ernst, 22, had one of the field’s four final-round birdies
at the 18th hole to join England’s Lynn at 8-under par for the
tournament at Quail Hollow Club in Charlotte,  North Carolina .
Ernst then parred the 18th in a rainy playoff to earn about $1.2
million and a two-year exemption on the PGA Tour.  “The money is money, it will come and go, but winning and
having a job and playing out here for the next two years, that’s
what I want to do,” said Ernst, who gets the final spot in this
week’s Players Championship field. “I want to play out here, so
that is the best part.”  Phil Mickelson  finished a shot back in third place.
Mickelson bogeyed the 16th and 17th holes to drop out of sole
possession of the lead and missed a 21-foot birdie attempt at
the last hole to join the playoff.  “I’m pretty bummed out,” Mickelson said. “I thought that
this was one I had in control.”  Ernst was driving to Athens,  Georgia , to play in an event
on the PGA Tour’s developmental Web.com circuit when he received
a phone call from tournament officials that he’d made the Wells
Fargo Championship field. He’s the first alternate to win a PGA
Tour title since Wes Short Jr. at the 2005 Michelin
Championship.  Ernst had made seven prior starts on the PGA Tour this
season, missing the cut for weekend play five times and
finishing in ties for 47th and 59th place in the other events.  The $9.5 million  Players Championship , the tour’s marquee
event, begins May 9 at the TPC Sawgrass in Ponte Vedra Beach,
Florida.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  