-- Do Deutsche Bank’s ‘Prettier’ Women Get the Best?
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2013-05-05T22:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/do-deutsche-bank-s-prettier-women-get-the-best-.html
Most big-name financial firms pay lip
service to diversity, peppering their websites with smiling
women and people of color who are in short supply in the mostly
white-male trading rooms and executive offices of real life.  Amid the spin, though, there’s one bank that wins plaudits
around the globe for its gender programs.  At  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , business conferences and seminars for
women attracted 5,000 of the company’s employees and clients
last year, according to the bank’s website. It has  scored  a spot
on Working Mother magazine’s “100 Best Companies” list 13
times since 1996, and was named “Best in Financial Services
Sector” by the U.K. charity Working Families, which does
research on work-life issues.  Eileen Taylor, Deutsche Bank’s global head of diversity,
said in an e-mailed statement that a program called Atlas,
started in 2009, has helped push 50 percent of the women who
have used it into broader roles.  So you have to wonder why the Frankfurt-based bank is
spending so much of its time fending off lawsuits that accuse it
of harassment, retaliation, gender bias and discrimination
against pregnant women.  In a lawsuit filed Jan. 28 in New York State Supreme Court
in  Manhattan , Yosefa Shliselberg, a director in the global
transaction banking group and 10-year Deutsche Bank veteran,
said she was called into human resources one afternoon in 2011
and told, “The business has decided to exit you.” She says it
happened two months after she complained to HR about gender
discrimination and sexual harassment.  Performance Reviews  Shliselberg, whose performance evaluations cited her
“remarkable analytic skills” and “deep understanding” of the
bank’s products, told me during an interview last month at her
lawyer’s office in New York that the bank had opened an
investigation into her effort to start -- I’m not kidding -- a
women’s initiative.  The probe found no wrongdoing, according to her complaint,
which would hardly be a shock considering she says she received
kudos for her project from everyone from her immediate boss to
Deutsche Bank’s former chief executive officer of the Americas:
“I’m very proud of you,” Seth Waugh wrote in an e-mail on Feb
11, 2011, that Shliselberg allowed me to review.  After that session in HR, Shliselberg was escorted to her
desk, where boxes had already been delivered so she could pack
and leave.  You almost wonder if there was something in the water at
the bank that can’t do enough to advocate for women. Twelve days
before Shliselberg filed her lawsuit, Deutsche Bank fired
Heather Zhao, a vice president in Deutsche Bank’s global
investment solutions group.  That axing came nine days before Zhao was scheduled to
return from maternity leave, according to her complaint filed
March 29 in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
New York. Zhao’s suit says that after she learned she was
pregnant in early 2012, she was blanketed with Neanderthal-style
remarks from men at the bank. One highlight, according to her
complaint: “Maybe I should get pregnant so I can work from
home.”  Best place for mothers, indeed.  Deutsche Bank spokeswoman Michele Allison said the bank
wouldn’t comment on pending litigation.  Not to pile on, but while we’re on the subject of
pregnancy, another employee, Kelley Voelker, was fired from her
job as a vice president on the securities-lending desk in
September. She said in an amended complaint in U.S. District
Court in October that after suing the bank for pregnancy
discrimination in September 2011, Deutsche Bank retaliated by
firing her. In a response, the bank denied it discriminated or
retaliated against Voelker.  Class Act  Deutsche Bank is still in litigation with Voelker, but
according to a transcript of a March 18 hearing in her case, two
unidentified women who considered starting a class action
reached settlements with the bank this year.  Another settlement: Latifa Bouabdillah, a former director
in London who  sued  in May 2011 in the U.K. for sex
discrimination. Her lawyer, Tim Johnson, said in an e-mail that
the terms were confidential.  As for Shliselberg, I have to wonder if her sorry fate
wasn’t somehow related to the dopey public statement of Deutsche
Bank’s former CEO Josef Ackermann, who in February 2011 said
that the bank’s executive committee would be “ more colorful and
prettier ” once it added a woman or two. Ackermann’s words led
to a media maelstrom just as Shliselberg was getting traction
for her idea to start a nonprofit group to be called Women in
Sovereign Entities.  By the time she was meeting with a bank steering committee
in  London  in April 2011, she was hearing worries that had more
than a hint of paranoia: Shliselberg told me one man at the
meeting said he was afraid that her proposed group might host an
event where women could “get out of control” and take over the
agenda.  In its response to a parallel complaint Shliselberg filed
with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, Deutsche
Bank said she had misinterpreted management’s support for her
proposal, and that she had raised her allegations of
discrimination as leverage to negotiate a cushy exit package.
Shliselberg “began neglecting her work” after she started to
focus on creating the women’s organization, the bank said.
Deutsche Bank’s decision not to sponsor her project was based on
business concerns, not discrimination, according to the
response.  It’s hard to buy the idea that the same woman who had been
praised in performance evaluations as having “excellent
communications skills” somehow went clueless when her bosses
were trying to tell her that her project for women was a no-go.
If this is the best that the “best” company for women can come
up with, the banking industry is even more hopeless than I
thought.  (Susan Antilla, who has written about Wall Street and
business for three decades and is the author of “Tales From the
Boom-Boom Room,” a book about sexual harassment at financial
companies, is a contributor to Bloomberg View. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan Antilla at   santilla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 