-- The Oil and Gold Booms Are Over
-- B y   R u c h i r   S h a r m a
-- 2013-05-05T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/the-oil-and-gold-booms-are-over.html
The wreckage caused by  China ’s great,
juddering slowdown continues to spread far beyond the country’s
shores. Although most commodities enjoyed a bounce on May 3,
after better-than-expected U.S. employment data, the plunge in
their  prices  over the past few months suggests the past decade’s
rally is truly broken.  For those of us not in the  mining industry , this is
actually good news -- one of the best signs yet that the global
economy is returning to normal.  China ’s voracious demand for every conceivable raw material
-- oil, steel, soybeans,  gold , to name a few -- once seemed to
spell a future of endlessly rising commodity prices and falling
living standards in developed nations. This was a Malthusian
vision of scarcity: Rising demand from the growing economies of
the emerging world would couple with shrinking supplies to drive
up the prices of natural resources.  Gas prices  would never come
back down; gold would cost thousands of dollars an ounce.  The response, for many international investors, was to bet
big on China. Because it is hard to buy directly into China,
many instead bought into the  commodities  that were being sucked
into the gaping maw of the country’s economy: oil from  Russia ,
iron ore from  Australia  and so on.  The China-commodity connection was born. Financial
entrepreneurs started exchange-traded funds, which allowed
individual investors to trade commodities, including silver and
gold, as if they were stocks.  Supercycle Started  For the first time, U.S. pension funds started to  allocate 
a share of their holdings to commodities. Even the  Federal
Reserve  got involved, inadvertently, by printing so much money
that a good portion of it wound up fueling speculative bets on
China and the big emerging markets, often using commodities as a
proxy.  Prices went parabolic. From 2000 to 2011, copper prices
rose 450 percent, oil prices 365 percent, and  gold prices  more
than 500 percent to a high of more than $1,900 an ounce. There
was talk of oil hitting $200 a barrel, and gold reaching $10,000
an ounce. It was a wild time, all predicated on the idea that
the rise of China had set off a commodity “supercycle” that
could keep prices high indefinitely.  Commodity prices, such as that of gold, tend to rise when
faith in the financial system is in decline and usually fall
when confidence is high. In this they resemble the politician of
whom  Winston Churchill  once said: “He has all the virtues I
dislike and none of the vices I admire.”  High commodity prices enrich a class whose corrupting
influence is legend, and whose chief skill is the ability to
secure the right political contacts. Meanwhile, high commodity
prices, particularly for oil, squeeze the poor and the middle
class, and act as a brake on growth in the industrial world.
During the 2000s, the U.S. fretted over the rise of corrupt oil
tycoons and unstable dictators in nasty petro-states, and
rightly so.  That’s why  falling  commodity prices -- both gold and copper
are still down more than 10 percent this year despite the latest
bounce -- are good news. The China-commodity connection is
breaking. After three straight decades of ultrafast growth,
China’s inevitable slowdown has let air out of the bubble: Since
the peak in April 2011, the broadest available measure of
commodity prices has fallen 16 percent. In recent months, money
has started flowing out of exchange-traded funds for most
commodities.  The Malthusian specter of rising demand and shrinking
supply has been replaced by a new realization that, for most
commodities, demand is flat and supply is rising fast.  Oil
demand  in developed nations has been stable since 1995, because
high  oil prices  have inspired conservation efforts in countries
such as Japan and the U.S.  Flattening Demand  Now, as emerging nations begin to embrace  energy efficiency 
as well -- China is  working hard  on electric cars, for instance,
despite continuing to build dozens of coal plants -- global
demand might flatten out this decade. The debate over “peak
oil” scenarios may shift from the threat of dwindling supply to
the threat of peaking demand.  Certainly, the world is no longer terrified of running out
of important commodities. High prices have drawn investment to
copper mines, aluminum smelters and other basic sources of
supply. In the past decade, the amount of capital invested in
the energy and materials sector, which includes most nonfarm
commodities, has risen 600 percent, compared with an average
increase of 200 percent in other sectors.  The much-discussed boom in U.S.  shale-gas  production is
only one result of this spending: Since 2001, China has
increased output of industrial metals by striking multiples,
from about 140 percent for  iron-ore  commodities to 775 percent
for nickel.  This is part of the normal cycle of the world economy, not
a supercycle. Commodity-price booms restrain demand, while
attracting money and innovation to increase supply, which leads
to a bust. For the last 200 years, the average price of
commodities has followed this predictable cycle: one decade up,
often sharply, followed by two decades down, with the result
that real prices haven’t risen since 1800. There are exceptions
to the rule. Some commodities, including oil and copper, have
gained somewhat in real terms. But  gold  has just retained its
value. The price today (about $1,500 an ounce) is roughly the
same as in 1980, when adjusted for inflation.  If the historical pattern holds, we are now entering a long
period of falling  commodity  prices, which could last two
decades. That is good for importers such as the U.S., as was the
case in the 1980s and 1990s when commodity prices were falling.
The current fall in retail gasoline prices should increase the
purchasing power of the American consumer and offset the fiscal
drag from the government sequestration cuts.  Meanwhile, the nations that have reveled in the commodity
boom of recent years are likely to face a disheartening return
to the mundane ordeals of normal life. Buddhist monks have a
phrase for it: “After the ecstasy, the laundry.”  (Ruchir Sharma is the author of “Breakout Nations” and
the head of  emerging markets  and global macro at Morgan Stanley
Investment Management. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ruchir Sharma at  Ruchir.Sharma@morganstanley.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at  nhajari@bloomberg.net . 