-- Euro Can Grow to 25 States in Next Years in Finnish Scenario
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-05-06T07:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/euro-can-grow-to-25-states-in-next-few-years-in-finnish-scenario.html
Far from undermining the euro’s
credibility, the debt crisis has underscored the currency’s
durability, Finland’s  Europe  Minister Alexander Stubb said.  Policy makers have made the legal adjustments needed to
help the euro survive the turmoil of the past three years and
the currency bloc is now ready to absorb a further eight
nations, he said.  “The euro is irreversible in the sense that it’s the most
stable currency Europe has ever seen,” Stubb, 45, said in an
interview at his office in Helsinki on May 3. “I don’t even
contemplate the possibility of the euro breaking up in my
lifetime. I see the euro including 24 to 25 member states within
a few years.”  Since its birth in 1999, the euro has grown from its 11
founding nations to 17. Its newest member,  Estonia , joined in
the middle of the global financial crisis while Baltic neighbor
 Latvia  is preparing for accession next year. Though its
architects failed to create a legal framework that envisaged the
stresses of the debt crisis, legislators have since done the
necessary work to ensure the euro’s survival, Stubb said.  “In terms of legislation, we’re approaching the limit,”
he said. “We’ve done what has been necessary: the two-pack, the
six-pack, the fiscal compact, the banking union. We’ve done the
European Stability Mechanism and before that the interim
mechanism.”  Political Vision  The message to investors is that while laws may change, the
political vision of a permanent euro region won’t, according to
Stubb.  “At the end of the day, the European Union should be a
pragmatic institution,” he said. “If you find a lacuna in the
system, you need to repair it.”  His expression of Finnish commitment to the euro area
follows the nation’s efforts to protect itself against losses
stemming from bailouts.  Finland  was the only nation to demand
collateral in exchange for its contribution to  Greece ’s second
bailout and for aid to  Spain . The northernmost euro member has
also consistently argued against joint bond issuance in the
bloc.  The road out of the crisis now depends on national
governments delivering on budget promises and generating growth
in their economies, Stubb said.  Europe’s crisis management “has been a question of
survival,” he said. “The cost of going without these rescue
packages would have been impossible.”  Stable AAA  After three years of fiscal turmoil, Finland will be one of
only four euro nations to comply with the bloc’s 60 percent debt
rule this year, according European Commission estimates
published May 3.  Germany ’s debt will reach 81.1 percent of gross
domestic product, while the euro area’s average will swell to
95.5 percent of GDP. Five euro nations are relying on
international bailouts to make their payments.  Finland is also the euro area’s sole remaining stable AAA
credit at the three main ratings companies. Moody’s Investors
Services gives Germany’s top rating a negative outlook.  Fitch
Ratings  affirmed Finland’s credit grade and stable outlook on
May 3, citing its strong governance and an “impeccable debt
service record.”  What’s more, Finland has kept its budget within the EU’s 3
percent deficit limit throughout the debt crisis -- an act even
Germany has been unable to pull off.  Forgetful Humans  “If this crisis is, say, 100 steps, we’ve probably taken
somewhere between 60 and 70 steps,” Stubb said. “We’re still
in the process of building trust among each other.”  All EU members, except the U.K. and  Denmark , are obligated
by the Maastricht Treaty to take up the single currency.  “The euro is by far the most stable currency that any
European country has seen throughout its history,” Stubb said.
“The human mind has a tendency to forget, but look at the
devaluations, revaluations, the peggings to the Gold Standard,
the inflation rates and the monetary instability that we’ve had
throughout European currency history.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  