-- Ford Sees Thai Eco Vehicles as Gateway to Southeast Asia
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-05-06T08:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/ford-sees-thai-eco-vehicles-as-gateway-to-southeast-asia.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s factories in Thailand
are capable of producing eight times more vehicles than it sells
locally. With help from a Thai government program, the automaker
plans to make sure the excess capacity doesn’t become a
liability like at its plants in  Europe .  Thailand is Southeast Asia’s biggest car market and an
export hub for the region as automakers such as Ford ship most
of the vehicles that roll out of Thai factories to nearby
countries tax-free. That includes  Indonesia , which is set to
dethrone Thailand in 2014, according to Englewood, Colorado-
based IHS Automotive.  Ford, along with Japanese automakers, sees Southeast Asia
as a salve for slowing sales in markets like Europe, and has
said its expansion in Thailand is part of an “ aggressive growth
plan ” for the region. Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford said it is
ready to join a Thai program for small, energy-efficient models
once new licenses become available, in the face of opposition
from  General Motors Co. (GM) , maker of the Chevrolet Spark mini car.  “Southeast Asia is going to assume immense importance in
the next couple of years,” said Vivek Vaidya, vice president
for the automotive and transportation sector at researcher Frost
& Sullivan based in  Singapore . “The market share of Japanese
companies is over 80 percent, hence all other players are
scrambling to win their market share in this region.”  Shifting Preference  Ford, maker of the Focus compact and Ranger pickup truck,
is the eighth-biggest automaker in Thailand, with a 4 percent
market share, according to researcher LMC Automotive. About 40
percent of that is thanks to sales of its pickup trucks, whose
ability to haul everything from machinery to families has helped
them make up two out of five vehicles sold in the nation.  Consumer preference in  Thailand , though, is shifting toward
small cars because of their lower prices as well as operating
costs compared with pickup trucks, Vaidya said.  Subcompacts, including eco models, made up more than half
of passenger-car sales in Thailand last year, according to IHS.
The share of eco cars will probably rise to 29 percent in 2016
from 19 percent last year, the research company said.  Ford, the second-largest U.S. automaker, plans to elevate
itself in Thailand with help from the government’s eco-car
project, which IHS and LMC Automotive say may be extended this
year.  Eco Cars  Under the program, eco cars are defined as those that
travel more than 20 kilometers (12 miles) on a liter of fuel,
don’t emit more than 120 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometer,
and meet other criteria including crash-test standards.
Manufacturers also must invest at least 5 billion baht ($168
million), which should include car assembly as well as engine
and parts production.  Automakers approved for the project introduced in 2007 get
an exemption on corporate tax and on the import duty for
machinery and equipment, and as much as a 90 percent reduction
on import duties for raw materials and finished parts, according
to Thailand’s  Board of Investment .  The tax breaks spurred demand for hatchbacks like  Nissan
Motor Co. (7201) ’s March and the Swift from  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269) , which
together with Honda Motor Co.,  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  and
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  are the five auto manufacturers licensed
under the program.  The tax breaks are scheduled to end in 2015, making a
government announcement imminent because automakers keen on
applying need to plan ahead, said Michael Dunne, president of
Hong Kong-based Dunne & Co., an auto research company focused on
Asia.  “Automakers plan future products three to five years ahead
of time,” Dunne said in an e-mail. “If they develop a specific
product for a market and then rules change, that’s going to be
monumental financial setback.”  Ford Interest  The Thai government may extend the eco-car project to help
boost auto production to meet a goal of making 3 million
vehicles by 2017, up from 2 million last year, the Bangkok Post
 reported  in March.  Vasana Mututanont, deputy secretary general at the board of
investment in Bangkok, and Kanchana Noppun, director of public
relations, didn’t answer calls to their office phones.  “There are immense benefits for both carmakers and
government,” said Frost’s Vaidya. “Carmakers get significantly
higher volumes due to the government-backed program and the
government gets increased investments, revenues and employment
generation.”  Vaidya expects U.S., Korean and European carmakers to be
leaders in the project, if extended.  “We would certainly be interested in participating,” Matt
Bradley, president of Ford’s Southeast Asian unit, said in a
telephone interview.  ‘Fuel-economy Conscious’  The subcompact market “is growing and is a sizable segment
in the industry,” Bradley said. Car buyers are becoming “more
fuel-economy conscious and carbon footprint conscious.”  Eco cars can also be exported tax-free to Indonesia, whose
250 million people makes up almost 40 percent of the population
in Southeast Asia. Economists predict Indonesian growth will be
about 6.3 percent in the three years starting 2013, second among
major Asian economies only to  China , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Ford’s strategy in Southeast Asia is based on making
vehicles across segments, the company said in an e-mail. The
company had no plans to set up production facilities in
Indonesia, Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally said in Bangkok
in March.  Idle Usage  “If Ford has the sales volume from eco cars, it can
utilize capacity that is currently idle,” Jessada Thongpak, an
analyst at IHS in Bangkok, said in a phone interview. “Buyers
are definitely moving toward smaller, fuel-efficient cars.”  Ford may consider introducing the 1.2-liter, 3.6 meter-long
Ka, sold in Europe and South America, or the 1.2-liter Figo that
it makes in  India , said Bradley. It could also build a new
model, he said.  Shares of Ford have advanced 6.8 percent this year,
compared with the 13 percent gain by the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  Ford, which shares a 290,000-unit-a-year factory with  Mazda
Motor Corp. (7261)  in Rayong that builds its pickups and Fiesta car,
opened a wholly owned facility near the existing factory. The
new plant, which can build 160,000 cars annually, is where the
automaker makes its Focus model. Though Ford declined to reveal
specific export figures for 2012, it said it exported 75 percent
to 80 percent of production to Southeast Asia as well as
 Australia  and New Zealand.  Key Hub  “Along with China and India, Thailand serves as one of the
key global production and export hubs for Ford Motor Company,”
Ford said in a statement last year.  Ford’s North American operations earned $2.4 billion in the
year’s first three months, the division’s best quarter ever,
after setting annual records of $8.34 billion with a 10.4
percent profit margin last year.  “Any move to expand eco car benefits to other
manufacturers will no doubt draw flak from current participants
of the project,” said Ammar Master, an analyst at LMC in
Bangkok.  Detroit-based GM, whose sales of Chevrolet cars such as the
Sonic hatchback and Trailblazer SUVs rank just behind Ford’s in
Thailand, wants an end to the eco project.  Japanese Stronghold  “We see no reason to continue or reopen government
programs that distort competition in the small-car segment or
create artificial demand,” Martin Apfel, president of GM’s
Southeast Asian operations, said in an e-mail. “We believe in
the principle of ‘may the best car win,’” with as little market
intervention as possible, he said.  While GM and Ford have about 9 percent market share
combined, that is only a fraction of the share the Japanese
automakers hold. Toyota had about 37 percent share, selling
515,375 vehicles last year, followed by  Isuzu Motors Ltd. (7202)  with
about 14 percent of the market, and Honda at 12 percent.  Ford is hoping to make a bigger dent in the market as it
looks to meet its CEO’s target of 40 percent of its sales coming
from Asia by 2020.  “We’re a different company today than back in 2007 when
the initial eco-car policy was around,” said Bradley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  