-- Indonesia Bulls Brace for Drop as Inflation Concern Mounts
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o ,   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2013-05-06T09:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/indonesia-bulls-brace-for-drop-as-stocks-collide-with-inflation.html
Money managers who profited most from
 Indonesia ’s 57 percent stock-market rally are preparing for a
temporary retreat as  valuations  climb to record highs and
inflation accelerates.  The MSCI Indonesia Index is poised to drop as much as 10
percent before resuming the advance that sent it to a  record  on
May 1, say Samsung Asset Management and Panin Asset Management,
whose stock picks in Asia’s sixth-largest economy helped their
funds beat 97 percent of peers since May 2010. The MSCI index
trades for 15 times estimated  profits , versus 11 times for the
MSCI EM Asia Index, a gauge of eight  emerging markets  in the
region. The gap in April was the biggest since Bloomberg began
compiling the data in 2006.  While profits have  increased  to a record amid nine straight
quarters of economic expansion of more than 6 percent,  inflation 
rose to a 22-month high in March and government plans to boost
fuel prices may spur tighter monetary policy, said Samsung
Asset’s  Alan Richardson . The Hong Kong-based money manager and
Panin Asset’s Winston Sual are still long-term bulls as
Indonesia’s 250 million people boost spending on financial
services and consumer products.  “The stock market could face more selling pressure in the
short term as inflation rises,” said Richardson, whose $127
million Samsung ASEAN Equity Fund  returned  an annualized 30
percent during the past three years. “There will be
opportunities to add” to Indonesian holdings after shares drop,
he said. Richardson favors lenders such as  PT Bank Mandiri (BMRI)  whose
floating-rate assets provide a hedge from rising borrowing
costs.  Aging Rally  The 26-stock MSCI Indonesia  index  has gone 333 days without
a retreat of at least 10 percent, the common definition of a
correction. That’s the longest  stretch  in two years and the
second most since 2005, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Shares may begin falling this quarter, then rally in the
final three months of the year, Richardson said. The retreat may
have already started after  Standard & Poor’s  reduced its outlook
on Indonesia’s credit rating to stable from positive on May 2,
Panin Asset’s Sual said. The country has a BB+ rating at S&P,
one level below investment grade.  The MSCI gauge gained 1.6 percent to 5,926.25 at the close
in Jakarta, while the 463-stock  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  rose 1.4
percent to 4,991.87, even after data showed the economy grew at
the slowest pace in two years. Both gauges sank at least 1.1
percent last week.  Maksima Fund  Before today, the MSCI Indonesia Index had climbed 13
percent this year, versus a 0.3 percent drop in the MSCI EM Asia
Index and a 1.2 percent retreat in the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index. The Indonesia gauge had rallied 37 percent since the
bottom of its last correction on June 4, a 17 percent slump that
lasted about two months.  A “small correction could happen, especially after a
strong rally like this,” Sual, who helps oversee about $1.3
billion as the president director at Panin Asset in Jakarta,
said in a telephone interview. His firm’s $508 million  Panin
Dana Maksima (PTPDMAI)  fund returned an annualized 30 percent during the
past three years, compared with 16 percent for the MSCI
Indonesia index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Foreign money managers poured a net $7.4 billion into
Indonesian shares since the end of 2010 as profits in the MSCI
index rose 33 percent and record-low interest rates helped
produce average annual economic growth of about 6.4 percent,
outpacing the developing-nation mean of 5.7 percent.  Investor Rotation  The country’s $500 billion equity market, Asia’s ninth-
largest, has also benefited from investors’ shift away from
 Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and  China  toward smaller developing
economies, according to John-Paul Smith, an emerging-market
strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in  London . The MSCI Indonesia
Index is the third-best performer among gauges in 21 emerging
nations this year after the MSCI Philippines Index and the MSCI
Turkey Index. The MSCI BRIC Index has declined 2.3 percent.  “There will come a point when you see a gradual rotation”
out of Southeast Asian markets that have advanced the most,
James Thom, a money manager at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc,
which oversees about $322 billion worldwide, said in a phone
interview from  Singapore  on April 19.  While Richardson and Sual say Indonesian shares are poised
for short-term declines, they both have a bullish long-term
outlook.  Indonesia’s middle class, defined by household expenditure
of more than $2,500 a year, may grow to 141 million by 2020 from
74 million in 2012, Ferry Wong, an equity strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in Jakarta, wrote in a March 20 report.  Bank Mandiri  Retail sales  climbed about 14 percent in February from a
year earlier, led by an 18 percent increase in motor vehicle
parts and accessories, according to a central bank survey. That
compares with the 12 percent increase in Chinese retail  sales 
during the January-February period, which included eight public
holidays.  Richardson and Sual favor shares of Bank Mandiri,
Indonesia’s second-biggest listed lender by market value. The
Jakarta-based company benefits from rising borrowing costs
because yields on its floating-rate assets will increase faster
than the bank’s liabilities, Richardson said.  Bank Mandiri posted on April 29 a 26 percent jump in first-
quarter net income. The  stock , which has risen 24 percent this
year, is valued at 12.4 times estimated 2013 earnings, based on
the average of 28 analyst projections compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s a 17.6 percent  discount  versus the MSCI Indonesia gauge.  Biggest Producer  Indonesia’s economic growth and foreign capital inflows are
slowing. The central bank cut its 2013 economic expansion
forecast on April 11 to between 6.2 percent and 6.6 percent from
the previous estimate of 6.3 percent to 6.8 percent, citing the
drag on exports caused by the recession in  Europe .  Overseas shipments  tumbled 13 percent in March, versus the
6.3 percent drop forecast by economists in a Bloomberg survey,
amid waning revenue from the nation’s  palm oil  and coal.
Indonesia is the world’s biggest producer of palm oil, which has
retreated 7.6 percent in Kuala Lumpur trading this year.  Indonesia’s economy expanded 6.02 percent in the three
months through March, statistics bureau data showed today. That
compares with a 6.11 percent pace reported previously for the
fourth quarter of 2012 and the median estimate of 6.1 percent in
a Bloomberg News survey of 26 economists.  Tighter Policy  The nation will probably raise subsidized fuel prices in
May, President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  said at a national
development planning meeting in Jakarta on April 30. The price
increase may ease concerns about the  budget deficit  and stem the
rupiah’s 5 percent depreciation against the dollar during the
past year, Deputy Finance MinisterMahendra Siregar said in an
April 24 interview in Jakarta. The government spent about $22
billion on fuel subsidies last year, official data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Higher energy costs this year may boost inflation to as
high as 6.5 percent, Citigroup said in an April 29 report.
Consumer prices  increased  at a 5.57 percent annual pace in April
after climbing 5.9 percent in March, the quickest rate since May
2011. The central bank will probably boost the rate it pays
lenders on overnight deposits, known as the Fasbi, by 0.25
percentage point by the end of the second quarter to 4.25
percent, Citigroup said.  “The belief is that  interest rates  have bottomed and
future monetary policy direction will be tightening, especially
since fuel subsidies are to be cut,” Samsung Asset’s Richardson
said.  ‘Bit Expensive’  Foreign  inflows  into equities are dwindling as valuations
increase. Net purchases fell to $74 million in April, a four-
month low, from $189 million in March, according to Jakarta
Stock Exchange data compiled by Bloomberg.  The MSCI Indonesia index’s forward price-earnings ratio has
climbed to 15 from 11 in June. That compares with an average of
13 since Bloomberg began compiling the data in January 2006.  “It’s a bit expensive,” Dennis Lim, a money manager who
helps oversee about $48 billion in emerging markets for
Templeton Asset Management Ltd., said by phone from Singapore on
April 24. He says a retreat of about 15 percent “will be a
signal to go in and hunt again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net 
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net 
 Michael Patterson  in  Hong Kong  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  