-- Israel Stocks Fall on Concern Syria Tension to Hit Economy
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-05-05T14:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/israel-stocks-fall-on-concern-syria-tension-to-hit-economy-1-.html
The  TA-25 benchmark stock index  fell
to the lowest in almost a week on concerns an escalation of
clashes with  Syria  could lead to a call-up of reserve-duty
soldiers, hurting economic growth.  The benchmark dropped as much as 0.4 percent and closed 0.1
percent lower at 1,203.01 in Tel Aviv. The measure has gained
4.9 percent in the past 12 months, the second-least among 24
developed equity markets compiled by Bloomberg. The Nasdaq
Composite Index gained 1.1 percent on May 3.  “The market is experiencing some jitters connected to
weakened geo-political events, including reports that Israel is
attacking targets in Syria,” Zach Herzog, head of international
sales at Psagot Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said today by
phone. “Investors are concerned about an escalation that could
lead to a call-up of reserves that could have economic
consequences.”  About 2,000 reservists took part in a surprise drill in the
north of the country,  Israel  radio reported on April 30. An army
spokesman said the drill was routine and scheduled. Israel
deployed two Iron Dome batteries in the North, the army said
today, as part of a routine operational deployment program.  A fireball exploded over Damascus early this morning as
Israeli missiles hit a target on the hilly outskirts of the
city, the Syrian state news agency said. It was the second such
reported attack in less than a week, neither of which has been
confirmed. An air strike on May 3 against Syria targeted a
shipment of missiles believed to be bound for Lebanon’s
Hezbollah, the Associated Press reported yesterday, citing
unidentified Israeli officials.  Lagging Performance  Increased geopolitical uncertainty and the continuation of
the civil war in Syria contributed to an under-performance of
the stock market in 2012 compared with other markets, the
central bank  said in its 2012 annual report . The TA-25 gauge
advanced 9.2 percent in 2012 compared with a 16 percent rise in
the Nasdaq Composite Index and a 29 percent gain in the DAX
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Economic growth is forecast to slow to 2.8 percent this
year, from 3.2 percent in 2012, excluding first-time natural-gas
revenue, according to the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  