-- Kenya May Resume Cutting Policy Rate to Boost Growth
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-05-06T06:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/kenya-to-resume-cutting-policy-rate-to-boost-growth.html
Kenya ’s central bank may resume
cutting  interest rates  to support the economy following peaceful
elections two months ago.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Njuguna Ndung’u, is set to reduce the benchmark  interest rate  by a
quarter of a percentage point to 9.25 percent, according to the
median estimate of eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Four
predict the rate will stay unchanged, while forecasts for a cut
range from 50 to 100 basis points. The bank will announce its
decision in an e-mailed statement tomorrow, Nancy Sang, a
spokeswoman for the bank, said in a phone interview.  Policy makers are focusing on supporting economic growth
after pausing the rate-cutting cycle in March to await the
outcome of elections. President Uhuru Kenyatta defeated former
prime minister  Raila Odinga  in the March 4 vote, which didn’t
repeat the violence that killed more than 1,100 people following
a disputed ballot six years ago.  “The political story in Kenya is now over and bedded, so
the central bank should cut the rate and stimulate economic
development,” Robert Bunyi, managing director of Nairobi-based
Mavino Capital Ltd., said in a phone interview. “Rates were
formerly higher because of inflationary pressures and a weak
shilling, but that’s not a worry now.”  Kenyatta has pledged to boost economic growth to 10 percent
a year from an estimated 5.6 percent this year and 5 percent in
2012.  Inflation Steady  Inflation (KNPRIYY)  was unchanged at 4.1 percent in April, below the
government’s target of 5 percent, giving the central bank room
to ease borrowing costs. The shilling has strengthened 2.6
percent against the dollar since the election, helping to keep
price-growth under control. The currency weakened 0.3 percent to
83.80 per dollar at 9:40 a.m. in Nairobi today.  “Not only has the Kenyan shilling rallied since the
election, but globally,  oil prices  appear to have moderated,”
 Razia Khan , head of Africa economic research at Standard
Chartered Plc in  London , said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  Tomorrow’s expected rate cut may be the last in this cycle
as government spending pressures increase with the creation of
county administrations, Khan said. The MPC lowered its benchmark
rate by 8.5 percentage points between July and January.  Kenyatta also announced a 14 percent increase in minimum
wages from May 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  