-- KKR’s Tech Head Said to Step Down to Take on Adviser Role
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2013-05-06T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/kkr-s-tech-head-said-to-step-down-to-take-on-adviser-role.html
KKR (KKR)  & Co.’s Adam Clammer, who heads
the team investing in technology deals at the private-equity
firm, is stepping down from daily responsibilities after 18
years with the company to take a senior adviser post, according
to a person familiar with the matter.  KKR named two partners in Clammer’s group, David Kerko and
Herald Chen, to co-lead the technology team, according to the
person, who asked not to be identified because the news isn’t
public. Kerko joined KKR in 1998, and Chen has been with the
firm since 2007, having earlier worked at New York-based KKR
from 1995 to 1997,  Kristi Huller , a spokeswoman, said in an e-
mailed statement in response to a request for comment.  KKR started investing in technology buyouts in 1995, the
year Clammer joined the firm from Morgan Stanley. Since then, it
has deployed about $9 billion in at least 17 deals in the
industry, including 12 since 2004, according to the firm. KKR
was one of the two firms that submitted a non-binding proposal
last year to acquire computer-maker  Dell Inc (DELL) , a person familiar
with the matter said. It later withdrew from the process, citing
the uncertain market for personal computers and competitive
pressures on Dell for its decision.  At KKR, Clammer led buyouts including that of  Avago
Technologies Ltd. (AVGO) , which KKR and Silver Lake Management LLC in
2005 agreed to acquire for $2.66 billion from  Agilent
Technologies Inc. (A)  Three years later, the firms took Avago, the
former semiconductor unit of Agilent, public. The firm made
almost five times its money on the deal, according to the person
familiar with the matter.  Other KKR technology investments out of Clammer’s group
include Aricent Group, Go Daddy Group Inc., and NXP
Semiconductors NV. KKR’s investment in NXP was marked at 1.1
times cost as of March 31, according to a quarterly filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Larry Edelman  at 
 ledelman3@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  