-- MTN Seeks Talks With Nigeria Over Dominance Report
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-05-05T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/mtn-seeks-talks-with-nigeria-over-dominance-report.html
MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s biggest
mobile-phone company, said a report that criticized its market
leadership and pricing policy in Nigeria isn’t clear and that it
will seek talks with the industry regulator.  MTN Nigeria Communications Ltd., a unit of Johannesburg-
based MTN, has become “dominant” in Nigeria with a 44 percent
market share of the mobile voice market, the Nigerian
Communications Commission said in a review on its website dated
April 25. The commission said phone calls between MTN customers
cost a third of the price of calls to other networks and
amounted to “a calling club” for MTN users.  MTN must reform its mobile tariff policy and will face
further scrutiny to ensure the competitive landscape is fair for
all Nigeria’s operators, the NCC said. The regulator is in the
process of an industry shake-up in order to cut mobile phone
costs for  Africa ’s biggest population.  “At no time have we dropped prices to below the market,
we’ve always followed the market,” MTN Nigeria Chief Executive
Officer Brett Goschen said in a May 2 interview in his offices
in Lagos, the commercial capital. “There’s a lot of competition
and that’s what we need to discuss: how they’ve arrived at” the
conclusion the market isn’t competitive.  The NCC isn’t specific on whether MTN needs to raise or cut
its tariffs and hasn’t said the company has abused its market
position, Goschen said. Prices across Nigeria’s mobile-phone
operators have dropped 50 percent over the past year, showing
that the market is competitive, he said.  Market Leader  Nigeria, with a population of more than 160 million, had
about 109 million mobile phone subscribers at the end of 2012,
according to the NCC. MTN Nigeria was the market leader with
47.4 million customers, Nigeria’s Globacom Ltd. had 24.1
million, Mumbai-based  Bharti Airtel (BHARTI)  had 23.1 million, and Abu
Dhabi-based  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) , known as
Etisalat, had 14.9 million, according to data on the NCC’s
website.  Goschen expects a meeting to take place between MTN and
senior NCC officials during the week starting May 13.  “We are engaging with them,” he said. “We’ll have a
meeting and clarify some of these issues.”  MTN Nigeria is “confident” it will hit its target of
adding 7 million subscribers by the year end and “there may be
some upside” after 3.9 million new customers joined the network
in the first quarter of this year, Goschen said.  Smartphones  MTN Nigeria’s data subscriptions, which reached 22.8
million in the first quarter, are continuing to grow because of
increased use of smartphones in Africa’s biggest oil producer,
Goschen said.  The company’s revenue from data in  Nigeria  increased by
about 64 percent in the first quarter year-on-year in local
currency terms, the company said on April 25.  “The key for us is to get smart phones in our subscribers’
hands so we’ve done a number of initiatives in that regard,”
said Goschen. “We’ve partnered with the independent resellers
of devices” and “our outlets we’ve converted to be much more
device-orientated.”  MTN doesn’t expect many customers to take advantage of a
new rule approved by the NCC that allows mobile-phone users to
change service providers and retain their numbers because many
Nigerians have multiple phone numbers with different operators
already, Goschen said.  Subscribers use multiple numbers to take advantage of
promotions and to get stronger phone signals in different areas,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Lagos at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  