-- N.Y. Plans Homeowner Enforcement Against Financial Firms
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-05-05T23:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/n-y-plans-homeowner-enforcement-against-financial-firms.html
New York  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said he will announce new enforcement actions
against major financial institutions as part of his effort to
“protect New York homeowners” after calling the first such
lawsuit last year a “template” for future litigation.  In October, Schneiderman sued JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
alleging that Bear Stearns, which JPMorgan took over in 2008,
deceived mortgage-bond investors about defective loans backing
securities they bought, leading to “monumental losses.” He
said the case would be a model for future actions against banks
that issued mortgage bonds during the real estate boom. He sued
Credit Suisse Group AG on similar grounds the next month.  “We do expect this to be a matter of very significant
liability, and there are others to come that will also reflect
the same quantum of damages,” Schneiderman said last year.
“We’re looking at tens of billions of dollars, not just by one
institution, but by quite a few.”  New York was one of 49 states that reached a $25 billion
settlement with five mortgage servicers, including  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ,  Wells Fargo & Co ., and JPMorgan, to end a probe
of abusive foreclosure practices. Schneiderman’s office had
agreements with 12 financial institutions that preserved claims
that might be filed against them, a person familiar with the
matter said last year. The so-called tolling agreements
prevented the statute of limitations, which bars litigation
after a specific number of years have passed, from expiring.  BofA Accord  The announcement later today also comes after Schneiderman
said he won’t seek to block  Bank of America ’s effort to complete
a settlement with mortgage-bond investors.  Delaware  Attorney
General  Beau Biden  joined him in saying he wouldn’t object to
the accord because investors had benefited from their earlier
intervention in the case. New York had previously said the deal
represented “a tiny percentage” of investor losses.  Damien LaVera, a spokesman for Schneiderman, declined to
comment about the enforcement actions to be announced, whether
they are connected to the JPMorgan or Credit Suisse litigation,
or last week’s statement about the BofA settlement.  Federal-State  Schneiderman helps lead a federal-state group formed to
investigate misconduct in the bundling of  mortgage loans  into
securities. The group includes the  Justice Department  and the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  “We’re a long way from wrapping this up,” he said last
year.  JPMorgan and Credit Suisse said New York was relying on
recycled claims from private lawsuits. Both banks asked a New
York state court to dismiss the complaints.  The proposed BofA mortgage bond accord was filed two years
ago in New York state court in a bid for approval with the
backing of an investor group that included Pacific Investment
Management Co. The deal, which would resolve claims from
investors in Countrywide Financial mortgage bonds, is set to be
considered by a judge at a hearing starting May 30.  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America acquired
Countrywide in 2008.  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  argued in a court filing
May 3 that New York State Supreme Court Justice Barbara Kapnick
in  Manhattan  should reject the accord. The insurer said the
settlement is “unreasonably and unjustifiably small” and
“severely understates” Bank of America’s liability.  ’Pennies’  “The resulting settlement is a pennies-on-the-dollar
bargain for BofA that woefully undercompensates” investors, AIG
and other investors said in the filing.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of America, declined
to comment on the filings by AIG and the  attorneys general .  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency , the regulator for
mortgage finance companies  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , said last
week it was withdrawing a “conditional objection” filed in
2011 in which the agency said it needed more information to
evaluate the agreement.  Schneiderman and Biden said in their joint filing that when
the settlement was submitted in state court in June 2011, it was
an agreement of “unprecedented size and complexity,” while
 Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the trustee seeking approval for
the agreement, was offering “minimal disclosure” to investors.
After almost two years of litigation, “fulsome adversarial
examination” of the deal has occurred ahead of the approval
hearing, the states said.  ‘Substantive Issues’  “The attorneys general do not express a view as to the
unsettled substantive issues of the settlement’s adequacy,”
they said.  New York said in a court filing last year that there were
“serious questions about the fairness and adequacy” of the
settlement and that the facts “suggest that the proposed
settlement is unfair.”  Biden’s office said in 2011 that it had “significant
concerns that the proposed settlement does not adequately remedy
the harm suffered by the beneficiaries.”  “We are satisfied that a sufficiently transparent process
has developed in which all parties are fully able to present
their sides to the court, and we believe the court will be able
to conduct a thorough evaluation and resolve these issues fairly
and impartially,”  Jason Miller , a spokesman for Biden, said in
a statement.  Kevin Heine, a BNY Mellon spokesman, said the bank is
pleased New York, Delaware and the FHFA aren’t opposing approval.  “We continue to believe that we have carried out our
duties as trustee under the governing documents and acted in the
best interests of the certificate holders,” he said in a
statement.  The case is In the matter of the application of the Bank of
New York Mellon, 651786-2011, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  