-- Netanyahu Heads to China to Discuss Trade Amid Tension
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-05-05T16:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/netanyahu-heads-to-china-to-discuss-trade-amid-tension.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  arrives in  China  today to tighten economic ties and
urge China’s new leaders to clamp down harder on  Iran  and its
ally  Syria , amid reports of Israeli airstrikes there.  Netanyahu boarded his plane the same day Syria said it was
attacked by Israeli missiles, sending a fireball into the sky
over Damascus. Netanyahu says a nuclear Iran would threaten
 Israel  and warned last week that the Islamic Republic “must not
be allowed to cross” the threshold where it can produce a
nuclear weapon.  The four-day trip may give Israel an opportunity to present
its case before China’s new leaders, while they are still
forming their strategic outlook on the region.  “The Chinese leadership was recently replaced and it is
expected to rule there for the coming decade,” Netanyahu’s
office said in a statement. “Issues of strategic importance in
a variety of fields are expected to be raised in Prime Minister
Netanyahu’s meetings with senior leaders of the new
administration; new bilateral agreements will also be signed.”  Even at this juncture, Netanyahu may find it easier to sell
China on Israel’s economy than persuade it to support harsher
sanctions on Iran or tighten the screws on Syria, said Yitzhak
Shichor, a professor emeritus in Asian studies at the Hebrew
University in  Jerusalem  and the University of Haifa.  $10 Billion Goal  Netanyahu has set a goal of bringing trade with China to
$10 billion within three years, from about $8 billion, his
office said in the statement. In addition to Chinese President Xi Jinping and Prime Minister  Li Keqiang , he plans to meet
industrialists and businesspeople in  Shanghai  and Beijing to
advance a free trade agreement and economic cooperation accords
in research and development and innovative technology, according
to the statement.  China, in its own media coverage ahead of the trip, has
barely mentioned Syria or Iran, focusing instead on trade and
China’s desire for Israeli technology. It already imports
products from  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  and Israeli facilities of
 Intel Corp. (INTC)   On political matters, “the likelihood of Israel persuading
China to change its mind is almost nil,” Shichor said. “The
Chinese have other interests that have nothing to do with
Israel.”  ‘Concrete Results’  At the same time, he said, the economic issue “is very,
very important” because it strengthens ties without political
complications. “Everyone is interested in commercial ties,
academic ties,” Shichor said. “This is where there might be
concrete results.”  Iran is a top supplier of oil to China, which has used its
veto power in the  United Nations Security Council  to undercut
more stringent U.S.-backed measures against the Iranian
government. Netanyahu says Iran, despite its protestations to
the contrary, is using its civilian nuclear program as a cover
to build bombs and he has hinted repeatedly he would be prepared
to attack it.  “If Israel is a factor in China’s considerations on the
Iran issue, it would be primarily through Beijing’s perception
of its close relationship with the U.S.,” said Yoram Evron of
the University of Haifa’s Asian Studies department and a
research fellow at Tel Aviv University’s Institute of Strategic
Studies. “Netanyahu might also be able to influence Chinese
thinking if he convinces them he is really ready to take
military action against Iran” -- something that could disrupt
the flow of Gulf oil to the Chinese.  Military Strike  China has also bucked Israel and its Western allies on
Iranian-backed Syria, vetoing UN resolutions condemning
President Bashar al-Assad and opposing direct intervention.  Israel has said it would prevent Syria from transferring
chemical weapons and other advanced arms to Assad allies such as
the Iranian-backed Lebanese militia Hezbollah, which warred with
Israel in 2006. It is suspected of having attacked a Syrian
convoy in January for just that reason, and twice within the
past few days. Israel, which called a snap military drill last
week along its northern border with Lebanon and Syria, has not
confirmed these attacks.  China and Israel are also at odds over the Palestinians,
with the Chinese backing their statehood bid at the UN, over
Israeli and U.S. opposition. Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas 
is scheduled to meet Chinese leaders in Beijing as Netanyahu
lands in Shanghai. Last week, a Chinese Foreign Ministry
spokeswoman said China was willing to help if the Israeli and
Palestinian leaders wanted to meet there.  Political disagreements shouldn’t get in the way of
improved strategic ties with Beijing, Evron said.  Disrupted Ties  “The turmoil in the Arab world has disrupted China’s
traditional ties in the region and Beijing, which values
stability above all, could see Israel as a more valuable
regional relationship than it has in the past,” he said.  That relationship was damaged a decade ago after the U.S.,
concerned that China’s military capability was growing,
pressured Israel to cancel sales to China of the Phalcon radar
system and parts for armed Harpy drones it already sold the
Chinese, in effect ending arms trade between the countries.  Commercial ties, by contrast, have taken off in the past
decade. China is Israel’s third-biggest trading partner, after
the U.S. and European Union, with imports in 2012 totaling $5.3
billion and exports at $2.8 billion, according to Israel’s
 Central Bureau of Statistics .  Israel’s main exports to China
are chemicals mined from the  Dead Sea  by Israel Chemicals,
electronic components and agrotechnology.  Promote Small Companies  “Israel’s exports to China are dominated by a few big
companies like ICL and Intel, so what Netanyahu and his team
have to do is promote more medium and small companies,” said
Ilan Maor, managing director of SHENG-BDO Zvi Haft, which
assists Israeli and Chinese companies doing business together.
“The Chinese are especially interested in Israeli expertise in
technology, including life sciences, renewable energy, water
treatment and  homeland security .”  Last year, Israel signed an accord to sell China $300
million in water technology.  Chinese investment in Israel has also grown, including the
2011 sale of 60 percent of fertilizer maker Makhteshim-Agan
Industries Ltd. to China National Chemical Corp. for $2.15
billion and last month’s acquisition of Alma Lasers Ltd. by
 Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical (Group) Co. (600196)  for about $240
million. Israeli firms with operations in China include  Teva
Pharmaceutical Ltd. (TEVA) , Iscar Metalworking Co. and Israel Corp.’s
electric car venture Better Place.  One project Netanyahu would especially like to involve
China in is the construction of a proposed rail link between
Israel’s Mediterranean ports and its Red Sea port of Eilat,
opening up an alternative trade route to the  Suez Canal . That
prospect may now seem more attractive to China with Israel’s
recent discoveries of natural gas fields large enough to allow
exports.  “If we can increase Chinese investment in Israel, we can
take the economy to another level and help it to continue
growing during the global financial crisis,” Netanyahu told
Israeli diplomatic officials in Jerusalem last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  