-- Norway Raises Oil Taxes in Bid to Ease Cost Pressures on Economy
-- B y   S t e v e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-05-05T12:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/norway-raises-oil-taxes-in-bid-to-ease-cost-pressures-on-economy.html
Norway  announced it will raise taxes
on oil companies by about 3 billion kroner ($520 million) a year
to damp cost pressures and overheating in western  Europe ’s
biggest oil producer.  The government will limit four-year exemptions on so-called
free cash flow to 22 percent from 30 percent and raise the
special petroleum tax to 51 percent from 50 percent, keeping a
top tax rate of 78 percent, according to a presentation in Oslo
today. The increase comes as it also lowered overall corporate
taxes to 27 percent from 28 percent, which will be financed by
closing loopholes and corporate interest rate deductions.  “The changes will lead to an increased focus on costs in
the petroleum industry,” Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen
said. “This can damp the pressure and cost increases created by
the high activity level in the petroleum sector.”  Norway is starting to feel the pain from Europe’s debt
crisis and the strengthening krone even as it struggles to
absorb wealth from its offshore oil and gas production. This has
split the economy, causing job cuts in traditional industries
such as forestry production as record investment offshore
pushes wages and costs up nationwide.  The changes were met with immediate criticism from the oil
industry. The largest producer in Norway is state-owned  Statoil
ASA. (STL)  Other major producers off the Nordic country's shores 
include Total SA, ConocoPhillips,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and 
 BP Plc. (BP/)   Weaken Business  “Stability and predictability have been crucial for the
competitiveness of the Norwegian continental shelf,” said
Erling Kvadsheim, an official at Norwegian Oil and Gas
Association, an industry lobby group, in an e-mailed statement.
“The proposed changes will weaken this.”  Norway is struggling to maintain oil production as fields
in the North Sea are depleted. The government, which funnels
most of its oil revenue into a wealth fund, estimates output
will decline for a 13th year this year.  The government, which releases its budget on May 7, also
today reiterated that it will keep spending within the fiscal
guideline of 4 percent of the nation’s sovereign wealth fund.
The fund is now valued at about $740 billion.  Growth in exports will slow to 0.5 percent this year, down
from 2.9 percent in 2012, the central bank estimates. Weaker
growth prospects are feeding through to the labor market,
pushing up registered unemployment to the highest since 2011.  The krone reached a record on a trade-weighted basis in
February and its strength has kept inflation below the bank’s
2.5 percent target since late 2010. The central bank, which has
held its benchmark rate unchanged at 1.5 percent since March
last year, has signaled that it may cut rates further to cool
krone gains.  Growth in Norway’s mainland economy, which excludes oil,
gas and shipping, is estimated to slow to 2.75 percent in 2013
from 3.5 percent last year, according to central bank forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  