-- Novartis Boost Seen in Fast Approvals as Protection Ends
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2013-05-05T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/novartis-boost-seen-in-fast-approvals-as-protection-ends.html
Just as  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s best-selling
medicines are losing patent protection, the company is poised to
get a revenue boost from a U.S. program designed to speed life-
saving therapies to patients with few treatment options.  Novartis,  Europe ’s biggest drugmaker, plans to seek
approval to sell a new lung-cancer treatment as soon as next
year after winning a “breakthrough” designation from the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration. The breakthrough program is a
response to demands from doctors and patients for quicker access
to medicines under development.  Earlier entry to the $5.8 billion lung-cancer market would
help Novartis, based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , fill a growing
revenue gap as best-selling products Diovan for hypertension and
Gleevec for cancer face competition from generic copies.  The
heart drug started to lose patent protection last year; Gleevec
will be open to copies starting in 2015. Together, they
generated $9.1 billion in sales last year.  “This is really changing the whole development paradigm,”
said  Barbara Weber , a senior cancer drug researcher for
Novartis.  In an early-stage trial of 88 patients, the drug, dubbed
LDK378, shrank tumors in four-fifths of volunteers who had
previously taken Xalkori, a rival treatment from  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,
according to  data  presented at the  European Society for Medical
Oncology  conference last year.  The results are “really remarkable,” said  Alice Shaw , an
oncologist at  Massachusetts General Hospital , who led the trial
of Novartis’s medicine.  Adding Time  The most frequent side effects were nausea, vomiting and
diarrhea. Novartis plans to publish additional results on the
drug at this month’s meeting of the  American Society of Clinical
Oncology . Still, due to the nature of the trials, the data can’t
help doctors assess whether the drug will indeed prolong lives
or slow cancer.  Shaw says studies indicate the drug will add time to cancer
patients’ lives, though it’s too early to say for sure. The drug
may also act on cancer that has spread to the brain, an
advantage that Xalkori doesn’t have, she said.  The Novartis therapy was first tested on people who no
longer responded to Xalkori, and is now entering trials with
patients who haven’t yet tried the competing product.  Though Novartis hasn’t yet published its sales expectations
for the drug, if it’s effective revenue could exceed the $360
million a year predicted by brokerage Helvea SA, said Herve Hoppenot, the company’s president of oncology. Xalkori may see
annual sales of $831 million by 2017, according to the average
of four  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Breakthrough Therapies  Novartis is considering seeking permission early next year
to market the drug after two stages of clinical testing,
Hoppenot said in an interview. That could make it one of
Novartis’s fastest approvals, he said, matching the cancer drug
Tasigna, which took three years.  Novartis fell 0.2 percent to 68.75 Swiss francs in Zurich
on May 3. The stock has gained 24 percent this year including
reinvested dividends, compared with a 20 percent return for the
Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  New treatments for  lung cancer  fit the FDA’s profile of
what it calls  breakthrough  therapies that the agency wants to
offer to patients more quickly. Until now, the FDA has typically
demanded three trials in people, testing about 1,000 to 5,000
patients. That usually takes six to seven years, followed by six
months to two years to gain approval, according to the
 Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America .  Patient Demands  Instead, one or two trials with a few hundred patients may
be enough for a company to start selling a drug, with later
tests to confirm the FDA’s preliminary clearance. European
regulators are also  discussing  a path to early clearance of
drugs, according to the  European Medicines Agency .  “At the end of the day, this is about giving in to
patients’ demand for faster access,” said Helvea analyst Olav Zilian. “The proof that the drug works will have to be handed
in later.”  Of patients with the most common form of lung cancer,
called non-small cell lung cancer, 31 percent live for at least
five years if the disease is caught early; for the most advanced
form, the five-year survival rate drops to 1 percent.  While drugs such as Xalkori and  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Tarceva
have entered the market recently, they are often only potent in
patients with a defined gene defect, and even then only until
the cancer finds new ways of growing, leaving doctors with an
empty arsenal.  Stomach Problems  “The issue is that patients do very well, but they do
develop resistance in one to two years,” Shaw said of Xalkori.
Shaw consults for companies including Novartis and New York-
based Pfizer.  The program may help people such as  Jessica Rice , who is
taking LDK378 as part of a clinical trial. Rice was told she had
lung cancer in November 2011, at the age of 30.  Rice tried chemotherapy, which failed to slow the disease,
then Xalkori. While that worked, it caused intense back pain so
she stopped the treatment. Since she started taking LDK378, she
has suffered severe stomach problems, but since she’s in a trial
she can’t take more than a few days off. If the drug were
commercially available, that wouldn’t be a problem.  “I’m getting very sick,” said Rice, a former project
manager for Citibank who lives near Philadelphia. “Once I go
off the trial, there is no going back. I can’t come back to this
to buy me a year of life.”  Rogue Proteins  Xalkori and LDK378 block rogue proteins made by a damaged
copy of the ALK gene, a defect carried by about 5 percent of
patients with non-small cell lung cancer. Until recently, those
with the defective gene had no option other than chemotherapy, a
grueling regimen that temporarily helped about one in 10
patients.  Targeted drugs like LDK378 are ideal for faster approval
because they are less likely to cause the wide-ranging side
effects seen from chemo. Doctors can determine which patients
carry the defects and give the medicines only to those who might
benefit.  “We used to have to treat 100 patients to benefit 10,”
said  Len Lichtenfeld , the  American Cancer Society ’s deputy chief
medical officer. “Now we can demonstrate effectiveness right
out of the box.”  Success Stories  Other therapies that have received the breakthrough
designation since it was established last year include Pfizer’s
breast-cancer drug palbociclib and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and
 Pharmacyclics Inc. (PCYC) ’s ibrutinib for certain types of blood
cancer. Xalkori was approved in 2011, before the FDA program was
introduced.  Strong results in early trials don’t always translate into
longer survival for patients, which is always going to be a risk
with faster approvals, cautioned  Charles Sawyers , chairman of
human oncology at the  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  and
a member of the Novartis board since February.  “I suspect there will be some files where the breakthrough
will be a little too aggressive,” Sawyers said in an interview.
“At least in cancer we’re going to have more success stories
we’re proud of than mistakes.”  For Related News and Information:
Targeted Cancer Therapies Boost U.S. Approvals to 15-Year High  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  