-- Loans Suffer Largest Loss to Bonds in Cnooc Sale: China Credit
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s ,   F o s t e r   W o n g   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-05-06T04:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/loans-suffer-largest-loss-to-bonds-in-cnooc-sale-china-credit.html
Cnooc Ltd.’s (883)  $4 billion bond sale
marks the biggest defeat for the Chinese corporate dollar loan
market as companies sell six times more notes in the U.S.
currency this year to refinance debt.  The nation’s largest offshore energy explorer undertook a
record offering of securities to replace part of a loan used to
 acquire  Nexen Inc., which operates in  Canada ’s oil sands, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The company paid 3 percent to sell
debt due 2023, 87.5 basis points less than a year earlier, after
10-year Treasury yields last week fell to the lowest since
December. Chinese borrowers are paying an average 45 basis
points less than in 2012 for dollar loans.  Chinese and  Hong Kong  issuers sold $18.8 billion of dollar-denominated bonds to refinance debt this year, more than six
times similar issuance for the same period last year, meeting
demand from global fund managers seeking higher yields in
 emerging markets . The companies signed $12.2 billion of
syndicated loans, as banks showed caution ahead of tighter
regulatory requirements on capital.  “Borrowing costs have declined significantly so bond sales
allow a strong company like Cnooc to issue debt, and secure
cheap and long-term financing,” said Singapore-based Leong Wai
Hoong, who buys investment-grade and high-yield Asia dollar
bonds at Nikko Asset Management Co., which manages about $154
billion. “Bank loans are usually available for shorter-tenor
debt, where the principal must be repaid gradually.”  Maturing Loans  Some $25.2 billion of loans to companies in  China  and Hong
Kong mature this year, 76 percent more than in 2012, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s on top of $52 billion in
dollar bonds those companies are due to repay before January.  Sinochem Group , China’s biggest supplier of chemical
products, planned to use part of a $600 million perpetual bond
it sold last month for “short-term loan refinancing,” a person
familiar with the matter said at the time. China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp., known as Sinopec, is using some of the $3.5
billion it raised from a four-part bond offering to “repay
certain bank debt,” according to an April 19 Hong Kong stock
exchange  statement .  “It makes sense for corporates to have longer tenor and
non-amortizing debt as part of their  capital structure  alongside
loans,” said Justin Crane, the Singapore-based global head of
loan syndicate and distribution with Standard Chartered Plc.
“At some point,  interest rates  will go up so it’s
understandable why corporates are taking the opportunity to
issue bonds and lock in these low rates for the next seven to 10
years.”  Falling Costs  Yields on 10-year Treasuries reached the lowest this year
last week as the  Federal Reserve  reiterated its commitment to
asset purchases aimed at spurring economic growth. Yields slid
to 1.61 percent on May 1, the least since Dec. 11, Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices show. The central bank pledged to maintain
its bond-buying at a pace of $85 billion a month, and said it
would raise or lower the level of purchases as economic
conditions evolve.  Chinese companies  pay  an average of 5.4 percent to sell
dollar debt as of May 3, after costs fell 391 basis points, or
3.91 percentage points, in 2012, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. indexes. Yields declined 8 basis points in April, the most
since November.  Cnooc’s 10-year bonds yielded 139 basis points more than
Treasuries as of 12:15 p.m. in Hong Kong, according to Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc quotes, after pricing at a spread of
155 basis points.  Loan Margins  “The bonds rallied post-issuance even though the company
tightened price guidance substantially,” said Chia Tse Chern,
head of Singapore and  Asia  fixed income at UOB Asset Management
Ltd. “U.S. Treasury yields are now near a five-month low and
market appetite for highly rated credits is strong.”  Loan costs have also fallen, although by a smaller amount.
The nation’s borrowers have paid an average interest margin of
272.1 basis points more than the three-month London interbank
offered rate this year, compared with 303 basis points in 2012,
the data show.  Cnooc paid less than half that for the $6 billion 12-month
bridge loan it signed in February as part of its $15.1 billion
purchase of Nexen, its largest overseas acquisition. The margin
was set at 80 basis points more than Libor for the first six
months of the facility, and was to increase in steps to 120
basis points, the data show.  “Cnooc indicated shortly after taking on a loan to
purchase Nexen that it planned to refinance it,” said Gourav
Dhavale, a Hong Kong-based Asia credit analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc. “It would be logical for them to find ways to
fund that now, given the decline in borrowing costs.”  Falling Risk  Onshore borrowing costs are also falling. Yields on China’s
 benchmark  10-year government bonds fell 11 basis points last
month, the most since May 2012, according to Chinabond. The
notes paid 3.42 percent as of May 3, near the lowest level in
eight months. Similar-maturity top-rated corporate  bonds  pay
5.11 percent, six basis points less than at the end of March,
Chinabond indexes show.  Bond risk for the nation dropped last month. The cost of
 insuring  China’s debt against non-payment with credit-default
swaps fell 2.5 basis points in April and was at 70 basis points
as of May 3, according to data provider CMA. The  yuan  gained
0.15 percent to 6.1556 per dollar in  Shanghai  last week. It was
trading at 6.1576 as of 12:03 p.m. in Shanghai.  Investor Demand  Cash inflows into global bond funds beat equity funds by
the widest margin since late October in the week to April 24,
taking in a net $7.58 billion, according to data provider EPFR
Global.  Demand from investors for Cnooc’s notes exceeded $23.8
billion, according to a person familiar with the matter. The
explorer’s 10-year bonds generated the most interest, with the
company selling half of its $4 billion offering at that tenor.  Cnooc also priced $750 million of 1.125 percent securities
due 2016, $750 million of 1.75 percent five-year notes and $500
million of 4.25 percent debt due in 30 years, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “Cnooc was always likely to refinance with bonds,” said
Mark Reade, a Hong Kong-based credit analyst at Credit Agricole
CIB. “Regardless of price, one thing the bond market does
provide is long maturity debt. While banks may be willing to
lend up to five years, bond markets allow corporates to lock-in
record-low funding levels for up to 30.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
Foster Wong in Hong Kong at 
 fwong94@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  