-- Obama Challenges Graduates to ‘Participate,’ ‘Persevere’
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-05-05T16:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/obama-challenges-graduates-to-participate-persevere-.html
President  Barack Obama  urged graduates
of  Ohio State University  to embrace service and citizenship,
challenging the class of 2013 to become active participants in
the democratic process.  In his first commencement address this year, Democrat Obama
defended the role of government and pushed the graduates to
become engaged in issues dominating the political debate as they
move into the workforce.  “I will ask you for two things: to participate, and to
persevere,” Obama said to an estimated 8,200 students in
attendance to receive their degrees from the university in
Columbus, Ohio. “After all, your democracy does not function
without your active participation.”  Challenges facing the graduates include curbing gun
violence, confronting  climate change , improving roads and
bridges, and boosting early childhood education, the president
said. He urged them to find the “political will to harness the
ingenuity of your generation, and encourage and inspire the hard
work of dedicated citizens.”  The graduating class, the second largest in the
university’s history, enters the workforce as the economy
recovers from a downturn that pushed the U.S.  unemployment  rate
over 10 percent during part of Obama’s first term.  “You are graduating into an economy and a job market that
are steadily healing,” Obama said.  Unemployment Rate  American employers added more workers than forecast in
April, sending the  unemployment rate  down to a four-year low of
7.5 percent and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  briefly above
15,000 for the first time. The  S&P 500  climbed 2 percent to
1,614.42 for the week, marking the first time the index traded
above 1,600.  The recession that came with the 2008 financial crisis, as
well as terrorist attacks and the wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan 
were driving forces in the development of this year’s graduates,
Obama said.  “You have been tested and tempered by events that your
parents and I never imagined we’d see when we sat where you
sit,” Obama said. “And yet, despite all this, or more likely
because of it, yours has become a generation possessed with that
most American of ideas -- that people who love their country can
change it.”  Obama defended the role of government amid criticism from
Republicans that the U.S. has stifled economic growth and
personal freedom.  ‘Reject’ Voices  “You should reject these voices,” Obama said at  Ohio 
Stadium, the home of the university’s football team. “Because
what they suggest is that our brave, creative, unique experiment
in self-rule is just a sham with which we can’t be trusted.”  Obama’s speech was the first of three he will give to
college graduates this year. He will speak at  Morehouse College 
in Atlanta,  Georgia , on May 19 and at the May 24 commissioning
ceremony at the  U.S. Naval Academy  in Annapolis,  Maryland .  Obama said the country’s response to tragedies during the
past year, including the superstorm Sandy and the April 15
bombing at the Boston Marathon, has shown “the American spirit
at its brightest.”  Still, he called on the graduates to do more.  “I dare you to do better,” Obama said. “I dare you to be
better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Columbus, Ohio at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  