-- Penguins Beat Islanders in Overtime for 2-1 Lead in NHL Playoffs
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-06T04:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/penguins-beat-islanders-5-4-in-overtime-to-lead-nhl-series-2-1.html
The Pittsburgh Penguins spoiled the
New York Islanders’ first home playoff game in six years,
winning 5-4 on Chris Kunitz’s overtime goal to avoid a second
straight loss in their National Hockey League playoff series.  The  Minnesota  Wild sent the Chicago Blackhawks to their
first loss of the postseason, winning 3-2 in overtime, while the
Ottawa Senators routed the Montreal Canadiens 6-1 yesterday and
the San Jose Sharks topped the Vancouver Canucks 5-2.  The Penguins, the top seed in the Eastern Conference,
bounced back from a 4-3 home loss against the Islanders in Game
2 in which they blew a 3-1 lead. Kunitz scored a pair of goals
yesterday, including the winner on a power play eight minutes,
44 seconds into overtime.  “In a game that had too many bad plays by us to be able to
let them come back and get them in front, we did a good job of
getting one in overtime,” Kunitz told reporters.  Kunitz, Jarome Iginla, Pascal Dupuis and Douglas Murray
scored to give the Penguins a 4-2 lead yesterday in Uniondale,
New York, before third-period goals by the Islanders’ Kyle Okposo and John Tavares tied the score.  The best-of-seven first-round series continues at the same
venue tomorrow.  Also in the East, the Senators got three goals from Jean-
Gabriel Pageau to rout the Canadiens in a game that featured a
combined 236 penalty minutes between the two teams.  Ottawa, which scored four third-period goals, now has a 2-1
lead in the series and hosts Game 4 tomorrow.  Zucker’s Tie-Breaker  The Wild avoided a 3-0 deficit against the Blackhawks, the
top seed in the Western Conference, as rookie Jason Zucker
scored the tie-breaking goal 2:15 into overtime.  Two of the first three games in the series have gone to
overtime and Minnesota will host Game 4 tomorrow.  The Sharks went ahead 3-0 in their series against the
Canucks as Joe Pavelski and Logan Couture each scored twice. San
Jose can close out the series with a home win tomorrow.  There are four NHL playoff games scheduled for tonight,
including the New York Rangers hosting the Washington Capitals
in Game 3 of their first-round series and trailing 2-0.  The Toronto Maple Leafs host the Boston Bruins with their
Eastern Conference series tied at one game apiece. In the West,
the Anaheim Ducks visit the Detroit Red Wings and the Los
Angeles Kings host the St. Louis Blues. The Ducks and Blues both
hold 2-1 series leads.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  