-- TPG Capital, Warburg Said to Explore Neiman Marcus Exit
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-05-06T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/tpg-capital-warburg-said-to-explore-neiman-marcus-exit.html
TPG Capital and Warburg Pincus LLC are
exploring a sale or public offering of Neiman Marcus Group Inc.
eight years after acquiring the luxury retailer, according to
two people familiar with the matter.  The private-equity firms, which bought Dallas-based Neiman
Marcus in 2005 for $5.1 billion, have interviewed banks and are
close to hiring Credit Suisse Group AG to run the dual-track
process, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
process is private. The owners may seek about $8 billion for the
company, which has about 40 namesake department stores and owns
Bergdorf Goodman’s two stores in New York.  The firms, which have held their investment 60 percent
longer than is typical in the industry, are considering exit
options after the chain increased in-store and online sales.
Neiman Marcus Chief Executive Officer Karen Katz has been
working to recapture the sales volume the luxury retailer
enjoyed before the U.S. recession while carrying the debt the
chain assumed when it was taken private in 2005.  Neiman Marcus’s owners are in the early stages of exploring
their options, the people said. If TPG and Warburg don’t find a
buyer and demand for an IPO is weak, they may consider a
dividend recapitalization, one of the people said.  Fund Returns  Officials for Warburg, TPG, Credit Suisse and Neiman Marcus
declined to comment.  TPG and Warburg Pincus bought Neiman Marcus shortly before
the 2007-2009 financial crisis sapped retail sales. The median
time for buyout funds to sell holdings is about five years,
according to Seattle-based research firm PitchBook Data Inc.
Holding investments longer hurts the rate of fund returns, a key
metric the firms use to market new funds to potential investors.  Warburg Pincus is currently seeking $12 billion for a new
buyout fund and had closed on $7 billion as of January, a person
familiar with the process said at the time. The New York-based
firm’s current pool, which gathered $15 billion in 2008, was
generating a 1.15-times multiple on invested capital and a 5.5
percent net internal rate of return as of Sept. 30, according to
performance data by Oregon Public Employees’ Retirement Fund, an
investor in the fund.  Wealth Effect  Luxury retailers like Neiman Marcus,  Saks Inc. (SKS)  and
 Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  have fared better during the economic recovery
than lower-priced retailers like  Target Corp. (TGT)  Surging stock
markets give the wealthy the confidence to shop, Saks CEO
Stephen Sadove said at an investor conference last week.  Katz has been trying to lure a younger customer by adding
Cusp departments into the main stores. The Cusp name -- meant to
evoke emerging, cutting-edge fashion trends -- was applied to
the company’s contemporary women’s departments to better serve
customers in their 30s to 50s who shop at the boutiques where
the brand started.  Neiman Marcus first introduced the Cusp boutique concept in
2006. That chain, which has its own website, sells brands such
as Theory, Rag & Bone and Alice + Olivia.  In its first international foray, Neiman Marcus also
developed a new namesake e-commerce website with Hong Kong-based
Glamour Sales Holding. Neiman Marcus debuted the site last year.  The company hasn’t recovered all of the sales volume it
lost during the U.S. economic slump because so-called
aspirational shoppers have been slow to return to the store. The
retailer reported revenue of $4.35 billion in its most recent
full fiscal year, which ended in July, down from its peak of
$4.6 billion four years earlier.  Neiman Marcus’s fiscal second-quarter net income gained 0.9
percent to $40.4 million as sales advanced 6.5 percent to $1.36
billion. The company is carrying debt of $2.71 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
David Welch in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  