-- Rio Tinto Says ‘Tough’ Energy, Aluminum Units Need Cost Cutting
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-05-05T01:44:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/rio-tinto-says-tough-energy-aluminum-units-need-cost-cutting.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  needs to cut costs to
remain competitive amid ‘very tough times’ for its aluminum,
coal and uranium businesses, Chief Executive Officer  Sam Walsh 
said.  China’s economy  dipped in the first three months of the
year and the world economy remains volatile, the head of the
London-based company said today in an interview with Nine
Entertainment Co. television.  Waning global demand for commodities is prompting Rio and
rival miners of commodities from gold to coal to trim assets and
staff as they are squeezed by unfavorable foreign exchange
rates, falling prices and rising costs.  Iron ore , which accounts
for  91 percent  of Rio Tinto’s net income,  fell 4.5 percent  last
week to its lowest level this year.  Cost cutting “is not easy, this is a process that is very,
very tough, but we need to get on top of it because we need to
have a business that will be competitive,” Walsh said. “When I
look at both our energy and our aluminum business, they’re going
through very tough times.”  The company is cutting 217 jobs at its London head office
as part of $5 billion in planned cost reductions, and will trim
2013  capital spending  to $13 billion from $17 billion last year.  In February  Rio Tinto  announced its first full-year loss
after taking a $14 billion writedown on the value of its
aluminum and coal assets, including a $38 billion cash deal for
Alcan Inc. in 2007 that made it the world’s second-largest
producer of aluminum.  The price of copper, seen as a bellwether commodity due to
its range of industrial uses, gyrated last week as downbeat
industrial data from  China  contrasted with better-than-expected
U.S. job growth. Copper for delivery in three months at the
London Metal Exchange hit an 18-month low May 1 before recording
its biggest one-day jump over a similar period May 3.  “We’re in for more volatile times,” Walsh said today.
“The world is an uncertain place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  