-- S&P 500 Velocity Seen in Best Defensive Rally Since 2011
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-05-06T20:09:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/s-p-500-velocity-seen-in-defensive-stocks-best-rally-since-ltcm.html
American companies with earnings least
tied to the economy are  beating  so-called cyclical shares by the
widest margin since August 2011, a sign that almost always means
a bull market will accelerate.  Defensive shares such as  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Procter &
Gamble Co . have rallied 19 percent on average in 2013, the best
start since 1991, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Defensives exceeded cyclical stocks by more than 8 percentage
points last month, the most in 20 months, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
data show. As long as the economy isn’t shrinking, gaps of that
size have presaged rallies of 10 percent in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index since 1973, according to JPMorgan.  Bulls say investor preference for stocks that do better in
sluggish economies is a contrarian indicator that’s already
giving way to bigger gains among technology and energy shares.
Bears say the trend shows investors are losing confidence at the
same time as chief executive officers, who have  lowered  earnings
forecasts at the fastest rate for any first quarter since 2001,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Contrarian theories often work because if everyone is
committed to one side, then there’s not much more firepower
left,”  Donald Selkin , a 37-year Wall Street veteran who helps
manage about $3 billion of assets as the chief market strategist
at National Securities Corp. in  New York , said in a May 3 phone
interview. “We could see a change in leadership in the market
if the perception becomes that the economy is strengthening.”  Cyclical Revival  The S&P 500  advanced  2 percent last week to 1,614.42, as
home sales rose, jobless claims unexpectedly fell and profit at
companies from Avon Products Inc. to Seagate Technology Plc beat
analyst estimates. Technology shares and energy stocks led the
 gains  for a second week after trailing the market for the
previous five, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The  S&P 500 
added 0.2 percent to 1,617.50 at 4 p.m. New York time today.  Individuals and funds have poured money into drugmakers and
household-product suppliers, speculating they provide safety
because their products are in demand whether the economy shrinks
or expands. The buying is mirrored in investment in exchange-
traded funds that track stock indexes.  Outstanding shares rose by 17 percent this year in the
biggest ETFs for  health-care  and  consumer staples  companies,
whose largest holdings are  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J
and Procter & Gamble in Cincinnati, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Investors liquidated holdings in the largest
energy ETF and the Powershares QQQ Trust, which own Exxon Mobil
Corp. in  Irvine ,  Texas , and Cupertino, California-based Apple
Inc., the data show.  Bullish Signal  Outperformance by defensive industries has been a bullish
sign for the S&P 500 in past  bull markets , with the index
gaining eight of 10 times over the next quarter, according to
industry baskets compiled by JPMorgan. When defensives led by a
margin approaching last month’s, in July 2009, the S&P 500
gained 22 percent.  Defensives beat cyclicals during the September 1998
collapse of hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management LP and its
bailout by a group of Wall Street firms and the  Federal Reserve .
The S&P 500 lost 19 percent between July 17 and Oct. 8 in 1998.
A group of utilities, phone companies, health-care stocks and
household-product suppliers exceeded cyclicals by 8.2 percentage
points in the four weeks ending Oct. 9, JPMorgan data shows. The
S&P 500 gained 30 percent over the next 90 days, the data show.  ‘Human Nature’  “This is human nature,”  James Paulsen , who oversees $325
billion as the Minneapolis-based chief investment strategist at
Wells Capital Management, said in a May 1 phone interview. “If
you’re a risk-averse investor already, you come into the market
slowly. It’s only once you’ve been in for a while and the
market’s been treating you well that you get more aggressive.”  Defensive industries are rallying as the  market  enters a
period that has seen its biggest declines over the last three
years. The S&P 500 has  posted  an average loss of 15 percent
starting in April since 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
No such retreat has occurred this year. The benchmark gauge for
American equities is up  13 percent , rising every month since
October, and closed at records four times last week.  At the same time, earnings growth is slowing. Profits in
the S&P 500 are forecast to rise 2 percent in the quarter ending
March 30. That compares with 4.7 percent on average last year
and 25 percent in 2010 and 2011, Bloomberg data show.  About two companies have predicted earnings will be  below 
analyst estimates for each that says they will be  above 
forecasts since April 8, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The ratio is twice as high as in the last three
years.  Vulnerable Market  The S&P 500’s advance makes it more vulnerable to
disappointing economic growth and  Europe ’s recession, according
to Thomas Garcia of Thornburg Investment Management Inc., which
manages $80 billion. At 15.8  times  annual earnings, the index’s
valuation is higher than any time since 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The U.S. and Chinese economies grew less than forecast last
quarter. The  European Central Bank  cut its key  interest rate  to
a record low last week, as manufacturing output contracted in
April for a 21st straight month, according to figures from
London-based Markit Economics.  “I don’t think Europe’s out of the woods yet, and you’re
starting to see a slowdown in  China , which is definitely
worrying some people,” Garcia, head of equity trading at  Santa
Fe , New Mexico-based Thornburg, said by telephone May 2. “I’m
still worried going forward. There are definitely things to be
bearish about.”  Defensive Buying  Individuals have added shares in companies whose earnings
are least reliant on economic growth to make up for declining
bond yields. The average dividend payout on defensive stocks in
the S&P 500 is 2.7 percent, compared with 1.8 percent for so-
called cyclical shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That compares with rates on 10-year U.S. government notes of
1.63 percent.  Investors are collecting less on  government bonds  from the
U.S. to  Germany  and the U.K., which are near negative returns
after accounting for inflation. So-called real yields on 10-year
Treasuries are about 0.15 percent. Similar measures are negative
0.03 percent in Germany and negative 1.17 percent in the U.K.  “There’s a lust for yield that exists around the world,
both from institutions and individuals,” John Stoltzfus, chief
equity strategist at New York-based Oppenheimer & Co., said in a
May 2 phone interview. “If they can’t get it in bonds, where do
they go? It’s moving to equities, and the first place is those
proxies for fixed income: telecom, utilities, large-cap
pharma.”  Consumer, Technology  While defensive stocks led this year, industries with
earnings tied to the economy have generated the biggest returns
since March 2009. Consumer discretionary  shares  are up 250
percent, followed by banks at 203 percent, industrial companies
at 175 percent and technology suppliers at 136 percent. Phone
companies have the smallest return at 88 percent, while power
producers gained 89 percent.  At 18.8 times annual profits, defensive industries are
trading at a 19 percent valuation premium to the market,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Morgan Stanley.
Shares of defensive companies have returned the least in every
bull market since at least 1990, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and Birinyi Associates Inc. in Westport,  Connecticut .  “Contrarian investing may be another way of saying that
valuations matter,”  Stephen Wood , who helps manage about $163
billion as the New York-based chief market strategist for  North
America  at Russell Investments, said by telephone on May 3.
“Right now peace of mind has gotten very expensive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  