-- U.K. Parliament’s Deputy Speaker Denies ‘False’ Rape Allegation
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-05-05T10:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/u-k-parliament-s-deputy-speaker-denies-false-rape-allegation.html
Nigel Evans, the Deputy Speaker of the
U.K. House of Commons, said he was “incredulous” after he was
arrested on suspicion of rape and sexual assault in connection
with allegations by two men.  Evans, 55, a Conservative lawmaker who announced he was gay
in 2010, was arrested yesterday in his electoral district in
Lancashire, northern  England , over alleged offenses against the
men in their 20s between July 2009 and March 2013, local police
said in a statement. He was released on bail late in the
evening.  “Yesterday I was interviewed by the police concerning two
complaints, one of which dates back four years, made by two
people who’re well known to each other and who until yesterday I
regarded as friends,” Evans told reporters outside his house
today. “The complaints are completely false. I cannot
understand why they’ve been made, especially as I have continued
to socialize with one until as recently as last week.”  He said his reaction was “a sense of incredulity” and he
thanked constituents and colleagues for their support. Defense
Secretary Philip Hammond, a fellow Conservative, told the BBC he
was “very shocked” by the allegations against Evans.  “I know Nigel well,” Hammond said. “I’ve known him for
years. I’m obviously as shocked as everybody else is by the
revelations in this morning’s papers.”  Evans is one of three deputies to Commons Speaker John Bercow who chair debates in Parliament in his absence. Hammond
said Evans might have to step aside from this role while the
investigation continued.  “Nigel is denying the accusations,” Hammond said. “I
stick rigidly to the view that we should treat people as
innocent until proven guilty, but it is quite difficult to carry
out a sensitive and high-profile role while being under this
kind of scrutiny.”  Foreign Secretary  William Hague , who described himself as a
longstanding friend of Evans, told  Sky News : “He’s a very
popular and well-respected member of parliament. We will all be
very sorry to see this situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  