-- U.S. Official Saw Benghazi Attack as Not Spontaneous
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-05-05T17:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/u-s-official-saw-benghazi-attack-as-not-spontaneous.html
The second-ranking U.S. official in
 Libya  during last year’s deadly attack on the mission in
Benghazi immediately considered it a terrorist attack rather
than a spontaneous event, according to a transcript of his
interview with congressional investigators.  “I thought it was a terrorist attack from the get-go,”
Gregory Hicks, a foreign service officer and former deputy chief
of Libyan operations, told investigators, according to excerpts
of the interview displayed today on CBS’s “Face the Nation”
program. “I never reported a demonstration, I reported an
attack on the consulate.”  His account contrasted with comments made by  Susan Rice ,
U.S. ambassador to the  United Nations , after the attack on Sept.
11, 2012. She said it grew out of a “spontaneous”
demonstration against an anti-Islamic video that was
“hijacked” by militants. Hicks said he wasn’t contacted by
State Department officials before Rice spoke on five Sunday talk
shows Sept. 16, according to the interview with congressional
investigators.  The Benghazi attack killed four Americans including
Ambassador Christopher Stevens and became a flashpoint in last
year’s presidential campaign. Republicans criticized officials
including Rice for their early accounts of the circumstances.  Hicks is scheduled to testify at a May 8 hearing of the
House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. Committee
Chairman  Darrell Issa , a California Republican, in a May 1
statement announcing the hearing, accused President  Barack Obama ’s administration of offering “a carefully selected and
sanitized version” of the Benghazi attack.  Political Decision  “Clearly there was a political decision to say something
different than what was reasonable to say,” Issa said today on
CBS.  Other potential witnesses with firsthand knowledge of the
Benghazi attack have been “suppressed” by the administration,
Representative  Jason Chaffetz , a Utah Republican, said on “Fox
News Sunday.”  “There are people, more than one, that have felt
intimidation from the State Department,” Chaffetz said.  An April 23 report by Republicans in the U.S. House said
the Obama administration presented “misleading” talking points
after the attack and removed references to the threat of
extremists linked to al-Qaeda in eastern Libya, including
information about at least five other attacks against foreign
interests in Benghazi.  Shawn Turner, a spokesman for Director of National
Intelligence  James Clapper , issued a Sept. 28 statement, 12 days
after Rice’s appearances, saying the intelligence community had
revised its initial assessment and concluded the assault was “a
deliberate and organized terrorist attack.”  ‘Scrubbed’ Report  Speaking today on “Fox News Sunday,” Representative
Stephen Lynch, a Massachusetts Democrat and member of the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said there was ’’no
excuse’’’ for the administration’s talking points about the
attacks.  “It was scrubbed. It was totally inaccurate,” he said.
“It was false information.”  Asked whether Rice’s talking points were revised because an
al-Qaeda attack didn’t fit with the 2012 Obama presidential
campaign’s narrative that the terrorist group was on the run,
Lynch said: “I think it was a victory of hope over reality, to
be honest with you. They were hoping that this wasn’t the
case.”  Still, Lynch said allegations of administration
intimidation of potential witnesses were “completely false.”  Witnesses  In addition to Hicks, the witnesses scheduled to testify
before Issa’s committee May 8 are  Mark Thompson , acting deputy
assistant secretary of state for counterterrorism, and Eric
Nordstrom, a diplomatic security officer who had been a regional
security officer in Libya.  “They have critical information about what occurred
before, during and after the Benghazi terrorist attacks that
differs on key points from administration officials,” Issa said
in a statement.  The Obama administration and congressional Democrats said
Republicans are playing politics with the Benghazi incident.  “The politicization of this issue is unfortunate, and it
continues unabated,” White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said at a
May 1 briefing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  