-- Pacers Top Knicks on Road in NBA Series Opener After Thunder Win
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/thunder-rally-past-grizzlies-in-first-game-of-nba-playoff-series.html
The Indiana Pacers became the first
visiting team to win the opening game in 10 playoff series this
National Basketball Association postseason with a 102-95 victory
at the New York Knicks.  The Pacers’ win yesterday came after the Oklahoma City
Thunder overcame a 10-point deficit during the fourth quarter to
beat the Memphis Grizzlies 93-91 in Game 1 of their second-round
series in Oklahoma City. Home teams had won the opening game in
all eight first-round series.  “They played harder than our team, that’s the
difference,” Knicks coach  Mike Woodson  said after his team was
outrebounded 44-30 and allowed more than 100 points for the
first time this postseason. “We gotta play harder across the
board for us to get out of this series.”  The Pacers trailed 27-22 at New York’s Madison Square
Garden before outscoring the Knicks 59-38 over the second and
third quarters to take the lead for good.  David West  scored 20 points and  Paul George  had 19 for the
third-seeded Pacers, while D.J. Augustin added 16 points in 13
minutes off the bench, hitting 5-of-6 shot attempts.  “We just did a great job of taking advantage or our size,
getting some second shots,” West said.  The Knicks’ top two scorers on the season,  Carmelo Anthony 
and J.R. Smith, combined to miss 29 of 43 shots in the team’s
first appearance in the conference semifinals in 13 years.
Anthony finished with 27 points to lead the Knicks, while
 Raymond Felton  scored 18. The teams had split their four
regular-season meetings, with the Pacers and Knicks each winning
twice at home.  Road Win  With the postseason’s first Game 1 road win, the Pacers
grabbed home-court advantage as they could host three of the
next six games. Game 2 in the best-of-seven series is scheduled
tomorrow in New York before the next two games in Indianapolis.  The NBA’s other two second-round series begin tonight, with
the defending-champion Miami Heat hosting the  Chicago Bulls  in
the Eastern Conference and the Golden State Warriors visiting
the San Antonio Spurs in the West.  The Thunder, the top seed in the Western Conference,
outscored Memphis 29-18 during the fourth quarter in their
series opener yesterday.  Kevin Durant , who led Oklahoma City
with 35 points and 15 rebounds, put his team ahead for good by
hitting a jump shot with 11.1 seconds remaining.  Durant’s go-ahead basket came off a pass from  Derek Fisher ,
who had stolen the ball from Memphis’s  Mike Conley  with the
Thunder trailing by one point in the final minute.  ‘Resilient’  “We did a good job of being resilient,” Durant said. “We
knew what we had to do and we came out and did it.”  Game 2 in the conference semifinal series is scheduled for
Oklahoma City’s Chesapeake Energy Arena tomorrow.  Kevin Martin added 25 points for the Thunder, who were
eliminated in seven games at the same stage two years ago by the
Grizzlies.  Marc Gasol  had 20 points and 10 rebounds to lead
Memphis, which won two of three prior games against the Thunder
this season, while  Zach Randolph  had 18 points and 10 rebounds.  “They earned it,” Grizzlies coach Lionel Hollins said.
“We had some opportunities we just didn’t execute and Durant
made some big plays. We just weren’t able to sustain in the
fourth quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  