-- Tunisian Festival Unites Jews With Muslims After Violence
-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-05-05T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/tunisian-festival-unites-jews-with-muslims-after-violence.html
A whitewashed synagogue gleams in the
sunlight as Saidia Ben Khayat, a basket of raw eggs in hand,
labors up a winding path on Tunisia’s Djerba island.  “I’ve come to congratulate the Jews, and wrote on some of
these eggs my wish that my sons will get married,” says the 63-year-old Muslim, as she approaches the El Ghriba synagogue,
 Africa ’s oldest.  The journey to the synagogue is part of Lag BaOmer, a
Jewish holiday marking the end of an ancient plague that nearly
wiped out a generation of scholars. It has been celebrated on
the island for about 200 years, and at its height attracted tens
of thousands of pilgrims from around the world.  Nowadays, only a few hundred people turn up, and
festivities take place amid high security. That’s partly because
of lingering memories of al-Qaeda’s 2002 truck bomb attack,
which killed 21 people. It’s also because two years after the
downfall of President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, the struggle
between moderate and hardline Islam plays out daily.  As pilgrims walk on police-lined streets and past
ambulances park near checkpoints, helicopters hover above. There
is no violence this year. While locals say they are relieved,
they are not too surprised, because Muslims and Jews live on
Djerba in near-perfect harmony.  “There is no alienation between us,” says Khamsana Zaafran,
a 61-year-old Tunisian Jew. “We buy and sell from each other,
visit each other, there are rarely any problems between us.”  Blue Sky  Men and women of all ages, some carrying babies and holding
young children’s hands, begin arriving at the synagogue in small
groups. They walk up the hill, their brightly colored clothes
standing out against the deep blue sky.  Inside El Ghriba pilgrims light candles, say prayers, and
write wishes on eggs that they place in the wall of the inner
sanctuary.  Locals say the synagogue was named in honor of a Jewish
refugee who once lived on the island and was known as “El
Ghriba,” meaning ’stranger’ or ’the miraculous’ in Arabic.
According to one tale, she survived a fire that engulfed her
cabin, and people subsequently began visiting her to seek
guidance on getting married or overcoming infertility.  At the height of Lag BaOmer, the Grande Menorah is paraded
through the streets of Harah Sghira village, covered with silk
scarves, in a ceremony signifying the mystical union between the
people of Israel and the Divinity.  Jerusalem Stone  Locals say El Ghriba was built by exiles who fled  Jerusalem 
after the Babylonians destroyed the first Temple in 586 B.C.,
bringing with them a stone from those ruins. It has been rebuilt
several times and its mosaics and turquoise columns date back to
the 19th century.  At one time, there were about 100,000 Jews in Tunisia. That
number dropped with the creation of Israel in 1948 and with
Tunisia’s independence from  France  in 1956, and then again after
anti-Semitic riots during the 1967 Six Day War.  About 1,600 Jews now live in Tunisia, mostly in the capital
Tunis and Djerba, said Peres Trabelsi, a community leader. The
island has about 20 synagogues and prayer houses, of which El
Ghriba, in the north, is the most famous.  For some pilgrims, traveling to the island is a chance to
reconnect with their roots.  “Taking part is a dream come true,” said Bazalel Raviv, 31,
whose parents emigrated from Tunisia to  Israel  in 1951. “It is
beyond description.”  Security Tests  This year’s event, held from April 26 to 28, was the second
time the ritual has been held since the 2011 uprising. It tested
the Islamist-led government’s ability to provide security after
the February killing of an opposition leader, which sent
Tunisians into the streets to denounce authorities they said
were unable, or unwilling, to protect minorities.  Israel had advised citizens not to attend last year because 
of the risk of violence from Salafists, whose members have 
clashed with students over dancing and stormed concerts and art 
galleries.  In November, the imam of a mosque south of Tunis delivered
a sermon calling for Jews to be wiped out, and during a rally
for Sharia law in March 2012, another cleric called on youths to 
fight Jews. The comments were denounced by the religious affairs 
ministry, which said Tunisia Jews are full citizens.  The success of the pilgrimage in face of those threats “is
a positive indicator for the next tourist season,” Tourism
Minister Jamel Gamra said. Tunisia hopes to attract 7 million
tourists by the end of the year, he said.  Tunisia relies on tourism as well as exports, mining and
agriculture for growth. Tourist arrivals reached 6 million in
2012. That’s up from 4.8 million in 2011, though it still falls
short of the year before the uprising, when 6.9 million arrivals
were recorded, according to World Tourism Organization data.  At the synagogue’s door, Belgace Jlidi, distributes kippas
and veils to visitors.  “I don’t find any embarrassment working here,” the 60-year-old Muslim says. “We have lived as brothers for a long time.”  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on opera,  Jorg
von Uthmann  on Paris art and  Elin McCoy  on wine.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Jihen Laghmari in Tunis at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 