-- Venezuela Says Held U.S. Man Using Filmmaker Role as ‘Front’
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-05-05T20:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/venezuela-says-held-u-s-man-using-filmmaker-role-as-front-.html
A U.S. man held in  Venezuela  on
suspicion of espionage was playing the part of a documentary
filmmaker to penetrate the government’s circle of supporters,
Interior Minister Miguel Rodriguez Torres said today.  Timothy Tracy, 35, was arrested at Caracas’s airport while
leaving the country and charged April 27 with conspiracy, use of
false documents and association with delinquency. While the
Venezuelan government says he was financing opposition groups to
generate violence following a contested April 14 election, his
lawyer said he was making a documentary about political
divisions in Venezuela.  “When you want to do intelligence work in another country,
like all of those big intelligence agencies that do espionage
work, you use a facade of being a filmmaker, a photographer or
journalist because that way you can enter anywhere,” Rodriguez
said today in an interview on Caracas-based broadcaster Televen.
Tracy had a relationship with opposition groups that “went
beyond that which a journalist or documentary maker could have
and which is typical of experts in clandestine operations.”  Tensions between Venezuela and the U.S. have escalated
since the death of  Hugo Chavez  triggered an emergency election
in which his handpicked successor Nicolas Maduro was declared
the winner with a 1.49 percentage point margin. Opposition
challenger Henrique Capriles Radonski contested the result
before the  Supreme Court , claiming fraud. Maduro said yesterday
that U.S. President  Barack Obama  is directly financing violent
opposition groups in a bid to generate a “war of dogs” that
would justify an intervention in  South America ’s largest oil
producer.  Engendering Violence  Rodriguez said Venezuelan authorities have evidence
including 500 videos shot by Tracy and e-mail correspondence he
had with opposition groups in which they talk of engendering
violence in the country.  The U.S. rejects allegations that it’s trying to
destabilize Venezuela while believing a full recount of votes
would alleviate doubts about the electoral process, State
Department spokesman Patrick Ventrell said in an e-mail. The
Venezuelan government hasn’t granted U.S. consular access to
Tracy, he said.  “The prudent and essential approach now is to undertake
the recount and the review of alleged irregularities in a
prompt, transparent, and inclusive manner, in order to assure
the Venezuelan people that their democratic aspirations are
being met,” Ventrell said.  The margin of victory in the election has plunged the
country into a political crisis, with Maduro accusing Capriles
of trying to orchestrate a coup after his supporters took to the
streets in the days following the election to demand a recount
of votes. State Prosecutor Luisa Ortega Diaz said the protests
left nine government supporters dead and dozens of health
centers damaged by acts of vandalism.  Bloodied Faces  Capriles says the government has become increasingly
authoritarian, highlighting how opposition lawmakers were left
with bloodied faces and fractured noses in brawl in the National
Assembly after they staged a protest against the chamber’s
President Diosdado Cabello for withholding their salaries and
denying them the right to speak in parliament until they
recognize Maduro as president.  Obama, who visited  Mexico  and  Costa Rica  this week, said in
an interview on the  Coral Gables , Florida-based Spanish--
language television station Univision on May 3 that “the entire
hemisphere has been watching the violence, the protests, the
crackdown on the opposition.” Human rights, democracy, freedom
of speech and assembly in Venezuela “have not been fully
observed post-election,” he said.  ‘Imperialist Attitude’  Maduro’s predecessor Chavez frequently clashed with the
U.S. for what he said was its “imperialist” attitude to  Latin
America  and riled  Washington  by forging alliances with states
such as  Iran , Syria and  Libya . The U.S. imposed sanctions on
state-owned oil company Petroleos de Venezuela SA in 2011 for
defying a U.S. ban and selling at least two cargoes of gasoline
additive to Iran.  Hours before announcing Chavez’s death from cancer March 5,
Maduro expelled two U.S. officials he accused of meeting with
Venezuelan military officers in a bid to destabilize the nation.
The countries cast out each other’s diplomatic envoys after
Chavez rejected the U.S. ambassadorial nominee to Venezuela,
 Larry Palmer , because he told the Senate Foreign Affairs
Committee in July 2010 that the Chavez government has “clear
ties” to terrorist groups.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  