-- WTI Crude Advances After Syria Blames Israel for Attacks
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2013-05-06T13:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/wti-crude-advances-a-third-day-as-syria-says-attacked-by-israel.html
West Texas Intermediate crude erased
gains and fell from the highest level in a month after air
strikes in  Syria  renewed concern that turmoil in the Middle East
may worsen and disrupt supply from the biggest producing region.  WTI futures climbed 1.6 percent in New York before dropping
as much as 73 cents. Syria’s state news agency said Israeli
aircraft attacked a military research center on the outskirts of
Damascus yesterday. The offensive was a “declaration of war,”
Syria’s Deputy Foreign Minister Faisal al-Mekdad told  CNN .
 Israel  didn’t confirm involvement. WTI capped a second weekly
gain May 3 after U.S. employment rose more than forecast.  “Political risk is back on the map,” Thina Saltvedt, an
Oslo-based analyst at Nordea Bank AB, said today by telephone.
“What’s happening in Syria has got the market’s attention.”  WTI for June delivery declined as much as 70 cents to
$94.91 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange and was at $95 at 1:55 p.m. London time. The volume for
all contracts traded was 126 percent the 100-day average.
Futures increased $1.62 to $95.61 on May 3, the highest close
since April 2. Prices climbed 2.8 percent last week.  U.K. Holiday  Brent for June settlement was unchanged at $104.19 a barrel
on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange, after rising by
as much as $1.30, or 1.3 percent. The front-month European
benchmark was at a premium of $9.12 to WTI futures. It ended the
session on May 3 at $8.58, the narrowest differential based on
closing prices since December 2011. Markets in the U.K. are
closed for a public holiday.  “Prices jumped on risk premiums after the Syrian
explosions,” Bjarne Schieldrop, the head of commodity research
at SEB AB, said by phone from Oslo. “With the U.K. closed, it
may be hard to move prices too much.”  The attack opens doors to all possibilities and Syria will
use “any means” to protect its people, Omran al-Zoubi, the
country’s information minister, said in a statement on state TV.
Syria deployed rocket batteries directed toward Israel, the pro-
government Damas Post website said.  The Israeli army said it deployed two Iron Dome missile
defense systems in the country’s north. The Middle East
accounted for 33 percent of global crude output in 2011,
according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  U.S. Unemployment  American employers took on more workers than forecast in
April and the jobless rate fell unexpectedly to a four-year low
of 7.5 percent, U.S. Labor Department figures showed on May 3.
The data reflected confidence in the outlook for the world’s
biggest economy as payrolls expanded by 165,000, an addition of
25,000 workers more than the median forecast of expectations
from 90 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The April results
followed an upwardly revised 138,000 increase in March.  Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the largest crude exporter, raised
the June premium used to set official selling prices for its
Arab Light blend for buyers in Asia and trimmed discounts on all
grades to the Mediterranean and Europe.  The state-owned producer known as Saudi Aramco increased
the monthly premium for the Light blend by 20 cents to $2 a
barrel more than the average of Oman and Dubai grades, the
company said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. Aramco cut the
discount for Arab Heavy to Asia in half, narrowing it to 70
cents less than the Gulf benchmarks.  WTI’s rally may stall as futures approach a technical
resistance level along a downward-sloping trend line going back
to September, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This
line, around $96.75 a barrel today, connects to the high of
January and is where prices halted advances in February and
March. Sell orders tend to be clustered near chart-resistance
levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  