-- Euro Falls as Draghi Says ECB Prepared to Act; Ringgit Rises
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-05-06T21:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/yen-falls-toward-100-per-dollar-on-signs-u-s-economy-picking-up.html
The euro fell against the dollar after
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers
are ready to cut  interest rates  again if needed after reducing
them to a record low last week.  The yen dropped for a third day, trading at almost 100 per
dollar, as a decline in the U.S. jobless rate to a four-year low
fueled optimism that growth isn’t faltering and reduced demand
for  Japan ’s currency as a haven.  Australia ’s currency slid after
a report today showed retail sales shrank. The Malaysian ringgit
rose to the highest in 1 1/2 years against the dollar after
Prime Minister Najib Razak’s coalition was re-elected.  “After the rate cut, it’s clear that if they don’t see
economic improvement they’re going to go again,”  Fabian Eliasson , vice president of corporate foreign-exchange sales at
 Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. The euro “didn’t really fall through any specific
levels.”  The 17-nation currency dropped 0.3 percent to $1.3076 as of
5 p.m. New York time. The yen slid 0.3 percent to 99.33 per
dollar after touching 99.45, the weakest level since April 25.
It plunged to a four-year low of 99.95 on April 11. It was about
unchanged at 129.88 per euro.  Markets in Japan and the U.K. were closed today for
holidays.  Trading Volume  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $21 billion, compared with turnover of $36 billion on
May 3, according to data reported by U.S. banks to the
Depository Trust Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume
in options on the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $7.6
billion, the largest share of trades at 31 percent. Dollar
versus Chinese currency options were the second most-actively
traded, at $4.5 billion, or 22 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 31 percent below the average
of the past five Mondays at a similar time in the day, and
Chinese  yuan  trading rose more than 500 percent, according to
Bloomberg analysis.  The yuan fell in Hong Kong’s offshore market by the most in
15 months and the onshore spot rate retreated from a 19-year
high as China stepped up scrutiny of cash transfers from abroad.
The yuan weakened 0.18 percent in  Shanghai  to close at 6.1667,
the steepest decline since December, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System.  Aussie, Ringgit  In Australia,  retail sales  unexpectedly fell 0.4 percent in
March after gaining 1.3 percent the previous month, a government
report showed today. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted
a gain of 0.1 percent.  There’s a 51 percent chance that the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia will lower its benchmark 3 percent rate when it meets
tomorrow, Bloomberg calculations based on overnight-index swap
rates indicate.  “We think they are going to cut, but at the end of the
day, we’re still in this really broad dollar range,” Peter Gorra, chief dealer in New York at BNP Paribas SA, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money” with Julie Hyman. “The market is saturated now. They’re long Aussie,
they’ve had it on for years, they’re looking at other
opportunities, be it Mexico, Canada and other  emerging
markets .”  The so-called Aussie weakened 0.6 percent to $1.0254.  The Malaysian ringgit gained as much as 2.3 percent to
2.9625 per dollar, the strongest since September 2011. Najib’s
coalition extended its 55-year rule, giving him a mandate to
continue his economic reforms and deliver $444 billion of
infrastructure and other investments by 2020.  Euro, Yen  The euro dropped after Draghi said, during a speech in
 Rome , “we will be looking at all the data that arrives from the
euro-area economy in the coming weeks and, if necessary, we are
ready to act again.” The ECB last week reduced its key interest
rate to an all-time low, and Draghi said policy makers had an
open mind on a negative deposit rate.  “Draghi’s shift in language on the deposit rate last week
was a clear signal that the ECB is prepared to act on the
deposit rate should conditions warrant,” said Brian Daingerfield, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  The yen depreciated beyond 99 per dollar on May 3 for the
first time in a week after a U.S. Labor Department report showed
employment picked up more than forecast and the jobless rate
declined to 7.5 percent. Payrolls expanded by 165,000 workers
last month following a revised 138,000 increase in March that
was larger than first estimated.  Risk ‘Adjusting’  “That at the very least is keeping dollar-yen supported,”
 Geoffrey Yu , a senior currency strategist in London at UBS AG,
said of last week’s U.S. employment report. “Risk is slightly
adjusting.”  The dollar has gained 1.1 percent over the past six months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that track
10 developed market currencies. The euro has risen 3.8 percent.  The yen has slumped 21 percent, the worst performer on the
indexes, in anticipation of expanded stimulus from the  Bank of
Japan  that culminated in the April 4 decision to double monthly
bond purchases in pursuit of a 2 percent annual inflation
target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  