-- Zimbabwe Proposes Mineral Deposit Auctions, Policy Shows
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-05-05T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-05/zimbabwe-proposes-mineral-deposit-auctions-policy-shows.html
Zimbabwe  is considering auctioning
mineral deposits, restricting production of commodities deemed
strategic and having the state sell the output from all mines,
according to a draft policy document obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The proposals are made in a minerals policy prepared by the
Ministry of Mines and Minerals, which is yet to be released
publicly. The ministry will start discussing the policy with the
 mining industry  tomorrow, Prince Mupazviriho, permanent
secretary for mines, said by phone from the capital, Harare, on
May 3, declining to comment on the contents of the draft.  The country needs “an open, transparent and competitive
auction procedure for known mineral deposits,” the ministry
says in the policy. “The State of Zimbabwe reserves the right
to market the people’s mineral assets, but undertakes to
recompense the miner at fair and transparent market prices for
mineral exports.”  Miners including  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd (IMP) , and Rio
Tinto Group are currently free to market their own minerals. The
policy comes after companies including Impala and  Anglo American
Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  agreed to comply with an existing law to cede 51
percent stakes in their local assets to black Zimbabweans or the
government.  Zimbabwe has the world’s second-largest platinum and chrome
deposits after  South Africa  as well as deposits of coal, gold,
diamonds and iron ore.  Restricted Output  If implemented the marketing policy will be a reversal of
an earlier liberalization of mineral sales, which formerly had
been undertaken by the Minerals Marketing Corp. of Zimbabwe and,
in the case of gold, a unit of the central bank. Under the
proposal gold and platinum group metals will be sold by a dealer
authorized by the Ministry of Finance and all other minerals
will be sold by the MMCZ.  In addition to the changes to the marketing of minerals the
ministry is proposing auctions of deposits as well as imposing
new taxes, the policy shows.  A resource rent tax, defined as a tax on profits in excess
of an average national return on investment, is proposed to
replace the current additional profits tax. An export tax may
also be imposed to encourage local processing of minerals,
according to the policy.  “The current free mining colonial mineral regime is
inappropriate for using national mineral assets to underpin
wider development and industrialization,” the ministry said in
the policy.  Mining licenses will be awarded for a maximum of 25 years
and minerals including  iron ore , coal, copper and limestone may
be deemed strategic, meaning that their output can be restricted
and their prices of the minerals regulated, the ministry said.  Another state company, the Zimbabwe Mining Development
Corp., may be tasked with producing some minerals to supply
industries and given a three-month period to assess new, state-
financed geological data to decide whether to develop mines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  