-- Horner of U.S. Becomes Oldest Cycling Champ With Vuelta Win
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-09-16T12:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/american-horner-becomes-oldest-cycling-champion-with-vuelta-win.html
Chris Horner of the U.S. became the
oldest winner of one of cycling’s Grand Tour races with victory
in the Vuelta a Espana at age 41.  The RadioShack rider finished  37 seconds  ahead of Vincenzo
Nibali of  Italy  yesterday after the last of 21 stages, a 68-mile
ride from Leganes to Madrid.  Spain ’s Alejandro Valverde, who won
the race in 2009, finished third.  The previous oldest winner of one of cycling’s biggest
three-week stage races was Firmin Lambot, a Belgian who won the
1922 Tour de  France  at 36. The other Grand Tour is the Giro
d’Italia, which the 28-year-old Nibali, who rides for the Astana
team, won in May.  “I have faced younger and great riders like Nibali,
Valverde and Joaquim Rodriguez,” Horner told journalists in
Spain. “They have had a great tour so for me it is a legendary
moment that may not be repeated.”  Horner is the first American to win the Spanish race. He
rode for RadioShack since 2010, when he was a teammate of  Lance Armstrong . The previous biggest race win of his 18-year career
was the 2011 Tour of  California .  The RadioShack team said today that the Spanish anti-doping
agency violated Horner’s privacy after the news wire Europa
Press, citing an unidentified person in the agency, reported
that winner missed a drug test in Madrid this morning.  Hotel Change  According to a  RadioShack team statement , Spanish agency
testers went to the wrong hotel in Madrid, a day after Horner
had e-mailed the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency, or USADA, to say where
he would be staying. The team published the e-mail communication
between Horner and USADA.  Spanish agency spokesman Miguel Angel Adan said it had
carried out a request in good faith for USADA and didn’t find
him at the specified hotel. Adan said he couldn’t comment on the
RadioShack statement.  Trek Bicycle Corp. is taking over the RadioShack squad
after this season. Horner, who lives in Bend,  Oregon , hasn’t yet
agreed to join the team, which has signed riders including  Andy Schleck , Fabian Cancellara and 41-year-old Jens Voigt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  