-- Banks Defer CoCo Sales in Denmark as Beating EU Proves Pointless
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-09-15T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/banks-defer-coco-sales-in-denmark-as-beating-eu-proves-pointless.html
As  Denmark  sets some of Europe’s
first rules to guide its banks through contingent convertible
debt sales, lenders are hesitating to issue the securities until
other countries commit to similar standards.  Denmark said this month banks can use CoCos to fill
individual solvency requirements, provided the securities live
up to national standards set by the financial regulator.   “We still need to know what is going on in  Germany , in
 France , and in the rest of Europe,” Jan Kondrup, director of
Denmark’s Association of Local Banks, said in an interview.
“Right now we are unsure of what the other countries will do.”  The logjam suggests national efforts to move fast and help
banks build capital risk being thwarted. Denmark’s Financial
Supervisory Authority is allowing banks to use CoCos if the
securities convert or absorb losses when a 7 percent core 
equity threshold of risk-weighted assets is breached, matching 
standards in Switzerland and the U.K.  “Our hope is that the rest of  Europe  will also implement 7
percent so there is a broad market,” said Kondrup, whose
association represents 70 community banks in Denmark.  Under European Union regulations adopted earlier this year,
banks can meet a minimum requirement for additional Tier 1
capital of 1.5 percent using CoCos if the securities convert
once core equity drops below 5.125 percent. National regulators
are free to decide whether the instruments can be used to fill
other capital requirements and to set their own conditions.  Crisis Management  In Scandinavia, Denmark’s banks are set to become the main
source of CoCos, according to Thomas Hovard, head of credit
research at  Danske Bank A/S. (DANSKE)   Denmark may also let its too-big-to-fail banks use CoCos to
fill a  crisis management  buffer of 5 percent of risk-weighted
assets that a government-appointed committee recommended in
March. Using the instruments would cap a systemically important
bank’s equity requirement at 10.5 percent, compared with 12
percent in Sweden, according to the March proposal.  There will be “quite a lot of supply,” Hovard said.
“Especially in Denmark it will be a significant market. I would
be surprised if we don’t see the first one this year.”  Denmark’s government-backed committee on systemically
important financial institutions has recommended that the
nation’s six biggest lenders face a trigger of 10.125 percent of
total capital, or 5.125 percent of equity, to convert hybrids
used to fill a crisis management buffer.  Sweden, Norway  Sweden  will consider whether to let banks use CoCos to fill
individual solvency requirements after finalizing the
implementation of the new European capital requirements later
this year, Jonatan Holst, a spokesman with the FSA in  Stockholm , 
said by e-mail. Norway has “no immediate plans” to introduce the
securities, Kjetil Karsrud, an FSA spokesman, said by e-mail.  Danish banks, led by Danske Bank, have welcomed the option
of issuing convertible debt to build up reserves while arguing
in favor of lower triggers. The industry says Denmark’s decision
to set a higher trigger than the 5.125 percent put forward in
the EU directive puts Danish banks at a disadvantage.  “A 5.125 percent threshold is too low for it to kick in,”
Anders Balling, head of banking at the FSA in Copenhagen, said
in an interview. “You have to get the loss absorption earlier
to get time to work on recovery.”  Denmark’s first CoCo is likely to come from a lender that
isn’t subject to too-big-to-fail conditions. The owners of
privately held DLR Kredit A/S, Denmark’s fifth-largest mortgage
bank, earlier this month approved a board proposal allowing the
lender to issue convertible instruments. Jens Moeller, DLR’s
managing director, said in April the bank would seek Sifi
designation. Lawmakers are due to decide in coming weeks.  Pricing Struggle  Banks are struggling to price the securities to make them a
feasible alternative to equity in building capital. Worldwide,
90 CoCos have been issued since 2009 to meet a variety of
 capital requirements , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Average coupons span from a low of 2.24 percent in  Japan  to a
high of 12 percent in Sweden. Banks in the Netherlands and
Ireland also have sold CoCos.  Issuers “have to be very well capitalized to get cheap
funding,” Hovard said.  Equity investors want a return of at least 10 percent,
while yields as low as 6 percent for CoCos filling individual
solvency requirements, and as low as 8 percent for instruments
filling Tier 1 requirements, may satisfy creditors, he said.  Core capital ratios for Danish banks, including hybrids,
climbed more than 2 percentage points in each of the years since
2008, according to the FSA. Core capital rose to 19.19 percent
of risk-weighted assets last year from 10.69 percent in 2008.  “Banks need both Tier 1 and Tier 2” capital, Steen Blaafalk, Danske’s head of group treasury, said in an interview.
“Capital issues are probably going to take off this fall. We’ll
see more banks coming out. The environment is good for it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  