-- Cable Pledges Crackdown on Directors of Failed U.K. Firms
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-09-16T13:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/cable-pledges-crackdown-on-directors-of-failed-u-k-companies.html
U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable
announced a crackdown on reckless company directors, making it
easier to ban them from future board-level roles and for their
victims to sue them for compensation.  Cable has called in the past for prosecutors to look at
whether the people who were running  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc  and HBOS Plc when they collapsed should be banned from
acting as directors. So far, only Peter Cummings of HBOS and
Johnny Cameron of RBS have faced any formal sanction.  At his Liberal Democrat party’s annual conference in
Glasgow,  Scotland , Cable said he’s concluded that courts need to
be allowed to expand the range of factors taken into account
when considering banning someone from acting as a director.  “I am preparing to legislate to make it easier to
prosecute and ban rogue directors who repeatedly walk away from
their debts and their customers,” Cable said. “We Liberal
Democrats see business as a partner not an adversary in creating
responsible capitalism.”  The Institute of Directors warned Cable’s plan may be
counterproductive. “Any corporate enterprise involves risks
which are shared amongst the various company stakeholders, such
as shareholders, creditors, employees and directors,” Simon
Walker, director-general of the IoD said in an e-mailed
statement. “If risk is loaded onto one group -– such as the
directors -– the result will be counterproductive for the wider
economy. The risks and challenges involved in taking on the role
of company director, already significant, will become impossibly
large.”  Liberal Democrat leader  Nick Clegg , the deputy prime
minister, told BBC Radio 5 earlier that he wants to see “new
criminal sanctions” on those responsible for failing financial
institutions.  ‘Scot-Free’  “I don’t think we can have this buck-passing culture in
some of our banks where people mess things up; everybody else --
all other taxpayers in the country -- had to bail them out and
they got away with it pretty well scot-free,” Clegg said.
“That culture has to end. We cannot ever again have people like
that putting a gun to the head of the rest of the British
economy.”  In a speech with the theme of ensuring fairness for both
high and low earners, Cable asked the Low Pay Commission to
report on “how we might achieve a higher  minimum wage  without
damaging employment.” His office said faster increases wouldn’t
be inflationary. The wage is set to rise to 6.31 pounds ($10.02)
an hour on Oct. 1 from 6.19 pounds.  ‘Zero Hours’  Cable also announced a consultation on “zero-hours”
contracts, which allow employers to take on staff without
guaranteeing them a minimum amount of work. Opposition Labour
Party leader  Ed Miliband  said last week that such contracts
should be restricted. Cable will call for greater transparency
about their operation and for rules to stop employers exploiting
staff.  The speech echoed words from Clegg, who on Sept. 14
attacked the party’s Conservative coalition partners, saying
they wanted to take away workers’ rights. Cable argued that the
presence of Liberal Democrats in the government since 2010 has
blocked such moves. The party is trying to persuade voters it
has made a difference in government in the runup to the next
general election in 2015.  Cable also announced moves to increase transparency about
corporate ownership, to make money-laundering and tax evasion
harder.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  