-- Seahawks Roll Past 49ers 29-3 as Broncos Top Giants: NFL Week 2
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-16T05:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/chiefs-down-cowboys-to-match-last-season-s-win-tally-nfl-week-2.html
The  Seattle  Seahawks defeated the
San Francisco 49ers 29-3 as Marshawn Lynch scored three
touchdowns in a showdown of division rivals and two of the
National Football League’s leading Super Bowl contenders.  The Seahawks’ defense limited the 49ers to 207 yards of
offense and forced quarterback Colin Kaepernick into four
turnovers last night in Seattle, where the game was delayed for
an hour during the first quarter due to lightning.  “We showed we’re on another level,” Seahawks cornerback
Richard Sherman said in a televised interview.  Seattle’s win capped a day in which the Denver Broncos
pulled away for a 41-23 over the New York Giants, helping Peyton Manning remain undefeated in three NFL matchups against his
younger brother Eli, and Aaron Rodgers passed for a career-high
480 yards with four touchdowns in leading the Green Bay Packers
to a 38-20 rout of the Washington Redskins.  Ten of the other 12 Week 2 games were decided by a
touchdown or less, including five that were won yesterday in the
final 10 seconds or overtime. In the opening week of the regular
season, 12 of 16 games were decided by a touchdown or less, tied
for the most during any weekend in NFL history.  The Houston Texans beat the Tennessee Titans 30-24 in
overtime on a three-yard touchdown pass from Matt Schaub to
DeAndre Hopkins, becoming the first team since the NFL’s merger
with the American Football League in 1970 to earn each of its
two first wins of a season on the game’s final play.  The New Orleans Saints slipped past the Tampa Bay
Buccaneers 16-14 on Garrett Hartley’s 27-yard field goal as time
expired, while the Chicago Bears defeated the Minnesota Vikings
31-30 as Jay Cutler tossed a 16-yard touchdown pass to Martellus Bennett with 10 seconds remaining.  Chargers Win  The San Diego Chargers topped the Philadelphia Eagles 33-30
on Nick Novak’s 46-yard field goal with seven seconds left. The
Chargers’ winning kick came after the Eagles and new coach Chip Kelly’s fast-paced offense took just 80 seconds off the clock in
setting up the tying field goal.  The Buffalo Bills beat the visiting Carolina Panthers 24-23
as Stevie Johnson pulled down a two-yard touchdown pass from
rookie quarterback E.J. Manuel with two seconds left.  The Miami Dolphins held on for a 24-20 win over the
Indianapolis Colts yesterday as the latest comeback attempt by
Andrew Luck came up short. Luck, who had eight game-winning
drives in the fourth quarter or overtime through his first 17
NFL games, threw three straight incompletions from the Dolphins’
23-yard line with less than two minutes left before getting
sacked on a 4th-and-10 play.  Unbeaten Chiefs  The Kansas City Chiefs matched their win total from last
season, improving to 2-0 under new coach Andy Reid with a 17-16
victory over the Dallas Cowboys. Alex Smith threw two touchdown
passes for the Chiefs, who were tied for the NFL’s worst record
in 2012.  In Baltimore, Ravens quarterback  Joe Flacco  became a father
for the second time about an hour before the start of his team’s
game against the Cleveland Browns. Flacco’s wife, Dana, gave
birth to the couple’s second son and the reigning Super Bowl
champions scored two second-half touchdowns to rally for a 14-6
win to even their record at 1-1.  The  Arizona  Cardinals rallied for a 25-21 victory against
the Detroit Lions, with Rashard Mendenhall scoring the go-ahead
touchdown on a one-yard run with 2:03 left. Also yesterday, the
Atlanta Falcons opened up a 21-0 lead and held on for a 31-24
win over the St. Louis Rams, while the Oakland Raiders topped
the Jacksonville Jaguars 19-9.  Week 2 play, which began Sept. 12 with a 13-10 win for the
New England Patriots (2-0) against the  New York  Jets (1-1),
wraps up tonight with the Cincinnati Bengals hosting the
Pittsburgh Steelers in a matchup between winless teams.  Seahawks-49ers  The Seahawks and 49ers entered this season tied as the
second-favorites among oddsmakers to win the Super Bowl behind
the Broncos. While San Francisco went 11-4-1 last season to win
the National Football Conference’s West Division over Seattle
(11-5) and reach the Super Bowl, the Seahawks dominated last
night’s meeting on coach Pete Carroll’s 62nd birthday.  Lynch rushed for 98 yards and two touchdowns while also
catching a seven-yard scoring pass from Russell Wilson.  The Seahawks’ defense forced five turnovers, with
Kaepernick throwing three interceptions and also losing a fumble
a week after passing for 412 yards and three scores in a season-opening win over the Packers. Anquan Boldin, who had 13 catches
for 208 yards in his 49ers’ debut a week ago, was limited to one
catch for seven yards last night.  “They did a good job in a lot of phases,” 49ers coach Jim Harbaugh said at a news conference. “We definitely made things
harder on ourselves. I don’t think any of us are real proud of
our performance.”  Manning Matchup  In East Rutherford, New Jersey, Peyton Manning threw two
second-half touchdown passes and Knowshon Moreno ran for two
scores as the Broncos improved to 2-0 on the season.  Eli Manning threw his lone touchdown pass with just under
four minutes left and was intercepted four times as the Giants
dropped to 0-2 and surrendered more than 35 points for the
second straight week. The Giants have allowed 77 points in their
first two games while rushing for a total of 73 yards.  “We have to run the ball better and we have to
eliminate the turnovers,” Eli Manning said. “We’ll keep
fighting and get back on track. Everybody in our division lost,
so the way we can look at it, we’re one game back in the
division.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in East Rutherford, New Jersey at
   matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  