-- China Reins in Popular Voices With New Microblog Controls
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-16T10:22:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/china-reins-in-popular-online-voices-with-new-microblog-controls.html
Chinese microblogger Dong Rubin
mused to his 45,000 followers last month that he might face
arrest amid a government crackdown on Internet rumors. On Sept.
10, he was detained for misreporting the worth of his business.  Dong joined a group of people who had gone online to
criticize government-sanctioned projects or voice political
opinions and wound up in detention on unrelated allegations.
This year, Dong opposed plans for an  oil refinery  in the
southern city of Kunming where he lives, a project that spurred
street protests.  The crackdown on users of Twitter-like microblogs, along
with new punishments for online defamation, reflect a stepped-up
Communist Party campaign to rein in a forum that’s challenged
 China ’s censorship regime. As President  Xi Jinping  asserts his
authority before a party plenum this fall, his government is
placing new limits on critics and people who may spread online
reports of party cadres’ wrongdoing.  “They are going to pour massive resources into managing
it,” said Jeremy Goldkorn, the director of Danwei, an Internet
and media research firm in Beijing. “They will use a
combination of intimidation and technology, and it’s quite
effective.”  Even as government officials sign up for microblog accounts
and state media praise online whistleblowers, authorities have
exerted more control over the Web conversation.  Legal Interpretation  China’s top court issued an interpretation last week saying
Web users could face jail time if defamatory rumors they put
online are read by more than 5,000 people or reposted more than
500 times.  “So long as Weibo is outing a few bad apples, it’s
tolerable,” Andrew Wedeman, a professor of political science at
 Georgia State University , who has written about corruption in
China, said in an e-mail. “When the speculation and fingers
start pointing at politically sensitive targets, it becomes
dangerous.”  Popular social media platforms include  Sina Corp.’s (SINA)  Weibo
service and  Tencent Holdings Ltd.’s (700)  instant messaging app
WeChat. Tencent is now the biggest  Internet company  in  Asia .  Liu Qi, a spokesman at Sina, didn’t respond to a phone call
seeking comment. Jerry Huang, a director of  investor relations 
at Tencent, didn’t respond to phone and e-mail queries on the
rules’ effects.  Direct Debate  The interpretation is a way to control “Big Vs,” or
people with verified microblog accounts and many followers who
can direct online debate, said Isaac Mao, director of Hong Kong-based social-networks  research center  Sharism Lab.  Last month, American-Chinese venture capitalist Charles Xue
was detained on charges of soliciting prostitutes. Xue was a Big
V who wrote on politically sensitive topics to his 12 million
followers.  In reports yesterday, Chinese state media released
confessions in which Xue said he behaved irresponsibly for
forwarding more comments as his number of followers grew. A
report by the official Xinhua News Agency said he became
“careless and unscrupulous” in posting unverified rumors.  “Xue warned other Big Vs to stay alert and not to go down
his road,” the story said. Xue offered to appear in handcuffs
as a “negative example” to publicize the campaign against
online rumors, it said.  Still Adjusting  The crackdown indicates the government is still adjusting
its response to information circulated and seen by the nation’s
591 million Web users. In December, the government required real
names to sign up for Internet connections. Earlier in 2012, the
comment functions on Sina and Tencent’s microblog services were
briefly halted after authorities detained six people for
spreading rumors of a coup attempt.  “The intention is to deter people who like to criticize
the government on Weibo,” said Zhang Ming, a political
scientist at Beijing’s Renmin University. “It’s a very scary
thing.”  Cyberspace isn’t a “lawless haven,” Foreign Ministry
spokesman Hong Lei told a briefing in Beijing today. He said the
government rules have “widespread support from Chinese  Internet
users .”  A Xinhua story last week said a number of people had been
detained for allegedly spreading online rumors, adding that Sina
Weibo has become an important channel to expose corruption.  In Kunming earlier this year, Dong investigated the planned
oil refinery and published his report online. On Weibo, he
called for more transparency about the project.  Weibo Transparency  “Weibo makes things transparent -- you can see my
followers retweet what I say,” Dong said in a May interview in
Kunming. He said the local government has a department that
“looks at every Weibo I write.”  Dong said that he had refused government requests to attend
group meetings about the planned refinery. Late last month, he
wondered on his microblog what crime authorities might bring
against him.  “Prostitution, gambling, drug trafficking,  tax evasion ,
picking quarrels, creating rumors, an online Mafia?” he wrote.  In an essay posted online on Sept. 4, Dong said police
detained his general manager and confiscated computers after
they began the campaign against Big Vs. He was detained Sept.
10, said his lawyer, Xiao Dongzhi.  “They fear people will tell things as they are,” said Zhu
Ruifeng, who runs a whistleblowing website called People
Supervision Net. “Our hopes in this country are in the
Internet. Weibo’s ability to transmit information is too
quick.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  