-- China Welcomes Russia-U.S. Framework Agreement on Syria: Wang
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-15T10:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/china-welcomes-russia-u-s-framework-agreement-on-syria-wang.html
China  welcomes a framework
agreement signed by  Russia  and the U.S. to eliminate Syria’s
chemical weapons, Foreign Minister Wang Yi said today during a
meeting in Beijing with his French counterpart Laurent Fabius.  The agreement has relieved the tense situation and creates
new prospects for resolving issues over Syria through peaceful
means, Wang said, according to a statement posted on the  website 
of the ministry.  “We still remember that several days ago the Syrian
government was still denying that they own chemical weapons and
used them, so now we have reached a more positive stage where we
can focus on finding a proper way of solving the whole crisis,”
Fabius said at the meeting, according to a pool report.  U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and Russian Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov reached the agreement yesterday in Geneva
on a framework for finding, securing and destroying Assad’s
stocks of poison gas. The deal calls for early signs of
progress, giving Syrian President Bashar al-Assad one week to
submit an inventory of his toxic weapons, and calls for initial
inspections in  Syria  by November.  The agreement between the U.S. and Russia, a longtime ally
of Syria, calls for a UN Security Council resolution compelling
Assad’s regime to adhere to its terms. Russia previously has
used its veto as a permanent Security Council member to block UN
condemnations of Assad during the 2 1/2-year civil war.  Kerry is scheduled to meet today in  Jerusalem  with Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. He’s set to talk tomorrow in
Paris with counterparts from the U.K. and  France , permanent
members of the United Nations Security Council, and from Saudi
Arabia, a major backer of the opposition forces seeking to
topple Assad.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  