-- Clegg Rejects House-Price Bubble Concerns as He Cites BOE Tools
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-09-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/clegg-says-u-k-has-tools-to-prevent-another-house-price-bubble.html
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg 
said the U.K. is “nowhere near” a house-price bubble and the
 Bank of England  has tools to prevent one, amid growing concerns
that government support for homebuying is stoking another boom.  If there’s another bubble, the Bank of England and the
government “have means by which we can anticipate that and make
sure it doesn’t happen again,” Clegg told  BBC Television ’s
“Andrew Marr Show” yesterday. Britain is “nowhere near yet
the peak of that unsustainable housing bubble,” he said.  The central bank’s Financial Policy Committee holds its
quarterly meeting on Sept. 18 to scrutinize potential financial-stability concerns, less than a week after lawmakers questioned
Governor  Mark Carney  on the risk of an unsustainable housing-market boom. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s Help
to Buy program, which helps boost deposits for homebuyers, has
drawn warnings from the  International Monetary Fund  and Business
Secretary Vince Cable for potentially driving up prices.  “We need to be vigilant and of course we’re going to be
vigilant,” said Clegg, who is attending his Liberal Democrat
party’s annual conference in Glasgow, Scotland. “We’ve started
the painstaking job of building more houses. The great crisis in
housing in Britain for years is we simply don’t build enough new
houses and we don’t build enough affordable houses.”  Mortgage Guarantees  Help to Buy is designed to let cash-strapped buyers
purchase a home with a deposit of as little as 5 percent. The
first phase -- interest-free loans for buyers of newly built
homes -- began in April and has already stoked the strongest 
housing market  since the financial crisis. Guarantees meant to
spur 130 billion pounds ($206 billion) of mortgage lending will
be available for all homes starting in January.  Liberal Democrat President Tim Farron also criticized the
program in a speech to party members in Glasgow on Sept. 14 that
attacked policies advocated by Osborne and other ministers from
their Conservative coalition partners.  “Only the complacent would think that we’re out of the
woods, and there’s some who seem content to steer us straight
back into those woods,” he said. “We still face the danger of
a re-inflating housing market,  unsustainable growth  fed by cheap
credit and real growth thwarted for want of skills.”  Clegg said yesterday that “mortgage approvals are about
half of what there were at the peak.” While “there are parts
of the housing market particularly in  London  and central London
that are booming,” that isn’t the case in other parts of the
country, he said.  ‘Thousand Miles’  His words were echoed by another senior Liberal Democrat
minister, Chief Secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander, who
told Sky News television yesterday that “we’re a thousand miles
away from a housing bubble in the U.K.”  Recent property-market data have suggested prices are
increasing. A report by Acadametrics on Sept. 13 showed that
U.K. house prices rose to a record last month. In London, prices
have risen 40 percent from their trough in April 2009, compared
with 16 percent nationally, the report, compiled with LSL
Property Services Plc showed, while eight of the 10 regions
tracked recorded price gains.  The opposition  Labour Party ’s business spokesman, Chuka Umunna, said current government policy such as Help to Buy
ignores the need to reconfigure the economy.  “Much of the solution to powering the recovery in the eyes
of George Osborne lies in sorting out the housing market, but
the problem is we are at grave risk of there being another
housing bubble,” he told the BBC yesterday. “We know that we
also need to rebalance our economy so that we don’t just rely on
consumption and, say, property prices, but we grow our
productive sectors -- manufacturing for example -- and also that
we grow our exports as well.”  Carney told lawmakers on Sept. 12 that while the market is
improving, activity levels, mortgage applications and valuations
are still low. He also said prices will continue to increase,
and the Financial Policy Committee will be “vigilant.”  The FPC will release a statement on its deliberations on
Sept. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in Glasgow,  Scotland , at
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  