-- CoCo Market Growth Seen Curbed by Conflicting Regulatory Demands
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-09-15T10:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/coco-market-growth-seen-curbed-by-conflicting-regulatory-demands.html
Demand for contingent capital notes
is being hampered by conflicting rules governing buyers and
sellers of the bank debt designed to absorb losses in times of
stress, according to economists at the  Bank for International
Settlements .  Banking regulators encourage lenders to issue CoCos to help
them satisfy  capital requirements  and remain solvent during a
crisis, while regulators of prospective buyers worry about the
potential losses those banks might suffer, Stefan Avdjiev,
Anastasia Kartasheva and Bilyana Bogdanova wrote in the Basel-based BIS’s Quarterly Review published today.  CoCos convert to equity or are written down when the
capital of the issuing bank falls below a preset level. While
demand for the higher-yielding securities has accelerated in the
last couple of years, the market remains small with sales
totalling $70 billion since 2009. That compares with about $550
billion for other subordinated debt and about $4.1 trillion for
senior unsecured debt, according to the report.  “CoCos have the potential to strengthen the resilience of
the banking system,” according to the report. “Their ability
to do so will depend on the scope for diversification, the
capacity for reducing systemic risk and the coordination of
their treatment between regulators of issuers and prospective
buyers.”  Individual investors and private banks in  Asia  and  Europe 
are the biggest buyers of the debt, while large institutions
remain discouraged by “lack of clarity” on how national
regulators will treat CoCos and the absence of complete and
consistent credit ratings, according to the report. More than
half of CoCos are unrated and until May this year, Moody’s
Investors Service didn’t grade them at all, the BIS reported.  The BIS was formed in 1930 and acts as a central bank for
the world’s monetary authorities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  