-- Costa Concordia Righting Started in $800 Million Salvage
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-09-16T08:50:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/costa-concordia-righting-starts-in-800-million-wreck-removal.html
An unprecedented operation to right
the Costa Concordia began today off the Italian island of
Giglio, where the cruise liner has been lying on its side since
it capsized 20 months ago, killing 32 passengers.  The  parbuckling , or vertical rotation, is part of a removal
plan costing about 600 million euros ($802 million), according
to Beniamino Maltese, chief financial officer of  Carnival Corp (CCL) ’s
Costa Crociere SpA Italian unit, which owns the ship. After the
righting, which will last as long as 12 hours, the 114,500-ton
ship will rest on underwater platforms, built under the hull
using 18,000 tons of cement, for several months before being
towed to an Italian port to be broken up.  “There’s no plan B,” Franco Gabrielli, head of Italy’s
civil protection agency in charge of the Concordia emergency,
said at a press conference Sept. 12 in Rome. “The possibility
of the ship breaking up is remote.” The main risk is that
liquids flow from the wreck, he said.  The Concordia, with 4,200 passengers and crew, rammed into
rocks and partially sank off the Tuscan coast on Jan. 13, 2012.
Its captain, Francesco Schettino, is the only defendant in a
criminal trial after being indicted earlier this year on charges
including manslaughter and abandoning the ship while many
passengers were still on board. Schettino, who has always denied
any wrongdoing, saying his actions saved lives, faces as many as
20 years in jail if convicted, according to prosecutor Francesco
Verusio.  Storm Overnight  The operation to lift the 952-foot (290-meter) ship started
at about 9 a.m. local time after being delayed for about three
hours due to a storm overnight, the team in charge of the
parbuckling  said  on its website. Florida-based Titan Salvage and
 Italy ’s Micoperi, with a team of 500 salvage workers from 21
countries, were picked for the removal.  The Concordia’s final destination has still to be decided
after a number of Italian ports expressed interest in scrapping
the wrecked ship, Gabrielli said.  “It is not of course the first parbuckling in history, but
it’s certainly an unprecedented operation, given the size of the
ship, the lack of support and the artificial sea bed that was
made,” Costa Crociere’s Project Manager Franco Porcellacchia
said at last week’s press conference.  Prosecutors from Grosseto who investigated the accident
will be in Giglio during the operations, which will reveal
submerged parts of the ship that were never exposed and might
provide clues on the accident and on the location of the two
remaining bodies that have never been found, Gabrielli said last
week.  Claims Settled  Costa Crociere, which agreed in April to pay a 1 million-euro fine for violations of the Italian administrative
responsibility law, has settled claims with more than 80 percent
of passengers as of May 14. Parent company Carnival has said
that “substantially all” of the ship removal costs and the
costs of these and any future claims will be covered by its
insurance.  The Concordia accident and its delayed removal have posed a
threat to Giglio’s economy. The island, which lies within a
sanctuary for marine mammals such as dolphins and whales,
depends on tourism in summer months.  Once the Concordia is righted, an unknown amount of liquid
and objects that remained on board will flow out and the sea
bottom will have to be cleaned and the marine flora replanted.
To prevent damage due to the rotation, the salvage team will
reinforce a protection perimeter around the ship using floating
booms that were first placed in January last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  