-- DeMark Says Shanghai Index to Jump as Economy Strengthens
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-09-16T08:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/demark-says-shanghai-composite-to-rally-china-overnight.html
The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  is
poised to extend gains as investors anticipate the Chinese
economy will keep strengthening, said Tom DeMark, the developer
of market-timing indicators who predicted the gauge’s rally from
a four-year low in June.  A correction this week is possible before the benchmark
index of Chinese equities continues to rise to a level “much
higher” than his last call of 2,323, said DeMark, whose
technical analysis is designed to identify market supply-and-demand imbalances for trading opportunities. The  Shanghai  index
 had rebounded  15 percent from a low reached June 27 through
Sept. 13, surging 6.6 percent in the past two weeks, the most
since December. The Shanghai Index slipped 0.2 percent to
2,231.40 at the close today.  “Current price activity is characteristic of a market
which is dealing with a possible broad and major overriding
shift in Chinese economics and fundamentals, which could
favorably affect the index and translate into an extended move
upside,” DeMark, the founder of Market Studies LLC, wrote in an
e-mail from Scottsdale,  Arizona  on Sept. 12. “This does not
preclude a modest correction or sideways movement over the next
week.”  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. entered a bull market this month and
has surged 25 percent from a June low. Better-than-estimated
data from exports to  industrial output  for the last two months
signal a recovery in the world’s second-largest economy. Premier
Li Keqiang pledged last week to accelerate financial reforms,
and the cabinet approved a free-trade zone in Shanghai this
month with relaxed controls on capital flows.  ‘Positive Development’  DeMark said the Shanghai gauge will meet some resistance
between 2,313 and 2,348 before climbing higher. “The sharp
acceleration over the past two weeks has introduced the
possibility of a positive fundamental development which could
extend the current rally into something more than one normally
would expect,” he wrote.  While DeMark also correctly projected the market would
slump in February and forecast an index rally in December, he
had called for a rebound in a March 19 e-mail.  Chinese equities traded in New York extended a two-week
rally to 7.1 percent, the most for such a period since January
2012, led by Internet companies.  NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ) , which started a
music application for mobile devices last week, rose 28 percent
last week, while AutoNavi Holdings Ltd. jumped 18 percent.  DeMark’s Combo indicator completed a “13 countdown” on a
daily basis for the Shanghai index. DeMark’s “countdown” study
involves comparing a security’s closing price to its highest or
lowest levels two periods earlier, with cycles of “exhaustion”
forming when a pattern continues 13 times.  ETF Advances  DeMark said in December that the Shanghai Composite’s
decline below 1,960 signaled selling has climaxed and the index
will rally 48 percent within nine months. The benchmark gauge
bottomed at 1,949.46 on Dec. 4 and rallied as much as 23 percent
through Feb. 6.  He said Feb. 6 that the measure would decline about 8
percent to within a range of 2,230 to 2,250 before rebounding.
The index was down 8 percent from when DeMark made the call
through March 18, when the gauge closed at 2,240.02.  His call for a rebound of 48 percent within the following
six months on March 19 proved too optimistic. The measure
tumbled 14 percent to a June low.  The  iShares China Large-Cap ETF , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 2.2 percent last week
to $38.21 in New York, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
advanced 2 percent for a second weekly gain.  Record Highs  Companies ranging from Qihoo 360 Technology Co. to  YY Inc. (YY) 
reached record highs last week amid optimism that the outlook
for sales growth and profitability in the sector is improving,
according to Andy Yeung, a New York-based analyst at Oppenheimer
& Co. Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., China’s biggest e-commerce
company, is preparing for the largest initial public offering
since Facebook Inc.  “The excitement about China’s Internet names can go
between now till the IPO of Alibaba as there’s a lot of guesses
about which smaller companies might partner up with one of those
bigger companies,” Eric Jackson, founder of Ironfire Capital
LLC, a Naples, Florida-based hedge fund that invests in Chinese
stocks said by phone Sept. 13.  The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index climbed 2 percent
last week to 10,538.94. The Shanghai Composite gauge ended the
week up 4.5 percent to 2,236.22, the most since February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  