-- Deutsche Bank Says Gazprom to Rally: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-09-15T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/deutsche-bank-says-gazprom-to-rally-russia-overnight.html
OAO Gazprom (OGZPY) ,  Russia ’s biggest
company, will extend a rally from a four-year low as increasing
exports to Europe bolster its dividend outlook, said Tim Wiswell, head of Russian equities at Deutsche Bank AG.  American depositary receipts  of Gazprom, which provides a
quarter of Europe’s gas, jumped 2.7 percent to $8.75 last week,
bringing its surge since June 20 to 35 percent. The advance
erased its discount to the Moscow-listed shares. The Bloomberg-Russia-US Equity Index of the most-traded Russian companies in
the U.S. posted a two-week rally, led by OAO  Mechel. (MTLR)  RTS Index
futures expiring this month rose 0.4 percent to 140,170 in U.S.
hours Sept. 13.  Russian gas shipments to Europe and Turkey in the first
eight months of this year rose to the highest level since at
least 2010, according to data from Gazprom Export. The euro area
expanded by 0.3 percent in the second quarter, snapping six
quarters of contraction. Russia’s Finance Ministry has been
pushing to increase payouts by state companies to 35 percent of
net income from 25 percent.  “Exports to Europe have been strong and should continue to
be as Europe recovers,”Wiswell said in an interview in New
York Sept. 12.  “Gazprom (GAZ)  has potential to gain as the dividend
play is becoming more attractive.”  The company will also benefit from Russia’s exports to
 China , he said. The two countries are seeking to complete a deal
that would see Russia supply as much as 68 billion cubic meters
of gas a year, helping to meet the energy needs of Asia’s
biggest economy. Gas-supply talks between Russia and China
started in 2004, and have dragged on as the countries disagreed
over price.  $10 Billion  PetroChina Co. (857) , the publicly traded unit of state-owned
China National Petroleum Corp., is interested in spending at
least $10 billion for a minority share of eastern Siberian gas
fields operated by Gazprom and  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , three people with
knowledge of the matter said last week. Gazprom and CNPC plan to
sign a contract for Russian gas supply to China by the end 2013,
the Russian producer said on Sept. 5.  Eleven out of 19  analysts  tracked by Bloomberg recommend
buying Gazprom’s Moscow-listed shares, the most since January.
On average, analysts predict a 38 percent surge for the stock
over the next 12 months.  The Bloomberg-Russia-US gauge added 2.2 percent to 95.23
for the week. The benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rose 1.2 percent to
1,440.74, capping a two-week rally. Russian equities have the
cheapest valuations among 21 emerging countries tracked by
Bloomberg, with shares trading at 3.8 times 12-month estimated
earnings, compared with a multiple of 10.5 for the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index.  ‘Bottomed Out’  “Russia has bottomed out,” Wiswell said. “Cheap
valuations in quality liquid names excite me about the market.”  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, increased 3.5
percent last week to a six-month high of $28.16. The RTS
Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in the stock
futures, fell 0.2 percent to 22.10 in U.S. hours Sept. 13.  Mechel (MTL) , the worst-performing stock among Russian companies
traded in New York this year, surged 9.9 percent to $3.66 last
week. The ADRs closed at an 8 percent premium to the company’s
Moscow-listed shares.  CTC Media Inc. (CTCM) , the Nasdaq-listed Russian television
network, sank 1.7 percent to $10.80. The decline trimmed this
year’s advance to 39 percent.  West Texas Intermediate crude will probably rise this week
on concern tension in  Syria  will disrupt Middle East supplies, a
Bloomberg survey shows. Eleven of 25 analysts, or 44 percent,
forecast crude will gain through Sept. 20. Eight respondents, or
32 percent, predicted a slide. Six projected no change. WTI
capped the biggest weekly drop since July on Sept. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  