-- Dollar Falls to 1-Month Low on Fed Speculation; Aussie Advances
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-09-16T21:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/dollar-drops-versus-euro-yen-as-summers-withdraws-from-fed-race.html
The dollar fell to a one-month low
as the exit of former Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers from
the race to lead the Federal Reserve damped bets for an early
end to expansionary monetary policy.  The U.S. currency weakened as Summers’s decision fueled
speculation the Fed will be more cautious to remove monetary
stimulus, which tends to weaken a nation’s foreign exchange. The
Federal Open Market Committee will consider whether to slow its
$85 billion of month bond-buying at a policy meeting tomorrow
and the next day.  Australia ’s dollar rose to a three-month high
and the South African rand climbed to the strongest in five
weeks. The Turkish lira jumped the most since May 2010 as the
U.S. and  Russia  agreed on a plan to eliminate  Syria ’s chemical
weapons, boosting demand for higher-yielding assets.  “I would attribute a lot of dollar selling towards
Summers’s withdrawal,”  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency
sales in New York at Mizuho Financial Group Inc., said in a
phone interview. “As for the FOMC meeting, any tapering of over
$10 billion will be considered fairly aggressive.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the
performance of a basket of 10 leading global currencies against
the dollar, fell 0.3 percent to 1,020.97 as of 5 p.m. in New
York. It touched the lowest level since Aug. 12.  Market Prices  The dollar fell 0.3 percent to $1.3334 per euro after
dropping to $1.3386, the weakest level since Aug. 28. The U.S.
currency declined 0.3 percent to 99.08 yen after depreciating to
98.46 yen, the least since Sept. 2. The euro was little changed
at 132.11 yen.  The Australian, New Zealand and Canadian dollars all
rallied as investors sought higher-yielding assets.  The Aussie climbed 0.8 percent to 93.18 U.S. cents after
rising to the strongest level since June 19. The kiwi rallied
0.5 percent to 81.70 cents, and  Canada ’s currency gained 0.3
percent to C$1.0324 per U.S. dollar.  The Australian currency may extend its advance to as high
as 95.10 U.S. cents, the Fibonacci 38.2 percent retracement of
the currency’s gain in June, as the risk of additional weakness
for the greenback has increased, Niall O’Connor, a New York-based technical analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a note
to clients. “The backdrop for commodity currencies continues to
improve against the dollar,” he wrote.  The rand rose 1.2 percent to 9.8102 per dollar after
appreciating to the strongest level since Aug. 9.  Rand Bid  “There is very strong global risk appetite after the
announcement that Summers is no longer running,” said Mohammed Nalla, head of strategic research at  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  in
Johannesburg. The rand may advance to 9.65 per dollar after
breaching key technical levels, he said.  Obama had mentioned Summers and Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen as candidates to lead the Fed after Ben S. Bernanke’s
term as chairman expires Jan. 31, with policy makers preparing
to reduce bond purchases, known as quantitative easing. Summers
until yesterday was the president’s favorite.  Twenty U.S. senators, including 19 Democrats and one
independent, signed a letter of support for Yellen in July.  “It’s the Summers thing mainly and then perhaps to some
extent behind that as well there’s the agreement on Syria,”
said Steve Barrow, head of Group-of-10 research at Standard Bank
Plc in  London . “The dollar will probably stay a bit softer
against the riskier currencies. The emerging-market currencies,
or the riskier G-10 currencies of the Aussie, kiwi and Canadian
dollar, are reasonably well set against the dollar.”  Fed Policy  The Federal Open Market Committee will slow its monthly
asset purchases to $75 billion from $85 billion at a two-day
meeting starting tomorrow, according to a Bloomberg News survey
of economists on Sept. 6.  The JPMorgan G7 Volatility Index fell to 9.06, the lowest
in five weeks. It’s below the average 9.57 percent this year.  “The anxiety about the FOMC and how much tapering we’re
going to see; the nervousness about  China ’s slowdown, and really
the shift to liquidity from EM bonds to safer markets -- those
were the three key anxieties of the summer and I think those
three risks have receded,”  said Mike Moran, a senior currency
strategist at Standard Chartered Plc in New York.  Turkey ’s lira extended gains from last week as U.S.
Secretary of State John Kerry tries to build support for a plan
to find and destroy Syria’s chemical weapons. He will meet with
French President Francois Hollande and the foreign ministers
from  France  and the U.K. after negotiating an accord with
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov.  The lira rose 1.2 percent to 2.0045 per dollar.  Currency Ranking  The dollar has depreciated 0.6 percent in the past week,
the worst performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen rose 0.9 percent
the euro was little changed.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $15 billion, compared with $16 billion on Sept. 13,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the euro-dollar exchange rate amounted to $1.83 billion, the
largest share of trades at 13 percent. Options on the dollar-yen
rate totaled $1.82 billion.  Euro-dollar options trading was 21 percent more than the
average for the past five Mondays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Greenback-yen options trading
was 46 percent less than average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in New York at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  