-- Stocks Climb With Treasuries as Dollar Drops on Summers
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-09-16T20:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/dollar-sinks-on-summers-as-australian-index-futures-climb.html
Stocks rose with Treasuries and the
dollar weakened as Lawrence Summers withdrew his bid to become
Federal Reserve chairman. Crude oil fell after the U.S. and
 Russia  agreed on a plan to eliminate  Syria ’s chemical weapons.  The MSCI All-Country World Index increased 0.8 percent to
the highest level since June 2008 and the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  jumped 0.6 percent, after rallying as much as 1 percent,
at 4 p.m. in New York. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 0.6
percent to a five-year high. The yield on five-year U.S.
Treasuries  declined  six basis points to 1.64 percent. The
Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index dropped 0.3 percent. Crude sank 1.1
percent while corporate bond risk slid to a three-month low.  Summers, a former Treasury secretary, would have tightened
Fed policy more than Janet Yellen, who was his main rival to
replace Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, according to a Bloomberg
Global Poll last week. The Fed will probably taper its monthly
bond-buying program by $10 billion to $75 billion this week, a
separate survey of economists showed. The U.S.-Russia agreement
establishes a framework for finding, securing and destroying
President Bashar al-Assad’s stocks of poison gas.  “I don’t think the market knew what kind of a Fed chairman
Summers would be, and having him out of the running makes things
look a lot more certain,” Colleen Supran, a principal of
Bingham, Osborn & Scarborough in San Francisco, which manages
$2.7 billion, said in a phone interview. “This tapering
announcement that’s expected for Wednesday seems to be accepted
by the markets. It’s probably going to be modest.”  Record High  The S&P 500 rose 2 percent last week and today came within
five points of its record high of 1,709.67 reached on Aug. 2
before paring gains. The  benchmark index  has rallied 4 percent
so far in September, rebounding from the worst monthly loss
since May 2012, as reports showed  China ’s economy strengthened
and the U.S. looked less likely to attack Syria.  Wells Fargo & Co. advanced 1.7 percent today to pace gains
among financial companies. D.R. Horton Inc. and Toll Brothers
Inc. climbed at least 1.1 percent as housing stocks surged.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. added 3.6 percent after JPMorgan Chase
& Co. advised investors to buy the shares. Packaging Corp. of
America jumped 11 percent after it agreed to buy Boise Inc. for
about $1.27 billion.  Boeing Co. added 3.9 percent for the biggest rise in  the
Dow .  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  tumbled 3.2 percent for the largest decline in
the S&P 500. The stock has  fallen  11 percent since Sept. 9, the
day before the newest version of the iPhone was announced.  Options Halt  U.S. equities pared early gains as options exchanges halted
trading for about an hour after reporting a malfunction with the
industry data feed for disseminating prices. CBOE Holdings Inc.,
NYSE Euronext, Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and Bats Global Markets
Inc. reported shutdowns that were later resolved.  The issue comes three weeks after the Nasdaq Stock Market
halted trading due to concern about a price conduit serving
multiple equity exchanges. In a meeting with the heads of major
U.S. securities markets last week, Mary Jo White, the chairman
of the Securities and Exchange Commission, urged the executives
to shore up marketwide price feeds in serving investors and
traders.  The S&P 500 will climb 12 percent to 1,900 by the end of
next year as valuations rise and investors pour money into
mutual funds, according to Citigroup Inc.  ‘Dry Powder’  Tobias Levkovich, the firm’s chief U.S. equity strategist,
said he favors shares of larger companies over smaller ones
because foreigners will boost U.S. holdings and may prefer to
buy well-known stocks. Computer makers, health-care providers
and consumer discretionary stocks will outperform, he said.  “There is plenty of dry powder to push share prices higher
as confidence returns,” Levkovich said in a Sept. 13 note. “A
shift toward growth stocks seems appropriate along with large-cap names especially if foreign money moves into U.S. markets.”  Treasury 5-year  yields  dropped six basis points to 1.63
percent, after sliding as much as 14 basis points earlier in the
day. The 10-year rate slipped one basis point to 2.88 percent.  “The FOMC meeting and the uncertainty around the tapering
story is still the story of the week, and is whipping the market
around,” said Aaron Kohli, an interest-rate strategist in New
York at BNP Paribas SA, one of 21 primary dealers that trade
with the Fed. “We are also seeing a fade of the Summer’s move,
which is keeping shorter-dated debt stronger, as the market was
too aggressive in pricing in what the lack of a Summer’s
nomination means.”  Fed Candidates  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said he accepted Summers’
decision to step aside. Summers was one of three candidates
mentioned by Obama as possible replacements for Bernanke, whose
term as Fed chairman ends on Jan. 31. Yellen, the current Fed
vice chairman, was also on the list along with Donald Kohn, a
former Fed vice chairman.  Yellen may be viewed by markets as a “shoo-in” after
Summers pulled out, National Australia Bank Ltd.’s economics
team wrote in a note today. Ten-year Treasuries fell on Sept. 13
after the Nikkei reported Summers would be named Fed chairman.  The Federal Open Market Committee will decide to cut
monthly purchases of Treasuries to $35 billion from $45 billion
and keep mortgage-bond buying at $40 billion at this week’s
meeting, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Anticipating Tapering  Fifty-seven percent of those surveyed in a Bloomberg Global
Poll said they don’t expect a sudden change in the markets
because they already anticipate tapering. Eight percent see a
rally and just under a third are looking for declines, based on
the Sept. 10 poll of 900 investors, traders and analysts who are
Bloomberg subscribers.  “From a short-term perspective, markets will be happy that
it looks like Yellen is going to be a frontrunner,”  Eric Stein ,
a money manager in  Boston  at Eaton Vance Management, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television. “There’s going to be a
continuation of Federal Reserve monetary policy.”  Investors have been weighing U.S. economic data to
determine the timing and pace of any reductions in central bank
stimulus. A report today showed manufacturing in the New York
region expanded less than forecast in September even as orders
and shipments picked up, while factories’ outlooks improved.  Separate data showed industrial production rose in August
by the most in six months, indicating U.S. manufacturing will
contribute more to the expansion.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced to the highest level
since June 2008. Hennes & Mauritz AB rallied to a three-year
high after sales topped estimates. Remy Cointreau SA soared 7
percent, the most in almost four years, as Chinese cognac
shipments increased.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index jumped 1.4 percent to its
highest since June 4. Equity gauges in  Turkey , Russia and the
Czech Republic increased at least 1.3 percent. Turkey’s  Borsa
Istanbul (XU100)  National 100 index increased the most in Eastern
Europe, adding 3.7 percent. The MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding
Japan Index added 1.7 percent with Japanese markets closed. The
 Hang Seng (HSCEI)  China Enterprises Index in Hong Kong climbed 1.6
percent and gauges from  Thailand ,  Indonesia  and the  Philippines 
rose more than 2 percent.  India’s  Sensex (SENSEX)  was little changed, erasing an earlier gain
of as much as 1.8 percent, after a report showed the inflation
rate increased more than expected.  Asian currencies climbed to a five-week high. The
 Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index (ADXY)  of the region’s 10 most-used currencies excluding the yen increased 0.3 percent after
touching the highest level since Aug. 12.  Yen Strengthens  The dollar slid against 15 of its 16 major peers. The yen
gained 0.2 percent, while the euro appreciated 0.3 percent to
$1.3336. Turkey’s lira increased 1.2 percent. New Zealand’s
currency rose 0.4 percent and the Australian dollar climbed 0.8
percent.  The cost of insuring against losses on corporate bonds fell
to the lowest in more than three months. The Markit iTraxx
Crossover Index of credit-default swaps linked to 50 high-yield
companies decreased 14.12 basis points to 377.41 basis points,
the least since May 22.  The S&P  GSCI (SPGSCI)  gauge of 24 commodities fell 0.9 percent, and
declined as much as 1.3 percent to a one-month low.  West Texas Intermediate crude fell 1.1 percent to $106.99,
a three-week low. Contracts due next month on U.S. gasoline sank
1.8 percent. Soybeans slumped 2.4 percent in  Chicago , amid
speculation rain in parts of the U.S. Midwest will halt a
decline in crop conditions. Copper advanced 0.6 percent to $3.22
a pound, the first gain in a week.  Syria Accord  Gold fell for the second time in three sessions in  London 
after the agreement on Syria’s chemical weapons diminished
demand for haven assets. Gold for immediate delivery declined
0.6 percent to $1,318.49 an ounce. Futures for December delivery
rose 0.7 percent to settle at $1,317.80 on the Comex in New
York. Prices climbed as much as 2.1 percent after Summers
withdrew from the list of candidates for Fed chairman.  U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry joined top French and
U.K. diplomats in insisting that the UN Security Council keep
alive the threat of an armed response in case Syria backslides
on the chemical-disarmament accord reached over the weekend.  At the United Nations, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon
briefed the Security Council on a report by a UN inspection team
that found “clear and convincing evidence” that the nerve
agent sarin was used in an attack near Syria’s capital of
Damascus, where the U.S. says Assad’s troops on Aug. 21 fired
chemical weapons that killed more than 1,400 people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brown in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in New York at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  