-- Dubai Stock Index Climbs to 3-Week High as Syria Concern Eases
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   C l a u d i a   M a e d l e r
-- 2013-09-15T13:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/dubai-stock-index-climbs-to-3-week-high-as-syria-concern-eases.html
Dubai’s stock index surged to the
highest in almost three weeks as the threat of an imminent
attack on  Syria  eased after the U.S. and Russia reached an
agreement to eliminate the country’s chemical weapons.  The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  climbed 4.8 percent to 2,659.93, the
highest close since Aug. 26. The measure had plunged as much as
15 percent since reaching a five-year high on Aug. 25 on concern
the U.S. would launch a military strike against Syria.  Emaar
Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the stock with the biggest weighting on the
index, jumped 4.7 percent, while  Deyaar Development (DEYAAR)  PJSC surged
9.1 percent.  Israel Corp. (ILCO)  led gains in Tel Aviv.  Dubai’s stocks posted the biggest  swings  in the world in
the past month on concern a military strike would have
repercussions in the oil-rich  Middle East . U.S. Secretary of
State  John Kerry  and Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov 
reached agreement yesterday on a framework for finding, securing
and destroying Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s stocks of
poison gas. The deal calls for early signs of progress, giving
Assad one week to submit an inventory of his toxic weapons, and
calls for inspections in Syria by November.  “The Syria crisis is well behind us now and the markets
have adjusted to those dynamics,” said Nayal Khan, head of
institutional equity sales and trading at Naeem Brokerage. “A
15 percent to 20 percent downside since Syria was announced was
a bit too much, certainly for Dubai.”  Volatility  Dubai’s measure has climbed 64 percent this year, more than
any of the 50 largest equity markets, as the Persian Gulf
business hub recovers from the credit crisis that led to a crash
in property prices. Economic growth in the emirate is set to
accelerate to 4.6 percent, on average, through 2015 helped by a
rebound in tourism, trade and transport, government estimates
show. That’s more than twice as fast as the prior four years.  The Dubai index’s  30-day volatility , a measure of
fluctuations in Dubai’s equities gauge, rose to 44 today, the
highest since January 2010 and the most among 72 indexes tracked
by Bloomberg. That’s more than 10 points above the Philippines.  Saudi Arabia’s All Share Index and  Abu Dhabi ’s gauge gained
1.8 percent. Qatar’s measure rose 1.7 percent, Kuwait’s 1.9
percent, Oman’s 0.7 percent and Bahrain’s 0.3 percent. Egypt’s
EGX 30 climbed 0.5 percent.  Expo 2020  In Israel, the  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  gained 1.9 percent at the close
in Tel Aviv as Israel Corp. jumped 9 percent, the most since
July 2009, to 1,755 shekels. The shares soared along with those
of its  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  unit, which advanced 6.4 percent on
speculation that a possible change in ownership of Russian
potash producer OAO Uralkali could help stabilize prices of the
crop nutrient.  Israel’s government bonds were unchanged, with the yield on
the benchmark 4.25 percent notes due March 2023 at 3.98 percent.  Dubai shares are also benefiting ahead of the emirate’s
Citiscape real-estate exhibition and amid expectations the
sheikhdom will win the right to host the  World Expo 2020 , Khan
said. “Dubai is miles ahead in terms of infrastructure and
hotel room availability by 2020,” he said.  Dubai is bidding against cities including Izmir in  Turkey ,
and Sao Paulo to host the exhibition, which is held every five
years and attracts millions of visitors. The winner will be
announced in November.  Emaar rose to 6.02 dirhams, the highest since Aug. 26, and
Deyaar soared to 61.4 fils, the highest since January 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  