-- Merkel Gets Bavarian Election Tailwind as FDP Concerns Grow
-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-09-16T09:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/merkel-gets-election-tailwind-from-bavaria-as-fdp-concerns-grow.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
gained a tailwind in her bid to win a third term as her Bavarian
ally won a regional election, drubbing the opposition  Social
Democrats  seven days before the national vote.  The  Christian Social Union , the sister party to Merkel’s
 Christian Democratic Union , took an absolute majority in
yesterday’s ballot, allowing it to govern without a coalition
partner in the state assembly in Munich.  “This is a good result for Merkel,”  Jan Techau , director
of the Brussels office of the Carnegie Endowment, said in a
phone interview. “There’s no sign that the SPD and Greens are
catching up. There’s no extra juice in their election race.”  The Bavarian result puts pressure on Merkel to maximize her
own tally in the Sept. 22 election after her federal coalition
partners, the Free Democrats, failed to reach the 5 percent
threshold to enter the state parliament. Polls show the FDP
struggling to reach that level nationally, meaning she may be
forced into a grand coalition with the SPD and  Peer Steinbrueck .  The FDP took 3.3 percent in Bavaria, down from 8 percent in
the last election in 2008. Nationally, they’re polling between 5
percent and 6 percent, with a poll yesterday putting them on 4
percent.  Roesler’s Plea  FDP leader Philipp Roesler, the federal economy minister,
toured television studios this morning urging voters to split
their ballot to help his party and secure a Merkel government.
German voters cast two ballots: one for an individual directly
elected from the district, and the other for a political party,
which determines whether it clears the 5 percent hurdle.  SPD Chairman  Sigmar Gabriel  said Bavarian voters had sent a
signal to the Free Democrats by ejecting them from the state
legislature, saying in remarks broadcast live on ARD television
that it “hasn’t earned the right to be in the regional or the
federal parliament.”  The CSU took 47.7 percent to 20.6 percent for the SPD,
preliminary final results showed. The Greens took 8.6 percent;
the Free Voters, who oppose euro-area bailouts, got 9 percent.  Merkel, who is touting her stewardship of  Europe ’s biggest
economy during the debt crisis that sprang from  Greece , entered
the final week of campaigning as Germany’s  benchmark DAX index 
rose to a record.  The chancellor is due to kick off a 150-hour town and city
tour of  Germany  by her party’s youth wing today, then winds up
her campaign on Sept. 21 in Berlin and in Stralsund, the main
city in her electoral district on the  Baltic Sea .  Steinbrueck’s Push  Steinbrueck focuses his final campaign push in the SPD-held
states of  Lower Saxony , North Rhine-Westphalia, Brandenburg,
Hamburg and Berlin. His closing rally will be held in  Frankfurt ,
the main city of Hesse state, which holds regional elections on
Sept. 22.  Yesterday’s election result was a “bitter defeat” for the
SPD, Hermann Groehe, general secretary of Merkel’s CDU in
Berlin, said on ARD. “Not just in Bavaria but also for
Steinbrueck and the party nationally,” he said.  Bavaria, Germany’s second-most populous state and home to
companies such as BMW-maker Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and
engineering giant  Siemens AG (SIE) , is a bellwether for the federal
vote. At the same time, CSU leaders work at a distance from
federal politics. The CDU doesn’t contest Bavarian ballots and
the CSU only puts up candidates in its home state, their votes
counting together in federal elections.  Merkel Basks  Merkel will “bask” in the result as an endorsement,
Carsten Nickel, a London-based analyst with Teneo Intelligence,
said by telephone. The drop in support for the Greens, which
polled as high as 15 percent in Bavaria in July, “is worth
noting as a possible sign of ebbed national support,” he said.
Even so, “it’s obviously bad news for the FDP and a wake-up
call for its core supporters to mobilize.”  CSU leader and Bavarian Prime Minister  Horst Seehofer 
hasn’t shied away from conflict with Merkel in pressing his
party’s proposal for an autobahn car toll to help pay for German
highway repairs. Merkel opposes the plan while indicating she
may be open to discussing the CSU’s other main campaign goals,
including a proposal for national referendums on key decisions
affecting the European Union’s future.  Seehofer, who may now have greater leverage in any national
coalition negotiations, said on ZDF television that his party
“won’t give up” on the toll proposal. “We’ll implement it.”  Nationally , support for Merkel’s CDU/CSU bloc dropped a
percentage point to 39 percent in a weekly Emnid poll for
yesterday’s Bild am Sonntag newspaper, while Steinbrueck’s SPD
gained a point to 26 percent. The Greens lost a point to 10
percent and the anti-capitalist Left held at 9 percent. The FDP
was unchanged at 5 percent. Emnid polled 1,840 voters on Sept.
5-11. No margin of error was given.  “Of course the FDP showing is pretty bad and this will
worry her,” Carnegie’s Techau said. All the same, “the
Bavarian result tells us that voters are not in a mood for
change and this favors incumbents.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Crawford in Berlin at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  