-- Merkel Poised for Election Boost From Vote in Bavaria
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   J a m e s   H e r t l i n g
-- 2013-09-15T16:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/merkel-poised-for-election-boost-from-vote-in-bavaria.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
sister party was set to win a majority in Bavarian state
elections, giving the incumbent a boost as she heads into the
final week of her campaign before a national vote.  Merkel’s Christian Social Union sister party took 49
percent, regaining sole control of the country’s second-most
populous state, according ZDF television projections based on
partially counted ballots. Led by Prime Minister  Horst Seehofer ,
the CSU rebounded from 2008 when its worst result in more than
50 years forced it into coalition with the Free Democrats. The
FDP, Merkel’s national coalition partner, won 3 percent, below
the 5 percent hurdle required to win seats in parliament.  “This gives us the necessary momentum for the last week of
campaigning,” Michael Grosse-Broemer, the chief whip of
Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc in the Berlin parliament,
said in a ZDF interview.  Bavaria is a bellwether for the Sept. 22 federal vote, with
the CSU majority lending Merkel momentum against her Social
Democrat challenger,  Peer Steinbrueck . Merkel is due to hold a
rally on Sept. 20 in the state capital Munich that will be her
eighth speech in Bavaria since July, underlining the region’s
importance to her bid for a third term.  The opposition  Social Democrats  took 20.7 percent, while
their Green party allies had 8.5 percent. The Free Voters, who
want  Greece  to exit the euro, oppose euro-area bailouts and want
to trim the power of the European Union, also won 8.5 percent,
the ZDF projection showed. Preliminary final results are
published about 11 p.m.  Merkel Leads  Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc dropped by a percentage
point in Emnid and INSA national polls published today to 39
percent and 38 percent respectively. The SPD under Steinbrueck
gained a point to 26 percent in the Emnid poll and dropped a
point to 27 percent in the INSA poll. The Greens lost a point,
falling to 10 percent in the Emnid poll and were unchanged at 11
percent according to INSA. The Free Democrats, with whom Merkel
wants to ally again after Sept. 22, were unchanged in both polls
with Emnid giving them 5 percent and INSA 4 percent.  This “was a painful defeat in  Bavaria ,” said FDP
chairman, Vice Chancellor and Economics Minister Philipp Roesler
in a press conference on N-TV.  The election ambitions of Merkel and Seehofer are aided by
Bavaria’s economic performance. Home to BMW-maker  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , engineering giant  Siemens AG (SIE)  and insurer
 Allianz SE (ALV) , the state’s gross domestic product last year was
about $619 billion, bigger than the output of Poland or  Austria .  Munich-based BMW’s share price is 131 percent higher now
than on Sept. 27, 2009, the last federal election date, compared
with a 49 percent rise in the  benchmark DAX Index .  Youth Jobs  “What really makes me happy is that we have eliminated
youth unemployment,” Seehofer said before the vote. Bavaria’s
 unemployment rate  is 3.8 percent compared with 6.8 percent
nationally in  Germany .  The CSU was  founded  as a separate Christian Democratic
movement in Bavaria after the defeat of  Nazi Germany  in 1945.
Merkel’s CDU was also founded in 1945 in the rest of what became
 West Germany  under Konrad Adenauer, who became West Germany’s
first postwar chancellor in 1949.  The CDU doesn’t contest Bavarian ballots while the CSU only
puts up candidates in its home state, their votes counting
together in federal elections. The CSU has three of the 16 posts
in Merkel’s cabinet: currently transport, agriculture and
interior affairs.  Free State  Bavaria, legally called the “Free State of Bavaria,” has
always considered itself a place apart from the rest of Germany.
“Mia san mia,” is a favorite saying of regional patriots that
translates literally as “we are who we are,” though is more
usually taken to mean “don’t mess with Bavaria.”  Seehofer hasn’t shied away from conflict with Merkel in
pressing his party’s proposal for an autobahn car toll to help
pay for German highway repairs. Merkel has remained firm in
opposing the plan while indicating that she’s open to discussing
the CSU’s two other main campaign goals: the introduction of
regional rates of inheritance tax and national referendums on
key decisions affecting the European Union’s future.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling in Berlin at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  