-- Existing-Home Sales Probably Declined: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-09-15T04:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/existing-home-sales-probably-declined-u-s-economy-preview.html
Purchases (ETSLTOTL)  of previously-owned homes
probably fell in August as  mortgage rates  at a two-year high
began to slow the progress in U.S. residential real estate,
economists said before a report this week.  Contract closings fell 2.6 percent to a 5.25 million
annualized rate from the highest level since November 2009,
according to the  median forecast  of 62 economists in a Bloomberg
survey ahead of National Association of Realtors data due on
Sept. 19. Another report is projected to show home  construction
starts  rose in August, reflecting orders in the months preceding
the run-up in  interest rates .  Rising  borrowing costs  may temper the pace of the housing
rebound that’s been a mainstay of the economy. Federal Reserve
policy makers meeting this week will decide whether the
expansion and labor market have improved enough to warrant
scaling back purchases of government and mortgage securities.  “The recent jump in mortgage costs will moderate the pace
of the housing recovery but not derail it,” said  Russell Price ,
a senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit .
“The Fed is likely to go ahead with tapering. Borrowing costs
could ease a bit between now and year-end as the market digests
the idea that the Fed’s decision is not a tremendously negative
event.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee , due to meet on Sept. 17-18, will start to trim $85 billion in monthly asset purchases,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey taken
this month. Policy makers have pledged they won’t consider
raising the federal funds rate, now near zero, as long as
unemployment is 6.5 percent or higher and the outlook for
inflation doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent.  Builder Shares  Higher mortgage rates are taking a toll on shares of
homebuilders. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding
Index has declined 17.6 percent since the end of April, when
borrowing costs began to rise. The  S&P 500  has gained 5.7
percent.  The projected decline in existing-home purchases would
follow a  6.5 percent  increase in July that brought the
annualized rate to 5.39 million.  Since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled the central
bank may slow its purchases of government and mortgage bonds,
the average rate on 30-year home loans has risen more than 1.2
percentage points after hitting a low of 3.35 percent in May,
Freddie Mac data show. The rate was at  4.57 percent  as of Sept.
12, close to the highest level since July 2011.  Contract Backlogs  The surge in mortgage costs is unlikely to halt the
nationwide housing recovery, according to builders including
 Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV)  The  Red Bank , New Jersey-based
company reported a profit for its fiscal third quarter as net
contracts climbed 1.8 percent and the contract backlog, an
indication of future sales, jumped 18 percent to 2,893 homes.  “We’re confident that any hesitancy our consumers have
seen or felt or acted with the higher rates will be a temporary
bump in the road to housing recovery,” Chief Executive Officer
 Ara Hovnanian  said on a Sept. 9 conference call with analysts.  Even as borrowing costs slow the pace of progress in the
housing market, recent demand for new homes will keep builders
busy in coming months at the same time low inventories support
gains in prices.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
confidence index may have eased to 58 in September from 59 a
month earlier, which was the highest since 2005, economists
projected ahead of the report due on Sept 17.  Housing Starts  A day later, Commerce Department figures may show housing
starts climbed to a 920,000 annualized pace in August from an
896,000 rate the prior month, according to the Bloomberg survey
median.  Building permits , a gauge of future construction, fell
0.4 percent, economists project the report to show.  As the pace of progress in housing cools, manufacturing is
emerging from a slowdown in the first half of 2013. Industrial
production grew 0.4 percent in August after stalling in July,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey ahead of
Fed data tomorrow. Factory activity in the  New York  and
Philadelphia areas also picked up this month, regional Fed
figures may show.  Among other data this week, the Labor Department’s cost of
living index may signal tame inflation, while the Conference
Board’s leading indicators measure may point to an economy that
will continue to expand.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  