-- Syria Accord Draws Republican Skepticism as Obama Pushes Plan
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-09-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/hezbollah-iran-will-benefit-from-syria-accord-republican-says.html
Republican lawmakers questioned
whether a U.S. agreement with Russia will succeed in eliminating
Syria’s chemical weapons as President  Barack Obama  said the plan
will reduce the chances of another poison gas attack.  Republicans accused the administration of ceding its
leverage by backing off a threat of military action against the
regime of Bashar al-Assad. House Intelligence Committee Chairman
Mike Rogers said the U.S.-Russia deal will offer openings for
American enemies in the region to increase their influence.  “Not only Russia is going to take advantage of this,”
Rogers, a  Michigan  Republican, said on CNN’s “ State of the
Union ” program. “So is Hezbollah and so is  Iran .” The
Hezbollah militia, allied with Shiite Muslim Iran, has been
supporting Assad in Syria’s civil war and is considered a
terrorist group by the U.S. and  Israel .  The accord, negotiated by U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  and Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov , sets a
framework for finding, securing and destroying Assad’s stocks of
poison gas. The deal calls for early signs of progress, giving
Assad a week to submit an inventory of his toxic weapons, and
calls for initial inspections in Syria by November.  The agreement quelled the prospect of a U.S. military
strike on Syria in response to an Aug. 21 chemical weapons
attack outside Damascus. The U.S. says Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s forces killed more than 1,400 people in the attack.  “My entire goal throughout this exercise is to make sure
what happened Aug. 21 does not happen again,” Democrat Obama
said in a Sept. 13 interview aired yesterday on ABC’s “This
Week” program. “We have the possibility of making sure that it
doesn’t happen again.”  Domestic Priorities  The agreement gives Obama a diplomatic achievement without
a shot being fired by U.S. armed forces. While the deal still
faces political and practical hurdles, it could also wind down a
drama that has put the president at odds with most of the U.S.
public and many of his supporters.  That would let the administration shift its focus to
domestic priorities, including a budget agreement, an increase
in the debt ceiling and the nomination of a Federal Reserve
chairman.  “The most important political effect of the agreement is
to knock the issue down a few pegs on the political agenda,”
said John Pitney, a political science professor at  Claremont
McKenna College , in Claremont,  California .  Republican Criticism  Republicans have criticized the administration’s response
to the Syrian gas attack, with Senator  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee ,
the top-ranking Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee saying “the administration’s handling of this crisis
has hurt U.S. credibility.”  Obama first threatened a military strike and then turned to
Congress for authorization. As the administration was pressing
lawmakers, Russia seized on Secretary of State John Kerry’s
offhanded comment that Syria could avert a strike by giving up
its chemical weapons.  Obama then agreed to explore the Russian proposal and asked
congressional leaders to postpone a vote.  “I’m less concerned about style points,” Obama said in
the “This Week” interview. “I’m much more concerned about
getting the policy right.”  ‘Loser’ Agreement  Senator  John McCain , a Republican from  Arizona , said on
NBC’s “Meet the Press” that the agreement is a “loser” for
the U.S.  “It gave Russia a position in the  Middle East  which they
haven’t had since 1970,” McCain said. “We are now depending on
the good will of the Russian people if Bashar Assad violates
this agreement. And I am of the firm belief, given his record,
that is a very, very big gamble.”  The agreement calls for a UN Security Council resolution
compelling Assad’s regime to adhere to its terms. Rogers said
the administration had sacrificed its leverage by accepting that
the resolution won’t authorize force should Assad fail to
comply. Rogers said the agreement will undermine efforts to oust
Assad.  “We’ve taken away a credible military threat,” Rogers
said. “If we wanted a transition with Assad, we’ve just fired
our last round.”  Russian Goal  Rogers called the accord a “Russian plan for Russian
interests.” Russia supports the Assad regime.  Senator  Carl Levin , the chairman of the Senate Armed
Services Committee, said the U.S. can still use military force
if Assad doesn’t comply with the agreement. Speaking on CBS’s
“Face the Nation,” Levin said Russia’s “No. 1 or No. 2 goal”
was for the U.S. to relinquish the military option.  “Russia has failed in that goal,” said Levin, a Democrat
from Michigan. “We retained the option of using force if
there’s not full compliance.”  Verifying compliance will be especially difficult with
Syria in the middle of a civil war, said Richard Butler, the
former chief weapons inspector for the UN.  “Inspectors would have to be able to go there. That
implies protection of them,” Butler said on CNN’S “Fareed Zakaria GPS” program. “That could be incredibly difficult in
the present circumstances in  Syria .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  