-- Floating Casinos From Hong Kong Stealing Macau Gamblers
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-09-16T08:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/floating-casinos-from-hong-kong-stealing-macau-gamblers.html
When Li Yu wanted to take a
gambling trip, she looked into  Macau  but found the hotels too
expensive. So she booked a room on an overnight casino boat that
sailed about an hour from Hong Kong into international waters
before opening up its baccarat tables.  “I don’t care about the food or other amenities, my sole
purpose is to gamble,” said Li, a housewife from nearby
Guangzhou who played into the early hours of the morning with
about 70 others in the ship’s cramped casino. “It’s way cheaper
than going to Macau.”  Surging demand from mainland  China  has made Macau the
world’s largest gambling hub, pushing hotel prices above those
in Las Vegas. Lower costs, less government scrutiny and easier
visa requirements are encouraging some China bettors to turn to
gambling boats as an alternative to Macau’s glitzy casinos,
which drew $38 billion in revenue last year.  Visitors on the eight casino boats that leave Hong Kong
each night rose 9 percent to 615,328 in the first half of this
year, aiding operators such as  Success Universe Group Ltd. (487)  and
 Genting Hong Kong Ltd. (GENHK)   “The cruise ship can be a good substitute for mainland
tourists,” said Hoffman Ma, deputy chairman of Success
Universe, which doubled profits from its casino ship to HK$2.15
million ($277,000) in the first half of this year.  Success Universe shares rose 6.8 percent in Hong Kong
trading today, boosting its gains for the year to 54 percent.
The benchmark Hang Seng Index climbed 1.5 percent today.  The ships’ popularity shows how new businesses are
profiting as Macau struggles to keep up with accelerating
demand. The city, across the Pearl River Delta from Hong Kong,
is half the size of  Manhattan  and drew about 14 million tourists
in the first half of this year.  Packed Hotels  Macau resorts, owned by companies such as  Wynn Macau Ltd. (1128) 
 Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , and  MGM China Holdings Ltd. (2282) , run
at close to full capacity. Rooms in Macau averaged $175 a night
in July, according to the government, while Bloomberg Industries
estimates Vegas rates averaged $108 last year. A room on a Hong
Kong casino boat can cost as little as HK$400 ($52).  While Macau is the only place in China where casinos are
legal, the ships operate outside government control in
international waters.  Casino operators say they’re not worried about the
competition. The casino boats offer little in terms of dining
and shopping and do a fraction of the business of Macau’s
gambling industry.  Their impact “is minimal,” Ambrose So, chief executive
officer at Asia’s largest casino operator,  SJM Holdings (880)  Ltd.,
said in an interview earlier this month. “The pie is growing
bigger and some money overflows there.”  Xi Clampdown  Mainland tourists don’t need a separate visa to board the
cruise ships once they are in Hong Kong, an added perk for
affluent business people who want to stay under the radar.
China’s President Xi Jinping last year launched an austerity and
anti-graft campaign, warning that the enrichment of cadres and
their families threatened the Communist Party’s grip on power.  “Everyone knows that Macau is closely monitored by the
central government,” CLSA Ltd. analyst Richard Huang said in an
e-mail.  Nelson Wang, a businessman from the southeastern Chinese
city of Wenzhou, said he took an overnight trip on a gambling
boat while in Hong Kong because he didn’t have time to travel to
Macau and didn’t want to apply for a visa to go there.  “It’s a work trip after all -- if I get a separate visa to
Macau it looks a bit odd,” Wang said at a Hong Kong pier on a
recent Tuesday. With the government on the alert for people
gambling too extravagantly, he said, he’d rather be discreet.  Junket Operators  He said his trip was organized by a so-called junket firm,
which arrange travel and provide credit to wealthy Chinese
traveling to Macau. Success Universe, which owns one ship that
can accommodate 380 passengers, also leases it to Macau junket
operators who help bring tourists on board. Success Universe
also has a Macau resort called Ponte 16.  Success Universe’s boat and other Hong Kong ships leave
port late each evening, open their casinos once in international
waters, and allow patrons to gamble through the night. A big
benefit is that the boats pay no taxes on their receipts,
according to Success Universe, versus the 39 percent gaming levy
paid on gross revenue by Macau’s casinos.  Macau’s growth has been beyond “everyone’s wildest
expectations,” said Standard Chartered analyst  Philip Tulk .
Others in the industry have “seen how successful Macau has
become and want a share of its mouth-watering casino revenue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  