-- Forgotten Gas Attacks in Yemen Haunt Syria Crisis
-- B y   A s h e r   O r k a b y
-- 2013-09-15T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/forgotten-gas-attacks-in-yemen-haunt-syria-crisis.html
The victims “complained of a
choking feeling, burning in the stomach, spitting up black
blood, partial blindness, black burns on the body, and skin that
fell off leaving scars.”  The description is sickeningly reminiscent of the  sarin gas
attacks in Syria  last month, yet this eyewitness testimony was
recorded by U.K. politician  Neil McLean  in the Yemeni village of
Jebal Bini Awar in July 1963 after an incident in a four-year
campaign of chemical warfare that killed hundreds of Yemeni
civilians. The conflict is largely forgotten, but the world’s
failed response to repeated chemical assaults 50 years ago
haunts the contemporary debate on  Syria .  In 1962, a group of military officers overthrew Yemen’s
autocratic monarch, Imam Muhammad al-Badr. The imam’s supporters
among the northern tribes fought back, prompting Egyptian
President Gamal Abdel Nasser, who had helped overthrow his own
country’s king a decade earlier, to order a military
intervention. Eager to support the spread of Arab nationalist
regimes, Nasser dispatched 70,000 soldiers to bolster the
fledgling Yemeni republic’s struggle against the imam’s
counterrevolution.  The Egyptian-led intervention in this protracted civil war
would later be dubbed “Nasser’s  Vietnam ,” and as the conflict
worsened, the Egyptian response to the insurgency’s guerrilla
tactics grew desperate. The local population opposed the
Egyptian presence, and tribes began shifting their support to
the opposition. Eager for a decisive breakthrough, Nasser hoped
a massive bombing campaign using poison gas would terrorize the
local population into submission.  Restrained Diplomacy  While the deployment of chemical weapons was no secret,
President  John F. Kennedy ’s administration responded with
restrained diplomacy. The U.S. ambassador to  Egypt  sat Nasser
down for a private talk on the folly of using chemical weapons.
Nasser’s initial denials were followed by excuses that his
military commanders in the field were free to make their own
strategic decisions, for which he wasn’t responsible. Under
Kennedy’s successor,  Lyndon Johnson , economic aid to Egypt was
rescinded in part because of the occupation of Yemen and the use
of chemical weapons.  The U.S. government pushed international committees to
investigate the attacks. The International Red Cross released a
full  report , as did a team of U.K. mercenaries working with the
opposition. These investigations showed that the Egyptians began
experimenting with poison and chemical bombs in 1963.  These initial amateurish munitions were augmented by a
Soviet shipment of new gas bombs in January 1964.  Victims died 10 to 50 minutes after an attack, blood
emerging from their noses and mouths without any marks on their
skin. Autopsies confirmed death by pulmonary edema caused by
breathing a poisonous gas. Final studies concluded that mustard
gas was the likely culprit, as it was relatively simple to
manufacture and matched the symptoms of the victims.  Leaders then faced the dilemma of what to do with this
intelligence. The answer was essentially nothing. Although a few
American alarmists worried the Soviets were using Yemen as a
chemical-warfare testing ground, a seemingly remote conflict
between two Arab states was of little interest. On the other
side of the  Red Sea , Israeli officials were panicked by the
Egyptian chemical attacks and began mass distribution of gas
masks, though they showed no concern about Yemen itself.  The imam and his opposition forces published gruesome
pictures of the victims in an attempt to garner public support.
The  United Nations Security Council  remained inactive, however,
as the Soviets blocked condemnation of their Egyptian ally. As
the frequency of Egypt’s attacks accelerated in early 1967, the
International Red Cross brought its campaign to the floor of the
UN to garner a response to the gassings in Yemen. It received
only a shipment of gas masks. Over the course of the five-year
civil war, bombing continued unaffected by international
criticism, and Nasser’s military was essentially given free
reign.  Sobering Reminder  Respite finally arrived for Yemeni civilians in June 1967,
when the Egyptian forces were defeated by  Israel  in the Six-Day
War. Nasser had no choice but to pull his soldiers from Yemen to
help secure the home front. Yet even as they withdrew, the
Egyptians couldn’t resist inflicting several additional rounds
of gas bombings.  The chemical-warfare campaign in Yemen isn’t part of the
discussion about what to do in Syria today. The hundreds killed
and thousands injured received little international recognition,
public memorials or collective condemnation of the perpetrators.
Nor did it provoke any soul-searching over the world’s inability
to stop chemical attacks on Middle Eastern civilians.  Fifty years later, Western powers struggle for a way to
show Syria that the use of poison gas is intolerable. Yet the
failure to act in Yemen is a sobering reminder that complex
chemical-warfare problems are rarely quickly solved, nor is
justice delivered for the victims.  ( Asher Orkaby  is a Ph.D. candidate in modern Middle East
history at  Harvard University .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Asher Orkaby at  orkaby@fas.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 