-- Banks Hold Onto Profit to Meet Capital Targets, BIS Says
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2013-09-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/growing-banks-hold-onto-profit-to-meet-capital-targets-b.html
Lenders are meeting regulators’
demands to increase capital by holding onto profits rather than
curbing lending, according to a report by the  Bank for
International Settlements .  Banks increased capital ratios to an average of 8.5 percent
at the end of June 2012 from 5.7 percent at the end of 2009, the
BIS wrote in a quarterly review published today. Leverage
ratios, which measure equity capital as a proportion of total
assets, rose to 3.7 percent from 2.8 percent over the period.
Most of the increase came from banks reducing dividends and
widening lending spreads, said the BIS, a group of regulators
and central bankers that sets global capital standards.  “In the years since the crisis, both private and public
sectors have exerted pressure on banks to build large buffers of
high-quality capital,” BIS economist Benjamin Cohen said in the
report. “The bulk of that adjustment has taken place through
the accumulation of retained earnings, rather than through sharp
adjustments in lending or asset growth.”  Banks were ordered by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  to more than double their  capital ratios , a measure
of capital to risk-weighted assets, after Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. collapsed five years ago. Policy makers were
concerned banks would meet the standards by cutting lending
rather than raising capital, stalling an economic recovery.  Lending Increases  In fact, lending increased across the 82 banks examined in
the report. From 2009 to 2012 total assets jumped by 8 percent
at lenders in developed economies and 47 percent among those in
emerging economies, the BIS found.  That was offset by a cut in the dividend payout ratio to 27
percent in the period 2010 to 2012 from 40 percent in 2005 to
2007, the BIS reported. Lending spreads also rose, boosting
retained earnings. Net interest income, the interest banks
receive on loans and investments minus what they pay for
deposits, increased to 1.62 percent of assets from 1.34 percent.  “Banks in aggregate do not appear to have cut back sharply
on asset or lending growth as a consequence of stronger capital
standards,” Cohen wrote. “Banks in  emerging markets  also
benefited from a period of higher earnings and asset growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  