-- Israeli Inflation Slows to 1.3% as Growth Moderates
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-09-15T15:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/israel-inflation-slows-to-1-3-as-economic-growth-moderates.html
Israel ’s  inflation  rate declined in
August as slowing economic growth damped demand and competition
between retailers increased.  Annual inflation slowed to 1.3 percent from 2.2 percent,
the Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of Statistics  reported today.
The median estimate in a Bloomberg  survey  of eight economists
had been 1.6 percent. Consumer prices increased 0.2 percent from
the previous month. The government target range for annual
inflation is 1 percent to 3 percent.  “There is some moderation in economic growth,” said Yaniv Hevron, head of macro-strategy at  Ramat Gan , Israel-based
Excellence Nessuah Investment House Ltd., before the data was
released. “We also see greater competition among retailers.”  A drop in mobile phone service prices and the declining
cost of travel abroad contributed to the lower-than-expected
inflation rate, said Merav Yiftach, director of consumer prices
at the statistics bureau. The cost of foreign travel decreased
both because of the strengthening shekel and because school
started in Israel at the end of August instead of September.  The  Bank of Israel  has gradually reduced the benchmark
 interest rate  to 1.25 percent from 3.25 percent in 2011, in a
bid to boost the economy. Economic  growth  is forecast to slow to
3.2 percent in 2014, from 3.8 percent this year, the central
bank said June 24.  Hevron said he expects inflation to accelerate in the
coming year, led by housing costs. Prices are expected to
increase 1.9 percent over the next 12 months, according to a
survey of inflation forecasters released by the Bank of Israel
on Aug. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  