-- Israel Offers Yardstick to Measure Syria Chemical Accord
-- B y   A m y   T e i b e l
-- 2013-09-15T12:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/israel-offers-yardstick-to-measure-syria-chemical-accord.html
Israeli officials, who have
expressed guarded support for a U.S.-Russian agreement to
eliminate  Syria ’s chemical arsenal, today offered a yardstick by
which its success can be measured.  Speaking in an interview with Army Radio, the head of the
Israeli parliament’s foreign affairs and defense committee,
Avigdor Liberman, said the country had an accounting of Syria’s
chemical facilities against which compliance will be judged.  “We will be able to ascertain Assad’s credibility as early
as a week from now, when he hands over to the West a map of
chemical weapons sites in his possession,” he said, referring
to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. “Israel has the ability to
compare the information Assad will relay and the information our
intelligence agencies possess.”  Syria’s chemical weapons arsenal has been a source of
concern for  Israel  during 2 1/2 years of fighting in Syria, long
before the Aug. 21 chemical attack outside Damascus that killed
hundreds. The primary worry has been that the weapons could fall
into the hands of the Lebanese Hezbollah militant group that
fought a monthlong conflict with Israel in 2006, or other anti-Israel groups allied with Syrian rebels.  The U.S. and  Russia  struck a deal yesterday demanding the
destruction of Syria’s chemical weapons arsenal by the middle of
2014.  ‘Problematic Credibility  “In theory, the agreement is good for Israel, because
Assad will give up thousands of kilograms of chemical weapons,
as well as the infrastructure to build it,” Liberman said.  At the same time, Assad “has a very problematic
credibility record,” Liberman said.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  linked the
agreement to international efforts to prevent  Iran , a Syrian
ally, from becoming a nuclear power.  “We hope the understandings reached between the U.S. and
Russia on Syria’s chemical weapons will yield results,”
Netanyahu said in a speech marking the 40th anniversary of the
1973 Mideast war. Their success will be gauged by tangible
results -- a principle, he said, “that also applies to the
international community’s diplomatic efforts to stop the nuclear
arming of Iran.” Iran denies its nuclear program is meant to
produce weapons.  Kerry Briefing  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  flew today to Israel to
brief Netanyahu on the agreement.  Syria and Israel fought three wars since the Jewish state’s
establishment in 1948. Multiple efforts to make peace since the
1990s have failed, and Israel continues to hold on to the
southern Golan Heights plateau it captured from Syria in 1967
and later annexed in a move that is not internationally
recognized.  For the most part, the border has been quiet since 1974,
though shells from the Arab country have struck Israel since the
Syrian fighting began in 2011, causing no injuries and largely
characterized by the Israeli military as stray fire.  The pact on Syria’s chemical arms has revived talk about
pressing Israel to declare any weapons of mass destruction it
may possess.  Minister of Intelligence and Strategic Affairs Yuval Steinitz had no direct reply when asked today how Israel would
respond to pressure to give up non-conventional weapons.  “Israel is a responsible country, a country that needs to
defend itself in this difficult region filled with threats,”
Steinitz told  Army Radio .  Never Ratified  While Israel signed the chemical weapons treaty in 1993, it
never ratified it. Two decades ago, the U.S. congressional
Office of Technology Assessment included Israel in its list of
countries that probably or possibly have undeclared chemical
weapons.  “We will not accept attempts by the Syrian regime, which
is in noncompliance with its safeguards agreement and has used
chemical weapons on its own people in violation of international
norms, to compare itself to Israel, a thriving democracy which
doesn’t brutally slaughter and gas its own people,” U.S. State
Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said in a statement.  Asked what would happen if Russia or the U.S. were to
pressure Israel to sign the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty,
Steinitz replied, “Our policy of nuclear ambiguity is known and
I won’t say another word.”  Under that policy, Israel neither confirms nor denies
having nuclear weapons. The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists,
citing U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency figures, reported in its
September/October issue that the Israelis have an arsenal of 80
nuclear warheads that hasn’t been augmented since 2004.  Events in Syria have borne out the wisdom of Israel’s
longstanding resistance to signing the Non-Proliferation Treaty,
Steinitz said.  “It’s not the international community nor, with all due
respect, the U.S. or NATO or the UN that will defend the Jewish
people and Israel,” he said. “We have to defend ourselves and
rely on ourselves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Teibel in Jerusalem at 
 ateibel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  