-- Kagame’s Party Favored in Rwandan Parliamentary Election
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a   a n d   S a u l   B u t e r a
-- 2013-09-16T13:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/kagame-s-party-favored-in-rwandan-parliamentary-election.html
Rwandan parliamentary elections
began today in a contest that President Paul Kagame’s ruling
party is expected to win handily.  Balloting is being held over three days, with results
expected by Sept. 20, Kalisa Mbanda, chairman of the National
Electoral Commission, said in a Sept. 13 phone interview from
the capital, Kigali. The vote is the third since Kagame’s
Rwandan Patriotic Front took power after fighting to end a
genocide that killed more than 800,000 ethnic Tutsis and
moderate Hutus in 1994.  “The RPF is associated, more than any other political
party, with the gains Rwanda has made since 1994,” Fredrick
Golooba-Mutebi, a Kigali-based political analyst, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “It is also better resourced than
any other party, is larger, and has far greater reach into the
countryside than all the other parties.”  Coffee-producing Rwanda’s economy has doubled in size in
the nine years through 2010, according to the World Bank. It may
expand 7.5 percent this year after 8 percent last year, the
International Monetary Fund said in June.  In May, the country raised $400 million in a debut sale of
Eurobonds to repay debt and build a power plant. The sale has
helped boost foreign-currency reserves, allowing the central
bank to support the franc. The currency gained for a third day,
advancing 0.3 percent to 655.5 per dollar by 4:20 p.m. in
Kigali.  ’No Opposition’  Rwanda’s Parliament includes a 26-member Senate and Chamber
of Deputies of 80 seats, 24 of which are reserved for women
representatives, two for youths and one for people with
disabilities, according to Mbanda.  Voting for female representatives is scheduled for tomorrow
and the disabled and young people on Sept. 18, he said. Senators
are elected by provincial and sectoral councils, and appointed
by the president.  The RPF currently holds 35 of the 53 elected seats in the
chamber and cooperates with the Social Democratic Party, PSD,
and Liberal Party, PL.  The newly accredited Democratic Green Party will not
participate in the election because it was registered a day
before the deadline of submitting candidates for the vote,
according to its leader Frank Habineza.  “The ruling party is going to have no challenge in the
polls because it has no opposition, and this is a challenge to
democracy,” Habineza said in a phone interview from Kigali.
“The other two parties, PSD and PL, are already official
partners with the government, so we don’t expect any
competition.”  Voting today closed at 3 p.m., Mbanda said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net ;
Saul Butera in Kigali at 
 sbutera2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  