-- KKR Said to Compete With Abraaj for Saudi Fast-Food Chain
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-09-16T11:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/kkr-said-to-compete-with-abraaj-for-saudi-fast-food-chain-kudu.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , the private equity firm
led by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , is competing with Abraaj
Group to buy a majority stake in Saudi Arabian restaurant
business Kudu, two people familiar with the transaction said.  Abraaj, the largest buyout firm in the  Middle East , and New
York-based KKR reached the second stage of bidding to acquire
about 60 percent of the fast-food chain, said the people, asking
not to be identified because the information is private. HSBC
Holdings Plc’s Saudi unit is managing the sale of the business,
which operates 200 outlets in the region, they said.  Two of Kudu’s four partners are selling their stake in a
deal expected to value the company at between 1.5 billion ($400
million) and 2 billion riyals, one of the people said. Abraaj,
which manages $7.5 billion from Dubai, also plans an initial
public offering of oil-and gas-service company Stanford Marine
Group as soon as the first quarter, the person said.  Incomes in Saudi Arabia, the biggest Arab economy and home
to 28 million people, are growing as the government executes a
$500 billion investment plan to build industries, roads and
housing. KKR rival  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  in 2011 bought a 42 percent
stake in Alamar Foods, which operates  Dominos (DPZ)  and Wendy’s
restaurants in the country and operates a food processing plant.  A Kudu spokesman, who asked not to be identified because of
company policy, declined to comment. A spokesman for Abraaj in
Dubai and officials at KKR and Stanford Marine also declined to
comment. HSBC also declined comment.  Kudu Menu  Kudu, founded about 25 years ago, sells meals including
burgers, chicken and fries and steak and eggs.  Saudi Arabia’s economy will probably expand 4.2 percent
this year, according to the median forecast of 18 economists in
a Bloomberg survey. Growth in the world’s biggest oil exporter
surged 6.8 percent last year and by 8.5 percent in 2011.  Private-equity firms typically pool money from pension
plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies within five
to six years, then sell them and return the cash and a profit
after 10 years. The firms usually charge a fee of as much as 2
percent and keep 20 percent of profits from investments.  KKR has been raising new money for Asian and North American
funds and has invested $5.5 billion in 30 companies in  Asia ,
Joseph Bae, managing partner in the region, told journalists
today in  Hong Kong . The company in July said that second-quarter
profit fell 75 percent as its portfolio holdings gained less
than they did a year earlier.  KKR rose 0.1 percent to $20.03 at the close of trading in
 New York  on Sept. 13 and has gained 32 percent this year.  Divest Stakes  Abraaj is also seeking to divest stakes in Middle Eastern
supermarket chain Spinneys and a Tunisian pharmaceuticals
company, a person with knowledge of the matter said in February.
Its Stanford Marine unit is raising a $300 million, five-year
loan to replace existing debt, three people familiar with the
plan said Sept 1.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) 
are helping arrange the loan for the company, they said.  The Abraaj Group and the Aydinlar family in July also
agreed to sell a 90 percent stake in a Turkish health insurer to
a Malaysian sovereign fund for $252 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  