-- N.Z. Opposition Labour Party Elects David Cunliffe as New Leader
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-09-15T03:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/n-z-opposition-labour-party-elects-david-cunliffe-as-new-leader.html
New Zealand’s main opposition
 Labour Party  elected David Cunliffe as its new leader to contest
next year’s general election and try to prevent Prime Minister
John Key from winning a third term.  Cunliffe, 50, won the vote among caucus colleagues, party
members and affiliated unions, the Labour Party said in a
statement in Wellington today. He beat deputy leader Grant
Robertson and Maori Affairs spokesman Shane Jones to the job
that was vacated by David Shearer last month.  Cunliffe must now unify the Labour Party and boost its
public support if he is to stop Key from gaining another term at
the next election, due in late 2014. Labour had 33 percent
support in a Colmar Brunton poll of 1,006 voters for One News in
late July, trailing Key’s  National Party , which was on 46
percent.  “We must beat John Key in 2014 and we will only do that by
mobilizing the entire party, the affiliates, the membership and
the Caucus,” Cunliffe said in the statement. “If we can
combine the best of all of us, the winners will be the people of
New Zealand.”  Shearer, who scored 13 percent as preferred prime minister
in the One News poll compared with 41 percent for Key, resigned
on Aug. 22, saying he no longer enjoyed the confidence of all
his caucus colleagues.  Cunliffe previously challenged Shearer for the party
leadership and may have been viewed as more electable than
Robertson and Jones because he represents an electorate in
Auckland,  New Zealand ’s largest city and home to a third of its
population.  Robertson represents the Wellington Central electorate in
the nation’s capital city and is not as well known as Cunliffe
in Auckland.  Jones’s reputation was tarnished by revelations in 2010
that he used a taxpayer-funded  credit card  to pay for porn
movies when he was a minister in the last Labour government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  