-- Hong Kong Shares Go to First From Worst on China Rebound
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-09-16T08:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/hong-kong-shares-go-to-first-from-worst-on-china-economy-rebound.html
Hong Kong stocks are beating every
market in Asia as  China ’s economy strengthens, rebounding from
the biggest drop among developed world shares in the first half.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  surged 16 percent from its June 24 low
through last week, outpacing the 14 percent climb for the
Shanghai Composite Index, the next-biggest gain among Asian
benchmark gauges in the period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Even after the rally, Hong Kong’s  index  traded at 10.9 times
estimated earnings on Sept. 13, the lowest in global developed
markets behind  Israel .  Chinese economic data that beat forecasts this quarter
spurred Hong Kong stocks to reverse course after posting an 8.2
percent loss in the  six months  through June. New credit almost
doubled in August from July, easing concern that a lending
crunch would curtail expansion in the world’s second-biggest
economy, while equities rallied worldwide on signs growth is
picking up.  “A lot of economic data have come in to show China’s not
going to have a hard landing,” said Jeffrey Shen, head of
 emerging markets  at BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset
manager. “Hong Kong is clearly the first place for
international investors to put some money to work in China.”  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , also known as the H-share index, last week entered a bull market after climbing 20
percent from its June low, and the Hang Seng Index erased this
year’s loss. The gauge of Chinese shares listed in the city
traded at 7.8 times forecast profits on Sept. 13, the lowest in
Asia.  Relative Value  The Hang Seng Index jumped 1.5 percent in Hong Kong today
after former Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers withdrew his
name from consideration to be chairman of the Federal Reserve.
The H-share index rose 1.6 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 9.6 percent from its
June low through Sept. 13.  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index was
the worst performer this quarter among 26 developed markets
tracked by Bloomberg as investors pulled cash from Southeast
Asia before an expected reduction in Fed stimulus this week.  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  led gains on the Hang Seng Index
since June 24. China’s No. 1 Internet company surged 51 percent
as the government signaled a renewed push to boost the telecom
industry. China Oilfield Services Ltd., an offshore energy
contractor, rose 47 percent during the period to lead the H-share gauge higher after its first-half profit beat estimates.  China’s industrial output expanded at the fastest pace in
17 months in August and exports rose more than expected, signs
of an economic rebound after a two-quarter slump. Factory
production rose 10.4 percent last month while overseas shipments
gained 7.2 percent, beating the 5.5 percent estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Less Concern  That data allayed concern that a government crackdown on
speculative lending would stifle the economy. The Hang Seng
Index lost 16 percent from May 20 through June 24 as  money-market  rates surged to records.  “At the time, expectations for growth in the second half
were declining to an extent that they may ultimately miss the
government’s GDP growth target for 2013,” said Stephen Corry, a
Hong Kong-based chief investment strategist at LGT Group. “This
fear has not materialized.”  Premier Li Keqiang said he was confident of achieving 7.5
percent GDP growth in 2013 as the nation enters a phase of
“medium-high” expansion. Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch
unit boosted its growth estimate for China this year to 7.7
percent from 7.6 percent, joining Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in raising projections.  Credit Growth  Reports last week showed China’s broadest measure of  new
credit  almost doubled in August from the previous month.
Aggregate financing was 1.57 trillion  yuan  ($257 billion), the
People’s Bank of China said, topping the 950 billion yuan median
estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index traded at 13.3 times estimated
earnings on Sept. 13. That compares with multiples of 14.7 for
 Japan ’s  Topix (TPX)  index and 15.1 for  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The ratio for the Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index fell to 6.53 in June, the lowest
since the financial crisis in 2008.  Hong Kong shares have also gotten a boost from expectations
the Fed will taper stimulus as investors withdraw funds from
emerging markets. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted the
Fed will cut monthly bond purchases to $75 billion this week.
Markets in  India ,  Indonesia  and the  Philippines  declined to hit
new 2013 lows last month.  Investors pulled $2.2 billion from  Thailand , Indonesia and
the Philippines in August, after plowing $6.8 billion into the
markets in 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Managers are reallocating money from Asean and moving it
back to North Asia,” said Corry at LGT Group, which oversees
about $117 billion. “The Hang Seng Index is a beneficiary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  