-- Mongolia to Sell Up to $1 Billion in Samurai Bonds, Premier Says
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-09-15T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/mongolia-to-sell-up-to-1-billion-in-samurai-bonds-premier-says.html
Mongolia plans to sell as much as
$1 billion worth of Samurai bonds this year and offer foreign
investors a new way into its largest coal project as Prime
Minister Norovyn Altankhuyag seeks to revive growth.  “This year we’re hoping to launch a yen-denominated  bond
issue , which will be equivalent to as much as $1 billion,” the
prime minister said in an interview in  Tokyo , citing expanding
relations with  Japan  for the fundraising plan.  Mongolia’s economic growth slowed to 11.3 percent in the
first six months from a world-beating 17.5 percent in 2011 on
slowing Chinese demand for its coal and a dispute with the
nation’s top foreign investor,  Rio Tinto  Group. Stricter laws on
foreign investment have also damped overseas interest even as
the $10 billion economy looks abroad for help to build the
infrastructure needed to develop its mining riches.  Foreign direct investments shrank by $1 billion during the
first half of the year, a 42 percent drop. After a decade-long
commodity boom Mongolia’s sovereign rating is in danger of a
downgrade as state spending has been outstripping income, the
nation’s central bank said last month.  The  World Bank  in April cut its forecast for Mongolia’s
2013 economic growth to 13 percent from 16 percent, citing
declines in exports and foreign investment. The local currency,
the tugrik, has weakened 18.3 percent against the  U.S. dollar 
this year.  Better Climate  “These issues will not continue for a long time,” the
prime minister said Sept. 14 at the end of a four-day visit to
Japan. The government plans new laws to improve the investing
climate and also ways to boost exports, he said.  Mongolia’s Parliament will consider next week a draft bill
on investment that should bring more transparency and stability
to the process, particularly for overseas investors, he said,
without giving further details.  The country will also offer stock in its biggest coal
project to  foreign investors in power, rail and water projects
around the Tavan Tolgoi basin, he said.  Companies that build the infrastructure at Tavan Tolgoi,
which has reserves of more than 6.4 billion metric tons, will
later have the chance to swap their investments for equity in
the mine, Altankhuyag said. Investors may also choose to get
paid in coal, he said.  Russia & China  The central part of the coal basin is being developed by
state-owned Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi LLC, which sells all of its
coal to the Aluminum Corp. of  China  Ltd, also known as Chalco.
The Mongolian miner is in talks with China’s Shenhua Group and
 Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  of the U.S. on “strategic partnerships,”
Erdenes TT’s Chief Executive Yaichil Batsuuri said Sept. 3.  Samsung C&T Corp. (000830) ,  South Korea ’s second-biggest
construction company and also a trader of metals and chemicals,
said in May it won a contract to build a 217 kilometer (135
mile) rail line from Tavan Tolgoi to the Chinese border. Other
foreign investors will take part in building  power plants  around
Tavan Tolgoi, the prime minister said.  The government is still considering whether the rail from
Tavan Tolgoi to China should be the wider gauge track used in
 Russia  or the narrower gauge of China, which buys 90 percent of
its commodity exports, Altankhuyag said. A Chinese gauge is one
of the “many options” Mongolia has to help it boost exports,
he said.  Coal exports to China plunged to $542.4 million in the
first six month of the year from $1 billion a year earlier as
total first-half exports fell 10 percent, Mongolian state data
show.  Mongolian Mining Corp. (975) , which accounts for 42 percent of
Mongolia’s coal exports to China, said last month that average
prices for its washed coal used in steelmaking fell 29 percent
in the first half, versus the same period of 2012.  Capital Markets  As growth slows, Mongolia is turning to  capital markets  to
raise funds. The country will consider debt sales either in  yuan 
or yen to finance power plants and railways, central bank
Governor Naidansuren Zoljargal said April 19.  The government sold its first international bonds in
November with a $1.5 billion issue in the U.S. currency. Yields
on the 10-year government debt known as Chinggis bonds have
risen 273 basis points this year to 8.171 percent as of Sept 13,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  After this week’s visit to Japan, whose premier Shinzo Abe
was among the first leaders to visit Mongolia since Altankhuyag
took office in 2012, the nation landlocked between China and
Russia is turning to the yen for fundraising.  The  Japan Bank for International Cooperation  in June gave
Mongolia its first export credit line to the equivalent of 8
billion yen ($80 million), according to the bank’s website.  Samurai Debt  State-owned  Development Bank  of Mongolia LLC will be the
“main issuer” of yen-denominated debt, Altankhuyag said. The
sale is not tied to any conditions that oblige Mongolia to buy
Japanese equipment, he said.  The Development Bank of Mongolia sold $580 million of five-year debt denominated in the U.S. currency in March last year in
its first public bond sale. The yield on the bonds rose to 8.99
percent as of Sept. 13 from a low of 3.833 percent on Oct. 23
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Separately, the prime minister denied that there was a rift
between the government and Rio Tinto, Mongolia’s biggest
investor and the world’s second-largest mining company. The two
sides jointly own the Oyu Tolgoi gold and copper mine.  “There are no issues between Rio Tinto and the government
that we could not agree on,” he said. “We are continuously
saying that we are ready to discuss issues for the further
development of this site.”  Rio Tinto  In July, Rio Tinto, the world’s second-biggest mining
company, said it will delay work on a $5.1 billion underground
expansion of Oyu Tolgoi pending financing approval by Mongolia’s
parliament. The mine, which has so far cost $6.6 billion to
build, may expand Mongolia’s economy by 30 percent when running
at full capacity.  Since the first commercial copper shipments started in July
progress on developing Oyu Tolgoi has stalled. Mongolia, which
controls 34 percent, claims cost overruns are delaying future
dividends and wants the mine’s underground extension funded with
revenue from sales. Rio manages the project via its 51 percent
stake in  Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. (TRQ)   “Investment in the underground is a separate issue,” and
the need to move forward with this second phase of the project
must be weighed against the currently weak global economy,
Altankhuyag said. “We support  project financing ” for the
development of the underground section, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  