-- New Zealand Moves Two Wins Away From America’s Cup After Split
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2013-09-15T23:31:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/oracle-beats-new-zealand-for-third-america-s-cup-race-victory.html
Emirates Team  New Zealand  is two
races from winning the  America’s Cup  after splitting a pair of
heats with defending champion Oracle Team USA on  San Francisco
Bay .  Sailing in about 18 knots (20.7 mph, 33.3 kph) of wind, New
Zealand won a tight second race, emerging from the first leg
with a slight lead and ending the second up 11 seconds. After
four lead changes, the U.S. pushed ahead by 1 second on the next
leg, before New Zealand edged out downwind, crossing the finish
line with a 16-second advantage.  Dean Barker, the New Zealand skipper, told reporters that
it had been important for New Zealand to bounce back after
losing the first of a pair of very close races.  “If you didn’t enjoy today’s racing out there you probably
should watch another sport,” he said.  The U.S. needs eight more wins to retain the 162-year-old
trophy because of a two-race penalty for rules violations during
preliminary competition. New Zealand, which has won seven races,
can take the Cup with two. The next two races are scheduled for
Sept. 17.  Oracle’s win in the day’s first race was the second in a
row for the U.S. team backed by Ellison, chief executive of
 Redwood City , California-based  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and the world’s
eighth-richest man with a net worth of about $40.2 billion,
according to the Bloomberg Billionaire’s Index. Oracle won
yesterday’s sole race after New Zealand nearly flipped during a
tack, one hull of the 72-foot catamaran rising high in the air.  “You could almost see your house from up there, back in
New Zealand,” said Glenn Ashby, wing trimmer for the Kiwis.
“The boat handling aspect of these boats is so critical, as we
saw again today. That’s one of the exciting parts of sailing
such a technologically advanced boat.”  Oracle’s Win  In today’s first heat, Oracle controlled the start, leading
off the line and rounding the first mark about four seconds
ahead before finishing with a 47-second victory.  The U.S. team might have pulled out a third straight
victory, but slowed to pass behind New Zealand on the downwind
leg of the second race to avoid a rules violation. Oracle
Tactician Ben Ainslie said it was a necessary move and the
team’s best chance at retaking the lead.  “It was pretty close on that final run into the finish,”
said Ainslie. “It’s really hard to judge that right when you’re
going along at 40 knots. We didn’t do too bad a job there, but
it wasn’t enough to get back into it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  San Francisco  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net . 