-- Most Read on Bloomberg: Apple, Verizon, BlackRock, Policewoman
-- B y   A u d r e y   B a r k e r
-- 2013-09-15T04:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/most-read-on-bloomberg-apple-verizon-blackrock-policewoman.html
The following list comprises the
most-read  Bloomberg News  reports from the past week.  STORIES  1. Apple Drops as IPhone Models Reflect Shift From Pioneer: Tech  Sept. 11 (Bloomberg) -- Apple Inc. fell the most in almost
five months after unveiling two iPhones that were criticized by
analysts as lacking enough new features or a sufficiently low
price to attract a broad range of new customers.  2. Verizon Produces $2.54 Billion Windfall for Bond Sale Buyers  Sept. 12 (Bloomberg) -- Verizon Communications Inc.
rewarded investors with a profit of about $2.54 billion for
agreeing to buy the record $49 billion of bonds it sold
yesterday as the price of the securities surged.  3. BlackRock Predicts Deeper  Emerging-Markets  Rout: Credit
Markets  Sept. 9 (Bloomberg) -- Wall Street’s biggest firms are
predicting intensifying bond losses in emerging markets, where
borrowing costs have already soared to the highest in more than
four years versus U.S. corporate debt, as the  Federal Reserve 
considers curtailing record stimulus.  4. Policewoman Gang-Raped After Sister Dies Sees India Calamity  Sept. 10 (Bloomberg) -- A police officer who was gang raped
three weeks ago as she escorted her sister’s body to be cremated
says the national outrage over the fatal sexual assault of a
student in December has done little to change the lives of most
Indian women.  5. Verizon Pays Premium to Top Apple Bond Record: Corporate
Finance  Sept. 11 (Bloomberg) -- Verizon Communications Inc. paid
investors a premium on an unprecedented $49 billion of bonds, a
cost Apple Inc. escaped during its then-record $17 billion
offering four months ago.  6. Apple Unveils New IPhones at Cheaper Price to Combat Rivals  Sept. 10 (Bloomberg) -- Apple Inc. unveiled two new
iPhones, including a cheaper $99 version in bright colors and an
updated high-end device, in a strategy shift by Chief Executive
Officer  Tim Cook  to reach a broader range of customers around
the world.  7. Stocks Advance on China Exports While Yen Weakens on Olympics  Sept. 9 (Bloomberg) -- Stocks rose in the U.S. and emerging
markets and currencies from  South Korea ’s won to  Malaysia ’s
ringgit strengthened as Chinese exports topped forecasts.
Japanese shares gained and the yen weakened after  Tokyo  was
selected to host the 2020 Olympics.  8. How Wal-Mart’s Waltons Maintain Their Billionaire Fortune:
Taxes  Sept. 12 (Bloomberg) -- Visitors to the Crystal Bridges
Museum of American Art in Bentonville,  Arkansas , leave
appreciative notes on a glass wall near the entrance.  9. Druckenmiller Says Fed Exit Would Be ‘Big Deal’ for Markets  Sept. 11 (Bloomberg) --  Stanley Druckenmiller , who boasts
one of the hedge-fund industry’s best long-term track records of
the past three decades, said it would be a “big deal” for
financial markets if the Federal Reserve were to completely end
its asset purchases as outlined over the next 12 months.  10. Ex-JPMorgan Trader Fighting Charges Said to Point to Iksil  Sept. 13 (Bloomberg) -- Julien Grout, a former JPMorgan
Chase & Co. trader charged with trying to hide the bank’s record
trading loss last year, is arguing to prosecutors that he was
following orders from his then-boss, Bruno Iksil, people with
knowledge of the matter said.  COLUMNS  1. Good Times Are Rolling Again in the Hamptons: William D.
Cohan  Sept. 11 (Bloomberg) -- The most disappointing fact about
how little things have changed on  Wall Street  five years after
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. is not that the
Dodd-Frank Act is ineffective.  2. Are Emerging Economies Approaching a Lost Decade?: Anders
Aslund  Sept. 11 (Bloomberg) -- Financial markets are signaling
that several major emerging economies may be approaching crisis.  3. Major in Engineering, No Hard Courses Required: Norman
Matloff  Sept. 12 (Bloomberg) -- California Polytechnic State
University’s campus in San Luis Obispo has an odd-sounding new
major: liberal arts and engineering studies. What’s next,
chemistry and philosophy? Statistics and mythology (“lies,
damned lies and myths”)?  4. Five Least Bad Reasons for the Fed to Taper Now: Caroline
Baum  Sept. 12 (Bloomberg) -- There is no time like the present.
That’s what my mother and father always told me, and that’s
something the Federal Reserve should keep in mind when policy
makers gather next week to consider tapering asset purchases.  5. Why Didn’t Anyone at Lehman Get Pinched?: Jonathan Weil  Sept. 9 (Bloomberg) -- The most frustrating part of the
Securities and Exchange Commission’s investigation of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. isn’t that the agency never sued any of
its former executives. It’s that that the SEC never explained
its reasons or told the public what it found.  MULTIMEDIA  1. Carney Says BOE Guidance Is Reinforcing U.K. Recovery  Sept. 12 (Bloomberg) -- Bank of England Governor Mark
Carney talks about the bank’s forward guidance policy,
unemployment target and inflation outlook.  2. New Stingray Quickest Base Corvette Ever, Engineer Says  Sept. 12 (Bloomberg) -- Tadge Juechter, chief engineer for
the Chevrolet Corvette at General Motors Co., provides a walk-around tour of the 2014 Corvette Stingray in a promotional video
from GM.  3. Apple Unveils New IPhone 5C With Cheaper Price  Sept. 10 (Bloomberg) -- Tim Cook, chief executive officer
of Apple Inc., and  Phil Schiller , senior vice president, speak
about the new iPhone 5C, which will start selling at $99 with a
two-year contract and come in five colors.  4. Artemis Racing Failure to Reach Americas Cup  Sept. 12 (Bloomberg) -- This report contains video of
Artemis Racing, which challenged for the 34th America’s Cup in
 San Francisco  and represents the Royal Swedish Yacht Club.  5. Stan Druckenmiller Says Fed Exit Would Be ‘Big Deal’  Sept. 11 (Bloomberg) -- Stanley Druckenmiller, founder of
Duquesne Capital Management LLC and one of the best performing
hedge fund managers of the past three decades, talks about U.S.
entitlement spending, political gridlock in  Washington , Federal
Reserve policy and leadership, and investment strategy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Audrey Barker in  New York  at 
 abarker3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Mirabella at 
 amirabella@bloomberg.net  