-- Protalix Tumbles to Two-Year Low on Notes as Sales Drop
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n
-- 2013-09-15T13:50:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/protalix-tumbles-to-two-year-low-on-notes-as-sales-drop.html
Protalix BioTherapeutics Inc. (PLX) , the
Israeli drugmaker that has never posted a profit, tumbled to an
almost two-year low in  Tel Aviv  as the sale of $60 million in
convertible notes added to concern over declining revenue.  Shares of the Carmiel, Israel-based drugmaker plunged 10
percent to 16.75 shekels, or $4.72, the lowest since October
2011, at the close in Tel Aviv. The New York shares declined 11
percent to $4.65 last week. Trading volume in New York on Sept.
13 was eight times the average over the past 90 days.  Thirty-day  volatility  for Protalix surged to a 15-month
high last week in the U.S. amid concern that the sale of
convertible notes will sink its stock value. Protalix, whose
sales have trailed forecasts in three of the past four quarters,
will post a  wider loss  this year amid a drop in revenue,
according to the average estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The company “is not performing well operationally,”
Raghuram Selvaraju, analyst at Aegis Capital, said by phone
Sept. 13. “There is no long-term upside. It is difficult for
Protalix to take patients away from entrenched competitors as
the pool for patients for orphan drugs is already small.”  Protalix said it sold $60 million of convertible notes
through a private placement. The offering gives buyers the right
to exchange the bonds for common shares at $5.76 per share at a
later date. Protalix will pay a 4.5 percent interest rate on the
debt, which is unsecured and matures in five years.  Drug Approvals  The proceeds of the sale will go toward funding clinical
trials, research and development, and enhancing manufacturing
capabilities. Protalix’s first drug, taliglucerase alfa, was
approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in May 2012
and has since been approved by authorities in Israel and  Brazil .
The Gaucher Disease drug was rejected by the European Medicines
Agency in June 2012 because a competing treatment from  Shire Plc (SHP) 
was granted exclusive market rights for ten years.  Last week’s drop in the U.S. was the biggest since the week
ended Feb. 17, 2012 when the stock declined 12 percent following
a  secondary offering  of 5.2 million shares of common stock at
$5.25. The stock has had a 20 percent or lower buy rating over
the past 14 months from analysts, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, from an 80 percent ratio in April 2012. Sales at
Protalix will drop 23 percent in 2013, according to the  mean
estimate  of four analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in  New York  at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  