-- Rabobank Will Open Four Turkish Commercial Bank Branches
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-09-15T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/rabobank-will-open-four-turkish-commercial-bank-branches.html
Rabobank Groep, the biggest Dutch
agricultural lender, will tap the growing market in  Turkey  by
opening as many as four branches for commercial banking after
getting regulatory approval last month.  The Dutch bank, formed in 1898 as a cooperative lender
serving Dutch farmers, will open the first branch in Istanbul,
Sipko Schat, Rabobank board member responsible for commercial
banking, said in a telephone interview today. That number may
grow to four in the next three to four years, he said, with
staff increasing to between 100 and 150 from about 20.  Rabobank, grappling with a contracting economy at home, is
focusing on food and agricultural industries in faster-growing
markets including Brazil and Turkey as it trims some operations
elsewhere. After obtaining approval to establish a bank in
Turkey with $300 million in capital last month, it can start
trying to expand in a market where banks had a return on equity
of 16 percent in the first half of the year.  “The Turkish banking industry is highly developed and
competitive, in our segment in particular,” Schat said.
“Returns are important but for us the importance is mainly in
its growth potential, the strategic location and export
potential.”  Expansion Plans  Rabobank will initially offer trade financing and treasury
services in the country, Schat said. The expansion in Turkey
fits Rabobank’s strategy of becoming the leading food and
agricultural bank globally and to serve Dutch clients abroad, he
said.  Turkey’s gross domestic product grew 4.4 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, boosted by  government
spending  and a pickup in consumption, the statistics office in
Ankara said last week. Risks to growth include a plunge in the
lira and government bonds, as U.S. plans to start withdrawing
stimulus hurt emerging market assets.  “We see the impact of tapering as temporary -- it may last
for another year,” Schat said. “Still, in the medium to long
term it’s a very interesting country with a prospect of multi-year growth. Also, many of our clients are exporters, they
benefit as their costs are in liras and their revenue in
dollars.”  Rabobank has had a representative office in Istanbul for 15
years, Schat said. The company was in talks with Turkish
regulators to get a license since 2011 after failing in a bid to
buy a stake in agricultural lender  Sekerbank TAS (SKBNK)  in 2006.  Indonesia Sale  Rabobank is also offloading assets. The firm sold its
asset-management unit Robeco to  Orix Corp. (8591)  in July for 1.94
billion euros ($2.6 billion) after disposing of a controlling
stake in Swiss private bank Bank Sarasin & Cie. in 2012. A sale
of its Indonesian operations was halted in June after local
regulators imposed tighter restrictions on overseas bank
acquisitions.  The firm is now in talks to sell a minority stake in its
Indonesian unit, Schat said. At the same time, it’s trying to
win approval to set up a representative office in Nairobi, as a
hub for Zambia, Tanzania and surrounding countries, where it
also sees growth potential, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  