-- Raiffeisen Warns on Corporate Loans in Austria, Slovenia
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-09-15T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/raiffeisen-warns-on-corporate-loans-in-austria-slovenia.html
Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ,
Austria’s third-biggest lender, said souring corporate loans to
large Austrian clients and an asset-quality review in Slovenia
will cause provisions to rise as much as 20 percent this year.  Raiffeisen, based in Vienna, the second-biggest bank in
eastern Europe after  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , now expects loan loss
provisions to rise to as much as 1.2 billion euros ($1.6
billion) this year, it said in a statement late yesterday. The
company last reiterated its forecast on Aug. 22, saying any debt
charges would remain on a “similar” level as last year’s 1.009
billion euros. The average analyst estimate is 1.004 billion
euros, according to the company’s own survey published on its
 website .  “The revision is based predominantly on the development of
the corporate customer business in the segments Group
Corporates,  Central Europe  and Southeastern Europe,” Raiffeisen
said in the statement. “The rest of RBI’s Outlook is
confirmed.”  Raiffeisen is struggling with persistent bad debt in its
eastern European businesses, especially in  Hungary , Ukraine and
the former  Yugoslavia , and with a rising number of corporate
insolvencies and restructurings in Austria. Provisions for non-performing loans are weighing down the earnings that new Chief
Executive Karl Sevelda needs to prop up  capital ratios  and
underpin dividends his shareholders demand.  Among the main causes for the increase in provisions are
large Austrian corporate loans and loans to clients in  China 
that are related to cases of fraud, Susanne Langer, a
spokeswoman, said by telephone.  Slovenia Review  A bank asset quality review in  Slovenia  that was demanded
by the European Union triggered the increase in provisions in
that country, Langer said. The lender is already in the process
of cutting down by two thirds its money-losing unit in the part
of the country that borders Austria’s southern frontier.  Burdened by non-performing loans equaling about a fifth of
the economy, Slovenia’s mostly state-owned banks pushed the
Adriatic country to the brink of a bailout in March. A dispute
with the EU over the size of the banks’ capital needs and the
value of their bad assets has delayed Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek’s plan to fix the banks by raising their capital and
shifting non-performing loans to a bad bank.  Corporate loan losses in  Bulgaria  and a “methodology
change” in Albania that caused more loans to be classified as
non-performing also contributed to the higher loan loss
provisions, Langer said.  Raiffeisen sticks to its forecast that lending volume will
remain little changed and the net interest margin will rise this
year, the company said. There were no provisions for possible
losses on foreign-currency mortgages in Hungary because the
precise shape of the government’s plans to impose currency
losses on banks is not yet certain, Langer said.  Raiffeisen has lost 15 percent this year, making it the
second-worst performer in the Stoxx 600 Banks index after  Bankia
SA (BKIA)  amid concerns its weak  capital ratios  may force it to do a
dilutive rights issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  