-- Record Rout in Government Banks as Buffers Drop: Corporate India
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-09-15T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/record-rout-in-government-banks-as-buffers-drop-corporate-india.html
Shares of  India ’s state-run banks
are trading near record-low  valuations  as concern grows about
narrowing risk buffers and rising bad loans.  Indian Bank,  United Bank (UNTDB)  of India Ltd. and  Union Bank of
India , have fallen more than 55 percent this year to Sept. 12,
the most among the nine government banks that are leading
declines for India’s 40 bank stocks. Shares of the nine lenders
are all trading below the value of their assets amid lower-than-average capital adequacy levels and bad loan ratios that are
about double those of private-sector lenders.  Banking Secretary Rajiv Takru fueled the S&P BSE Bankex
index’s slump to a 19-month low two weeks ago after signaling
the government may delay a capital infusion into the banks it
controls. Takru’s retreat from earlier comments that India will
inject as much as 140 billion rupees ($2.2 billion) by September
comes at a time when  default risk  is rising in an economy that
grew at the  slowest pace  in four years in the June quarter.  “The current slowdown in the economy will be deeper and
more painful than we earlier expected,” Saswata Guha, a Mumbai-based director at Fitch Ratings’s India unit, said by telephone.
“With the pain on asset quality expected to continue for at
least another 12 months, provisions will go up, profits will
fall and the viability ratings of state-run banks will see
further downward pressure.”  Government lenders have historically been undercapitalized
relative to their privately owned peers as a regulation
requiring state ownership be maintained at 51 percent curtails
the banks’ ability to raise capital by selling shares.  Stringent Rules  Capital adequacy ratios at the state-run banks according to
the so-called Basel II rules were at an average 12.4 percent as
of March 31, lower than the 13.8 percent mean for all banks in
the country, data compiled by the central bank show. Indian
banks started reporting ratios under the more stringent Basel
III requirements only in June.  India has a minimum regulatory requirement of 9 percent.
Chennai-based  Indian Bank (INBK)  had a Basel II capital adequacy ratio
of 13.1 percent as of June 30, exchange filings show.  United
Bank  reported 11.7 percent and Union Bank’s capital ratio was at
11.1 percent, the filings show.  Indian Bank slumped 64 percent this year to Sept. 12 and
trades for 0.3 times the value of its assets, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. United Bank also has a price-to-book ratio of
0.3 times after sinking 59 percent. Union Bank is at 0.4 times
following a 57 percent slide.  Risk Weightings  T M Bhasin, Indian Bank’s chairman, Archana Bhargava,
United Bank’s chairman and Debabrata Sarkar, Union Bank’s
chairman didn’t respond to an e-mail and two calls to their
office.  Bank of India (BOI) , based in Mumbai, has fallen 52 percent this
year and trades at 0.4 times book. The  company  said it plans to
exit accounts that attract higher risk weightings to improve its
capital ratio to about 11.5 percent by March 2014, spokesman N.
Venkatachalam wrote in a Sept. 7 e-mail.  By contrast,  Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. (KMB) , the only stock among
its peers to advance this year to Sept. 12 with a 7.8 percent
gain, reported a capital adequacy ratio of 18.8 percent,
exchange filings show. IndusInd Bank Ltd., the second-best
performer with a 4.8 percent drop, had a ratio higher than 14
percent as of June 30. Both banks are not controlled by the
government.  “I have been switching from the public sector to select
private sector banks where the relative price to book is
attractive,” said Chirag Setalvad, a  fund manager  with HDFC
Asset Management Co., India’s biggest money manager.  ‘Disproportionate Share’  Investors are favoring privately owned lenders on bets they
can better absorb rising bad loans in India. The gross bad loan
ratio at the state-run banks rose to 3.84 percent as of March
31, more than double of 1.91 percent at the private sector
lenders, central bank data show.  India’s economy  grew 4.4 percent in the three months to
June 30, the least in seventeen quarters, government data showed
on August 30. The ability of most Indian companies to generate
cash and service debt is at the lowest level since 2008 as
growth slows, Deep Narayan Mukherjee, a Mumbai-based director at
Fitch’s Indian unit, said last month.  Bad loans at Indian lenders climbed to 3.9 percent of total
lending as of June 30, the highest level in at least six years,
from 2.4 percent in March 2011, according to an Aug. 22 report
from the RBI. State-controlled banks account for a
“disproportionate share” of the surge in soured debt,
according to the report.  RBI Governor  Mumbai-based  State Bank of India , the nation’s largest by
assets, posted a 14 percent decline in net income for the
quarter ended June 30 as bad loans climbed. Gross bad loans
expanded to 5.6 percent of the total by the end of June, from
almost 5 percent a year earlier, the filing showed.  Indian Bank reported a gross nonperforming loan ratio of
3.4 percent as of June 30, compared to 5.6 percent at United
Bank and Union Bank’s 3.5 percent, exchange filings show. Kotak
Mahindra Bank had a ratio of 2 percent, while IndusInd Bank
reported 1.1 percent.  Respite may come from the  Reserve Bank  of India after new
Governor  Raghuram Rajan  unveiled proposals to improve the
banking system on his first day in office. There’s a need to cut
the requirement for banks to invest in  government securities  to
ensure lending to productive sectors of the economy, Rajan said
Sept. 4.  ‘Long-term Impact’  The central bank on Sept. 11 said it’s creating a database
that will list liabilities of over 100 million rupees. Rajan
earlier this month said the RBI will also look at ways to
improve the recovery mechanism for bad loans and allow some
lenders to open branches without seeking RBI approval.  The steps “will have a major long-term impact on bank
profitability and growth,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by
Seshadri Sen wrote in a Sept. 4 report.  The Bankex Index has climbed 15 percent since Rajan’s
comments. The extra yield on  State Bank of India (SBIN) ’s bonds due
2017 over U.S. Treasuries has fallen to 308 basis points from
418 on Aug. 20, which was the highest since the notes were
issued in July 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Nitin Kumar, Mumbai-based banking analyst at Quant Broking
Ltd., is more circumspect about the impact of the measures, some
of which could be years away from being introduced. What’s
needed are steps to reduce short-term borrowing costs that
surged after the central bank started taking steps on July 15 to
stem a slump in the rupee, Kumar said by phone on Sept. 5.  Three-month  interbank  borrowing rates surged to 11.6
percent on Sept. 4, the highest in almost 5 years, according to
data from the National Stock Exchange of India.  Asset Quality  “There is no silver lining as far as asset quality is
concerned,” Kumar said. “Falling capital ratios will make it
tougher for banks to take the hit. There is no visibility as far
as an end to the economic uncertainties is concerned.”  Option prices show traders are paying the most in two years
to protect against losses in Indian stocks amid growing concern
over the slowing economy. Puts with an exercise price 10 percent
below the  CNX Nifty Index (NIFTY)  cost 15.6 points more than calls
betting on a 10 percent gain, one-month implied volatility data
compiled by Bloomberg showed last week.  The average cost of insuring the debt of five Indian
lenders against non-payment for five years using credit-default
swaps jumped 94 basis points in 2013 to 348, according to data
provider CMA. It is near the highest in more than an year,
according to data compiled from prices quoted by dealers in
privately negotiated markets.  India may delay injecting capital into state-run banks due
to slumping stock prices, Takru, the  Finance Ministry ’s banking
secretary, said Aug. 19 in an interview. The government, which
usually infuses capital into lenders by buying their shares,
doesn’t want to lose money as prices slide, he said at the time.  Risk Buffers  Takru had said on July 9 the government will inject as much
as 140 billion rupees by the end of September to strengthen
banks’ risk buffers and bolster credit growth.  CLSA Asia Pacific Markets cut their earnings estimates for
Indian banks by as much as 14 percent for the 2014-2016 business
years to account for the slowing economy and elevated borrowing
costs, analysts led by Aashish Agarwal wrote in a Sept. 10
report. Government banks are most exposed because of their
lending to smaller companies, they wrote.  “Slower economic growth and higher  interest rates  will put
pressure on corporate profitability that will transpire into
asset quality issue for banks,” the CLSA analysts wrote. State-run lenders “are most vulnerable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  