-- Rightmove Raises U.K. House Price Forecast After Summer Lull
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-09-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/rightmove-raises-u-k-house-price-forecast-after-summer-lull.html
Rightmove Plc (RMV)  increased its 2013
U.K. house-price growth forecast amid signs that sellers are
again seeking to push values higher after a summer slowdown that
saw asking prices fall for a second month in September.  Prices sought  fell 1.5 percent nationally and in London
from August, the property-website operator said in a report
today. Rightmove said  home prices  will increase 6 percent this
year instead of the 4 percent it previously estimated.  “While prices fell during the month overall, the last
couple of weeks have seen the start of a turnaround, with more
sellers choosing to come to market and pitching at higher prices
as momentum rebuilds,” said  Miles Shipside , director at
Rightmove. “This month’s failure to deliver fresh supply and
the resulting fall in property on agents’ books will ‘prime the
pump’ for an autumn price surge as buyer confidence and activity
continue to increase.”  Nationally,  values  were up 4.5 percent this month from a
year earlier, while prices in London were 8.2 percent higher,
Rightmove said. In London, asking prices fell by 7.4 percent on
the month in the City of Westminster. They declined by 5 percent
in Camden and by 3.3 percent in Kensington and Chelsea. The
average asking price in the U.K. is 245,495 pounds ($389,300).  Measures by the government and the  Bank of England  to
improve credit availability have boosted demand. The Treasury’s
Help-to-Buy program is already providing interest-free loans
for new-build homes and a second stage in 2014 will give banks
government guarantees on loans to buyers of both new and
existing homes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  