-- Sasol Seeks Cash for $7 Billion Dixie Dream: South Africa Credit
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-09-16T10:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/sasol-seeks-cash-for-7-billion-dixie-dream-south-africa-credit.html
South Africa’s  Sasol Ltd. (SOL)  is
seeking project finance and loans, and may also sell bonds in
the U.S., to fund a petrochemical plant in  Louisiana  costing as
much as $7 billion, the chief executive officer said.  Sasol needs to raise $5 billion to $7 billion to build a
cracker near  Lake Charles , Louisiana, which will convert ethane
natural gas to ethylene, used to produce raw materials for goods
such as paint and detergents, and start up in 2017, CEO David Constable said.  “We’ll look at some  project financing  as well as most
likely some U.S. bonds,” Constable, 51, said in a Sept. 9
interview from Johannesburg, where the company is based. “We’re
comfortable with our ability to fund.”  The hunt for cash comes against a backdrop of see-sawing
markets that drove Sasol’s November 2022 bond yield to a record
6.2 percent on Sept. 5, before falling 27 basis points since
then. The average rate for dollar debt of emerging-market oil
and gas companies has dropped 16 basis points in the period,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes  show.  While Sasol, rated BBB at  Standard & Poor’s , has yet to
arrange any loans for the project, similarly rated Glencore
Xstrata Plc, a global commodities trader, paid 90 basis points
more than benchmark rates on the three-year portion of its $17.3
billion financing earlier this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. BBB is the second-lowest investment grade at S&P.
Sasol hasn’t responded to an e-mailed request for comment sent
after business hours on Sept. 13.  Yield Increase  The cracker will precede a facility that will convert gas
to liquid fuel, the first of its kind in the U.S., which will
cost as much as $14 billion. Sasol, the world’s biggest producer
of motor fuel from coal, will make the final  investment decision 
on the cracker in 2014, and the verdict for the gas-to-liquids
plant, which will also be in Louisiana, will follow 18 months to
24 months later.  Project financing involves lenders being repaid from a
specific project’s revenue and having no claim on other assets.  Borrowing costs for emerging-market companies have been
rising in the past three months as the  Federal Reserve  considers
curtailing record stimulus, signaling a reduction in the flood
of cheap money that has propped up assets prices from South
Africa to  Singapore .  The extra yield that buyers demand to own dollar-denominated emerging-market debt instead of Treasuries climbed
45 basis points, or 0.45 percentage point, this year to 359
basis points on Sept. 13,  JPMorgan indexes  show.  Testing Waters  “We can clearly see that there is a decrease in appetite
for emerging-market risk,” Simon Redmond, a London-based credit
analyst at S&P, said by phone on Sept. 10. “While there may be
some increase in the cost of funding for Sasol, I don’t think
that the movements we’ve seen in the markets are currently a
cause for concern in terms of any potential future debt issues.
It depends on how far some of these trends run.”  Sasol sold $1 billion of bonds in its first offer in the
U.S. currency in November.  “We were testing the water and seeing what appetite there
was,” Constable said. “The response was strong and that means
bond investors support our long-term strategy, which is very
good for us.”  The gas for the plant, which will produce 1.5 million
metric tons of ethylene annually, will come from fields using
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, a process in which millions
of gallons of water, sand and chemicals are pumped underground
to break apart a rock formation and release natural gas. The
ethylene will be used in satellite plants on the same site to
produce the raw materials for products including soft-drink cans
and detergents, Constable said.  Cost Estimates  Sasol will probably reach final cost estimates in February
or March, he said. It will start talking to contractors and
banks at the end of this year before lining up funding in 2014.  “There is some headroom to increase debt but if we look at
that on a cash-flow cover basis, there could be a risk if the
operating performance deteriorates once investment in the
project has started,” S&P’s Redmond said. “The leverage
measures start to look a bit weaker.”  Shale Gas  Sasol decided to build the plant in the U.S. because of the
country’s abundance of shale gas, Constable said. The company
would consider building a similar operation in  South Africa  if
the government permitted environmentally friendly shale-gas
extraction with the right regulatory framework, he said.  South Africa’s rand has slipped 13 percent against the
dollar this year, making it the worst performer among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The rand gained 1.6 percent to
9.7764 per dollar by 12:15 p.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on the
government’s rand bonds due December 2026 have climbed 78 basis
points this year to 8.07 percent.  “The ethane coming off shale gas puts us way down on the
cost curve,” Constable said. “The U.S. is going to stay there
for some decades to come.”  Once the plants are built, they will convert natural gas
into 4 million tons a year, or 96,000 barrels a day, of
transport fuel including gas-to-liquids diesel. Sasol’s
expertise in converting gas and coal into fuel comes from South
Africa’s apartheid era, when the country faced sanctions on
importing oil.  “We’re quite comfortable with the different options in
front of us,” Constable said. “We’ll keep a close eye on the
 bond market  obviously.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  