-- Shanghai Free Trade Zone to Boost China’s Competitiveness
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-15T06:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/shanghai-free-trade-zone-to-boost-china-s-competitiveness.html
China’s plan for a free trade zone
in  Shanghai  is “very positive” and will help improve the
country’s competitiveness, World Bank President Jim Yong Kim
said.  “Every single country in the world is trying to become
competitive and I think this free trade zone will allow China to
become more competitive,” Kim said at a briefing in Shanghai
today at the start of a four-day visit. The government is
committed to financial and fiscal policy reforms which will pave
the way for long-term expansion, he said.  Premier  Li Keqiang  will this month officiate at an opening
ceremony for the zone which will test economic and financial
changes including interest-rate liberalization, Bloomberg News
reported on Sept. 13, citing two people with knowledge of the
matter. China may see the weakest expansion in 23 years this
year and Li warned last week that the country will fail to
achieve sustained growth unless it restructures the economy.  “These kinds of financial sector reforms can be difficult,
but they are critical,” Kim said. “We want to be as supportive
as we can be of the government in tackling these kinds of
difficult financial sector reforms even in a time when growth is
slowing.”  China’s economy   expanded  7.7 percent last year, the least
since 1999, and the pace may weaken to 7.5 percent this year,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey in
August. That would be the slowest rate since 1990 and match the
government’s target set in March.  ‘Fundamental Problems’  Chinese leaders are seeking to maintain confidence in the
economy. President  Xi Jinping  said this month the government
chose to bring down the growth rate to solve “fundamental
problems” hindering long-run development. Speaking in Dalian on
Sept. 11, Li said China will focus on shifting its growth model
while ensuring economic expansion remains within a “reasonable
range.”  “Everyone in the world is looking at Chinese growth
numbers,” Kim said today. “The fact the government is saying,
well, it’s a little bit slower, but we are committed to quality,
we are committed to reforms we need to take, I think is a cause
for great optimism for long term growth.”  China’s State Council, headed by Li, approved the Shanghai
free trade zone in July. While no detailed policies have yet
been released, a draft plan seen by  Bloomberg News  included
expanded opportunities for foreign companies in industries from
banking to health insurance.  Yuan Convertibility  HSBC Holdings Plc, Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. and Standard
Chartered Bank Plc say the zone will also test interest-rate
liberalization and freer  yuan  convertibility, and promote
development of services industries. An opening ceremony will
take place on a day from Sept. 27 to 29, depending on Li’s
schedule, two people with knowledge of the matter said last week.  The focus of Kim’s visit to China from Sept. 15 to 18 is
 climate change , according to a World Bank statement last week.
While in Shanghai, he was scheduled to visit projects that are
helping the city shift to a low-carbon growth model, it said.  The  World Bank  is working with China on a broad climate-change agenda that includes promoting clean energy, reducing
traffic jams and air pollution and improving flood risk
management, Kim said at today’s briefing. China is the world’s
largest carbon-dioxide emitter and biggest coal user.  The State Council last week released a plan to reduce coal
consumption, close steel plants and control the number of cars
on its roads to “gradually eliminate” heavily polluted days
within a decade. The proposals flesh out Li’s pledge in March to
clean up pollution after concentrations of PM2.5, the most-damaging particulate matter, soared to almost 40 times the  World
Health Organization ’s recommended level in Beijing in January.  Strategic Approach  Kim will also visit Beijing for meetings with state leaders
which will include discussions on  China ’s urbanization
challenges, according to the World Bank’s Sept. 12 statement
that didn’t name the officials.  Li last year asked the World Bank and the State Council’s
Development Research Center to work on a joint study to develop
a new model of urbanization for China. Li, who was vice premier
at the time, asked for the research to help form his own
strategic approach to urbanization, Kim said at a briefing in
November.  The report is still being prepared and will be published in
December, Kim said today.  The World Bank and the DRC released a 448-page report last
year titled “ China 2030 ,” which was conceived to help China
avoid the  middle-income  trap. The term refers to a situation
where the pace of productivity gains and growth decelerates
sharply, as an economy classified by the lender as “middle
income” fails to carry out reforms and upgrade its industrial
structure, preventing its rise to “high income” status.  Li has championed urbanization as a “huge engine” for
growth as he seeks to shift the world’s second-largest economy
toward a model that relies on consumption rather than investment
and exports. Policy makers are drafting plans to implement the
strategy ahead of a key Communist Party meeting later this year.  -- Michael Wei  and Nerys Avery. Editors: Nerys Avery, James Mayger  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net 
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  