-- SNC-Lavalin’s Ethics Focus Is Encouraging, Canada’s Baird Says
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-09-15T23:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/snc-lavalin-s-ethics-focus-is-encouraging-canada-s-baird-says.html
Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister
 John Baird  said he’s pleased to see  SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. (SNC) 
emphasize ethics under new Chief Executive Officer Robert Card.  Baird was speaking after a  meeting  with his Algerian
counterpart,  Ramtane Lamamra . SNC-Lavalin, Canada’s biggest
engineering and construction company, had its offices in  Algeria 
searched by police earlier this year in connection with a
corruption probe involving government contracts, Radio-Canada
and other media  reported  in June.  “What I said in Algeria re: SNC-Lavalin is that there is
new leadership and a new way of doing business, focused on
ethics,” Baird said today on his Twitter  account . “Any party
who is found to have broken the law will be judged under the
law. Canadian companies by and large represent Canada well
abroad, and we are encouraged by the changes SNC continue to
make.”  Card, who took over in October, has appointed senior
managers -- including the company’s first ever chief compliance
officer -- after vowing to ensure Montreal-based SNC-Lavalin
kept its “social license to operate.” Card’s predecessor was
arrested last year by the Quebec anti-corruption unit and
formally charged with fraud, conspiracy to commit fraud and
forgery in February.  SNC-Lavalin had one of its subsidiaries and more than 100
affiliates debarred for 10 years by the  World Bank  after
“misconduct” in relation to a bridge project in Bangladesh,
according to a World Bank  statement  dated April 17. The
misconduct “involved a conspiracy to pay bribes and
misrepresentations” when bidding for World Bank-financed
contracts, in violation of the lender’s procurement guidelines,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  