-- U.K. Liberal Democrats Vote to Back Nuclear Plants in U-Turn
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-09-15T13:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/u-k-liberal-democrats-vote-to-back-nuclear-plants-in-u-turn.html
The Liberal Democrats, junior
partners in the U.K.’s governing coalition, voted to back the
building of new nuclear power stations in a reversal of party
policy.  Party activists, who previously voted against nuclear
energy, backed a motion today at their party’s conference in
Glasgow, Scotland, which said that “nuclear power stations
could play a limited role in electricity supply.” They also
gave their support to fracking for shale gas, a practice that’s
drawn protests in Britain.  “When I have listened to the arguments of pro-nuclear
Liberal Democrats in recent years, the one argument I found
increasingly difficult to answer is the climate-change argument,
because climate change poses a real and massive danger to our
planet,” Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  told delegates. “Not
keeping a genuinely low-carbon source of electricity as an
option looks reckless when we don’t know the future.”  The Liberal Democrats have slowed the development of
fracking, which has been championed by Prime Minister David Cameron and Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne from
their Conservative coalition partners, Davey said. The policy
motion passed today supports the practice so long as pollution
controls are enforced, local people retain control over planning
decisions and compensation is paid to communities.  “Let’s be the voice of green reason in the shale debate
and reject the zealots who claim it’s a catastrophe, reject the
vested interests who argue it answers all Britain’s energy
problems -- they are both wrong,” Davey said. “I’ve been
cautious on shale, avoiding hyperbole, weighing up the evidence,
insisting on firm regulation. I’ve been fracking-responsible.”  Delegates also voted to prioritize the building of
international interconnectors and to back the development of
energy storage in the U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in Glasgow,  Scotland , at  tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  