-- U.S. Lines Up Allied Support for Chemical Weapons Plan
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n ,   T e r r y   A t l a s   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-09-16T09:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/u-s-lines-up-allied-support-for-chemical-weapons-plan.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
met with French President  Francois Hollande  and his counterparts
from France and the U.K. to build support for a plan to
eliminate  Syria ’s chemical weapons.  Kerry plans also to meet ministers from Turkey and  Saudi
Arabia , both backers of the rebel forces seeking to topple
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. The Paris discussions come as
the  United Nations  prepares to release, as early as today, an
inspection team’s report on a chemical weapons attack that the
U.S. says killed more than 1,400 people.  Speaking after a meeting yesterday with Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  in  Jerusalem , Kerry said the use of
force remains an option if Assad fails to comply with the plan.
Kerry negotiated the accord with Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov .  The agreement establishes a framework for finding, securing
and destroying Assad’s stocks of poison gas. The deal calls for
early signs of progress, giving Assad a week to submit an
inventory of his toxic weapons, with initial inspections in
Syria by November.  “We’ve been closely following and support your ongoing
efforts to rid Syria of these chemical weapons,” Netanyahu told
Kerry after the meeting. The U.S. top diplomat said the Obama
administration was determined to hold Assad accountable. “The
threat of force is real,” Kerry said. “We cannot have hollow
words in the conduct of foreign affairs.”  ‘Prevent War’  The agreement between the U.S. and  Russia , a longtime ally
of Syria, calls for a UN  Security Council  resolution compelling
Assad’s regime to adhere to its terms. Russia previously has
used its veto in the Security Council to block UN condemnations
of Assad during Syria’s 2 1/2-year civil war.  “We welcome these agreements,” Syrian Minister for
National Reconciliation Ali Haidar said yesterday, according to
Russia’s RIA Novosti news agency. “On the one hand they help
Syrians get out of the crisis and on the other, they prevent war
against Syria, removing the pretext for those who wanted to wage
it.” Syrian Deputy Foreign Minister Faisal al-Mekdad said that
his government will deal with the agreement with “honesty and
transparency,” the state-run Sana news agency reported.  “The big question is, can it now be implemented?” Steven Pifer, director of the Arms Control Initiative at the  Brookings
Institution  in  Washington , said in an e-mail. “The early
deadline for Syria to fully declare its chemical weapons stocks
provides an early test of Syrian intent.”  Nuclear Weapons  Assad has denied his forces carried out an Aug. 21 gas
attack outside Damascus. The UN team isn’t allowed under its
mandate to assign responsibility.  Netanyahu, speaking before his meeting with Kerry, said the
success of the agreement will be gauged by tangible results, a
principle “that also applies to the international community’s
diplomatic efforts to stop the nuclear arming of  Iran .”  President  Barack Obama , in an ABC News interview that aired
yesterday, said the Syrian plan doesn’t mean the U.S. wouldn’t
take military action against Iran.  “I think what the Iranians understand is that the nuclear
issue is a far larger issue for us than the chemical weapons
issue,” he said. Iran, an ally of Assad, says its nuclear
program is designed for peaceful purposes.  Obama has twice delayed possible U.S. military action in
response to the Aug. 21 attack, most recently on Sept. 10, when
the president said the U.S. would explore an offer from Russia
for negotiations on removing Assad’s toxic armaments.  ‘Biggest Winner’  “If in fact this deal goes through, the biggest winner is
common sense, because the Obama administration had no good
option for dealing with chemical weapons,” Aaron  David Miller ,
a vice president at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars in Washington, said in a telephone interview.  The U.S. and Russia had been at odds about Syria and over
Russia’s harboring of former National Security Agency contractor
Edward Snowden, accused of exposing U.S. surveillance secrets.  Syrian rebel leaders said they wouldn’t interfere with
inspections, even as they criticized the accord. Questions about
whether Assad will go along with the removal of chemical
weapons, which the regime hadn’t acknowledged having until last
week, have also led to some criticism from U.S. lawmakers.  Slaughtering Civilians  Without a UN Security Council resolution authorizing force
unless Assad complies, “this framework agreement is
meaningless,” Republican Senators  John McCain  of Arizona and
 Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina said in a joint statement.
“Assad will use the months and months afforded him to delay and
deceive the world.”  Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat who leads the Armed
Services Committee, said in a statement that an enforceable
agreement to rid Syria of toxic arms “would be an even better
outcome” than the goals of a threatened U.S. military strike by
“not just deterring and degrading Assad’s chemical weapons
capability, but eliminating it altogether.”  Kerry has said that thorough inspections and verification
of disarmament moves are feasible because Assad controls all the
chemical weapons sites and can provide access to inspectors if
he chooses.  Peace Talks  The U.S. estimates that Syria has at least 45 weapons-related sites, about half of which contain significant
quantities of chemical agents, according to a U.S. official who
briefed reporters on condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive
negotiations.  Kerry and Lavrov said they hoped to use the deal to revive
stalled peace talks to end the fighting that’s killed more than
100,000 people. The two will meet this month with the UN’s Syria
envoy, Lakhdar Brahimi, to set a date for a peace conference in
Geneva.  While Assad has agreed to take part, the Syrian opposition
has insisted he step down as a condition for negotiations.  West Texas Intermediate crude fell for a second day on
signs that the threat of imminent military strikes against Syria
is receding. Oil for October delivery slid as much as $1.73 to
$106.48 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Gold for immediate delivery declined 0.9
percent to $1,314.61 an ounce by 10:42 a.m. in London.  Kerry said the U.S. and Russia agreed on the size of
Assad’s chemical arsenal. However, U.S. officials, speaking on
the condition of anonymity to discuss intelligence issues, have
said neither country knows how large an arsenal Syria has
amassed, nor where all of it is, in part because the Syrians
keep moving it.  ‘Hidden Sites’  A State Department official, briefing reporters in Geneva,
said many details have yet to be sorted out, including where the
chemical weapons would be destroyed.  “Just by having inspectors on many sites, even if it’s not
the majority of sites, even if there are hidden sites, that will
contribute to” the goal of preventing another chemical attack,
said Shashank Joshi, a research fellow at the  Royal United
Services Institute  in London.  In New York, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said Sept. 13
that the report by UN inspectors will confirm that chemical
weapons were used on Aug. 21. Syria and Russia have blamed anti-government “terrorists.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  