-- What Is John Boehner’s Legacy?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-09-15T22:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/what-is-john-boehner-s-legacy-.html
Pity  John Boehner . His Republican
majority in the U.S. House of Representatives, like his
speakership, depends on an unruly fringe of lawmakers who
disdain not just the idea of compromise but also the act of
governing. Yet he is the leader, as he  likes to say , of “one-half of one-third of the government,” and he can’t afford to
treat Congress as merely an ideological amusement park.  Like the guy at the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue,
however, Boehner asked for this job. As Congress faces not one
but two looming fiscal deadlines, Boehner would do well to ask
himself: How does he want to be remembered?  The federal government needs money for the new fiscal year,
which begins Oct. 1, and it will probably reach its debt limit a
few weeks later. Congress has the constitutional obligation to
appropriate the money that enables the government to function.
If it fails, the consequences -- both financial and economic, in
the U.S. and abroad -- would be dire.  But the radicals in the Republican caucus refuse to approve
either a budget or an increase in the debt limit without
repealing or defunding the Affordable Care Act. They have enough
votes to hold Boehner hostage, which they have been doing more
or less since he won the job, with the result that he has been
 reduced to asking  for Democrats’ help to pass legislation to
keep the government from shutting down.  This process shouldn’t be hard. In years past, it wasn’t.
But some members of Boehner’s party seem confused about the role
of campaigns and elections in a democracy. Republicans and
Democrats were on the ballot just 10 months ago. Republicans
lost the White House by more than 5 million votes. They failed
to oust the Democratic majority in the Senate, securing power
only in the House.  Voters dealt Boehner a weak hand. Even so, he has played it
badly, trying to appease the most adamant of his caucus, tying a
measure to fund the government to one that would defund and
postpone implementation of the dreaded health-care law. His plan
went awry when the rank and file realized that the Senate would
have been able to detach the funding mechanism from the
Obamacare killer, sending an unfettered funding bill on to the
president for signing. Boehner and his deputy, Majority Leader
 Eric Cantor  of  Virginia ,  were forced to  delay the vote.  Meanwhile, on the debt ceiling, Boehner appears to be
waiting for a deus ex machina -- a proposal from Russian
President  Vladimir Putin ? -- to extricate his caucus from a
fast-approaching debacle. Once again, the more radical members
of the party insist on flirting with financial ruin for the sake
of another wild stab at taking down Obamacare.  Boehner’s choice is of the  Hobson’s  variety -- which is to
say, no real choice at all. Either he must get his more
recalcitrant colleagues to face political reality, or he must
abandon them and throw in with House Democrats to pass bills
funding the government and lifting the debt ceiling. The first
option is probably impossible, the second surely career-ending.  The speaker deserves better. But there is no point in
sugarcoating it: The House’s recurring efforts to tar and
feather Obamacare -- it has voted to repeal, delay or defund all
or part of the law at least 40 times -- represent the bulk of
Boehner’s achievements. It’s a legacy marked by juvenility,
steeped in pathos, verging on abject failure.  Boehner, who got himself elected to the Republican
leadership not once but twice and once worked with such
Democrats as the late Senator  Edward Kennedy , is a skilled
politician and an able legislator. Saving the nation from
another manufactured crisis is not the highest use of his
talents. But as the speaker himself surely understands, it’s the
only use that matters.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 