-- Brent Crude Falls to Four-Week Low on Syria Weapons Talks
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-09-16T12:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/wti-extends-biggest-weekly-loss-since-july-on-syria-arms-plan.html
Brent crude  fell to its lowest in
four weeks on signs that the threat of imminent military strikes
against Syria is receding as the U.S. pursues a plan to
confiscate the nation’s chemical weapons.  Futures dropped as much as 2.7 percent to the lowest since
Aug. 20 as U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  met with French
President  Francois Hollande  and his counterparts from France and
the U.K. to build support for a plan to eliminate Syria’s
chemical weapons. Libya’s Sharara oil field may start today or
tomorrow after talks with protesters “produced some positive
results,” Ibrahim Al Awami, the Oil Ministry’s director of
measurement, said in a phone interview from Tripoli.  “Tensions over Syria are easing,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in London.
“Fundamentally there is little to justify” current prices.  Brent for November settlement fell as much as $2.97 to
$108.73 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. It was at $109.12 as of 1:04 p.m. local time. The
front-month European benchmark was at a premium of $3.22 to West
Texas Intermediate. The spread widened for a third day on Sept.
13 to $4.57.  WTI for October delivery slid as much as $1.81 to $106.40 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Last week it lost 2.1 percent. The volume of all
futures traded was 45 percent more than the 100-day average.  Libyan Output  Libya’s production has dropped to 250,000 barrels a day,
compared with a capacity of about 1.6 million, Deputy Oil
Minister Omar Shakmak said Sept. 12.  Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  agreed on
a framework in Geneva on Sept. 14 for locating and destroying
Syria’s stockpiles of poison gas. The agreement gives President
Bashar al-Assad’s government one week to submit an inventory of
its toxic weapons and calls for initial inspections by November.  “I see Syria fading as a factor that’s moving oil
markets,” Robin Mills, the head of consulting at Manaar Energy
Consulting and Project Management in Dubai, said by phone
yesterday. “The price had already come off a bit last week when
it became evident there was no attack imminent.”  The diplomatic focus now shifts to  New York , where the
 United Nations  is preparing to release, as early as today, an
inspection team’s report on an Aug. 21 chemical weapons strike
outside Damascus that the U.S. says killed more than 1,400
people.  Delayed Strike  WTI rose to a two-year high on Aug. 28 amid concern that a
U.S.-led assault would widen the conflict and disrupt  Middle
East  exports. Syria borders Iraq and is as near as 150 miles
(240 kilometers) to Iran; its two neighbors together control
almost a fifth of the production capacity in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, Bloomberg estimates show.  The
Middle East accounted for 35 percent of global oil output in the
first quarter, the  International Energy Agency  said.  President  Barack Obama  delayed possible U.S. military
intervention twice: first on Aug. 31 to consult Congress, then
on Sept. 10 to consider  Russia ’s proposal for international
oversight of Syria’s chemical arsenal.  Hedge funds  cut bullish bets on WTI to the least in nine
weeks as the U.S. and Russia cobbled an agreement. Money
managers reduced net-long positions, or wagers that prices will
increase, by 5.2 percent to 290,058 futures and options combined
in the seven days ended Sept. 10, the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s Commitments of Traders report showed on Sept. 13.
That was the lowest level since July 9.  ICE exchange will release similar data for Brent crude at
about midday London time.  Hurricane Ingrid  Hurricane Ingrid was set to make landfall today on Mexico’s
east coast, moving away from the Bay of Campeche where  Petroleos
Mexicanos  has its two largest  oil fields .  The center of Ingrid, the second hurricane of the Atlantic
season, will cross the Mexican coast “later this morning or
early this afternoon” and then begin to weaken, according to
the U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami.  Petroleos Mexicanos, known as Pemex, suspended air and sea
operations at its rigs in the Bay of Campeche, according to a
company statement. The oil ports of Cayo Arcas, which processes
about 68 percent of Mexico’s crude exports, and Dos Bocas were
closed, the Merchant Marine said in its daily weather bulletin.  Oil investors are anticipating that the U.S. Federal
Reserve will begin scaling back economic stimulus, said Ric Spooner, chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “The
initiative will be small,” he said.  The  Federal Open Market Committee , meeting Sept. 17-18,
will probably reduce monthly asset purchases to $75 billion from
$85 billion, according to the median estimate of 34 economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  WTI has technical support along its 30-day middle Bollinger
Band, at about $107 a barrel today, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Front-month futures have halted intraday declines near
this indicator the past four days. Buy orders tend to be
clustered around chart-support levels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  