-- Yudhoyono Names Siregar Indonesia Investment Board Chief
-- B y   A g u s   S u h a n a   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-09-15T04:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-15/yudhoyono-names-siregar-indonesia-investment-board-chief.html
Indonesian President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  named Mahendra Siregar to head the nation’s investment
agency as he seeks to counter slowing economic growth and a
widening current-account deficit.  Siregar, currently deputy finance minister, will replace
Chatib Basri as chairman of the Investment Coordinating Board,
Firmanzah, senior economic affairs official at the presidential
office, said in a mobile-phone text message late yesterday.
Basri was appointed finance minister in May.  Economic expansion slowed in the past four quarters,
falling below 6 percent for the first time since 2010 in the
three months through June.  Bank Indonesia  raised its key
 interest rate  by a quarter of a percentage point to 7.25 percent
on Sept. 12, the highest in four years, as the rupiah fell 16
percent this year.  Consumer prices , which rose 8.79 percent last
month, may reach 9.2 percent by the year-end, Basri said Aug.
28.  “I don’t expect major policy changes,” said David Sumual,
chief economist at PT Bank Central Asia. “If Siregar can
accelerate big investments that are already in the pipeline, it
can send positive signals to the business community, amid a
deficit balance of payment.”  Foreign direct investment in  Indonesia  rose 18.9 percent
from a year earlier to 66.7 trillion rupiah ($5.9 billion) in
the second quarter, the slowest pace since 2010, the board said
in July. Total investment climbed 29.8 percent from a year
earlier to 99.8 trillion rupiah in the three months ended June
30. The nation’s trade deficit widened to a record $2.3 billion
in July, weighing on a current account that remained in
shortfall for a seventh straight quarter in the three months
through June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agus Suhana in Jakarta at 
 asuhana1@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  