-- Abe Adviser Hamada Doubts Japan Economy Showing Real Improvement
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-09-04T09:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/abe-adviser-hamada-doubts-japan-economy-showing-real-improvement.html
Koichi Hamada, an adviser to Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe, said it was too early to know whether
 Japan ’s economy has turned the corner under the economic
policies known as Abenomics.  “Various economic indicators, including investment data,
are picking up, but I’m not sure if they show a meaningful
improvement,” Hamada said at an event today at Bloomberg’s
Tokyo office.  Hamada reiterated that a planned increase of the sales tax
should be postponed or made in smaller steps, saying growth
needs another year or so to reach its potential. Abe will decide
whether to proceed with the move to rein in the world’s largest
debt burden in early October after examining  business confidence 
and revised  growth  data.  The former Yale University professor said it’s questionable
whether Japan needs to go ahead with raising the levy on
consumers given the possibility that it could derail Abe’s
economic agenda.  Capital spending  was  unchanged  from a year earlier in the
second quarter after a 3.9 percent drop in the first three
months of the year, a finance ministry report showed this week.
Business investment by manufacturers fell 9.1 percent in the
April-June period, a third quarter of decline.  Gross domestic product preliminary data showed an
annualized 2.6 percent expansion in the second quarter from the
prior period, a third straight quarterly gain. The expansion in
the world’s third-largest economy has been supported by the Bank
of Japan’s unprecedented easing, and a yen that has weakened 13
percent against the dollar this year.  First Arrow  Hamada said today that monetary policy, the first of Abe’s
so-called three economic arrows, is working well.  He was one of 60 people including business leaders,
economists and consumer advocates who sat on panels last week to
discuss the merits of proceeding with the plan to raise the
 sales tax  to 8 percent in April from the current 5 percent, with
a later bump to 10 percent in October 2015. Most members advised
the government to back the move even as they urged stimulus to
cushion the economic blow.  Postponing the tax increase would have a large and negative
impact on Japan’s financial markets, 22 of 32 economists said in
a Bloomberg News survey.  For Related News and Information:
Abe Seen Facing Stock Rout in Case of Japan Tax Rise Delay
Abenomics Litmus Test Looms as Pressure Mounts on Tax Policy
Abe Gets Ammunition for Sales-Tax Increase With G-20 Set to Meet  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  