-- Addicts Turn Barrels Into $15,000 Chaise at Rehab Clinic
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2013-09-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/addicts-turn-barrels-into-15-000-chaise-at-rehab-clinic.html
After Michael McKeaige got hooked on
heroin and  oxycontin , the  Las Vegas  native tried just about
every program in the area to kick the habit. Nothing worked.  “I even joined the military to get out of Las Vegas,”
said McKeaige, 26, in an interview. He was discharged for bad
conduct from the U.S. Marine Corps. He lost a security-guard job
because of his drug use.  Then his parents heard about the  San Patrignano 
rehabilitation facility in Rimini, Italy, where patients receive
counseling, peer support and training in one of 30 trades.
McKeaige learned how to craft old wine barrels into furniture.  Italian wood designer Maurizio Riva suggested repurposing
wine barrels about two years ago. That sparked the idea of
turning barrels into furniture.  To raise money for the program -- which is known as
Barrique: The Third Life of Wood -- San Patrignano’s leaders
asked well-known designers to create stylish furniture that
facility residents could craft. The resulting pieces have sold
for more than $1,000.  Daniel Libeskind  created a long, curved side table with
amber-colored planks of barrel wood that also can be used as a
bench. Alberto Meda designed a swing with a smooth, elegant
seat. Meda said the movement can evoke a feeling of joy,
euphoria or dizziness similar to those “experienced with one or
two glasses of fine wine.”  Third Life  An exhibition of San Patrignano furniture will be  on
display at the Museum of Design Atlanta  from Sept. 13 to Oct.
11. The objects include a $15,000 chaise longue created by
French designer Marc Sadler, a stool, swings and a “Letizia’s
Cradle,” dedicated to Letizia Moratti, a San Patrignano
ambassador and supporter.  “We wish that 100 percent would get cured,” Moratti,
 Italy ’s former minister of education, university and research,
said in an interview. “What makes it successful is that the
people are in a family environment where they can regain self-esteem, motivation, responsibility and be able to trust
themselves.”  “The addicts who have become more stable help one another,
and the older residents help the younger guys,” said McKeaige,
who is now drug-free. “It just works in a way that doesn’t
exist in the U.S.”  The free program, which has been supported mainly by
donations and has treated more than 25,000 persons since its
founding in 1978, doesn’t stress medication. More than 70
percent of the addicts leave the community drug-free after a 3-year to 4-year residency. Enrollment this year is 1,300.  Online Courses  During his stay at San Patrignano, which is located on
rolling hills near Milan, McKeaige worked on many of the 32
designs in the barrel project’s catalog. He continues to make
furniture on his own time and is taking online courses through
the  College of Southern Nevada . He plans to return to the U.S.
next year to earn a bachelor’s degree in social work.  “I spent two years in the U.S. Marine Corps before I was
discharged for repeated drug use,” McKeaige said. “You’d think
that that experience would have helped me mature. It really
didn’t. San Patrignano helped me more.”  Muse highlights include Jeffrey Burke on Jonathan
Lethem’s new  novel  and  Martin Gayford  on  Europe ’s coming art
season.  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 