-- Madison Square Garden Starts Artist Venture With Azoff
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-09-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/madison-square-garden-starts-artist-venture-with-azoff.html
Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG)  will set
up an artist-management venture with former  Live Nation
Entertainment Inc. (LYV)  Chairman Irving Azoff, agreeing to pay $125
million for half of the new company.  Azoff, 65, will contribute his company and be chairman and
chief executive officer of Azoff MSG Entertainment LLC. Madison
Square Garden, the New York-based owner of concert venues and
the  New York Knicks , is also providing a $50 million  credit
line , the company said in a statement yesterday.  MSG is partnering with Azoff to develop new ways for
artists to make money as the music business derives the majority
of its revenue from digital outlets like  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes and
Spotify Ltd. streaming. In addition to managing artists
including the Eagles and Van Halen, the venture will license
music rights, televise events and produce online publications
and Web TV shows.  “This is essentially a venture capital firm in as much as
it will be investing in startups as well as purchasing already
established entities,”  James Dolan , executive chairman of MSG,
said in an interview. “It is a high-growth vehicle, the kind of
growth a public company of our size couldn’t achieve under our
current configuration.”  MSG fell 0.4 percent to $58.01 in  New York  yesterday. The
stock has gained 31 percent this year.  The venture will have four units: Azoff Music Management,
Global Music Rights, Television Production and Live Event
Branding and Digital Brand Architects, according to the
statement.  Music Publishing  The music-rights business will own a 90 percent interest in
a music publishing operation run by CEO Randy Grimmett that will
acquire, develop and license music for commercial purposes.  Lawrence Randall, former head of programming and
entertainment for the  National Football League , will oversee the
TV business, which will buy, develop and produce live and
televised events.  Azoff MSG Entertainment will hold a 50 percent stake in
Digital Brand Architects and the unit will be overseen by
Allison Statter, the company said. The business includes more
than 70 bloggers and will consult brands on opportunities in
social media.  The new venture will also partner with Brian Schuster,
ACTV8 and United Talent Agency on a interactive live-music
competition show being developed for the Web.  The Forum  “We want to help artists find appropriate ways in these
times to exploit intellectual properties,” Azoff said in an
interview. “It’s far more than a management company.”  Azoff will also advise MSG on managing live-event venues,
including the Forum in Inglewood,  California , according to the
statement. The Forum, acquired by MSG in June, will open in
January with a performance by the Eagles.  Investing in Azoff’s previous businesses has been
profitable for MSG, Dolan said in the statement. MSG was an
investor in Front Line Management Group, which Azoff co-founded
in 2004.  Azoff sold the majority of the artist-management business
to Ticketmaster in 2008 for $123 million. Live Nation, which
bought Ticketmaster in 2010, bought the 25 percent of Front Line
it didn’t already own for $116.2 million in 2011 and Azoff
became chairman of the concert promoter.  ‘Exceptional Growth’  “We are looking forward to exceptional growth,” Dolan
said. “We have a partner and an executive who will run this who
is finally in his career being set loose to pursue all the great
ideas that he has.”  Live Nation said in December when Azoff departed the
company, that a non-competition agreement allows him to manage
certain artists. Azoff’s clients include  Christina Aguilera ,
Fleetwood Mac’s Lindsey Buckingham and Steely Dan, according to
the statement. At the time of his Live Nation departure, Azoff
said he wanted to build a new management company representing
clients in music, sports, fashion and other areas.  MSG is finishing a $1.05 billion overhaul of its namesake
arena in New York that will make shooting video and showing
events online an integral part of the venue, Azoff said.  “We are really looking beyond getting more shows in a
building,” Azoff said. “We are looking at the next generation
of how artists will connect with fans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  