-- Madrid Olympic Chief Says 2020 Win May Foster Lower-Budget Bids
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-09-04T03:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/madrid-olympic-chief-says-2020-win-may-foster-lower-budget-bids.html
The choice of  Madrid  as host of the
2020  Olympic Games  this weekend would signal that even cities
with limited budgets can host sports’ biggest event, according
to the president of the Spanish capital’s bid.  Madrid, bidding to host the Summer Games for the third
straight time, cut planned spending on infrastructure and stadia
by almost a quarter from its failed attempt to secure the 2016
games, according to Bloomberg News calculations. Madrid’s $1.9
billion budget is half of what bookmakers’ favorite Tokyo plans
to spend and almost nine times less than what Istanbul has
pledged. The winning bid will be announced following an
International Olympic Committee vote on Sept. 7 in  Buenos Aires .  The decision “is very important because maybe in the next
bidding cycle there will only be five countries that think they
are capable of delivering the games because of the costs,”
Alejandro Blanco, president of the Spanish Olympic Committee and
Madrid’s bid for the 2020 games, said yesterday in an interview.  Spain , which finished second to 2016 host  Rio de Janeiro  in
the last vote, has been one of the worst victims of the global
economic crisis. The  unemployment rate  has grown to 26 percent
from 18.5 percent since Madrid last bid for the games and the
public sector debt last year increased to 84.2 percent of gross
domestic product, compared with 53.9 percent in 2009, as the
government backstopped municipalities, tax-funded pensions and
jobless-benefit systems.  Rome pulled its bid to host the 2020 games in February 2012
when then-Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said it would be a drain on
public resources. Madrid persevered because 80 percent of the
infrastructure needed to host the event, which attracts more
than 10,000 competitors from 205 nations, is already complete,
according to Blanco.  Public Pressure  Since the start of the slowdown in the global economy in
2008, governments have been under pressure to show what public
money has been spent on, Blanco added. Brazilians took to the
streets in record numbers during soccer’s Confederations Cup in
June to protest and focused some of their anger on the amount of
money being lavished on sporting events. The country is spending
about $15 billion to host next year’s soccer  World Cup , and a
similar amount in public and private investment is going into
the 2016 Olympics.  “If the crisis has taught society anything it’s that we
can’t spend money as we’ve been doing up until now,” Blanco
said. “What we have done is what society has asked us to do.
Once the games are over there won’t be a huge number of
buildings that end up being useless.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  