-- Airbus Wins Delta Order for $5.6 Billion of Jets
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r ,   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-09-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/airbus-wins-delta-order-for-5-6-billion-of-jets.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  Chief Executive
Officer Richard Anderson bypassed the newest jets in favor of 40
older, cheaper models as he refreshes the most-diverse fleet of
any U.S. carrier.  In purchasing 40  Airbus SAS (EAD)  planes from aircraft families
that have been in production for two decades, Anderson probably
got a discount for Delta of “well over 50 percent” off the
$5.6 billion list price, said Richard Aboulafia, vice president
of Fairfax, Virginia-based consultant Teal Group.  “Airbus would have made it worth Delta’s while to sign on
the dotted line,” John Strickland, director of JLS Consulting,
a London-based consultant, said in a phone interview. Atlanta-based Delta and Airbus didn’t release terms.  Delta chose the wide-body Airbus A330-300 and single-aisle
A321 over competitors from  Boeing Co. (BA) , which built the majority
of planes in the airline’s fleet. By keeping a mix of jets at
the world’s second-largest airline, Anderson gets leverage in
negotiations with planemakers that already offer discounts.  Deliveries will start in 2015 on 10 A330-300 jets, a plane
that Delta already flies. The following year, Delta will add the
first of 30 A321s, a model new to its fleet, the company said
today in a statement. It was only Delta’s second Airbus order
ever, the last being 21 years ago.  “Certainly you would think it’s a buyer’s market for those
planes,” said Fred Lowrance, an Avondale Partners LLC analyst
in Nashville,  Tennessee , who rates Delta market outperform.
“Those aren’t the ‘hot’ planes these days.”  Airbus Revisions  The A330 is being supplanted as Airbus’s signature twin-engine wide-body by the A350, which made its first test flight
this year and promises greater range and passenger capacity.
Planes in the A320 family are being fitted with new engines, and
the A321s being ordered by Delta will be arriving after Airbus
begins offering the so-called neo variant.  While Delta may be giving up some of the operating cost
efficiency of newer models, the airline is getting that money
back through a lower purchase price, Lowrance said. Airbus lists
the A330-300 at $239.4 million, and offers the A321 for $107.3
million, according to the company’s  published prices .  “Richard knows our aircraft,” John Leahy, Airbus’s chief
operating officer for customers, said through a spokeswoman.
“For Delta to come back with this first order in over 20 years
illustrates that despite recent history and any previous
arrangements, the best aircraft wins at the end of the day.”  Executives at Delta weren’t available to elaborate on the
fleet purchase, said Anthony Black, a spokesman.  Delta climbed 2.4 percent to $20.31 at the close in New
York, while Boeing gained 1.3 percent to $106.37. Airbus parent
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. rose 0.7 percent to
44.63 euros in Paris.  Delta’s Inheritance  Delta inherited about 160 Airbus planes when it bought
Northwest Airlines Corp. in 2008, and those jets now make up
one-fifth of the fleet for the carrier.  Aboulafia called it one of the “least heterogeneous”
aircraft lineups in the industry. Delta turned that into an
advantage by seeking “bottom-feeder prices, current or end-of-production-life jets, coupled with lots of unloved but perfectly
good used jets,” Aboulafia said.  While some carriers have exclusively bought planes from
just one manufacturer in the belief that it’s more efficient for
maintenance, spare parts, crew training and operational costs,
Delta’s Anderson says a mixed fleet means better deals. Delta
flies wide- and narrow-body models from both Boeing and Airbus,
as well as Boeing’s 747 jumbo jet.  Lower Costs  “We’ve got all the engine types, all the airframe types,
and what it gives you is the flexibility to negotiate and
acquire airplanes at much lower capital costs than your
competitors,” Anderson said in a May interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in New York.  In addition to new jets, Delta has been buying used MD-90s,
made by a company that Boeing acquired, from  China  for about
one-quarter the cost of a new Airbus or Boeing narrow-body,
Anderson said in the interview.  Delta is also leasing 88 used Boeing 717 narrow-bodies from
 Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) , which agreed to cover the $100 million
cost of repainting the planes and refurbishing the interiors to
seal the deal.  “Delta has the advantage of being in the catbird’s seat
now,” said Vicki Bryan, senior bond analyst at Gimme Credit
LLC. “They choose very carefully and deliberatively what deals
they will and will not do and how much they will or will not
pay. It has to be Delta’s way or they don’t have to do it.”  Airbus Comeback  The Delta win is a comeback for Toulouse, France-based
Airbus after the airline chose Boeing in 2011 for an order of
100 737-900ER single-aisle jets. Airbus said many of the A321s
for Delta will be assembled in Mobile,  Alabama , a facility the
company is building to gain a marketing edge with U.S. buyers.  “Buying the last of the current generation at a very good
discount: This is part and parcel of their fleet philosophy,”
Aboulafia said in a telephone interview.  The Delta order is a “vote of confidence” in Airbus’s
A320 and A330 families from the former Northwest executives on
Delta’s management team such as Anderson who knew the planes’
capabilities intimately, Strickland said.  Delta’s purchase also helps Airbus extend the life of the
20-year-old A330 program, which gained momentum in recent years
in part because of Boeing’s delays on the 787 Dreamliner. Airbus
has sought to enhance the performance of the A330, which will
seat 293 passengers in two classes at Delta.  “We’re aware that they’ve selected a different model,”
Tim Bader, a Boeing spokesman, said in a phone interview.
“They’re a very important customer to us, one that’s got more
than 500 Boeing airplanes in their fleet.”  Today’s order shows that “cheap is good” in the eyes of
Delta management, said Robert Mann, who runs aviation consultant
R.W. Mann & Co. in Port Washington, New York.  “The only greater surprise is that they didn’t buy them
used somewhere,” Mann said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in  Chicago  at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  