-- Airlines’ Highest Fuel Expense Boosts Gol Currency Risk
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-09-04T14:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/airlines-highest-fuel-expense-boosts-gol-currency-risk.html
Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA is
spending more on  jet fuel  than any other airline its size in the
Americas, spurring analysts to predict that Brazil’s tumbling
currency will squelch a rebound in the stock.  Fuel accounted for 41 percent of second-quarter operating
expenses, the most among 16 carriers in the region with at least
100 planes, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Air Canada’s 29
percent was the least among peer airlines, and Latam Airlines
SA,  Latin America ’s biggest carrier, was at 34 percent.  Gol is being pinched by a real falling the most in the past
three months among major currencies against the dollar, the
basis for fuel pricing. While Gol rose 16 percent through
yesterday from Aug. 13 after a quarterly loss, analysts have cut
their 12-month price forecasts by 36 percent in the past three
months and 2014 per-share earnings estimates by 57 percent. The
shares dropped 2.2 percent at 11:26 a.m. in  Sao Paulo .  “The currency is now, by far, the main problem for Gol,”
Luis Gustavo Pereira, head strategist at Futura Corretora
brokerage, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “It was
already struggling to boost profitability before the currency
plunge, with sales declining. Things are even worse now.”  The Sao Paulo-based carrier is pushing to increase revenue
in dollar terms by adding international routes and expanding
agreements with airlines to put their booking codes on each
other’s flights. Current partners include  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ,
which owns a 2.8 percent stake in Gol.  Quarterly Losses  Gol reported losses for the last six quarters even as it
announced in June flight cuts of 9 percent, up from a projected
7 percent for 2013, and reduced its workforce to the lowest
level since 2008.  A spokesman for Gol declined to comment on how the real and
fuel bills are affecting the business. Chief Executive Officer
Paulo Kakinoff told reporters in Sao Paulo on Aug. 22 that some
routes may no longer be viable because of increased costs from
the real’s depreciation. Gol also may cut even more capacity
because of the currency swings, Kakinoff said.  “Each route has a different cost structure, and the dollar
has an impact on the operational margins of each in distinct
dimensions,” Kakinoff said.  Gol’s recent rally began after it said a gauge of airline
operating costs excluding fuel would be lower in 2013 than
previously forecast. That helped pare its year-to-date decline
to  33 percent , more than twice the slide for the benchmark
Ibovespa index.  Currency Outlook  At the same time, Gol is reducing its estimates for the
real, saying in an Aug. 12 regulatory  filing  that the currency
would trade in 2013 at an average range of 2.1 to 2.2 reais per
dollar, up from a range of 2.08 to 2.18. The real gained 0.2
percent to 2.3543 per dollar today.  “Over the past few weeks, we have witnessed increasing
concerns with the sustainability of the industry” in  Brazil 
given the currency plunge, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts
including Fernando Abdalla wrote in an Aug. 27 research note.
“It’s all about the  exchange rate ” for Gol, wrote the
analysts, who rate the stock the equivalent of hold.  Jet fuel for immediate delivery in  New York  Harbor closed
5.9 percent lower yesterday than a year earlier, at $3.12 a
gallon.  Even with the second-quarter loss, Gol’s hedging contracts
helped bolster results. Those operations produced a net gain of
43.3 million reais ($18.4 million), according to an Aug. 20
regulatory filing, with 20.9 million reais in losses from fuel
hedging offset by gains of 49.1 million reais in foreign-currency hedges and 15.1 million reais from  interest-rate swaps .  Weakening Real  Brazil’s real has dropped 9.9 percent in the three months
ended yesterday, close to its weakest level since 2009, even
after the central bank announced a plan on Aug. 22 to shore up
the currency by auctioning $1 billion of dollar loans each
Friday and offering $500 million of currency swaps Monday
through Thursday for the rest of the year.  “More critical than the depreciation of the real is the
volatility itself, which makes it hard to plan long-term,”
Kakinoff said. “We don’t know where it will stabilize and what
impact that will have. The appreciation of the dollar has had an
intense effect on our cost structure, and today’s economy means
we can’t pass prices on.”  While fuel costs remain a concern as the real slumps, Gol
could offset higher expenses by continuing to shrink operations,
said Bianca Faiwichow, an analyst at GBM Brasil Dtvm who rates
the company buy,  along with  four other analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Five say hold and two say sell.  More Cuts  “If fuel prices go up more, they can cut even more
capacity,” Faiwichow said in a telephone interview from Sao
Paulo. “It’s better to have more flights than less, but it took
a while for Gol to realize that those flights need to be
profitable. Now, Gol doesn’t have a problem reducing capacity
where needed.”  The retrenchment helped Gol post an 18 percent increase in
July in passenger revenue from each seat flown a kilometer, an
industry benchmark, according to an Aug. 19 regulatory filing.  Pedro Galdi , head strategist at Sao Paulo-based brokerage
SLW Corretora, said Gol can’t count on help from a buyer for all
or part of itself. Brazilian law prohibits a foreign owner from
holding more than a 20 percent stake, though newspaper O Estado
de S. Paulo reported Aug. 30 that the government was considering
raising the ceiling to at least 49 percent.  No Buyout  “A stake sale is something that can’t be ruled out, as Gol
needs something to improve its  capital structure  as soon as
possible, but we can’t count on that happening in the short
term,” Galdi said. “And I don’t see any Brazilian airline
interested in a deal like this one.”  Gol’s high gross debt level of 5.6 billion reais weighs on
profitability, said Galdi, who rates the stock as hold. Total
debt is 1,549 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, the  highest ratio  in the
industry, data from Bloomberg show.  “It’s complicated when a company has so much debt, it ends
up eating into its profits,” Galdi said in a telephone
interview. “The cost of  aviation fuel  is a big problem, and
when on top of that you have a high level of indebtedness, it
makes it very hard to be optimistic about the company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  