-- Malaysia’s Affin Starts Exclusive Talks for Hwang-DBS Assets
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2013-09-04T09:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/malaysia-s-affin-starts-exclusive-talks-to-buy-hwang-dbs-assets.html
Affin Holdings Bhd. (AHB)  was picked ahead
of larger competitor  AMMB Holdings Bhd. (AMM)  to begin exclusive talks
to buy most of Hwang-DBS (Malaysia) Bhd.’s investment banking
assets after the death of its founder.  Affin, Malaysia’s smallest banking group by market value,
plans to acquire all of Hwang-DBS’s investment banking, futures
and fund management interests, according to exchange filings by
both companies in Kuala Lumpur today. The statements didn’t cite
a price, though two people familiar with the matter told
 Bloomberg News  in June that both Affin and AMMB bid about 1
billion ringgit ($304 million).  “The deal will help Affin strengthen its presence in the
capital markets,” said Ang Kok Heng, chief investment officer
at Phillip Capital Management Sdn., where he helps manage $428
million in  Kuala Lumpur . “While Affin won’t have a problem
financing the transaction, fundraising via a rights issue or
bond offering in the future cannot be discounted.”  Malaysia’s smaller banks and brokerages have been merging
to fend off increased foreign competition after the central bank
granted more licenses to lenders including Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd. Last year, K&N Kenanga Holdings
Bhd. acquired the investment banking and broking unit of ECM
Libra Financial Group Bhd., while  RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC)  bought OSK
Holdings Bhd.’s investment bank.  Hwang-DBS jumped 11 percent to close at 4.09 ringgit, the
steepest rise in seven months, after the announcement was made
during the midday trading break. The stock has jumped 56 percent
this year, the  third-best performer  on the Bursa Malaysia
Finance Index.  Affin climbed 1.7 percent to 4.16 ringgit, its biggest gain
since June 28, while AMMB climbed 0.1 percent to 7.44 ringgit.  Singapore-based  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  controls about 28
percent of Hwang-DBS, while Hwang Enterprises owns 26.5 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The company’s founder Hwang Sing Lue died in December last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji in  Hong Kong  at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  