-- Alberta Power Prices Spike as Province Again Urges Conservation
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-09-04T21:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/alberta-power-prices-spike-as-province-again-urges-conservation.html
Alberta ’s electric utility operator
again urged the province’s citizens to conserve electricity as a
combination of unseasonably warm weather and high demand caused
a spike in power prices.  Posted pool prices for Alberta  electricity  spiked to the
maximum C$999.99 (US$952.92) per megawatt hour at 1 p.m. local
time from a low of C$18.70 earlier.  “Our province is currently in a supply shortfall
situation,” Mike Law, the Alberta Electric System Operator’s
vice president of operations said in a release. “We are
utilizing reserves to meet demand requirements while we continue
to provide a reliable electricity system to Albertans.”  Lack of wind for wind power and an outage on the inter-tie
from British Columbia that provides Alberta with its largest
source of imported electricity helped to reduce the supply of
power, AESO said. Meanwhile higher-than-normal temperatures for
this time of year increased demand for air conditioning.  Intra-day prices had spiked to the  maximum  yesterday and on
Aug. 29, when AESO last appealed for a voluntary restriction on
energy use.  Temperatures  in Calgary  in southern Alberta have been
higher than normal over the last few days, reaching a high of 27
degrees Celsius (81 Fahrenheit) today, compared with a seasonal
historical average of 19, according to Environment  Canada .  Demand for power exceeded the operator’s forecasts for most
of the day, with consumption exceeding the estimate by as much
as 134 megawatts during the 1 p.m.-hour local time, according to
AESO  data .  Environment Canada expects maximum temperatures to cool
into the mid-20s tomorrow and low-20s and teens through Saturday
before returning to the mid-20s into next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  