-- Ozil’s Sale Clouds Bale’s Arrival at Real Madrid: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-09-05T09:42:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/man-united-to-bid-again-for-herrera-baines-in-january-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Ozil Anger  Gareth Bale’s arrival at Real Madrid has been overshadowed
by the departure of Mesut Ozil to Arsenal, with the Spanish
club’s senior players lamenting the loss of the German
playmaker, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Cristiano Ronaldo was cited by Diario AS newspaper as
telling Portuguese teammates he was “angry” with the sale of
the player who “best knows his movements on the pitch,” the
Telegraph said.  Sergio Ramos ,  Karim Benzema  and Sami Khedira
also are unhappy about Ozil’s departure, it added.  New Contracts  After signing Ozil for a club-record fee of 42.5 million
pounds ($66.3 million), Arsenal turned its attention to new
contracts for defenders Per Mertesacker and  Bacary Sagna , and
midfielder  Tomas Rosicky , the  Daily Mirror reported .  Mertesacker, who helped persuade Germany teammate Ozil to
make the switch, is in the final two years of his deal, while
Sagna and Rosicky each have one year left, the Mirror added.  No Regrets  Manchester United  has no regrets about not signing Ozil
ahead of Arsenal after being offered the 24-year-old a month
ago, the  Times reported .  United manager  David Moyes  wanted to concentrate on
bringing in a central midfielder and a left-back and decided
that breaking the club’s transfer record for Ozil did not make
sense, the newspaper added.  Better Deal  Everton will offer defender Leighton Baines a contract
extension before the January trade period to try to fend off
interest from Manchester United, the  Guardian reported .  Baines, 28, has two years remaining on his current
agreement and the new deal will have improved terms to reflect
his importance to the team, the Guardian added.  The England left-back can expect a minimum 50 percent raise
on his 50,000 pounds-a-week deal and a three-year extension, the
 Daily Mirror reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  