-- Man Who Saw 0.5% 10-Year Yield Now Predicts 0.25%: Japan Credit
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2013-09-04T04:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/man-who-saw-0-5-10-year-yield-now-predicts-0-25-japan-credit.html
The strategist who predicted  Japan ’s
10-year bond yield would plunge to 0.5 percent now says it’s
likely to reach a record 0.25 percent as a failure to meet
economic targets may cost Prime Minister Shinzo Abe his job.  The benchmark Japanese government bond yield may slide to
that level in the year starting next April from 0.765 percent
today, said  Kazuhiko Sano , the chief bond strategist at Tokai
 Tokyo  Securities Co. When the rate was at 0.85 percent in May
2012, he forecast it would reach 0.5 percent this fiscal year,
presaging its drop to 0.315 percent on April 5.  Japan’s main stock index has jumped 34 percent this year
since Abe came to power on a platform of increased fiscal and
monetary stimulus. Even as investors chased higher-yielding
assets, an unprecedented bond-buying campaign by the  Bank of
Japan  has capped yields at the lowest in the world.  “We’ll be in a low-yield environment next fiscal year
because the economy is bad,” said Tokyo-based Sano, 51, whose
company is one of the 23 primary dealers obliged to bid at
government bond sales. “Once growth slows, approval ratings for
Abe may fall, and it’s possible a change of the administration
will occur, while a failure to meet the inflation target may
call the effectiveness of the BOJ’s quantitative easing into
question.”  Sano, who has been a bond analyst since 1988 and joined
Tokai Tokyo from Citigroup Inc. in 2010, predicts yields will
slide as the BOJ misses its 2 percent inflation target while a
planned April increase in the  sales tax  curtails spending.  Analyst Outsider  That makes him an outsider among JGB analysts, who see the
benchmark yields rising to about 1 percent and holding there
throughout fiscal 2014, according to median estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  “I can’t totally rule out the possibility” that the 10-year yield will touch 0.25 percent, said Shinji Hiramatsu, a
senior investment manager in Tokyo at Sompo Japan Nipponkoa
Asset Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of $9.4
billion. But, he added, “there would be very few incentives for
investors to buy 10-year notes yielding only 0.25 percent.”  Sano said he sees about an even chance that the 10-year
yield will reach 0.25 percent next fiscal year. The level is
about equivalent to what banks pay for  three-month dollar loans 
and what investors get when holding two-year German notes.
Should Japan’s 10-year yield reach that level by March 2015, the
end of fiscal 2014, investors who bought the securities
yesterday would get a 5.1 percent return, Bloomberg data show.  Economic Prospects  “It’s unimaginable that Japan’s economy will continue to
grow amid a declining population and a weakening aspiration
among individuals for higher income,” Sano said.  Japan’s population decreased 0.21 percent to 126.4 million
as of the end of March from a year earlier, the fourth year of
drops, according to a government survey released last month. The
nation’s economy will probably grow 1.5 percent in 2014 after
expanding 1.9 percent this year, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  A 2.2 trillion yen ($22 billion) sale of 10-year bond sales
yesterday drew bids valued at 3.5 times the amount available,
compared with an average of 3.25 for the preceding 10 auctions,
Ministry of Finance data shows.  The median estimate of 10 analysts polled by Bloomberg
shows the 10-year yield may rise to 1.03 percent in the quarter
ending March 2015. Itochu Corp.’s Yoshimasa Maruyama is the most
bearish on JGBs among those forecasters, expecting the yield to
reach 2 percent, a level unseen for seven years.  Deflation Exit  “That’s a reasonable level when Japan emerges from
deflation,” said Maruyama, the Tokyo-based chief economist at
Itochu. “Reaching 2 percent inflation within two years would be
difficult, but I do think the CPI will rise to around 1 percent
stably,” he said, referring to the  consumer price index .  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Mitsubishi Corp. sold
30 billion yen of 15-year, 1.485 percent bonds, according to a
statement yesterday from Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co. The nation’s largest trading house last sold 10-year debt paying 1.022 percent in May 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Japanese corporate notes have handed investors a 0.16
percent gain since the end of July, compared with a 0.26 percent
return on sovereign securities, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. Company bonds worldwide lost 0.89
percent during the period.  Rising Prices  Nationwide  consumer prices  excluding fresh food, a policy
target for the BOJ, climbed 0.7 percent in July from a year
earlier, the biggest gain since November 2008 and compared with
the average of a 0.3 percent monthly decline in the previous
five years. The core CPI gauge will probably advance 1.3 percent
next fiscal year, excluding the effects of a planned sales-tax
increase, BOJ board members  forecast  in July.  Japan is due to raise the nation’s 5 percent sales tax to 8
percent in April and to 10 percent in October 2015 to curb the
world’s heaviest debt load. Economy Minister Akira Amari said
yesterday Abe will decide whether to go ahead with the plan
after the Oct. 1 release of the BOJ’s quarterly Tankan survey of
business confidence.  “While the government is likely to roll out various
stimulus measures to sustain growth into 2014, the economy will
deteriorate significantly in the second half as the sales tax
and fiscal tightening weigh on growth,” said  Takuji Okubo , the
chief economist at Japan Macro Advisors in Tokyo. He agrees with
Tokai’s Sano that benchmark yields are more likely to fall.  Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party  took control of both
chambers of parliament on July 21 with its victory in upper-house elections. His cabinet’s approval rating rose to 68
percent last month from 63 percent in July, according to a
Nikkei newspaper poll conducted on Aug. 23-25.  Abe ‘Tailwind’  Public support for Abe’s administration is a “tailwind”
for the planned tax hike, said Shuntaro Take, the deputy general
manager for corporate accounting and investment at Tokio Marine
& Nichido Life Insurance Co., which manages about $39 billion in
Tokyo. “A failure to raise the sales tax would elicit a
substantial negative response from the JGB market amid concern
about Japan’s finances.”  Finance Minister Taro Aso has said the nation’s mid-term
fiscal plan will be submitted at a meeting of Group of 20
nations in  St. Petersburg   this week . Japan’s debt will grow to
245 percent of its economic output this year, the highest ratio
globally, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Economic Recovery  Japan’s economic recovery is strong enough to weather an
increase in the sales levy, former Ministry of Finance official
Eisuke Sakakibara said in an interview yesterday. He expects
economic growth of 2 percent or more both this year and next.  Postponing an increase in the tax would have a large and
negative impact on Japan’s financial markets, said 22 of 32
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The yen has slumped 13 percent against the dollar this year
as the BOJ pumped more than 7 trillion yen into the economy
through monthly bond purchases. The Topix index of Japanese
shares rose 0.3 percent as of 1:42 p.m., after jumping 2.8
percent yesterday, the most since Aug. 2.  “Market participants basically don’t believe that the BOJ
will achieve its inflation target, but they still make bets
based on expectations of its success,” said Sano. “Once this
assumption collapses, each financial market will reverse its
direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  