-- Angola Advised to Cut Oil-Block Size to Generate More Tax
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d   a n d   M a n u e l   S o q u e
-- 2013-09-04T10:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/angola-advised-to-cut-oil-block-size-to-generate-more-tax.html
Angola ’s former Petroleum Minister
Albina Faria de Assis Pereira Africano urged the nation to study
cutting the size of oil blocks to generate more tax revenue.  The country should also bring in an oil supervisory body
that doesn’t operate fields itself, according to Africano, who
was the first chairman of state oil company Sonangol in 1991 to
1992 and now advises President Jose Eduardo dos Santos. Her
recommendations were detailed in a book published yesterday.  The southwest African country is looking to boost revenue
from its oil resources, which have made it the biggest crude
producer on the continent behind Nigeria. Reducing block sizes
would add concessions, potentially luring more explorers to the
nation’s waters, where  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  already operate.  The Ministry of Petroleum’s inspectorate should oversee oil
exploration as it’s not an operator and can best supervise the
implementation of technical, environmental and economic rules,
Africano said. Sonangol currently monitors the concessions.  Angola has about 50 offshore oil blocks, each spanning
5,000 square kilometers (1,930 square miles), and plans to
auction 15 onshore areas in 2013. By contrast, blocks in Norway,
western Europe’s biggest oil producer, are a 10th of the size.  Africano also urged Angola to use its $5 billion sovereign
wealth fund to diversify the $114 billion economy away from non-renewable resources such as oil and diamonds. The fund should
target agriculture and livestock, manufacturing, trade and
services, she said in her book, “Sustainable Management of
Angolan Oil, A Comparative Study of Angola and  Norway .”  The country pumps about 1.8 million barrels a day offshore
and aims to produce 2 million a day by 2017. While crude makes
up 97 percent of its exports and 80 percent of tax revenue, the
oil industry only employs about 1 percent of the population,
estimated at 21 million by the World Bank. Most people live on
less than $2 a day, United Nations data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Soque in Luanda at 
 msoque@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  