-- Larsen Pushes for Water Projects as Sales Growth Slows
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-09-05T04:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/larsen-pushes-for-water-projects-as-sales-growth-slows.html
Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , India’s
biggest engineering company, is pushing to win more water
projects after  sales grew  at the slowest pace in 14 quarters.  The  company  is getting enquiries for water supply and
wastewater treatment, and expects the business to expand at
least 20 percent annually, S.N. Subrahmanyan, head of the
infrastructure and construction division at Larsen, said in an
interview. It will also look for setting up desalination
projects in the  Middle East , he said.  Chairman A.M. Naik, who in July said the volatility in the
rupee and uncertainty in financial markets is affecting
investment sentiment, is turning to municipal bodies in towns
such as  Cuddalore  in the southern state of  Tamil Nadu  for
orders. India is doubling spending on water management as
inadequate clean water threatens to stunt growth in industrial
and farm output.  “As of date, our specific focus for this particular sector
is government, which is the essential provider of water,”
Subrahmanyan said by telephone on Sept. 2. “As population grows
and per capita demand for water grows, water will become a more
serious matter.”  The federal and state governments have set aside 1.1
trillion rupees ($16 billion) for sewage treatment, irrigation
and recycling for the five-year period ending March 2017,
according to the ministry of water resources in April.  Larsen, based in Mumbai, in August won orders worth 11.4
billion rupees from municipalities and water boards, the company
said in a statement to the stock exchange.  Stalled Projects  The increased focus on water projects comes amid the
slowest pace of  economic growth  in India since 2003. The gross
domestic product expanded 5 percent in the year to March 31, and
the rupee touched a record low of 68.845 a dollar on Aug. 28.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , who this year set up a panel
to speed infrastructure projects such as utilities and highways,
in his Independence Day speech on Aug. 15 said steps are being
taken to remove hurdles in the way of stalled projects.  There were 32 national highway projects that had not yet
tied up funds, Sarvey Sathyanarayana, junior minister for road
transport and highways, told parliament on Aug. 12.  Growth Pockets  Decisions on essential services such as those related to
water are usually not delayed, said Dhananjay Mishra, an analyst
at Sushil Finance Consultants Ltd. in Mumbai.  “Some departments have the financial autonomy to take
decisions without waiting for any approvals,” Mishra said. “So
if you’re looking in the right place, there are opportunities to
be found despite the slowdown.”  India ’s urban population of about 360 million people need
almost 50 billion liters of municipal water every day, according
to a May  report  by the Central Pollution Control Board. That
daily requirement will more than double to 110 billion liters by
2050 as the number of people living in the nation’s towns and
cities rises to exceed 800 million, it said.  About 38,000 million liters per day of wastewater is
generated in urban centers with population exceeding 50,000 and
municipal treatment capacity is about 29 percent of wastewater
generated, according to the report. That is estimated to exceed
100,000 million liters a day by 2050.  Orders Traction  Larsen’s construction unit accounted for about half its
revenue, with water projects contributing 10 percent of the
division’s business, according to Subrahmanyan.  “This is one of the fastest growing verticals within the
construction space,” he said. “We are seeing a traction of
orders.”  The company got 251.6 billion rupees of fresh orders in the
quarter ended June 30, compared with 279.3 billion rupees of new
contracts in the three months ended March.  “These kind of projects alone can’t prop up their order
book,” Paras Bothra, vice president for equity research at
Ashika Stock Broking Ltd. in Kolkata, said referring to Larsen’s
push for water and sanitation contracts. “Capital expenditure
has dried up considerably.”  Larsen’s first-quarter  net income  fell 13 percent, missing
analysts’ estimates. Sales in the three months ended June from
building  power plants  and networks declined 44 percent from a
year earlier because of lower order book, the company said.  Shares of Larsen  rose  4 percent, poised for the biggest
gain since June 28, to 727 rupees as of 9:30 a.m. in Mumbai
trading. The shares have lost 32 percent this year, compared
with a 2 percent decline in the S&P BSE Sensex.  New Leadership  Larsen, which is currently building a wastewater treatment
plant in Doha, is looking for a new leadership team to drive
sales in the Middle East, Subrahmanyan said.  “We have still not tapped the potential in the Middle East
where water is a perennial requirement,” said Subrahmanyan.
“If we are able to get our leadership and structure right, we
will see a fair amount of traction in the Middle East also.”  The company is evaluating what the plunge in the rupee
against the  U.S. dollar  means for it, Subrahmanyan said. The
Indian currency has declined 18 percent against the dollar this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Such drastic increases anywhere leads to more pain than
gain,” said Subrahmanyan. “Bulk of contracts are with recourse
to clients.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  