-- Asmussen Says ECB Stress Tests Last Chance for Confidence
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-09-04T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/asmussen-says-ecb-stress-tests-last-chance-for-confidence.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Joerg Asmussen said upcoming stress tests for banks
under a new supervisory system will be the final opportunity to
restore confidence in the region’s financial system.  “Two stress tests so far haven’t, for various reasons, led
to trust returning to the European banking sector,” Asmussen
said in  Frankfurt  today. “This will be our third and last
chance.”  European lenders have had to undergo two stress tests since
2010, with eight banks failing the last round conducted by the
European Banking Authority in 2011 with a combined capital
shortfall of 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion). ECB officials
have said the central bank should’t take over supervising
lenders before bad loans on balance sheets across the region are
dealt with.  “A European banking union is the precondition for a real,
integrated European financial market,” Asmussen said. “For us
as the central bank, that is very important. Only that way can
our monetary-policy signals gain traction everywhere in the euro
area.”  Capital Gaps  Asmussen said that governments in the region must decide
how to fill holes in bank capital before the central bank starts
a series of investigations that may identify gaps.  “The point of the exercise is to look the whole truth in
the eye,” Asmussen said. “For that reason we need such
assurances before we even begin the exercise.”  European Union leaders said in June that their plan to
forge a banking union remains on track, even as they toned down
promises to support ailing lenders before supervision starts. At
a summit in Brussels, leaders committed to make “all
appropriate arrangements, including the establishment of
national backstops,” whereas earlier “comprehensive plans and
credible backstops” had been promised.  “Banks should recapitalize themselves in the markets,”
Asmussen said. “For cases where this doesn’t work, a safety net
is necessary. There, the individual member states should be
asked first, ensuring that banking union isn’t simply a transfer
union through the back door.”  The ECB board member argued that once the second pillar of
banking union is established -- a central mechanism to wind down
or restructure ailing banks -- the central bank should be the
authority that decides when a bank is no longer viable.  “In my opinion, the decision should solely be taken by the
bank supervisors, so in future the ECB,” he said, commenting on
a draft proposal on bank resolution presented by the European
Commission. “In that way, decisions can be taken quickly, in a
coordinated way and without unnecessary bureaucratic
wrangling.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  