-- Otsuka Holdings Says It Hasn’t Yet Decided to Buy Astex
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   M a r c o   L u i
-- 2013-09-05T01:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/astex-rises-on-report-of-acquisition-plans-by-ostuka.html
Otsuka Holdings Co. (4578) , the maker of
the mood-stabilizing drug Abilify, said it hasn’t yet decided to
buy  Astex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ASTX) , responding to a Nikkei report
that it intends to pay 90 billion yen ($900 million) for the
U.S. biotechnology company.  Otsuka isn’t the source of yesterday’s newspaper report,
the company said today in a statement to the Tokyo Stock
Exchange. It will make an announcement once a decision is made.
Astex surged 24 percent to a nine-year high of $8.27 at the
close in New York yesterday, valuing the Dublin, California-based company at $785 million.  Otsuka, which also makes Pocari Sweat drinks and Soyjoy
nutrition bars, wants to buy Astex to increase its stable of
cancer drugs, the Nikkei report said. With one leukemia drug on
the market and other treatments under development, Astex may
command a higher price or attract other bidders, said Gene Mack,
a Brean Capital LLC analyst based in New York.  “If it’s for real, I think the offer is too low,” Mack
said in a telephone interview. “Any oncology company would look
at it as a target.”  Otsuka  fell  as much as 0.4 percent to 2,970 yen in Tokyo
trading, and traded down 0.2 percent at 2,974 yen as of 9:56
a.m. The shares have advanced 22 percent this year, lagging
behind the 35 percent increase of the benchmark  Topix index .  Astex’s SGI-110, an experimental treatment for acute
myeloid leukemia, had positive results in a mid-stage clinical
trial, the company said in an Aug. 28 statement. It has one
marketed product, Dacogen, a leukemia drug licensed for sale by
Eisai Co. and a unit of Johnson & Johnson.  Timothy Enns, a spokesman for Astex, didn’t respond to an
e-mail and telephone call seeking comment on the report.  Abilify is one of the world’s best-selling schizophrenia
treatments. Otsuka has been searching for new products before
2015, when its patent on Abilify expires.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Lui in Tokyo at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  