-- Bank of Canada Keeps Its Benchmark Interest Rate at 1% (Text)
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-09-04T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/bank-of-canada-keeps-its-benchmark-interest-rate-at-1-text-.html
Following is the text accompanying
the  Bank of Canada ’s decision to leave its benchmark overnight
rate target at 1 percent. The statement was released today in
Ottawa.  The Bank of  Canada  today announced that it is maintaining
its target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. The  Bank Rate  is
correspondingly 1 1/4 per cent and the deposit rate is 3/4 per
cent.  The global economy continues to expand broadly as expected,
but its dynamic has moderated. In the  United States , the process
of normalization of long-term  interest rates  has begun in the
context of stronger private domestic demand. Recent data,
however, point to slightly less momentum overall than
anticipated. In  Europe , there are early signs of a recovery, and
Japan’s situation remains promising. In a number of emerging
market economies, financial volatility has increased, adding
uncertainty to growth prospects, although China continues to grow
at a solid pace. Commodity prices have been relatively stable,
with geopolitical stresses putting some upward pressure on global
 oil prices .  Uncertain global economic conditions appear to be delaying
the anticipated rotation of demand in Canada towards exports and
investment. While the housing sector has been slightly stronger
than anticipated, household credit growth has continued to slow
and mortgage interest rates are higher, pointing to a continued
constructive evolution of household imbalances. Looking through
the choppiness of the recent data, the level of Canada’s GDP is
largely consistent with the Bank’s July forecast. The output gap
is expected to begin to narrow in 2014.  Inflation in Canada remains subdued. With inflation
expectations well-anchored, both core and total CPI inflation are
expected to return slowly to 2 per cent as the output gap closes.  Against this backdrop, the Bank has decided to maintain the
target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. As long as there is
significant slack in the Canadian economy, the inflation outlook
remains muted, and imbalances in the household sector continue to
evolve constructively, the considerable monetary policy stimulus
currently in place will remain appropriate. Over time, as the
normalization of these conditions unfolds, a gradual
normalization of policy interest rates can also be expected,
consistent with achieving the 2 per cent inflation target.  Information note: The next scheduled date for announcing the
overnight rate target is 23 October 2013. The next full update of
the Bank’s outlook for the economy and inflation, including risks
to the projection, will be published in the MPR at the same time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  