-- Barnes & Noble Wins Dismissal of PIN Code Skimming Suit
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-09-04T19:39:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/barnes-noble-wins-dismissal-of-pin-code-skimming-suit.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , the biggest
U.S. bookstore chain, won the dismissal of a suit over the
“skimming” of customers’ PIN codes from credit-card readers at
stores in New York,  California  and seven other states.  The New York-based retailer last year announced that card
readers in 63 stores had been tampered with in a bid to steal
credit- and debit-card data including the personal information
numbers punched in by customers paying for purchases.  Merely having shopped at one of the affected stores isn’t
enough to make a customer eligible to pursue a federal case,
U.S. District Judge John W. Darrah in Chicago ruled in a
decision dated yesterday and posted today.  “There is no actual injury pled because there are no facts
to support the allegations that the information was disclosed,”
Darrah said.  The company waited six weeks before making the incursion
public, Elizabeth Nowack said in a consumer complaint filed in
federal court in  Chicago  on Oct. 27.  Her case was later consolidated with three similar suits
seeking class-action -- or group -- status on behalf of anyone
who made a purchase at Barnes & Noble stores including those in
San Diego, Miami; Chicago; Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts;
Clifton,  New Jersey ; New York City; Pittsburgh; Stamford,
Connecticut; and Warwick, Rhode Island, between November 2010
and Sept. 14, 2012.  Purloined Information  Purloined personal identifying information has a black-market value of $1.50 to $90 a card number, according to the
consolidated complaint.  Darrah disagreed that the need to mitigate potential
 identity theft  was itself a form of injury to consumers, and
said they couldn’t make themselves eligible to sue by incurring
costs for “non-imminent” harm.  The consumer’s lead lawyers, Ben Barnow and Joseph Siprut,
didn’t immediately reply to phone messages seeking comment on
the court’s ruling.  Mary Ellen Keating , a spokeswoman for Barnes
& Noble, didn’t immediately reply to a voice-mail message
seeking comment.  The case is In re Barnes & Noble PIN Pad Litigation, 12-cv-08617, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  