-- Batista Party Boat Departs Rio as Olympic City Loses Patron
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-09-04T20:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/batista-party-boat-departs-rio-as-olympic-city-loses-patron.html
The Pink Fleet party boat owned by
 Eike Batista  has left Rio de Janeiro’s central marina as the
former billionaire unloads luxury assets and retreats from
projects in the city after his highly publicized difficulties.  The oil and mining magnate bought the Pink Fleet ship in
2007 and overhauled it to run tours and host parties in
Guanabara Bay, home to Rio’s iconic Sugarloaf mountain. The
vessel stopped booking tours in January, left the Marina da
Gloria in July and now is docked at a distant shipyard. A ship
broker familiar with Batista’s efforts to find a buyer said his
EBX Group Co. has considered selling it for scrap to avoid
tourism licensing fees.  The ship, registered as Spirit of  Brazil  VII, underscores
how Batista’s decline has hobbled the city’s most visible patron
a year before it hosts the soccer  World Cup  and three years
before the  Olympic Games . Batista, whose wealth plummeted by
more than $30 billion since early 2012, intended to invest about
800 million reais ($339 million) in Rio projects, according to a
 video  published by EBX in 2012. Now he has scaled back efforts
to refurbish a landmark hotel and improve security in the slums.  The 54-meter (177-foot)  Pink Fleet , bearing the sunburst
logo inspired by the Inca symbol of wealth and optimism that
Batista uses as his corporate logo, is now anchored at the
Cassinu shipyard in Sao Goncalo, across the bay from the marina
where the wealthy dock their yachts.  Jet Sale  Batista tried to sell the vessel to eliminate the 300,000
reais he was spending in monthly maintenance fees, O Estado de
 Sao Paulo  newspaper reported this week. The objective now is to
break the ship apart and sell its pieces, the newspaper said,
without saying how it got the information.  Batista invested 35 million reais to buy and refurbish the
ship, newspaper Jornal do Brasil reported in 2008. It’s worth
about $2.5 million on the international market and much less as
scrap, said the ship broker, who asked not to be named because
EBX requested the information remain confidential.  The EBX press office in Rio declined to comment on the
status of the ship in an e-mailed statement.  In May, Batista put his Embraer Legacy 600 jet up for sale
on aviation publication Controller. The model has a list price
of $26 million, according to  Embraer SA. (EMBR3)  Veja magazine reported
that the plane was sold in July to  Bank of America Corp. , which
then leased it. Batista also sold an Embraer Phenom 300 plane
and a helicopter, columnist Ancelmo Gois reported on July 24 in
Rio-based newspaper  O Globo .  The EBX press office declined to comment on the sales in an
e-mailed statement.  Repay Debts  Batista, who routinely appeared at business conferences in
Brazil and abroad during his rise in global wealth rankings, has
withdrawn from public view this year. On July 19 he broke his
silence by publishing an opinion piece in newspaper  Valor
Economico  in which he promised to pay back his debts and said
auditors were partly to blame for building up shareholder
expectations.  Batista has also shut down philanthropic efforts and
business projects in Rio. EBX concluded in December 2012 its
participation in a project to clean up Rio’s scenic lagoon in
partnership with the city and state governments after spending
23 million reais since 2008, the company press office wrote in
an e-mailed response to questions. OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA, Batista’s oil company, last month halted the
20 million reais annual contribution it has made since 2010 to
aid the pacification process in the city’s hillside slums.  OGX Shares  OGX  fell  2.4 percent to 41 centavos at the close in Sao
Paulo today. The stock is down 91 percent this year after
missing output targets and announcing plans to abandon projects
it had previously declared commercial. Batista sold 177.2
million shares, or 5.49 percent of OGX, between Aug. 29 and
yesterday, the company said in a regulatory filing today.  After working for years to renovate the landmark  Hotel
Gloria , where  Albert Einstein  completed his theory of photons in
1925, Batista has agreed to sell the property to Switzerland-based investment fund Acron AG for 225 million reais, Veja
reported Aug. 31. Acron declined to comment in an e-mail.
Batista’s real-estate unit REX, which controls the hotel
project, also declined to comment in an Aug. 31 e-mail
statement.  Rio ‘Soldier’  “I am a soldier of Rio de Janeiro and will continue being
a soldier,”  Batista said  during a March 2011 speech. “I don’t
need a house in Cote d’Azur, I don’t need a flat in  New York ;
here everything is much better.”  The plunge in Batista’s wealth began about a year later,
when OGX reported oil production below its announced targets,
hurting his ability to go ahead with their port, shipbuilding
and mining projects. Since then, he has practically dropped out
of the domestic and international conference circuit.  Batista, who in 2011 said he would surpass  Carlos Slim  and
 Bill Gates  to become the world’s richest man, often spoke of his
plans to modernize and beautify Rio while he harnessed Brazil’s
natural resources to amass wealth. In front of the Hotel Gloria,
he intended to revamp the marina where soap opera stars and
politicians partied on the Pink Fleet. The REX division was
created in 2008 to invest in real estate and urban development.
He also invested in the city’s biggest music festival, Rock in
Rio, and sponsored a volleyball team.  “It’s a pity that this cycle of difficulties has
occurred,” Julio Bueno, Rio state’s economic secretary, said in
a July 15 interview. “Very important investments from the Grupo
X have been contemplated in Rio.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  