-- Berlusconi Allies Clash With Letta’s Party on Senate Ouster Push
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-09-04T15:57:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/berlusconi-impeachment-push-helps-to-drive-italian-stocks-lower.html
Silvio Berlusconi’s allies clashed
with their partners in  Italy ’s governing coalition over the push
to expel the three-time prime minister from the Senate. Italian
stocks fell amid concern the turmoil could upset the government.  The ruling coalition failed to find common ground on a
timetable for proceedings against Berlusconi, according to Mario
Michele Giarrusso, a senator for the opposition who participated
today in a closed-door meeting of 10 lawmakers called to set the
agenda. While the process is scheduled to start on Sept. 9 in
Rome, further meetings haven’t been placed on the calendar,
Giarrusso told reporters.  Tension between the two biggest parties in Prime Minister
Enrico Letta’s alliance threatens to topple the four-month-old
administration. The two sides are divided about whether
Berlusconi, who lost the final appeal of a tax-fraud conviction
last month, deserves to be ousted from parliament. Senator
Altero Matteoli, a Berlusconi ally, said today the government
will fall if the expulsion is carried out, the Ansa news agency
reported.  “He’s cornered now,” Federico Santi, an analyst with
Eurasia Group, said of Berlusconi in an interview. Bringing down
the government “would be a desperate move, last-ditch
retaliation.”  The benchmark FTSE MIB slipped 1.3 percent to 16725.50 at
5:19 p.m. in Milan, compared with a gain of 0.2 percent in the
broader Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Italian 10-year bond yields rose
7 basis points to 4.42 percent.  Services Shrink  The impact on markets was exacerbated by a  report  today
showing the Italian services sector shrank last month more than
economists had forecast. A services index, based on a survey of
 purchasing managers , rose to 48.8 from 48.7 in July, Markit
Economics said. Economists in a  Bloomberg News survey  predicted
an increase to 49.9.  The process against Berlusconi starts with the Sept. 9
meeting of the Senate’s parliamentary immunities committee,
which will debate over multiple days about whether to put the
matter before the upper house’s full chamber. Representatives of
Letta’s Democratic Party pushed to schedule the second committee
meeting on Sept. 10, while Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party
sought more time, said Giarrusso of the Five Star Movement.  The second meeting will be set at the end of the Sept. 9
appointment, Senator Dario Stefano, chairman of the committee
said today in a televised interview with SkyTG24.  Expulsion Required  Berlusconi, 76, is pushing Letta, 47, to persuade the
coalition to oppose the impeachment. Lawmakers in the  Democratic
Party , the biggest force in parliament, have said expulsion is
required under a 2012 anti-corruption law.  “The committee can’t operate under political pressure,”
Senator Stefania Pezzopane, a Democratic Party member and vice
chairman of the committee, told reporters in Rome today. “The
committee must simply, honestly and seriously make sure that the
law of the land is applied.”  People of Liberty, the second-biggest party in Letta’s
alliance, claims the law is unconstitutional and shouldn’t be
applied to the former premier, whose tax-fraud conviction dates
to events in 2002 and 2003. The party is pushing for a
Constitutional Court ruling on the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  