-- BHP Faces Challenging Coking Coal Market on Demand, Oversupply
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-09-04T04:54:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/bhp-faces-challenging-coking-coal-market-on-demand-oversupply.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest exporter of coking coal, said the market for the fuel
used to make steel remains “challenging” because of muted
demand in some markets and oversupply from rivals.  “The near-term will be challenging,” Dean Dalla Valle,
president of Melbourne-based BHP’s coal business, said at the
opening of the $1.4 billion Daunia mine in Queensland. “We’re
seeing lower prices as a result of subdued demand in some
traditional markets and strong supply from some competitors.”  Prices are under pressure because of rising supply after a
recovery from flood-affected mines in Queensland, and a slowdown
in steel demand growth. Falling coal prices and high costs have
prompted Australian producers including BHP to shutter
operations and cut staff. Prices are expected to bottom this
year, according to analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  Coking coal prices for the third quarter settled at $145 a
metric ton, according to Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd., down from $172 during the three months to June 30 and the
lowest since 2009 when prices were agreed annually.  The metallurgical coal business, which BHP describes as one
of its “four pillars” alongside iron ore and petroleum, has
returned to profitability, Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Mackenzie  said last month after flooding and industrial action
affected the business.  Sale Canceled  BHP, spending $5.3 billion on its Australian coal business
to expand mines and port facilities, in July canceled the sale
of the Gregory Crinum mine in Queensland after making
operational improvements. Growth projects in Queensland will
boost total coking coal capacity production to 66 million metric
tons annually, Mackenzie said Aug. 20.  “We’ll still see a good long-term demand trend for
metallurgical coal,” Dalla Valle said.  In Queensland, BHP operates seven mines in the Bowen Basin
through the 50-50 BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance, as well as
two operations through the BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal partnership,
where the company holds an 80 percent stake. The company’s
Daunia mine will have an annual export capacity of 4.5 million
tons of coking coal.  BHP last month reported a decline in profit, joining Rio
Tinto Group and Vale SA, as slowing economic growth saps demand
for raw materials, dragging down prices. Mackenzie cut  capital
spending  this fiscal year as investors including BlackRock Inc.
pressure mining companies to defer expansions and acquisitions.  Peabody Energy Corp. in July said it would cut 400
positions at its Australian coal mines to reduce costs and boost
competitiveness. BHP shut the Gregory mine in Queensland last
year, while Anglo American placed its Aquila operation on care
and maintenance next month because of the outlook for prices.  With a majority of BHP’s 18 major projects nearing
completion, capital spending is set to fall to $16.2 billion for
fiscal 2014, the company said last month. That compares with
expenditure on new projects and expansions of $21.2 billion the
previous year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  