-- Billionaire Packer Buys Zillow Stake as Housing Rebounds
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-09-04T07:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/billionaire-packer-buys-zillow-stake-as-housing-rebounds.html
Australian billionaire James Packer
bought 9.4 percent of  Zillow Inc. , becoming the second-biggest
shareholder in the U.S. real-estate website, after housing
starts in the country rose to a five-year high.  Cavalane Holdings Pty bought about 3 million shares,
Seattle-based Zillow said in a filing, without giving financial
terms. The stake is valued at $298 million based on Zillow’s
last closing price. Cavalane, controlled by Packer, is Zillow’s
largest  shareholder  after Caledonia Private Investments Pty,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Packer, who has a net worth of $6.1 billion according to
the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, is betting on improving demand
in U.S. housing. Confidence among U.S. homebuilders climbed in
August to the highest level since 2005 and  housing starts  in
March broke above 1 million for the first time since 2008.  “He obviously thinks it’s the right time to be getting
into that business,” Alice Bennett, an analyst at  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia  in Sydney, said by phone. Packer “trades
these stocks around where he sees value. He’s been in and out of
Seek twice,” she said, referring to  Seek Ltd. , a Melbourne-based job advertisements website.  Zillow rose 2.7 percent to $99.09 yesterday. The stock has
more than tripled this year, after advancing 23 percent in 2012.  Rich Valuation  The company operates the largest U.S. real-estate website
with  61 million unique users  in July. It is the most richly
valued among 33 real-estate services businesses worldwide that
have analyst estimates tracked by Bloomberg.  Its enterprise value of $3.72 billion is about 106 times
forecast earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization over the next 12 months, the data show.  Trulia
Inc. (TRLA) , the second-most popular real estate website according to
Experian Hitwise data quoted at  marketingcharts.com , has the
next highest valuation with a multiple of 54.  Packer and Mark Arbib, a spokesman for his family company
Consolidated Press Holdings Ltd., didn’t reply to an e-mail
seeking comment.  Demand for new homes is supporting the U.S. housing market
amid rising mortgage rates, while existing home sales hit a
monthly rate of 5.39 million in July, their highest level since
November 2009.  “The real-estate market is very hot,” Zillow Chief
Executive Officer Spencer Rascoff said on Bloomberg’s
“Surveillance” program on Aug. 20. “The market is back and
the parts of the country that have bounced back the most were
the ones that were in the doldrums.”  StreetEasy Purchase  Zillow said the same day that it would sell 5.02 million
shares at $82 each to raise $412 million after spending $50
million buying StreetEasy, which provides sale and rental
listings in New York.  The Zillow stake is Packer’s most valuable investment after
the 50 percent share his family company Consolidated Press has
in  Crown Ltd. (CWN) , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Crown owns hotels and gambling complexes in the Australian
cities of Melbourne and Perth, and 34 percent of  Melco Crown
Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , owner of Macau’s City of Dreams casino.  In August, Packer sold about A$261 million ($238 million)
of shares in jobs website Seek and fund manager  Magellan
Financial Group Ltd. (MFG)  that were held by Cavalane, the vehicle he
used in 2010 to buy into broadcaster  Ten Network Holdings Ltd. (TEN)   Cavalane, with a registered office at Consolidated Press’s
address at 54 Park Street, Sydney, had A$272 million in net
assets at 30 June, 2012, according to accounts filed with
 Australia ’s corporate regulator. It’s wholly owned by
Consolidated Press International Holdings Ltd., registered in
the Bahamas, the accounts show.  Consolidated Press also has a 25 percent stake in
investment manager Ellerston Capital Ltd., which has about $1
billion in investments, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Those include a 6.1 percent stake in  Treasury Wine Estates Ltd. (TWE) ,
the world’s second-largest listed wine company; a 5.6 percent
share in cement company Boral Ltd.; and 6.8 percent of slot
machine maker Aristocrat Leisure Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  