-- Blackstone Adds Former AvalonBay Chairman to Unit’s Board
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-09-04T17:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/blackstone-adds-former-avalonbay-chairman-to-unit-s-board.html
Blackstone Group LP, the world’s
largest private-equity firm, added former  AvalonBay Communities
Inc. (AVB)  Chairman Bryce Blair to the board of its Invitation Homes
unit, the largest owner of single-family rental houses.  Blair, also the former chief executive officer of apartment
landlord AvalonBay, where he worked for 20 years, “will be
tremendously helpful as we develop our platform,” Invitation
Homes Chairman and CEO Nick Gould said today in a statement.  Blackstone, based in New York, has spent more than $5
billion to buy at least 32,000 single-family rental homes as
Wall Street-backed investors create a new real estate asset
class from what has been a mom-and-pop business. Investors are
slowing their purchases as  home prices  rise at their fastest
pace since 2006 and they seek to demonstrate they can make money
by managing scattered rental properties.  Blair was chairman of Arlington, Virginia-based AvalonBay,
the largest apartment real estate investment trust by market
value after  Equity Residential (EQR) , from 2002 until this May. He was
AvalonBay’s CEO from 2001 to 2011.  Invitation Homes will be helped by Blair’s “background
building a leading company in the multifamily space,” Gould
said in today’s statement.  Private-equity firms,  hedge funds  and REITs have raised at
least $18 billion to buy more than 100,000 homes in the past two
years. They’re taking advantage of  prices  that fell as much as
35 percent from their 2006 peak and rising demand for rentals as
the U.S. homeownership  rate  fell to its lowest rate since 1998.
More than 7 million houses have been sold for a loss or seized
in foreclosure proceedings since 2007, according to RealtyTrac.  Share Performance  Shares of single-family REITs  American Homes 4 Rent (AMH) ,
 American Residential Properties Inc. (ARPI)  and  Silver Bay Realty Trust
Corp. (SBY)  are close to or below their initial offering prices.  Lenders have begun offering lines of credit to the biggest
rental investors. Colony American Homes, the third-largest
single-family investor, after Invitation Homes and American
Homes 4 Rent, today announced a $500 million line of credit
through JPMorgan Chase & Co. Invitation Homes has a $3.6 billion
line of credit from a syndicate led by Deutsche Bank AG.  Before joining AvalonBay, Blair was a partner at Trammell
Crow Residential, a real estate investment firm. He has been on
the board of  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) , the largest U.S. homebuilder by
market value, since 2011, and has been chairman of the National
Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  