-- BMW Said to Let Peugeot Engine Cooperation Lapse in 2016
-- B y   A n g e l a   M a i e r   a n d   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-09-04T10:47:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/bmw-said-to-let-peugeot-engine-cooperation-lapse-in-2016.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  PSA
Peugeot Citroen (UG)  will probably end cooperation on small gasoline
engines when the project agreement lapses in 2016, a person
familiar with the matter said.  BMW, the world’s biggest maker of luxury cars, no longer
needs the partnership because the Munich-based company is
developing its own engines, while Peugeot is tightening ties
with  General Motors Co. (GM)  in a broader alliance, said the person,
who asked not to be named as the talks aren’t public.  The program’s expiration would bring to an end joint work
that started in 2002, when BMW and Paris-based Peugeot, Europe’s
second-biggest carmaker, agreed to develop and produce as many
as 1 million small gasoline engines. They added plans later to
make components for hybrid electric-gasoline systems. The hybrid
portion unraveled last year after Peugeot and GM started setting
up their partnership in early 2012.  The jointly produced engines are used in BMW’s Mini small
cars, Peugeot’s mid-range vehicles and the Citroen brand’s DS4
and DS5 models. The German company is developing its own
architecture for three-, four- and six-cylinder gasoline and
 diesel engines . BMW Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer 
was cited in July by German financial daily Boersen-Zeitung as
saying the powering systems will also be deployed in the Mini.  Echos Report  Representatives for BMW and Peugeot declined to comment
beyond reiterating previous statements that the combustion-engine program will continue until 2016. French business
newspaper  Les Echos  reported earlier today that the carmakers
intend to end the partnership.  Peugeot plans to introduce lower-emission diesel engines,
dubbed DV-R, over two years starting in 2017, replacing 1.4- and
1.6-liter models now used in all the French carmaker’s vehicle
lines, the company said today in a  statement .  Investment in the project’s first phase will total almost
60 million euros ($79 million), with the motors to be built at a
plant in Douvrin,  France , Peugeot said. A second  production line 
will be set up in Tremery, France, in 2018. Annual capacity at
each site will amount to 640,000 engines.  BMW  fell  as much as 1.5 percent and was trading down 1.1
percent at 71.42 euros as of 12:43 p.m. in Frankfurt. Peugeot
declined as much as 2.5 percent in Paris and was down 1.5
percent at 10.49 euros, the lowest since Aug. 8, based on
closing prices.  Peugeot’s alliance with Detroit-based GM includes a joint
venture for parts procurement in Europe and the development and
production of cars that the manufacturers plan to begin selling
in 2016. The U.S. carmaker now owns  7 percent  of its French
counterpart under the partnership.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Maier in Munich at 
 amaier8@bloomberg.net ;
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  