-- Brazil Analyzes Phone Contracts After Spying Allegations
-- B y   A n n a   E d g e r t o n
-- 2013-09-05T21:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/brazil-analyzes-phone-contracts-after-spying-allegations.html
Brazilian telecommunications
regulator  Anatel  is analyzing contracts between national
operators and foreign companies to investigate possible breaches
of privacy after new allegations of U.S. spying.  Anatel is investigating “main companies with the largest
client bases,” a press officer said in an e-mailed response to
questions yesterday. Brazil’s largest phone companies include
Rio de Janeiro-based Oi SA and the local units of Madrid-based
 Telefonica SA (TEF) , Mexico City-based  America Movil  SAB and Milan-based  Telecom Italia SpA. (TIT)   Brazil demanded an explanation from the U.S. government
about documents that suggest the National Security Agency used
software to probe the communications of President  Dilma Rousseff 
with unidentified aides. The allegations were made on Brazil’s
most-watched TV news magazine, Fantastico, four days ago by
American journalist Glenn Greenwald, who obtained secret files
from Edward Snowden, a former NSA contractor, in May.  Communication privacy in Brazil is protected under a 1997
law, and current regulation protects the privacy of mobile
phones, landlines and Internet communication, according to
Anatel. Exceptions require a judge’s permission.  In meetings with ministers this week, Rousseff discussed
legislation to suspend operations for companies that participate
in spying, newspaper O Estado de S. Paulo reported Sept. 2,
citing Communications Minister  Paulo Bernardo . The Senate is
creating a committee to investigate the matter, according to the
upper-house website.  Following Laws  Oi “acts strictly in accordance with Brazilian laws, which
prohibit any type of breach of privacy without judicial
approval,” the company said in an e-mailed statement. Oi CEO
Zeinal Bava had a routine meeting with Bernardo yesterday for
unrelated reasons, the company said.  Press representatives of America Movil, Telefonica and
Telecom Italia had no immediate comment.  The Brazilian government created an interministerial group
in July to probe earlier U.S. spying allegations, according to a
statement e-mailed by the presidency press office.  Shares of Oi rose 1.6 percent to 3.87 reais at the close in
 Sao Paulo . Telefonica Brasil SA gained 1.1 percent to 48.27
reais, while  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3) , Telecom Italia’s local unit,
jumped 4.5 percent to 10.01 reais. America Movil climbed less
than 1 percent to 12.97 pesos in Mexico City.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edgerton in Brasilia at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  