-- Bridge Assured 135,000 Cars Leads to Bonds or IPO: Turkey Credit
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2013-09-04T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/bridge-assured-135-000-cars-leads-to-bonds-or-ipo-turkey-credit.html
Builders of Istanbul’s third
suspension bridge may sell bonds or shares once the span starts
generating revenue to refinance a $2.3 billion loan, the biggest
for a new infrastructure project in  Turkey .  The venture by Ankara-based IC Ictas Insaat Sanayi &
Ticaret AS and  Astaldi SpA (AST)  may be able sell bonds at a slight
yield premium to the government, according to Murat Gulkan, head
of Istanbul-based investor Unlu Portfolio Management. The yield
on Turkey’s dollar-denominated bonds due March 2023 jumped to a
record 5.88 percent yesterday, more than the 5.51 percent
 average  for  emerging markets , according to the  Bloomberg USD
Emerging Market Sovereign Bond Index. (BEMS)   The group, 67 percent owned by IC Ictas, won the $3 billion
government contract last year to build a 1.3-kilometer (0.8
mile) bridge across the Bosporus dividing Istanbul and 110
kilometers of connecting toll roads to help ease traffic. The
venture has more than 10 years to build and operate the bridge.
The government will compensate them should traffic be less than
135,000 vehicles a day, according to the terms of the deal.  “We may consider a bond sale or an initial public offering
once the project becomes operational,” Ibrahim Cecen, chairman
of IC Holding, the parent of IC Ictas, said by phone yesterday.
“The bond sale could be done to refinance the project.”  Syndicated Loan  The joint venture signed a nine-year loan with a group of
seven banks on Aug. 29, IC Ictas said in an e-mailed statement
two days ago. The banks include  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  and
its Dutch unit,  Turkiye Is Bankasi AS (ISCTR) ,  Turkiye Vakiflar Bankasi
TAO (VAKBN) , TC Ziraat Bankasi AS,  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB)  and  Yapi &
Kredi Bankasi AS (YKBNK) , co-owned by Unicredit SpA and Koc Holding AS
of Turkey, according to the note. Financial details weren’t
disclosed.  “We preferred to borrow from Turkish banks because they
offered better terms and acted much quicker in decision making
than foreign banks,” Cecen said. He declined to comment on the
cost of the loan.  The project will probably generate $600 million in annual
revenue, based on a $3 bridge toll and charges for distance
traveled and at least 135,000 vehicles a day, according to a
person with direct knowledge of the agreement who asked not to
be identified because he wasn’t authorized to speak about
borrowing terms. Revenue and shares of the consortium are used
as collateral for the loan, the person said.  The bonds may be rated as investment grade as the project
is guaranteed by Turkey’s Treasury, the person said. Turkey is
rated BBB-, the lowest investment grade, by Fitch Ratings.  Fed Tapering  The lira was little changed at 2.0571 per dollar as of 6:18
p.m. in Istanbul yesterday. The currency has depreciated 8.8
percent in the past three months amid concern that the conflict
in neighboring  Syria  will escalate and the U.S. will taper
monetary stimulus that boosted demand for emerging-market
assets.  It’s impossible to predict the group’s cost of borrowing
through bonds because of the volatility related to Federal
Reserve tapering and higher U.S. yields, Unlu’s Gulkan said by
e-mail from Istanbul yesterday.  “A rising tide lifts all boats, and rising U.S. Treasury
yields will lift funding costs for everyone,” Gulkan said.
“Bonds to refinance the bridge project would probably be
sellable” at Turkish government rates “plus something,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  