-- Bridgepoint Hires Goldman Sachs for Sale of Dutch Textbook Firm
-- B y   K i e l   P o r t e r ,   C e l e s t e   P e r r i   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-09-04T10:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/bridgepoint-hires-goldman-sachs-for-sale-of-dutch-textbook-firm.html
Bridgepoint Advisers Ltd. hired
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to oversee a potential sale of Dutch
textbook publisher Noordhoff Uitgevers, just as the government
tries to rein in the cost of school materials.  The private-equity firm will separate Noordhoff from the
group of education assets it acquired from  Wolters Kluwer NV (WKL) ,
said two people with knowledge of the talks, who asked not to be
identified because the London-based firm hasn’t made the process
public. The firm paid about 774 million euros ($1 billion) for
the businesses in 2007 and renamed the group Infinitas.  “Goldman Sachs has been appointed to help explore
strategic options” for Noordhoff Uitgevers, Infinitas said in
an e-mailed statement today. Officials at Bridgepoint and
Goldman Sachs declined to comment.  The Dutch undersecretary for education yesterday announced
plans to stop funding free textbooks for secondary school
pupils. From 2015, parents will be required to pay as much as
300 euros a year for books. Noordhoff sells textbooks for Dutch
children to use from primary school through university. The
company has 355 employees and has also developed study kits used
on the iPad, according to its website.  Private-equity firms typically pool money from pension
plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies within five
to six years, then sell them and return the money and a profit
after 10 years. The firms usually charge a management fee of as
much as 2 percent and keep 20 percent of the profits from
investments. Bridgepoint raised 4.8 billion euros for its fourth
pool of capital in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri in Amsterdam at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  