-- Browne, Team to Leave KCG’s Exchange-Traded Funds Desk
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-09-04T18:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/browne-team-to-leave-kcg-s-exchange-traded-funds-desk.html
Reggie Browne, a prominent
gatekeeper to the market for exchange-traded funds, is leaving
 KCG (KCG)  Holdings Inc. with at least two senior managers.  KCG, formed after Getco LLC took over Knight Capital Group
Inc. this year, said in a regulatory filing today that it had
ended its employment agreement with managers of its “listed
derivatives group.” The managers leaving included Browne,
Darren Taube and Eric Lichtenstein, according to Sophie Sohn, a
spokeswoman for  Jersey City , New Jersey-based KCG.  Browne, Taube and Lichtenstein joined Knight from Newedge
Group in June 2009, where they had been co-heads of ETF trading,
bringing 10 colleagues with them. The team built Knight’s desk
into the biggest contracted market maker for ETFs, acting as
lead market maker for a third of all ETFs listed on the  New York 
Stock Exchange as of June 2013, according to Laura Morrison,
head of trading and listing services for ETFs at  NYSE Euronext. (NYX)   “Reggie is very supportive of new and innovative products
coming to the market,” Morrison said in an interview. “He’s
often willing to step up first” to back a proposed ETF, she
said.  KCG said it will pay $15 million in severance costs related
to the departure in the third quarter, according to the filing.  New Contract  Browne’s team and KCG were unable to come to terms on a
renegotiated employment contract, said two people familiar with
the situation who asked not to be identified because they’re not
authorized to discuss the matter publicly. Browne didn’t respond
to a request for comment.  Knight agreed in December to be purchased by Chicago-based
Getco in a deal valued at $1.4 billion at the time, ending a
four-month saga in which it almost went bankrupt. Closely held
Getco, founded in 1999, was among six financial firms that
bailed out  Knight Capital  in August 2012, after a software
malfunction caused more than $450 million in trading losses.  John Dibacco and Joseph Mazzella will take over the ETF
operation on an interim basis, Sohn said. Browne, Taube and
Lichtenstein will remain at KCG until Sept. 13 “to provide for
a smooth and orderly transition,” according to the filing.  Industry ‘Pillar’  ETFs are baskets of securities, typically tracking an
index, that trade on an exchange like stocks. Assets in U.S.
ETFs have grown to about $1.5 trillion since their introduction
in 1993. The biggest ETFs, including the $135 billion SPDR S&P
500 ETF Trust, are regularly among the most traded equity
securities by volume.  Unlike stocks, ETFs require a lead market maker, hired by
the exchange, to guarantee liquidity for buyers and sellers of
their shares on the secondary market. Knight and other trading
firms also enable big investors to create and redeem bundles of
ETF shares directly with the funds, a function that helps share
prices track the funds’ indexes.  “The plumbers behind ETFs are so critical to the success
and evolution and explosion of ETFs, but they don’t always get
credit, and they should,” Tom Lydon, editor of ETF Trends in
 Irvine ,  California , said in an interview. “Reggie is one of the
pillars of the industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  