-- Bryans Are Two Chest-Bumps From Doubles Grand Slam at U.S. Open
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-09-04T00:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/bryans-are-two-chest-bumps-from-doubles-grand-slam-at-u-s-open.html
The chest-bumping Bryan brothers can
complete the first men’s doubles Grand Slam tennis sweep in 62
years this week, yet they each would earn less than 9 percent of
the singles champion’s prize at the  U.S. Open .  The American duo’s success comes amid a period of
unprecedented failure for U.S. men in singles, and as doubles
teams are getting an even smaller portion of the overall prize
money at tennis’s biggest events.  The winning men’s and women’s doubles teams at the National
Tennis Center this week will receive $460,000 in prize money, or
$230,000 per player. Each singles champion will get $2.6 million
-- with the four losing singles quarterfinalists, both men and
women, taking home $325,000 apiece.  “As far as doubles, it’s on life support,” nine-time
Grand Slam doubles champion  John McEnroe  said on a conference
call. “The Bryans are doing a great job trying to prop up
doubles. Without them it would be in even worse shape than it
is.”  Bob and  Mike Bryan  are two victories from winning their
fifth U.S. Open title. That would make them the first men’s duo
to win all four Grand Slam tournaments -- Wimbledon and the
Australian, French and U.S. opens -- in a calendar year since
Australians Ken McGregor and Frank Sedgman in 1951.  By  defeating  Britons Colin Fleming and Jonathan Marray 7-6
(9-7), 6-4 on Sept. 2, the top-seeded Bryans advanced to a
semifinal match against the fourth-seeded team of Leander Paes
of  India  and Radek Stepanek of the  Czech Republic .  There have been three women’s doubles Grand Slams and three
in mixed doubles since 1951, as well as singles slams by three
women -- Maureen Connolly,  Margaret Court  and  Steffi Graf  -- and
one man,  Rod Laver , who did it in 1962 and 1969.  Chest Bumps  The 35-year-old Bryans, native Californians who attended
 Stanford University  from 1996-98, have won 15 Grand Slam titles,
as well as the gold medal at the 2012 London Olympics. Each has
collected about $10.5 million in winnings. They are global crowd
favorites who celebrate winning points with chest bumps.  “We have the twin thing going for us,” Bob Bryan said at
a U.S. Open news conference on Sept. 1 after the brothers
reached the quarterfinals. “You’ve got to do it on a great
point or at the end of a match, because it doesn’t look good
when it’s a crowd just of, you know, crickets.”  The Bryans are a rare success story in recent U.S. men’s
tennis, which has struggled since the retirements of 14-time
Grand Slam singles champion  Pete Sampras  in 2003 and eight-time
champion  Andre Agassi  in 2006.  American Futility  No American man reached the fourth round at this year’s U.S.
Open, the first time that has happened in the tournament’s 133-year history. At Wimbledon, no U.S. man reached the third round
for the first time in 101 years. The last American man to win a
singles Grand Slam title was  Andy Roddick  in  New York  in 2003.  Even as they try to uphold the reputation of U.S. men’s
tennis, the Bryans’ specialty is falling further behind in prize
money.  At the start of the professional era in 1968, winning men’s
doubles teams ($4,200) made 30 percent of the singles champion
($14,000). Three years later, the men’s doubles prize per team
had dropped to $2,000.  By 2003, men’s and women’s doubles winners ($400,000) were
up to 40 percent of the singles winners ($1 million). In the
last decade, however, the rise in doubles prizes have stalled
while singles earnings have gone up 160 percent -- so doubles
winners now get less than 18 percent of the singles champions.  Grand Slams  There are similar disparities at the other Grand Slam
tournaments. At Wimbledon this year, winning doubles teams
earned about 19 percent of the singles winners; at the  French
Open , it was 24 percent, and at the Australian Open it was 20
percent.  “I sometimes wonder if there should be doubles,” McEnroe
said. “I don’t see what doubles, at this stage, is bringing to
our sport.”  For the Bryans, who have won 91 tournament titles together
and are on a 24-match winning streak, the riskiest part of
matches can be their chest bumps.  Mike Bryan said celebratory bumps happen after one brother
sees “the twinkle in the other twin’s eyes,” and both pointed
out there have been painful encounters.  “One time in our rookie season we did a chest bump at the
end of a match in Miami,”  Bob Bryan  said. “We saved some match
points. Mike kind of grabbed me, which is a no-no. So I came
down on his foot and sprained my ankle. I was on crutches for a
few days. That was a bad one.”  Tennis Passion  Patrick McEnroe, former captain of the U.S. Davis Cup team
for which the Bryans have a 22-4 record, said the brothers’
“passion for tennis is the biggest reason for their success.”  “They love tennis and love to get out there,” Patrick
McEnroe said on the conference call with his brother. “They’ve
obviously honed their skills so they’ve become doubles experts.
I think that was the right decision to make for the longevity of
their career.”  The Bryans -- Mike is two minutes older than Bob -- say
they want to continue playing together through the 2016 Rio de
Janeiro Olympics. The partnership is still fun, they said,
especially when they’re doing well.  “It’s always cozier when we’re winning,” Mike Bryan said.
“He treats me with more respect when I’m playing well and
making returns.”  “Look, we’re twins, our relationship is never going to
fall apart,” Bob Bryan added. “We are always going to be very
loyal to each other and always going to be really tight. That’s
never going to change. Life is good right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  