-- Business Investment in U.S. May Be Understated, Feroli Says
-- B y   C a r l o s   T o r r e s
-- 2013-09-04T20:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/business-investment-in-u-s-may-be-understated-feroli-says.html
Business investment in the U.S. was
probably stronger last quarter than government data indicate,
according to  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in  New York .  The 2.9 percent gain in spending on equipment at an
annualized rate last quarter may actually have been closer to 8
percent, Feroli said in a research report today. Such an
increase would have added an additional 0.25 percentage point to
the 2.5 percent advance in gross domestic product the Commerce
Department reported for the period from April through June.  “We believe that actual business equipment spending isn’t
as soft as the official number,” Feroli wrote.  Feroli came to that conclusion after looking at data on
machinery sales and inventories by wholesalers. The money spent
on new machines accounts for about 33 percent of total equipment
investments, he said.  Wholesale machinery sales jumped at a 24 percent annualized
rate in the second quarter and inventories dropped at an almost
$11 billion pace, according to Feroli’s calculations. The jump
in demand and drawdown in stockpiles indicate a much larger gain
in spending on this category than the government’s data show, he
said.  The  Bureau of Economic Analysis , the group within the
Commerce Department charged with calculating economic growth,
doesn’t take into account changes in inventories when compiling
its estimate for business investment, Feroli said.  “BEA is continually looking to improve its estimation
methodologies,” said Nicole Mayerhauser, chief of BEA’s
national income and wealth division, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Torres  in Washington 
 Ctorres2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  