-- HTC Slumps After Report Suspects Worked With Chengdu Government
-- B y   C i n d y   W a n g   a n d   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2013-09-04T08:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/htc-slumps-after-report-suspects-worked-with-chengdu-government.html
HTC Corp. (2498) , Taiwan’s biggest
smartphone maker, slumped in Taipei trading after Next magazine
reported that executives suspected of leaking designs were
working with the government of Chengdu in southwestern  China .  Shares  plunged  6.8 percent to NT$137.50, the lowest since
August 2005. Taiwan’s stock exchange has a 7 percent limit on
stock moves in either direction. The benchmark Taiex fell 0.1
percent today.  Chengdu promised to fund plants, production and marketing
for a new smartphone company if the HTC employees could pass
over technology and a small amount of cash, Next reported,
citing unidentified investigators. The employees are also
suspected of stealing about NT$20 million ($671,000) from the
company, the magazine said.  “This leaking incident following the departure of several
executives raises the question of the company’s management
ability,” Chris Chung, a Taipei-based analyst at President
Securities, said by phone.  Steve Hung, an analyst at Mega Securities, said investors
were also concerned the company’s August sales would fall and
the company would miss its third quarter guidance.  HTC had revenue of NT$13.2 billion in August, the company
said today after the close of trade. That is 45 percent below
the sales posted a year earlier. The company, which forecast
sales for the September quarter of NT$50 billion to NT$60
billion, has posted revenue of NT$28.9 billion for the first two
months of the period.  Product Planning  Lorain Wong, a spokeswoman for Taoyuan City, Taiwan-based
HTC, couldn’t immediately comment on Next’s report. An official
with Chengdu’s Communist Party committee, surnamed Qiang,
couldn’t immediately respond to the allegations when called by
Bloomberg News.  Taiwan ’s biggest maker of smartphones has said the criminal
investigation into four of its employees won’t affect product
planning in the fourth quarter, the company said on Sept. 2. Two
product design executives have been detained, and two managers
in research and development divisions were released on bail,
according to the Taipei District Prosecutor’s Office.  HTC Chief Executive Officer Peter Chou was responsible for
hiring the most senior member of the group of suspects,
according to Next.  The company is “disappointed” and would improve the
organization’s practices and processes, the Taipei-based Central
News Agency reported, citing a Sept. 2 message to employees from
Chou.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cindy Wang in Taipei at 
 hwang61@bloomberg.net ;
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  