-- Can We Pay a Minimum Wage That Makes Everyone Rich?
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-09-04T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/can-we-pay-a-minimum-wage-that-makes-everyone-rich-.html
Last week, fast-food workers staged
a one-day strike in 60 U.S. cities to demand a  minimum wage  of
$15 an hour, more than double the current federal minimum of
$7.25. The nationwide effort, “ Fight for 15 ,” was organized by
the  Service Employees International Union .  I feel bad for those who are relegated to a minimum-wage
job. I feel worse for those who want a minimum-wage job as a
 steppingstone  to something better and would be denied that
opportunity by the imposition of a higher wage floor. A higher
wage is great for the workers who keep their jobs; it isn’t so
great for those who wouldn’t get hired because  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) 
starts asking its existing workforce to do a bit more. With a
higher minimum wage, the cost of automating certain tasks
suddenly becomes more affordable.  Raising the minimum wage to lift people out of poverty has
the opposite effect. So why does an idea that violates the most
 basic principle of economics  keep coming back to haunt us? It
may appeal to our humanitarian instincts, but as social policy,
it fails the test.  Let’s start with the basics. As with any good or service,
there is a supply of, and demand for, labor. Supply and demand
meet at what’s known as the equilibrium price. The unintended
consequences of setting a cap or a floor on prices have been
well documented. Many economics textbooks use  New York  City’s
rent-control laws to demonstrate the effect of price caps: a
supply shortage as landlords keep apartments off the market
rather than lease them at a below-market rate. The lack of
supply also gives them the power to charge above-market rates on
apartments that aren’t subject to rent control.  Labor Surplus  The effect of price floors is just the opposite: a surplus.
More people -- an increase in the supply of labor -- want to
work at McDonald’s at a rate of $15 an hour than $7.25. That
leads to an influx of workers into the  labor force  and higher
 unemployment  as new entrants fail to find a job. (You have to be
looking for work to count as unemployed.) The higher the price
of labor, the lower the demand.  This is so basic that it defies logic to claim otherwise.
Yet that hasn’t stopped labor economists from cranking out
 studies  purporting to show that raising the minimum wage has
minimal negative consequences because only a small portion of
the workforce earns the minimum wage.  The “small portion” part is more or less correct. By
 official counts , less than 5 percent of U.S. hourly workers
earned the minimum wage or less last year, according to the
Bureau of Labor Statistics. (The reason some are paid less is
that there are exemptions to the law.)  The “minimal negative consequences” part is incorrect.
Job growth declines “significantly in response to increases in
the minimum wage,” according to Jonathan Meer, professor of
economics at  Texas A&M University , and Jeremy West, a graduate
student at the university, co-authors of a new  paper , “Effects
of the Minimum Wage on Employment Dynamics.”  Unlike most of the previous studies that use the level of
employment, Meer and West focus on the effect of a higher
minimum wage on  employment dynamics , or the number of gross job
gains and losses. The minimum wage “meaningfully affects
employment via a reduction in the rate of long run job growth,”
Meer and West write. For example, a 10 percent increase in the
minimum wage “reduces the gross creation of new jobs in
expanding firms by about 2.0 percent,” or 6,200 a year per
state on average. (Eighteen states and the  District of Columbia 
have  minimum wages  that are higher than the federal minimum.)
Think of it as jobs that would have been created but weren’t.
The impact on job destruction is less clear, the authors claim.  Costlier Mac  Any supply-side effects -- a bigger pool of labor that
improves the quality of employer-employee matches -- are
insufficient to “overcome the negative demand-side effects of
higher labor costs,” they write.  The analysis comports with how one would expect businesses
to behave, and not because they’re out to stick it to their
employees.  Fast-food restaurants spend about a third of their revenue
on labor. By  some estimates , doubling the minimum wage to $15
would raise the price of a Big Mac by $1.28 to $5.27. All things
being equal, that would tend to reduce sales and eat up more of
McDonald’s customers’ discretionary income.  The road to a higher-paying job goes through education,
training for the jobs of tomorrow, and incentives such as the
 earned income tax credit , not through the imposition of a floor
on wages.  “McDonald’s is pretty good at making burgers and fries,
but there is no reason to assume the company is equally adept at
 running a welfare program ,” Allen R. Sanderson, a senior
lecturer in economics at the  University of Chicago , writes in
the  Chicago Tribune .  So the next time someone tells you that the U.S. needs to
raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour, ask him what’s so special
about $15. Why not raise it to $50, or $100, and make everyone
rich?  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 