-- Canada Keeps Policy Rate at 1% on Delayed Export Recovery
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-09-04T15:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/canada-keeps-policy-rate-at-1-as-demand-rotation-delayed.html
Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz kept his main interest rate unchanged and reiterated that
current monetary policy remains appropriate as an expected
rotation of demand to exports and investment is being delayed.  Policy makers kept the  benchmark rate  on overnight loans
between commercial banks at 1 percent for the 24th consecutive
meeting and said slack in the economy will start to disappear in
2014. The decision from Ottawa was forecast by all 22 economists
in a Bloomberg News  survey .  “A gradual normalization of policy interest rates” can be
expected as inflation returns to target and excess capacity in
the economy is used up, policy makers led Poloz, 57, said in a
statement from Ottawa today, echoing the last decision.  Business spending and exports have slowed the expansion of
the world’s 11th largest economy this year even with recent
signs of stronger growth in the U.S. and Europe. Consumer
spending has continued to lead growth after warnings from Poloz
and Finance Minister Jim Flaherty about record debts taken on at
low interest rates.  “The bank is becoming more entrenched on the sidelines
even though they haven’t changed forward guidance,” David Watt,
chief economist at the Canadian unit of HSBC Holdings Plc, said
by telephone from Toronto.  The Canadian dollar rose 0.5 percent to C$1.0478 per U.S.
dollar at 11:38 a.m. in Toronto, the highest level in a week.
One dollar buys 95.44 U.S. cents.  Yields Fall  Yields on shorter-term government bonds fell and longer-dated securities rose. The two-year bond yield declined 1 basis
point to 1.21 percent, and 10-year debt rose 1 point to 2.68
percent.  “Uncertain global economic conditions appear to be
delaying the anticipated rotation of demand in  Canada  towards
exports and investment,” the bank said.  The central bank’s last quarterly business survey showed 35
percent of executives planned more spending on machinery and
equipment while 26 percent were cutting back. It was the third
lowest balance of opinion since the country exited recession in
2009.  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) , Canada’s second-largest mining
company, said in July it would delay a copper project in  Chile 
and the start of production at a coal mine in British Columbia
after a decline in commodity prices.  ‘Subdued’ Inflation  The bank also said that “significant slack” remains in
the economy, inflation “remains subdued” and a “constructive
evolution of household imbalances” is continuing, citing slower
growth of household debt and higher mortgage rates.  “The economy is so weak that rate hikes aren’t warranted
until 2015,” said  Krishen Rangasamy , senior economist at
National Bank Financial in Montreal. The rotation to business
investment “is going to be delayed for a while” and third-quarter growth will fall short of the bank’s 3.8 percent
forecast, he said.  Consumer prices  advanced 1.3 percent in July, the 15th
straight month the rate was slower than the bank’s 2 percent
target. Output growth slowed to a 1.7 percent annualized pace in
the second quarter, including a monthly decline of 0.5 percent
in June that was the biggest since the 2009 recession.  Today Statistics Canada said that the country’s trade
 deficit  widened to C$931 million in July, more than the most
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg Survey, as exports to the
European Union fell to the lowest since 2010.  Canada’s economic rotation is under way and will benefit
from improving U.S. demand, Bank of  Montreal  Chief Executive
Officer William Downe said at the Scotiabank Financial Summit in
Toronto.  Weak Resources  “While we have recently seen a weakening in natural
resources reflected in the exchange rate, this sector is
cyclical by nature, and it will recover,” he said. “In the
meantime, other areas of the economy are picking up the slack.”  The central bank said today the level of output in Canada’s
economy is about what policy makers had forecast in July. The
global economy is also progressing about as expected, the bank
said, adding that “its dynamic has moderated.”  The U.S. economy has “slightly less momentum overall than
anticipated,” the bank said, while the prospect of recoveries
in Europe and  Japan  “remains promising.” In some  emerging
markets , “financial volatility has increased, adding
uncertainty to growth prospects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  