-- Canadian Crudes Weaken on Plant Maintenance in Canada, Midwest
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-09-04T18:39:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/canadian-crudes-weaken-on-plant-maintenance-in-canada-midwest.html
Canadian  oil prices  weakened on the
 spot market  prior to maintenance at plants in  Canada  and the
U.S. Midwest.  Two upgraders in  Alberta  are scheduled to shut down for
work, and units at two Midwest refineries are expected to be
offline this month.  Western Canadian Select, a blend of oil-sands bitumen and
heavy conventional crude, weakened by 50 cents to a $25.75-a-barrel discount to U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate as of
2 p.m.  New York  time, said Calgary oil broker Net Energy Inc. It
was the widest discount for WCS since March 5, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “I think what we’re seeing is that the downtime on the
Husky upgrader,” along with  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) ’s Unit 2, “is
being priced in,” said Judith Dwarkin, chief energy economist
for ITG Investment Research Inc. in Calgary. “When upgraders
are down, that reduces the demand for bitumen.”  Husky Energy Inc.’s (HSE)  82,000-barrel-a-day Lloydminster
 upgrader , which processes heavy crude into lighter grades, will
shut for 45 days starting in early September, executives said on
an earnings call last month. Suncor said Aug. 1 that it’s
planning four to five weeks of maintenance on the 110,000-barrel-a-day Unit 2 at the Fort McMurray  upgrader .  Also in Alberta, Royal Dutch Shell Plc is shutting down the
97,870-barrel-a-day Scotford refinery near Edmonton work this
month, a person familiar with the matter said July 30.  In the U.S. Midwest,  Northern Tier Energy LP (NTI) ’s 74,000-barrel-a-day St. Paul Park  refinery  in Minnesota plans to halt a
fluid catalytic cracker during October, the company said during
its earnings conference call in August.  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Whiting,  Indiana ,  refinery  will shut a 75,000-barrel-a-day crude unit for 30 days of repairs starting in the
third week of September, according to IIR Energy, a Sugar Land,
Texas, energy information provider.  Syncrude, processed from oil-sands bitumen, was unchanged
at a $1.10-a-barrel discount to WTI, Net Energy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  