-- Canadian Dollar Rises as Central Bank Says Policy Appropriate
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-09-04T21:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/canadian-dollar-remains-higher-after-central-bank-rate-decision.html
The Canadian dollar strengthened for
a second day as optimism about faster global economic growth
fueled demand for riskier assets and  Canada ’s central bank kept
its main interest rate unchanged.  The currency rose against the majority of its most-traded
peers earlier as data showed gross domestic product growth
quickened in Australia and  China . All 22 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast no change at 1 percent by the Bank of Canada.
The Bank of Canada retained language from its last statement
saying its next move on interest rates would be to raise them.  “People look at Canada and Australia as being similar
types of economies in that they’re developed markets that also
have exposure to emerging-market activity,” said David Doyle, a
strategist at Macquarie Capital Markets, by phone from Toronto.
“Strength out of  Australia  probably has a feed through to the
Canadian dollar.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.3 percent to
C$1.0493 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It gained 0.6
percent earlier, the biggest intraday move since Aug. 8. One
loonie buys 95.30 U.S. cents.  Ride Along  “Canada is riding the coattails from overnight positive
data,” said Brad Schruder, a director of foreign exchange at
Bank of Montreal, by phone from Toronto. “I think this is more
a story of the Canadian dollar is just being caught up in
overall positive effects coming out of Asia.”  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government  bonds  fell, pushing
the yield up four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
2.72 percent. The 1.5 percent securities due in  June (CAGDPMOM)  2023 fell
32 cents to C$89.65.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, fell 1.1
percent to $107.35 per barrel and the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index of U.S. stocks gained 0.8 percent.  In his first interest-rate decision on July 17, Bank of
Canada Governor Stephen Poloz pointed to slack in the economy
and said monetary policy stimulus remains appropriate so long as
inflation is muted. The bank said “a gradual normalization of
policy interest rates can also be expected.”  Options traders were the least bearish on the Canadian
dollar in four weeks. The three-month so-called 25-delta risk
reversal rate, which measures the premium charged for the right
to buy the U.S. dollar against its Canadian counterpart versus
contracts to sell, fell to 1.43 percent, the lowest level on a
closing basis since Aug. 12.  Australian Growth  “Australia had better-than-expected GDP combined with some
improving data globally,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency
strategy at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , by phone from Toronto. “All
that helped growth currencies. And now that we have the Bank of
Canada statement out of the way we have a very slight hawkish
bias to the bank, and all that has supported” the currency.  Canada’s gross domestic product expanded 1.7 percent from
April through June, slowing from a 2.2 percent pace from January
through March, Statistics Canada reported Aug. 30 in Ottawa. A
Bloomberg survey projected growth of 1.6 percent.  The second quarter ended with a 0.5 percent decline in June
that was the most in a month since March 2009, during the last
recession, the data showed. Economists forecast a 0.4 percent
monthly contraction.  Implied volatility for three-month options on Canada’s
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart fell to its lowest in two
weeks, dropping to 7.35 percent. The average for this year is
6.8 percent.The measure is used to set option prices and gauge
the expected pace of currency swings.  The loonie is the second-worst performer in the past month
among the 10 currencies tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation
Weighted Index. Its 1.3 percent drop is second only to the
Norwegian krone’s 2.4 percent fall. The Australian dollar has
posted the biggest gain at 3.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Altstedter in  New York  at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  