-- Cantor Weighs Tying Debt Ceiling to Renewable Fuel Bill: Taxes
-- B y   A r i   N a t t e r
-- 2013-09-04T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/cantor-weighs-tying-debt-ceiling-to-renewable-fuel-bill-taxes.html
House Majority Leader Eric Cantor
may attach legislation to alter renewable fuel standards to a
package to raise the U.S. debt ceiling.  The House Energy and Commerce Committee is considering
options for revising the standard, a part of the 2007 energy law
that requires petroleum refiners and importers to blend billions
of gallons of renewable fuel into the motor fuel supply. Cantor,
a Virginia Republican, is weighing whether to tie changes to
must-pass legislation this fall, spokeswoman Megan Whittemore
told Bloomberg BNA in an e-mail.  The rules have been condemned by groups representing big
companies like  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  The standards
would join a growing list of Republican ideas for items they
want tie to approving an increase in the debt ceiling in mid-October. Others include approving the Keystone pipeline and
delaying or defunding the president’s health-care law.  The standards, expanded by the Energy Independence and
Security Act of 2007, require 36 billion gallons of ethanol or
renewable fuel in the nation’s fuel supply by 2022.  Possible changes include lowering the requirement for
advanced biofuels. Committee members’ staff will have ideas for
lawmakers when they return this month, said Republican
Representative John Shimkus of  Illinois , one of four committee
members leading the revision efforts.  Democrats and Republicans are arguing over everything from
tax policy and corporate rates to funding health-care exchanges
ahead of the next round of budget fights in Congress. Putting
not just Keystone but broader energy policy into the mix may
complicate an already tense situation.  Debt Fight  A full repeal of the standard, which requires 16.55 billion
gallons of renewable fuels into the nation’s fuel supply in
2013, is unrealistic, Shimkus said. The Democrat-controlled
Senate and President Obama wouldn’t support such a move.  While a spokeswoman for the House Energy and Commerce
Committee said a timetable for overhaul legislation has yet to
be established, attaching whatever bill emerges from the
committee to legislation needed to increase the debt ceiling
would essentially fast-track the bill.  The Treasury Department said last month the federal
government will hit its $16.7 trillion debt ceiling in mid-October, exhausting the government’s ability to borrow.  Republicans are trying to tie their others ideas to three
fiscal deadlines coming by the end of the year: to raise the
nation’s debt limit; fund the government for the rest of fiscal
2014; and replace about $1 trillion in across-the-board spending
cuts, known as sequestration.  Immediate Concerns  Among the “immediate concerns” likely to be addressed by
those efforts is the volatility of credits used to show
compliance with the standards known as known as Renewable
Identification Numbers, or RINs, said Shimkus, chairman of the
Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy.  A RIN is a number assigned to a batch of biofuel to track
its production. The Energy Information Administration, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm, said in July that prior to
2013, RINs had “consistently ranged” between $0.01 per gallon to
$0.05 per gallon, before climbing to highs of about $1.00 per
gallon in early March.  That’s because the market expects increases in the cost of
blending biofuels to meet the statutory volumes, the government
said.  Shimkus also said he expected any new measure to address
the “blend wall,” the point at which the standard requires that
the amount of ethanol mandated to blended into the gasoline
supply exceeds 10 percent, the maximum approved level for all
vehicles on the road.  Chevron, Exxon  Cantor broached the idea in a July meeting with executives
from the petroleum industry, although no commitments were made.  “The Majority Leader discussed a number of options to fix
this issue, and one option was if we came up with a good
bipartisan reform agreement out of the Energy & Commerce
Committee, then possibly moving it in a debt ceiling package or
other must pass legislation,” Whittemore said.  Groups including the American Petroleum Institute, which
represents companies such as  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MRO) ,  Phillips
66 (PSX)  Co., Chevron and  Exxon Mobil , have pushed for repeal of the
standard, arguing it is fundamentally flawed and unworkable.  Senator Barbara Boxer, the California Democrat who is
chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee,
also plans to hold hearing on the renewable fuel standard this
fall. She told BNA that “appropriate oversight” is needed.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net  