-- CBS, Google, Nestle, Umami, HTC: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-09-04T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/cbs-google-nestle-umami-htc-intellectual-property.html
CBS Corp. (CBS)  programming returned to
 Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  in time for the start of the National
Football League season, as the companies ended a one-month
dispute that blocked service to pay-TV subscribers in New York,
 Los Angeles  and  Dallas .  Time Warner Cable agreed to pay a significant increase for
the right to carry CBS, though still below $2 per subscriber per
month, according to people with knowledge of the situation who
asked not to be identified because the terms are private.  The accord ends a stalemate that left more than 3 million
Time Warner Cable subscribers without access to shows ranging
from “Under the Dome” to U.S. Open tennis. CBS and other TV
networks are demanding higher fees for broadcast signals and
looking for new ways to sell digital rights. That’s squeezing
pay-TV carriers like Time Warner Cable, which also are grappling
with competition from Web-based services such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   Time Warner Cable will resume carrying local CBS stations
and channels such as Smithsonian,  CBS Sports  and Showtime on its
systems, according to a Sept. 2 statement. The deal also covers
Showtime Anytime and video-on-demand for stations in New York,
Los Angeles and Dallas.  Showtime Anytime allows subscribers to view the premium
channel anywhere on tablets and mobile phones. Time Warner Cable
failed to obtain other out-of-home rights to CBS’s programming,
the people said. CBS may later try to sell those rights
exclusively to an online player like  Google Inc. (GOOG)  or Apple Inc.,
they said.  “While we certainly didn’t get everything we wanted,
ultimately we ended up in a much better place than when we
started,” Time Warner Cable Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt
said in a statement.  Content Owners Ask U.K. ISPs to Collect Digital Piracy Data  Film and music companies are asking British  Internet
service providers  to set up a voluntary procedure for policing
illegal downloading that would include the creation of a
database of repeat offenders, the U.K.’s Guardian newspaper
 reported .  Although offenders would initially simply receive warning
letters from their service providers, possible sanctions could
include a deliberate slowing down of their Internet connections,
blocked access to certain websites, disconnection from the
Internet and prosecution, according to the Guardian.  Under the proposed procedures, service providers --
including BT,  Virgin Media , BSkyB and TalkTalk --  would be
required to keep a list of customers to whom they send warning
letters, the newspaper reported.  The content-industry companies are to meet with Prime
Minister  David Cameron  next week to talk about how to combat
digital piracy, according to the Guardian.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Google, Nestle Agree on KitKat as Name for Newest Android System  Google Inc., creator of the world’s most used Internet
search engine, has named the newest version of its Android
operating system after a chocolate-covered wafer cookie made by
 Nestle SA (NESN) , the  BBC   reported .  Google has given a dessert-related name for each Android
release, with all in alphabetical order: Cupcake, Donut, Eclair,
Froyo (for frozen yogurt), Gingerbread, Honeycomb, Ice Cream
Sandwich and Jelly Bean, according to the BBC.  Nestle, based in Vevey, Switzerland, approved Google’s
choice of the new name, with no money changing hands in the
process, and will be producing more than 50 million KitKats
bearing the Android logo for 19 markets, the BBC reported.  A statue of the Android logo made from KitKats has been
installed at Google’s campus in Mountain View,  California ,
according to the BBC.  Umami Burger Can’t Force Name Change for Umami Mia Pizzeria  Umami Restaurant Group LLC, a Los Angeles-based hamburger
chain, failed to bar a Texas pizzeria’s use of the term
“umami.”  A federal court in Austin, Texas, rejected Umami’s request
for a court order requiring  Umami Mia Pizzeria LLC  to change its
name. The court noted that the term “umami” comes from the
Japanese language, and is used to describe a so-called fifth
taste in addition to sweet, salt, bitter and sour. The term was
coined by a Japanese academic in 1908 for this taste, which is
described as “meaty or savory.”  Evidence presented at a hearing and in court filings
established that a number of restaurants, companies and
organizations -- none of them parties to the suit -- also use
“umami” in their names, the court said.  In his order, U.S. District Judge Sam Sparks said that
Umami failed to present convincing evidence that consumers would
be confused by the similar names. He said that Umami Burger’s
market is “young, hip gourmands colloquially known as
‘foodies.’” They are consumers who “invest considerable time
and energy in being ‘foodies’ in much the same way young people
put great effort into following obscure bands of dubious
musicality.”  These consumers, he said, are likely to be familiar with
Umami Burger’s brand and not likely to be confused by the pizza
restaurant’s name.  Umami Burger doesn’t yet have a presence in Austin, while
the pizzeria is already open for business, he said. The pizzeria
would lose the effects of its preopening promotion, goodwill and
brand awareness if it was forced to change its name, according
to the ruling.  The case is Umami Burger Licensing USA LLC v. Umami Mia
Pizzeria LLC, 13-cv-00511, U.S. District Court, Western District
of Texas (Austin).  U.K. Charity Seeks Trademark for Companies Sharing Surplus Food  FareShare , a U.K.-based charity aimed at redistributing
food to the needy, is setting up a special trademark for
companies that make all of their surplus available for human
consumption, the Food Manufacturer website  reported .  Tony Lowe , founder of the charity, said that by December
his group hopes to have a pilot program with 12 companies
participating, according to Food Manufacturer.  Manufacturers wishing to qualify for the trademark must
demonstrate that they have a process through which they
identify, capture and offer their surplus for redistribution.  Lowe told the publication that he expects companies will be
enthusiastic about qualifying for the program and using the
trademark “as a badge of honor.”  For more trademark news, click here.  Patents  Microsoft Seeks Patent on Parental Control Function for Mobiles  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , which is spending 5.44 billion euros ($7.2
billion) to buy  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s handset unit, is seeking a patent on
a technology that will give parents control over their
children’s mobile devices.  According to application  20130225152 , which was published
in the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Aug. 29,
parents can use their mobile devices to “quiet” those in the
possession of their children.  The application says parents are having to battle to
control their children’s use of mobile devices, trying to
regulate how much time their offspring spend texting, talking on
the phone, watching television and surfing the Internet.  Sometimes parents actually have to step in and “physically
separate a device from a child, such as by taking a mobile phone
or tablet computer away at bedtime,” the Redmond, Washington-based company said in its filing.  The controlling device has the capacity to communicate with
multiple other devices, restricting communication and other
functions.  The technology covered by the patent could also be used to
halt annoying mobile phone rings and conversations that occur at
an event, Microsoft says, by restricting use of the mobile
device to a specific location.  Microsoft applied for the patent in December.  New Zealand’s Software Patent Ban May Attract U.S. Companies  New Zealand’s new patent law, which bans software patents,
may lead some U.S. companies to move to that country, the New
Zealand Herald  reported .  After the legislation passed last week, New Zealand’s
 Institute of IT Professionals  has been approached by U.S.-based
companies that are looking “very seriously” into relocating
because of the new law,  Paul Matthews , the institute’s chief
executive officer, told the newspaper.  David Lane, president of  New Zealand Open Source Society ,
told the Herald he expected those with resources, incentives and
few ethical concerns will test the new law “to see how far it
will bend.”  For more patent news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  HTC Employees Detained as Trade-Secret Breach Investigated  HTC Corp. (2498)  employees were detained by Taiwan authorities
after the smartphone maker alleged that some of its  trade
secrets  were leaked.  Two product design executives were detained, Huang Mou-hsin, the deputy chief prosecutor at the Taipei District
Prosecutor’s Office, said Sept. 2. A director and another senior
manager in the design and research-and-development divisions
were questioned and released on bail. A fifth person working
outside the company also is a suspect, said Huang, who declined
to comment on the person’s role.  HTC, which peaked in 2011, has plunged 88 percent since
then as it lost market share in smartphones to  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  The Taoyuan City, Taiwan-based
company has revamped its marketing strategy and shuffled
executives to rebuild the brand after its global ranking in
smartphones fell to ninth.  “We believe the investigation and detention of HTC’s key
R&D executives will have damaging impact on its new model roll-out in the next 6 months,” Richard Ko, an analyst at KGI
Securities Co. in Taipei, said in report to clients Sept 2.  HTC, the first maker of phones using software from Google
Inc., said its operations aren’t affected and its fourth quarter
products are on schedule, according to an e-mailed statement.  The company filed complaints to the Ministry of Justice’s
Investigation Bureau last month, accusing employees of leaking
commercial secrets and using fake receipts to seek
reimbursement, Huang said Aug. 31. Investigators searched HTC
offices and the employees’ homes on Aug. 30, according to Huang.  “Protecting the company’s proprietary and intellectual
properties, privacy and security is a core fundamental
responsibility of every employee,” HTC said in a  statement  on
its website. “The company expects employees to observe and
practice the highest levels of integrity and ethics.”  The company didn’t specify what secrets were involved in
the alleged breach.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 