-- Check Raises $24 Million to Bolster Mobile Bill Payment Service
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-09-04T11:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/check-raises-24-million-to-bolster-mobile-bill-payment-service.html
Check Inc. , the mobile finance
startup formerly called Pageonce, raised $24 million to bolster
its payment application and partner with more billers.  The financing round, led by Menlo Ventures, brings Check’s
total funding to $49 million. Check is pursuing a $20 billion
market for bill-payment services in the U.S, and aiming to
strike deals with services like utilities and phone companies,
said Chief Executive Officer Guy Goldstein.  “We want to double down on that business,” said
Goldstein, who co-founded the  Palo Alto , California-based
company in 2007. “The opportunity is huge, and we are building
a big company that’ll go public in the future.”  Check is among a growing number of companies trying to
disrupt the market for managing and paying bills online by
simplifying the process and focusing on mobile. Other
challengers include  Doxo Inc. ,  Pitney Bowes Inc. (PBI) ’s Volly, Zumbox
Inc. and  Intuit Inc. (INTU) ’s Mint.com.  Check  offers a free smartphone app that lets consumers pay
bills, get reminders when payments are due and monitor accounts.
The startup has tested a paid consumer offering, charging $5 a
month for the bill-pay app and then changing it to 30 cents per
transaction, before abandoning the fee and giving the service
away.  The company now makes money by collecting a per-transaction
fee from billers like wireless carrier Alltel Corp. and water
providers  Desert Water Agency  and  Irvine  Ranch Water District.
Check also generates revenue by charging consumers for extra
services such as same-day delivery of late payments.  Stale Products  While the majority of U.S. households with Internet access
pay bills through websites, growth in the industry has
stagnated, said Mark Schwanhausser, a director at San Francisco-based Javelin Strategy & Research. The new investment could help
Check pull ahead in a market where the dominant products haven’t
evolved much of late, Schwanhausser said.  “It feels old,” he said. “It needs to be reinvigorated
and reworked.”  Check doesn’t disclose its sales, and is not profitable,
Goldstein said. User growth is picking up though. Check is
processing more than $500 million of payment volume annually and
has almost 10 million customers.  “They’ve done a really nice job of making it really easy
to use,” said Doug Carlisle, a managing director at Menlo
Ventures in  Menlo Park ,  California . “They’ve gotten very nice
momentum.”  The funding round included participation from Morgenthaler
Ventures and Pitango Venture Capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  