-- Chi-X Australia CEO Targets 25% Market Share Within 12 Months
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-09-04T05:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/chi-x-australia-ceo-targets-25-market-share-within-12-months.html
Chi-X Australia Pty. says its market
share of Australian equity trading will grow to at least 25
percent within the next 12 months as banks and brokerages
increasingly split trade orders between itself and  ASX Ltd. (ASX)   Chi-X’s share of local equity trading reached a record 18.4
percent on Aug. 27, with an average daily value of A$244 million
last month, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. That will
grow to at least 25 percent in 2014 after an increase in so-called passive order flow, or orders to buy shares that wait in
a queue to be picked up by a seller, said John Fildes, chief
executive officer at Chi-X Australia.  “We will see more split posting of orders,” on Chi-X and
ASX, Fildes said in an interview in Sydney. “Now’s it’s about
deepening the order book by building the passive side and it’s
about brokers developing their capability to split-post
orders.”  Chi-X, backed by Nomura Holdings Inc., which began trading
in all companies on the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  in November
2011, competes with ASX, the former monopoly public venue for
share trading in  Australia . The outcome of a Sept. 7 general
election will boost stock-trading volumes, Fildes said.  “We’ve heard from retail brokers and institutional brokers
that they feel investors have been sitting on the sidelines
because of uncertainty about who’s going to be in power and what
their policies are going to be,” said Fildes.  “In the last few days, we have seen an appreciable up-tick
in volume as people get a feeling of some certainty about the
outcome. By next week, there will be a real outcome and that’s
when people will really come off the fence and we’ll see volumes
come back into the market.”  Abbott Favorite  Daily average trading  volume  in Australian shares last week
was higher than that of the past three months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Liberal-National coalition, led by  Tony Abbott , is on
track to defeat Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd ’s ruling  Labor Party 
on the weekend, polls show. Abbott will inherit record-low
 interest rates  designed to support an economy in which
unemployment is rising.  Stock exchanges and alternative trading venues have
struggled with weaker volumes in recent years amid uncertainty
in the global economy and as investors execute trades in so-called dark pools, which don’t publicly display live prices. The
number of shares changing hands daily in the U.S. has fallen by
one-third since 2009 to 6.2 billion this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Chi-X Global Holdings LLC also owns an alternative trading
platform in  Canada .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  