-- Chile Central Bank Cuts Growth Forecast on External Conditions
-- B y   J a v i e r a   Q u i r o g a
-- 2013-09-04T15:19:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/chile-central-bank-cuts-growth-forecast-on-external-conditions.html
Chile ’s central bank cut its
economic growth forecast for this year, citing weaker external
conditions and the slowdown in the first half of the year, while
saying that consumer demand remains robust.  Gross domestic product will expand between 4 percent and
4.5 percent, compared with the 4 percent to 5 percent forecast
three months ago, policy makers said in their quarterly monetary
policy report released today in Santiago. Growth will be little
changed next year at between 4 percent and 5 percent, they said.  Central bank President Rodrigo Vergara said on Aug. 26 that
policy makers are waiting for “somewhat more significant”
indicators of a slowdown in demand before cutting the benchmark
rate from the current 5 percent. Today, policy makers said that
dynamic domestic demand was one of the risks for higher
inflation, while adding that the recent decline in the peso and
lower bank lending rates were helping the economy adjust to
weaker external demand.  “You can’t dismiss the possibility that demand,
particularly consumer spending, will continue to adjust at a
slower-than-desired pace, increasing the risk of higher
inflation,” policy makers said in the report.  The bank was more confident that investment would slow as a
boom in the northern mining industry eases, while saying that
recent declines in consumer sentiment and slower wage growth
should also ensure a moderation in consumer spending.  Interest rates should decline in line with market
expectations, the bank said, with traders expecting a rate cut
before year end.  On Hold  The bank has left its key rate at 5 percent for 19
consecutive months, while discussing a possible rate cut at each
of the past four meetings. Policy makers said that economic
activity is slowing more than demand in the minutes of the
meetings.  Manufacturing output rose 4.7 percent in July from the year
earlier, while retail sales leaped 10.3 percent over the same
period. The economy expanded 4.3 percent in the first half of
the year, down from 5.6 percent last year.  Economic indicators show that growth in “internal demand
will moderate in the coming quarters, but we can’t ignore the
risk that consumer spending will continue to adjust at a slower
than anticipated rate,” Vergara told lawmakers as he presented
the quarterly report.  The bank raised its forecast for consumer spending growth
this year to 5.6 percent from the 5 percent predicted three
months ago, while leavings its forecast for total demand growth
at 4.9 percent. Excluding inventories, demand will rise 5.7
percent, the bank estimated, raising its forecast from 5.1
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Javiera Quiroga in Santiago at 
 jquiroga5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 