-- China’s Lou Says Risk of Local Debt Default Not Great
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-04T08:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/china-finance-minister-says-risk-of-local-debt-default-not-great.html
(Corrects currency conversion in fourth paragraph.)  Chinese Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei 
called the scale of the nation’s local government debt
controllable and said the risk of default was “not great.”  Lou, in an interview aired today by state broadcaster  China
Central Television , said the growth of borrowings by local
authorities was slowing. Some local governments do face
“relatively big” debt problems, especially those that
previously saw very rapid revenue growth, he said.  “They thought they would have money forever, so they dared
to borrow,” said Lou, who was named finance minister in March.
“For a period of time, their fiscal revenue grew 50 percent.
They thought the growth would be 50 percent for the next five
years, so they spent the money first.”  China  in July ordered a nationwide audit of local
government debt, which the National Audit Office said in a 2011
report totaled 10.7 trillion  yuan  ($1.75 trillion). Former
Finance Minister Xiang Huaicheng said in April the amount may be
twice as much at more than 20 trillion yuan. The lack of
transparency in local government borrowings prompted Fitch
Ratings Ltd. to cut China’s long-term local-currency debt rating
that same month.  Local Chinese governments have set up thousands of
companies to sidestep regulations that bar them from directly
taking bank loans or selling debt. These financing vehicles were
used to raise funding for the construction of roads, sewage
systems and other infrastructure.  Lou also said in the CCTV interview that China may
introduce some deductions for individual income taxes, such as
for dependent family members and mortgage payments. He also said
that China can meet its fiscal revenue goals for 2013.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 John Liu  in Beijing at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  