-- China Money Rate Touches Seven-Week Low as PBOC Adds Cash
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-04T02:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/china-money-rate-touches-seven-week-low-as-pboc-adds-cash.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
fell to the lowest level in almost seven weeks after the central
bank pumped more cash into the financial system.  The People’s Bank of China injected 10 billion  yuan  ($1.6
billion) for seven days via reverse-repurchase operations
yesterday, after adding a net 41.5 billion yuan in the week
ended Aug. 29. The monetary authority asked lenders to submit
orders today for 14-day reverse repos and 28-day repo
agreements, and gauged demand for 91-day bills, said a trader at
a primary dealer required to bid at the auctions.  “The central bank already has the authority on the money
market and the power in deciding the liquidity level,” Wei
Fengchun, head of macro strategy at Shenzhen-based Bosera Asset
Management Co., wrote in a note. “It did have some problem in
managing market expectations in June. However, it has noticed
the importance of that.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the banking system, dropped 25 basis points, or
0.25 percentage point, to 3.48 percent as of 10:22 a.m. in
 Shanghai , according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. It touched 3.4 percent
earlier, the lowest since July 18.  The cost of one-year interest rate swaps, the fixed payment
needed to receive the floating seven-day repo rate, dropped one
basis point to 4.13 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Chinese President Xi Jinping said the nation would “rather
bring down the growth rate to a certain extent in order to solve
the fundamental problems” hindering long-run development,
according to a transcript released by the official Xinhua News
Agency. Premier  Li Keqiang  said yesterday he’s confident the
nation will achieve the year’s economic goals.  The yield on the government’s 4.08 percent notes due August
2023 added one basis point to 4.08 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  