-- China’s Bright Food Considers Acquisition of Israel’s Tnuva
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-09-04T04:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/china-s-bright-food-considering-acquisition-of-israel-s-tnuva.html
Bright Food Group Co., the dairy and
consumer-products group backed by the Shanghai government, said
it’s considering an acquisition of  Israel ’s Tnuva Food
Industries Ltd. as the Chinese company expands overseas.  Bright Food is in “preliminary” acquisition talks on
Tnuva, the Chinese company’s spokesman Pan Jianjun said by phone
today, without specifying the size of the stake it might buy.  The company has been seeking acquisitions overseas and
bought a 60 percent stake last year in British cereal maker
Weetabix Ltd. from private-equity firm  Lion Capital LLP . Rivals
including  China  Mengniu Dairy Co. have also sought deals or
foreign partnerships after a series of safety scandals hurt
 consumer confidence  in local brands.  “Bright Food needs to speed up on overseas acquisitions to
improve the sourcing of raw milk as well as the research and
development capacity,” Todd Yang, an analyst at Guosen
Securities Co., said by phone today.  Bright, which has retail outlets across China and whose
brands include Big White Rabbit candy and Aquarius drinking
water, also operates tea, dairy and rice farms.  Tnuva is the largest food manufacturer and distributor in
Israel,  according  to the website of private-equity firm  Apax
Partners , which has invested in the company. It owns seven of
the 10 most known food brands in Israel and accounts for more
than 14 percent of shelf space in supermarkets, the website
says.  Tnuva was formed more than 80 years ago as an agricultural
cooperative of 620 farming communities across the country, who
were also the company’s suppliers of raw milk and produce,
according to Apax. Members of the co-operative in 2007 approved
the sale of a majority stake in Tnuva to Apax at a price that
valued the company at $1.025 billion at the time.  International Deals  Both parties are looking at the possibility of a tie-up,
Pan said, adding that there’s no set timetable or budget for a
deal. The Chinese food maker lost out on a stake in yogurt maker
Yoplait in 2011 and was outbid by  Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL)  for
 CSR Ltd. (CSR) ’s sugar unit in 2010.  Bright competitor China Mengniu, the country’s largest
dairy producer, in August reported a 16 percent increase in
first-half earnings as tie-ups with foreign milk producers
helped reassure customers its products were safe. Danone, the
French owner of Activia yogurt and Evian water, said in May it
would spend about 325 million euros ($428 million) to form a
joint venture with Mengniu and invest in the company.  Pork producer Shuanghui International Holdings Ltd. agreed
to acquire Smithfield Foods Inc. for about $4.72 billion in May.  Tnuva couldn’t be immediately reached for comment outside
regular office hours. In a Sept. 2 statement to the Tel Aviv
stock exchange, Tnuva said Apax gets offers for a stake in the
company from time to time and Apax has indicated offers haven’t
led to negotiations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anjali Cordeiro in  Hong Kong  at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net ;
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  