-- China Stocks Extend 10-Week High on Materials, Ports
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-09-04T10:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/china-stock-index-futures-drop-after-index-jumps-to-10-week-high.html
(Corrects date of when  Shanghai  free-trade zone was
approved in second paragraph.)  China ’s benchmark stock index
extended a 10-week high after material producers and port
operators rallied. Drugmakers and technology companies fell.  Shanghai International Port (Group) Co. surged 10 percent,
adding to a 95 percent gain since the Ministry of Commerce
issued a statement on Aug. 22 reiterating approval of the city’s
free-trade zone, which was given by the State Council on July 3.
Rising Nonferrous Metals Share Co. paced a rally for rare earth
producers. Yonyou Software led  declines  for technology
companies, the best-performing industry group in 2013. A measure
of health-care companies pared this year’s gains to 23 percent,
dragged down by Kangmei Pharmaceutical Co.’s 1.9 percent loss.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.2 percent to 2,127.62
at the close, adding to yesterday’s 1.2 percent gain. Investors
are rotating into cyclical companies such as materials as the
economy improves, Bank of Communications Co. said in a note
today. HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics’ services gauge
rose to 52.8 last month from July’s 51.3, a report today showed.  “Economic data doesn’t seem to pose a problem so there are
fewer risks now,” said Xu Shengjun, analyst at Jianghai
Securities Co. in Shanghai. “The market isn’t doing much today
because it’s digesting yesterday’s gains but sentiment’s still
positive.”  The Shanghai index has climbed 9.1 percent since reaching
this year’s low on June 27, spurred by signs the economy is
stabilizing. An official report released over the weekend showed
a manufacturing gauge climbing to a 16-month high in August.
Data yesterday showed the government’s services index at 53.9 in
August, above the level that indicates expansion.  Rare Earth  The CSI 300 Index retreated 0.2 percent to 2,350.70, while
the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  slid 0.2 percent. The
Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded Chinese
stocks in the U.S. added 2.6 percent in New York yesterday.  A gauge of material producers in the CSI 300 rose 0.8
percent, the biggest gain among 10 industry groups, followed by
energy. They are the worst-performing industries this year with
losses of at least 22 percent.  “The rotation into late-cycle industries has begun,” Hao Hong, Hong Kong-based equity strategist at Bank of
Communications, wrote in the note, referring to industries such
as energy, industrials and materials. “The necessary conditions
for a bull market are improving growth prospects, cheap
valuation, depressed sentiment and liquidity. The first three
conditions have been met.”  Rising Nonferrous Metals jumped 4.1 percent to 48.70  yuan .
Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth Hi-Tech Co. advanced 0.7
percent to 29.46 yuan. The Ministry of Industry and Information
Technology will start a check of rare earth exploration,
smelting and trading companies, the Economic Information Daily
reported, citing an unidentified person from ministry.  Trade Zones  China, supplier of 90 percent of the world’s rare earths,
has curbed output and exports since 2009, when quotas were set
to conserve resources and protect the environment.  Shanghai International Port advanced 10 percent to 4.97
yuan. Tianjin Port Co. gained 4.5 percent to 7 yuan. Shanghai’s
Free-Trade Zone, which was approved by the State Council in
August and may open as early as the end of this month according
to the Shanghai Securities News, is part of Premier Li’s drive
to shift the economy toward services and sustain long-term
growth.  A measure of health-care companies in the CSI 300 fell 1.1
percent. Kangmei Pharmaceutical dropped 1.9 percent to 18.98,
while Hualan Biological Engineering Inc. declined 1.9 percent to
26.69 yuan.  A sub-index of  technology companies  in the CSI 300 slipped
1.2 percent, paring its gains this year to 42 percent. Yonyou
retreated 2.4 percent to 13.37 yuan. Chengdu Dr Peng Telecom &
Media Group Co. slid 2.4 percent to 14.97 yuan.  Growth Outlook  Today’s HSBC services reading was the highest since March’s
54.3, as growth in business activity at service providers picked
up to a five-month high.  President Xi Jinping said China’s slower economic growth
this year was a conscious choice by the government to allow it
to adjust the nation’s economic structure.  China would “rather bring down the growth rate to a
certain extent in order to solve the fundamental problems”
hindering long-run development, Xi said in an interview
yesterday, according to a transcript distributed by the official
Xinhua News Agency.  Trading volumes in the Shanghai index were 30 percent
higher than the 30-day average today, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It’s valued at 8.6 times its projected 12-month
earnings, compared with the five-year average of 12.6 times,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  