-- Chinese Insurers Have $14 Billion to Buy Overseas Real Estate
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-09-04T01:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/chinese-insurers-have-14-billion-to-buy-overseas-real-estate.html
Chinese insurers could spend about
$14.4 billion on overseas commercial real estate, aided by a
stronger local currency and easier regulations amid a limited
supply of prime properties at home, CBRE Group Inc. said.  The insurers are seeking high-quality office investments in
international gateway cities such as London, New York and
Toronto, according to an e-mailed release from CBRE. Asian
markets with similar cultural backgrounds such as  Singapore ,
 Hong Kong  and  Malaysia  will also be major destinations, it said.  China last year made it easier for insurers to buy real
estate and other assets outside the country, a move that was
expected to help them improve their investment yields. The
Chinese  yuan  has risen 6.3 percent against the British pound and
8.2 percent against the Canadian dollar this year.  “Most of the Chinese investors with sufficient capital are
now facing limited domestic investment channels,” Frank Chen,
head of research for China at CBRE, said in the release.
“Factor in the escalating purchasing power enabled by the
continuous appreciation of the  renminbi  and now is the ideal
time for Chinese capital to enter the overseas market.”  Chinese insurers had total assets of $1.2 trillion in 2012
and new regulations allow these institutions to invest as much
as 15 percent of assets in “non-self-use” real estate, CBRE
said. Most insurance funds globally have about a 6 percent
allocation to real estate, with 20 percent of that in offshore
markets, CBRE said.  Ping An Insurance Group Co.,  China ’s second-largest life
insurer, in July agreed to buy the Lloyd’s of London building
from a Commerz Real AG-managed fund, two people with knowledge
of the transaction said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  