-- Colombia President Approval Plunges as Protests Roil Nation
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2013-09-04T20:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/colombian-president-s-approval-plunges-as-protests-roil-nation.html
Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos ’ approval ratings fell to a record low as students and
truck drivers joined farmers in nationwide protests amid growing
discontent with the economy.  The number of Colombians with a favorable image of Santos
dropped to 21 percent at the end of August from 48 percent in
June, according to a Gallup poll published by Caracol Radio and
 El Tiempo  newspaper. Seventy-one percent of Colombians believe
the economy is getting worse, up from 49 percent, while 80
percent say corruption is increasing, according to the survey.  Police fired tear gas and the army patrolled the streets
last week as protests in support of the nation’s farmers brought
disorder to central Bogota on Aug. 29. City authorities imposed
curfews in select neighborhoods as some demonstrators smashed
shop windows and battled riot police.  Coffee growers, dairy farmers and other agricultural
workers have blocked highways and staged protests since Aug. 19
over the government’s farm and trade policies, which they say
reduce their incomes. The fall in the president’s poll ratings
comes ahead of congressional and presidential elections in March
and May.  The Gallup survey of 1,200 people in five cities from Aug.
27 to Sept. 2 has a margin of error of 3 percentage points.  Santos said in May that he will seek to continue his
policies after his first presidential term ends next year. He
has not officially announced his candidacy.  Former Marxist  The poll shows that Santos probably wouldn’t win next
year’s election in the first round against a candidate from
former President Alvaro Uribe’s Democratic Center movement or a
contender such as former Marxist guerrilla Antonio Navarro Wolff, said Marta Ruiz, a columnist at Semana,  Colombia ’s
biggest news magazine.  “With this scenario, it’s almost guaranteed that if he
runs for re-election he’d have to fight a second round,” Ruiz
said in a phone interview. “The sense of indignation that
people felt in the streets last week show that there’s enormous
dissatisfaction.”  The number of Colombians with a favorable image of Navarro
Wolff rose to 50 percent from 32 percent, the poll found.
Colombian presidential candidates need to get more than 50
percent of votes cast to win in the first round.  FARC Settlement  Santos’ falling popularity means he will probably re-double
his efforts to achieve a peace settlement with rebels from the
Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, in the next few
months, Ruiz said. The government has been talking to FARC
negotiators in  Havana  since November, seeking an end to the
country’s 50-year conflict.  Santos in May appointed allies including former central
bank Co-director Juan Jose Echavarria and former National Police
Chief Oscar Naranjo to his Good Government Foundation that
served as the base of his 2010 election campaign.  Colombia is passing through a “storm,” Santos said in an
Aug. 29 speech on state television, adding that the government
will control prices of fertilizers and pesticides to help
farmers.  Eighty-two percent of respondents in the poll said Colombia
is deteriorating rather than improving.  The central bank held its key rate at 3.25 percent for
fifth straight month on Aug. 30. Some board members argued for a
cut to try to revive economic growth that slowed to 2.8 percent
in the first three months of the year from 3.1 percent in
previous quarter.  Central bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe told reporters Sept.
2 there is “some risk” this year’s expansion will fall short
of the central bank’s forecast of 4 percent. A free trade
agreement between Colombia and the U.S. took effect last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  