-- Commerzbank Unit Sued in Delaware Over Trust Payments
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-09-04T14:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/commerzbank-unit-sued-in-delaware-over-trust-payments.html
A unit of  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s
second-biggest bank, was sued in a U.S. court by investor Ocampo
International SA for more than 50 million euros ($65.8 million)
in missed payments since 2010 from trust securities.  The unit, Hypothekenbank Frankfurt AG, formerly Eurohypo
AG, set up two Delaware trusts to raise capital from
international investors, and stopped making payments in 2009,
British Virgin Islands-based Ocampo said in a Delaware Chancery
Court complaint filed yesterday in Wilmington.  “Due to the actions of its ultimate parent, Commerzbank,
the bank has ceased to be a profit-maximizing business” and
“it is now impossible for the bank to record a balance sheet
profit,” according to court papers.  Germany’s top civil court, the Federal Court of Justice,
ruled May 28 that Eurohypo wrongly stopped payouts on the
securities and that Frankfurt-based Commerzbank must continue to
pay interest.  “The bank, and its ultimate parent Commerzbank, have
substantially benefitted” from suspension of payments,
according to Ocampo’s complaint in the Delaware suit.
“Commerzbank group realized equity gains of approximately 290
million euros” through trust-share repurchases.  Commerzbank spokeswoman Margarita Thiel wasn’t immediately
available to comment on the lawsuit at her Frankfurt office.  Shares of Commerzbank, which was forced into an
18.2 billion-euro state bailout, rose the most since October
2011 on Aug. 8 after second-quarter earnings fell less than
analysts had estimated.  The case is Ocampo International SA v. Eurohypo Capital
Funding LLC I, CA8863, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  