-- Copper Slumps Most in Five Weeks on Concern Stimulus Will Slow
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-09-04T17:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/copper-falls-on-concern-u-s-economy-will-spur-reduced-stimulus.html
Copper futures tumbled the most in
five weeks on mounting speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will
ease economic stimulus and on concern the U.S. is moving closer
to a military strike on Syria.  Fed policy makers said in meeting minutes released Aug. 21
that they support a plan to curb bond buying this year if the
economy improves. U.S. manufacturing reached a two-year high in
data released yesterday, and Toyota Motor Corp., Ford Motor Co.
and Chrysler Group LLC reported U.S. sales gains for August
today. The Fed will release an economic outlook survey today,
while a Senate panel votes on limited strikes against Syria.  “The Fed and questions around Syria present markets with a
lot of uncertainty, and markets hate uncertainty,”  Michael Smith , the president of T&K Futures & Options in  Port St. Lucie ,
Florida, said in a telephone interview. “We’ve seen a lot of
good economic data lately, but until some of these issues are
clarified, traders are going to wait on the sidelines.”  Copper futures for delivery in December fell 1.9 percent to
settle at $3.241 a pound at 1:15 p.m. on the Comex in  New York ,
the biggest drop since July 30. Prices are down 11 percent this
year.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months lost 1.7 percent to $7,124 a metric ton ($3.23 a pound).  Prices also retreated as stockpiles monitored by the LME
increased, said  Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at commodities broker
Fujitomi Co. in  Tokyo . Inventories gained for a fifth session to
603,900 tons, the highest since Aug. 6, according to daily
exchange data.  The copper market’s surplus will widen to 500,000 tons in
2015 from 392,000 next year,  Max Layton , an analyst at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., said in a report yesterday. The metal will
trade at $6,600 in 12 months, according to the bank.  Aluminum, lead, nickel and zinc also dropped in London. Tin
rose.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  