-- Crude Drops as U.S. Weighs Syria Attack
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-09-04T21:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/crude-drops-as-u-s-weighs-syria-attack.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell
the most in two weeks as the U.S. considered limiting the scale
of military strikes on Syria.  Futures dropped 1.2 percent. The Senate Foreign Relations
Committee passed a resolution authorizing the “tailored” use
of force. It was the first test of congressional support for
President  Barack Obama ’s plan to attack Syria in response to the
alleged deployment of chemical weapons against civilians.  “As the market begins to expect a more limited involvement
for the  United States  in Syria and a more limited potential
expansion of the conflict, it’s taking some of the premiums off
the top,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics
LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant.  WTI for October delivery slid $1.31 to settle at $107.23 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the biggest decrease
since Aug. 20. Prices have jumped 17 percent this year. The
volume of all futures traded was 21 percent below the 100-day
average at 3:59 p.m.  Prices were little changed after the  American Petroleum
Institute  reported U.S. inventories fell 4.16 million barrels
last week. The October contract, which traded at $107.30 before
the API released the report at 4:30 p.m., moved to $107.37 at
4:35 p.m. in electronic trading.  Brent for October settlement slid 77 cents, or 0.7 percent,
to $114.91 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The volume of all futures traded was 21 percent above
the 100-day average. Brent’s premium to WTI widened to $7.68 a
barrel from $7.14 yesterday.  ‘Limited’ Resolution  The Senate vote is “a key event today,” said Phil Flynn,
senior market analyst at the Price Futures Group in  Chicago .  The draft legislation supports the use of force in a
“limited and tailored manner against legitimate military
targets” during a 60-day period following enactment, with a
possible 30-day extension at the president’s request. The
resolution doesn’t authorize the use of U.S. ground troops in
combat. The full Senate will consider it next week.  “I believe that Congress will approve” a resolution
authorizing force, Obama said at a news conference today in
 Stockholm . “In the face of such barbarism,” the international
community cannot be “silent.”  Obama visited  Sweden  today on his way to a Group of 20
summit in  St. Petersburg ,  Russia .  Russian Objections  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  said the  U.S. Congress  has
no right to approve military action against Syria because that’s
strictly the purview of the  United Nations Security Council .
Putin has said he will only support a Security Council
resolution for military strikes if there is conclusive proof
that the Syrian government used chemical weapons. Russia has
veto power in the council.  “No congress in any one country can authorize such
things,” he said at the Kremlin. “What Congress and the Senate
are doing now is essentially legitimizing aggression. This is
unacceptable.”  WTI jumped to a two-year high last week as signs of an
imminent U.S. attack on Syria bolstered speculation the conflict
will spread and disrupt Middle East oil supplies. The region
accounted for about 35 percent of global crude production in the
first quarter of this year, according to the  International
Energy Agency .  “When you have a market that’s overdone, it’s got to come
off at some point,” said  Ed Morse , Citigroup’s global head of
commodity research in  New York .  Stimulus Speculation  Syria borders Iraq and is near Iran, countries that
together hold almost a fifth of the output capacity from the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, Bloomberg
estimates show.  Prices also slid on speculation that the  Federal Reserve 
will trim stimulus measures this month. The economy maintained a
“modest to moderate” pace of expansion from early July through
late August, the Fed said today in its Beige Book business
survey.  Fed officials have been scrutinizing economic data to
determine the timing and pace of any reduction in its $85
billion monthly bond-buying program. The central bank, which has
said it may pare stimulus if the  U.S. economy  improves in line
with its forecasts, will hold its next policy meeting on Sept.
17-18.  Crude stockpiles  in the U.S., the world’s largest oil
consumer, fell by 2 million barrels to 360 million in the week
ended Aug. 30, according to the median estimate of 12 analysts
in a Bloomberg survey before an Energy Information
Administration report tomorrow. It would be the eighth decline
in 10 weeks.  Libyan Reserves  Libya, holder of Africa’s biggest oil reserves, is not
exporting crude and pumping remains limited to 200,000 barrels a
day, Ibrahim Al Awami, the oil ministry’s director of inspection
and measurement, said today.  Brent futures for delivery in December 2014 widened their
discount to the December 2013 contract yesterday as Mexico sold
next year’s futures in its hedging program, according to  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the Price Futures Group in
Chicago. The  discount  was $9.32 today, narrower than yesterday’s
$9.75 and a record $10.29 on Aug. 28.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
October was 27.5 percent, down from 28.6 percent yesterday, the
highest level since December, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 444,438
contracts as of 4:36 p.m. It totaled 588,069 contracts
yesterday, 8.8 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.86 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  