-- Daimler Weighs Small-Car Production With Renault-Nissan
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-09-04T09:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/daimler-weighs-small-car-production-with-renault-nissan.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  and the Renault-Nissan
alliance are considering expanding their cooperation to team up
on manufacturing future small-car models.  “We have started a feasibility study investigating
benefits from development and production of joint components for
the next generation of compact cars,” Thomas Froehlich, a
Daimler spokesman in Stuttgart, Germany, said by e-mail today.
The review is ongoing and no decisions have been finalized.  Daimler has gradually added projects to a three-year-old
cooperation with  Renault SA (RNO)  and its partner  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) 
that was originally focused on Daimler’s Smart city cars and
delivery vans. Last year, the companies agreed to jointly
develop a four-cylinder gasoline engine and to license Mercedes-Benz transmissions to Nissan’s Infiniti brand.  Mercedes, the third-largest maker of  luxury vehicles , has
been expanding its lineup of entry-level vehicles to lure
younger customers to the brand. Mercedes, which aims to overtake
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG in sales by the end of the decade,
introduced the CLA compact four-door coupe this year.  A future version of the CLA might be built at Nissan’s
plant in Aguascalientes, Mexico, Automotive News reported July
16. A decision would be made in early 2014, the magazine said
citing Daimler Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche .  Joint production of Daimler and Nissan vehicles could start
as early as next fall in the Mexican facility, which is under
construction, the Nikkei newspaper reported yesterday.  No decision on production in Mexico has been taken,  Rachel Konrad , a Renault spokeswoman, said by e-mail. She declined to
comment on “speculative media reports.”  Zetsche and  Carlos Ghosn , the CEO of both Nissan and
Renault, said in 2011 that Nissan might use Daimler’s compact-car technology to make a vehicle for the Infiniti luxury brand.
This vehicle is scheduled for introduction next year, the
companies said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  