-- David Brenneman, Morgan Stanley Equity Risk Manager, Dies at 37
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-09-04T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/david-brenneman-morgan-stanley-equity-risk-manager-dies-at-37.html
David Brenneman, a Harvard-trained
lawyer who crossed into finance and was an executive director in
equity risk management at Morgan Stanley, has died. He was 37.  He died on Aug. 31 at  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer
Center  in  Manhattan  following a 16-month battle with
leiomyosarcoma, or LMS, a rare cancer of the soft tissue,
according to his wife, Mina Brenneman. A father of three, he was
a resident of Chappaqua,  New York , and stopped working only in
mid-July when he had his final surgery, his wife said.  At Morgan Stanley, owner of the world’s largest brokerage,
Brenneman specialized in prime brokerage and worked at the
firm’s Manhattan  headquarters  in Times Square, spokesman Mark
Lake said. Prime brokerage typically supplies cash management
and securities lending to clients including  hedge funds  and
other large investors.  Brenneman jumped to finance after starting his career in
another demanding field, law.  “After the birth of his first son, he couldn’t stand the
hours anymore,” Mina Brenneman said yesterday in an interview.
“He went from 80 hours a week to 60 hours a week. We thought
that was a vast improvement.”  In April, about 200  Morgan Stanley (MS)  colleagues attended the
annual  fundraising gala  of the Sarcoma Foundation of America to
see Brenneman receive the group’s Courage Award for “strength
and perseverance” in battling the disease. He raised hundreds
of thousands of dollars toward sarcoma research.  Appreciative Remarks  “Over the past year, I really can say that Morgan Stanley
has become part of my treatment process, part of my recovery, a
second family to me,” Brenneman told the gathering, according
to a home video that his brother, Michael, posted on YouTube.
“I couldn’t imagine going through this without such a
supportive group of colleagues, such a generous group of
colleagues.”  In addition to his award, Brenneman was presented with a
framed photo of a crowd of Morgan Stanley employees posing in
Times Square in front of a congratulatory message on an
electronic news ticker on the headquarters building above.
Arranging the group picture briefly stopped traffic, his wife
said.  David Cameron Brenneman was born on April 10, 1976, in
Natick,  Massachusetts , to Ruth and Tom Brenneman, both teachers.
He ran track, played soccer and was captain of the basketball
team at Natick High School.  ‘Two Revolutions’  At Colby College in Waterville,  Maine , where he graduated
summa cum laude in 1998, Brenneman majored in international
relations and Russian. According to Colby’s  website , he gave a
“senior scholar” presentation in 1998 titled “The Evolution
of the Literary Myth of  St. Petersburg  Between Two
Revolutions.”  He received a master’s degree in Slavic studies from  Yale
University , in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , in 2000 and a law degree
four years later from  Harvard Law School  in Cambridge,
Massachusetts.  He joined the New York-based law firm of  Davis Polk &
Wardwell LLP  where, in 2006, he advised investment bank
Greenhill & Co. on the closing of an $80 million fund with
Silicon Alley Venture Partners LLC, according to an article in
the Daily Deal. Greenhill was founded in 1996 by Robert
Greenhill after he led Morgan Stanley into the mergers and
acquisitions advisory business.  Brenneman’s first job in finance was as a vice president at
Banc of America Securities, the investment-banking arm of Bank
of America Corp., now part of Bank of America Merrill Lynch. He
moved to Morgan Stanley in 2008.  With his wife, the former Mina Nedialkova, whom he met at
Yale in 1998, Brenneman had three children -- sons William, 8,
and Alexander, 6, and daughter Margaret, 3.  In addition to his parents, wife, children and brother,
survivors include a second brother, Matt Brenneman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  