-- Dead Dog in Reservoir Helps Drive Venezuelans to Bottled Water
-- B y   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v
-- 2013-09-04T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/dead-dog-in-reservoir-helps-drive-venezuelans-to-bottled-water.html
The carcass of a dead dog floats on
the lake that  supplies  tap water to 750,000 Venezuelans. Witch
doctor  Francisco Sanchez  has just dumped the previous night’s
sacrifice from a cliff, contaminating the resource that has
become more scarce than gasoline in Caracas.  The water from Lake Mariposa, polluted by sacrifices and
garbage from a local cult, is pumped to a 60-year-old treatment
plant that lacks the technology to make it safe for drinking,
said Fernando Morales, an environmental chemistry professor at
Simon Bolivar University in Caracas who has visited the site.  Eight kilometers (five miles) away from the lake, in
Caracas, sales of bottled water are booming, with families
paying the equivalent of $4.80 for a five-gallon jug, twice the
 price  of gasoline.  “The treatment process has not adapted to the steady
degradation of the water source,” Morales said in an interview
at the university campus Aug. 22. “I wouldn’t use this water at
home.”  The socialist revolution implemented by late President  Hugo Chavez  redirected funds from state-owned companies to reduce
poverty and widen access to education, health-care and housing.
It  built  422,340 homes in the past two years, while neglecting
the basic services in a country that has the world’s largest oil
deposits and eight times more fresh water per capita than
 France . Blackouts and water cuts have become weekly events in
Caracas, and when water does flow, few dare to drink.  Blackout  The water crisis is the latest hardship affecting
Venezuelans. When a main pipe  burst  last month, 60 percent of
the capital was without water for two days. Yesterday, more than
half of Venezuela was in the dark for several hours when a
transmission line accounting for 60 percent of the country’s
supply failed.  Shortages of imported goods ranging from sugar to beef are
stoking the world’s second highest inflation after  Iran . Real
wages fell 9 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier,
according to the central bank. The public-sector deficit will
finish the year at 11 percent of gross domestic product,
according to  Bank of America  Corp.  The deficit wasn’t used to finance investment in the water
industry. The budget of the Caracas water monopoly Hidrocapital
fell 49 percent to 25 million bolivars ($9.7 million) in 2010,
the  last  year the  Environment Ministry  published a detailed
report on spending plans.  The yield on benchmark sovereign bonds due 2027 rose 0.11
percentage point to 12.36 percent on Sept. 3. On average,
Venezuelan sovereign debt yields 12.48 percent, almost double
the average in  emerging markets , according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  Bigger Budget  A year before Chavez came to power, in 1998, state-owned
Hidrocapital had an annual budget of $250 million, according to
the company’s former vice president Norberto Bausson.  Environment Ministry spokesman Alejandro Franco and
Information Ministry spokesman, who asked not to be named citing
internal policy, declined to comment on the supply of tap water
in Caracas. A spokesman for President Nicolas Maduro, who can’t
be named because of internal policy, also declined to comment.  Greater Caracas’ population grew by 800,000 residents to
about 5.5 million since the last reservoir or processing plant
was built near the city in 1997, said Bausson, who now directs
water policy at the opposition alliance Democratic Unity Table.  “Not a drop of water has been added to Caracas’ supply
system in 15 years,” he said from his office last month. “The
network is falling apart.”  Water Jugs  Caracas residents pay 30 bolivars ($4.80) for five gallons
of filtered water delivered in jugs by trucks once a week. The
same volume of gasoline costs 14 bolivars, making it the
cheapest fuel in the world, according to data  compiled  by
Bloomberg.  In the meantime, witch doctor Sanchez, is left free to
practice his water-polluting rituals.  “No one is bothering me here at all,” Sanchez, 42, said
as he prepared a chicken for sacrifice later in the day. “I
moved here two years ago because I wanted to get deeper into
witchcraft. People come to worship every evening from the
city.”  The reservoir was last cleaned four years ago, unearthing
dozens of animal carcasses, said Inmer Parra, a councilor at the
Los Salias municipality, home to the lake.  Ten years ago, Mariposa was a sunbathing and sailing
destination. Today it is a haven for followers of  Santeria , a
mix of Christian and West African beliefs, which includes
worship of Guaicaipuro, a 16th century local American Indian
chief.  1,000 Valves  Caracas has to pump its water an average of 800 meters
(2,620 feet) upwards from the six reservoirs supplying the city.
An outmoded system of 86 pumping stations is operated by
manually turning about 1,000 valves, said Bausson. A breakdown
in any part causes supply cuts affecting at least one Caracas
borough every day.  “I have to get up at 4 a.m. to load the washing machine
with clothes,” said Bilenis Gonzalez, a 24 year-old babysitter
from Catia neighborhood in western Caracas. “Water stopped
coming to my house during the day-time over a year ago.”  President of Hidrocapital, Ernesto Paiva, and Water Vice
Minister Manuel Regino declined to be interviewed. Regino is
 Venezuela ’s fourth Water Vice Minister in 11 months.  “We can guarantee that the water which reaches your home
is 100 percent potable,” Hidrocapital  says  on its website.  Living Viruses  The utility’s water treatment is inadequate for the level
of contamination, said chemistry professor Morales. The chlorine
they use kills the organic bacteria, while leaving the viruses
in the water source unharmed, he said. Getting rid of potential
viruses would require molecular sieves and modern biological
monitoring systems, which don’t exist in Venezuela, Morales
said.  Hidrocapital stopped publishing results of sanitary tests
last year, according to Bausson, even as the law says the
information must be available publicly.  The company’s information center doesn’t have water quality
records, said press officer Mayyuly Castellanos. The water
quality department’s manager Linda Manzanero didn’t respond to a
phone message and e-mail seeking comment.  The majority of Caracas’ water comes from River Tuy, born
in the hills of Aragua state about 50 kilometers west of the
capital. Until the 1980s, the  valleys  through which Tuy runs
were an agricultural zone. Today, it’s an extension of the
Caracas urban sprawl, collecting the waste of 690,000 residents,
according to the 2011 Census.  New Dam  Instead of trying to clean Tuy, the government is building
a dam on River Cuira, which flows through a sparsely populated
national park and remains clean, to increase water supply to
Caracas, according to Morales. The work, which began in May
2011, has yet to finish, a year after it was scheduled to end.  Diverting water from Cuira won’t guarantee the water
quality, as much of the contamination occurs after the
processing plant, while water sits in old tanks and then travels
through rotting secondary pipelines to people’s homes, Bausson
said.  The water is provided by private plants from wells and
mountain streams in Los Teques area near Mariposa. Household
consumption of bottled water in Caracas grew 39 percent since
2010 to reach an average 125 liters a year in June, said Rosibel
Chacin, account manager at market research company Kantar
Worldpanel.  Price Controls  Price controls and dollar shortages are making the water
business increasingly difficult, said Kiara Santucci, owner of
 Zenda , the only Los Teques water company to sell five-gallon
jugs that are certified by the government.  Two weeks before the presidential elections on April 14,
the government forced Zenda to lower the price of the jug by 26
percent to 20 bolivars, as it tried to slow inflation that has
since quickened to 42.6 percent. A can of Coca Cola costs 15
bolivars in Caracas.  To stay afloat amid price controls companies are “cutting
corners” on filtering, Santucci said by telephone from Los
Teques Aug. 23. The government doesn’t test bottled water for
quality, Santucci said.  “I don’t trust the water, including the bottled variety,”
said Nancy  Santa Fe  from the Julian Blanco shantytown in eastern
Caracas, who was spending her 14th day without running water on
Aug. 23. “Even people in the slums are investing in in-house
filters to be on the safe side.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Bogota at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  