-- Delhaize Names Former Metro AG Executive Muller as Chief
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-09-04T07:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/delhaize-names-former-metro-ag-executive-muller-as-chief.html
Delhaize Group (DELB) , the owner of the
Food Lion supermarkets, named former  Metro AG (MEO)  manager Frans Muller as chief executive officer.  Muller will join the Belgian retailer on Oct. 14 and become
CEO on Nov. 8, Brussels-based Delhaize said today in a
statement. Pierre-Olivier Beckers, whom Muller will succeed,
will remain on the board of directors in a non-executive role.  Muller, 52, was a management board member at Dusseldorf,
Germany-based Metro from 2006 until early 2013, and ran the Cash
& Carry wholesale unit starting in 2008. Metro,  Germany ’s
largest retailer, said in March that group CEO Olaf Koch would
replace Muller as head of its biggest unit to simplify
management. Cash & Carry accounted for 47 percent of Metro’s
 revenue  in 2012, down from 51 percent in 2006, while the Media-Saturn electronics unit grew to 31 percent from 26 percent.  “Though Delhaize clearly saw something in the man -- they
flag his international record along with his understanding of
the supply chain -- his critics would accuse him of being
‘asleep at the wheel’ when he ran Cash & Carry,” Andrew Gwynn,
an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas said in e-mailed comments today.
It was “a business that did well in new markets, but struggled
to mature gracefully.”  Delhaize  dropped  as much as 5.5 percent to 46.98 euros at
9:13 a.m. in Brussels, the steepest intraday drop since May 29,
2012. That pared the stock’s gain this year to 55 percent.  American Departure  The retailer also said today that Roland Smith is resigning
as head of the company’s American unit. Smith will be available
as adviser to the CEO until the end of the year, Delhaize said.  Smith’s departure is a “big disappointment,” as he helped
Delhaize reverse “the declining margin trend in the U.S. with
far more aggressive cost-saving actions,” Exane’s Gwynn said.
There was speculation he was in the running for the company’s
top job, the analyst said.  Delhaize’s second-quarter  earnings,  which were released on
Aug. 8, showed that cost savings and better supplier terms are
outweighing price cuts in the U.S. The grocer narrowed its
forecast that day for the decline in full-year earnings,
predicting a drop of less than 3.5 percent in operating profit,
excluding currency effects, instead of a fall of 3.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  