-- Nasdaq Fixes Another Malfunction With Price Feed
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-09-04T22:15:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/direct-edge-halts-some-nasdaq-stocks-citing-feed-issue-correct-.html
For the second time in two weeks, a
malfunction in a price feed overseen by  Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc.
led to a trading halt of some of the companies it lists.  Nasdaq’s securities information processor had a “hardware
memory failure” at 11:35 a.m. New York time today, the company
said after a preliminary review. The issue was resolved six
minutes later. Direct Edge Holdings LLC, another U.S. exchange
operator, briefly stopped transactions for some Nasdaq-listed
shares, according to a statement.  Nasdaq halted trading in thousands of its stocks for three
hours on Aug. 22 out of concern a connectivity issue in the
feed, known by its initials SIP, would cause uneven
dissemination of prices in the market. The disruption
underscored how quickly the integrity of the U.S. market can be
subverted as orders to buy and sell shares are matched on more
than 50 exchanges and alternative electronic venues.  “We are not inspired by the fact that this has become a
recurring issue,”  Peter Sorrentino , a senior vice president who
helps manage about $15 billion at Huntington Asset Advisors,
said by phone from Cincinnati. “This type of thing does an
awful lot to kill investor confidence in the markets.”  Backup System  Last month’s market disruption snowballed when a software
flaw prevented Nasdaq’s backup program from kicking in. This
time, the affected system “successfully failed over,”
according to the company.  “Any piece of software, even if it’s run for 100 percent
for 10 years, there’s still flaws in it,” Nasdaq Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  said in an Aug. 29 interview
with  Bloomberg News . “Whatever you have, it’s a question of
what unique set of circumstances happen to reveal that.”  The Aug. 22 flaw was revealed when NYSE Arca, one of the
exchanges that sends price and trade data directly to the SIP,
sent more than 20 “connect and disconnect sequences” and a
stream of quotes for inaccurate stock symbols, according to a
Nasdaq summary released Aug. 29. The amount of data “vastly
exceeded” the capacity of the processor, Nasdaq said.  The SIP will manually block connection attempts the next
time it’s deluged with data, according to a separate statement
today based on a review by the 15-member committee that oversees
the feed. The group also plans to review today’s issue.  Tape C  Nasdaq and the  New York  Stock Exchange, the venues where
almost all U.S. companies go public, each operate SIPs that
receive quotes and trades from around the country and
disseminate them in three groups, known as tapes. NYSE operates
Tapes A and B, and Nasdaq runs Tape C.  Today’s disruption affected Tape C stocks with symbols from
“PC” to “SPZ,” Nasdaq said. The exchange operator’s  shares 
briefly erased gains following the issue, declining as much as
0.9 percent, before rising 0.7 percent to $30 as of 4 p.m. New
York time.  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Jo White plans to meet Sept. 12 with the heads of exchanges and
other self-regulatory organizations to discuss the Aug. 22 halt.  “As is our practice, we’re in contact with them and
monitoring developments,”  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said
regarding today’s Nasdaq outage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  