-- Dominion to Pay $1.6 Million for Offshore Virgina Project
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-09-05T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/dominion-wins-u-s-lease-for-wind-project-off-virgina.html
A  Dominion Resources Inc. (D)  unit was
the highest bidder to develop a wind energy project 23 miles off
the coast of  Virginia Beach , offering $1.6 million for a federal
lease to install turbines that could generate as much as 2
gigawatts of power.  Two companies bid for the rights to an area the Interior
Department, which held the auction yesterday. It was the
agency’s second and will be followed by similar offerings off
 Maryland  and  New Jersey  this year and next.  “Offshore wind has the potential to provide the largest,
scalable renewable resource for Virginia if it can be achieved
at reasonable cost to customers,” Mary C. Doswell, senior vice
president for alternative energy at Dominion, said in a
statement. Dominion Virginia Power is the unit of Dominion that
won the lease.  If confirmed as the lease winner, the company needs to meet
a series of deadlines to comply with terms of the auction.
Within five years it must submit a detailed construction and
operation plan, and it may be 10 years before the first turbine
is installed and operating, the company said.  The project will probably be built in phases after Dominion
studies how to cut costs in what is currently one of the most
expensive sources of power,  Jim Norvelle , the company’s
spokesman, said yesterday in an interview.  ’Expensive Endeavor’  The total levelized system cost without subsidies for an
offshore project entering service in 2018 is $221.50 a megawatt-hour, more than the $144.30 for solar photovoltaic and more than
double the $86.60 for onshore wind and $65.60 for advanced
combined cycle natural gas-fired projects, according to the  U.S.
Energy Information Administration .  “We have to make sure the cost becomes much more
reasonable going forward,” Norvelle said. “This is going to be
a very expensive endeavor.”  Dominion couldn’t pass up the opportunity, despite the
higher cost. The company is engaged in research projects aimed
at lowering the cost of the offshore wind power, said Norvelle.  “It’s too good of an energy resource for us not to do
this,” he said.  Virginia’s coast is ideal for wind, its Governor  Bob McDonnell  said yesterday in a statement.  “We must utilize all of our energy resources, from wind to
oil to gas to coal to nuclear, to create good jobs for our
people and provide greater  energy security  for our country,”
McDonnell said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  