-- Dubai Stocks Decline 13% From 2013-High as Rally Halts on Syria
-- B y   C l a u d i a   M a e d l e r   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-09-04T14:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/dubai-stocks-lead-gulf-retreat-as-syria-concern-halts-2013-rally.html
Dubai’s benchmark stock index fell
more than 10 percent from its 2013 high as the prospect of a
military strike against Syria weighed on investor sentiment in
the oil-rich Persian Gulf.  The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  dropped 3.7 percent, making it the
biggest decliner among 94 benchmarks tracked by Bloomberg
globally, to close at 2,396.79 in Dubai. The measure has plunged
13 percent from its Aug. 25 high, entering the so-called
correction today.  Dubai Investments PJSC (DIC) , which holds stakes in
more than 40 businesses, tumbled 5.3 percent, while discount
carrier  Air Arabia PJSC (AIRARABI)  fell for a third day.  U.S. President Barack Obama yesterday won support from two
top House Republicans for military action against Syria as he
seeks Congressional approval for his plan to punish the regime
of President Bashar al-Assad for alleged use of chemical
weapons. Shares in Dubai are the best performing benchmark in
the world this year after Ghana as the Persian Gulf business
hub’s economy recovers from the global financial crisis.  “The 50 percent year-to-date rally adding to the
uncertainty of the Syria issue will definitely drive investors
to lighten up and reduce exposure to local stock market until
things are clearer,” Tariq Qaqish, a Dubai-based  fund manager 
at Al Mal Capital PSC, said in an e-mail.  The Middle East accounted for about 35 percent of global
crude production in the first quarter of this year, according to
the International Energy Agency. Syria borders Iraq, the biggest
producer after  Saudi Arabia  in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries. Dubai and  Abu Dhabi  are part of the United
Arab Emirates, the fourth-biggest OPEC producer.  Syria Vote  The world’s five worst performing benchmarks were from the
Persian Gulf today. Oman’s gauge lost 2.9 percent, Kuwait’s
dropped 2.6 percent, Abu Dhabi’s fell 2.3 percent and Saudi
Arabia’s Tadawul All Share Index lost 2.2 percent. Qatar’s Index
retreated 1.9 percent, while Bahrain’s All Share Index was
little changed.  The U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee is scheduled to
vote today on a use-of-force resolution that sets a 90-day limit
on military action. President  Vladimir Putin  said Russia will
only consider supporting a United Nations resolution authorizing
military strikes if there’s conclusive proof it used chemical
weapons.  Dubai Investments declined to 1.61 dirhams, while  Air
Arabia  lost 6.2 percent to 1.22 dirhams.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  