-- Dubai Stocks Most Volatile in World as Syria Risk Spurs Selloff
-- B y   S a m u e l   P o t t e r
-- 2013-09-04T20:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/dubai-stocks-most-volatile-in-world-as-syria-risk-spurs-selloff.html
Dubai’s stocks posted the  biggest
swings  in the world in the past month as concern the U.S. is
moving closer to a military strike against  Syria  led investors
to exit this year’s best-performing index.  The DFM General Index’s 30-day volatility, a measure of
fluctuations in Dubai’s equities gauge, rose to 32.6 yesterday,
the highest since April 2012 and the most among 72 indexes
tracked by Bloomberg. That’s one point above the  Philippines  and
 Japan  and marks the biggest spread in more than three years to
the MSCI ACWI Index of emerging and developed-world stocks.  The benchmark index in Dubai, one of seven sheikhdoms that
make up the  United Arab Emirates , dropped 13 percent since
reaching a five-year high on Aug. 25 as U.S. President  Barack
Obama  called for military intervention in Syria over a chemical
attack. The absence of unrest in Dubai as uprisings swept
through the  Middle East  since 2011 earned the emirate safe-haven
status among investors, who drove the index up more than any
benchmark in the 50 largest equity markets in 2013. The DFM fell
3.7 percent yesterday, the world’s steepest drop.  “Market participants were caught a little by surprise by
the U.S. move after the chemical attack,” Sebastien Henin, a
portfolio manager at The National Investor, said by phone from
 Abu Dhabi  yesterday. “They were not expecting any Western
involvement in a conflict that’s two years old.”  U.S. Involvement  Dubai’s index rallied 69 percent this year through Aug. 25
before shares succumbed to selling amid concern the fallout from
any Syria escalation will damp a recovery in tourism and trade,
the main drivers of economic growth. Higher volatility means an
asset or index can swing dramatically in a short period,
increasing the potential for unexpected losses.  Obama won support this week from two top  House Republicans 
for military action against Syria. He’s seeking Congressional
approval for a plan to punish the regime of President Bashar al-Assad for alleged use of chemical weapons in an Aug. 21 attack
that killed more than 1,400 people.  “The volatility really spiked in the past 10 days, as the
talk of a Western strike on Syria emerged,” Mahdi Mattar, Abu
Dhabi-based chief executive officer of Finance House Capital,
said by e-mail yesterday. “The market is one of the best
performing in the world, and speculative investors provide most
of the liquidity.”  ‘Hot Money’  Deyaar Development (DEYAAR) , the biggest gainer on Dubai’s benchmark
index this quarter with a 50 percent rally, saw its 10-day price
swings soar to 131 yesterday, the highest since December 2009.
The shares fell 3.5 percent to 54.9 fils (15 U.S. cents). Deyaar
and  Union Properties PJSC (UPP)  together accounted for more than 40
percent of volumes on the DFM so far this month, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Union Properties, whose shares closed at 60 fils yesterday,
posted 10-day price swings of 128, also near the highest in
almost four years. The volatility reading for  Emaar Properties
PJSC (EMAAR) , Dubai’s biggest stock, was less than half that at 57.
Shares of Emaar, which developed the world’s tallest tower, fell
3.1 percent yesterday. The MSCI upgraded the U.A.E. to emerging-market status in June.  “Retail investors have been very active in the summer, and
that’s something new,” Henin said. “Hot money came in during
August targeting high-beta names and penny stocks. That cash is
fast to go in and fast to leave.”  Economic Rebound  Before Syria risks worsened, Dubai’s index had proven
resilient to this year’s selloff of emerging-market assets,
which pushed the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index down 11 percent.
Shares in the DFM trade at 11.4 times projected 12-month
earnings, compared with a multiple of 10 for the MSCI gauge,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The volatility will continue, but the uptrend will not
disappear,” Henin said. “What is happening isn’t
insignificant, but the macro story across the region is
intact.”  Wholesale and retail trade account for almost a third of
Dubai’s economy, which grew at the fastest pace in five years in
2012 and is set to expand by 4.6 percent on average through
2015, according to government estimates. That’s more than twice
as fast as the prior four years.  The emirate’s real-estate industry is also recovering from
one of the world’s worst property crashes triggered by the 2008
global credit crisis. A growing population and improving economy
are driving the housing rebound rather than the type of
speculation that fueled a boom in  home prices  before 2008,
Standard Chartered Plc said in a report yesterday. Apartment
prices have climbed 38 percent in 12 months, it said.  “Near term, we could continue to see volatility based on
news headlines,” Amer Khan, a director at Shuaa Asset
Management, said by e-mail yesterday. “Over the medium term,
the U.A.E.’s fundamentals remain strong and it should eventually
be reflected in valuations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Potter in Dubai at 
 spotter33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  