-- E-House Jumps on Growth Policy as Yingli Gains: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-09-04T20:41:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/e-house-jumps-on-growth-policy-as-yingli-gains-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks rose for a second day
in New York, led by  E-House China Holdings Ltd. (EJ) , after President
Xi Jinping said the government is committed to solving
fundamental problems with the economy.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. added 0.7 percent to 98.13 yesterday,
the highest level in seven months. Real-estate brokerage E-House
surged 28 percent as property information website  SouFun
Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  soared to a record in a five-day rally.  Yingli
Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE)  and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  gained as Deutsche
Bank AG said the two panel makers may benefit from growth in the
U.S. solar market over the next few years.  Chinese President Xi said the nation would “rather bring
down the growth rate” to allow it to adjust the structure of
the world’s second-largest economy in a written interview
yesterday, according to a transcript distributed by the official
Xinhua News Agency. Data this week showed manufacturing
strengthened last month, adding to signs that  China  will meet
its 7.5 percent expansion target this year, while China’s new
home prices jumped by the most since December.  “They want to send the signal that they want to reform but
they don’t want to hurt growth,”  Michael Wang , an emerging-markets strategist at Amiya Capital LLP in London, said by phone
yesterday. “Over the last month and a half, they’ve loosened
controls on the property sector. China’s home prices have
accelerated again, quite strongly.”  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 1.7 percent to a
three-month high of $36.85. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
gained 0.8 percent as a Senate panel voted to authorize a
limited military operation in Syria and the  Federal Reserve  said
the economy maintained a “modest to moderate” pace of growth.  Home Prices  E-House’s American depositary receipts surged to $7.93, the
highest level since October 2011. Trading volume was almost 10
times the three-month average, data compiled by Bloomberg
showed. The ADRs traded 14.8 times its 12-month forward profit,
compared with a multiple was 15.6 last September.  SouFun, owner of China’s biggest real estate information
website, rose 6.3 percent to a record $50.07 in  New York , after
 soaring  13 percent the previous day. Its five-day rally was the
longest rising streak in two months.  New home prices in China jumped 8.6 percent in August, the
most since December, Beijing-based SouFun said in an e-mailed
statement Sept. 2 after a survey of 100 cities.  E-House’s gains “could be just a catch-up” after SouFun’s
“significant” advance a day earlier, Ella Ji, an analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co. in New York, said by e-mail yesterday. She has
a buy equivalent rating on E-House with a price target of $8.  ‘Extremely Undervalued’  E-House’s stock “is extremely undervalued,” Eric Brock, a
portfolio manager at Clough Capital Partners in  Boston , said by
e-mail yesterday. “We wouldn’t be surprised if it went
private.”  Baoding, China-based Yingli, the world’s biggest solar-panel maker, soared 13 percent to $5.29, the highest price since
February 2012.  Trina Solar , China’s third-largest panel
manufacturer, climbed 5.1 percent to $10.75, also the highest
level since February 2012.  Deutsche Bank analyst Vishal Shah said he expects
installation growth of 6 gigawatts this year and 8 gigawatts in
2014, according to a note to clients yesterday.  LDK Solar Co., the second biggest maker of solar wafers,
jumped 6.8 percent to $1.58, rallying the most in three weeks.  The company, based in Xinyu, China, said it is in talks
with noteholders of its 2014 securities to delay interest
payments that were due on Aug. 28.  Noah Holdings Ltd. (NOAH) , a Shanghai-based company selling
wealth-management products for commissions, advanced 7.7 percent
to $13.94, increasing the most in three weeks.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises  Index (HSCEI)  slipped 0.2 percent
to 10,233.03, sliding for the first time in three days. The
Shanghai Composite Index added 0.2 percent to 2,127.62 in its
fourth day of advances.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  