-- The Moral Case for a Syria Strike
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2013-09-04T15:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/the-moral-case-for-a-syria-strike.html
Beyond a reasonable doubt, the
forces of Syria’s Bashar al-Assad used chemical weapons on a
large scale and should be punished. That’s where I end up. But
the case isn’t cut and dried.  Sometimes, standing on principle doesn’t get you very far.
The problem is, which principle? The norm forbidding use of
chemical weapons, the norm of restraint in use of military force
and the norm of upholding international law are in conflict. In
addition, predicting the results of action (or inaction) is a
matter of weighing probabilities, not certainties.  If you’re sure you know what’s right in this case, you
haven’t thought it through. I don’t criticize U.S. President
 Barack Obama  for being oppressed by these complexities, as he
seems to be: Better that than a leader who thinks it’s all so
simple. I wish he would make decisions faster and pitch a more
confident case for the course he has chosen -- you can be
careful without dithering -- but he’s not wrong to see this as a
difficult choice.  Options have narrowed. Maybe there was a case for
intervening to overthrow Assad at the outset, but his domestic
enemies are no longer clearly preferable, and the U.S. lacks the
will and the means to reshape a postwar Syria. The choice is
between a limited punishment strike or softer censure such as
jawboning, sanctions and indictment of Assad under international
law.  Expressing Disgust  Choosing not to use force would weaken the norm against
chemical weapons. Those milder ways of expressing disgust would
still be available, so the norm wouldn’t be destroyed -- but it
would be eroded. Preventing that is both morally right and
valuable to the U.S. and the world. But how valuable? And at
what cost?  The wider the support for any action, the more effective it
would be in upholding the norm. In this case, time isn’t
critical, so Obama (doubtful as one may be about his motives) is
right to look for the broadest possible backing at home and
abroad.  It’s a shame that Russia and  China  won’t go along -- but
their calculations are so transparently cynical that their
refusal has no moral force. Their reflexive noncooperation
merely weakens the conflicting international-law norm. In this
case, their objections should be disdained and dismissed.  Yet you can’t dismiss the lack of support among U.S. allies
or among U.S. citizens. If the U.K. isn’t willing to join
airstrikes against Assad, that in itself undermines the
chemical-weapons taboo. The same would be true for punitive
attacks that weren’t supported in the  U.S. Congress  or across
the country. Remember, the aim isn’t just to damage Assad
militarily, which the U.S. could do without allies or
congressional approval, but to express a moral consensus. If
that consensus turns out not to exist -- or if it exists in
theory but is spineless in practice -- the case for action
falters. We’ll have discovered that the taboo against chemical
weapons was so much posturing.  Obama says he’s made his decision and has the right to act
regardless of what Congress decides. Striking  Syria  even if
Congress says no would be a remarkable gamble. It would also be
less potent (because the norm would have been eroded in any
event) and on balance unwise. Does that mean he was wrong to ask
for authorization? Again, no. The more backing Obama can muster,
the stronger the affirmation -- and that’s what counts.  What about U.S. credibility? Most of those urging an attack
say it’s on the line. They have a point -- credibility matters,
to be sure -- but they’re making too much of it. Obama was wrong
to say that chemical weapons were a “red line” in Syria
without being sure he meant it. Making threats you aren’t ready
to carry out is dumb. He did say it, and failing to follow
through would therefore cost something. But much of the damage
is done. Obama draws red lines first, then thinks about whether
to enforce them. This knowledge can’t be unlearned.  Challenging Prospect  Would failing to attack Syria make Obama’s promise to stop
 Iran  getting nukes less credible? I doubt it. An Iran with
nuclear weapons is vastly more threatening to U.S. interests
than a Syria willing to use chemical weapons on its own people,
and deterring it is a far more challenging prospect. The cases
are too different. The credibility argument counts for
something, as I say, but it’s exaggerated.  No, the core of the case for action, so long as Obama can
win sufficient support, lies in upholding the moral prohibition.
And the valid case against turns not on legality or credibility
but on the risk of unintended consequences.  All being well, airstrikes could achieve their goal at
little cost, deflect Assad from using chemical weapons again and
make other morally bankrupt regimes think twice. But they would
also cause collateral damage and kill innocent civilians. It’s
conceivable that Assad would reap a propaganda advantage. He
could start using chemical weapons even more aggressively,
daring the U.S. to respond again -- knowing that escalation
might carry Obama into an outright war the U.S. doesn’t want to
fight.  There could be terrorist retaliation against the U.S.
Whether the U.S. intends it or not, airstrikes might swing the
civil war against Assad and lead his regime to collapse -- with
results that would be good or bad for most Syrians, and for the
U.S. and its allies, depending on who takes over.  I defy you to consider those possibilities and say the case
for action is open and shut. Assad’s use of chemical weapons
doesn’t present a clear and present danger to the U.S.; let’s
not pretend otherwise. Everything comes down to the importance
of the chemical-weapons taboo. Are these weapons really so vile,
as governments have been saying for more than a century, that
their use should be met, where feasible, with force? Or will
they be something we learn to accept, just one more horror of
war, along with all the others we deplore yet find ways to
tolerate?  It’s a close call. I think the taboo is worth defending,
and the prize worth the risk. I hope Congress agrees.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  ccrook5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 