-- E*Trade Rises to Highest in 2 Years on Dividend: New York Mover
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-09-04T21:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/e-trade-gains-to-highest-in-2-years-on-dividend-new-york-mover.html
E*Trade Financial Corp. (ETFC)  rose to the
highest level in two years after the online brokerage said its
banking subsidiary will pay a $100 million dividend to the
parent company and plans to make similar payments every quarter.  E*Trade gained 8.1 percent to close at $15.71 in New York
for the biggest single-day gain since August 2011. The shares
reached the highest level since July 2011.  “Today’s announcement reflects E*Trade’s significant
progress on our capital plan, including de-risking and de-leveraging the balance sheet,” Matthew Audette, the company’s
chief financial officer, said in a statement. “We look forward
to building on this initial distribution over the coming
quarters.”  E*Trade Bank received regulatory approval to pay the
dividend to the parent this month, according to the statement.
The company intends to seek approval for similar payments every
quarter “over the near term,” it said in the statement.  New York-based E*Trade didn’t say what it will do with the
dividend.  E*Trade posted more than $3 billion of losses related to
bad mortgages following the collapse of the subprime market. The
brokerage received a $2.55 billion cash injection in 2007 from
Chicago-based hedge fund Citadel LLC, which this year sold off
its stake after E*Trade rejected pressure to find buyers.  “This will free them up to eventually pay down debt and
de-leverage over time,” Chris Allen, an analyst at  Evercore
Partners Inc. (EVR)  who has an equalweight rating on E*Trade, said in
a phone interview. “You de-lever and you lower your interest
expense, it should increase your earnings power and capital
generation over the longer term. This is a next step in a series
of positive steps we’ve seen recently.”  Standard & Poor’s revised its outlook to positive from
stable today, citing the dividend news.  E*Trade shares have  climbed  76 percent this year. They are
still down 94 percent from their 2007 peak.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in New York at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  