-- Lebanon Delays Energy Bidding to Dec. 10 Amid Internal Disputes
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-09-04T13:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/lebanon-delays-energy-bidding-to-dec-10-amid-internal-disputes.html
Lebanon delayed its first auction of
exploration licenses for offshore oil and natural gas after the
government failed to vote on decrees needed to start the bidding
process, Energy Minister Gebran Bassil said.  The bid round, postponed to Dec. 10 from Nov. 4, may be
delayed again if the cabinet doesn’t vote for the decrees by
Oct. 2, Bassil said in a press conference in  Beirut  today. A
meeting between the Energy Minister and caretaker Prime Minister
Najib Mikati yesterday failed to approve a special government
session for the necessary vote.  International companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Total
SA (FP)  have pre-qualified to bid for energy exploration in the
Mediterranean Sea off Lebanon’s coast, near Israeli waters where
 Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  has discovered commercial quantities of gas.
Lebanon, wracked by sporadic violence as the civil war in
negihboring  Syria  spills over, seeks revenue to help reduce its
$56 billion public debt, the highest as a share of annual
economic output among 22 Arab nations at 135 percent of gross
domestic product.  “This is a big loss for Lebanon,” Bassil said. “This
delay gives an advantage to  Israel ,”  which is seeking export
markets for its gas and benefits from hold-ups in the
development of Lebanon’s energy resources, Bassil said.  If a vote on the decrees is held by Oct. 2, the government
can proceed with its plan to sign contracts by March 31, 2014,
he said. The caretaker government has no legal right to issue
decrees.  Contested Areas  Lebanon has opened offshore blocks 1, 4, 5, 6 and 9 for
exploration, and may make available a total of 10 blocks,
including some in areas contested by neighboring Israel, Bassil
said. The two nations haven’t defined their maritime border.  The government needs to approve decrees that would
demarcate the blocks to be explored, to establish production-sharing contracts and specify tender protocols, Assem Abou Ibrahim, president of the Petroleum Authority said in a May 2
interview. Lebanon passed an oil law in 2010 and appointed a
six-member petroleum board in November  Companies which prequalified to bid as operators are
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Eni SpA (ENI) ,  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC) ,  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR3) ,  Statoil ASA (STL) , A.P.
Moeller-Maersk A/S,  Repsol SA (REP) ,  Inpex Corp. (1605)  and Petroliam
Nasional Bhd, as well as Exxon and Total, according to the
energy ministry’s website.  Among the 34 companies that pre-qualified as non-operators
are  Genel Energy Plc (GENL) ,  Suncor Energy Inc (SU) ,  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) ,
 Santos Ltd. (STO) ,  OMV AG (OMV) , INA Industrija Nafte DD,  GDF Suez (GSZ) , MOL
Hungarian Oil and Gas Plc,  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE) ,  Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR) ,
Dana Petroleum Plc, Japex Corp., Mitsui E&P Middle East BV,
 Korea Gas Corp. (036460) , Lukoil Overseas Lebanon BV,  Rosneft OAO (ROSN) , TPAO
Turkiye Petrolleri AO, Crescent Petroleum Co.,  Dana Gas PJSC (DANA) ,
and  Dragon Oil Plc (DGO) , the ministry said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  