-- EMC to Unveil Products Challenging Cloud-Storage Sellers
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-09-04T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/emc-to-unveil-products-challenging-cloud-storage-sellers.html
EMC Corp. (EMC)  said it’s introducing new
products that will be offered via a faster and more simplified
buying process, challenging the appeal of Web-based computing
services from  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and other cloud providers.  The product initiative, called Project Nile, will introduce
machines in the first half of next year, Jeremy Burton,
executive vice president at EMC, said in an interview. Customers
can choose storage for files, databases or the Web and receive a
complete system within 48 hours, he said.  Companies are looking for ways to store data generated by
Internet applications that run transactions, store content and
analyze data. While providers such as Amazon and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
offer online services for such tasks without complex management,
there hasn’t been a product for customers seeking to keep their
data in-house along with the easy ordering and management
benefits of Web-based services, according to Richard Villars, an
analyst at market-research firm IDC.  “Cloud providers have given customers scale, and they can
pick and choose across four different types of storage, without
having to manage four different incompatible systems,” Villars
said. “EMC is making a bet they can provide the same kind of
system.”  Burton said EMC isn’t losing sales to cloud providers right
now. While that’s true, existing customers are opting for
Internet-based storage as they build new applications, putting
EMC at risk of losing out on growth, Villars said.  EMC, based in Hopkinton,  Massachusetts , is offering the new
types of storage to boost sales as demand slows for its
traditional and priciest products. The company said in March
that revenue will rise by at least 8 percent annually through
2016.  Market Growth  The high-end of the market will only grow 1 percent to 3
percent a year, EMC forecast, while the emerging market for
newer types of storage will increase more than 25 percent in the
same period.  Burton said the new range of products will cost customers
40 percent to 60 percent less than public cloud options. Villars
said the jury is still out on that figure, given that the new
machines aren’t even on sale yet.  “Whether they can provide at same price point, they’ve got
to prove that, and that will take a number of years,” Villars
said. “Can they provide the same kind of agility and
flexibility? That’s what they’re trying to solve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  