-- Emerging Nations Save $2.9 Trillion Reserves in Rout
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s ,   Y e   X i e   a n d   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-09-04T16:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/emerging-nations-save-2-9-trillion-reserves-in-rout-currencies.html
Developing nations from Brazil to
 India  are preserving a record $2.9 trillion of foreign reserves
and opting instead to raise  interest rates  and restrict imports
to stem the worst rout in their currencies in five years.  Foreign  reserves  of the 12 biggest  emerging markets ,
excluding  China  and countries with pegged currencies, fell 1.6
percent this year compared with an 11 percent slump after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The 20 most-traded emerging-market currencies
have  weakened  8 percent in 2013 as the  Federal Reserve ’s
potential paring of stimulus lures away capital.  After quadrupling reserves over the past decade, developing
nations are protecting their stockpiles as trade and budget
deficits heighten their vulnerability to credit-rating cuts.
Brazil and  Indonesia  boosted key interest rates last month to
buoy the real and rupiah, while India is increasing money-market
rates to try to support the rupee as growth slows. Central banks
should draw on stockpiles only once currencies have depreciated
enough to adjust for the trade and budget gaps, according to
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.  “If fundamentals are going against you, it’s not credible
to defend a currency level -- investors would rush for the exit
when they see the reserves depleting,” said Claire Dissaux,
managing director of global economics and strategy at Millennium
Global Investment in  London . “The central banks are taking the
right measures, allowing the currencies to adjust.”  ‘Fragile Five’  The South African rand, real, rupee, rupiah and lira,
dubbed the “fragile five” by Morgan Stanley strategists last
month because of their reliance on foreign capital for financing
needs, fell the most among peers this year, losing as much as 19
percent.  Foreign reserves in the 12 developing nations including
 Russia ,  Taiwan , South Korea,  Brazil  and India, declined to $2.9
trillion as of Aug. 28, from $2.95 trillion on Dec. 31 and an
all-time high of $2.97 trillion in May, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The holdings increased from $722 billion in
2002.  The figures don’t reflect the valuation change of the
securities held in the reserves. China, which holds $3.5
trillion as the world’s largest reserve holder, is excluded to
limit its outsized impact.  In the three months starting September 2008, reserves
dropped 11 percent as Lehman’s collapse sent the real down 29
percent and the rupee 12 percent. India’s  stockpile  declined 16
percent during the period, while  Brazil  spent more than $14
billion in reserves in six months starting October, central bank
data show.  ‘Contagion Potential’  “Often, on the day of the intervention or its
announcement, a currency will get a small bounce upward,”
Bluford Putnam, chief economist at CME Group Inc., wrote in an
Aug. 28 research report. “For the longer-term, however, market
participants often return to a focus on the basic issues of
rising risks and contagion potential.”  Putnam said “aggressive” short-term interest-rate
increases that “dramatically” raise the costs of going short a
currency can work to stem an exchange-rate slide.  The Turkish and Indian central banks have developed tools
to fend off  market volatility  while keeping their benchmark
rates unchanged.  Turkey  adjusts rates daily and Governor Erdem Basci promised more “surprise” tools to defend the lira while
vowing to keep rates unchanged this year. Since July, India has
curbed currency-derivatives trading, restricted cash supply,
limited outflows from locals and asked foreign investors to
prove they aren’t speculating on the rupee.  Records Lows  India’s steps failed to prevent its currency from touching
a record low of 68.845 per dollar on Aug. 28. The lira tumbled
to an unprecedented 2.0730 the same day.  The rupee plummeted 8.1 percent in August, the biggest loss
since 1992 and the steepest among 78 global currencies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The lira plunged 5.1
percent, the rand dropped 4.1 percent, the real fell 4.6 percent
and the rupiah sank 5.9 percent, the data show.  The Indian currency rose 0.9 percent 67.0900 per dollar as
of 12:36 p.m. in  New York  today, while its Indonesian
counterpart gained 0.5 percent to 11,125 versus the greenback.
 South Africa ’s rand appreciated 1.1 percent to 10.2211 per
dollar, while the Turkish lira strengthened 0.2 percent to
2.0546.  Interest-rate swaps  show investors expect South Africa and
India’s benchmark rate will increase by at least 0.25 percentage
point, or 25 basis points, by year-end, according to data
compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc. In Brazil, policy makers are
forecast to raise the key rate by 100 basis points to 10
percent, and Turkey will lift the benchmark one-week repurchase
rate by 200 basis points to 6.5 percent, the data show.  Targeted Measures  Policy makers are deploying reserves through targeted
measures, according to ING Groep NV. Between January 2009 and
June 2013, Brazil, Indonesia and South Africa recorded a net $50
billion of portfolio inflows while Turkey received about $30
billion, the Dutch bank estimates. Foreign-currency stockpiles
help protect the countries from a sudden exit of funds,
according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  Brazil’s monetary authority announced a $60 billion program
on Aug. 22, using currency swaps and loan facilities to
alleviate the dollar shortage in the futures market, where
Nomura says most of the trading is done. Turkey’s central bank
has sold $8.75 billion at foreign-currency auctions since
starting the sales on June 11. Indonesia extended a bilateral
swap deal on Aug. 29 with the  Bank of Japan  valued at $12
billion that will allow the two nations to borrow from each
other’s foreign-exchange reserves.  India’s central bank said on Aug. 28 it will sell dollars
to state-run oil importers through swap agreements. Refiners are
the largest buyers of foreign-exchange in the nation, which
depends on imports for 80 percent of its oil needs.  ‘Hot Topic’  “Reserve adequacy is a hot topic for the market right
now,”  Chris Turner , the head of currency strategy at ING in
London, wrote in an Aug. 30 report. Relative to portfolio
inflows, “Brazil stands out with 800 percent coverage by
foreign-exchange reserves, while Turkey, Indonesia and South
Africa’s reserve coverage looks low by international
standards.”  Foreign reserves in emerging markets swelled as policy
makers bought the greenback to limit appreciation of their
currencies and shield exporters as the Fed bought $2.3 trillion
of debt from December 2008 to June 2011 and is currently
purchasing $85 billion worth of bonds a month.  More Declines  Central banks can change tack once exchange rates have
adjusted for their nations’ deficits, according to Toronto-based
CIBC. The rupee has probably weakened as much as it should,
while the rupiah needs to fall further after intervention
earlier this year limited the drop, said  Patrick Bennett , a
strategist at CIBC, said in an Aug. 30 telephone interview from
Hong Kong.  Indonesia’s failure to bolster the rupiah after burning
through 19 percent of its holdings this year underscores the
limitation of central bank intervention in the $4 trillion
foreign-exchange market.  “Policy makers are doing the right thing by staying away
from intervention as the depreciating currencies are those that
are facing current-account or budget deficits,” Bennett said.
“Allowing  currency depreciation  is like lifting a pressure
valve, which allows required adjustment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  