-- Emerging-Market Growth Rebounds From Four-Year Low: HSBC
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-09-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/emerging-market-growth-rebounds-from-four-year-low-hsbc.html
Emerging-market economic growth
recovered in August from the first contraction since 2009 as
business conditions improved in China and Russia,  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  said, citing a survey of  purchasing managers .  The HSBC  Emerging Markets  Index rose to 50.7 from 49.5 in
July, when it contracted the first time since April 2009, HSBC
said today in a report. It was the third-lowest reading in more
than four years, the bank said. A value above 50 indicates
expansion and below 50 signals contraction. The index is
compiled by London-based Markit Economics and tracks conditions
at more than 5,000 companies.  Investors sold riskier emerging-market assets after the
U.S. Federal Reserve signaled it may begin to withdraw stimulus
measures, threatening to derail a recovery. Output rebounded in
China and Russia, two of the four largest emerging markets, the
so-called BRIC economies, while it continued to drop in Brazil
and  India .  “Emerging market activity turned positive again in August,
after losing traction in every month since April, and
experiencing outright contraction in July,” Murat Ulgen, HSBC’s
London-based chief economist for central and eastern Europe and
sub-Saharan Africa, wrote in the report. “This was due to
modest improvements in business conditions in China and Russia,
helping to offset a steep deterioration in India and a marginal
worsening in Brazil.”  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has fallen 6.7 percent in
the past three months, compared with a 1.4 percent gain for the
 S&P 500 .  The HSBC Emerging Markets Future Output Index, which gauges
company executives’ expectations for output in a year, rose for
a second month to its highest since March, led by  Brazil , HSBC
said. Among the BRIC nations, the reading was the lowest for
China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  