-- Emerging Stocks Rise as Rupee Surges From Near Record Low
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-09-04T21:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/emerging-stocks-rise-led-by-indian-shares-as-indonesia-slumps.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, led by
India, as the rupee jumped from near a record low after the
central bank eased overseas borrowing rules.  Persian Gulf  shares
sank on concern the U.S. is close to a strike against Syria.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.4 percent to
937.79. Indian shares surged the most in Asia and the rupee
erased losses on speculation the monetary authority sold
dollars. Brazil’s Ibovespa rebounded as cosmetics maker Natura
Cosmeticos SA led gains in consumer companies. Dubai’s DFM
General Index dropped 3.7 percent, the most among the 94 world
gauges tracked by Bloomberg, while benchmark equity measures in
Kuwait,  Abu Dhabi (ADSMI)  and  Saudi Arabia  slid more than 2.1 percent.  The  Reserve Bank  of India, under new governor  Raghuram
Rajan , allowed companies to borrow from foreign shareholders,
according to a statement today. The U.S. Senate Foreign
Relations Committee voted to authorize President  Barack Obama  to
conduct a limited U.S. military operation in Syria, the first
step toward congressional endorsement of the effort.  “Currency risk is an additional factor with emerging
markets; when central banks come back in to restore order, that
 risk premium  will go away,” Kevin Caron, a Florham Park, New
Jersey-based market strategist at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which
oversees about $150 billion, said by phone. “There’s been a
little bit more  risk aversion  priced into the markets. Clearly,
 Syria  is contributing to a little bit more investor angst.”  Investors also watched the  Federal Reserve ’s Beige Book for
clues on how soon the central bank will begin tapering stimulus.
Americans spending more on cars and housing helped the economy
maintain a “modest to moderate” pace of expansion from early
July through late August, even as borrowing costs increased, the
Fed said today.  Economic Stimulus  “This simply points the way towards confirming we’re going
to have tapering,” Clement Miller, an investment strategist at
Wilmington Trust Investment Advisors Inc., which manages about
$20 billion in assets, said by phone from Baltimore. “To a
large extent, tapering has already been built into market
expectations regarding  emerging markets .”  All  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose
today, led by health-care shares. The gauge of developing
nations trimmed this year’s plunge to 11 percent, compared with
a 12 percent advance for a measure of developed markets.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund rose 1.8 percent to $38.94. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
slid 5.9 percent to 26.68.  Brazil, Russia  Brazil’s Ibovespa added 0.2 percent, after slumping as much
as 1 percent earlier, amid speculation that policy makers will
refrain from speeding up the pace of interest-rate increases.
Natura climbed 3.1 percent.  The Micex Index rose for a third day, led by  OAO Gazprom. (OGZD) 
Russia’s central bank Chairman  Elvira Nabiullina  signaled policy
makers may embark on an easing cycle for the first time in
almost two years. Russia failed to raise as much money as
planned at a government bond auction, joining nations from India
to Taiwan in missing borrowing targets as investors keep away
from emerging-market assets.  The S&P BSE Sensex added 1.8 percent as  Reliance Industries
Ltd. (RIL) , which this week began marketing a $1.75 billion-equivalent
loan, rose 2.2 percent after falling the most in more than four
years yesterday. The rupee advanced 1 percent to 67.09 per
dollar in Mumbai, prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg
show. It fell as much as 1.3 percent to 68.62 earlier.  Persian Gulf  Dubai’s benchmark stock index fell more than 10 percent
from its 2013 high as the prospect of a military strike against
Syria weighed on investor sentiment in the oil-rich Persian
Gulf. Dubai Investments PJSC, which holds stakes in more than 40
businesses, tumbled 5.3 percent, while discount carrier Air
Arabia PJSC fell for a third day.  Some of the world’s worst performing benchmarks were from
the Persian Gulf today. Oman’s gauge lost 2.9 percent, Kuwait’s
dropped 2.6 percent,  Abu Dhabi ’s fell 2.3 percent and Saudi
Arabia’s Tadawul All Share Index lost 2.2 percent. Qatar’s Index
retreated 1.9 percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.2 percent, adding to
yesterday’s 1.2 percent gain, as raw material producers and port
operators rallied. Shanghai International Port (Group) Co.
surged 10 percent, adding to a 95 percent gain since the State
Council approved the city’s free-trade zone plan on Aug. 22.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 351 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  