-- Merkel Third Term Offers Vision to Keep Cameron’s U.K. in EU
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n ,   B i r g i t   J e n n e n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-09-05T10:57:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/merkel-third-term-offers-vision-to-keep-cameron-s-u-k-in-eu.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is
preparing a push to curtail the reach of European Union
rulemakers, aligning her with British Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s fight to claw back powers.  “Regulation is being overstretched,”  Michael Link , the
European affairs minister from Merkel’s Free Democrat coalition
partners, said in an Aug. 26 interview in Berlin. Germany wants
to shift “the focus of the commission to fundamental policy
areas such as energy and the internal market.”  Merkel and German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  have
grown increasingly unhappy with the Brussels-based commission,
the EU’s executive arm, over its handling of the euro crisis.
The latest conflict area surrounds plans for a Europe-wide bank
restructuring fund that could see German taxpayers footing the
bill for bailing out foreign banks.  The German chancellor has softened her initial rebuff of
Cameron’s call for a shakeup of the bloc. With opinion polls
suggesting she’ll win a third term in Sept. 22 elections, she’s
likely to air proposals to return some commission powers to
national capitals and streamline others once the vote is out the
way, according to officials and lawmakers in Berlin and
Brussels. The intention would be to put economic growth at the
top of the EU agenda, in line with Cameron’s stated aims.  “Merkel’s playing a new tune,”  Markus Ferber , a European
Parliament lawmaker from Merkel’s Christian Social Union allies,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “It’s about keeping
the U.K. in the EU by returning some commission powers and that
overlaps with Germany’s aim to forge a stronger euro area.”  Referendum Plan  Cameron said in January he wanted to renegotiate the U.K.’s
membership of the EU and hold a referendum on the results by
late 2017. While he’s yet to spell out precise demands,
lawmakers said they want powers to be returned to national
capitals to include justice, policing and worker protections. He
said he wants the 28-nation bloc to focus on its single-market
aspects to help growth.  The repatriation of powers is “a sensible idea,” Merkel’s
spokesman, Steffen Seibert, said in an interview in Berlin
yesterday, citing a need to look again at the “high degree of
concentration of regulation” in the hands of the commission. He
noted that the Netherlands is another country with similar aims.  Dutch Foreign Minister Frans Timmermans  set out a plan in
June  to take back some powers for governments under the slogan
“European where necessary, national where possible.”  ‘Across Europe’  “The importance of considering this is something that
resonates across  Europe ,” Cameron’s spokesman, Jean-Christophe Gray, told reporters in  London  today, when asked about Merkel’s
move. “It highlights a challenge that faces lots of EU
countries and a case the prime minister has been at the
forefront of making.”  Merkel sees an overlap between Cameron’s broad demands and
her plan to make EU states -- above all euro members -- more
competitive and committed to budget discipline,  Carsten Brzeski ,
an economist at ING Groep NV in Brussels, said in an interview
Aug. 30. Even so, “Merkel expects the commission to put up
resistance to having its wings clipped.”  German disgruntlement over the commission’s record
intensified this year with spats over chemical coolants in car
air-conditioning as well as the plans for a banking union. EU
Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  said in an
interview on Aug. 29 he has “no plan B” in his proposal for a
single system for handling failing banks.  Radio Comments  Merkel hinted last month at her readiness to align with
Cameron. “Do we need more competencies for Europe or should we
give some back?” she said on  Deutschlandfunk radio  on Aug. 13.
“We’ll talk about this after the parliamentary election.”  In her initial response to Cameron’s speech in January, she
said the U.K. must realize that “other countries have their own
wishes and we always have to come to a fair compromise in the
end.”  Merkel’s radio comments this month marked her first
explicit backing for returning powers from Brussels, EU research
group Open Europe  said  in a blog. “Merkel is convinced that
Cameron is one of the few EU leaders who understands the ‘global
race’” for economic growth, it said.  Chris Heaton-Harris, who helped found the “Fresh Start”
group of Conservative lawmakers who’ve been co-opted by Cameron
to negotiate on his behalf, said they’d found  Germany  very
supportive of their ideas.  ‘Rapid Focus’  “The Germans have been amazingly helpful. They’ve gone out
of their way to be helpful. I sense almost a coalescing of our
positions,” said Heaton-Harris in an interview Aug. 28. “When
Merkel gets re-elected, there’s going to be a quite big and
rapid focus on achieving the goals she’s set for Europe.”  Tory lawmakers “found that small business people in
Germany have exactly the same gripe about European red tape as
every small business in Britain,” he said.  Germany’s seeking to push changes to the way the commission
does its business without recourse to legal changes that would
require unanimity among the EU’s 28 members. “There’s no plan
for a treaty change,” said Link of the Foreign Ministry.  Intra-government cooperation forged in the euro debt crisis
may be a “blueprint” for pushing Germany’s agenda, said
Ferber.  Still, in seeking the changes, Merkel won’t have it all her
way, said Brzeski. “Sparks are inevitable,” he said in a
telephone interview. “British politicians shouldn’t be too
optimistic about Merkel’s plans.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Birgit Jennen in Berlin at 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  