-- Letta Risks Losing Control as Berlusconi Splits Alliance
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-09-05T13:53:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/letta-risks-losing-control-as-berlusconi-splits-alliance.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta
risks losing control of his parliamentary coalition as lawmakers
argue over proceedings to strip ex-Premier  Silvio Berlusconi  of
his seat in the Senate.  The debate intensified yesterday and is splitting Letta’s
alliance. In a closed-door meeting, lawmakers loyal to
Berlusconi failed to convince their coalition partners to agree
to slow down the expulsion debate, according to Mario Michele
Giarrusso, an opposition senator present at the encounter.
Berlusconi postponed plans to withdraw support from Letta and
will re-evaluate next week,  Corriere Della Sera  reported today.  Letta, 47, has maintained cohesion in his four-month-old
coalition of rivals by delaying key decisions and meeting the
demands of Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party on  tax policy 
and government personnel. While the premier has sidestepped
comment on the ouster proceedings, lawmakers in his  Democratic
Party  have refused to help protect Berlusconi’s seat.  “I would say we are in a red alert situation,” said
Giovanni Orsina, a history professor at Luiss Guido Carli
University in Rome. “The only possible compromise at the moment
is getting more time to think about it.”  The benchmark FTSE MIB climbed 1 percent to 16,871.11 at
2:42 p.m. in Milan, while the broader Stoxx Europe 600 Index
advanced 0.6 percent. Italian 10-year bond yields rose 1 basis
points to 4.43 percent.  Government Survival  Letta said he was optimistic about the government’s
survival in an interview in  St. Petersburg  late yesterday with
 Russia  24, the Ansa news agency reported. Letta, in Russia for
the Group of 20 summit, met today with Russian President
 Vladimir Putin  and leaders from  Mexico ,  South Korea  and
 Singapore .  Berlusconi, 76, faces potential expulsion from parliament
because his conviction for tax fraud was rendered definitive by
Italy’s top court last month. Democratic Party General Secretary
Guglielmo Epifani reiterated yesterday that expulsion is
required under a 2012 anti-corruption law, according to comments
broadcast by SkyTG24. That reading has been disputed by People
of Liberty, or PDL.  “You can’t but recognize that this law isn’t applicable,”
Transport Minister Maurizio Lupi of the PDL said in an interview
broadcast by SkyTG24.  Parliamentary Immunity  The process against Berlusconi starts with a Sept. 9
meeting of the Senate’s parliamentary immunities committee,
which will debate over multiple days about whether to put the
matter before the upper house’s full chamber. Representatives of
the PDL sought time to evaluate options after that first
appointment, while the Democratic Party pushed to schedule the
second committee meeting on Sept. 10, Giarrusso of the Five Star
Movement told reporters in Rome.  The second meeting will be set at the end of the Sept. 9
appointment, Senator Dario Stefano, chairman of the committee
said today in a televised interview with SkyTG24.  “The committee can’t operate under political pressure,”
Senator Stefania Pezzopane, a Democratic Party member and vice
chairman of the committee, told reporters in Rome. “The
committee must simply, honestly and seriously make sure that the
law of the land is applied.”  The PDL, the second-biggest party in Letta’s alliance,
claims the law is unconstitutional and shouldn’t be applied to
the former premier, whose  tax-fraud  conviction dates to events
in 2002 and 2003. The party is pushing for a Constitutional
Court ruling on the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  