-- EU Money Market Rules, Swap Rules, Bank Wills: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-09-04T12:02:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/eu-money-market-rules-swap-rules-bank-wills-compliance.html
Banks and asset managers running
money-market funds face a regulatory push from the European
Union amid warnings from lenders that the plans may kill off
part of the $4.7 trillion global industry.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, will
call for the funds to hoard easy-to-sell assets and in some
cases to meet minimum capital requirements, in a bid to limit
the scope for excessive risk-taking, according to a document
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Regulators need to counter the threat of “investor runs”
on a fund, according to the document, a draft version of
proposals to be presented by Barnier today. Money funds, a type
of investment vehicle focused on short-term, high-quality
assets, “play a central role in the short-term funding of
entities like banks, corporations and governments” meaning a
run could have “broader macroeconomic consequences.”  Regulators are working to impose tighter restrictions on
money-market funds since the September 2008 collapse of the
$62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund. Its failure, caused by
losses on debt issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
triggered a wider run on the industry that helped freeze global
credit markets.  The EU plans include requiring  money-market funds  that
maintain a fixed share price to build up a cash buffer
equivalent to 3 percent of their assets, according to the draft.  Funds that are already in place before the rules become law
would have three years to fully meet the cash-buffer
requirement.  The European Fund and Asset Management Association, a group
representing the investment-management activities of banks
including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , has  warned 
that setting capital requirements for money funds risks
destabilizing their business model and confusing investors, who
may simply look elsewhere.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU Agency Backs Some U.S. Swaps Rules in Bid to Counter Overlaps  European Union regulators  said  that many U.S. rules for
over-the-counter derivatives are as tough as EU standards, in a
move that may shield banks from having to comply with two sets
of requirements.  U.S. rules on the use of clearinghouses and trade
repositories are broadly in line with EU measures, the European
Securities and Markets Authority said yesterday. EU-based banks
would be allowed to only comply with U.S. rules for some
activities in the country if the European Commission agrees with
ESMA’s assessment.  The U.S. and EU have brokered a deal to resolve clashes in
their regulation of the  $633 trillion  swaps market. The accord
broke a deadlock over whether the U.S. could impose its rules on
trades booked in Europe. Banks and other swaps traders said the
deal reduces the chance they will be forced to comply with
conflicting regulatory regimes.  The accord only partly settled how swaps rules will apply
across borders and averted a regulatory crisis. Both sides said
further negotiations would be needed on a range of issues.  Chantal Hughes, a spokeswoman for the commission in
Brussels, couldn’t be immediately reached for comment on the
agreement.  Global Watchdog to Set Creditor-Loss Rules for Failing Banks  Global regulators said they would seek to protect taxpayers
from having to bail out failing banks by drawing up
international rules on creditor losses.  The Financial Stability Board will propose rules next year
to ensure that big banks and other too-big-to-fail financial
institutions hold subordinated debt and other liabilities that
can be written down in an emergency. The group will also address
provisions in derivatives contracts that can deepen crises.  Regulators across the world have been grappling since the
2008 financial crisis to make markets more resilient and to take
taxpayers off the hook for rescues. European Union nations alone
provided 1.7 trillion euros ($2.2 trillion) of support to their
banking systems since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., according to EU data.  The EU plans “substantively implement” overarching bank-failure principles published by the FSB in 2011, Bank of England
Governor  Mark Carney  said.  He said the FSB would ensure compatibility of steps by
different nations.  By the end of 2014 global regulators will “develop
proposals for contractual or statutory approaches to prevent
large-scale early termination of financial contracts,” the FSB
said in a report on its future plans published Sept. 2.  India Asks Exchanges to Calculate Circuit Limit on Daily Basis  The market regulator has modified index-based circuit
breaker norms, the  Securities & Exchange Board of India  said on
its website.  Circuit breaker limits of 10 percent, 15 percent and 20
percent are to be based on the previous day’s close.  Trading (NTMBIV) 
will resume after a halt with a 15 minute, pre-open call auction
session.  Exchanges should implement changes from Oct. 1, according
to the statement.  ESMA Gives Conditional Backing to U.S. OTC Derivatives Rules  The European Securities and Markets Authority made a
provisional recommendation that U.S. rules for regulating over-the-counter derivatives should be deemed equally rigorous as EU
standards.  The verdict, which is intended to make it easier for firms
to operate cross-border without having to apply overlapping
rules, needs to be confirmed by the European Commission before
it can take effect.  The European Commission is the executive body of the
European Union.  Compliance Action  Olympus Is Charged With Misleading Auditors by U.K. Agency  Olympus Corp. (7733) , whose former president revealed a $1.7
billion accounting fraud that lasted 13 years, was charged in
the U.K. for allegedly deceiving auditors at a subsidiary.  Olympus’s Gyrus Group Ltd. unit misled auditors between
April 2010 and March 2011, the Serious Fraud Office said in a
 statement  today. The first court hearing on the matter will take
place Sept. 10, the SFO said. The potential financial impact of
the prosecution on Olympus’s business is unclear, the company
said in a statement to the Tokyo stock exchange.  Former Olympus President  Michael Woodford  said in October
2011 that he asked the SFO to investigate a report by
PricewaterhouseCoopers about payments made by the Japanese
company to advisers in a 2008 deal. Woodford went public with
his knowledge of the dealings after the Olympus board fired him.
The company was fined 700 million yen ($7 million) in Japan and
three executives pleaded guilty to covering up losses at the
maker of endoscopes and cameras.  “We just received the notice last night and so are still
going through it,” said Michiko Kawasaki, a spokeswoman for
Olympus. “We haven’t decided on the specifics on how we’ll
handle it.”  SEC to Rewrite Oil-Company Payments Rule Thrown Out by Court  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission will rewrite a
rule mandating disclosure of payments by oil and gas companies
to foreign governments after a federal judge voided an earlier
version.  In moving to redraft the rule, the commission decided
against appealing U.S. District Judge  John Bates ’s July 2
opinion, which found the regulation wasn’t consistent with
Congress’ directions. Required under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act,
the provision was aimed at enhancing the transparency of
payments between oil and gas producers and resource-rich
countries.  The SEC will re-propose the rule in a manner “informed by
the court’s decision,”  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said
today. He said there was no schedule for issuing a new proposal.  The commission approved the rule in August 2012. It was
challenged in court by the American Petroleum Institute, which
lobbies for oil and gas producers, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
and two other trade groups.  In rejecting the rule, Bates wrote the SEC erred in
deciding that payment-disclosure forms filed by individual
companies must be made public.  U.K. Banks Pay Out 500,000 Pounds Over Improper Swap Sales  The U.K.  Financial Conduct Authority  said banks agreed to
pay 500,000 pounds ($779,000) to companies that were improperly
sold derivatives to hedge the effect of interest-rate changes.  The amount will increase in the coming months as banks
continue to send hundreds of compensation offers to businesses
and consumers, the FCA said in a statement on its  website  today.  British banks may end up paying billions of pounds for
improper sales of swaps, according to analysts. It’s one of at
least three mis-selling scandals facing U.K. banks. Lenders have
also had to pay out billions over payment-protection and
identity-theft insurance products.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  has more than 10,000
claims under review, more than the combined total for HSBC
Holdings Plc,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the FCA
said. The Edinburgh-based bank may have to increase its 750
million-pound provision for settling swap disputes, Investec
Ltd. analyst  Ian Gordon  said in a note to clients.  “We are committed to ensuring that all those that were
mis-sold these products get fair and reasonable redress,” RBS
said in an e-mailed statement. “We are prioritizing those
businesses that are most in distress first, and working towards
processing the majority of cases within the timeframe set by the
regulator.”  Groups representing businesses that bought the interest-rate products said the process wasn’t moving fast enough. The
FCA report is “depressing” because it shows that only 10
companies out of 15,000 claims have been offered compensation,
said John Allan, chairman of the Federation of Small Businesses.  The British Bankers’ Association said the FCA report
indicates that financial institutions have been working to
contact all parties potentially affected by the swap sales.  U.S. Banking Agencies Release Template for Bank ‘Living Wills’  U.S. regulators released a  template  to guide mid-sized
banks in writing initial plans designed to liquidate themselves
with minimal disruption in a failure.  The template from the  Federal Reserve  and Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. is meant to help banks with total consolidated
assets between $50 billion and $100 billion in filing their
opening round of “living wills” by a Dec. 31 deadline.  The banks -- thought less likely to be a threat to the
wider financial system were they to collapse -- will write
tailored resolution plans that focus on nonbank operations, the
agencies said.  Dealers in Debt Pare Commitments Raising Risk as Rules Bite  The worst losses in U.S. debt in at least 37 years are
being magnified by investors exiting the market at the same time
new regulations prompt Wall Street firms to cut back on trading
corporate bonds.  Bank of America  Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Broad Market Index is
on pace to drop 4.41 percent, the biggest annual loss since at
least 1976. Investors pulled $123 billion from bond funds since
May, according to TrimTabs Investment Research.  Trading in corporate fixed-income securities is the lowest
ever as a proportion of outstanding debt, and volumes in
Treasuries are little changed from 2007 levels even though the
market has almost tripled to $11.5 trillion, Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority and ICAP Plc data show. Bonds are getting
riskier even with inflation at bay and corporate profits hitting
new highs.  Investors say it’s becoming harder to quickly exit
positions as banks cut inventories and curb riskier businesses
such as trading with their own money to comply with rules from
the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act.  Money managers who used an average of seven dealers for the
biggest purchases and sales of investment-grade securities in
2009 now say they need nine or 10, according to Stamford,
Connecticut-based financial advisory firm Greenwich Associates.  The credit-default swaps market has contracted, reflecting
reduced trading, according to data maintained by the Depository
Trust & Clearing Corp.  The shrinking derivatives market makes it more difficult
for dealers to hedge, reducing their willingness to own bonds,
according to Jeff Meli, the co-head of fixed-income, currencies
and commodities research at Barclays Plc in New York.  Banks are setting aside more money to cover bad loans and
cope with downturns to comply with rules aimed at preventing
U.S. taxpayers from having to bail them out as during the credit
crisis.  For more, click here.  Interviews  Levitt Says Bank Regulators Are Taking Aim at JPM  Arthur Levitt , former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, said JPMorgan Chase & Co. faces a “spate
of international regulatory actions.” Levitt talked with
Bloomberg’s  Tom Keene  and  Michael McKee  on Bloomberg Radio’s
“Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Barnier Says Opposed to ‘Brutal’ Ban on Fixed Price Money Funds  Michel Barnier, the European Union’s financial services
chief, said he opposed calls for a “formal and brutal ban” on
fixed share price money funds that some blame for worsening the
financial crisis after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.  Barnier made proposals today that sought to rein in the
funds, falling short of such a ban.  Comings and Goings/Executive Pay  Ecobank’s Tanoh to Forgo 2012 Bonus as Bank Reviews Governance  Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI)  Chief Executive Officer Thierry
Tanoh will forgo a $1.14 million bonus for 2012 as the lender
reviews corporate governance after allegations of fraud by a
senior manager.  Executive Director of Risk and Finance Laurence do Rego
will meet the board next week about fraud allegations she made
to Nigeria’s Securities and Exchange Commission last month,
Jeremy Reynolds, a spokesman for Lomo, Togo-based Ecobank, said
by e-mail yesterday. Do Rego said she had been pressured to
write off debts owed by a business chaired by Ecobank Chairman
Kolapo Lawson and manipulate the bank’s results for 2012.  The bank, which operates in more African countries than any
other, will appoint external advisers to review governance,
Reynolds said. While the bank doesn’t agree with Do Rego’s
allegations, she has the opportunity to present her evidence to
the board, he said.  Do Rego isn’t attending work at Ecobank while the bank
investigates a possible misstatement of her qualifications made
when she joined 11 years ago, Reynolds said. Do Rego said she
didn’t lie about her qualifications, the Financial Times
reported on Aug. 29.  Israeli Banks Delay Salary Discussion at Regulator’s Request  Bank Leumi (LUMI)  Le-Israel delayed salary discussion, following a
regulator’s request, until a new directive on banking management
is finalized, according to a filing with the Tel Aviv Stock
Exchange yesterday.  Last month, the Israel banks supervisor issued a draft
directive on compensation.  The Bank Leumi discussion was scheduled to be held at its
annual shareholders meeting on Sept. 12, the bank said in the
filing.  Bank  Hapoalim (POLI)  Ltd., Israel’s largest bank, and  First
International Bank (FTIN)  of Israel Ltd. also delayed salary
discussions at the regulator’s request, according to filings
with the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  