-- EU to Limit Aviation Carbon Cuts as ICAO Studies Global Plan
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-09-04T20:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/eu-to-limit-aviation-carbon-cuts-as-icao-studies-global-plan.html
The European Union agreed to limit
the scope of its carbon curbs on airlines as the United Nations
aviation panel’s council pledged to work on a global plan to cut
pollution from the industry beginning in 2020.  The International Civil Aviation Organization’s Council
agreed today to have tools in place by 2016 needed to develop a
global market-based measure to reduce  greenhouse gases ,
according to Jos Delbeke, director general for climate at the
European Commission. The outcome is weaker than what was sought
by the 28-nation EU, whose move to include international flights
in its carbon market as of last year sparked opposition by
countries including the U.S. and  Russia .  “There are some bits and pieces in the text that made
everybody unhappy,” Delbeke told a conference in Brussels
today. “So it may be not far away from an ideal compromise.”  The deal is subject to approval by the ICAO general
assembly from Sept. 24 to Oct. 4 in  Montreal . The Council, which
includes 36 member states of the organization, agreed that the
existing emissions trading system may cover airlines in regional
airspace until a global system replaces it.  “That means that the EU ETS will be able to continue for
intra-European flights,” Delbeke said. “We would also have
this part of international flights that is covered by regional
airspace.”  The EU agreed last year to suspend emissions trading
obligations on flights into and out of  Europe . Any extension of
the rule or a change to the bloc’s carbon trading law would
require approval by member states and the European Parliament.  “We will have a controversial debate in the Parliament,”
said Peter Liese, a German member of the assembly. “We need to
look carefully at what kind of legislation we can have.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Stubbe in Houston at 
 rstubbe1@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  