-- Euro-Area Factory and Services Output Expands for Second Month
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-09-04T08:10:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/euro-area-factory-and-services-output-expands-for-second-month.html
Euro-area services and factory
output expanded for a second month in August, adding to signs
that the currency bloc’s economic revival is gaining pace.  A composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers
in both industries rose to 51.5 from 50.5 in July, London-based
Markit Economics said today. That’s below an Aug. 22 estimate of
51.7 and is the highest level since June 2011.  Today’s release is the latest to support the  European
Central Bank ’s projection of a gradual recovery in the second
half after the euro-area economy  emerged  from its longest-ever
recession in the second quarter.  Economic confidence  soared to a
two-year high in August, and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index is up
almost 6 percent in the last two months.  “Things are starting to look better but we have to keep in
mind that growth rates are still low,” said Evelyn Herrmann, an
economist at BNP Paribas SA in  London . “We see encouraging
signs from Spain and Italy, and it looks like the periphery is
gaining strength. That’s particularly true when you look at this
week’s manufacturing data.”  Factory output expanded at a faster pace than initially
estimated in August, Markit said on Sept. 2, while the  services
index  registered growth for the first time since January 2012.  In  Italy , factory output accelerated last month at the
fastest pace in months, boosted by an increase in new orders.
Spanish manufacturing  expanded  for the first time in more than
two years, strengthening Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s
prediction that the economy will emerge from recession this
year.  ECB Forecast  The euro-area economy  grew 0.3 percent  in the three months
to June, led by its largest economies, Germany and France. The
ECB will release new growth projections tomorrow when policy
makers gather in  Frankfurt  for their monthly rate meeting. The
central bank currently predicts the economy to shrink 0.6
percent this year before growing 1.1 percent in 2014.  “The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro
area continue to be on the downside,” ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on Aug. 1 after leaving the benchmark  interest rate 
at a record low of 0.5 percent. Borrowing costs will remain at
current levels or lower for an extended period of time, he said.  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz brand, the world’s third-biggest
luxury carmaker, produced more vehicles than ever before in the
first half to cover demand for its new compact models and sport-utility vehicles. “We are planning for further growth,”
 Andreas Renschler , head of manufacturing, said on Aug. 16.  Debt Crisis  Some European companies are still feeling the pain from the
sovereign debt crisis, now in its fourth year, and  unemployment 
remains at a record 12.1 percent.  Schaeffler AG, the family-owned bearing maker that’s the
biggest investor in car-parts producer  Continental AG (CON) , on Aug.
28 lowered its 2013 sales forecast on weaker demand for
industrial components.  Reforms in the euro-area economy are “showing the first
signs of success,”  Angela Merkel , who seeks a third term as
German chancellor in a Sept. 22 election, said last week. At the
same time, “in some areas in some countries we’re not good
enough, not competitive enough to make products that can be
sold,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  