-- European Bank Executives Defend Size Against EU Excess
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   K e l l
-- 2013-09-05T07:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/european-bank-executives-defend-size-against-eu-excess.html
(Corrects story published yesterday to say 13 lenders in
fifth paragraph.)  The chief executive officers of
three of  Europe ’s largest banks defended themselves against
criticism they’re companies are too big, saying the region needs
lenders with scale to support clients around the world.  At a conference in Frankfurt today,  Frederic Oudea , who
heads  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , cited the need for lenders to be able
to fund billion-dollar deals, while  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  co-CEO
Anshu Jain said clients want banks that can provide an array of
financial services. Federico Ghizzoni, CEO of Italy’s  UniCredit
SpA (UCG) , said growth of companies outside their domestic market will
require banks able to make investments in their infrastructure.  Global leaders have ordered banks to raise capital to avoid
a repeat of the taxpayer-funded rescues that followed the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. While the CEOs voiced
support for the rules designed to bolster the financial health
of their firms, they warned European regulators against
overreach that could put them at a disadvantage to competitors
in the U.S. and elsewhere.  “Size matters, there’s no discussion,” said Ghizzoni, who
leads  Italy ’s largest bank. “More capital, less leverage, more
stringent liquidity ratio and so forth plus competition means
we’re under pressure on revenues. At the same time as we have
discussed so far, there is a huge need for investment.”  ‘Cheap Money’  In Europe, “only” 13 lenders operate in more than 10
countries, according to Ghizzoni. There are “a few banks that
will be big by nature in order to compete with the large
universal banks in the U.S.,” said Oudea, who heads  France ’s
second-largest bank based in Paris.  Some speakers at the conference organized by Euroforum and
Handelsblatt newspaper signaled concerns.  “There’s been an acknowledgment that the significant
causes of the financial crisis were down to too much cheap
money, wrong calculation of risks, excessive leverage and large
banks taking too much risk,” said Georg Fahrenschon, president
of the DSGV association of German savings banks. Small lenders
can’t be “liable for large ones, potentially even guaranteeing
the existence of systemically relevant institutions.”  Jain, who runs Deutsche Bank with Juergen Fitschen, said
that while “big means complex” and “complex means
expensive,”  Germany  still needs a lender able to support
companies seeking to tap global economic growth.  “There is a minimum scale expectation in terms of
efficiency of platform and the breadth required to give your
clients what they need,” he said. “On its own, no one wants to
be big.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kell in Frankfurt at 
 akell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  