-- European Stocks Are Little Changed as Vodafone Advances
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-09-04T16:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/european-stock-index-futures-climb-before-gdp-revision.html
European stocks  were little changed
as Vodafone Group Plc led telecommunications shares higher and
as investors waited for a U.S. Senate committee to vote on a
resolution enabling President  Barack Obama  to attack Syria.  Vodafone added 2.2 percent as it rebounded from yesterday’s
biggest drop in two months. Ryanair slumped the most in more
than five years after Europe’s largest discount airline said
full-year profit may fall short of its forecast range.
ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG lost 5 percent after a holding company
for investments owned by KKR & Co. and Permira Advisers LLP said
it is selling shares in the broadcaster.  The Stoxx 600 added 0.2 percent to 302.34 at the close of
trading, after earlier declining as much as 0.7 percent. The
gauge lost 2.4 percent last week on concern the U.S. and its
allies would take military action following suspected chemical-weapon attacks on Aug. 21 that the Obama administration said
killed more than 1,400 people.  “You have a lot of risk in the coming weeks with the
situation in  Syria ,” Guillaume Duchesne, an equity strategist
at BGL BNP Paribas SA in Luxembourg, said by telephone. “On the
macro picture in Europe, the view was so negative over the last
few years. We don’t expect big negative figures again, but only
flat figures. For financial markets, that’s good news.”  A Eurostat report today confirmed that second-quarter  gross
domestic product  in the 17-nation euro area grew 0.3 percent
from the previous three-month period. That matched the  median
estimate  of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Senate Vote  The Senate Foreign Relations Committee votes on a
resolution that restricts the use of force by the U.S. military
against President Bashar al-Assad’s regime to 90 days. The
proposals explicitly fail to authorize the use of ground troops
in combat. The Senate’s Democratic leadership supports the
resolution, according to an aide who asked not to be identified
commenting before a vote.  National benchmark indexes advanced in 12 of the 18
western-European markets today. France’s CAC 40 and  Germany ’s
DAX gained 0.2 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 rose 0.1 percent.
The number of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600-listed
companies was 12 percent greater than the average of the past 30
days, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Italy’s FTSE MIB Index declined 1.4 percent as the
Repubblica newspaper reported that former Italian Prime Minister
Silvio Berlusconi may consider withdrawing his support for the
coalition government.  Vodafone Climbs  Vodafone rose 2.2 percent to 207 pence. The mobile-phone
operator yesterday fell 5 percent after confirming that it will
sell its 45 percent stake in Verizon Wireless to Verizon
Communications Inc.  A gauge of telecommunications companies posted the  best
performance  among the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600.
 France ’s Orange SA climbed 1.6 percent to 8.05 euros.  Finmeccanica SpA gained 3.6 percent to 4.05 euros. Italy’s
largest aerospace company and U.S. private-equity firm First
Reserve agreed on the terms to sell a majority stake in power-plant construction unit Ansaldo Energia SpA to South Korea’s
Doosan Heavy Industries, Reuters reported, citing an
unidentified source with direct knowledge of the situation.  SAS Group rallied 10 percent to 14.80 kronor. The Nordic
region’s largest airline exceeded its profitability target in
its fiscal third quarter, helped by lower payroll costs and
higher passenger revenue. Profit before tax rose 54 percent to
1.12 billion kronor ($170 million) in the three months through
July. Nordea Equity Research had estimated 1.05 billion kronor.  Airlines Drop  Ryanair slumped 13 percent to 5.87 euros. The Dublin-based
company said that full-year net income may fall short of its
forecast range of 570 million euros ($753 million) to 600
million euros. Chief Executive Officer Michael O’Leary said
greater competition on prices and increased capacity had
contributed to lower fares in September, October and November.  EasyJet Plc, Europe’s second-biggest discount airline, sank
5.1 percent to 1,215 pence. An index of travel and leisure
companies lost 1.6 percent, the largest decline of the 19
industry groups in the Stoxx 600.  ProSiebenSat.1 dropped 5 percent to 30.68 euros. KKR and
Permira are selling a stake valued at more than 760 million
euros through Lavena, a holding company. The private-equity
investors will still hold about 33 percent of ProSiebenSat.1
after the sale. Lavena said it is selling the 25 million shares
through an accelerated bookbuild.  Iliad Retreats  Iliad SA fell 2.7 percent to 179 euros. Xavier Niel, the
founder of the French low-cost mobile-phone carrier, sold a 3
percent stake valued at about 320 million euros based on
yesterday’s closing price. Niel still has a controlling holding
of 55.3 percent, Paris-based Iliad said in a statement.  Delhaize Group retreated 7.5 percent to 46 euros, its
biggest drop since May 2012. The owner of the Food Lion
supermarket chain said Frans Muller will take over as chief
executive officer on Nov. 8. The retailer also announced that
Roland Smith has resigned as the CEO of Delhaize America. Exane
BNP Paribas SA’s Andrew Gwynn wrote that the shares may fall
because Smith has left the company’s U.S. subsidiary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in London at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  