-- Ex-Billionaire Lebedev Seeks ‘Risk-Free’ Debt Over Russia Assets
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-09-04T14:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/ex-billionaire-lebedev-seeks-risk-free-debt-over-russia-assets.html
Russian newspaper tycoon  Alexander Lebedev , whose fortune has fallen to a few hundred million
dollars from $2 billion, plans to invest almost all of his money
in bonds as he sells off most of his domestic assets.  “You get a coupon of 8 percent and it’s risk-free,”
Lebedev, 53, said yesterday in an interview at the Moscow
mansion he uses as an office. He said he’d buy $300 million of
Russian government and corporate bonds as well as Kazakh debt.  Lebedev said he’s sold his shares in state-run carrier OAO
Aeroflot, where he once owned more than 25 percent, as well as a
stake in a state-controlled aircraft leasing company. He also
disposed of his Russian budget airline,  Red Wings , and has
closed nearly all operations of his National Reserve Bank.  The tycoon, who finances the U.K. Evening Standard and
Independent newspapers as well as Russian opposition newspaper
 Novaya Gazeta , accuses the authorities of driving him out of
business in retaliation for his anti-corruption campaign.  “I underestimated the Kremlin’s reaction to things,”
Lebedev said. “The system is completely controlled by corrupt
bureaucrats.”  Berlin-based Transparency International’s  2012 Corruption
Perceptions Index  ranked  Russia  as the world’s most corrupt
major economy. It ranked 133rd out of 176 countries worldwide,
alongside  Honduras  and below Uganda and  Nicaragua .  Avoids Prison  Lebedev escaped a prison sentence after a Russian judge
found him guilty of assault for punching property developer
Sergei Polonsky on national television, sentencing the former
KGB agent to 150 hours of community service in July.  Lebedev, who served in the Soviet Embassy in  London  during
the  Cold War , faced as long as five years in prison over the
2011 incident until prosecutors dropped the more serious charge
of hooliganism. He’s appealing his sentence.  The newspaper owner has said crooked businessmen in
collusion with public officials have “embezzled and siphoned
off” at least $700 billion from Russia during the last 15
years, citing data from the Tax Justice Network.  Lebedev said his U.K. newspaper holdings, run by his son
Evgeny, remain unprofitable because the Independent is “still
making big losses.” Still, the Evening Standard now earns “a
couple of million pounds” a year and i, his U.K. mass-market
newspaper, is breaking even.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  