-- Fannie Mae Prepares Investors for Mortgage Risk-Sharing Bonds
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-09-04T17:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/fannie-mae-prepares-investors-for-mortgage-risk-sharing-bonds.html
Fannie Mae , the government-controlled mortgage-finance company, is starting to prepare
investors for the first transaction in which the firm would
share the risk of homeowner defaults with bond buyers.  Executives at Washington-based  Fannie Mae (FNMA) , which bought or
guaranteed $468 billion of residential mortgages in the first
half of the year, will discuss its  credit-risk  management
practices on an invitation-only web conference for investors
that was set to start at 12:30 p.m. today, according to an
online posting.  Competitor Freddie Mac sold risk-sharing bonds in July tied
to almost $23 billion of home loans being held by the typical
securities it guarantees, as regulators seek to reduce the role
of the two firms in the market and assess whether they are
charging enough for the insurance.  The risk-sharing transactions echo the new system of U.S.
mortgage finance envisioned under legislation introduced this
year by Republican Senator  Bob Corker  of Tennessee and
Democratic Senator  Mark Warner  of Virginia, and endorsed by
President  Barack Obama . The  Federal Housing Finance Agency  has
overseen Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac since they were seized in
2008 amid the worst housing slump since the Great Depression.  With government-backed mortgages accounting for more than
85 percent of new lending, the FHFA has been directing the
companies to raise how much they charge to guarantee their
traditional mortgage bonds and asked each to attempt to share
risk on $30 billion of home loans this year.  “We are working with FHFA to meet the goals of the
Conservatorship Scorecard for 2013,” Callie Dosberg, a Fannie
Mae spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Guarantee Fees  The company has hired  Bank of America Corp.  to manage the
transaction, said Zia Ahmed, a spokesman for the Charlotte,
North Carolina-based lender.  Almost 50 different buyers participated in a $500 million
offering by  Freddie Mac  in July, which was managed by Credit
Suisse Group AG, according to the issuer. They included mutual
funds,  hedge funds , real-estate investment trusts, pension
funds, insurers, banks and  credit unions .  The yields demanded on those notes suggests that Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac’s current guarantee fees are “almost priced
appropriately” if the government wants to maintain a role in
the mortgage market in which taxpayers bear any catastrophic
losses, according to an Aug. 23 report by Barclays Plc analysts
Sandipan Deb and Nicholas Strand. The charges have roughly
doubled since the housing slump to about 0.55 percentage point
annually, the analysts said.  The fees would need to rise about 0.1 percentage point to
allow bank portfolios to compete for loans, and about 0.25
percentage point for fully private mortgage-bond issuers, the
analysts wrote.  Sales of debt known as non-agency mortgage securities froze
five years ago amid tumbling home values and soaring defaults,
following issuance of $1.2 trillion in each of 2005 and 2006,
and then restarted in 2010. Deals tied to new loans total about
$10.5 billion this year, up from $3.5 billion in all of 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  