-- Faster Care After Heart Attack Fails to Reduce Deaths
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-09-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/faster-care-after-heart-attack-fails-to-reduce-deaths.html
One of the most successful efforts
in modern medicine, cutting the time it takes to treat heart-attack patients after they arrive at a hospital, has failed to
deliver on its most highly anticipated benefit: saving lives.  A study of 96,738 patients experiencing a  massive heart
attack  showed time to treatment was reduced 20 percent to 67
minutes from 2005 to 2009 because of improved coordination among
hospital units and emergency workers. Still, about 5 percent of
patients died in the hospital in 2009, almost the same as four
years earlier when care was slower, according to research in the
 New England Journal of Medicine .  The findings suggest additional efforts to treat patients
faster once they reach the hospital could be in vain and may
lead to errors in care, said  Daniel Menees , an interventional
cardiologist at the University of Michigan Medical School.
Instead, public efforts should focus on other approaches,
including teaching patients to recognize symptoms and
encouraging them to reach out for help more quickly.  “Intuitively, we’ve all believed that the sooner we take
patients to the cath lab, the shorter we make those treatment
times, the better our patients will do,” Menees said in a
telephone interview. “That’s not necessarily true.”  Previous studies that showed faster treatment times saved
lives could reflect that patients treated quickly may have more
straightforward cases, compared with slower care in people with
other ailments that make the decision more complicated, Menees
said. The focus on speed has also made the clock the most
important element, he said.  Compromising Safety  Treatment teams activated to care for heart attack patients
are false alarms as much as one-third of the time now, Eric
Bates, from the University of Michigan, and Alice Jacobs, from
Boston University Medical Center, wrote in an editorial
accompanying the study. The rush to clear the artery can also
short-circuit efforts to diagnose the problem, spot other
conditions and get consent, possibly compromising safety, they
wrote.  The issue is a critical one for hospitals. The time it
takes from a patient’s arrival to get a clogged artery cleared,
generally done with a balloon-tipped catheter that’s threaded
into the blockage and inflated to open a path for oxygen-rich
blood, is called the door-to-balloon time. It’s now considered a
key measure of  hospital quality  and is tied to payments from the
U.S. Medicare insurance plan for the elderly and disabled.  “The concept of door-to-balloon as a performance measure
should at least raise some eyebrows,” said Menees, the lead
researcher on the study released yesterday. “We should consider
looking at this a little closer and evaluate it the way we do a
new device or a drug.”  250,000 Victims  More than 250,000 Americans each year suffer the most
serious type of heart attack. The lack of blood and oxygen
immediately starts to damage the heart muscle cells. With time,
the cells die and cause irreparable scarring in the heart. While
some patients die before getting help, hospitals have focused on
quickly opening the arteries to salvage as much of the heart
muscle as possible.  The nation’s  hospitals  have improved the door-to-balloon
time since 2006 when health groups including the American Heart
Association and the American College of Cardiology started an
initiative to speed care. More than 83 percent of patients are
now treated within the recommended 90 minutes, exceeding the
original 75 percent goal and an increase from 60 percent four
years earlier.  The study shows the success hospitals and doctors have had
in speeding treatment, said John Harold, president of the
 American College of Cardiology . The results won’t change the
guidelines, particularly because survival isn’t the only goal
for fast care, he said.  Quality of Life  “We are also interested in recovery and quality of life
after a heart attack,” he said in a statement. “Time is
muscle, and the sooner treatment begins, the less muscle is
damaged, which preserves functionality of the heart.”  Ultimately, faster care may reduce the future risk of heart
failure and improve quality of life, he said. The area is ripe
for further studies, the researchers said.  An area that may yield bigger benefits is encouraging
patients to seek medical care more quickly, which would reduce
the time the heart spends without sufficient blood flow.  “Heart muscle is dying while a patient is thinking, ‘Is
this real?’” said  Hitinder Gurm , senior author of the paper and
an interventional cardiologist at the University of Michigan.
“We’re seeing a fair amount of delay in seeking treatment. That
has been harder to fix.”  The study findings don’t mean that heart attacks can be
treated more casually, Menees said.  “A patient comes in with chest pain and a blocked artery,
I’m going to open it as quickly as I can,” he said. “I’m not
willing to say time to treatment doesn’t matter at all. But we
can say the improvements that were made didn’t have the effects
we hoped.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  