-- Fed’s Williams Backs Slowing Bond Buying This Year
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r
-- 2013-09-04T19:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/fed-s-williams-backs-slowing-bond-buying-this-year-1-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco President  John Williams , who has backed record
stimulus, said he favors a slowing in bond buying later this
year as the U.S. economy shows signs of picking up.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  “laid out a timetable for our
securities purchases, which includes reducing them later this
year and ending them around the middle of next year, assuming
our forecasts for the economy hold true,” Williams, who doesn’t
vote on policy this year, said in  Portland ,  Oregon . “I view
Chairman Bernanke’s timetable to still be the best course
forward.”  Treasury yields hit two-year highs on Aug. 22 amid
speculation the  Federal Open Market Committee  this month will
reduce its $85 billion in monthly bond buying. Policy makers are
weighing when to begin tapering large-scale asset purchases
known as quantitative easing, which they have pledged to
maintain until the job market improves substantially.  “The  unemployment rate  and a number of other labor market
indicators, such as payroll job gains, point to continued
progress in the labor market,” Williams said to Portland
community leaders. “Clearly, we are getting closer to meeting
our test of substantial improvement in the labor market.”  Unemployment Rate  Williams told reporters after the meeting he was undecided
whether the slowing of asset purchases should begin this month.  “I’m going into this meeting with an open mind,” he said.
“I want to see all the pros and cons,” and “my view is that
it does depend on the data, the analysis and the forecast.”  While bond buying has been “very helpful” to the economy,
it may have contributed to excessive risk-taking in markets,
which were restored to some “sanity” when Fed officials
starting talking of tapering purchases a few months ago,
according to Williams.  “Prudence would call for some caution,” he said.
“Unintended consequences are an issue” and “the taper talk
may have ended what was starting to become bubble-like
behavior.”  In his prepared talk, Williams said the unemployment rate,
which dropped to 7.4 percent in July from 10 percent in October
2009, has probably overstated progress in the labor market.
Employers probably added 180,000 jobs last month and the jobless
rate held at the more than four-year low of 7.4 percent,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists ahead of a
government report on Sept. 6.  Best Statistic  Even so, unemployment remains the single best “summary
statistic” for the labor market and a decline in people
participating in the  labor force  in recent years has been caused
mostly by “structural factors,” such as retirement of the U.S.
baby boomers, he said.  Inflation has been “running well below our target” of 2
percent, Williams said. While the San Francisco Fed official
said he believed such a low level wouldn’t last, he said  price
levels  will also influence the Fed’s bond buying program.  “Any adjustments to our purchases are likely to be part of
a multistep gradual process, reflecting the pace of improvement
in the economy,” he said.  Responding to audience questions, Williams said if there
were a further decline in inflation that warranted additional
stimulus, he would favor using communications rather than asset
purchases. The FOMC has said it will keep rates near zero at
least as long as unemployment is above 6.5 percent and the
outlook for inflation is no more than 2.5 percent.  Forward Guidance  “Forward guidance has proven to be a very effective tool
and could be adjusted if we needed more stimulus,” he said.  Even after bond buying ends,  interest rates  will probably
stay near zero until late 2015, “so monetary policy will
continue to be extraordinarily stimulative for quite some
time,” Williams said earlier in his speech.  The FOMC will probably vote at its Sept. 17-18 meeting to
taper the unprecedented stimulus program, according to 65
percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg Aug. 9-13. The first
step may be to taper monthly purchases by $10 billion to a $75
billion pace, according to the median estimate in the survey of
48 economists. They said buying will probably end by mid-2014.  Growth Expectations  Williams said he expects U.S. growth of about 2 percent
this year, accelerating to 3 percent in 2014.  “I’ve been encouraged by the greater optimism I’m hearing
from a broad range of business contacts -- people in everything
from tourism to commercial real estate -- not just the pockets
of strength we’ve seen in the past year or so,” Williams said.
“All in all, the private side of the economy has been forging
ahead with considerable momentum,” though government spending
cuts continue to slow growth.  Reports since the July 30-31 gathering, where the FOMC said
that downside risks to the economy have diminished, have
suggested the  U.S. economy  has continued to make gains.
Manufacturing expanded in August at the fastest pace in more
than two years, the  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory
index showed yesterday.  The district bank chief said in April, May and early June
that the central bank could begin reducing the pace of its
monthly asset purchases as early as “this summer” if the
economy continued to improve. He was an early backer of the
Fed’s open-ended approach to quantitative easing, in which the
officials would announce neither an ultimate amount of assets
they intend to buy nor an end date for the purchases.  Williams, 51, has worked in the Fed system since 1994. He
was the reserve bank’s research director before succeeding  Janet Yellen  as president in 2011, when she became the board’s vice
chairman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Effinger in Portland at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  