-- Fiat May Face 2015 Trial Over Value of UAW Chrysler Stock
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-09-04T23:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/fiat-may-face-2015-trial-over-value-of-uaw-chrysler-stock.html
Fiat SpA (F)  may have to wait until 2015
for a trial over the value of some Chrysler Group LLC shares
owned by a union health-care fund, further delaying a plan to
combine the two companies.  Lawyers for a  United Auto Workers  trust fund are asking
Delaware Chancery Court Judge Donald Parsons to hold a January
2015 trial on the terms of a stock agreement covering at least
54,000 Chrysler shares, according to court filings. Fiat is
seeking a May 2014 trial, according to the filings.  The union’s proposal “would bring this matter to trial
within a reasonable time that would allow the parties and this
court to proceed at a suitable pace,” the trust’s lawyers said
in a letter filed with the court today in Wilmington.  Parsons refused in July to honor Fiat’s request to set a
value on the shares without a trial. The judge did rule in
Fiat’s favor on several claims affecting the value of the shares
held by the trust. Fiat bought a stake in Chrysler in June 2009
after the U.S. carmaker sought bankruptcy-court protection from
creditors.  Raymond DiCamillo, a Wilmington-based lawyer representing
Fiat, didn’t immediately return a call after regular business
hours for comment on the trial-schedule proposals. Gualberto Ranieri, a Chrysler spokesman, also didn’t immediately return a
call for comment.  Unification Effort  The trial will focus on the agreement’s techniques for
valuing the first segment of more than 270,000 shares the trust
received when Chrysler emerged from bankruptcy in 2009.  Sergio Marchionne , Fiat’s chief executive officer, wants to buy the
shares as part of an effort to transform the two regional
carmakers into a global auto producer.  Marchionne, who runs both Fiat and Chrysler, has spent the
past four years seeking to unify the companies so they can
better compete with  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
 Volkswagen AG. (VOW)  A fully integrated automaker would feature the
mass-market Fiat, Chrysler, Jeep and Dodge brands, along with
the high-end  Maserati  and  Ferrari  lines.  Fiat’s top executive has said the Delaware case will help
set a value on the shares. Fiat wants to acquire the UAW’s
entire Chrysler portfolio of 676,000 shares, or 41.5 percent of
the carmaker, as part of its unification effort.  The UAW’s  Retiree Medical Benefits Trust  provides health-care services to more than 800,000 retirees and their
dependents, according to the trust’s website. It’s the largest
nongovernmental purchaser of retiree health services in the U.S.  Fiat’s review of the first bloc of union shares available
for purchase pegged their value at about $140 million, according
to court filings. The union trust countered that its
calculations found the bloc was worth as much as $342 million.  The case is Fiat North America LLC v. UAW Retiree Medical
Benefits Trust, 7903, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  