-- Finland Reduces TeliaSonera Stake to 10.1% on Budget Squeeze
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-09-05T08:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/finland-reduces-teliasonera-stake-to-10-to-ease-budget-squeeze.html
Finland  is cutting its holdings in
phone network operator  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  as the Nordic country
suffers a fifth consecutive year of budget deficits.  Solidium Oy, the state’s equity-asset manager, sold 1.6
percent of shares in the Stockholm-based company in an
accelerated book building to institutional investors, it said in
a statement today. It raised 368 million euros ($485 million) in
the sale of 68 million shares, for a gain before tax of 128
million euros, relative to book value.  The shares were priced at 47 Swedish kronor, the lower end
of a price range of 47 kronor to 48 kronor, said one person with
knowledge of the matter who asked not to be named as the details
aren’t public. Petter Soederstroem, Solidium’s investment
director, declined to disclose the price in kronor.  TeliaSonera shares fell as much as 3.2 percent to 46.95
kronor, the most in five months, at 9:50 a.m. in  Stockholm .
Volume traded was 118 percent of the three-month daily average.  “The majority of the funds we’re raising will be returned
to the state,” Solidium Managing Director Kari Jaervinen said
by phone. “We have had discussions on the target amount.”  Finland’s economy is recovering from a yearlong recession,
its second in four years, the statistics office in Helsinki said
today. The contractions have pushed companies to cut jobs,
hurting the government’s tax revenue and increasing spending on
benefits. Still, Finland has managed to keep its  budget deficit 
within the European Union’s 3 percent limit of gross domestic
product since at least 1996.  Capital Repayment  Solidium will decide the amount and form of the capital
repayment to the state at an annual general meeting later this
month, Jaervinen said. Last year it paid a dividend and returned
capital to its owner totaling about 800 million euros.  Solidium reduced its stake to 10.1 percent from 11.7
percent in the sale managed by Deutsche Bank AG. Finland last
sold TeliaSonera shares in March 2012, raising 1.05 billion
euros to fund investments in the  mining industry . The state
moved its shareholdings to Solidium’s management in 2008 and the
current value of its portfolio is 7.9 billion euros in equities.  TeliaSonera shares have climbed 10 percent this year
through yesterday. Solidium’s stake was valued at 2.78 billion
euros before the transaction and it’s the biggest investment in
its  portfolio . Solidium said it won’t dispose of more shares for
90 days following the transaction.  European companies have raised about $63 billion in
additional share sales this year, including accelerated book-building transactions, compared with $30 billion in the same
period last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The sale is Finland’s second-biggest telecommunications-related deal announced this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Nokia Oyj this week sold its handsets unit to
Microsoft Corp. and licensed patents in a transaction valued at
5.44 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  