-- First Gulf Bank Plans More Hiring in Investment Bank Transition
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-09-04T09:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/first-gulf-bank-plans-more-hiring-in-investment-bank-transition.html
First Gulf Bank PJSC (FGB) , the Abu Dhabi-based lender which this week recruited former Standard Chartered
banker Steve Perry, is planning further high-level hires as it
focuses on winning more investment-banking business.  Perry is “one of a number of senior appointments” the
ruling-family controlled lender expects to make in the next six
months in areas such as debt capital markets, wholesale banking
head Simon Penney said today in e-mailed comments.  “We are moving into being something that looks and feels a
little bit more like an investment bank,” Penney said. “We’re
focusing a lot more on originating from our client base, which
we haven’t done as much as we should have in the past.”  Perry was  Standard Chartered (STAN)  Plc’s Dubai-based head of loan
syndications and capital markets for the Middle East and North
Africa until last year and is joining First Gulf in a new role
as the bank’s head of debt markets, said Penney, who himself
joined the bank this year from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  First Gulf Bank is one of several lenders in the second-biggest Arab economy seeking to boost investment-banking
revenue. It plans to build its bond distribution capabilities to
work alongside top regional underwriters like  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
and Standard Chartered Plc on sale mandates, Penney said.  The
bank (RBS)  is also seeking to improve its risk management abilities by
offering derivative products and foreign exchange hedging, he
said.  Bond Sales  Bond sales in the Gulf Cooperation Council surged to a
record $43 billion last year, though they have dropped 14
percent this year compared with 2012 as investor concern that
the U.S. Federal Reserve will taper its bond buying program
boosted yields.  The United Arab Emirates has the biggest banking market in
the six-nation GCC, which also includes Saudi Arabia and Qatar.
Fifty-one commercial banks operate in the country, including the
local units of  Citigroup Inc (C)  and  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   Along with debt markets, First Gulf Bank plans to build its
cash management and trade finance platforms to support clients
in the U.A.E. and abroad, Penney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net 
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  