-- Former Morgan Stanley Executive Said to Seek $2 Billion
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-09-04T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/former-morgan-stanley-executive-said-to-seek-2-billion.html
Bastion Infrastructure Group, the
investment firm led by a former chief operating officer of
 Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s infrastructure arm, is seeking $2 billion for a
debut fund that will invest globally, two people familiar with
the matter said.  Bastion Infrastructure Fund I LP will invest in power,
water, transportation and energy-related industries in countries
that are among the 34 members of the Organization for Economic
Co-operation and Development, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the information isn’t public.  The firm, headed by managing partner Ron Lepin, is seeking
to take advantage of investor appetite for predictable  cash flow 
and inflation protection by buying and managing long-term cash-producing assets. Bastion, based in Toronto, will compete for
capital with several private-equity firms gathering
multibillion-dollar funds to make investments related to public
works.  I Squared Capital LLC, a New York-based private-equity firm
led by former executives of Morgan Stanley’s infrastructure arm,
is seeking $2 billion for a global fund. Morgan Stanley’s
infrastructure unit plans to seek $4 billion for a second global
fund, two people with knowledge of the matter said in May.
Toronto-based  Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A)  raised $6.2
billion for a private infrastructure fund, exceeding the $5
billion target, according to a July 9 SEC filing.  Lepin didn’t return an e-mailed request for comment.  Elkhouly, Fuentes  Lepin was a managing director at Morgan Stanley and COO of
the bank’s $4 billion infrastructure fund, according to
Bastion’s website. Prior to Morgan Stanley, he founded the
direct infrastructure program at  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan .  Bastion in June said it hired Wael Elkhouly to head the
asset-management division. Elkhouly was previously head of asset
management at London-based Eiser Infrastructure Partners LLP.
The firm brought on Enrique Fuentes in February as partner on
the investment team. Fuentes worked at Cintra SA, a private
developer of transport infrastructure, and  Ferrovial SA (FER) , which
finances and maintains transport, urban and services
infrastructure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Rossa at 
 jrossa@bloomberg.net  