-- Francesca’s Drops Most Ever After Cutting Profit Outlook
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-09-04T20:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/francesca-s-drops-most-ever-after-cutting-profit-outlook.html
Francesca’s Holdings Corp. (FRAN)  shares
tumbled the most ever after the women’s boutique operator
lowered its full-year profit forecast and said customer traffic
will remain low.  The shares  slid  26 percent to $17.79 at the close in New
York, the most since the company’s initial public offering in
July 2011. The Houston-based retailer said earnings for its most
recent quarter were 33 cents a share, below the 35-cent average
of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  While the company boasts the U.S. retail industry’s fastest
growth rate by opening stores, sales at existing locations are
now dropping. Same-store sales, including online transactions,
fell 1 percent in the second quarter, compared with a 21 percent
increase a year earlier. The retailer was hurt by the lack of a
dominant apparel fashion trend in the quarter and lower levels
of customer traffic, Chief Executive Officer Neill Davis said on
a conference call.  “While we anticipate challenges in the near-term given the
difficult and choppy traffic trends, we will remain confident
about the longer term prospects for our business,” Davis said.  Francesca’s lowered its estimates for its full-year profit
to as much as $1.16 a share from a maximum of $1.30, excluding
some items. Analysts anticipated $1.28.  Retailers from  Macy’s Inc. (M)  to  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  have
reported results that trailed expectations for their most recent
quarters. Macy’s last month posted its first sales drop since
2010 and profit trailed analysts’ estimates for the first time
since 2007. Wal-Mart said that earnings for the rest of the year
would be less than it previously expected as consumers were
hesitant to make discretionary purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  