-- G-20 Draft Urges Job Training, Infrastructure Spending
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   W e l l i s z
-- 2013-09-04T23:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/g-20-draft-urges-job-training-infrastructure-spending.html
Leaders of the Group of 20 meeting
in  Russia  will consider endorsing a strategy for long-term
economic growth that emphasizes steps such as infrastructure
spending and job training, according to Bloomberg BNA.  Growth prospects for 2013 “have been marked down
repeatedly over the last year, regional growth disparities
remain wide, and unemployment, particularly among youth, remains
unacceptably high,” according to a draft of the so-called
action plan to be considered at the meeting today and tomorrow
in  St. Petersburg  and obtained by Bloomberg BNA. “The recovery
is too weak, and risks remain tilted to the downside.”  The draft marks a shift from strategies adopted at previous
summits, which emphasized coordinated monetary and fiscal
policies to spur the global economy, according to Bloomberg BNA.  “Recognizing the need to push ahead more urgently with
important structural reforms, we have reset our reform agenda
along more relevant, concrete and well-targeted lines,”
according to the draft.  At the same time, the plan reiterates a commitment to
“move more rapidly toward more market-determined exchange-rate
systems and exchange rate flexibility to reflect underlying
fundamentals and avoid persistent exchange rate misalignments,”
Bloomberg BNA reported.  “We will refrain from competitive devaluation and will not
target our exchange rates for competitive purposes,” the draft
plan reads.  ‘Tail Risks’  The plan notes that G-20 members have been successful in
containing “tail risks” to recovery and improving financial
conditions, citing a rebound in private demand in the U.S.,
evidence of strength in  Japan  and the U.K., and signs of
recovery in the  euro zone .  The main challenges to global economic recovery cited in
the action plan include fragility in some parts of the European
banking sector and the risk of further delays in an EU banking
union. Other perils include slower growth in  emerging markets ,
“reflecting in some cases volatile capital flows as well as
structural challenges in some economies,” and the risk of
“another disruptive fiscal policy debate” in the U.S.
associated with the need to raise the government’s borrowing
limit later this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  