-- Gallagher to Buy Giles for $370 Million to Expand in U.K.
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-09-04T14:38:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/gallagher-to-buy-giles-for-370-million-to-expand-in-u-k-.html
Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. (AJG) , the
insurance broker that raised funds in June for acquisitions,
agreed to buy the Giles Group of Companies for 237 million
pounds ($370 million) to expand in the U.K.  Giles has more than 1,100 employees operating from 43
offices, according to a statement today from Itasca, Illinois-based Gallagher.  The deal will add new customers and help the broker provide
more services to clients with international operations,
Gallagher said. The company, with business in the U.K.,  Canada 
and  Australia , has been expanding outside the U.S. as it
competes with  Marsh & McLennan Cos. (MMC)  and Aon Plc, which are the
largest brokers. About 20 percent of Gallagher’s revenue came
from outside the U.S. last year, up from 13 percent in 2010.  “We continue to look for outstanding international
partners,” Chief Executive Officer J. Patrick Gallagher said in
the statement. With the deal, “we can significantly expand our
operations in  England  and  Scotland ” while adding business in
location such as Northern Ireland and Wales.  The deal is expected to generate more than 90 million
pounds in annual revenue and be completed next month, Gallagher
said. The broker announced the private placement of $200 million
in debt in June and said the funds could be used for
acquisitions.  The Giles transaction will be financed with free cash and
borrowing from a line of credit. Gallagher said it expects to
repay the credit line within six months, with the issuance of
long-term notes.  Transportation, Health  Gallagher rose 1.4 percent to $41.98 at 10:35 a.m. in New
York trading. The broker has climbed 21 percent this year,
beating the 16 percent advance of the Standard & Poor’s Midcap
400 Index.  Giles is one of the top five independent insurance brokers
in the U.K., according to the company’s  website . The firm acts
as a middleman between insurers and buyers for coverage
including transportation and health policies.  Gallagher said net consideration is about 233 million
pounds after accounting for the value of some acquired assets,
including those related to taxes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  