-- Gauck Commemorates Nazi Massacre With Call for Justice
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-09-04T15:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/gauck-commemorates-nazi-massacre-with-call-for-justice.html
German President Joachim Gauck,
speaking at the site of the one of the worst Nazi massacres in
 France  in World War II, said Europe must be constructed with
“dignity, justice, and solidarity.”  Gauck is the first leader from his country to visit
Oradour-sur-Glane, where the SS “Das Reich” unit killed 642
civilians on June 10, 1944, as it moved north toward the
recently opened D-Day front.  “Germany wants to build Europe, not dominate it,” Gauck
said in a speech to family members of the victims that mostly
dealt with the issue of personal responsibility. “We have found
the force to rebuild our country into a good country.”  French President Francois Hollande and Gauck were led
around the ruins of the village by 88 year-old Robert Hebras,
one of two remaining survivors among the six who lived through
the attack.  Hollande placed Gauck’s visit to the town in southwestern
France on par with Chancellor Konrad Adenauer’s 1958 visit to
General Charles de Gaulle’s hometown and Chancellor Helmut Kohl’s 1984 visit with President Francois Mitterrand to the
World War I battlefield of Verdun.  “You are the dignity of  Germany  today, capable of looking
in the face that barbarity of yesterday,” Hollande said.  Historians say the massacre was carried out to terrorize
local populations and deter Resistance attacks on German forces
rushing to Normandy after allied troops landed June 6.  The roughly 200 SS troops, which included as many as 40
members from the German speaking Alsace region of France as well
as Croatians and Ukrainians, entered the town in mid-afternoon
and locked 400 women and children in the town’s church. They
shot and burned all the men they found, before setting fire to
the church. Five men and one woman survived the massacre.  While the SS troops made no attempts to distinguish between
victims, the dead included 12 Jews and 18 Spanish Civil War
refugees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  