-- Germany’s Green Party Calls for 15 Euro a Ton Carbon Price Floor
-- B y   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-09-04T16:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/germany-s-green-party-calls-for-15-euro-a-ton-carbon-price-floor.html
Germany ’s opposition Green party
seeks to introduce a minimum national price for  carbon emissions 
that is triple the current price in  Europe  should they win
federal elections on Sept. 22.  The party aims to set a minimum price of 15 euros a metric
ton in Germany and then raise it gradually to create incentives
to close inefficient coal plants, Jens Kendzia, a party
spokesman, said today by phone from Berlin. EU carbon permits
for December jumped as much as 3.9 percent to 4.59 euros a ton
on the ICE Futures Europe exchange today.  German power production from coal, which emits about twice
as much as carbon as natural gas in electricity generation, rose
7 percent in the first seven months of the year while gas-fired
output dropped 19 percent, data from the Fraunhofer Institute
for Solar Energy Systems show. The Greens’ announcement comes as
the 28-nation European Union considers an overhaul of its 53-billion euro emissions market after prices dropped to a record
low 2.46 euros a ton in April.  “We see potential to introduce it with several partner
countries in the European Union,” Kendzia said.  The European cap-and-trade program imposes pollution limits
on about 12,000 manufacturing companies and utilities in the
region, including Germany’s largest utility EON SE and
steelmaker ArcelorMittal. The system, in which caps were set
before the economic crisis, doesn’t allow any price floors or
ceilings. The current level of pollution cost is too low to
encourage investment in clean technologies, according to the
EU’s regulatory arm.  ‘Lagging Behind’  “The European emission trading system is lagging behind
expectations so far when it comes to its contribution to climate
protection,” the Greens said in their  election program 
published in June.  The Greens will challenge  Angela Merkel ’s ruling coalition
of the Christian Union and  Liberal Democrats  in the Sept. 22
elections and may enter a coalition with the  Social Democratic
Party  to gain a majority. The Greens got 11 percent of votes in
the Germany Stern-RTL weekly election poll, published today. The
 Social Democrats  got 23 percent. The Christian Union received 40
percent, while 5 percent of voters opted for the Liberal
Democrats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  