-- Ghosn Plots Budget-Car Push With No Lift From Tesla Halo
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-09-04T08:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/ghosn-plots-budget-car-push-with-no-lift-from-tesla-halo.html
Renault SA (RNO)  Chief Executive Officer
Carlos Ghosn is pinning growth efforts on rising demand for
budget cars as his push into higher-priced electric vehicles
comes up short.  Renault and its alliance partner  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  won’t
reach a target of selling a total of 1.5 million electric cars
by 2016 as planned, Ghosn, an early proponent of battery-powered
cars who also heads the Japanese manufacturer, said in an
interview this week.  That makes Renault’s Romania-based Dacia brand even more
critical as  France ’s second-largest carmaker seeks to reduce its
dependence on sales of mid-range cars in the downtrodden
European market.  “If there’s one segment of the market which is going to
have tremendous growth, it’s the entry level” because of the
development of  emerging markets  and more cost-conscious
consumers in southern Europe, Ghosn said over lunch at Renault’s
headquarters in the Paris suburb of Boulogne-Billancourt.
“Dacia has done very well in this environment and will continue
to do very well.”  Ghosn vowed to stick to a strategy of pushing for synergies
with Nissan and expanding internationally after reorganizing
Renault’s management yesterday. The creation of two board
functions to oversee vehicle development and sales gives the 59-year-old more control of day-to-day operations following last
week’s departure of Chief Operating Officer Carlos Tavares, who
said he had CEO ambitions outside the company.  Execution Speed  “Our concerns are not strategic,” said Ghosn, who
eliminated the COO position as part of the reorganization.
“It’s much more about how to execute and at what speed to go.”  Renault will show its latest efforts to win budget-oriented
consumers when it unveils the revamped Dacia Duster at the
International Auto Show in  Frankfurt  next week. The current
version of the sport-utility vehicle starts at 10,490 euros
($13,800), less than half the price of the Volkswagen Tiguan.  The manufacturer has fared better in the European crisis
than larger French competitor  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  because of the
cooperation with Nissan and an earlier shift away from mid-market cars, which are being squeezed as Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG and other luxury-car makers push into the segment. The
14-year-old production and sales alliance with Nissan has
generated 2.7 billion euros in savings for the companies.  “Nissan and Dacia were fantastic strategic decisions”
under Ghosn’s reign, said Jens Schattner, an analyst at
Macquarie Europe Ltd. in Frankfurt. “Electric vehicles haven’t
been a success for the time being.”  Delayed Target  Combined, Renault and Nissan -- the global leaders in
battery-powered cars -- sold just 68,000 electric vehicles last
year. Consumers have balked at the higher price for the models
because the range is about one quarter of a conventional auto
and recharging can take hours.  While the shift into electric cars has been good for the
image of the brands, the 1.5 million sales target won’t be
reached until after 2016, Ghosn said, without naming a new date.  Tepid demand for the cars hasn’t stopped the share price of
 Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  from rising fivefold this year. The maker of
the Model S electric car has a market value of $20.8 billion,
roughly on par with Renault’s. The stock of the French company
has gained 31 percent in 2013.  “The industry as whole is very much still struggling with
finding a recipe for core electric vehicles,” said Christian Stadler, a management professor at the University of Warwick in
Coventry,  England . “Renault was betting on the right horse but
maybe they weren’t able to rein in ambitions far enough.”  Solid Ground  Renault plans to update its mid-term growth strategy by the
end of the year. The investment plans will be backed by an
agreement with French unions that runs to 2016 as the European
market stabilizes after six consecutive years of decline.  There’s no longer “this feeling that the ground is
collapsing beneath your feet,” said Ghosn. A return to pre-crisis levels though is “going to take some time because
fundamentally, structurally, the changes have not been made” in
Europe.  With industrywide car sales set to rebound only slowly, a
push for savings with Nissan is critical for Renault to compete
with Volkswagen, Peugeot and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)   Renault and Nissan are aiming to increase total savings to
4 billion euros by 2016. While Ghosn is the main link between
the two companies, the alliance is formalized with cross-shareholdings -- Renault holds 43 percent of Nissan, while
Nissan owns 15 percent of Renault.  Even if the Renault-Nissan alliance appears loosely knit,
the integration between the two manufacturers has made strides
like combining purchasing efforts and sharing vehicle platforms,
the CEO of both carmakers said.  “Today, I’m doing things in terms of synergies between the
two companies that I would have been completely unable to do 10
years ago,” said Ghosn.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  