-- Gold, Silver Futures Tumble Most in Eight Weeks
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2013-09-04T17:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/gold-little-changed-above-1-400-as-investors-assess-fed-syria.html
Gold and silver futures fell the
most in two months as the U.S. faced opposition from Russia on a
military strike against Syria, eroding demand for a haven.
Platinum and palladium posted the biggest declines in 10 weeks.  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  said he will only support
a United Nations resolution for military strikes if there’s
conclusive proof that the Syrian government used chemical
weapons on its people. A U.S. Senate committee is set to vote
today on President  Barack Obama ’s request for authority a
strike. The  Federal Reserve  will release a report today on U.S.
regional economies.  “Russia’s objections are taking some premium out of gold
as it’s becoming increasingly clear that U.S. will face
opposition,”  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market strategist at
Archer Financial Services Inc. in Chicago, said in a telephone
interview. “Also, the tapering worries remain” on the timing
for the Fed to scale back monetary stimulus, he said.  Gold futures for December delivery fell 1.6 percent to
close at $1,390 an ounce at 1:41 p.m. on the Comex in  New York ,
the biggest decline for a most-active contract since July 5.  The price has dropped 17 percent this year, entering a  bear
market  in April, after some investors lost faith in the metal
amid an equity rally and low U.S. inflation.  Mining Losses  The slump spurred losses for billionaire  John Paulson , the
top investor in the SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest exchange-traded
fund backed by the metal. Newcrest Mining Ltd. and other
producers have announced at least $26 billion in writedowns.  South Africa’s largest gold companies said they are closer
to a wage agreement with the union that called almost two-thirds
of the industry’s 107,000 workers out on strike overnight.  Gold futures have climbed 18 percent from a 34-month low of
$1.179.40 on June 28 after Asian demand surged for jewelry, bars
and coins.  Silver futures for December delivery fell 4.2 percent to
$23.415 an ounce on the Comex, the biggest slump since July 5.
The metal dropped the most among the 24  raw materials  in the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index. The price has tumbled 23
percent this year.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , platinum futures for
October delivery fell 2.8 percent to $1,494.70 an ounce, the
largest decline since June 26.  Palladium futures for December delivery fell 2.7 percent to
$698.25 an ounce, the biggest drop since June 26. The price
declined for the fifth straight session, the longest slump since
October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  