-- Golden Nugget Hire Shows Online Gaming’s European History
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-09-04T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/golden-nugget-hire-shows-online-gaming-s-european-history.html
Landry’s Inc., owner of the  Golden
Nugget  casinos, hired Thomas Winter, a former head of Gibraltar-based gaming website  Betclic Ltd. , to run its online business as
the company prepares to start service this year.  Recruiting Winter, 39, will advance Houston-based Landry’s
plan to introduce Internet betting in New Jersey and  Nevada  as
early as this year, Steve Scheinthal, executive vice president
and general counsel for the firm, said in an interview.  U.S. casino operators are tapping European executives to
draw on their expertise in an industry that is legally
established in 10 countries. Online gambling generated almost
$13.8 billion in revenue last year in Europe, and the U.S.
market, led by Nevada, New Jersey and  Delaware , could expand to
$7.4 billion by 2017, according to H2 Gaming Capital.  Winter, who will be vice president of online gaming, spent
four years at Betclic serving as chief operating officer then
chief executive officer, as it expanded to $200 million in
revenue from $20 million over three years, according to
Landry’s. He moved to Expekt.com, a Scandinavian online gaming
operator before it merged with Betclic.  As part of its online push, Landry’s Golden Nugget said
today that it is partnering with  Bally Technologies Inc. (BYI)  to
provide Internet gaming products and support. Las Vegas-based
Bally last year  acquired  the online gaming business of
Chiligaming, a company with offices in  France , the U.K. and
Malta.  Low Tax  “They had the experience with gaming in Europe and we
didn’t want to do business with someone who will compete against
us here,” Scheinthal said.  Among the markets where online gambling is legal in Europe,
the British territory of Gibraltar is an attractive location
because of its low taxation status.  New Jersey, Nevada and Delaware are the first three states
to legalize online betting in the U.S. In New Jersey, online
operators are required to partner with casinos located in the
state. Las Vegas-based  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR) , the largest
owner of casinos in the U.S., plans to offer online games with
Gibraltar-based 888 Holdings Plc.  MGM Resorts International (MGM)  and
 Boyd Gaming Corp. (BYD)  have partnered with  Bwin.Party Digital
Entertainment Plc (BPTY) , also based in  Gibraltar .  Collaborations and in some cases consolidations between
European and U.S. gaming companies are likely to continue,
according to David Berman, an investment banker with Macquarie
Capital USA Inc. in Los Angeles.  “The Europeans are the only companies with real-money
gaming online expertise on any scale -- yet the U.S. gaming
operators have the gaming licenses, customer data bases and
local knowledge,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  