-- Google Says Mosley Suit Over Sex-Party Search Defies Free Speech
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-09-04T17:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/google-says-mosley-suit-over-sex-party-search-defies-free-speech.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  said a lawsuit by Max Mosley, Formula One’s former president, asking it to block any
further search results referring to a “Nazi-themed” sex party
would create unprecedented censorship on the Internet.  Lawyers for Mosley asked a French court today to force
Google, the owner of the world’s most-used Internet search
engine, to build software filters that would detect and delete
certain content, Daphne Keller, an associate general counsel at
Google, said in a post on its website.  “We have removed hundreds of pages for Mr. Mosley, and
stand ready to remove others he identifies,” Keller said. “But
the law does not support Mr. Mosley’s demand for the
construction of an unprecedented new Internet censorship tool.”  Mosley, 73, won a 60,000 pound ($94,000) breach-of-privacy
award in a U.K. court in 2008 from News Corp.’s now-defunct News
of the World newspaper for publishing the story on a Nazi-themed
“orgy,” along with a video, without contacting him. A judge
ruled there was no Nazi theme and the story wasn’t in the public
interest. Mosley won a similar ruling in  France  in 2011 when a
judge ordered News Corp. to pay as much as 32,000 euros in fines
and fees over the story.  Mosley in 2011 told a U.K. inquiry investigating the phone-hacking scandal at News Corp. that he filed suits against Google
in  Germany  and France over the search results.  ‘People’s Dignity’  France and Germany are “pilot cases” and depending on how
successful Mosley is, and if he doesn’t reach an agreement with
Google out of court, there will be more lawsuits, said Tanja
Irion, a lawyer representing Mosley at law firm Irion in
Hamburg, Germany. The suits could be filed in other EU countries
and in Mountain View,  California , where Google is based, she
said.  “The case is very important, not only for Mr. Mosley,
also generally for the protection of people’s dignity and
privacy on the Internet,” Irion said.  The German case will be heard by the Hamburg court on
September 20, the court’s press office said today. Rulings in
both cases can be appealed.  The case raises similar issues with a Belgian suit that
ended up in the EU’s top court, testing the scope of the powers
of national courts. The EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg in a
precedent-setting case ruled in 2011 that a national court
cannot order an Internet-service provider to install a filtering
system to prevent illegal downloading of files.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  