-- Google-Motorola Deal Foreshadows Challenge Awaiting Microsoft
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-09-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/google-motorola-deal-foreshadows-challenge-awaiting-microsoft.html
If  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility
deal is anything to go by,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  investors will need
to brace for diminished profitability now that it has agreed to
purchase  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s handset business.  The profit margin at Google has shrunk by more than 7
percentage points since the search provider purchased the
struggling hardware unit in May of 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Motorola business posted an operating
loss equal to 34 percent of sales in the most recent quarter.  Google’s experience with Motorola may hold lessons for
Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, which announced
plans on Sept. 2 to buy Nokia’s handset unit, stepping up an
effort to challenge  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Google in the smartphone
market. Nokia’s devices and services business swung to a loss of
more than $1.4 billion after earning almost that much in 2011.  “Hardware margins are always much lower than software,”
said  Sameet Sinha , an analyst with B. Riley & Co in San
Francisco. “Microsoft will have to bear the brunt. You will see
margin compression. There’s no doubt about it.”  Google, based in Mountain View,  California , spent $12.4
billion on Motorola Mobility last year to expand into the
mobile-hardware business after 14 years in which Web advertising
accounted for almost all of its revenue. The purchase also gave
Google a trove of about 17,000 patents to protect Android
devices in legal disputes with competitors.  Staff Cuts  Google wasted no time cutting costs after the deal,
announcing staff reductions of about 4,000, or 20 percent, in
2012. Earlier this year, the company made plans for 1,200 more
job cuts, and Google also sold the set-top box piece of Motorola
Mobility.  It wasn’t enough. The company’s margin for earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, fell
to 29 percent in the second quarter from 33 percent a year ago.
It was 37 percent in the first quarter of 2012, prior to the
purchase of Motorola Mobility, located near  Chicago .  “Google is clearly driven by advertising, and the folks
from Chicago never understood that kind of business,” said Greg
Tarr, founding partner of CrossPacific Capital, a seed-stage
fund in Palo Alto, California, and longtime investor in mobile.
“You have a cultural clash.”  Matt Kallman, a spokesman for Google, declined to comment.  A similar divide is likely to disrupt the Microsoft-Nokia
relationship, as traditional handset manufacturers are forced to
adapt to a world driven by applications and services, Tarr said.
Nokia, based in Espoo,  Finland , is transferring 32,000 employees
to Microsoft, including Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop, a
former Microsoft executive.  Mobile Desperation  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , is scrambling to
succeed in mobile, where users are increasingly accessing apps
and the Web as they shift away from personal computers. With 3.3
percent of the global smartphone market, Microsoft is chasing
Google’s Android software, which controls 79 percent, and Apple
at 14 percent, according to researcher  Gartner Inc.   A deal struck by Microsoft in 2011 to feature its Windows
Mobile operating system on Nokia devices failed to narrow the
market-share gap.  Microsoft’s margins are already shrinking from its push
into hardware, primarily with the Xbox gaming console and more
recently Surface tablets. Microsoft could reduce costs by
cutting Nokia staff or outsourcing some of Nokia’s
manufacturing, something that Apple does with the iPhone,
according to Brad Reback, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co.
in Atlanta.  “It will be highly dependent on your average selling price
for phones, gross profit on the phones and how many people they
ultimately fire from Nokia,” Reback said.  Declining Margins  Microsoft’s Ebitda margin narrowed to 35 percent in the
fiscal fourth quarter, down from 40 percent a year earlier.
Peter Wootton, a spokesman for Microsoft, didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  Google isn’t writing off Motorola. Early last month the
company unveiled a new flagship phone called Moto X, a 4.7-inch
device with customizable colors and hardware, and improved
battery life. It’s Google’s first homegrown smartphone since the
acquisition.  And for Microsoft, while hardware is costlier to build and
deliver than software, the company will be able to increase
revenue and overall profitability by selling more, even at a
lower margin, said Amy Hood, Microsoft’s chief financial
officer. Hood said the Windows Phone business will end up with
higher operating income once Nokia is integrated than it had
without the hardware business.  Gaining Relevance  Beyond the margin hit, establishing relevance in the mobile
ecosystem is critical for Microsoft, said Maribel Lopez, founder
of Lopez Research LLC in San Francisco. The company needs
innovative applications for Windows devices to woo new
customers, and the acquisition shows developers of those apps
that Microsoft is determined to succeed in mobile, she said.  “No one has been taking them seriously in the operating-system game for years,” Lopez said. “What Microsoft
desperately needed was to make people understand it was serious
about being the next-generation operating system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  