-- Graft Probe Threatens PetroChina as Executives Targeted
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o ,   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2013-09-05T09:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/graft-probe-threatens-petrochina-as-executives-targeted-energy.html
PetroChina Co. (857) , the oil producer
that became the first $1 trillion company, is the target of a
widening anti-corruption probe that threatens the biggest
shakeup of China’s oil industry in 15 years.  Former Chairman  Jiang Jiemin , who left PetroChina in March,
was removed from his post as head of the state assets regulator
and is under investigation, the official Xinhua News Agency said
Sept. 2. Five days earlier, PetroChina said it removed four
senior managers after authorities started a probe.  The investigations add to the woes of a company that’s lost
more than $768 billion in value -- almost as much as the Dutch
economy -- since 2007. The stock fell the most in two years on
Aug. 28 in Hong Kong as the scrutiny adds risks to a business
already weighed down by a slowing economy and government
controls on fuel prices.  “The probes and their possible escalation could
potentially cause a huge reshuffle in PetroChina and its
parent,” said Laban Yu, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Jefferies
Group LLC. He said the government’s actions were reminiscent of
the investigation of former Railway Minister Liu Zhijun, which
led to the breakup of the railroad ministry and an industry
reorganization.  Tackle Graft  The PetroChina probes follow last month’s five-day trial of
ousted Politburo member Bo Xilai on bribery, embezzlement and
abuse-of-power charges. The new investigations highlight
President Xi Jinping’s willingness to tackle graft, which he has
said threatens the communist party’s 64-year grip on power. In
July, a court gave former Railway Minister Liu Zhijun a
suspended death sentence for abuse of power and taking bribes,
the ministry having been dismantled earlier in the year.  “The government is looking to seriously overhaul
monopolistic state-owned enterprises and the energy sector is
among those being targeted for structural reforms,” said Joseph Cheng, a professor of political science at City University of
Hong Kong. “The new government first needs to show it is
serious about tackling corruption.”  China  broke up the former Ministry of Petroleum Industry in
1998 and established China National Petroleum Corp., the parent
of PetroChina, and China Petrochemical Corp. Most of the
country’s oil and gas exploration assets went to CNPC, while
China Petrochemical got refineries.  “It’s possible that the central government may use the
investigations as an opportunity to break up PetroChina and CNPC
into some smaller companies and allow private money to get in,”
said Yu at Jefferies.  Government Instrument  The government uses its big three oil companies, of which
PetroChina is the largest, to control domestic fuel prices and
secure energy supplies from overseas to meet the burgeoning
needs of the world’s second-biggest economy. PetroChina
spokesman  Mao Zefeng  in an e-mailed response to questions said
the company looks after the interests of all shareholders.  Jiang, appointed chairman of PetroChina in May 2007,
presided over its $8.9 billion  Shanghai  share sale in November
that year, when the energy company’s shares topped the $1
trillion mark. The share sale came a month after the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average (INDU)  crossed the 14,000 mark for the first time
and before the global financial crisis sent equity markets into
a tailspin. From the start to the end of Jiang’s tenure,
PetroChina shares slumped 80 percent, while Chevron Corp. rose
44 percent and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  climbed 6.6 percent.  Last month, PetroChina reported half-yearly  net income ,
excluding one-time gains, at a nine-year low as government
controls on natural gas and oil product prices forced it to sell
fuels below cost. Its shares have  tumbled  21 percent in Hong
Kong this year.  Las Vegas  PetroChina, which at $90 billion has the highest debt of
any energy company after Petroleo Brasileiro SA, last year
employed about 548,000 people, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s almost equal to the population of Las Vegas.
Chevron, of a similar market value, has 62,000 staff.  PetroChina’s volatility-adjusted returns in Shanghai have
declined 2.8 percent since it started trading in November 2007,
making it the worst performer among the world’s oil companies
with a market value above $100 billion, according to the
Bloomberg Riskless Return Ranking.  “The Chinese government is the invisible hand behind
PetroChina’s stock performance,” Lin Boqiang, director of
Energy Economics Research Center at Xiamen University in Fujian
province in southeast China. “PetroChina functions like a proxy
for the government in stock markets, rather than a
representative of investors trying to maximize profit.”  Contrasting Performance  PetroChina’s slide since 2007 contrasts with its earlier
performance after listing in Hong Kong in 2000. Berkshire
Hathaway Inc.’s  Warren Buffett  called PetroChina “absolutely a
first-class company” after selling his holding in the company
in 2007 for $4 billion, an eightfold gain on his investment.
Berkshire Hathaway, which bought the stock in 2003, was
PetroChina’s biggest shareholder after CNPC.  In the six years before the Shanghai share sale, the
company’s returns adjusted for price swings in Hong Kong were
the highest in the $100 billion-plus group, and eight times more
than Exxon Mobil, the world’s biggest oil company, the Bloomberg
Riskless Return Ranking shows.  The government’s probe was extended on Sept. 2 after Wison
Engineering Services Co. said its founder, Hua Bangsong, is
assisting China’s authorities in their investigations. Wison, a
services provider to chemical factories and oil refineries,
counted PetroChina as a major client. Templeton Asset Management
Ltd. also said it had cut its holding in PetroChina to 4.4
percent from 5.3 percent.  PetroChina Slump  None of the officials named in the government’s PetroChina-related probes have been available for comment since the
investigations were announced last week. No formal charges have
yet been made.  PetroChina’s slump has weighed on the benchmark 995-member
 Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP)  index, which has declined 6.5 percent this
year and is heading for its third year of declines in four. The
explorer and refiner has the highest weighting of 8.5 percent on
the index, while  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) , Asia’s
biggest refiner and the unit of China Petrochemical known as
Sinopec, accounts for 2.7 percent.  The importance and size of the three big Chinese oil
companies, which include  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , the nation’s biggest
offshore oil and gas explorer, leaves global investors with
little choice, said Seth Freeman, San Francisco-based chief
executive officer at EM Capital Management LLC.  Overseas Deals  “The fundamental reason investors buy these companies is
because they are so large and important that they are included
in most indexes used by institutional investors to benchmark
portfolio performance,” said Freeman, who invests in  emerging
markets , including China. “Essentially, investors must buy
these companies. In terms of Chinese energy policy, that would
be a key risk factor that is normally included in the investment
process and an area requiring constant monitoring.”  Chinese companies have completed 82 overseas oil and gas
purchases worth a total of $101 billion in the past five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The companies paid an
average premium of 49 percent for purchases in 2012, compared
with 31 percent for all energy deals last year. Cnooc agreed to
pay a 65 percent premium to buy Canada’s Nexen Inc. for $15.1
billion, the biggest overseas acquisition by a Chinese company,
in July of last year.  “There are occasions when everyone’s scratching their
heads wondering why such a high price is paid,” said
Jefferies’s Yu. “The reason is PetroChina and the others want
to protect China’s energy security, even though such an
insurance may come with a high premium.”  Jiang’s Tenure  During Jiang’s tenure PetroChina spent almost $16 billion
on acquiring overseas assets to meet China’s growing demand.  “It’s true our business is deeply affected by China’s
policy environment, but the interests of all of our shareholders
are well protected through good corporate governance and
transparent operations,” PetroChina spokesman Zefeng said. “We
may have bought some assets that were a bit higher in price than
average price levels, but we have to make decisions in an ever-changing market.”  Since its Shanghai debut, PetroChina’s  net income  has
dropped in four of the last six years. China is moving to reform
its state-owned enterprises and implemented measures this year
to allow fuel prices to more closely track global crude swings.  “The state-owned background is a double-edged sword,”
said Xiamen University’s Lin. “PetroChina’s profit margins may
improve following the pricing reforms on fuel and natural gas
this year and the next few years, but PetroChina’s profit level
will only stay at where the government allows it to.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Haas in Hong Kong at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  