-- Michigan’s Oakland County Wants Delayed Sale Finished This Month
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-09-04T19:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/michigan-s-oakland-county-wants-delayed-sale-finished-this-month.html
Michigan ’s Oakland County wants to
issue bonds this month after delaying a $350 million offer
planned for Sept. 10, said Deputy Executive Robert Daddow.  The sale would be the biggest from the eighth-most-populous
state since Detroit filed a record municipal bankruptcy on July
18, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The county on Sept. 9 will
have a schedule of what needs to be done to complete the sale by
its Sept. 30 fiscal year-end, Daddow said.  The postponement is a result of officials falling behind in
assembling bond documents, Daddow said. Genesee County, Battle
Creek and Saginaw County delayed deals after Detroit’s filing
because investors demanded interest rates that were higher than
they were willing to pay. Oakland County, which borders  Detroit 
to the north, is rated Aaa by Moody’s Investors Service.  “We’re still trying to get it in this fiscal year,”
Daddow said. That timing is feasible as long as people “don’t
start slipping on their assignments,” he said.  Municipal-bond sales have withered in Michigan since
Detroit’s bankruptcy. Localities issued just $71.5 million of
long-term debt last month, the slowest wave in at least 10
years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Oakland County has never postponed a deal before, said
Daddow, who said he has been with the municipality for 20 years.
He said it’s the first negotiated issue in his tenure.  Proceeds will refinance debt issued in 2007 for retiree
medical benefits. The deal is the largest since Michigan’s State
Building Authority issued $583 million during the last week of
June, Bloomberg data show.  The county is allowed to issue debt to finance other post-employment benefits, known as OPEB, under Michigan law. The plan
requires approval from state Treasurer Andy Dillon.  “We’ve never done anything as complex as this effort,
pertaining to the call features and the fact that it’s an OPEB
bond and it’s new legislation,” Daddow said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  