-- Microsoft Sets Xbox One Release as Sony Faceoff Awaits
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-09-04T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/microsoft-sets-xbox-one-release-as-sony-faceoff-awaits.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  plans to release the
Xbox One video-game console on Nov. 22, a week before Black
Friday, and said it increased the number of units available for
its holiday faceoff against  Sony (6758)  Corp.  Consumer demand spurred Microsoft to speed production after
retailers sold out of pre-order allotments, said  Yusuf Mehdi ,
chief marketing officer for the Redmond, Washington-based
software maker’s interactive entertainment division. Sales this
year will top the debut of the current  Xbox 360 , he said,
declining to discuss specifics.  “We’re building more consoles for day one and for the
holidays than we’ve ever done,” Mehdi said in a telephone
interview. “It is on track to be the biggest launch by a wide
margin, much bigger than what we did for Xbox 360.”  Microsoft and Sony are betting that faster machines
allowing for features such as motion capture and immersive
graphics will entice consumers whose tastes are shifting toward
mobile games played on tablets and smartphones. Microsoft, which
is buying  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s handset unit, is stregthening a push into
hardware as demand weakens for programs such as Windows that
made it the world’s largest software maker.  Microsoft also has increased the speed of the Xbox One’s
central processing unit to 1.75 GHz, 10 percent more than
previously targeted, Mehdi said.  “You are now able to have even better fidelity of the
games,” Mehdi said. “The system itself will work much
faster.”  Console Prices  Retailers began taking orders for the $499 Xbox One and
Sony’s coming PlayStation 4 in June. Last month, Grapevine,
Texas-based  GameStop Corp. (GME)  raised its profit forecast, citing
strength in console orders.  Microsoft, the top U.S.  seller  of consoles for more than
two years, will debut the Xbox One a week later than the $399
PS4, which hits American stores on Nov. 15.  Nintendo Co. (7974)  last
week cut the price of the Wii U by $50 to $299. The console,
introduced last year, has missed company sales targets.  Black Friday, the day after Thanksgiving, is the
traditional start to the shopping season in the U.S., with
retailers offering discounts to draw customers.  Microsoft will release the Xbox One in 13 countries all on
the same day, giving it a week’s head start in  Europe , where the
PS4 starts selling on Nov. 29. Sony will reach stores in 32
markets this year.  Microsoft, which initially targeted 21 countries for its
debut, last month cut the number to 13 to ensure larger markets
have sufficient supplies.  NFL Highlights  Michael Pachter , an analyst with Wedbush Securities in Los
Angeles, expects Sony to sell 3 million consoles this year and
12 million in 2014, compared with 2.5 million and 10 million,
respectively, for Microsoft.  Microsoft fell 4.6 percent to $31.88 yesterday in  New York ,
after announcing that it’s spending 5.44 billion euros ($7.2
billion) to buy Nokia’s devices and services unit. The shares
have  climbed  19 percent this year.  Xbox One is an attempt to merge television watching with
video game playing, Mehdi said. Microsoft has teamed with
partners including the  National Football League  to offer
features such as viewing highlights and game scores.  Microsoft has no plans to offer pay-TV channels in
competition with established providers, nor to spin off the
video-game unit, Mehdi said. Xbox One is part of a companywide
strategy to offer multiple devices to consumers, he said.  That strategy was underscored by the acquisition Nokia’s
handset business. The unit accounted for more than half of the
revenue for the Espoo, Finland-based company, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We know we live in a multi-device world,” Mehdi said.
“The people between 18 and 30 -- 80 percent of them are looking
at a phone or tablet while watching TV.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  