-- Timah Declares Force Majeure on Tin Exports Amid Trading Order
-- B y   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2013-09-04T09:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/timah-declares-force-majeure-on-tin-exports-amid-trading-order.html
PT Timah (TINS) , the world’s third-largest
tin producer, has joined other Indonesian smelters in halting
shipments this month as a rule requiring ingot to be traded
locally before export hampered transactions with customers.  Timah has declared force majeure since Aug. 30, when the
trading rule came into force, to 19 buyers with long-term
contracts, said Timah President Director Sukrisno. Five tin
producers, including Timah, now trade physical contracts at the
Indonesia Commodity and Derivatives Exchange.  “We have asked our buyers to be members of ICDX and in
principal, they have agreed to,” Sukrisno said by phone. Timah
brought forward some shipments scheduled for this month to
August before the trading rule started, he said.  Indonesia , the world’s largest exporter, is trying to
manage shipments and boost revenue by requiring tin to be traded
domestically before export and by raising purity standards.
Thirty smelters have stopped exports this month because the
Jakarta Futures Exchange is still waiting for approval to trade
tin contracts, Hidayat Arsani, president of the Indonesian Tin
Mining Association, said yesterday.  Tin for three months delivery fell 0.4 percent to $21,500 a
ton on the London Metal Exchange at 10:17 a.m. local time.
Futures jumped as much as 1.8 percent yesterday on the report
that Indonesian smelters in Bangka Belitung, the country’s main
producing region, had stopped exports.  “Our buyers can receive our tin by becoming members on
ICDX or through companies that are already members,” Timah
Corporate Secretary Agung Nugroho said in mobile-phone text
message. Timah has a total of 40 buyers, including for spot, and
only four have registered as ICDX members, he said.  ICDX, based in Jakarta, started trading five dollar-denominated tin contracts on Aug. 30. The bourse has 12 tin
members, according to the company’s statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  