-- Time Warner Cable Wins Ruling on Independent Programming
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-09-04T17:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/time-warner-cable-wins-ruling-on-independent-programming.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and a trade
group won a U.S. court ruling freeing cable operators from a
requirement to keep carrying independent channels during fee
disputes.  The U.S. Appeals Court in  New York  said today that the
Federal Communications Commission violated administrative rules
by not giving sufficient notice in 2011 when it adopted the
standstill requirement for continued carriage as disputes were
resolved.  The court upheld the underlying rule that requires cable
companies to offer fair terms to independent channels seeking
display on multichannel systems.  “The challenged standstill rule was not promulgated in
accordance” with the Administrative Procedures Act, the appeals
court wrote in its opinion. The court said the FCC could try
again to pass the rule following proper procedure.  “I am pleased that the court of appeals upheld the
commission’s program carriage rules against constitutional
challenge,” Mignon Clyburn, acting chairwoman of the FCC, said
in an e-mailed statement. “These rules remain necessary to
prevent anticompetitive conduct by video programming
distributors, and they empower consumers to access a rich and
diverse mix of programming.”  Competing Providers  The FCC had ordered cable companies to continue contracts
with independent networks as the agency heard disputes about
terms for carrying the channels. The action was aimed at keeping
cable companies from squelching competing video providers.  At the time, the  National Cable & Telecommunications
Association , the plaintiff alongside Time Warner Cable in
today’s case, in an e-mailed statement from its president,
 Michael Powell , said the FCC’s action showed “a disturbing lack
of appreciation of the potential impact of government
intervention on consumers or the marketplace.”  Members of the Washington-based trade group include the
largest U.S. cable company,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , and No. 2 Time
Warner.  Justin Venech, a spokesman for New York-based Time Warner
Cable, said in an e-mail that the company was pleased with the
standstill ruling. Brian Dietz, a spokesman for the trade group,
said he wasn’t immediately able to comment.  ‘Programming Costs’  Requiring carriage during adjudication “could undermine
good-faith business negotiations,” chill cable companies’
willingness to test new networks “and drive up programming
costs for consumers,” Kathryn Zachem, Comcast’s senior vice
president for regulatory and state legislative affairs, said in
a phone call to an FCC official in 2011, according to a
regulatory filing.  The FCC when it passed the rule said without a standstill,
cable companies could retaliate against independent vendors that
filed complaints by ceasing to carry their programming. Vendors
may feel compelled to agree to cable company demands that
violate U.S. rules rather than lose carriage, the FCC said in an
order.  The case is Time Warner Cable Inc. v. Federal
Communications Commission, 11-04138,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for
the Second Circuit ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at   sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at   tshields3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 