-- IMF Sees Acute Market Pressure for Some Emerging Economies
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-09-04T21:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/imf-sees-acute-market-pressure-for-some-emerging-economies-1-.html
Developed economies are turning into
global growth engines as some of their emerging-market
counterparts decelerate amid “acute” market pressures, the
 International Monetary Fund  said.  “Global growth remains subdued but its underlying dynamics
are changing,” the IMF said today in a report for leaders of
the Group of 20 nations meeting this week in  St. Petersburg ,
 Russia . “Momentum is projected to come mainly from advanced
economies, where output is expected to accelerate.”  Emerging markets , which helped pull the world out of a
recession after the global financial crisis, now face an exodus
of cash and sliding currencies in anticipation of the  Federal
Reserve ’s eventual tapering of its $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases. Expansion in those countries is 2.5 percentage points
below 2010 levels, with Brazil, China and India accounting for
the slowdown, according to the IMF.  “Emerging economies were hardest hit following Fed
‘tapering’ remarks and external financing pressures remain
heightened in some economies,” IMF economists wrote, citing
Brazil, India, Indonesia, Turkey and  South Africa . “More
recently market pressures have been more concentrated on
particular economies with important financial or macroeconomic
vulnerabilities.”  Advanced Economies  In contrast, advanced economies are showing encouraging
signs, with private demand in the U.S. strengthening, stimulus
showing results in Japan and the euro region emerging from
recession, according to the report.  The IMF assessment is an update of a July report, in which
it cut its forecast for the world economy this year for a fifth
consecutive time.  In emerging economies, “policy makers should allow
exchange rates to respond to changing fundamentals but may need
to guard against risks of disorderly adjustment, including
through intervention to smooth excessive volatility,” the IMF
said in today’s report, while adding responses need to be
country-specific.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  