-- Tin Backwardation Is Widest Since 2010 on Concern About Supply
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-09-04T16:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/tin-backwardation-is-widest-since-2010-on-concern-about-supply.html
Tin’s premium to the contract for
delivery in three months reached the widest level since 2010 on
concern about restricted supplies from  Indonesia , the world’s
biggest exporter of the metal.  Tin for immediate delivery settled at a $125-a-metric-ton
premium to the contract for delivery in three months on the
London Metal Exchange. That was the largest backwardation since
Aug. 17, 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Higher
prices for nearer-dated contracts relative to later dates
usually signal limited supplies.  PT Timah, the world’s third-largest producer, declared
force majeure on tin shipments since Aug. 30, President Director
Sukrisno said today. Stockpiles of the metal tracked by the LME
fell the most in almost five weeks on Sept. 2, exchange data
showed. Orders to withdraw the metal from warehouses rose 4.8
percent today after jumping the most in seven weeks last week.  “Stocks are very low and Indonesians are not shipping, so
that situation is not going to get better,” Steve Hardcastle,
head of client services for industrial commodities at Sucden
Financial Ltd. in  London , said by phone. Traders who bet on
lower prices with short sales rolled positions forward to secure
supplies so they can meet obligations to deliver metal, he said.  Tin for delivery in three months added 1.5 percent to
$21,900 a ton by 5:40 p.m. on the LME, the only climb among the
six main metals traded on the exchange. Prices rose the most in
two weeks yesterday. Tin for delivery in September was $40 a ton
higher than the October contract.  Trading Approval  Indonesian smelters stopped exports this month because the
Jakarta Futures Exchange is still waiting for approval to trade
tin contracts, Hidayat Arsani, president of the Indonesian Tin
Mining Association, said yesterday. Rules that took effect July
1 require tin shipments to be of 99.9 percent purity, compared
with 99.85 percent previously.  Force majeure is a legal clause freeing companies from
contract terms because of conditions beyond their control.  “The declaration by PT Timah is making people very
nervous,” said Herwig Schmidt, London-based head of sales at
Triland Metals Ltd., one of the 11 companies with the right to
trade on the LME floor.  Withdrawal  orders  for tin, used mostly to make solders for
joining metals together, reached 4,375 tons, LME data showed
today. Stocks tracked by the exchange declined for a third
session to 14,790 tons. About 30 percent of inventories now
await delivery, mostly in  Malaysia .  Tin demand will exceed supply by 3,000 tons next year, a
fifth straight deficit, according to BNP Paribas SA.  Indonesia aims to manage shipments and boost revenue by
requiring tin to be traded domestically before export and by
raising purity standards. Timah is one of five producers that
now trade physical contracts on the Indonesia Commodity and
Derivatives Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  