-- India’s Swaps Climb as Rupee Decline Fuels Inflation Concern
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-09-04T05:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/india-s-swaps-climb-as-rupee-decline-fuels-inflation-concern.html
India’s  interest-rate swaps  advanced
for a second day as the rupee’s weakness fueled concern
inflation will accelerate at a time when oil costs are rising.  The Indian currency fell to within 0.3 percent of a record 
low today and has tumbled 16 percent against the dollar in three
months. Brent crude prices climbed 1.5 percent this week to
$115.72 a barrel on concern a possible U.S. strike on  Syria  will
disrupt supplies, and are up 13 percent this quarter. India
imports about 80 percent of its oil requirements.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, jumped five
basis points to 9.69 percent as of 11:02 a.m. in Mumbai, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The stark rupee decline is feeding into inflation and
raising imported fuel costs,” DBS Bank Ltd. economists
including Singapore-based Radhika Rao wrote in a research report
today. “The liquidity measures to support the currency instead
intensified growth risks and narrowed the scope for the monetary
policy to assume a growth supportive stance.”  The Reserve Bank of  India  raised two interest rates and
tightened cash supply in mid-July. The yield on government bonds
due 2023 jumped in each of the past three months, the longest
such run for  benchmark  10-year debt since August 2010, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The surge in yields following the
funding squeeze prompted the central bank to announce a plan to
buy back long-dated debt.  Bonds Rise  The rupee could sink past 70 per dollar, Arvind Virmani, a
member of the RBI’s advisory panel on monetary policy, said in
an e-mailed response to questions yesterday. Raghuram Rajan, a
former economist at the International Monetary Fund who has been
the top adviser in India’s Finance Ministry since 2012, takes
charge as RBI’s governor today for a three-year term.  The central bank’s struggle to stem the rupee’s drop has
hurt its credibility and an “external shock could push it above
70,” Virmani said.  Wholesale prices  in India rose 5.79 percent in July from a
year earlier, compared with a 4.86 percent advance the previous
month, official data show. That was the fastest pace since
February. The economy expanded 4.4 percent in the quarter ended
June 30, according to data on Aug. 30, the slowest since 2009.  The yield on the 7.16 percent government bonds due May 2023
slid 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 8.47 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  