-- India Parliament Lower House Votes to Allow FDI in Pension Funds
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-09-04T13:36:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/india-parliament-lower-house-votes-to-allow-fdi-in-pension-funds.html
India ’s lower house of parliament
passed a bill allowing overseas investment in the country’s
pension funds for the first time, as the government tries to
revive economic growth and stem the rupee’s slide.  The bill caps ownership by foreign companies at 26 percent
in local businesses selling pensions. The threshold for foreign
direct investment in pensions will be kept in line with the cap
for insurance, which was opened to overseas companies in 2000.
The legislation now needs the approval of the upper house.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is pushing for the changes
after winning parliamentary backing for two key bills appealing
to India’s poor voters as he seeks to return his party to power
in elections next year. His second term has been marred by graft
scandals, the  weakest growth  in a decade and capital outflows
that contributed to the rupee’s 18 percent plunge against the
dollar this year.  “This is one reform where the government has been
successful in building consensus with other political parties in
parliament,” said D.H. Pai Panandiker, president of the RPG
Foundation, a New Delhi-based economic research group. “It is
aimed at helping improve the economy. Unfortunately for the
government it is going to take time to have any impact.”  The pension bill will also give statutory power to the
country’s pension regulator, which has been functioning as an
interim body for a decade without parliamentary approval. The
government won support from the opposition for the legislation
by accepting some of their suggestions.  New Products  Allowing foreign firms to invest in pension funds will
bring in new practices, products and higher operating margins,
according to Vishal Narnolia, a Mumbai-based analyst at SMC
 Global Securities Ltd. (GLBS)   The government is also negotiating with opposition parties
to raise the FDI cap in insurance to 49 percent from the current
26 percent. Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram told
reporters after today’s vote that the government will not try to
pass the insurance bill in the current session of parliament
that ends this week.  Singh’s government has in the past been rebuffed in its
efforts to lift the caps on insurance and pensions by rival
political parties. Both bills have been introduced in Parliament
before, with the government unable to win the support of groups
ideologically opposed to private companies investing in pension
or insurance funds, many of them state run.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at   hgovind@bloomberg.net  