-- India Rupee Falls Toward Record After Oil Rises on Syria Concern
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-09-04T05:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/india-rupee-falls-toward-record-after-oil-rises-on-syria-concern.html
India’s rupee fell to within 0.4
percent of a record low after  oil prices  surged on concern the
U.S. is moving closer to striking Syria.  Brent crude rose 1.2 percent yesterday as House of
Representatives Speaker  John Boehner  and Majority Leader  Eric
Cantor  backed President  Barack Obama ’s call for military action.
The rupee could sink to unprecedented levels beyond 70 per
dollar and the  Reserve Bank  of India’s struggle to stem the drop
has hurt its credibility, said Arvind Virmani, one of the
central bank’s advisers, as the currency tops incoming Governor
 Raghuram Rajan ’s agenda.  “Syria is just one of the concerns India is facing,” said
Naveen Raghuvanshi, a trader at  Development Credit Bank Ltd. (DEVB)  in
Mumbai. “I would be cautious today as Rajan may make an
announcement that could spur gains in the rupee.”  The rupee slid 0.8 percent to 68.26 per dollar as of 10:06
a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. It fell to 68.62 earlier, approaching an all-time low
of 68.8450 touched Aug. 28. The currency has weakened 19.4
percent this year, set for the worst loss since 1991 when the
nation had to pawn its gold for loans to pay for imports.  The rupee pared today’s losses on speculation the RBI sold
dollars, according to two traders, who asked not to be named as
the information isn’t public.  Higher crude prices and a weaker rupee threaten to stoke
inflation in India, which imports about 80 percent of its oil.
The nation had a record  current-account  deficit in the year
ended March 31 and the economy grew last quarter at the  slowest 
pace since 2009, according to official data.  New Governor  Rajan, who predicted the 2008 global financial crisis and
is a former International Monetary Fund chief economist, has
been appointed RBI governor for three years. He brings with him
an authority that could usher in changes at the RBI and
influence reforms both at financial regulators and in the
 Finance Ministry , Virmani said in e-mailed comments yesterday.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 0.9 percent to
69.81 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were little changed at 70.30. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  