-- Indian Coal Buyers Seek Deferrals as Rupee Slump Raises Costs
-- B y   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i
-- 2013-09-04T03:59:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/indian-coal-buyers-seek-deferrals-as-rupee-slump-raises-costs.html
Coal buyers in India, the world’s
third-largest user, are negotiating to defer imports from
 Indonesia  as the slump in the rupee makes them more expensive.  Buyers are asking to delay shipments of Indonesian thermal
coal for as long as one month as they seek to negotiate lower
prices with suppliers, Ramli Ahmad, the managing director of PT
Asia Pacific Mining Resources, which trades 2 million metric
tons a year, said at a conference in Balikpapan, Indonesia
yesterday. “Some are not clear on how long they are asking to
delay,” he said.  The rupee fell to a record low of 68.845 per dollar last
week as fund outflows from the local financial market left the
currency vulnerable to an unprecedented current-account deficit.
The currency has weakened 19 percent so far this year, according
to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. India was the
biggest buyer of Indonesian coal last year after  China .  Indian importers are seeking to buy the fuel with a heating
value of 5,500 kilocalories a kilogram on a net as-received
basis at $79 to $80 a ton while Indonesian suppliers are
offering at $85 a ton, cost and freight basis, said Ashok Mitra,
the chief financial officer of PT Kaltim Prima Coal, a unit of
Indonesia’s largest coal producer, PT  Bumi Resources. (BUMI)  Indonesian
sellers are offering coal with a heating value of 3,600
kilocalories a kilogram at $37 to $38 a ton while Indian buyers
are bidding at around $35 a ton, Mitra said.  “Indian buyers want to cover any increase in costs because
of rupee depreciation through a reduction in price from the coal
producers,” Mitra said at the conference. “There won’t be any
default. They have to take the cargo, but the issue will be on
the price.”  Deferral requests from Indian buyers are unlikely to cut
purchases because of demand for electricity and lack of local
coal supply, Mitra said.  India  increased coal imports by 50 percent in July,
receiving 13.3 million tons of steam coal and 3.12 million of
the coking variety, according to Interocean, a New Delhi-based
shipper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  